United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-first session
28th plenary meeting
Friday, 14 October 2016, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/71/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Thomson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Fiji)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. Girma 
Asmerom Tesfay, Permanent Representative of 
Eritrea to the United Nations
The  President:  It  is  my  sad  duty  to  pay  tribute 
to  the  memory  of  the  late  Permanent  Representative 
of  Eritrea  to  the  United  Nations,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Girma  Asmerom  Tesfay,  who  passed  away  on 
Wednesday,  5  October.  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I would like to request the representative of 
Eritrea, who is present here, to convey our condolences 
to the Government and the people of Eritrea and to the 
bereaved family of His Excellency Mr. Girma Asmerom 
Tesfay. Allow me to say a few remarks.
This  morning  we  are  honouring  the  memory  of 
our  dear  friend  and  colleague,  Ambassador  Girma 
Asmerom  Tesfay  of  Eritrea.  Many  here  today  knew 
Ambassador  Tesfay  personally,  and  the  news  of  his 
sudden death has been met with deep sadness. In life, 
Ambassador Tesfay made a significant contribution to 
the United Nations, and many colleagues recall fondly 
his  enthusiastic  participation,  on  behalf  of  his  nation, 
at  the  signing  ceremony  for  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change here in this very Hall in April.
Beyond  the  United  Nations,  Ambassador  Tesfay 
was  a  distinguished  diplomat  who  served  his  country 
in  a  wide  range  of  places,  including  as  Permanent 
Representative  to  the  African  Union  and  Ambassador 
to  Belgium,  Canada,  Ethiopia,  the  European  Union, 
South  Africa  and  the  United  States.  He  was  a  calm, 
eloquent and charismatic individual and an extremely 
accomplished athlete.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I would like to 
extend to Ambassador Tesfay’s family and loved ones, 
and to the Government and the people of Eritrea, our 
heartfelt condolences. If I may also add a personal note 
– like many here today, I have lost a dear friend with his 
passing. May Girma’s soul rest in peace.
I  now  invite  representatives  to  stand  and  observe 
a  minute  of  silence  in  tribute  to  the  memory  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Girma Asmerom Tesfay.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
The President: I now give the floor to the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
join 
The  Secretary-General:  I 
the  General 
Assembly in conveying my deep sorrow at the loss of 
His Excellency Mr. Girma Asmerom Tesfay, who passed 
away  on  5  October  in  New  York.  I  express  my  deep 
personal condolences, as well as the condolences of the 
United Nations system, to his family, to His Excellency 
Mr.  Isaias  Afwerki,  President  of  the  State  of  Eritrea, 
and to the Eritrean people.
Ambassador  Girma  presented  his  credentials  as 
Permanent Representative of the State of Eritrea to the 
United  Nations  on  23  April  2014.  He  was  one  of  his 
country’s  highest-ranking  diplomats.  Over  the  course 
of his career, he served as Ambassador to the African 
Union, 
the  European  Union,  Luxembourg,  South 
Africa and the United States. A masterful diplomat and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
16-32961 (E)
*1632961*
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
negotiator,  he  showed  real  dedication  to  intensifying 
the engagement of the United Nations with his country, 
which  resulted  in  greater  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations Secretariat, United Nations funds and 
programmes and the authorities in Eritrea.
Throughout  his  life,  he  was  a  great  promoter  of 
multilateralism.  I  very  much  appreciated  his  insights 
and  discussions  with  me  and  my  colleagues  in  the 
broader  United  Nations  system.  His  dedication  to 
his  country  was  always  apparent  but  perhaps,  most 
movingly, was symbolized by his unselfish work until 
the very last day of his life.
Once  again,  on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations,  I 
express  our  sadness  as  well  as  our  commitment  to 
continue working with the Government and the people 
of Eritrea to advance together across all three pillars of 
our work – peace, development and human rights.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Niger, who will speak on behalf of the Group of African 
States.
Mr. Wafy (Niger): It is with a very deep sense of 
bereavement  that  I  stand  here  today  on  behalf  of  my 
colleagues of the African Group to say a few words on 
the very painful loss we all suffered when Ambassador 
Girma  left  us.  It  is  so  difficult  to  accept  and  come 
to  terms  with  the  fact  that  such  a  vivacious  person 
would leave us without warning, although some of us, 
his friends, could see that lately he was somehow not 
exactly the old Girma we knew. Nevertheless, we had 
hoped that he would rediscover his zest for life.
There was one aspect to him that was always there 
and  never  changed  despite  his  condition  –  his  total 
dedication  to  his  work  and  to  defending  the  interests 
of his country. Ambassador Girma was a very famous 
soccer star when he was young. He subsequently became 
a  freedom  fighter,  soon  after  finishing  his  graduate 
studies here in the United States. He was a student here 
in New York and he passed away in New York.
The African Group misses Ambassador Girma very 
much. All of us, including myself, considered Girma as 
a  friend,  with  whom  we  laughed  and  with  whom  we 
carried  out  many  important  tasks.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  the  Africa  Group  lost  one  of  its  most  dedicated 
diplomats, in whom we had great confidence for doing 
what  is  best  for  the  Africa  Group  and  Africa.  I  also 
believe that the United Nations has lost a good man, a 
person who knew the value of the Organization.
In the light of the foregoing, we consider the passing 
of  Girma  to  be  a  great  loss  for  the  United  Nations.  I 
would like, on behalf of the African Group and on my 
own  behalf,  to  express  our  most  sincere  condolences 
to  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Eritrea  and  to 
Girma’s family. May his soul rest in perfect peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  It  is  with  great  sadness 
that  we  learned  of  the  untimely  passing  of  our  dear 
colleague and friend, the Permanent Representative of 
Eritrea, Mr. Girma Asmerom Tesfay. On behalf of the 
members  of  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States,  I 
would  like  to  express  our  deepest  condolences  to  the 
family and friends of Ambassador Tesfay as well as to 
the Government and the people of Eritrea.
Ambassador  Girma  was  a  devoted  professional,  a 
seasoned and widely respected diplomat who served his 
country for decades and a distinguished member of the 
diplomatic community at the United Nations. Over the 
course of his career, he spared no effort in representing 
his nation in a time of dramatic political transformation 
for Eritrea and the region. He leaves behind a legacy of 
diplomatic service as the Ambassador of Eritrea to the 
European Union, the African Union, the United States, 
Canada and the Republic of South Africa, his efforts to 
contribute to the respect of international law, peace and 
justice will be cherished.
Ambassador  Tesfay  successfully  served  as  a 
Vice-President of the General Assembly and, on behalf 
of the African Group, led negotiations on the issue of 
addressing large movements of refugees and migrants. 
We also remember him as a great soccer player at home 
and at the United Nations diplomatic tournaments.
Ambassador  Tesfay’s  untimely  death 
is  an 
irreparable  loss  for  his  country.  Among  us,  his 
friends and colleagues, he will be greatly missed and 
dearly remembered.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, who will speak on behalf of the 
Group of Western European and other States.
2/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
Mr.  Hickey  (United  Kingdom):  On  behalf  of  the 
Group of Western European and other States, it is with 
great  sadness  that  I  address  the  General  Assembly  as 
we gather to remember Ambassador Girma Asmerom 
Tesfay, Permanent Representative of Eritrea. As others 
have  said  before,  our  thoughts  are  with  Ambassador 
Girma’s  family  as  well  as  with  the  Government  and 
the people of Eritrea. His passing is a sad loss to our 
community here in New York and to those of us who 
knew  Ambassador  Girma.  We  will  recall  the  warmth 
and  skill  with  which  he  led  the  Mission  of  Eritrea  at 
the  United  Nations.  Ambassador  Girma’s  sad  death 
represents the personal loss of a friend, colleague and 
leader, but it is also a deep loss for Eritrea.
Many people here might have served with him in 
Addis  Ababa,  where  he  was  Eritrea’s  Ambassador  to 
the African Union and also to Ethiopia, or in Brussels, 
where  he  served  as  Ambassador  to  the  European 
Union. Some may know him from when he served as 
Ambassador  to  the  United  States  and  Canada  or  as 
Ambassador to South Africa. There are few of us here 
today with such an impressive résumé, and our respect 
for Ambassador Girma’s career and work is as deep as 
our sadness in meeting here to mark his loss.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Kuwait, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait):  On  5  October,  we  sadly 
learned  of  the  passing  of  one  of  our  dear  colleagues, 
Ambassador  Girma  Asmerom  Tesfay  of  the  State  of 
Eritrea.  On  behalf  of  the  Asia-Pacific  Group  at  the 
United  Nations,  I  would  like  to  extend  to  the  people 
and the Government of Eritrea, as well as to the family 
of  Ambassador  Tesfay,  our  heartfelt  condolences  and 
deepest sympathies on his untimely passing.
As  one  of  our  colleagues,  Ambassador  Tesfay 
came  with  an  impressive  background  and  a  wealth 
of  experience  from  his  many  years  of  diplomacy.  His 
experience  working  as  the  Ambassador  of  Eritrea  to 
the European Union and the African Union showed his 
dedication to diplomacy and multilateralism. He fought 
for his nation’s freedom and he was incredibly devoted 
to  the  success  of  his  country.  On  behalf  of  the  Asia-
Pacific Group, let me once again convey my sincerest 
condolences to Ambassador Tesfay’s family and to the 
Government and the people of Eritrea.
We, the Asia-Pacific Group, would like to express 
our  support  and  solidarity  with  the  members  of  the 
Permanent Mission of Eritrea as they overcome the great 
loss of their colleague and ambassador. Throughout the 
halls of the United Nations he will be remembered as a 
remarkable diplomat and true friend who will be dearly 
missed. May God rest his soul in eternal peace.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the host country.
Mr.  McCulley  (United  States  of  America):  I 
have  the  honour  today  of  speaking  on  behalf  of  the 
Government of the United States, the country that has 
the  privilege  of  hosting  the  United  Nations.  I  offer 
our  deepest  condolences  to  the  people  of  Eritrea,  and 
particularly  to  the  family  and  friends  of  Ambassador 
Girma Asmerom Tesfay.
The diplomatic life takes one far from home, often 
for years or even decades at a time. Ambassador Girma 
served his people as Ambassador to the United States 
from 2001 to 2006, and since 2014 as their representative 
to the United Nations. As others have noted, he has also 
served  as  Ambassador  to  the  African  Union  and  the 
European Union. He leaves behind friends, family and 
the Mission he led. Our thoughts and prayers are with 
his family and friends.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Eritrea.
Mr.  Gebreab  (Eritrea):  Allow  me  first  to  extend 
the deep appreciation of the people and the Government 
of Eritrea to you, Mr. President, for having organized 
this important event to pay tribute to the memory of one 
of Eritrea’s finest sons, Ambassador Girma Asmerom 
Tesfay, who passed away last week after battling cancer 
for several months. I would like to thank everyone who 
took the floor to honour and remember a colleague and 
friend who was close to many in this Hall.
We  are  very  grateful  and  touched  by  everyone’s 
presence  here  today  at  the  General  Assembly  to  pay 
homage  to  Girma  Asmerom  Tesfay.  We  welcome  the 
words of sympathy and support that have been expressed 
in person or through phone calls, in visits to our Mission 
to sign the book of condolences, and the sending of cards 
and messages via social media. It is indeed heartening 
and, we believe, befitting a person who never failed to 
display warmth and friendship in his interactions with 
members of the United Nations family.
For  his  entire  adult  life,  Ambassador  Girma  was 
a  dedicated,  tireless,  passionate  and  accomplished 
fighter for the rights of the Eritrean people. Beginning 
16-32961
3/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
in his student days here in the United States, through 
his years as a freedom fighter and upon his last living 
breath  as  Eritrea’s  Permanent  Representative  to  the 
United  Nations,  Girma  had  an  unwavering  faith  in 
the  Eritrean  people  and  country,  which  he  served 
with  distinction.  He  was  a  champion,  not  only  of  the 
cause of Eritrea, but for fairness and justice for all. His 
sharp  mind,  quick  wit,  diplomatic  savvy  and  selfless 
service were an invaluable contribution that will fondly 
be remembered.
In his diplomatic work at the United Nations, Girma 
interacted with all members, including with members 
of delegations with which he did not agree. He did not 
see barriers; rather he saw opportunities to engage, and 
engage  he  did  with  all  to  promote  an  inclusive  peace 
for  his  country  and  the  region.  He  was  relentless  in 
his  endeavours  and  in  articulating  the  positions  and 
policies  of  his  Government.  He  stressed  the  need  for 
fairness and justice and for the equality of States and 
fought against the double-standard in all its forms.
In  all  his  conversations,  Girma  kept  in  mind  the 
importance  of  respecting  the  sovereignty  of  nations, 
the  need  to  lift  unjustified  sanctions  on  developing 
countries  and  the  non-politicization  of  human  rights. 
He  furthered  cooperation  among  Member  States  and 
the United Nations system to promote these objectives. 
All  the  accolades  and  eulogies  that  have  come  from 
his friends and colleagues portray a masterful person 
with  exceptional  qualities  of  compassion,  valour, 
selflessness,  personal 
integrity,  hard  work  and 
extraordinary resilience. Yet these descriptions, though 
apt, do not convey the full stature of Ambassador Girma.
His exceptional resilience is perhaps better captured 
in the dignified manner with which he fought the cruel 
illness  that  afflicted  him  over  the  past  six  months. 
Girma never voiced a single complaint, nor did he take 
a day off from his duties, in spite of his debilitating and 
malignant  disease.  Indeed,  one  of  his  last  diplomatic 
functions was — in the middle of his treatment — to 
communicate from Asmara with and to respond to the 
Monitoring  Group  on  Somalia  and  Eritrea  again  in 
defence against unjustified accusations lodged against 
his nation.
Ambassador  Girma  was  a  national  hero  who 
devoted 45 years of his life to defending freedom and 
national dignity. His was a life well lived. His passing 
is  of  course  a  great  and  permanent  loss  for  Eritrea. 
For me personally, he was a comrade in arms, a close 
friend and an associate. We worked together with the 
Eritreans for Liberation in North America association 
in  the  United  States  and  joined  the  Eritrean  People’s 
Liberation  Front,  the  liberation  movement  that  led 
Eritrea’s  war  of  independence,  on  the  very  same  day. 
During the struggle for independence, we worked in the 
same department.
I only wish he had lived to see the redress of the 
injustices  directed  against  his  country,  injustices 
he  fought  against  with  utter  conviction,  boundless 
determination and consummate confidence but always 
with  an  unfailing  sense  of  humour.  The  struggle 
continues, and, as we in Eritrea say, “The victory of the 
people is assured”.
The President: If the Assembly would permit me, 
I would like to make a short statement at this juncture 
to  the  representative  of  Eritrea.  Having  been  lost  in 
thought on the passing of our friend, I failed to thank 
him for his very moving statement. I wish to thank him 
for it now.
Agenda items 62 and 12
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and international 
support
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/71/189 and 
A/71/203)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/71/211)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The  President:  Throughout  this  year’s  Africa 
Week, we have joined in celebrating Africa’s progress 
in  sustainable  development,  human  rights  and  the 
promotion  of  sustainable  peace  and  security  on  the 
continent. We have also discussed how the international 
community can help to address persistent challenges so 
that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 
Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  along  with  the  African  Union 
Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want, can all be realized. 
4/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
Fundamental to these discussions has been a focus on 
stronger strategic and operational partnerships. In this 
context, it is imperative that we consider the pre-eminent 
and  long-standing  framework  for  development  in 
Africa, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD).
As  a  comprehensive,  integrated  and  strategic 
framework  for  socioeconomic  development  in  Africa, 
NEPAD aims to promote Africa-wide policies for growth 
by addressing priority areas, including macroeconomic 
policy, conflict prevention and resolution, the promotion 
of  democracy  and  human  rights,  infrastructure  and 
agricultural  development,  strengthening  regulatory 
frameworks,  the  provision  of  education  and  training, 
and  empowering  women  and  girls.  The  critical  need 
for all stakeholders to take a coordinated approach to 
sustainable development is paramount.
I  commend  the  African  Union’s  decision  to  align 
its  Agenda  2063  with  the  2030  Agenda.  The  efforts 
of  so  many  African  countries  to  begin  structuring 
their  national  development  frameworks  around  the 
provisions of the 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and 
the Agenda 2063 deserve particular commendation. In 
this  regard,  it  is  also  encouraging  that,  as  part  of  the 
ongoing efforts to implement the objectives of NEPAD 
within  Africa,  the  NEPAD  agency  has  been  tasked 
with the fast-tracking implementation and monitoring 
of  major  Africa-wide  development  programmes  and 
frameworks,  including  the  Agenda  2063  and  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
strong,  unfavourable  global 
In the 15 years since the adoption of NEPAD, Africa 
has  experienced  unprecedented  economic  growth  and 
progress in building major infrastructure, strengthening 
regional and national health systems, improving gender 
mainstreaming and working towards climate mitigation 
and  adaptation  in  agriculture.  While  Africa’s  growth 
remains 
economic 
conditions,  including  in  trade  and  financing,  volatile 
commodity  prices,  limited  economic  diversification 
and  high  levels  of  debt  risk  undermining  hard-fought 
development  gains.  Tackling  these  challenges  will 
require  the  sustained  efforts  of  African  countries 
and  development  partners  alike,  including  the  United 
Nations  system,  to  strengthen  capacity-building  and 
increase investment in infrastructure, health services, 
regulatory reform, agricultural productivity and access 
to education.
The  efforts  by  African  countries  to  pursue  a 
continental free trade area to strengthen intra-African 
trade and economic integration is well worth pursuing. 
So  too  is  enhanced  international  support  to  African 
countries for debt relief and sustainability, foreign direct 
investment and, to combat illicit capital flows, access to 
international  markets  and  technology  transfer.  South-
South cooperation, as a complement to North-South and 
triangular cooperation, also remains an important tool 
for  boosting  economic  growth  and  integration  among 
African countries and should be enhanced.
One  of  the  primary  objectives  of  NEPAD  is  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls  so  that  their  full 
potential in political and economic life may be unlocked. 
In this regard, I commend the African Union’s decision 
to  declare  2015  the  Year  of  Women’s  Empowerment 
and Development and 2016 the African Year of Human 
Rights with Particular Focus on the Rights of Women. 
However, despite these and other initiatives, numerous 
challenges continue to hinder progress towards gender 
equality and women’s empowerment in Africa, which 
is in turn impeding overall development and economic 
outcomes. In sub-Saharan Africa, gender inequality is 
estimated  to  be  costing  $95  billion  per  year.  Specific 
that  strengthen  gender  equality  and 
programmes 
women’s  empowerment,  promote 
to 
education and training and pursue the full realization of 
their rights should therefore be given priority as part of 
comprehensive efforts to drive sustainable development.
The  United  Nations  has  been  a  steadfast  partner 
in  Africa’s  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  peace  and 
development.  I  congratulate  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser  on  Africa  for  its  work  in  coordinating 
United  Nations  system-wide  support  for  NEPAD 
and  the  broader  2030  Agenda.  Its  work  includes 
raising  awareness  of  Africa’s  development  needs  and 
advocating  for  stronger  partnerships  to  complement 
national  and  regional  development  efforts,  including 
with civil society and the private sector.
their  access 
The  urgent  need  to  strengthen  global  efforts  to 
implement the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda 
is  why  we  have  made  the  principal  objective  of  the 
seventy-first session of the General Assembly the drive 
for a universal push in implementing all 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals. Through our SDG Implementation 
Strategy,  we  will  be  pushing  implementation  by 
providing 
to  previously 
mandated  SDG  events  and  processes,  including  the 
United Nations Conference on Housing and Sustainable 
engagement 
sustained 
16-32961
5/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
Urban  Development,  in  Quito  next  week,  for  which  I 
leave tomorrow; the twenty-second Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Marrakech,  which  I  will  be 
attending  in  November;  and,  of  course,  the  High-
Level  United  Nations  Conference  to  Support  the 
Implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14 
in New York, in the first week of June 2017. We will 
be supporting existing efforts within and outside of the 
United Nations system to drive strategic partnerships, a 
track which complements NEPAD’s overarching goals 
and framework.
in  key  areas, 
Finally,  we  will  be  backing  a  series  of  signature 
events  that  will  lay  the  foundation  for  sustained 
implementation 
including  global 
awareness  of  the  SDGs,  particularly  among  young 
people,  which  will  help  to  promote  the  development 
and engagement of young people, which in Africa will 
help to harness the demographic dividend. I will also 
be  pushing  opportunities  to  secure  better  financing 
for  sustainable  development,  promote  sustainable 
peace,  empower  women  and  girls,  tackle  poverty 
and  inequality  and  advance  protection  of  our  oceans, 
environment and planet.
like 
this  opportunity 
to  address  our  global  efforts  to  combat  malaria, 
particularly in Africa. In the five years since the start 
of the Global Decade to Roll Back Malaria, the World 
Health  Organization  estimates  that  up  to  3.2  billion 
people — nearly half of the world’s population — remain 
at  risk  of  contracting  malaria.  As  it  is  a  preventable 
and treatable mosquito-borne disease, it is critical that 
we intensify our efforts to combat it. In this regard, I 
commend the decision of African countries to extend, 
from  2016  to  2020,  the  African  Union  Road  Map  on 
Shared Responsibility and Global Solidarity for AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria Response in Africa.
I  would  also 
take 
to 
As we embark upon a new and ambitious chapter of 
implementing the sustainable development framework, 
let  us  all  join  forces  to  reinvigorate  our  commitment 
to  real  partnerships  that  will  fully  realize  the  goals 
of  NEPAD  in  Africa,  eradicate  malaria  once  and  for 
all, and achieve each and every one of the Sustainable 
Development Goals by the year 2030.
Mr. Plasai (Thailand): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and would like 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  the 
items we are discussing today (A/71/189, A/71/203 and 
A/71/211).
First  of  all,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  would 
like to commend African leaders for their remarkable 
efforts  and  enduring  commitment  in  the  pursuit  of 
Africa’s  regional  development.  The  African  Union’s 
Agenda  2063  and  its  first  10-year  implementation 
plan  demonstrate  the  region’s  shared  vision  for  peace 
and  development  and  the  actions  it  is  taking  towards 
fulfilling that vision.
in 
the 
international  community 
to  achieving  sustainable  development 
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  in  2015  has  underscored  the  shared 
commitment  of 
to 
working  tirelessly  to  eradicate  poverty  in  all  its 
forms  and  dimensions,  including  extreme  poverty, 
and 
its 
three  dimensions,  namely,  economic,  social  and 
environmental,  in  a  balanced  and  integrated  manner. 
While  African  countries  continue  to  implement  their 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development priorities in 
the context of Agenda 2063, the Group has recognized 
the  complementarities  between  Agenda  2063  and 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  In 
this  regard,  it  is  crucial  that  we  continue  to  mobilize 
international  support  for  the  implementation  of  those 
Agendas in order to achieve greater synergies between 
the regional and international development frameworks.
time  of  unfavourable  global  economic 
conditions  and  increasing  environmental  challenges, 
African  countries  are  among 
the  most  severely 
affected.  Unless  they  have  access  to  adequate  and 
predictable resources for development, their attempts to 
implement the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
particularly to address the issues of poverty and hunger, 
will continue to be undermined. In this regard, there is 
a need for a revitalized global partnership for Africa if 
we are to mobilize the means and resources to support 
the implementation of SDGs in the region, including but 
not limited to financing, trade, debt relief and transfer 
of environmentally sound technologies.
In  a 
The  Group  re-emphasizes  the  critical  role  of 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  and  foreign 
direct  investment  (FDI),  which  remain  major  sources 
of  financing  and  development  in  Africa.  The  Group 
is deeply concerned about the fact that both ODA and 
FDI to Africa have declined in recent years. The Group 
therefore would like to reiterate that the fulfilment of 
our ODA commitments remains crucial, including the 
6/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
commitment  by  many  developed  countries  to  achieve 
directed the ODA target of 0.7 per cent of gross national 
income to developing countries and directed the ODA 
target of 0.15 to 0.20 per cent of gross national income 
to  the  least  developed  countries.  We  urge  those  who 
have not fulfilled their commitments to step up efforts 
towards the ODA targets.
It  is  highly  commendable  that  Africa’s  ratio  of 
public  debt  to  gross  domestic  product  is  lower  today 
than  it  has  been  in  decades.  The  Group  believes  that 
Africa’s  global  development  partners  could  provide 
the  assistance  needed  by  African  countries  to  attain 
long-term  debt  sustainability.  The  Group  would  like 
to  reiterate  that  North-South  cooperation  still  lies  at 
the core of the global partnership that drives Africa’s 
development,  but  it  is  also  complemented  by  South-
South cooperation and triangular cooperation.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  concerned  at 
Africa’s  disproportionately  low  share  in  the  volume 
of  international  trade,  which  stands  at  approximately 
3.3 per cent. We reiterate the need for all countries and 
relevant  multilateral  institutions  to  continue  to  make 
efforts  to  enhance  coherence  in  their  trade  policies 
towards African countries and to strengthen the efforts 
made  to  fully  integrate  African  countries  into  the 
international  trading  system.  It  is  also  necessary  to 
build their capacity to compete through such initiatives 
as  Aid  for  Trade  and  assistance  for  addressing  the 
adjustment challenges posed by trade liberalization.
has 
had 
little 
Africa 
experience  with 
industrialization,  with  the  result  that  it  is  facing 
numerous  challenges  in  implementing  the  structural 
changes  needed  to  revive  the  economy.  Despite  the 
fact  that  the  General  Assembly  adopted  the  First  and 
Second Industrial Development Decades for Africa, for 
the periods from 1980 to 1989 and from 1991 to 2000, 
respectively, to support Africa’s efforts to overcome the 
challenges  of  industrialization,  limited  progress  was 
made  due  to  the  lack  of  resources  and  capacities  and 
for  geostrategic  reasons.  The  Group  of  77  and  China 
therefore  strongly  supports  the  General  Assembly’s 
recent  adoption  of  the  Third  Industrial  Development 
Decade  for  Africa  for  the  period  2016-2025,  which 
could address the ways and means to ensure inclusive 
and  sustainable  industrialization  as  an  engine  for 
growth and provide another form of strategic leverage 
in support of the efforts of African countries.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  welcomes  the  Group 
of  20  (G-20)  Action  Plan  on  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and 
the  G-20  Initiative 
on  Supporting  Industrialization  in  Africa  and  Least 
Developed  Countries,  launched  at  the  eleventh  G-20 
summit, held in Hangzhou, China, on 4 and 5 September, 
and looks forward to their implementation.
(spoke in French)
The Group of 77 and China welcomed the decision 
of the African Union to proclaim this year the African 
Year  of  Human  Rights  with  Particular  Focus  on  the 
Rights  of  Women.  This  underscores  the  African 
Union’s acknowledgment of the importance of women 
and girls and of human development in general as the 
pillar  and  main  vectors  for  the  implementation  of  its 
Agenda  2063.  It  also  corresponds  to  SDG  5,  which 
emphasizes  the  essential  role  of  women  in  the  path 
towards sustainable development.
The Group of 77 and China recognizes the positive 
trends towards a lasting peace in Africa and also wishes 
to  emphasize  the  need  to  create  conditions  conducive 
to  sustainable  peace.  In  this  regard,  there  is  always 
an  urgent  need  to  develop  and  strengthen  human  and 
institutional capacity, especially in countries emerging 
from conflict.
Besides the traditional threats to peace and security 
in  Africa,  newly  emerging  challenges  —  particularly 
that  of  terrorism  —  require  continued  international 
support. The Group of 77 and China therefore stresses 
the  need  for  the  United  Nations  system  to  support 
regional and subregional African organizations in their 
implementation  of  action  plans  against  terrorism.  On 
this issue, we are convinced of the crucial importance 
of the commitment of Member States to support African 
countries in achieving the objective of an Africa free of 
conflicts and to ending all wars in Africa by 2020.
Finally, the Group of 77 and China welcomes the 
role  of  the  international  community  in  the  progress 
made  in  the  fight  against  and  prevention  of  malaria. 
According to the World Health Organization 2015 World 
Malaria Report, the rate of incidence of malaria cases 
dropped  by  42  per  cent  in  Africa  between  2000  and 
2015. However, the majority of global malaria cases are 
in Africa. We welcome the World Health Organization 
Global  Technical  Strategy  for  Malaria  2016–2030  as 
a  framework  for  continuing  global  efforts  against  the 
disease. We believe that increased international support 
16-32961
7/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
for  the  implementation  of  this  framework  will  enable 
Africa to achieve its goals of eliminating malaria.
including  the  African  passport  and  free  movement 
of peoples.
We  also  wish  to  reiterate  the  need  for  the  United 
Nations system to provide assistance in the improvement 
of  health-care  systems  and  to  ensure  equal  access  to 
health care. This is because the health and well-being 
of  the  population  are  at  the  heart  of  inclusive  and 
sustainable development.
Mr. Wafy (Niger): I have the honour to address the 
General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States in today’s important debate on the agenda items 
related to Africa. At the outset, I would like to thank 
you, Mr. President, for convening this important debate 
and for your opening remarks.
fourteenth 
consolidated 
reports 
submitted  under 
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  analytical  and 
well-documented 
these 
agenda items, namely, the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development: 
progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support 
(A/71/189), the causes of conflict and the promotion of 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa 
(A/71/211),  and  the  biennial  report  on  the  review  of 
the implementation of the commitments made towards 
Africa’s  development  (A/71/203).  I  also  commend 
the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  under 
the  leadership  of  Under-Secretary-General  Maged 
Abdelaziz, for preparing these reports.
Over the past year, African countries continued to 
make progress on the priority areas set forth in the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  This  is  most 
evident  in  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  for 
Infrastructure Development in Africa. Improvement in 
project  preparation  and  leveraging  finance,  including 
from  the  private  sector  and  multilateral  development 
banks,  particularly  the  African  Development  Bank, 
have  advanced  the  implementation  of  many  of  the 
projects approved in the 2014 Dakar Financing Summit 
for  Africa’s  Infrastructure.  The  progress  made  on 
infrastructure development has contributed to boosting 
connectivity  and  enhancing 
integration, 
thereby  building  on  the  momentum  created  by  the 
establishment  of  the  Tripartite  Free  Trade  Area  by 
States members of the Common Market for Eastern and 
Southern Africa, the East African Community and the 
Southern  African  Development  Community,  and  on 
the launch of the flagship projects in the First 10-Year 
Implementation Plan (2014-2023), under Agenda 2063, 
regional 
sectors, 
Similarly,  other  priority 
including 
agriculture, food security, education, training and health 
have  seen  varying  degrees  of  progress.  In  particular, 
with  respect  to  agricultural  development,  50  African 
countries  are  now  engaged  in  the  implementation  of 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme,  with  12  countries  so  far  surpassing  the 
target of allocating 10 per cent of their national budgets 
to  agricultural  development.  However,  these  efforts 
are taking place despite the precariousness of current 
global  economic  conditions.  The  subdued  demand 
for  raw  commodities,  particularly  from  emerging 
economies,  along  with  falling  oil  and  other  primary-
commodity  prices,  has  had  a  profoundly  negative 
impact on Africa’s total exports, which have declined 
by  almost  30  per  cent.  In  addition,  there  has  been  a 
decline of 7 per cent in foreign direct investment flows, 
thus affecting the growth rates and social expenditures 
of most African countries.
The  foregoing  conditions  speak  to  the  urgency 
of  making  progress  on  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  and  its  First  10-Year 
Implementation Plan (2014-2023). Indeed, the global and 
continental agendas place strong emphasis on regional 
integration,  structural  economic  transformation  and 
enhancing  productive  capacity,  industrialization  and 
agribusiness  in  order  to  further  expand  opportunities 
for  economic  participation,  including  for  women  and 
young people, and to create an enabling environment for 
poverty eradication and socioeconomic transformation.
In that regard, Africa attaches great importance to 
promoting  synergies,  building  complementarities  and 
ensuring a coherent and integrated implementation of 
the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063,  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
That  is  why  Africa  has  embarked  on  an  important 
process  to  incorporate  the  goals  and  targets  of  those 
global  and  continental  frameworks  to  national  and 
regional development plans.
In  addition,  a  solid  structure  for  rigorous  follow-
up and review at the national, regional and continental 
levels was established. This structure recognized both 
the  importance  of  multi-stakeholder  dialogue  at  the 
local  and  national  levels  and  the  critical  role  of  the 
8/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
Regional  Economic  Communities  in  advancing  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063, 
including  by  promoting  peer  learning  and  sharing 
experiences. International support for these endeavours 
is more urgent than ever, particularly for strengthening 
the  capacities  of  data  systems  to  track  progress  and 
identify  implementation  gaps.  The  African  Group 
believes that the United Nations monitoring mechanism 
can  provide  important  input  to  this  structure  as  well 
as to the follow-up and review structures at the global 
level,  including  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development.
Our greatest challenge in achieving a people-centred 
vision  of  development  agendas  and  realizing  their 
promise of leaving no one behind is the mobilization of 
adequate means for their implementation. A revitalized 
global  partnership  for  development  is  therefore  an 
indispensable  ingredient  to  success.  In  this  regard,  I 
wish to commend the Office of the Special Adviser on 
Africa for his analytical and advocacy work to promote 
Africa’s development priorities and for making effective 
partnerships the thematic focus of Africa Week 2016.
Indeed,  Africa’s 
strategic  partnerships  with 
traditional,  new  and  emerging  partners  and  with  the 
United Nations system must be streamlined and adjusted 
to avoid the shortcomings of the implementation of the 
Millennium Development Goals and support the broader 
vision of the 2030 Agenda. These partnerships must be 
aligned  to  Africa’s  development  priorities  identified 
in  the  African  Union  Agenda  2063  and  address  the 
gap  in  the  implementation  of  commitments  made 
towards Africa’s development. The biennial report on 
the review of the implementation of the commitments 
made  towards  Africa’s  development  gives  us  a  clear 
picture of the implementation gap that is threatening the 
fulfilment  of  the  commitments  pertaining  to  the  four 
thematic  topics,  namely,  infrastructure  development, 
trade,  a  conflict-free  Africa,  and  gender  equality  and 
women’s empowerment.
While  recognizing  the  efforts  of  the  African 
countries  and  their  development  partners  in  fulfilling 
their  commitments  in  those  thematic  areas,  much 
more  needs  to  be  done  on  the  basis  of  the  principles 
of  partnership  and  mutual  accountability.  Official 
development assistance and other commitments in the 
areas of finance, technology transfer, capacity-building 
and market access must be fulfilled in a timely manner. 
Commitments  made  to  the  Green  Climate  Fund  must 
also be honoured so as to help African countries build 
resilience  in  the  face  of  the  devastating  effects  of 
climate change.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General entitled, “Causes of conflict and the 
promotion of durable peace and sustainable development 
in  Africa”,  which  provides  a  succinct  overview  of 
recent  major  peace  and  security  developments  on  the 
continent, and which highlights, in particular, the place 
of women’s human rights in peace and security in Africa. 
The  African  Group  takes  note,  with  appreciation,  of 
the progress made in preventing and resolving conflict 
in  Africa  and  in  building  and  consolidating  peace  in 
countries  emerging  from  conflict,  which  collectively 
support  achieving  the  goals  set  forth  in  the  African 
initiative  Silencing  the  Guns,  Owning  the  Future  by 
2020.
In  particular,  Africa  has  also  made  significant 
progress  in  strengthening  its  institutional  capacity, 
including  its  ability  to  undertake  peace  efforts  and 
promote  good  governance,  including  through  the 
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism.  The  decision  of 
African  leaders  at  the  twenty-seventh  African  Union 
(AU) Summit, held in Kigali, to set up an import levy 
to help fund the budget of the African Union, including 
25  per  cent  of  the  budget  of  its  peace  and  security 
activities,  is  a  historic  step  towards  full  self-reliance 
and a sign of Africa’s strong commitment to realizing 
the Africa We Want as detailed in the Agenda 2063. The 
revitalization  of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
will provide a further boost to African efforts to prevent 
conflict through addressing the root causes and drivers 
of conflict.
At the same time, Africa continues to face serious 
challenges to its peace and security, including electoral 
violence, social and economic inequality and exclusion, 
especially of women and young people, and the rise of 
violent  extremism  and  terrorism.  African  countries 
have taken numerous steps to address these challenges 
at national and regional levels, including, in the case of 
terrorism, the deployment of the African Union Mission 
in Somalia and the Multinational Joint Task Force, to 
combat Al-Shabaab and Boko Haram, respectively.
To  complement  and  strengthen  African  efforts 
to  address  challenges  to  the  continent’s  peace  and 
security,  it  is  critical  that  Africa’s  partners  enhance 
their support for African peace and security activities 
and help build the continent’s own capacity to prevent 
and  resolve  conflict  through  increased  assistance  for 
16-32961
9/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
the  African  Peace  and  Security  Architecture  and  the 
African Governance Architecture.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  the  AU’s  Agenda  2063  provide  us  with  unique 
and  complementary  blueprints  to  tackle  conflicts 
in  a  holistic  manner  by  integrating  development, 
peace,  security  and  human  rights  into  one  actionable 
framework.  No  country  or  organization  can  hope  to 
meet  these  challenges  alone.  In  recognition  of  this 
fact,  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  have 
sought to strengthen their cooperation across the areas 
of peace, security, human rights and development. That 
is  reflected  in  the  Framework  for  a  Renewed  United 
Nations/AU  Partnership  on  Africa’s  Integration  and 
Development Agendas 2017-2027, adopted at the twenty-
fifth  African  Union  summit,  held  in  Johannesburg  in 
June  2015,  and  in  the  preparation  of  the  Joint  United 
Nations-AU Framework for an Enhanced Partnership in 
Peace and Security.
Furthermore,  we  must  also  strive  to  enhance 
the  collaboration  between  the  United  Nations  and 
Africa 
in  every  area  of  conflict-prevention  and 
resolution,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding  and  post-
conflict  reconstruction  and  development,  as  well  as 
the promotion of good governance, the rule of law and 
respect for human rights. In that regard, we should draw 
on  the  recommendations  of  the  major  United  Nations 
reviews undertaken in 2015 of its peace operations and 
peacebuilding  architecture  and  of  the  implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  including 
the  need  for  fostering  closer  and  more  effective 
partnerships  with  regional  organizations,  particularly 
the African Union.
Lastly,  with  regard 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
to  making  progress  on 
implementing  the  aims  of  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa, the African Group welcomes the commitment 
shown by world leaders under Sustainable Development 
Goal  3  to  continue  to  work  to  eradicate  malaria  and 
other diseases. We underscore the importance of taking 
preventive  measures,  including  the  improvement  of 
surveillance  and  reporting  within  the  framework  of 
the overall objective of strengthening the capacities of 
African countries’ health systems to tackle malaria and 
other health issues.
Mr.  Ten-Pow  (Guyana):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  in  today’s  joint 
debate  on  the  agenda  items  “New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development:  progress  in  implementation 
and international support” and on “2001-2010: Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa”. We thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  insightful  reports,  contained  in  documents 
A/71/189 and A/71/203, which provide a comprehensive 
overview of what has been achieved to date, as well as 
the challenges encountered and the work that remains 
to be done.
CARICOM would like to express its support once 
again for the African-led and African-owned approach 
to socioeconomic revival that the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  represents.  We  note 
with  satisfaction  the  progress  that  has  been  achieved 
in  recent  years,  while  recognizing  that  there  are  still 
many hurdles to be overcome before the goals set can 
be  fully  achieved.  NEPAD  has  enabled  Africans  to 
chart  their  own  course  towards  higher  standards  of 
living,  surmount  the  ravages  of  conflict  and  poverty, 
and fulfil the rich promise of their boundless potential; 
the progress made thus far illustrates its effectiveness 
as a development model for Africa.
It  is  especially  encouraging  to  learn  that,  despite 
the  difficult  global  economic  environment  in  2015, 
the international community has continued to support 
NEPAD’s  implementation  through  financing,  trade, 
debt  relief  and  South-South  cooperation.  Indeed, 
the  progress  made  in  the  areas  of  infrastructure 
development,  trade,  a  conflict-free  Africa,  gender 
equality  and  women’s  empowerment  is  testimony  to 
NEPAD’s  viability  and  provides  strong  justification 
for its continued international support. The initiatives 
being  undertaken  through  NEPAD  coincide  with  the 
objectives  of  the  International  Decade  for  People  of 
African Descent, which is being observed from 2015 to 
2024, in that it is a vehicle for taking effective measures 
to  implement  a  programme  of  activities  in  a  spirit  of 
recognition,  justice  and  development  for  people  of 
African descent.
Earlier  this  week,  we  observed  the  International 
Day of the Girl Child, again highlighting the ambition 
for  gender  equality  embodied  in  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. It was a solemn reminder that girls 
still face widespread disadvantages and discrimination 
on a daily basis. Against that backdrop, it is heartening 
to  note  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  that,  where 
gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment  are 
concerned,  major  legislative  reforms  have  achieved 
10/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
significant  results  in  education,  health  and  political 
participation. The report also indicates, however, that 
challenges remain for women in the areas of economic 
empowerment  and  human  rights  violations,  as  well 
as  in  gender  disparities,  violence  against  women  and 
women’s  inadequate  participation  in  peace  processes. 
We urge that more aggressive action be taken in those 
critical areas.
On the health front, CARICOM is encouraged by 
the progress of recent years in the fight against malaria. 
The  African  Union  reported  on  World  Malaria  Day 
2016 that a good number of African countries had met 
the  targets  for  ending  malaria  set  in  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  that  Africa  had  accounted 
for  60  per  cent  of  the  global  drop  in  malaria-related 
deaths,  with  6.2  million  lives  saved  since  2000. 
CARICOM  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
renew its commitment to supporting Africa and other 
affected  regions  in  fighting  that  preventable  disease. 
We  endorse  the  Secretary-General’s  assessment  that 
building sustainable health systems capable of meeting 
current and future threats, such as that of Ebola, is key 
to ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for 
all Africans.
remains  a  major 
threat 
Climate  change 
in  Africa,  given 
to 
sustainable  development 
the 
continent’s vulnerability to environmental and climatic 
events.  Against  the  backdrop  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and other global frameworks, 
including  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change and the African Union’s 
Agenda  2063,  CARICOM  urges  African  countries 
and their development partners to heed the Secretary-
General’s  call  to  work  towards  incorporating  those 
mainstream  agendas  into  their  national  development 
frameworks, as their effective implementation will help 
to realize NEPAD’s priorities.
The Secretary-General’s report identifies two major 
challenges to realizing NEPAD’s objectives — first, a 
lack  of  adequate  financial  support,  and  secondly,  the 
severe institutional and technical capacity constraints, 
at  the  country  level,  in  the  African  Union  and  in 
the  regional  economic  communities,  that  prevent 
effective  implementation  in  all  four  of  NEPAD’s 
thematic  areas.  CARICOM  is  of  the  view  that  the 
significant improvements that are being recorded in the 
areas to which adequate resources have been channelled 
justify  the  provision  of  further  support.  We  agree 
with  the  Secretary-General’s  assessment  that  the  full 
realization of the Goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and the aspirations of the 
African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  will  require  concerted 
efforts by both African countries and the international 
community.
A supportive international environment is critical 
to the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals in Africa, including through official development 
assistance,  foreign  direct  investment,  trade  and  debt 
relief,  and  in  that  regard,  as  I  said,  we  are  pleased 
to  note  that  the  international  community’s  support 
has  continued.  We  join  with  the  Secretary-General 
in  urging  African  countries, 
their 
development partners, to continue to take measures to 
strengthen the basis for growth while promoting social 
policies aimed at addressing poverty and inequality, in 
line with the 2030 Agenda’s vision of ensuring that no 
one is left behind.
together  with 
took 
CARICOM  also  supports  the  call  made  at  the 
2015  African  Union  Summit  in  Johannesburg  for  the 
United  Nations  to  further  enhance  its  cooperation 
with  the  African  Union,  especially  in  the  context  of 
implementing the African Union’s Agenda 2063.
Mr.  Doualeh  (Djibouti),  Vice-President, 
the Chair.
CARICOM reaffirms its commitment to continued 
collaboration  with  Africa 
in  addressing  common 
challenges to peace and development and in contributing 
together  to  a  more  prosperous  and  secure  world.  Our 
close  interaction  and  collaboration  within  the  United 
Nations  and  under  the  mechanisms  of  the  African, 
Caribbean  and  Pacific  Group  of  States  have  helped 
to  ensure  a  constant  renewal  of  the  fraternal  bonds 
between  our  peoples  and  regions.  We  look  forward 
to  strengthening  those  ties  even  further  in  the  years 
ahead. In that connection, I am pleased to report that 
CARICOM’s  decades-long  relationship  with  Africa  is 
being consolidated through a strengthened diplomatic 
presence in Africa, increased people-to-people ties and 
the pursuit of economic and technical cooperation for 
our mutual benefit.
In conclusion, the States members of the Caribbean 
Community  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  their  renewed  confidence  in  the  prospects 
for  Africa’s  continued  progress  and  to  reiterate  our 
commitment to a strong partnership with Africa for the 
mutual benefit of our two fraternal regions.
16-32961
11/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
Mr. Ismail (Brunei Darussalam): Before delivering 
my  statement,  I  would  like  to  express  our  deepest 
condolences and sympathies to our Thai colleagues on 
the  passing  yesterday  of  His  Majesty  King  Bhumibol 
Adulyadej  of  Thailand.  Our  thoughts  and  prayers  are 
with  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  Kingdom 
of Thailand on this very sad day. I would also like to 
express  our  sorrow  on  the  passing  of  our  dear  friend 
and  colleague  Ambassador  Girma  Tesfay,  Permanent 
Representative of Eritrea.
I  have  the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on 
agenda  item  62  on  behalf  of  the  10  States  members 
of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  —  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the 
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam, as well 
as my own country, Brunei Darussalam.
ASEAN aligns itself with the statement delivered 
earlier  by  the  representative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China.
We  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  reports  (A/71/189,  A/71/203 
and  A/71/211),  which  have  provided  us  with  valuable 
updates  and  practical  recommendations  on  the  way 
forward for Africa’s development. We are encouraged 
by  the  fact  that  Africa  continues  to  make  economic 
strides,  despite  the  slowdown  in  the  global  economy 
and the low commodity prices that have lowered growth 
projections for the continent. The signing in 2015 of an 
agreement on the Tripartite Free Trade Area has paved 
the  way  to  an  agreement  on  a  continental  free-trade 
area  by  2017,  which  would  boost  intra-African  trade 
and provide for more economic opportunities with the 
rest of the world.
As we work towards ASEAN’s Community Vision 
2025, there are many areas where ASEAN and Africa 
could cooperate so as to realize our shared aspirations 
for  the  development  and  future  of  our  regions.  Six 
decades  after  the  Bandung  Conference  was  held  in 
1955,  its  spirit  continues  to  guide  us  in  addressing 
issues of common concern on a basis of mutual respect 
and trust, in accordance with the relevant principles of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  I  would  therefore 
like to express ASEAN’s support for full and effective 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  which  will  also  provide  a 
strong foundation for the Africa Union’s Agenda 2063.
We note the good progress that many of the African 
Member  States  have  made  towards  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals. As we embark on our 
journey to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  it  is  vital  that  we  continue  to  work 
together  to  collectively  reach  those  global  goals.  In 
that regard, ASEAN continues to encourage NEPAD’s 
efforts  to  prioritize  health,  education  and  gender 
mainstreaming  on  their  agenda.  We  also  welcome 
the  valuable  contribution  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  to  strengthening  engagement  between 
Governments and their peoples.
We  realize  that  it  is  difficult  to  achieve  progress 
and development without durable peace. The growing 
threats  of 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism  and 
the  existence  of  protracted  armed  conflicts  stunt 
development.  That  is  why  we  continue  to  have  faith 
in  NEPAD’s  programmes,  particularly  those  aimed  at 
developing  human  capital  in  order  to  promote  peace, 
security and prosperity.
In  conclusion,  ASEAN  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
solidarity  with  and  support  for  the  endeavours  of  our 
African  friends  and  the  international  community  to 
achieve greater progress in implementing the NEPAD 
agenda for the benefit of Africa.
Mr.  McCulley 
(United  States  of  America): 
President  Obama  spoke  of  the  centrality  of  Africa 
during a speech on 24 September to the United States-
Africa Business Forum. He said that with so many of the 
key challenges we face — our security, our prosperity, 
climate  change,  the  struggle  for  human  rights  and 
human dignity and the reduction of conflict — Africa 
is essential to our progress.
Africa’s rise is important not just to Africa but to the 
entire world. That is why the United States appreciates 
the holistic, comprehensive and integrated approach to 
sustainable  development  that  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  represents.  NEPAD’s 
four  programmes  of  work  articulate  a  clear  and 
compelling plan of action for sustainable development in 
Africa, covering as it does natural resources, governance 
and food security; regional integration, infrastructure 
and  trade;  industrialization,  science,  technology  and 
innovation;  and  human  capital  development,  youth 
employment and women’s empowerment.
We  are  proud  supporters  of  NEPAD’s  vision, 
and  many  of  the  foreign  assistance  programmes 
and  partnerships  of  the  United  States  are  providing 
12/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
concrete  assistance  in  Africa  that  helps  to  advance 
all  of  NEPAD’s  work  programmes.  For  example,  our 
Feed  the  Future  programme  focuses  on  increasing 
crop  yields,  which  in  turn  result  in  higher  incomes, 
improved  nutrition,  enhanced  food  security  and 
stronger  economies.  In  2015  alone,  Feed  the  Future 
helped  more  than  3.6  million  African  farmers  gain 
access to new tools and technologies, such as high-yield 
crops  and  seeds,  fertilizer  application  tools  and  best 
practices in soil conservation and water management. 
Those  and  other  efforts  helped  farmers  supported  by 
Feed the Future realize more than $450 million in new 
agricultural sales that same year.
is  mobilizing  billions  of  dollars 
In  the  area  of  energy  security,  our  Power  Africa 
programme 
in 
investment from Government and businesses in order to 
reduce the number of Africans living without electricity. 
Power Africa’s 120 private- and public-sector partners 
have committed more than $43 billion, including more 
than  $31  billion  from  private-sector  partners  alone. 
After three years of operation, Power Africa has helped 
to facilitate private-sector power transactions that are 
expected to generate 4,600 megawatts of new, cleaner 
power. Similarly, the contributions of the United States 
to the Green Climate Fund are financing projects that 
will  help  developing  countries  mitigate  and  improve 
their resilience to the effects of climate change, including 
projects in the Gambia, Mali, Malawi, Rwanda, Kenya 
and  Uganda.  In  order  to  better  serve  least-developed 
countries, the project process has been streamlined to 
improve funding access, and $3 million per country has 
been  allocated  to  support  the  formulation  of  national 
climate-change adaptation plans.
The United States is also investing in comprehensive 
health  programmes  aimed  at  preventing  and  treating 
diseases. For example, the President’s Malaria Initiative 
(PMI),  launched  in  2005,  provided  for  a  historic 
$1.2  billion  expansion  of  United  States  Government 
resources to fight malaria in sub-Saharan Africa. Last 
year alone, PMI protected more than 16 million people 
through the spraying of homes and procured more than 
42  million  long-lasting  insecticide-treated  bednets, 
almost  60  million  anti-malarial  treatments  and  more 
than 54 million rapid diagnostic tests.
Good governance is a central tenet of United States 
foreign  assistance.  As  President  Obama  has  noted, 
nothing will unlock Africa’s economic potential more 
than ending the cancer of corruption. The United States 
leadership,  in  establishing  the  Open  Government 
increased 
(OGP),  has 
Partnership 
transparency, 
bolstered  citizen  engagement  and  harnessed  new 
technologies to improve good governance, transparency 
and  accountability. 
In  September,  South  Africa 
concluded its one-year tenure as lead Government OGP 
Chair, and we are grateful for its leadership. During the 
year, South Africa hosted an Africa regional meeting, 
bringing together members of OGP Governments and 
civil  society  from  across  the  continent  to  exchange 
best  practices.  It  also  co-hosted  the  OGP  five-year 
anniversary  event  on  the  margins  of  the  high-level 
week of the General Assembly.
Ensuring  that  the  OGP  plays  a  meaningful  role 
in  broadening  the  fight  against  corruption  in  pivotal 
African countries such as its newest member, Nigeria, 
and  in  advancing  transparent  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals, will be a key priority 
going  forward.  The  United  States  is  pleased  that  the 
OGP  steering  committee  recently  endorsed  a  new 
partnership with NEPAD, and looks forward to strong 
collaboration in advancing work on the continent.
Finally,  gender  equality  is  a  core  component  of 
United  States  foreign  assistance.  Years  of  experience 
have  taught  us  that  greater  gender  equality  means 
better outcomes for everyone, and that when we invest 
in  women  and  girls  we  see  a  direct  benefit  to  their 
potential as individuals, as well as related improvements 
in  their  families,  communities  and  entire  societies. 
The  United  States  is  fully  committed  to  promoting 
gender equality through partnerships such as Let Girls 
Learn,  which  helps  adolescent  girls  complete  their 
education  and  pursue  their  broader  aspirations.  The 
Obama  administration’s  holistic  approach  to  girls’ 
education includes investments of more than $1 billion 
in new and ongoing programming by the United States 
Government in more than 50 countries, and nearly 100 
private-sector partnerships for promoting the education 
of adolescent girls around the world.
We look forward to continuing our work with the 
African  Union  and  the  Governments  and  peoples  of 
Africa  as  equal  partners,  in  the  efforts  to  make  the 
vision of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and the African Union’s Agenda 2063 a reality.
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Abascal 
in 
Spanish): We would like to thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  reports  (A/71/189,  A/71/203  and  A/71/211)  on 
today’s agenda items.
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
16-32961
13/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier  by  the  representative  of  Thailand  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China.
The  Secretary-General’s 
In  Cuba’s  view,  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  is  unquestionably  one  of  the 
most  commendable  initiatives  launched  in  Africa  in 
recent  decades,  based  on  principles  that  reflect  the 
commitment of the region’s political leaders to making 
political, economic and social progress on the continent.
report  on  NEPAD 
(A/71/189)  takes  account  of  the  economic  and  social 
transformations  that  Africa  has  been  undergoing. 
However, we must recognize that the road to sustainable 
development continues to present challenges. In many 
cases, a chronic lack of resources for public investment 
is  an  obstacle  to  full  implementation  of  NEPAD’s 
development  plans.  Where 
is 
concerned, African countries face numerous structural 
hindrances to their access to global markets. The lack 
of  financing  for  trade  and  the  presence  of  tariff  and 
non-tariff  barriers  in  developed  countries’  markets, 
including  subsidies  that  distort  trade,  continue  to 
prevent Africa from achieving its export potential.
international 
trade 
The  continuing  decline  in  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  is  another  cause  for  concern  about 
development initiatives in Africa. That decline and the 
unfavourable  world  economic  conditions  during  the 
period under consideration present a true challenge for 
the  implementation  for  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and the African Union 2063 Agenda and 
endanger  the  progress  already  made  in  implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  call  upon 
all  developed  countries  to  comply  with  their  ODA 
commitments and step up their support for NEPAD.
Cuba  has  always  defended  the  historical  and 
moral  responsibility  of  the  international  community 
to help African development in the wake of centuries 
of  colonialism,  looting  and  siphoning  off  of  African 
wealth. For some, Africa continues to be merely a myth 
and a veritable mine of resources, a place where they 
can  obtain  substantial  profits  without  paying  a  high 
cost and without suffering the disastrous consequences 
that have plagued the African people as a result of this 
centuries-long  process  of  exploitation  and  pillage.  To 
take care of African problems, we must get rid of that 
philosophy  of  profit  and  plunder  at  any  cost,  which 
underpins the unfair international economic order that 
has been forced upon the world.
Not only does Africa continue to be marginalized 
and completely disadvantaged in international economic 
relations,  but  its  levels  of  poverty  are  continuing 
to  grow  at  an  alarming  rate,  and  it  is  experiencing 
increased armed conflict and the spread of diseases that 
are decimating entire nations on the African continent. 
The cause of this has been the economic and financial 
policies  and  the  unbridled  waves  of  privatization 
accompanying  the  neoliberal  globalization  process 
imposed by the developed countries. It is these policies 
and  this  privatization,  which  were  supposed  to  make 
the  situation  in  Africa  less  precarious,  and  not  the 
weaknesses of African institutions — as the developed 
countries want us to believe — that are to blame.
As  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  NEPAD 
states, the 2030 Agenda, in which the specific problems 
of Africa are recognized, began to be implemented in 
2015 and the importance of supporting the 2063 Agenda 
and  NEPAD  was  reaffirmed.  Both  Agendas  share 
similar  strategic  principles,  with  a  focus  on  people, 
peace, justice, human rights, prosperity, environmental 
sustainability  and  mutually  accountable  partnerships. 
Cuba firmly believes that, in the context of NEPAD, the 
African leaders will be able to resolve the conflicts that 
currently present additional obstacles to achieving the 
economic and social development goals of the region.
The  people  of  Cuba  are  direct  and  natural  heirs 
of  the  gallantry,  courage  and  spirit  of  endurance  of 
Africa,  which  has  struggled  heroically  for  centuries 
to  overcome  countless  challenges.  We  are  proud  of 
that. Africa is very dear to our hearts in Cuba — it is 
an  essential  part  of  what  Cubans  are.  It  informs  our 
identity and our culture; many Cubans have their roots 
in Africa. Thanks to the profound international beliefs 
of  the  Cuban  Revolution,  our  country  has  always 
shown  solidarity  with  Africa,  whether  in  the  form  of 
unconditional  support  for  anti-colonialist  struggles 
or  through  cooperation  projects  in  many  spheres  of 
economic and social development.
In  the  context  of  South-South  cooperation,  our 
country  continues  to  provide  its  human  capital  and 
experience  in  its  cooperation  with  African  countries. 
Allow  me  to  mention  a  few  prime  examples  of  that 
cooperation.  More  than  2,600  African  fellowship-
holders  are  studying  subjects  at  universities  in  Cuba, 
including  medical  science.  More  than  5,000  Cuban 
cooperation workers are serving in 34 African nations 
in order to boost development in diverse areas, including 
public  health,  education,  agriculture,  sports  and 
14/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
construction.  More  than  27,000  African  patients  have 
recovered their sight through a joint Cuban-Venezuelan 
programme known as Operation Miracle.
And  Africa  has  always  shown  solidarity  with 
Cuba.  In  the  more  than  50  years  since  the  economic, 
commercial and financial blockade was first imposed 
on my country, the Governments and peoples of Africa 
have  closed  ranks  in  support  of  the  Cuban  people’s 
right to decide their own destiny.
including 
the  vector  control  programme, 
Cuba  has  always  been  supportive  of  the  African 
continent  in  its  quest  to  eradicate  malaria  by  means 
of 
the 
construction  of  biolarvicide  production  factories  in 
Africa,  staff  development  initiatives,  the  training 
of  community  workers  and 
informal  educational 
discussions  on  environmental  sanitation.  The  malaria 
control  programme  has  borne  fruit:  it  has  reduced 
infant  and  maternal  mortality  rates,  which  is  an 
important result when we bear in mind that 90 per cent 
of malaria-related deaths occur in Africa and that most 
of  the  victims  are  children  under  5  years  old.  Cuba 
will continue to help the African continent to eradicate 
the epidemic.
Our  country  will  continue  to  support  the  African 
Union and all the regional coordination mechanisms in 
the quest to find African solutions to African problems. 
It will continue to advocate respect for the sovereignty 
of  the  African  continent  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  African  countries.  We  hope  that 
the General Assembly will tackle the true root causes 
of  the  challenges  facing  the  continent,  which  are  the 
result  of  decades  of  colonization  and  plundering. 
African countries urgently need special and differential 
treatment,  market  access  for  their  products,  stable 
commodity  prices,  external  debt  forgiveness,  access 
to  technologies,  significantly  increased  ODA  and 
adequate financial resources for their purposes, which 
must be provided without interference or preconditions. 
Africa cannot wait any longer. Let us act now.
Mr.  Al-Otaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It 
is  my  pleasure  to  speak  on  the  agenda  items  under 
consideration. We have taken note of the reports of the 
Secretary-General  (A/71/189,  A/71/203  and  A/71/211) 
and  his  recommendations.  We  welcome  the  progress 
made in implementing the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  and  all  the  achievements  with  regard  to 
security,  food  security,  development,  the  rule  of  law, 
education and the empowerment of women in Africa.
I express my deep thanks to the Office of the Special 
Adviser  on  Africa  and  the  Office  of  the  Permanent 
Observer  of  the  African  Union  to  the  United  Nations 
for  the  rich  debate  and  deliberations  during  Africa 
Week,  which  will  lead  to  the  economic  and  political 
development of Africa.
In 2015 we witnessed the adoption of two historic 
agendas: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and the African Union 2063 Agenda, which represents 
the  long-term  strategic  vision  for  the  transformation 
of  Africa  over  the  next  50  years.  The  first  Ten-Year 
Implementation Plan was adopted in 2015. We believe 
that through synergy, the two Agendas will lead to the 
achievement of sustainable development in Africa and 
of  all  African  development  objectives.  That  has  been 
reflected  in  the  report  (A/71/203)  of  the  Secretary-
General and the focus on the four thematic areas.
infrastructure  development, 
We  would  like  to  concentrate  here  on  the  major 
objectives: 
trade,  a 
conflict-free Africa, and gender equality and women’s 
empowerment.  We  stress  the  major  challenges  facing 
the  African  continent,  including  the  lack  of  financial 
support and the current worrisome economic situation, 
given  the  unfavourable  global  economic  conditions. 
The  report  highlights  the  fact  that  African  countries 
continue to face weak productivity in the agricultural 
sector.  They  are  suffering  from  a  lack  of  financing, 
unemployment  and  challenges  resulting  from  climate 
change.  We  also  would  like  to  stress  the  areas  of 
importance, namely, good governance, the rule of law, 
human rights and the empowerment of women.
Kuwait  remains  convinced  of  the  importance 
of  cooperation  in  all  areas  of  development.  We  have 
provided assistance to developing countries, including 
the least developed among them, throughout the world, 
particularly  in  Africa,  through  our  aid  agencies.  We 
base our policies on the conviction that assistance and 
cooperation  will  enable  development  projects  to  be 
carried out, thereby ensuring sustainable development 
for  the  benefit  of  such  countries.  My  country  will 
continue  to  support  the  aspirations  of  developing 
countries and those of African countries in particular. 
The sum total of contributions and assistance provided 
by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development 
has amounted to $6.4 billion.
We  are  very  proud  of  our  historical  relations 
with  African  countries.  We  enjoy  observer  status  in 
the  African  Union.  In  November  2013,  we  hosted  the 
16-32961
15/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
third  Africa-Arab  Summit  on  the  theme  “Partners 
in  development  and  investment”.  We  also  provided 
concessionary  loans  as  part  of  our  commitment  to 
African countries. We will hand over the chairmanship 
of the Summit to Mauritania prior to the fourth Summit, 
which  will  be  held  in  Malabo  in  November.  We  will 
confer awards in the area of health for 2015 and that of 
food  security  for  2016.  We  will  continue  to  maintain 
our  policy  of  cooperation  on  the  basis  of  our  deeply 
held conviction of the need to support quality education 
and combat illiteracy in Africa.
In conclusion, we reiterate our steadfast commitment 
to all the aspirations and hopes of African countries to 
achieve sustainable development in the continent.
Mr. Kononuchenko (Russian Federation) (spoke in 
Russian):  Let  me  congratulate  the  African  Union  and 
the United Nations system on a successful Africa Week. 
The activities held during the event have clearly shown 
the  enormous  potential  and  desire  of  the  countries  of 
Africa to achieve sustainable development. They have 
already  gone  far  in  implementing  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.
including 
types  of  challenges, 
However,  the  continent  remains  vulnerable  to 
various 
terrorism, 
separatism,  an  imperfect  public  health  system,  soil 
degradation  and  the  unsustainable  use  of  water.  It  is 
therefore  important  to  ensure  an  appropriate  level 
of  support  for  Africa  so  as  to  strengthen  the  positive 
momentum and help the African countries embark on 
an  irreversible  path  of  progress  in  line  with  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We  are  of  the  view  that  African  countries  must, 
independently and without pressure imposed upon them 
from  abroad,  make  decisions  with  regard  to  strategy 
and  tactics  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals in line, on the one hand, with their own national 
priorities, and, on the other, with the collective regional 
vision of the future of the continent and its place and 
role  in  global  politics  and  economics.  In  that  regard, 
the  Russian  Federation  welcomed  the  adoption  of  the 
African Union Agenda 2063, the key vectors of which 
are in line with the 2030 Agenda. We support the chorus 
of  the  African  Union  for  a  balanced  and  reasoned 
blending  of  the  two  agendas,  which  will  help  in  their 
successful implementation.
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  there 
is a need to increase assistance to Africa with a view 
to  eradicating  poverty,  unemployment  and  inequality, 
which  taken  together  provide  fertile  ground  for  the 
emergence  of  conflicts.  We  call  for  vital  focus  to 
be  placed  on  developing  industrial  production  and 
transport  infrastructure,  strengthening  trade  potential 
and improving the public health and education systems. 
In  that  context,  we  supported  the  decision  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventieth  session  to  launch 
a new Industrial Development Decade for Africa (see 
resolution 70/295).
We trust that African countries, for their part, will 
continue to update legislation, especially in the areas of 
finance, taxes and investments, with a view to mobilizing 
domestic  resources  and  developing  partnerships.  For 
our part, we will continue to provide assistance to our 
African  partners  through  bilateral  and  multilateral 
channels. We are prepared to use both traditional forms 
of  assistance  and  look  for  new  innovative  ways  for 
mutually advantageous cooperation.
Russia is actively helping to ease the debt burden of 
African States. To date, as part of the Heavily Indebted 
Poor  Countries  Initiative,  we  have  forgiven  the  main 
portion  of  Africa’s  debt  of  more  than  $20  billion. 
We  grant  wide-ranging  trade  preferences  to  African 
countries.  Regarding  African  goods,  we  have  a 
preferred  customs  and  tariff  regime  covering  a  major 
portion of Russian imports from Africa.
Substantial  support  is  given  for  the  training  of 
personnel.  At  present,  we  have  more  than  10,000 
Africans  studying 
in  Russian  higher  educational 
institutions,  more  than  4,000  of  whom  are  paid  for 
from  our  federal  budget.  In  the  2015/16  academic 
year  sub-Saharan  African  States  have 
received 
more  than  1,000  scholarships.  Russia  contributes 
to  international  assistance  programmes  for  Africa 
through  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World 
Bank,  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the  World 
Food  Programme  (WFP).  In  2014-2015, 
through 
WFP  channels,  we  provided  food  aid  to  Somalia, 
Kenya, Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia for a total of 
$10  million.  To  re-equip  WFP’s  pool  of  vehicles  in  a 
number of African countries, Russia allocated Kamaz 
vehicles that were worth around $10 million.
Russia also provided African States with assistance 
in  the  health  sector.  Our  country  was  one  of  the  first 
to  react  to  the  Ebola  virus  epidemic  in  West  African 
countries. To combat the virus, Russia allocated more 
than  $60  million.  We  made  a  contribution  of  about 
$6.6  million  to  the  fund  of  the  International  Civil 
16/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
Defence  Organization  and  earmarked  it  for  purchase 
in  Russia  and  delivery  to  Conakry  and  Monrovia 
of  specialized  medical  modules,  mobile  medical 
warehouses and Kamaz vehicles.
Mr.  Chenneerappa  (India):  We  are  meeting  at  a 
time  of  hope  for  multilateralism.  The  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  is 
under way and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
will enter into force next month. In addition, Africa has 
separately commenced the first phase of implementing 
its  own  African  Union  Agenda  2063,  which  builds 
on  the  core  priorities  of  the  now  15-year-old  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  International 
collaboration remains crucial in assisting Africa move 
towards the effective implementation of the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
Africa  has  made  rapid  strides  in  recent  years.  Its 
overall economic output has grown. Poverty rates have 
fallen. Life expectancy has increased. Today Africa is a 
young continent. Rates of infant and maternal mortality 
have  fallen.  Primary  school  enrolment,  including  for 
girls,  has  increased.  Malnutrition  has  been  reduced 
and access to safe drinking water has increased. HIV 
infection  and  prevalence  rates  have  been  reversed. 
Foreign  direct  investment  in  sectors  such  as  mining, 
has  increased  in  recent  years.  Expanding  mobile 
connectivity is leading to innovative money transfers.
We  appreciate  the  organization  of  the  ongoing 
Africa Week from 13 to 17 October, which provides a 
good opportunity to engage the entities of the United 
Nations  systems  on  ways  to  further  strengthen  the 
institutional  partnership  as  a  means  of  effectively 
implementing the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063. We 
congratulate the Office of the Under-Secretary-General 
and  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  on  successfully 
focusing the attention of the international community 
on this matter.
skill 
The  continuing  challenges  to  development  in 
Africa are well studied. Some of the critical constraints 
persist, including difficulties surrounding agricultural 
productivity; 
development;  manufacturing 
capability; the current low commodity prices and slow 
economic growth; lack of diversification of economies; 
poor connectivity and infrastructure; limited regional 
integration; and rapid unplanned urbanization. Chronic 
armed  conflicts  for  control  over  resources  in  certain 
regions  of  Africa  also  impede  progress.  The  reliance 
on official development assistance continues to be high 
despite the declining levels of such aid from traditional 
donors,  although  collaboration  with  non-traditional 
donors  is  growing.  There  is  wide  economic  disparity 
across the African continent. While Africa’s combined 
gross domestic product (GDP) is $2.4 trillion, the top 
10 economies of Africa account for nearly $2 trillion, 
while 34 countries have a GDP of less than $15 billion 
each and around 10 countries have a GDP of less than 
$2 billion each. Africa’s trade is only 3 per cent of the 
global  figure,  and  intra-Africa  trade  is  a  mere  12  per 
cent of that.
India and Africa represent one third of humanity. 
Our  similar  and  shared  experiences  and  struggles 
translate into a similar scale of challenges and concerns 
at  the  level  of  both  national  priorities  and  collective 
interests  in  an  increasingly  globalized  world.  India 
and  Africa  worked  together  to  develop  a  common 
understanding  of  our  core  priorities  for  an  inclusive 
economic  growth  to  eradicate  poverty  and  allocate 
adequate resources in the debates on SDGs, the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda and the 2030 Agenda.
There  are  great  synergies  between  the  African 
Union’s Agenda 2063, the 2030 Agenda and the focused 
priorities  being  pursued  by  the  Government  of  India. 
The India-Africa strategic partnership seeks to address 
many of the challenges that the African Union and our 
African  partners  have  identified.  The  core  strengths 
of our development partnership are capacity-building, 
mobilizing  financial  support  and 
the  sharing  of 
technical expertise. The partnership complements our 
rapidly growing trade and investment links.
employment 
opportunities; 
We focus on programmes for poverty eradication; 
provision of affordable quality health care and education; 
generating 
building 
access  to  modern  and  renewable  energy  services; 
infrastructure; and connectivity between resources and 
markets. Today Africa and India represent young and 
dynamic societies and economies that are intensifying 
their  collaboration  to  achieve  greater  prosperity  for 
their peoples.
Building  on  our  bilateral  engagements,  India 
has  initiated  closer  interaction  with  Africa’s  regional 
communities  over  the  past  three  decades.  Since  the 
First  India-Africa  Forum  Summit  of  2008,  more  than 
40,000 Indian scholarships have been taken up by our 
African friends to participate in more than 300 different 
training programmes at 40 specialized institutions in a 
number of areas. They include information technology, 
16-32961
17/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
small  and  medium-sized  enterprises, 
renewable energy, agriculture, marine and aeronautical 
engineering,  marine  hydrography,  entrepreneurship 
in 
rural 
logistics  and 
development,  parliamentary  affairs, 
management,  climate-change  adaptation,  disaster 
management,  cybersecurity,  forensic  sciences  and 
defence and security.
In  the  past  decade,  India  has  approved  almost 
$9 billion in concessional credit for nearly 140 projects 
in  more  than  40  African  countries,  with  special 
emphasis on partners that are least developed countries 
(LDCs) and small island developing States. The areas 
have included power generation and distribution, water 
supply and irrigation, agriculture, light manufacturing, 
renewable  energy,  construction  of  infrastructure,  and 
so forth. At the Third India-Africa Forum Summit, held 
last October, India offered an additional $100 billion in 
concessional credit on more attractive terms than in the 
past, a further 50,000 scholarships and grants-in-aid of 
$600 million over the next five years.
India was among the first emerging economies to 
offer  a  duty-free  market  access  scheme  for  LDCs.  In 
2014, that unilateral scheme was further expanded and 
now  extends  to  34  African  countries  and  is  aimed  at 
increasing  their  exports  to  India.  Africa-India  trade 
multiplied twentyfold in the last 15 years and doubled 
in  the  last  five  years  to  reach  nearly  $72  billion  last 
year, making India the fourth largest trading partner for 
Africa. Indian foreign direct investment in Africa has 
also surged, with major investments having taken place 
in  the  telecommunications,  information  technology 
(IT), energy, engineering, chemicals, pharmaceuticals 
and  automobile  sectors.  Some 
financial 
institutions  and  infrastructure  companies  have  also 
collaborated  with  the  African  Development  Bank  to 
facilitate project development efforts.
Indian 
India  has  actively  worked  with 
international 
partners and the United Nations to collectively address 
the  challenges  posed  by  pandemics,  including  HIV/
AIDS and the Ebola virus in Africa, including through 
affordable  quality  generic  medicines.  Our  flagship 
programmes  of  telemedicine  and  tele-education  have 
helped expand access to education and health to people 
in remote areas. India’s experience of using IT tools for 
wide-ranging  e-governance  aspects  for  greater  reach, 
transparency,  accountability  and  financial  inclusion, 
including the provision of a unique identity for over one 
billion people, can be of interest in the African context.
India  has  also  offered  to  assist  Africa  in  the  use 
of  space  technology  for  multiple  development  uses, 
including  crop  inventory,  drought  assessment  and 
monitoring, water resources management, forestry and 
the  environment,  locust  early-warning,  infrastructure 
development 
and  disaster  management.  Those 
specialized real-time IT and space-technology solutions 
can  greatly  assist  Governments  in  the  planning  and 
monitoring of the various development projects leading 
to the implementation of the SDGs.
Besides 
the  wide-ranging  development  and 
humanitarian assistance efforts, India also partners with 
Africa in promoting peace and security through its long-
standing contribution to United Nations peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding efforts. Recent initiatives have also 
included  trilateral  cooperation,  along  with  the  United 
States of America, to offer training for Africa in United 
Nations peacekeeping.
The 
long-standing  India-Africa  partnership 
is 
based  on  solidarity  and  mutual  respect;  it  is  neither 
prescriptive nor exploitative. It represents South-South 
cooperation  in  all  its  dimensions  and  continues  to 
contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda 
and the Agenda 2063.
Mr. Roet (Israel): First, I would like to convey my 
condolences for the untimely death of His Excellency 
Mr.  Girma  Asmerom  Tesfay,  the  late  Permanent 
Representative  of  Eritrea  to  the  United  Nations.  He 
was not only a colleague here in the Hall, he was also 
a  colleague  in  our  building,  and  I  remember  vividly 
meeting him many times a week. Our heartfelt sympathy 
goes out to the people of Eritrea and to the Permanent 
Mission of Eritrea.
Before I begin, I would like to take the opportunity 
to  thank  Under-Secretary-General  Maged  Abdelaziz 
and  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  for 
their commitment to promoting peace and development 
in Africa. We were delighted to have Under-Secretary-
General Abdelaziz join us at the special event entitled 
“Israeli  Innovation  and  Technologies 
in  Africa”, 
which our Prime Minister hosted during the high-level 
general debate.
Africa  has  taken  great  strides  toward  better 
prosperity  in  the  past  few  decades,  despite  the  many 
challenges  the  continent  faces.  Those  achievements 
were made possible by our working together to foster 
economic  and  social  development  and  to  establish 
stability  in  the  region.  Israel’s  first  Prime  Minister, 
18/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
David Ben-Gurion, once said, “It’s not enough to be up 
to date. You have to be up to tomorrow.”
 When Israel looks at its African neighbours today, 
we  see  the  incredible  development  that  has  occurred 
thus far, but more importantly, the immense potential 
and  hope  for  an  even  better  tomorrow.  The  African 
continent is blessed with vast natural resources, such as 
oil, gold, diamonds and metals, but the greatest and most 
precious resource of all is its human capital, the people 
of  Africa.  An  African  proverb  tells  us  that  “Where 
there  are  many,  nothing  goes  wrong”.  Well,  there  are 
many people living in Africa, over 1.2 billion men and 
women. But Africa is rich, not only because of its raw 
materials, but because of its raw talent. The trick is to 
find the keys to unlock that talent. Israel has been doing 
just that very successfully with its own population since 
its  inception,  and  we  are  currently  fostering  both  old 
and new partnerships with African States and sharing 
our methods and knowledge with them.
Israel  shares  a  special  historical  connection  with 
Africa that dates all the way back to biblical times when 
trade  relations  were  established  between  the  Queen 
of  Sheba  and  King  Solomon  in  Jerusalem  —  yes,  the 
same  Jerusalem  that  was  mentioned  yesterday  during 
the vote in UNESCO when the connection of Jews to 
Jerusalem was put into doubt. Israel respects the deep 
feelings  of  Christianity  and  Islam  towards  Jerusalem. 
We  need  to  have  the  same  special  understanding  and 
respect for Israeli ties to Jerusalem.
In  later  years,  both  our  peoples  overcame  many 
similar  challenges  that  fostered  shared  values  which 
fuel our relationships to this day. Former Israeli Prime 
Minister Golda Meir said it best:
  “[Like  Africa]...  we  had  shaken  off  foreign 
rule; like them, we had to learn for ourselves how 
to reclaim the land, how to increase the yields of 
our crops, how to irrigate... how to live together and 
how to defend ourselves.”
Our  common  struggles  continue  even  now,  as 
both  Africa  and  Israel  combat  terrorism,  cope  with 
instability in our regions and strive every day for peace 
and prosperity.
There  is  no  doubt  that  African  nations  have  the 
primary  responsibility  for  their  social  and  economic 
development.  After  all,  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  is  all  about  African  nations 
forging an Africa future together. But we live in an age 
of  globalization,  connecting  us  all  more  profoundly 
than ever before, and we, the international community, 
have  a  joint  obligation  to  develop  our  world  together 
and to create a better future for our children together. 
As  we  decided  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  no  one  gets  left  behind.  Driven  by  the 
Jewish value of tikkun olam, which means “reparing the 
world”, Israel strives to help make this world a better 
place.  We  are  ready  to  cooperate  with  our  African 
friends  in  development  efforts  in  any  way  we  can, 
whether in agriculture, health, water, irrigation, tourism, 
cybersecurity  and  the  promotion  of  entrepreneurship 
and innovation.
This  past  July,  Israel’s  Prime  Minister  Benjamin 
Netanyahu made a historic trip to Africa, during which 
he declared his intention to return to the continent very 
soon. Those trips mark a new phase for the Israel-Africa 
relationship. Although Israel is not technically a part of 
Africa,  we  feel  we  are  spiritually  and  geographically 
linked,  now  more  than  ever.  As  the  Prime  Minister 
said in his speech, “Israel is coming back to Africa and 
Africa is coming back to Israel”.
Last  month,  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  hosted  a 
special event on Israeli innovation and technologies in 
Africa,  here  at  the  United  Nations,  at  which  African 
leaders  from  over  17  countries  were  introduced  to 
Israeli technologies that will help to shape the future. 
As an example, an Israeli company, called WaterGen, 
demonstrated  technology  that  creates  an  abundant 
and  renewable  source  of  fresh,  clean  drinking  water, 
extracted  directly  from  the  air,  without  the  need  for 
any  special  infrastructure,  save  a  small  amount  of 
electricity.  Imagine  that  —  fresh  water  pulled  out  of 
thin air. Another Israeli company called Energiya Global 
has  developed  affordable  solar  projects  worldwide, 
including  in  Africa,  that  provide  clean  electricity  to 
millions of people and strive to minimize the world’s 
dependence on fossil fuels by creating alternate sources 
of clean, safe and renewable energy.
Israel 
is 
interested 
in  creating  partnerships 
with  Africa  through  both  the  private  and  public 
sectors.  Mashav,  Israel’s  Agency  for  International 
Development Cooperation, has been active throughout 
the  developing  world  since  the  late  1950s,  assisting 
countries  in  alleviating  hunger,  disease  and  poverty 
through  technical  training  and  technology  transfer, 
while  encouraging  self-reliance  and  innovation.  In 
partnership  with  Germany,  Mashav  also  launched  the 
Africa Initiative, with the purpose of addressing pressing 
16-32961
19/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
global challenges in Africa, such as the eradication of 
poverty and hunger, food security, climate change and 
more,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Paris 
Declaration  on  Aid  Effectiveness,  the  Accra  Agenda 
for  Action  and  the  Busan  Partnership  for  Effective 
Development Cooperation.
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  as 
the African-owned, African-designed and African-led 
development  strategy  for  the  continent’s  renewal.  As 
one of the five founding countries of NEPAD, Nigeria 
is  very  proud  to  be  associated  with  the  agenda  for 
change in Africa.
Long-term development and prosperity cannot truly 
be achieved without stability. That applies to Africa as 
well. Unfortunately, one of the biggest threats we face 
today is terrorism. Israel has had to deal with its fair 
share of terrorism throughout its history. We have come 
to learn that such threats must be fought constantly and 
without pause. At the same time, it is vitally important 
that we never give up on the development of our people 
and  our  nation.  Global  terrorism  is  a  threat  to  every 
country,  in  Africa  and  throughout  the  world,  and  the 
only way to overcome it and restore stability is if we 
work  together.  It  is  essential  that  we  recognize  that 
the fight against terrorism goes hand in hand with the 
pursuit  of  prosperity.  Israel  is  ready  and  willing  to 
stand  with  its  African  neighbours  and  other  partners 
to eliminate that threat by sharing our knowledge and 
experience and by working to eradicate terrorism in all 
of its forms.
Theodor Herzl, Israel’s founding father, said “Where 
there  is  a  will  there  is  a  way.”  His  words  are  used  in 
Israel to this day — they push us forward and encourage 
us to reach for the seemingly unreachable. Today, with 
our  joint  knowledge,  technology  and  resources,  the 
eradication  of  extremism  and  the  achievement  of  the 
global  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  are 
more  than  attainable.  Together,  the  countries  sitting 
here  in  this  room  today  have  turned  the  SDGs  into  a 
reality. Together, we have decided to tackle the many 
new  challenges  we  face.  Together,  we  have  decided 
to make the world a better place for our children and 
grandchildren. And together, here, today, we embrace 
the New Partnership for Africa’s Development.
Mr. Ayoko (Nigeria): At the outset, my delegation 
expresses  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  insightful  reports  on  this  agenda  item  (A/71/189, 
A/71/203 and A/71/211). Nigeria endorses the statement 
delivered by the representative of Thailand, on behalf 
of the Group of 77 and China, and by the representative 
of the Niger, on behalf of the African Group.
Since  2001,  Africa  has  witnessed  unprecedented 
progress  in  political  and  socioeconomic  development 
at  the  national  and  regional  levels.  However,  huge 
challenges  still  remain  regarding  peace  and  security, 
inclusive economic growth and sustainable development. 
My  delegation  is  concerned  that  the  ongoing  global 
economic  downturn  could  reverse 
the  changing 
narrative  coming  out  of  Africa.  The  slow  economic 
recovery  worldwide  may  hinder  the  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the  African  Union  (AU)  Agenda  2063.  My  delegation 
therefore  strongly  believes  that  unless  urgent  action 
is  taken,  individually  and  collectively,  Africa  will 
continue  to  struggle  to  overcome  extreme  poverty, 
youth unemployment and pervasive social inequalities.
It is in that context that we urge the United Nations 
and  development  partners  to  increase  their  support 
for  the  implementation  of  sustainable  development 
in  Africa.  What  we  need  is  partnerships,  not  aid. 
Stronger partnerships will certainly change the African 
landscape  by  helping  us  to  record  solid  performance 
in  the  areas  of  macroeconomic  stability,  enhanced 
capacity  development,  results-based  South-South  and 
Triangular  Cooperation,  and  increased  intra-African 
trade, and, most importantly, that of silencing guns by 
2020 for durable peace and good governance in Africa.
In  particular,  my  delegation  urges  the  global 
community  to  partner  with  NEPAD,  as  the  flagship 
programme of the African Union, in consolidating the 
gains  of  the  past  decade.  Specifically,  international 
support  for  NEPAD  should  be  aligned  with  Africa’s 
defined  development  priorities  and  interests.  The 
continent’s growth trajectory could be further enhanced 
with  critical  investments  in  NEPAD-inspired  sector 
programmes in agriculture and infrastructure. To that 
end, Nigeria calls for the accelerated implementation of 
the projects under the AU Programme for Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa  and  the  AU  Comprehensive 
Africa Agriculture Development Programme.
Without  a  doubt,  Africa  is  transforming.  Over 
a  decade  ago,  African  leaders  demonstrated  strong 
political  will  and  determination  by  adopting  the  New 
The nexus between peace and development is self-
evident,  and  Nigeria  believes  that  the  promotion  of 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa 
20/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
would facilitate the continent’s active participation in 
the  global  economy  and  promote  regional  economic 
cooperation  and  integration.  In  that  regard,  we  stress 
that good governance remains a strategic goal for the 
security,  stability  and  prosperity  of  the  continent. 
Nigeria will continue to support the bold initiative of 
the African Peer Review Mechanism, which remains an 
invaluable asset in the continent’s transformative vision 
and agenda for good governance.
We  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
support African efforts to strengthen Africa’s capacity 
to  address  the  root  causes  of  conflict  and  to  resolve 
conflicts in a peaceful manner. Furthermore, we stress 
the  need  for  the  United  Nations  system  to  support 
African regional and subregional organizations in the 
implementation of counter-terrorism action plans.
For  Nigeria,  NEPAD  remains  the  embodiment 
of  Africa’s  development  aspirations  and  the  flagship 
programme of  action for Africa to advance by means 
of inclusive growth and structural industrialization. Its 
programme of work is geared towards finding durable 
regional solutions to domestic development challenges. 
We believe that NEPAD is as relevant and fundamental 
to Africa’s development aspirations today as it was at 
its establishment in 2001.
The  Government  of  Nigeria  continues  to  support 
the  overriding  goal  of  NEPAD  to  place  African 
countries, individually and collectively, on the path to 
sustainable growth and development. It appreciates the 
emphasis NEPAD has placed on effective partnerships 
for  charting  the  course  of  Africa’s  development. 
Closely linked to that central theme in NEPAD is the 
notion that smart partnerships inspire and consolidate 
African  ownership  and 
leadership.  NEPAD  has 
demonstrated that with effective programme planning 
and  coordination,  the  implementation  of  regional  and 
continental projects is attainable.
NEPAD  has  consistently  demonstrated 
that 
political leadership can deliver the necessary guidance 
and can steer implementation policy to enable change. 
Nigeria  commends  the  constructive  work  of  NEPAD 
in  the  priority  area  of  human  capital  development, 
particularly as it relates to skills acquisition; youth and 
women  empowerment;  and  industrialization,  science, 
technology  and  innovation.  In  the  same  vein,  we 
encourage NEPAD to scale its results-based delivery in 
consideration of regional integration, natural resource 
governance and food security.
We  applaud  the  accomplishments  of  NEPAD  in 
setting  multidimensional  sector  priorities  to  boost 
State  capacity  and  revitalize  the  African  renewal. 
The  Nigerian  Government  will  continue  to  support 
and  play  an  active  role  in  the  strategic  facilitation 
and  coordination  of  regional  and  continental  priority 
programmes,  especially 
the  AU  Presidential 
Infrastructure Champions Initiative.
in 
The  African  transformation  is  also  evident  in  the 
social  development  sector.  The  2015  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  report  indicates  a  dramatic 
decline  in  the  global  malaria  burden  over  the  past  15 
years. Without a doubt, much work remains to be done, 
and  many  countries  in  Africa  continue  to  experience 
challenges in rolling back malaria. As a result, they are 
falling short of national and international targets. As the 
global community progresses with the implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the pursuit of malaria elimination, there is an ongoing 
need for the United Nations system, and especially the 
WHO  Global  Technical  Strategy  for  Malaria  2016-
2030, to assist in addressing weak health systems and 
inequitable  access  to  health  services,  and  to  increase 
domestic  and  international  financing  in  Africa.  The 
experience of combating the Ebola virus disease could 
be replicated in fighting other public health challenges.
In  conclusion,  Nigeria  reiterates  its  firm  support 
for  and  commitment  to  the  mandates  of  the  United 
Nations Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General on Africa, NEPAD, led by Dr. Ibrahim Mayaki, 
and  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa.  We  also  appreciate  the  support  of  all  United 
Nations  agencies  in  strengthening  the  institutional 
capacity  of  NEPAD.  We  urge  that  more  be  done  for 
Africa’s development.
left  behind, 
Africa  should  not  be 
in  any 
circumstance. At the very heart of NEPAD is the core 
objective  of  halting  the  marginalization  of  Africa  in 
the international arena. We must be careful to ensure 
that the changing global dynamics do not leave Africa 
stranded  or  sidelined  as  a  spectator.  It  is  vital  that 
Africa play an influential role in effective international 
development  cooperation.  I  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Nigeria  will  continue  to  work  for  an  Africa  that  is 
integrated,  united,  peaceful,  strong  and  resilient,  in 
order to boost the prosperity of its people and society.
Mr.  Annakou  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  let  me  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
16-32961
21/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
reports  on  the  agenda  items  under  consideration 
(A/71/189, A/71/203 and A/71/211). I also wish to thank 
Ambassador  Maged  Abdelaziz,  Under-Secretary-
General  and  Special  Adviser  of 
the  Secretary-
General  on  Africa,  and  Mr.  Ibrahim  Mayaki,  Chief 
Executive Officer of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD), for their efforts to support the 
African continent.
the  representative  of 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by 
the  Kingdom  of 
Thailand on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
by  the  representative  of  the  Niger  on  behalf  of  the 
African Group.
This  plenary  meeting  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) is being held one year 
after the leaders of the world adopted the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  set  17  goals  and 
169 targets and gave the assurance that no one would 
be  left  behind.  The  meeting  is  extremely  important 
because,  in  discussing  NEPAD,  we  are  moving  from 
words to actions and from planning to implementation 
at  the  international  level,  in  keeping  with  the  2030 
Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and 
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.
As  regards  Africa,  Agenda  2063:  The  Africa 
We  Want  is  a  50-year  agenda  that  is  designed  to 
transform Africa into a continent of peace and security. 
Additionally,  there  is  a  10-year  implementation  plan, 
which was adopted by the twenty-fifth African Union 
Summit, held in South Africa, in January 2015.
It is important to coordinate the relevant plans of 
action,  particularly  the  10-year  implementation  plan 
of Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda. We must move 
immediately  to  make  these  programmes  operational 
and  to  implement  them.  NEPAD  has  a  key  role  to 
play  in  ensuring  coherence  between  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and in reaching goals and 
targets  at  the  national  level,  taking  into  account  the 
religious  and  cultural  specificities  of  the  countries  of 
the  continent.  Coordination  and  integration  are  both 
important in the African continent and are only possible 
through integrated implementation, first at the national 
level  and  in  various  geographical  areas  of  Africa  and 
then  among  the  different  regions.  Only  thus  can  we 
ensure the full integration of the continent.
of the ambitious 2030 Agenda, including high levels of 
unemployment, quantitative and qualitative deficiencies 
in education, a lack of basic services such as drinking 
water and electricity, and weak infrastructure. It is vital 
that  developed  countries  comply  with  their  pledges 
to  African  countries  and  support  them  in  spurring 
economic  growth  and  attracting  investment.  Such 
support  should  include  private-sector  initiatives  to 
facilitate  technology  transfers,  especially  in  the  areas 
of  food  security,  infrastructure,  human  resources  and 
the acquisition by youth and women of skills that will 
enable  them  to  contribute  to  the  implementation  of 
the SDGs.
As 
peace 
and 
regards 
security, 
several 
States  —  including  my  own  —  are  unfortunately 
embroiled in armed conflict. There is a close relationship 
between  security  and  development;  one  cannot  be 
achieved  without  the  other.  Therefore,  institutional 
cooperation  with  the  African  Union  needs  to  be 
strengthened  if  we  are  to  prevent  conflicts,  maintain 
peace  and  deal  with  post-conflict  situations.  Human 
rights  must  be  protected  and  disarmament  imposed 
so  as  to  ensure  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  good 
governance and ensure economic stability in Africa,
Despite security issues in my country, the lack of 
stability  and  our  stalled  economy  and  development, 
Libya is committed to continuing its cooperation with 
African  States,  once  its  economic  health  has  been 
restored,  under  the  auspices  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development,  so  as  to  achieve  peace  and 
prosperity through joint action and the implementation 
of agreements. We feel that the phenomenon of illicit 
migration  must  be  dealt  with  using  solutions  that 
address  the  root  causes,  in  particular  development, 
in the countries of origin, so that those countries can 
receive  their  people  back,  truly  develop  and  use  the 
transfer of technology to enhance capacities.
Finally,  let  me  say  that  a  number  of  developing 
countries,  particularly  in  Africa  and  including  Libya, 
are suffering from a serious brain drain and the illicit 
drain of capital to other countries. States, particularly 
those to which those assets have been funnelled, must 
therefore  cooperate  in  recovering  that  wealth  and 
returning it to the countries of origin, so that the latter 
can use the capital to modernize their infrastructure.
Despite  all  the  efforts  made  and  the  progress 
achieved  with  the  help  of  our  partners,  the  continent 
continues to face many challenges in the implementation 
Mr. Hilale (Morocco) (spoke in French): I would 
first  like  to  convey  our  deepest  condolences  to  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Eritrea  following  the 
22/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
death of our brother and colleague, Ambassador Girma 
Asmerom Tesfay. May God have mercy on his soul.
key  components  in  enabling  the  economic  emergence 
of African countries.
My  delegation  would  like  to  align  itself  with  the 
statements made by the representatives of Thailand and 
the Niger on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
the Group of African States, respectively.
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this 
important meeting of the General Assembly devoted to 
the sustainable development of Africa, which represents 
the culmination of Africa Week this year. This debate, 
which is taking place one year after the adoption of the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  provides 
a  welcome  opportunity  to  consider  the  best  means 
for  achieving  sustainable  development  and  stability 
in Africa.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
special  homage  to  Mr.  Maged  Abdelaziz,  Under-
Secretary-General  and  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  for 
the  outstanding  organization  of  Africa  Week  and  for 
all  of  his  and  his  Office’s  tireless  and  selfless  efforts 
to  advance  the  interests  of  Africa  within  the  United 
Nations  system  and  elsewhere.  I  am  also  pleased  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Ibrahim  Mayaki,  the  new  Chief 
Executive Officer of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development,  and  I  wish  him  well  and  good  luck  in 
carrying out his mandate.
The Millennium Development Goals have given a 
significant boost to African countries and enabled them 
to achieve remarkable progress in the area of economic 
and  social  development.  Despite  that  progress,  the 
continent  still  faces  numerous  challenges  capable  of 
slowing its growth and development. Our priority should 
be to strengthen commitments to African development 
in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)  in  the  African  continent.  In  that  context,  the 
special  needs  of  Africa’s  development  should  receive 
due attention in the framework of the implementation 
of  the  new  2030  Agenda.  Broadening  the  base  of  the 
partnership  for  African  development  is  an  absolute 
necessity, if we want Africa to meet the SDGs by 2030.
The transformation of African economies through 
industrialization  and 
their 
production capacity, as well as through the promotion 
of  economic  growth,  have  been  decisive  factors  in 
lifting millions of Africans out of poverty, combating 
youth unemployment and empowering African women. 
Encouraging investment, developing infrastructure and 
improving  market  access  and  technology  transfer  are 
the  strengthening  of 
We believe that strengthening the African private 
sector will contribute to the diversification of African 
economies,  enhancing  added  value  and  creating 
employment,  income  and  opportunities.  We  note, 
moreover, that pledges made in connection with official 
development  assistance,  which  remains  a  significant 
source  for  financing  development,  especially  for 
African least developed countries, must be honoured.
African countries have shown a strong commitment 
to  promoting  stability  and  peace  as  drivers  and 
catalysts, as well as absolutely essential preconditions, 
for  development.  Economic  development  can  be 
achieved only in a context in which peace and stability 
predominate.  Moreover,  the  increase  in  terrorism  and 
violent  extremism  in  several  areas  of  Africa  is  likely 
to  compromise  development  and  security  efforts  in 
our  continent.  We  therefore  call  on  the  international 
community  to  provide  integral  support  to  African 
countries, so that peace and development can mutually 
reinforce each other. As our colleague from Libya just 
stated, there is no peace without development and there 
will  be  no  development  without  peace,  stability  and 
security. We wish to point out that the partnership with 
African countries should not jeopardize their national 
ownership  and  should  respect  their  national  priorities 
and development strategies.
Climate  change  is  a  major  challenge  facing  the 
development  of  Africa  and  requires  global  solutions 
in order to mitigate its effects and support adaptation 
efforts  through  adequate  funding  and  technology 
transfer. African countries, which contribute the least to 
the phenomenon of climate change, are among those that 
suffer  most  from  its  negative  impact.  Climate-change 
financing  will  be  of  critical  importance,  so  that 
development in African countries can be sustainable.
Morocco welcomes the achievement of the entry into 
force of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which 
will serve as the cornerstone of the global framework 
to  combat  climate  change  in  the  coming  years.  The 
twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change (COP 22), which has been dubbed the 
COP of Action, is to be held in Marrakech, Morocco, 
from 7 to 18 November, and will present an opportunity 
to initiate actions and initiatives aimed at turning the 
Paris  Agreement  into  a  reality.  One  initiative,  among 
16-32961
23/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
has 
always 
Morocco 
others, pertains to adapting agriculture in Africa with 
a view to improving production based on sustainability.
viewed  South-South 
cooperation as one of the pillars of its foreign policy, 
especially  with  regard  to  African  countries.  Morocco 
remains  convinced  that  only  an  African  joint  action, 
based  on  a  shared  commitment  and  strong  regional 
integration, will enable African countries to overcome 
the challenges associated with sustainable development, 
peace and security.
In  that  spirit,  Morocco  has  launched  partnership 
and  cooperation  programmes  with  African  countries 
in  many  areas,  such  as  education,  health  care, 
infrastructure,  agriculture  and  vocational  training.  In 
addition to the cooperation initiated by the Moroccan 
Government,  Moroccan  private  companies  have 
also  increased  their  investments  and  presence  in  the 
continent in key development sectors, such as air and sea 
transportation, banking, housing, telecommunications, 
tourism and infrastructure projects.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that Morocco 
is determined to commit itself to a more dynamic and 
active  partnership  at  the  international  and  regional 
levels for the development of our continent.
Mr.  Gad  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  deep 
condolences for the loss of our colleague, the Permanent 
Representative of Eritrea.
Egypt aligns itself with the statements delivered by 
the representative of the Niger on behalf of the Group 
of African States and by the representative of Thailand 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. Allow me to 
add a few points.
in  Africa,  on 
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  express  my  thanks  to 
the  Secretary-General  for  the  reports  on  the  causes 
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  and  on  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly  in  Africa  (A/71/203,  A/71/211,  A/71/189), 
and  the  recommendations  therein.  My  delegation 
would  also  like  to  express  its  thanks  to  the  Office  of 
the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  for  its  ongoing  efforts 
and for the excellent organization of Africa Week 2016, 
together with the comprehensive deliberations aimed at 
promoting development and stability in Africa.
Despite the relative improvement in the peace and 
security situation in Africa, some parts of the continent 
still suffer instability and threats to peace and security. 
That can be attributed to foreign interference in some 
cases  and  to  the  phenomenon  of  global  terrorism  in 
others.  Nevertheless,  other  reasons,  while  positive  in 
themselves,  can  also  be  responsible  for  the  state  of 
affairs that we are currently witnessing in Africa. They 
are related to the democratic process, in other words, 
free  elections,  the  transfer  of  power  and  different 
constitutional  systems;  their  existence  indicates  that 
there has been genuine development in the political life 
on the continent.
Against  that  backdrop,  numerous  efforts  have 
been carried out on the continent over the past years to 
address and prevent various crises through the creation 
of  structures  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
and  African  peace  and  security,  but  also  through  the 
development  of  good-governance  architecture 
to 
address  various  crises  and  strengthen  and  promote 
democratic  principles.  Africa  has  achieved  progress 
in  terms  of  establishing  and  maintaining  peace  and 
security.  We  can  cite,  for  example,  the  role  of  the 
multinational  African  forces  in  combating  the  Boko 
Haram terrorist group in its attacks in the Lake Chad 
Basin region.
Africa is also facing major development challenges: 
poor  human  and  institutional  capacities  and  weak 
production  and  service  sectors.  That  calls  for  more 
support for African efforts and for addressing the root 
causes  of  conflicts.  Indeed,  in  2013,  Africa  adopted 
its  own  development  agenda,  Agenda  2063.  It  was 
followed by the first 10-year implementation plan and 
the  Tripartite  Free  Trade  Area  Agreement  between 
the  three  regional  economic  communities,  as  well  as 
ongoing efforts on the part of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
to 
the 
the  success  of 
Alongside  such  regional  economic  developments, 
in  and 
African  countries  actively  participated 
contributed 
international 
negotiations  for  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action Plan 
and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, based on 
their  conviction  of  the  importance  of  supporting  an 
international sustainable development agenda through 
global partnerships to promote regional efforts, as well 
as the efforts of NEPAD.
24/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
I would like to highlight the efforts over the past years 
to combat malaria in developing countries, in particular 
in  Africa.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
continue providing technical and financial support for 
the  implementation  of  malaria-related  prevention  and 
treatment  programmes  and  efforts.  Africa  remains 
convinced of the importance of working together with 
all  of  the  international  community’s  stakeholders  to 
sustain  and  promote  all  efforts  aimed  at  maintaining 
peace  and  security  throughout  the  continent  and  to 
ensure  sustainable  development.  Hence,  there  is  a 
need  to  build  strategic  partnerships  that  are  aligned 
with  national  priorities  to  accelerate  development,  in 
particular  human  development,  and  to  deploy  further 
diplomatic  efforts  aimed  at  preventing  conflicts  and 
developing resilience.
We believe that there is no sustainable development 
without peace and there is no peace without sustainable 
development. Similarly, the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 
2063  cannot  be  achieved  without  adequate  means  of 
implementation  and  the  mobilization  of  sufficient 
resources,  including  official  development  assistance 
and  support  from  international  financial  institutions, 
and the promotion of South-South cooperation, efforts 
to combat illicit financial flows and good management 
of  the  natural  resources  in  Africa.  That  all  can  be 
reinforced  through  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
development system in order to provide the necessary 
support to all developing countries and in particular the 
least developed countries.
In conclusion, Egypt reaffirms that it will continue 
to  spare  no  effort  to  boost  cooperation  at  both  the 
national and the international levels so as to meet the 
development  aspirations  of  the  African  peoples  and 
nations and create a peaceful, stable society.
Mr.  Buhler  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
first like to join previous speakers in expressing to the 
Secretary-General, on behalf of the French delegation, 
my  sincere  thanks  for  the  three  high-quality  reports 
(A/71/203,  A/71/211,  A/71/189)  that  he  has  presented 
today  to  the  General  Assembly.  The  reports  paint  a 
very complete picture of the progress achieved in the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  commitments  made  for 
development  in  Africa.  They  also  make  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  analysis  of  the  causes  of  conflict 
and the efforts for peace and sustainable development 
in Africa.
The submission of those reports, which concluded 
Africa  Week,  which  was  full  of  interesting  activities, 
was  particularly  welcome.  With  this  year’s  theme  of 
implementing  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the 
General  Assembly  should  act  on  the  results  of  the 
historic  international  conferences  held  in  2015  on 
development  and  climate,  which  reflect  a  renewed 
commitment  to  international  cooperation:  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa 
Action  Agenda  on  financing  for  development  and  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
With  the  adoption  of  the  first  10-year  plan  for 
implementing  Agenda  2063,  which  includes  all  of 
NEPAD’s  priorities,  the  African  Union  is  showing  its 
willingness to put Africa decisively on a new path for 
development.  France  welcomes  the  important  work 
done  by  NEPAD  and  the  efforts  of  African  countries 
to  implement  the  NEPAD  programme  in  its  various 
priority  areas,  including  infrastructure  development, 
agriculture,  health,  education, 
the  environment, 
technology,  innovation,  women’s  empowerment  and 
gender  equality.  Much  progress  has  been  made  in 
showing that Africa is a continent full of promise for 
the future. We should welcome that.
But  there  are  also  significant  challenges.  Many 
obstacles and impediments are hindering development 
in  Africa.  I  could  talk  about  climate  change,  which 
affects  the  African  continent  in  particular,  especially 
the least-developed African countries. In that respect, 
the  entry  into  force  on  4  November  of  the  Paris 
Agreement is good news for Africa, and I would like, 
once  again,  to  underscore  the  key  role  played  by  the 
Secretary-General in achieving that Agreement, which 
some thought was impossible.
Other  concerns  should  also  be  emphasized: 
problems related to forced migration on the continent, 
too  many  conflicts  in  the  African  theatre  and  the 
plague  of  terrorism.  Efforts  undertaken  to  address 
those  challenges  should  be  stressed.  The  reports 
presented  today  by  the  Secretary-General  highlight 
many  approaches  for  the  future.  France  welcomes,  in 
particular, the recommendations aimed at strengthening 
the African Peace and Security Architecture in order to 
address  the  underlying  causes  of  conflict  and  combat 
terrorism.  We  underscore  our  interest  in  measures 
recommended  by  the  Secretary-General  to  strengthen 
the rights and the role of women as drivers of peace and 
sustainable development in Africa.
16-32961
25/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
The  obstacles  to  development  are  also  due  to  a 
shortage  of  infrastructure  on  the  continent.  African 
Governments  must  also  step  up  the  reform  of  their 
national  regulatory  frameworks,  promote  regional 
infrastructure  projects  and  do  more  to  involve  the 
local  private  sector.  With  African  Governments, 
the  international  community  must  also  redouble  its 
efforts  to  mobilize  additional  resources,  including 
innovative financing.
In  stressing  France’s  commitment  to  developing 
the  African  continent,  the  President  of  the  French 
Republic launched, on 20 September, from the rostrum 
of  the  General  Assembly,  an  appeal  for  Africa.  He 
proposed  a  plan  enabling  all  Africans  to  have  access 
to electricity. Two thirds of Africans still do not have 
access  to  electricity,  which  is  a  major  impediment  to 
sustainable growth in Africa. He recalled his initiative 
for renewable energy in Africa, under which 10 donors 
have already pledged €10 billion by 2020. France will 
pay 20 per cent, or one fifth, of that amount. Today, I 
renew the call on Member States to join that effort.
The  President  of  Republic  also  reiterated  his 
commitment  to  continuing  the  fight  against  the  three 
pandemics in Africa, in particular by maintaining the 
French contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria in the amount of €1.08 billion 
for the period of 2017 to 2019.
thanks 
Mr.  Sesay  (Sierra  Leone):  The  Sierra  Leone 
delegation 
the  Secretary-General  for  his 
reports on the agenda item before us today (A/71/203 
and A/71/211). We also extend our appreciation to the 
organizers of this event.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Thailand and the Niger on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China and the Group of African States, respectively.
Eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions 
is  the  greatest  global  challenge  and  an  indispensable 
requirement  for  achieving  sustainable  development. 
My  delegation  supports  poverty  eradication  as  the 
overarching  objective  of  the  post-2015  development 
agenda. But in order to achieve our goal, fast-tracking 
action  is  crucial.  Poverty  induces  lots  of  suffering 
among people. It is our obligation to end that situation 
of suffering quickly. Talking is not enough. Action that 
gets  resources  and  capacities  to  the  poor  is  a  moral 
obligation, and we must not allow such resources and 
capacities to get stuck in bureaucratic channels.
We must also ensure stability. Stability and peace 
are  crucial  for  achieving  our  worthy  development 
goals. Poverty is a form of instability. It is instability 
in  the  lives  of  the  poor;  it  is  instability  and  suffering 
in the lives of women and children; and it is instability 
that  moves  up  to  engulf  whole  societies.  That  is  so 
because  it  makes  it  easy  for  its  weaponization  and 
misappropriation, resulting in the infliction of greater 
harm and insecurity on a society.
We  believed  that  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) ensured the most energetic anti-poverty 
push in human history. However, although Africa had 
fast-growing  economies  when  the  MDGs  were  being 
implemented,  the  continent  lags  behind  in  poverty 
reduction  rates,  food  security,  maternal  and  infant 
mortality, fragility, environmental degradation, gender 
inequality  and  youth  unemployment.  That  is  why  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) should ensure a redoubling of efforts to achieve 
the yearnings that remained unfulfilled in the MDGs.
Sierra  Leone  had  a  weak  start  with  the  MDGs  in 
2000, emerging from a brutal civil war at the time. We 
had a mixed basket of outcomes. But this time around, 
we are determined to move on fast with actions. This is 
why we also see the SDGs as a recast of the country’s 
development  framework.  Our  agenda  for  prosperity 
and the SDGs are profoundly aligned. Sierra Leone was 
one of six African States among the 22 countries that 
were  voluntarily  reviewed  during  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  high-level  political  forum  in  July  this 
year. We shared our perspectives as to how we intend 
to implement the SDGs nationally, the challenges that 
we envisage as we move forward and how we wish to 
overcome them.
As we commence the second year of implementing 
the SDGs, it is imperative that we ensure “stateness”. 
We  must  ensure  that  quality  not  only  in  terms  of  the 
central  State,  but  also  the  local  state  and  the  State’s 
service-delivery functions. In Sierra Leone, recovering 
State functions was emphasized after the civil war in 
the 1990s. Our current post-Ebola recovery programme 
prioritizes  rebuilding  the  Government’s  delivery  of 
services  in  the  health,  agriculture,  education  and 
other sectors.
The Government of Sierra Leone is determined and 
committed  to  further  improving  peace  and  security. 
We  have  moved  from  a  country  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Security  Council  to  a  nation  that  is  a  storehouse  of 
26/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
lessons  on  how  to  successfully  move  away  from  war 
to  peace  and  development.  As  a  signatory  and  pilot 
country  of  the  New  Deal  for  Engagement  in  Fragile 
States, we pay great attention to domesticating SDG 16 
on promoting peaceful and inclusive societies.
Our  Government  is  keen  to  intensify  the  fight 
against  corruption  and  promote  good  governance, 
accountability  and 
transparency.  We  also  urge 
accountability  and  transparency  in  institutions  and 
mechanisms  to  support  African  countries.  As  we 
move ahead with the implementation of the SDGs that 
promote religious tolerance and coexistence as pillars 
of  stability  and  development,  we  have  all  seen  how 
entrepreneurs of conflict misappropriate the substance 
and  symbolism  of  religion.  We  must  engage  religious 
leaders and adherents. We must build on the resources 
for  tolerance  and  peace  that  exist  within  religious 
traditions  in  order  to  promote  stability,  peace  and 
security in Africa.
We  must  strengthen  partnerships  for  recognizing 
and  promoting  the  contribution  of  women  to  peace, 
stability and growth. As my delegation noted in another 
forum, Africa is a continent where for too long women’s 
contributions  to  peace,  democracy  and  development 
have  been  underemphasized  in  our  discussions.  That 
must  change.  We  must  acknowledge  that  women 
hold  up  half  the  sky  in  Africa.  We  believe  that  such 
an  acknowledgement  will  build  better  partnerships  to 
support women to hold up the skies in less tiring and 
painful ways.
We  urge 
that 
acknowledge youth as dignified, humane and productive 
forces  for  Africa’s  current  and  future  development. 
Africa  has  more  young  people  as  a  percentage  of  its 
population than any other continent. Acknowledging and 
promoting youth is Africa’s best chance for overcoming 
its  stability,  peace  and  development  challenges,  an 
effort that must be integral to our actions.
the  promotion  of  programmes 
We  must  also  acknowledge  the  threat  caused  by 
diseases  and  environmental  degradation  to  peace, 
stability and security. Sierra Leone and its neighbours 
teetered on the brink when Ebola struck. We defeated 
Ebola,  and  we  are  now  implementing  a  post-Ebola 
recovery  plan.  Success  with  that  programme  is  as 
important  as  the  peacekeeping  that  sustained  our 
peace  following  the  civil  war  of  the  1990s.  We  urge 
partnerships for resilient health-care systems in order 
to ensure stability, peace and development.
to  kill 
Malaria  continues  to  be  a  serious  health  concern 
for  the  continent.  It  is  unfortunate  that  the  disease, 
which  is  completely  preventable  and  treatable,  should 
continue 
thousands  of  people,  especially 
children, on our continent. We must therefore continue 
to closely cooperate in the global pursuit of the goals of 
the  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance  and  the  Action 
and Investment to Defeat Malaria 2016-2030, the latter 
as the successor to the Roll Back Malaria Partnership. 
It  is  in  that  regard  that  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
continued commitment of the international community 
to eradicating malaria and other diseases.
Sierra Leone contributes almost nothing to global 
warming,  but  we  are  adjudged  to  be  the  third  most 
vulnerable country to the effects of climate change. That 
is why for us climate change is an immediate existential 
threat. That is why we welcome the Paris Agreement on 
Climate  Change.  We  are  committed  to  implementing 
its  provisions  in  Sierra  Leone,  and  we  seek  increased 
global  action  on  implementing  the  provisions  of  the 
Agreement and other environmental protocols.
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  Sierra  Leone’s 
strongest support for NEPAD.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 2011(XX), of 11 October 1965, and decision 
56/475, of 15 August 2002, I now call on the observer 
of the African Union.
Mr. Mayaki (African Union): The African continent 
is demonstrating that it is capable of economic, political 
and  social  transformation.  As  the  technical  body  of 
the  African  Union,  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) mechanism is central to those 
transformative  efforts.  The  role  of  that  mechanism 
is  to  implement  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063: 
The  Africa  We  Want  in  a  manner  coherent  with  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The quality of 
that  implementation  will  depend  on  sound  ownership 
and sound partnerships.
The  year  2016  consolidated 
the  gains  made 
following the adoption of Agenda 2063 and its first 10-
year  implementation  plan,  for  the  period  2014-2023. 
That  strategic  framework  has  set  highly  ambitious 
targets  for  achieving  the  Africa  We  Want,  namely, 
a  continent  that  is  stable,  prosperous  and  at  peace 
with  itself.  Through  the  common  African  positions, 
the  Goals  set  out  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  have  been  aligned  with  Agenda  2063, 
creating productive synergies and opening strong areas 
16-32961
27/29
A/71/PV.28 
14/10/2016
for  collaborative  action.  Agenda  2063  is  an  effective 
vehicle  through  which  Africa  can  implement  the 
SDGs. In the light of that convergence, the continued 
support of the international community for pan-African 
institutions will be instrumental. That support should 
be  particularly  reinforced  as  regards  the  African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism,  Africa’s  leading  body  for 
governance improvement. The SDGs can succeed only 
if they succeed in Africa.
Infrastructure remains one of Africa’s top priorities. 
As  one  of  the  main  coordinators  of  the  Programme 
for  Infrastructure  Development  in  Africa  (PIDA),  we 
underscore  the  need  for  seeking  investments  from 
various sources for its implementation. To that end, we 
have set up a continental business network that allows 
for engagement among a network of high-level African 
policymakers and the private sector on a range of strategic 
issues  that  are  directed  at  promoting  investments  in 
regional and domestic infrastructure projects.
On  the  margins  of  the  opening  of  the  seventy-
first  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  NEPAD 
agency  concerned  held  a  dialogue  at  the  New  York 
Stock  Exchange  with  16  pension  funds  and  sovereign 
wealth funds, focusing on the roles of the private and 
public sectors in de-risking infrastructure development 
projects  identified  as  priorities  for  the  continent.  In 
order  to  improve  Africa’s  investment  attractiveness 
in 
launched  a 
transboundary  initiative  on  transport  and  logistics 
called  MoveAfrica  in  May  2016  in  Kigali,  Rwanda. 
That  continental  instrument  aims  to  drive  down 
costs  and  increase  logistical  efficiency  for  operators 
working  in  Africa,  thereby  complementing  PIDA  and 
the  programme  for  the  Presidential  Infrastructure 
Champion Initiative and the One Stop Border Posts and 
facilitating regional integration.
infrastructure  area,  we  also 
the 
Agriculture  and  rural  development  continue  to 
be  a  key  strategic  focus  for  NEPAD.  Following  the 
Malabo  Declaration  on  Accelerated  Agricultural 
Growth  and  Transformation  for  Shared  Prosperity 
and  Improved  Livelihoods,  we  revisited  the  support 
extended to countries and regions by opting for a more 
thematic  focus.  That  shift  was  informed  by  a  series 
of  country  reviews  aimed  at  promoting  the  design  of 
concrete agricultural transformation systems, based on 
ownership at the national level, making sure that small-
scale farmers are not left behind, particularly women.
NEPAD has also been instrumental in transferring 
the Grow Africa secretariat from the World Economic 
Forum  to  NEPAD  in  order  to  boost  agribusiness 
development  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
responsible investment in agriculture and food systems, 
as  defined  by  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
of the United Nations. Together with Japan, we jointly 
launched the Initiative for Food and Nutrition Security 
in  Africa.  The  Initiative  will  establish  a  framework 
for  collaboration  among  African  Governments  and 
partners  aimed  at  accelerating  the  implementation  of 
their food and nutrition security policies on the ground.
In preparation for the twenty-second Conference of 
the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change, to be held in Marrakesh, we plan to 
play a convening role as the secretariat to the African 
Ministers  Conference  on  the  Environment,  so  as  to 
further  implement  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  Two  issues  will  be  critical  for  Africa  in 
Marrakesh: agriculture and energy.
Science,  technology  and  innovation  are  at  the 
forefront  of  NEPAD’s  efforts  to  achieve  inclusive 
growth. We have bolstered our interventions in science, 
technology and innovation at the national, regional and 
continental  levels  with  the  main  goal  of  embedding 
those critical tools in our efforts to achieve the goals of 
Agenda 2063 and the SDGs. We are continuing to seek 
out pioneering approaches towards industrialization and 
have taken the lead by establishing the Kaizen-Africa 
Initiative, which aims to improve productivity, quality 
and competitiveness of the private sector in Africa.
Skills  development  and  employment  for  youth 
are  also  a  current  challenge  for  African  countries 
in  their  efforts  to  promote  economic  development, 
growth  and  social  stability.  The  lack  of  educational 
and  meaningful  economic  opportunities  forces  many 
young  people  to  search  for  a  more  prosperous  future 
elsewhere.  The  NEPAD  Agency,  under  the  African 
Union  Commission,  is  supported  by  Germany  in 
the  implementation  of  the  Technical  and  Vocational 
Education and Training Programme. That programme 
promotes the occupational prospects of young Africans 
through  the  support  of  innovative  skills-development 
programmes.  We  believe  in  attracting  young  people 
to the agriculture sector for sustained growth and job 
creation.  NEPAD,  through  its  Agriculture  Technical 
and  Vocational  Education  and  Training  programme, 
is  partnering  with  the  private  sector  to  offer  training 
along various stages of the agriculture value chains.
28/29 
16-32961
14/10/2016 
A/71/PV.28
Before  concluding,  allow  me  to  pay  tribute  to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  throughout  his 
tenure  championed  energy  through  his  initiative  on 
Sustainable Energy for All. NEPAD continues to work 
with strategic partners, such as Power Africa, to make 
that laudable initiative a reality.
(spoke in French)
We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  extend 
our warm congratulations to the new Secretary-General 
of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  António  Guterres,  on  his 
election. Similarly, I would like to congratulate Under-
Secretary-General  Maged  Abdelaziz,  the  Secretary-
General’s Special Adviser on Africa, for the efforts he 
has undertaken at the United Nations in order to ensure 
the  Organization’s  ongoing  interest  in  the  continent. 
The  great  success  of  Africa  Week  is  a  testament  to 
that interest. The African Union reaffirms that Africa 
is  prepared  to  define  its  own  fate,  in  partnership 
with  the  rest  of  the  world.  Regarding  the  universal 
implementation  of  the  SDGs,  Africa  will  focus  on 
pragmatism and partnership. Agenda 2063 will be the 
operational instrument to that end.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
16-32961
29/29
