United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
21st plenary meeting
Saturday, 23 September 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
responsibility 
We  share 
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Osman  Mohammed  Saleh,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr. Saleh (Eritrea): It is another year and another 
session of the General Assembly. We meet in the same 
Assembly Hall and deliver our addresses from the same 
rostrum,  yet  no  modicum  of  protocol  can  mask  the 
gaping divide in our ranks. We live in an increasingly 
fragile,  unjust  and  unequal  world.  A  small  minority 
holds the reins of power and wealth among nations and, 
for  the  most  part,  within  nations.  The  overwhelming 
majority of nations and their citizens are without power, 
without voice, without the means for a decent life, and 
often without peace and security. We may be called the 
United  Nations,  but  the  reality  is  that  we  are  divided 
nations and societies. 
Despite our deep divisions, however, our destinies 
are  intertwined  in  a  fundamental  way.  We  share  a 
common  home:  a  small  planet  in  a  vast  universe,  a 
tiny boat in a vast ocean. Whatever calamity happens 
anywhere in our world — epidemics, poverty, violence, 
mass  displacement,  war,  terror  —  it  will  eventually 
catch up with all of us.
the 
to  address 
the 
fundamental  problems  of  our  common  world. 
Certainly,  the  mighty  and  wealthy  should  shoulder 
bigger responsibility, as they command vast power and 
resources. It is only fair that more is asked of those to 
whom  much  has  been  given  —  or,  more  accurately, 
those who have appropriated much for themselves. We 
should  unflaggingly  remind  them  of  their  obligations 
and press them not for charity, but for enlightened self-
interest  that  understands  that  might  is  not  permanent 
and that only shared benefits are sustainable. 
We  would,  however,  be  gravely  mistaken  and 
would have forgotten the lessons of history if we pinned 
all  our  hopes  on  the  goodwill  of  those  who  currently 
enjoy  disproportionate  power,  wealth  and  influence. 
Power  does  not  readily  concede  its  privileges  of  its 
own accord. It resorts to deception, coercion, pressure, 
sanctions, violence and war to maintain and, if possible, 
increase its privileges. 
The  developing  countries  and  the  marginalized 
peoples  of  the  globe  stand  to  gain  most  from  a  more 
peaceful, secure, just and equal world. They owe it to 
themselves and to coming generations to build solidarity 
and  to  steadfastly  strive  and  work  and  innovate  for  a 
better world. It is their duty to ensure freedom, dignity 
and prosperity for their peoples.
Africa  remains  the  most  marginalized  of  all 
continents.  Undoubtedly, 
is  some  progress, 
more in some countries than in others. But talk of an 
African  Renaissance,  of  fastest-growing  economies, 
is  misplaced  and  premature.  We  should  not  flatter 
there 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29813 (E)
*1729813*
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
ourselves or allow others to flatter us. Africa remains 
a producer and small-bit exporter of primary products. 
It  retains  minimum  revenue  from  those  exports,  with 
foreign companies getting the lion’s share. Processing 
of  primary  products,  value  addition,  industrialization 
and  technology  development  barely  exist.  African 
economies,  physical 
infrastructure, 
institutional and governance structures, and peace and 
security architectures remain undeveloped. 
social 
and 
its 
infrastructure, 
the  quality  of 
Yet  Africa  boasts  tremendous  human  and  natural 
resources.  Indeed,  over  60  per  cent  of  global  natural 
resources  lie  in  Africa.  It  is  only  when  Africa’s 
economies, 
the 
standards  of  its  health  and  educational  institutions, 
the  level  of  its  artistic,  scientific  and  technological 
products,  the  effectiveness  of  its  institutions  and 
enterprises  and,  more  importantly,  the  quality  of  life 
of its citizens reflect more accurately its great potential 
that we can rightly speak of Africa taking its rightful 
place in the world. We should safeguard independence 
and sovereignty, fight ethnic polarization and rampant 
corruption,  chart  our  own  paths,  develop  bold  and 
imaginative  policies  that  suit  our  conditions,  rely 
mainly on our own resources and build an Africa that 
meets the aspirations of its people and makes valuable 
contributions to humankind.
Eritrea  is  a  young,  strategically  located  nation 
with significant human and natural resources. It joined 
the  community  of  independent  nations  a  quarter  of  a 
century ago by dint of its people’s 30-year struggle for 
freedom and self-determination, fought and won against 
tremendous  odds.  As  an  independent  nation,  it  has 
faced the full brunt of an unfair and unjust international 
order. It has faced demonization, ostracism, sanctions 
and  armed  aggression,  and  that  sustained  external 
hostility  caused  much  harm  to  Eritrea  and  its  people. 
It slowed down Eritrea’s progress, but it was not able 
to stop it. It could not shake the resolve of the Eritrean 
people  and  their  Government.  Eritrea  was  severely 
tested  but  emerged  intact,  more  determined,  more 
experienced and in many ways stronger. It is peaceful, 
stable, secure and harmonious: a haven of stability in a 
turbulent neighbourhood.
Eritrea is, quietly and without fanfare, engaged in 
comprehensive nation-building. It is pursuing policies 
and  taking  concrete  measures  to  strengthen  the  unity 
and  harmony  of  its  people,  fostering  their  political 
participation and unleashing their energies and talents. 
It  is  laying  the  groundwork  for  broad-based  and 
sustainable economic development. It is putting modern 
infrastructure  in  place,  step  by  step.  It  is  working  to 
ensure that all its citizens get good access to nutritious 
food,  clean  water,  electricity,  shelter, 
transport, 
communications, health care and educational services, 
as well as cultural, sports and recreational facilities.
Eritrea has also embarked on a massive water and 
soil  conservation  programme  and  an  afforestation 
programme  as  part  of  its  comprehensive  plan  to 
enhance  the  environment  and  fight  climate  change. 
Eritrea  is  confident  that  it  will  meet  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  ahead  of  time.  In  its  ambitious 
development  programme,  Eritrea  avoids  dependency 
and  relies  first  and  foremost  on  its  people  and  on  its 
domestic  resources.  At  the  same  time,  it  welcomes 
and  encourages  cooperation  and  partnership,  with  a 
focus  on  trade  and  investment.  Eritrea  also  seeks  to 
make  a  modest  contribution  to  peace,  stability  and 
cooperation in its wider region, which includes the Nile 
basin,  the  Horn  of  Africa,  the  Red  Sea  basin  and  the 
Gulf. It has successfully fought and continues to fight 
radicalization, extremism and terrorism both on its own 
and in cooperation with its neighbours.
Eritrea extends its hands of friendship and solidarity 
to  all  peoples  and  nations  who  strive  to  build  their 
countries and contribute to a fairer, more just and more 
equal world. Eritrea takes the initiative to engage with 
all countries, including those who differ with it. Eritrea 
strongly  believes  that  its  political,  economic,  social 
and  diplomatic  path  would  be  smoother  and  easier  if 
the external obstacles that have been on its path were 
removed. It therefore once again calls on the Security 
Council to lift the unfair and unjust sanctions imposed 
on it for the past nine years. There is no justification 
for them to continue, and they do not serve any useful 
purpose.
Another  obstacle  facing  Eritrea  —  indeed,  facing 
the whole Horn of Africa region — is the 15-year-old 
occupation of sovereign Eritrean territory by Ethiopia. 
Eritrea  calls  on  the  Security  Council  to  ensure  the 
end of that flagrant violation of international law and 
several United Nations resolutions.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Yldiz Pollack-Beighle, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Suriname.
Ms.  Pollack-Beighle  (Suriname):  On  behalf  of 
His Excellency Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Suriname,  I  wish  to  extend  our 
2/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
congratulations to Mr. Lajčák on his election to preside 
over the General Assembly. Suriname is grateful to the 
former  President,  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  for  his  efforts 
in addressing the issues of small and vulnerable States 
within the small island developing States construct, and 
we wish him success in his new role as Special Envoy 
of the Secretary-General on Oceans.
Allow  me  to  address  critical  issues  related  to  the 
theme of this year’s session that are directly related to 
Suriname and the region we belong to. 
Suriname  cannot  but  give  special  attention  to  the 
extraordinary  fashion  in  which  the  annual  hurricane 
season  has  presented  itself  in  the  Caribbean.  Our 
thoughts  go  out  to  the  many  families,  mothers  and 
children,  the  elderly  and  the  sick  who  are  living  the 
worst possible nightmare. We are convinced that those 
affected will be comforted by the hope that all is not 
lost, since the world community stands with them and 
prays  for  the  betterment  and  speedy  recovery  of  our 
region. We also acknowledge the suffering in Mexico 
as a result of the recent heavy earthquakes and express 
our deep sympathy for its victims.
Those  events  confront  us  with  the  relativity  of 
human  power  and  State  power,  whether  unilateral  or 
multilateral. A quick review of the damage caused by 
the  recent  natural  disasters  shows  the  destruction  of 
the  means  of  production  and  physical  infrastructure. 
That has created social disruption that goes far beyond 
the  immediate  needs  of  the  victimized  societies.  We 
also  observe  that  the  world  at  large  demonstrates  a 
strong  sense  of  solidarity  when  calamity  strikes  and 
humanitarian assistance is urgently needed. However, 
to alleviate the desperate condition of the peoples, we 
must, in our international efforts, address the calamities 
from a deeper and wider perspective.
and 
socioeconomic 
We  must  assist 
restructuring 
the  respective  Governments 
in 
physical 
infrastructure  in  such  a  way  that  those  States  can 
become  more  resilient  and  reduce  their  vulnerability 
in  future.  That  will  require  the  development  of 
innovative  concepts  and  intensive  sharing  of  global 
experiences. Combining forces on the global scale has 
become crucial. Furthermore, it will imply aggressive 
mobilization of adequate resources. 
Such  necessary  resource  mobilization  will  face 
obstacles.  We  will  have  to  confront  the  fact  that  a 
number of the more affluent nations entertain inward-
looking  policies  that  do  not  augur  well  regarding  the 
pressing need to join hands in solving such truly global 
problems.  Recent  weeks  have  made  it  very  clear  to 
all of us that the forces of nature do not discriminate. 
Suriname  strongly  supports  the  view  that  nations 
should proportionately contribute at a global level if we 
want to survive as humankind. 
When  scientists  indicate  precise  and  foreseeable 
natural  disasters,  it  is  obvious  that  we  should  take 
precautionary  measures,  mitigate  possible  dangers 
and  adapt  existing  structures  to  minimize  the  effect. 
Becoming  more  resilient  remains  the  only  way.  In 
that  connection,  it  is  unacceptable  that  Caribbean 
countries, including Suriname, are being graduated to 
middle-income  countries,  with  zero  option  to  obtain 
concessional loans.
Today, I, too lament the fact that the vulnerability 
of those countries should be taken into account when 
classifications  are  applied.  Thus,  it  is  ironic  that 
Suriname  is  facing  such  threats  of  climate  change, 
while  at  the  same  time  we  are  making  tremendous 
contributions  to  mitigate  climate  change.  As  a  high-
forested,  low-deforestation  country  with  90  per  cent 
forest  cover  —  the  highest  in  the  world  —  Suriname 
provides  regulation  services  to  the  global  climate, 
including as a carbon sink.
In addition to providing livelihoods to indigenous 
and  tribal  communities,  our  forests  are  biodiversity 
hotspots  with  an  impressive  number  of  endemic  and 
internationally  significant  species.  Our  forests  also 
support  freshwater  regulation  as  part  of  the  unique 
Amazon  ecosystem  and  provide  employment  and 
income  generation  through  an  active  forest  industry. 
Above all, we have set aside for conservation purposes 
1.6  million  hectares  of  pristine  rainforest,  referred  to 
as  the  Central  Suriname  Nature  Reserve,  as  a  gift  to 
humankind.
While Suriname’s greenhouse-gas emissions have 
historically been negative, it is a challenge to enhance 
the country’s economic development while maintaining 
that unique position in the world. To achieve that goal, 
Suriname  is  ready  to  partner  with  Governments,  the 
global community and other stakeholders to transform 
our  economy 
in  which  environmental 
protection  — 
the  REDD+ 
programme for reducing emissions from deforestation 
and  degradation  in  developing  countries  —  social 
advancement  and  economic  prosperity  take  central 
stage.  Our  multi-annual  development  plan,  recently 
into  one 
including 
through 
17-29813
3/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
adopted by Parliament, is testimony to that vision for 
our nation’s sustainable development.
On 
of 
the 
issues 
non-interference 
and 
non-intervention,  I  draw  the  Assembly‘s  attention 
to  the  following.  The  natural  disasters  I  just  referred 
to  coincide  with  growing  political  conflicts,  and  that 
may well lead to a serious loss of human lives and the 
destruction of human achievements. A number of those 
conflicts are related to a stark disrespect for the basic 
principles  that  have  been  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations since 1945.
Non-interference in the affairs of sovereign States 
and non-intervention are not empty principles. They are 
based on a firm belief that all peoples are equal and that 
the prevailing structures of government and democracy 
cannot  be  prescribed  externally.  Recent  interventions 
in  the  Middle  East  have  not  created  better  societies. 
On  the  contrary,  we  have  witnessed  divided,  warring 
factions that can hardly be qualified as an improvement 
to the Governments that were ousted.
Suriname  also  has  experienced  the  ill  effects  of 
interference  in  internal  affairs.  The  destruction  of 
infrastructure  and  means  of  production  amounted  to 
approximately $300 million, and much worse than that 
is the fact that hundreds of children were deprived of 
access to education and proper health care. Today as a 
nation we are still suffering from the results of the so-
called  foreign-supported  internal  strife  that  disrupted 
societies  in  the  interior  that  were  characterized  by  a 
socioeconomic order that had lasted for more than 300 
years.
Suriname knows what interference means, and the 
only way we have dealt with it is by insisting on dialogue, 
which resulted in the signing of the peace treaty in May 
1992. So when we tell the world that non-interference 
and non-intervention are principles to adhere to at all 
costs,  we  are  speaking  from  our  own  experience.  For 
almost three decades, Suriname’s commitment to peace 
and development through the promotion of dialogue and 
the implementation of broad-based social programmes 
remained  in  full  accordance  with  the  principles  and 
guidelines of the United Nations. Dialogue in the spirit 
of mutual respect has led to peace and prosperity.
In  that  same  vein,  in  2012  the  legislature  passed 
an amendment to the amnesty law of 1992 that applied 
amnesty  for  the  full  period  of  political  violence 
in  Suriname,  from  1980  to  1992.  In  doing  so,  the 
legislature complied with article 8 of the Constitution, 
which bans discrimination and guarantees equal rights 
to  all  citizens.  That  amendment  further  provided  for 
the truth and reconciliation commission, allowing for a 
clear distinction between politically motivated violence 
and criminal acts.
Allow me to inform this gathering that Suriname’s 
path to peace and sustainable development enjoyed full 
acceptance in 2015, when a greater majority elected the 
incumbent  Government.  Moreover,  civil  society  has 
taken up the responsibility to advance the peace process 
through the implementation of initiatives that contribute 
to the cause of truth-finding and reconciliation. 
Against  the  backdrop  of  those  developments, 
Suriname  took  note  with  concern  of  the  unverified 
and biased comments published by the United Nations 
Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and 
lawyers. Therefore, Suriname categorically rejects the 
assertions  of  that  special  procedures  mandate-holder, 
who did not provide the Government an opportunity to 
respond in a timely manner.
The seventy-first session of the General Assembly 
marked  a  milestone  in  the  way  the  world  views  the 
five-decades-old  unilateral  economic,  commercial 
and financial boycott against Cuba. Last year, not one 
State  voted  against  resolution  71/5,  on  definitively 
ending  that  unilateral  decision,  which  has  proved  to 
be unproductive from all angles. However, the current 
reality  obliges  us  to  continue  expressing  our  deepest 
concern, since we learned about the continuation of that 
detrimental and unilateral policy. Suriname therefore, 
with absolute respect for the sovereignty of each nation 
to  determine  its  own  policies,  urges  that  constructive 
dialogue and cooperation must prevail and that bridges 
must  be  built  on  the  basis  of  equality  and  respect  for 
independence and sovereignty.
law, 
Suriname 
rejects  any  measure 
the  sovereignty  of  States, 
that  might 
strengthen  the  blockade,  which  is  in  violation  of 
international 
the 
principles  of  non-intervention  in  internal  affairs  and 
self-determination.  My  Government  reiterates 
the 
critical importance of those principles and underscores 
the relevance of the processes of dialogue, diplomacy, 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts,  and  political  and 
economic cooperation as building blocks for stability, 
peace and democracy in the Americas.
In that line of thought, we encourage the Member 
States  in  general,  and  especially  the  South  American 
and Caribbean States, to deal in a constructive manner 
4/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
with  the  problems  of  our  sister  nation,  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela.  Let  us  continue  to  stress  the 
need  for  dialogue  between  all  parties.  History  proves 
that interference and intervention are never successful.
Suriname  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  current 
developments  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  In  whatever 
configuration  for  a  sustainable  solution,  we  believe 
that  the  interests  of  the  Korean  people  must  remain 
paramount. First and foremost, the Korean people must 
be given guarantees that violence, whether it originates 
in North Korea or elsewhere, can never be a solution to 
the problem. Dialogue and negotiations will be the only 
remaining road to a sustainable solution for the dignity 
and well-being of the Korean people in their struggle for 
peace and development. The example of South America 
and the Caribbean in remaining a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone could well serve as a model to be followed. The 
absence  of  nuclear  weapons  creates  an  environment 
conducive to dialogue and meaningful negotiations. 
cultures 
and 
The  global  village 
is  becoming  ever  more 
interdependent.  Different 
ethnic 
orientations  are  rapidly  becoming  the  basis  for  racial 
and  global  conflicts.  Therefore,  we  have  to  find  new 
paradigms  to  effectively  limit  dogmatic  adherence  to 
religious  and  social  concepts.  Tolerance  and  mutual 
respect  have  become  a  must  if  we  want  to  guarantee 
peace and sustainability for future generations.
The Government of Suriname is following, not only 
with keen interest but also a certain degree of concern, 
the  recent  re-emergence  in  many  parts  of  the  world 
of  right-wing  extremism  framed  as  populism.  That 
development has the potential to put severe pressure on 
social cohesion within countries and bilateral relations 
between  nations,  thereby  affecting  opportunities  and 
the potential for cooperation.
Suriname has worked tirelessly to achieve national 
unity,  which  has  resulted  in  a  very  diverse  and  well-
integrated society where tolerance forms one of the basic 
principles that underpins its very existence. Thanks to 
the  type  of  nation  we  have  built,  very  disturbing  and 
destabilizing  factors  such  as  right-wing  extremism 
and  ethnic  and  religious  intolerance  can  neither  have 
nor  find  a  place  in  our  nation,  nor  will  they  ever  be 
able to take root and grow. Today, Suriname enjoys an 
exceptional  era  of  tolerance  and  mutual  respect,  with 
Christians, Hindus, Jews, Muslims and other religious 
denominations  living  in  an  atmosphere  of  peace  and 
mutual  respect.  With  roots  from  all  continents  of  the 
world  and  through  intensive  dialogue  and  mutual 
respect, Suriname has become a shining example of the 
importance of not entertaining supremacist concepts.
Therefore, 
the  Government  of  Suriname 
is 
considered  best  positioned  to  understand  and  analyse 
the current global trend, which needs to be reversed with 
immediate  effect.  Suriname  stands  ready  to  share  its 
experience and best practices with other sister nations 
on  the  issue  of  nation-building  based  on  diversity, 
pluralism, integration and peace. I am convinced that 
others will then be able to better understand one of the 
important mottos of Suriname — diversity is power.
My Government strongly believes that focusing on 
people is the quintessence of the application of power. 
Suriname is an example in kind. As a nation, we have 
recently  faced  the  ill  effects  of  a  largely  commodity-
based  export  economy.  The  sharp  downturn  in  oil 
and  gold  prices  in  recent  years,  combined  with 
the  unfortunate  closure  of  the  century-old  bauxite 
and  alumina  complex,  has  challenged  Suriname’s 
macroeconomic management since mid-2015.
By any international standards, Suriname faced a 
severe shock that was compounded on the balance-of-
payments side by the sharp increase in imports related 
to  two  major  investment  projects  in  oil  and  gold 
mining, which together accounted for about 35 per cent 
of annual gross domestic product. We estimate that the 
economy contracted severely, by more than 10 per cent, 
in 2016, requiring unprecedented fiscal and monetary 
policy  adjustments,  and  some  temporary  balance-of-
payments support. 
In  order  to  stabilize  the  exchange  rate,  reduce 
domestic demand and re-establish a viable balance of 
payments  position,  the  monetary  authorities  sharply 
curtailed credit creation in the country, with credit to 
the private sector contracting in nominal terms. Since 
October 2016, the exchange rate has stabilized, monthly 
inflation  rates  have  fallen  to  less  than  1  per  cent  and 
the country has returned to a current account surplus 
position. Our macroeconomic response to the external 
and fiscal pressures started in earnest in August 2015 
with a massive contraction in Government expenditure 
and increases in taxation. 
The Government acknowledges that the extractive 
sector producing gold, fossil fuels and other marketable 
minerals  will  remain  critical  for  our  economic 
development in the foreseeable future. We accept that 
reality, being fully aware that the wealth created must 
17-29813
5/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
be  deployed  in  financing  a  well-planned  initiative  to 
expand  our  economy  in  a  sustainable  manner.  With 
that  objective  in  mind,  the  Government  has  recently 
adopted  very  important  legislative  measures.  One 
deals  with  the  establishment  of  a  sovereign  wealth 
and  stabilization  fund,  and  the  other  introduces  the 
institutional  framework  which  will  facilitate  foreign 
direct  investments.  As  outlined  in  our  multi-annual 
development plan, Suriname intends to strike a balance 
between  the  export  of  commodities  and  the  export  of 
final products in sync with the services industry.
Suriname  acknowledges  its  citizens  as  the  most 
important resource for its development. In spite of the 
challenging  budgetary  constraints,  the  socioeconomic 
policies of the Government remained people-oriented. 
The continued application of the basic health-care law 
provides for proper health care for our entire population. 
In addition, as announced by President Bouterse and as 
part of the social contract, adequate housing, access to 
education, youth participation, engagement and sports 
development,  job  creation  and  care  for  persons  with 
disabilities and the elderly have remained priorities for 
sustainable development and growth.
The  message  delivered  by  Secretary-General 
António Guterres assured us all of his commitment to 
the  theme  of  the  Assembly’s  seventy-second  session. 
Suriname pledges its full support and cooperation.
The 
implementation  of 
the  ambitious  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, in sync with the 
necessary  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  will  carry  a 
lot of weight. That will be a formidable challenge, and 
therefore  my  Government  believes  that  in  addition  to 
the  mobilization  domestic  resources,  consideration 
must be given to accessible financing, from a wide array 
of  financial  mechanisms,  for  development,  capacity-
building, innovation and the transfer of technology for 
developing countries.
Having addressed those matters of vital importance 
for  the  survival  of  humankind,  on  the  basis  of  the 
principles  of  the  United  Nations,  we  bring  to  mind 
the Amerindian saying that we have not inherited the 
Earth, but that we have the Earth on loan from future 
generations. It is up to us to give that wise saying its 
substance.
In  the  final  analysis,  I  wish  to  underscore  and 
reiterate  the  utmost  importance  of  youth  involvement 
and participation at the highest levels. My Government 
has made it a priority to create the conditions for youth 
to  be  part  of  decision-making  processes.  I  refer  to 
young people, among others, as innovators, members of 
parliament and cabinet and as chief executive officers 
within what we refer to as the youth-adult partnership. 
In 2010, our Government established a special ministry 
responsible for youth and sport development. It gives me 
pleasure to announce that this year youth representatives 
are part of my official delegation to this seventy-second 
session.  Furthermore,  it  is  through  political  will  that 
more women in our society can accede to the highest 
echelons of political decision-making.
The 2030 Agenda envisages a world that guarantees 
all inhabitants of our planet a climate conducive to self-
development, a climate of respect for human dignity and 
of  tolerance  towards  other  cultures,  with  the  ultimate 
goal of giving our planet the gift of diversity based on 
mutual respect.
It is up to each one of us, regardless of our status 
in society; it is up to each nation, whether big or small; 
it  is  up  to  this  multilateral  Organization  to  focus  on 
people and strive for peace and a decent live for all on a 
sustainable planet. We owe it to ourselves; yes, we owe 
it to this and coming generations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ibrahim Ahmed Abd al-Aziz Ghandour, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the the Republic of the Sudan.
Mr.  Ghandour  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is 
my pleasure to speak on behalf of the people and the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  to  wish  us 
all  success  at  this  year’s  General  Assembly  session.  I 
express  my  heartfelt  congratulations  to  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  current  session,  His 
Excellency Miroslav Lajčák, and wish him success in 
his  endeavours.  In  addition,  I  would  like  to  express 
my  appreciation  of  the  wisdom  and  efficiency  of  his 
predecessor, Mr. Peter Thomson, who steered the work 
of the seventy-first session. 
The theme of the seventy-second session — “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on a sustainable planet” — reflects the importance the 
United  Nations  attaches  to  the  implementation  of  its 
pillars:  peace  and  security,  sustainable  development, 
and human rights. It also proves that the United Nations 
is  committed  to  anchoring  the  concept  of  peace, 
prosperity and good livelihood for everyone. Those are 
the hopes and ambitions that we all that seek in order 
to achieve sustainable development, fight poverty in all 
this forms and achieve prosperity for future generations.
6/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
 The Sudan looks forward to playing an effective 
role  in  the  United  Nations,  alognside  the  rest  of  the 
international  community,  in  order  to  achieve  the 
necessary reform, respond to Africa’s needs regarding 
reform of the security Council, promote the development 
role of the United Nations, implement the internationally 
agreed Agenda for Sustainable Development and fight 
against the politicization of justice.
 As part of the national dialogue initiative led by 
our President, Mr. Omar Hassan Al-Bashir, in 2014 a 
Government  of  National  Unity  was  established  with 
the broad participation of various political components 
and  previously  armed  groups  to  promote  peace  and 
security in the country. The implementation of the exit 
strategy for the African Union-United Nations Hybrid 
Operation  in  Darfur,  pursuant  to  Security  Council 
resolution  2363  (2017),  proves  that  the  Sudan  has 
turned the page on conflict and has embarked on a new 
era of peace and stability. We would like to express our 
thanks and appreciation for the support of the United 
Nations, the African Union, the League of Arab States, 
the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and brotherly 
and friendly countries.
  We  hope  to  receive  the  support  of  peace  and 
development  funds,  especially  the  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  as  well  as  from  the  World  Bank 
and  its  mechanisms,  so  that  we  can  implement  the 
Government’s  approach,  which  promotes  peace  and 
implements  the  outcomes  of  the  national  dialogue. 
That  approach  will  also  urge  the  remaining  armed 
groups  to  join  the  quest  for  peace.  That  is  why  our 
President adopted resolution 479 on 1 July, expanding 
the  ceasefire  everywhere  until  the  end  of  October, 
even  though  some  of  those  rebel  groups  pursue  their 
irresponsible  practices,  destabilizing  Darfur  as  they 
carry out desperate military actions in May. Attempted 
attacks  by  those  groups  in  Libya  and  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan were futile and failed. 
We express our deep concern vis-à-vis the lack of 
strict action by relevant United Nations entities and the 
international community against the rebel groups that 
have been working as mercenaries in Libya and South 
Sudan. That only tempts them to refuse any engagement 
in  the  peace  process  and  comes  at  the  time  when  the 
Government of the Sudan is waiting for those groups to 
implement the peace road map agreement sponsored by 
the African Union and supported by the international 
community.
 With regard to the cooperation of the Government 
of the Sudan with the United Nations and the Security 
Council, we have welcomed the Panel of Experts of the 
Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to 
resolution 1591 (2005) three times in the past. The Panel 
visited all states of Darfur, and its reports commended 
the  cooperation  of  my  Government  and  emphasized 
that  Darfur  has  recovered  stability  and  security. 
That is why we stress the importance of adopting the 
recommendation of the Committee Chair to review the 
sanctions  of  resolution  1591  (2005),  so  as  to  support 
peace in Darfur and the region.
 The Sudan has always defended the principles of 
justice and international cooperation. We have sought 
to implement them, especially the principle of fighting 
impunity.  However,  the  politicization  of  international 
justice,  as  is  the  case  with  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  has  jeopardized  its  political  weight.  It  has 
disappointed  the  international  community,  especially 
the  African  community,  which  had  great  hopes  that 
that  Criminal  Court  would  anchor  the  principles  of 
international criminal justice. 
Sudan’s  position  vis-à-vis  the  Court,  which  is 
expressed  in  the  position  of  the  African  Union  in 
its  summit  decisions,  stresses  that  the  International 
Criminal  Court  is  an  organ  that  manipulates  the  law 
for political objectives to be imposed against the will of 
people, especially African people. The Court, therefore, 
cannot  serve  the  purpose  of  justice.  For  that  reason 
the Sudan calls for heeding the African voice. We call 
upon the States of the world to anchor the principles of 
justice without allowing international justice to become 
a political tool used by some. We also warn against the 
use of the United Nations in the name of international 
justice,  on  the  basis  of  the  cooperation  agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court, in a way that tarnishes the reputation 
of  the  United  Nations  and  involves  it  in  international 
political conflicts. We will continue to fight any attempt 
to involve the Court in the United Nations system, and 
we call upon all lovers of justice in the world to follow 
suit.
My Government has spared no effort to fight human 
trafficking, illicit migration, electronic crime and drug 
trafficking to ensure sustainable comfort and stability 
at the international, regional and national levels. That 
comes from the fact that the Sudan enjoys a geographic 
position in the middle of the African continent, linking 
it  to  the  rest  of  the  continent  and  to  the  Middle  East. 
17-29813
7/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
Those efforts include effective and active involvement 
in the European Union-Horn of Africa Migration Route 
Initiative  —  the  Khartoum  Process  —  to  address  the 
causes and repercussions of illicit migration in the Horn 
of Africa, in addition to other cooperation frameworks.
As  for  refugees,  the  Sudan  hosts  some  3  million 
from  neighbouring  countries,  and  other  countries 
as  well.  We  have  provided  great  assistance  to  those 
refugees, meeting more than 80 per cent of their needs 
at a time when the international community meets only 
20 per cent of that need. We do that even though half 
of  the  refugees  live  outside  of  camps,  which  places 
pressure  on  the  services  we  provide  to  our  citizens 
because of difficult economic circumstances. 
I would like to note the recent visit of Mr. Filippo 
Grandi,  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees,  to  the  Sudan  in  mid-August,  where  he  met 
the President of the Republic and many other officials, 
including  myself.  He  addressed  the  situation  of  the 
refugees in the Sudan and expressed great appreciation 
for  the  role  the  Sudan  has  been  playing  on  behalf  of 
the international community in providing care for the 
refugees.  He  also  commended  the  Sudan  for  opening 
its borders at a time when other countries are closing 
theirs. He called upon the international community to 
provide  further  support  to  the  Sudan  as  it  shoulders 
its  responsibility  vis-à-vis  refugees,  and  he  called  for 
supporting host countries and State institutions caring 
for the refugees. That is something the Sudan values, 
and we look forward to hearing the deliberations in the 
General Assembly around that issue. 
the 
The Sudan has received a daily influx of refugees, 
especially  from  South  Sudan,  almost  2,000  persons  a 
day at some checkpoints. In connection with the special 
relations  between  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  and 
the  shared  connections  between  the  two  peoples  and 
countries,  my  delegation  stresses  its  full  commitment 
to  efforts  with  international  and  regional  partners, 
especially 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development and the African Union, to achieve peace 
and stability in South Sudan. We will also continue our 
great efforts to address the humanitarian crisis caused 
by the conflict in South Sudan. My delegation renews 
its  commitment  to  the  full  implementation  of  the 
agreements signed with South Sudan on 27 September 
2012  and  all  agreements  signed  between  the  two 
countries to build a bright future for the two brotherly 
peoples. 
The Sudan stresses our principled position to fight 
the use of terrorism in all its forms, including violent 
extremism, as a means to achieve political objectives. 
We  are  committed  to  all  international  and  regional 
agreements and conventions that we have ratified, and 
we have always been an active party at the international, 
regional  and  bilateral  levels.  The  contributions  of  the 
Sudan have had a great positive impact in fighting that 
phenomenon  and  preventing  further  terrorist  attacks 
through information-sharing and the good relations our 
institutions  have  with  our  international  and  regional 
counterparts. 
At the national level, in March 2016 we announced 
our first special field study on the causes of terrorism 
and the means of fighting it in the Sudan, in cooperation 
with the United Nations. The study was commended by 
the many countries that attended and took part in the 
announcement of the study. We continue our efforts in 
cooperation with the relevant United Nations organs to 
ensure that the Sudanese strategy is coherent with the 
United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
  The  Sudan  was  able  to  fulfil  all  of  its  technical 
commitments in order to obtain foreign debt forgiveness 
after the separation of South Sudan, through the work 
of  the  Tripartite  Committee  for  the  Joint  Approach 
to  the  International  Community  on  Economic  Relief, 
composed  of  the  Sudan,  South  Sudan  and  the  high-
level  African  mechanism,  on  the  basis  of  the  zero 
option  on  apportionment  debt,  which  was  extended 
recently  until  October  2018.  We  have  also  adopted  a 
road map to engage with debtors and the international 
community  after  fulfilling  all  technical  conditions  to 
obtain  forgiveness  in  line  with  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor Countries Initiative. However, that has yet to be 
achieved. 
Foreign  debt  is  a  great  hurdle  and  a  genuine 
burden for heavily indebted poor countries, thwarting 
their  stability  and  sustainable  development.  Debt 
affects and negatively impacts their relations with the 
international  and  regional  financing  institutions  and 
foreign  investments.  Therefore  we  stress  the  need  for 
forgiveness in line with the Initiative. 
The  Sudan  has  been  making  great  efforts  to 
provide  fresh  drinking  water  through  the  President’s 
Zero Thirst programme. We believe in the importance 
of  water.  Therefore,  we  have  made  great  efforts  and 
taken  many  initiatives  to  promote  cooperation  among 
the  Nile  basin  countries.  We  hope  that  those  efforts 
8/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
succeed  in  achieving  sustainable  development.  To 
stress  the  pioneering  role  of  the  Sudan  in  addressing 
issues of regional development and the environment, in 
the  upcoming  months  we  will  host  the  African  Great 
Green Wall Summit. The Great Green Wall is one of the 
greatest regional environmental cooperation projects. It 
stretches from Dakar in the west to Djibouti in the east, 
to achieve environmental balance in the African desert 
and  to  reduce  the  impact  of  climate  change.  Africa 
will be the main victim of climate change if this is not 
averted. 
The  Sudan  stresses  its  firm  position  with  regard 
to preserving the nuclear non-proliferation regime and 
destroying all weapons of mass destruction. That is the 
only guarantee to prevent the use of those weapons and 
the  only  way  to  anchor  peace,  stability  and  security 
in  the  world.  In  that  connection,  we  renew  our  full 
commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons. We call upon all countries that have 
not yet signed the Treaty to do so without any delay.
We  renew  our  firm  position  with  respect  to 
the  Palestinian  question.  We  condemn  all  forms  of 
aggression  against  religious  shrines 
in  Palestine, 
especially  against 
the  holy  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif. 
The  only  way  forward  towards  peace  in  the  Middle 
East  is  through  the  implementation  of  resolutions  of 
international  legitimacy  and  the  two-State  solution, 
returning to the borders of 4 June 1967, in line with the 
Arab Peace Initiative.
We  renew  our  firm  position 
in  support  of 
constitutional  legitimacy  in  Yemen.  We  call  upon  all 
political stakeholders to engage in the political process, 
reject fighting and violence and return to legitimacy.
My  delegation  stresses  the  need  to  preserve 
territorial  integrity  in  Syria.  We  support  all  efforts 
to  overcome  the  crisis  in  that  country  and  highlight 
the importance of a political solution and the need to 
respect the will of this great people. 
Once  again,  we  emphasize  the  need  to  ensure 
stability in brotherly Somalia. We call for the provision 
of  all  forms  of  support  to  the  Government  and  the 
people of that country so as to enable them to overcome 
their challenges and build legitimate institutions. 
With regard to the situation in Libya, our position 
has  never  changed.  We  continue  to  work  with  the 
international  community  to  ensure  the  success  of  all 
initiatives  for  security  and  stability,  especially  the 
Skhirat  Agreement,  which  is  the  cornerstone  of  a 
political solution in brotherly Libya. We stress our full 
respect for the security, freedom and integrity of Libya 
as well as the prosperity of its people.
My delegation stresses the importance of achieving 
stability  and  sustainable  development  on  the  African 
continent  and  addressing  the  economic  and  security 
challenges that thwart its development, particularly the 
situations in the Lake Chad Basin, the Great Lakes region 
and Mali. In this regard, we call upon the international 
community to support regional initiatives to overcome 
these  challenges,  such  as  the  Force  conjointe  du  G5 
Sahel and the Lake Chad Basin region initiatives. We 
also call for the promotion of the strategic partnership 
between the United Nations and the African Union in 
order to achieve peace and stability and implement the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
In  conclusion,  we  renew  our  commitment  to 
multilateralism  under  the  leadership  of  the  United 
Nations with a view to promoting the two most noble 
of  purposes  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations: 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and 
promoting the prosperity of all people. We stand in full 
solidarity  with  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Guterres, 
and support his reform agenda.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. John M. Silk, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Mr.  Silk  (Marshall  Islands):  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Marshall  Islands,  I  have  the  honour  to  convey  warm 
greetings  to  the  General  Assembly.  I  congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second  session.  I  am  proud  that  his  predecessor  from 
the  Pacific,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  will 
continue his service to the United Nations as the Special 
Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Ocean.
I  also  extend  the  condolences  of  my  Government 
for  the  destruction  and  tragic  loss  resulting  from  the 
recent disasters in Mexico, the United States, Antigua 
and Barbuda, Cuba, Haiti, the Bahamas, Dominica and 
the territories of the United States and British Virgin 
Islands, Puerto Rico, St. Barthélemy, Anguilla, Turks 
and Caicos and other islands. 
The United Nations stands strong as the only place 
that all of us in the world have to confront our darkest 
17-29813
9/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
challenges together. Even if the present moment appears 
uncertain, we must all remain confident and committed 
to ensuring that the Organization will speak for those 
who might not otherwise have their voices heard.
Recent events with regard to North Korea and its 
growing nuclear threat must serve as a clear mandate 
for  strong,  urgent  global  cooperation  and  effective 
action.  The  Marshall  Islands  is  a  small  island  nation 
in  the  Pacific,  and  we  wish  only  peace,  security  and 
stability  for  the  world.  We  cannot  ignore  this  sudden 
and obvious threat to the territory of Guam, our closest 
neighbour, friend and home to some of our citizens. The 
threat  posed  to  Guam  is  a  threat  to  the  wider  Pacific 
Islands  region,  and  we  express  our  concern  about  the 
challenges these actions have posed to peace, security 
and cooperation across the wider Pacific Rim.
The  highest  levels  of  the  Government  of  the 
Marshall  Islands  vociferously  condemn  the  nuclear 
test  of  3  September  and  related  actions.  There  is  no 
need  for  debate:  these  actions  are  clear  violations  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  seriously  challenge 
the  international  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
regime  based  on  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  I  am  appalled  that  the  Marshall 
Islands,  of  all  countries,  is  again  facing  the  very  real 
threat  of  an  atmospheric  nuclear  test  over  the  Pacific 
Ocean.
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  condemns 
these  test  efforts  not  just  for  its  own  security,  but 
because  we  know  the  impacts  first-hand.  The  67 
nuclear  tests  conducted  in  my  country  between  1946 
and 1958 have produced a burdensome legacy that we 
hope no other nation or people will ever have to bear. 
These  tests  were  conducted  when  my  country  was 
under  the  tutelage  of  the  United  Nations  Trusteeship 
Council, which was charged with our welfare and well-
being. When the Marshallese leaders travelled to New 
York  to  present  two  petitions  to  urgently  halt  nuclear 
tests in 1954 and 1956, the United Nations responded 
with  Trusteeship  Council  resolutions  1082  (XIV)  and 
1493  (XVII),  which  are  the  only  times  any  United 
Nations organ has ever specifically authorized nuclear 
tests. The consequences of this ignorance were — and 
are — beyond horrific.
Our  people  and  environment  have  suffered  as  no 
other people should. The impacts of this legacy today 
remain stark and present challenges, passed from one 
generation to the next: from mother to daughter, father 
to son. This is why, in 2012, the United Nations Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  implications  for  human  rights  of 
the  environmentally  sound  management  and  disposal 
of  hazardous  substances  and  waste  outlined  the  clear 
human  rights  implications  and  responsibilities  which 
we  affirm.  I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
statement to the Chair of the Pacific Island Forum on 
14 August 2016, in which he said that
“finding a solution to this issue is critical for the 
future of the Republic of the Marshall Islands”, 
assuring us that relevant United Nations entities stand 
ready to respond to requests for assistance.
Recent  events  should  be  creating  far  greater 
political resolve to curb and ultimately eliminate global 
nuclear  threats.  In  this  regard,  the  Republic  of  the 
Marshall  Islands  supports  those  nations  that  are  now 
able to accede to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons in so doing, and we will continue to add our 
own voice in all forums, including in the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization and the Review 
and Extension Conferences of the Parties to the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 
We  are  committed  to  a  closed  and  inclusive 
examination  of  our  own  participation  in  the  Nuclear-
Ban  Treaty  by  listening  closely  to  our  stakeholders 
and affected citizens, taking into account any possible 
implications for our common security relations. It will 
always  remain  our  fervent  hope  that  such  weapons 
of  mass  destruction  shall  never  again  be  tested  or 
unleashed  upon  the  world  and  that  all  nuclear-armed 
nations will find the necessary political will to disarm.
Earlier this year, my country experienced the tragic 
loss of our one-time Minister and climate ambassador, 
Mr. Tony de Brum, and I wish to express my gratitude 
to 
their  condolences. 
Ambassador  de  Brum  once  said  that  for  the  Marshall 
Islands, 
those  who  have  conveyed 
“[w]e are suffering the result of climate change and 
of the nuclear legacy and we have had nothing to do 
with either... In either case, people have to choose 
to end this world, this universe. You can either do 
it  slowly  with  climate  change,  or  you  can  press  a 
button and blow it up. And neither is justified”.
Just  across  from  the  United  Nations,  in  the  East 
River, there sits Belmont Island. It is a small, raggedy 
little outcrop only 1 metre tall. This island in New York 
must now serve as a reminder for the world’s diplomats 
10/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
that if they ever see it vanish beneath the rising sea, then 
they  must  also  know  that  they  have  lost  the  Marshall 
Islands in the Pacific. 
Climate  change  is  real,  and  no  credible  scientist 
could ever make it otherwise. But what we see with our 
own eyes, in our low-lying islands, reveals a real present 
and growing threat to our own survival and security as a 
nation and as a State Member of the United Nations. We 
welcome the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, 
which stands as a truly robust, ambitious and long-term 
agreement. We must not allow our confidence in each 
other to be thrown off by road bumps in the short term. 
We  urge  the  ratification  of  and  full  participation 
in  the  Kigali  Amendment  to  the  Montreal  Protocol, 
which  is  the  legacy  of  the  personal  drive  of  the  late 
Minister-in-Assistance to the President of the Marshall 
Islands,  Mr.  Mattlan  Zackhras,  who  suddenly  and 
tragically passed away last month. At the end of a long 
night of negotiations last year, the late Minister said that 
when the Amendment was adopted he would be proud 
to  call  on  all  Marshallese  children  because  he  knew 
that the Kigali Amendment could mean the difference 
between whether they would have a country — and a 
future — or not. 
We strongly support the leadership of our Pacific 
island  neighbour,  Fiji,  as  the  incoming  President  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  and  we 
hope that in its care and with its leadership, the parties 
will adopt a strong set of rules. The Paris Agreement 
is  only  as  strong  as  the  political  confidence  that 
stands  behind  it.  It  is  beyond  imperative  that,  even 
in  such  early  moments,  committed  nations  start  the 
challenging task of pushing ourselves to do even more. 
Even with our limited resources, the Marshall Islands 
is committed not only to implementing the Agreement, 
but also to exploring where our own action on energy 
can be strengthened. We must match our own ambitions 
with respect to emissions with stronger approaches and 
closer bilateral work. 
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  strongly 
agrees  with  the  widespread  call  from  the  large  and 
growing chorus of our fellow Member States for a more 
effective  and  efficient  United  Nations.  It  is  beyond 
necessary.  We  support  the  Secretary-General  taking 
action  under  his  own  authority  to  continue  to  initiate 
practical but powerful efforts to reduce duplication and 
improve  delivery.  It  is  a  question  not  only  of  the  use 
of  public  funds,  including  our  own,  but  also  of  all  of 
us  improving  our  ability  to  achieve  our  full  potential 
and  making  clear  progress  in  the  attainment  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We cannot do it 
alone, and we cannot do itwith an international architect 
that, however good its intentions, has frequently lost the 
focus needed to help us make the connections between 
international forums and our local communities.
Before  we  engage  in  an  impossible  fight  over 
resources,  we  must  first  examine  the  use  of  our 
resources  already  at  hand.  Our  small  in-country 
team  often  struggles  with  gaining  access  to  seasoned 
international staff who can help us learn to navigate the 
system. The United Nations Development Programme 
Resident Coordinator for the Marshall Islands actually 
resides in another nation nearly 3,000 kilometres away. 
Our  Resident  Coordinator,  who  is  fully  dedicated  to 
her  mission,  is  also  charged  with  being  a  coordinator 
for eight other remote island nations, one of which she 
is a resident of. We must re-examine the management 
decisions that led to such an outcome. Without stronger 
focus  from  the  United  Nations  system,  small  island 
developing  States  could  face  serious  barriers  to  their 
ability to implement the SDGs. 
The  Ocean  Conference  on  the  implementation 
of  SDG  14,  which  took  place  last  June,  stands  as  a 
watershed  moment  of  political  will.  But  the  good 
words  uttered  in  those  forums  too  often  fall  short 
when it comes to making global and regional decisions 
on  oceans  and  fisheries.  The  Pacific  small  island 
developing States have sounded the alarm on the state 
of  the  world’s  oceans,  which  everyone  has  heard,  but 
perhaps the alarm is not loud enough. As parties to the 
narrow agreement and beyond, we in the Pacific have 
the potential to effect a profound change in the role of 
the market in order to dramatically strengthen our own 
economic  trajectory  and  boost  global  food  security 
along the way. The United Nations system itself must 
do  far  more  to  help  us  focus  on  these  transformative 
opportunities. And even if some of our partners are still 
slow to rise with us, the marketplace is already leading 
the way. 
What the Pacific region is doing for tuna by ensuring 
our participation while promoting sustainable practices, 
we are also doing with the wider oceans. Increasingly 
our  political  partners  will  come  to  realize  that  our 
political support depends not just on the pressure they 
apply, but on how willing they are to follow our lead on 
sustainable oceans and fisheries issues. While it may be 
17-29813
11/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
our own Pacific economic and environmental survival 
at stake, it is also a great incentive for the rest of the 
world to know that two thirds of our planet’s surface is 
no longer in peril. 
that 
No  one  is  to  be  left  behind  when  it  comes  to  the 
SDGs or to complying with the Charter of the United 
Nations.  Therefore,  we  should  consider 
the 
exclusion  of  Taiwan  from  the  United  Nations  and  its 
related agencies has created major challenges for both 
the Government and the people of Taiwan in the pursuit 
of their fundamental right to participate. As is the case 
for  my  nation,  Taiwan  is  an  indispensable  partner  for 
the  international  community,  including  for  our  own 
receipt of humanitarian aid, medical assistance, disease 
prevention,  environmental  protection,  anti-terrorism 
and 
Practical 
approaches  could  allow  us  to  work  through  existing 
controversies in order to achieve the global benefits of 
universal  participation,  including  in  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization, 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
World Health Organization.
transnational-crime 
prevention. 
Security  Council  resolution  2758  (1971)  has  been 
misused  to  justify  the  people  of  Taiwan’s  exclusion 
from  the  United  Nations.  As  a  result,  we  are  missing 
an important opportunity to cooperate with a proactive 
contributor to peace and the common global good. The 
United Nations, I believe, can and must do better.
In conclusion, these may be trying times, and the 
challenges  of  the  world  are  severe,  but  it  is  in  such 
adversity  that  true  character  is  defined.  And  if  an 
effective United Nations was ever truly needed, it is now. 
We  must  look  outward  to  embrace  the  community  of 
nations rather than look inward at our own self-interest 
to  the  detriment  of  others.  Multilateral  engagement 
must be our guiding light as we move towards a more 
effective and efficient United Nations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Yousuf  bin  Alawi  bin  Abdallah,  Minister 
Responsible  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Sultanate  of 
Oman.
Mr.  Abdallah  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Lajčák  and  his  friendly  country,  the  Slovak 
Republic,  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at 
its  seventy-second  session.  We  are 
confident  that  his  vast  experience  and  competence  in 
the  political  realm  will  enable  him  to  steer  the  work 
of this session to a successful conclusion. We are also 
pleased to express our appreciation for his predecessor, 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson  of  the  Republic  of  Fiji,  whose 
efforts during his presidency of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-first session were commendable.
It is an equal pleasure to congratulate Mr. António 
Guterres on his appointment as Secretary-General, and 
we wish him every success in his noble tasks. We assure 
him of the Sultanate of Oman’s readiness to cooperate 
with  him  and  all  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  to  achieve  the  Organization’s  lofty  goals  and 
objectives,  above  all  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.
Earlier  civilizations  flourished  in  parallel  with 
humankind’s belief in divine books, which created a set 
of  values  and  principles  for  cooperation,  coexistence, 
knowledge  and  scientific  exchange,  inter  alia.  We 
believe  that  religious  and  cultural  heritage,  along 
with  the  values  of  civilizations,  enrich  and  enhance 
our  understanding  of  peace.  We  should  therefore  not 
overlook such a heritage since it is an important means 
for disseminating the culture of peace and coexistence 
throughout the world.
In  our  foreign  policy  and  international  relations, 
we  have  adopted  an  approach  that  supports  peace, 
coexistence, tolerance, dialogue and close cooperation 
among all nations and peoples. The Sultanate of Oman 
is  also  committed  to  the  principles  of  righteousness, 
justice,  equality,  non-interference 
internal 
affairs of other countries, and the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes,  based  on  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and the rules of international law. 
This  perspective  boosts  confidence,  enhances  mutual 
respect for the sovereignty of States and promotes good-
neighbourliness in a way that enables States to maintain 
security, stability and prosperity. Accordingly, we call 
upon  all  States  to  support  peace  efforts  and  to  join 
hands to spread peace as a global culture at all levels.
the 
in 
Peace  and  dialogue  are  of  vital  importance  for 
humankind.  They  are  a  collective  responsibility.  The 
United  Nations  is  vested  with  the  responsibility  to 
lead the effort to foster them. However, the support of 
the  international  community  is  also  needed  to  pursue 
national and international interests, but this cannot be 
achieved  without  giving  the  United  Nations  a  strong 
role in protecting the world from conflicts and war.
Political and economic conflicts represent a failure 
of the international community to lend support for the 
12/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
least developed countries, leading to many conflicts and 
problems, including transcontinental global migration, 
the spread of chaos, upheavals, troubles and instability 
in  many  parts  of  the  world.  The  economic  slowdown 
and  the  decrease  in  global  trade  have  exacerbated 
these problems, especially in the developing countries, 
which  have  been  negatively  affected  by  World  Trade 
Organization  (WTO)  agreements.  The  WTO  has  had 
limited ability in achieving its primary goal of building 
developing  States’  international  trade  capacities.  We 
believe that the drive of some parties to gain a larger 
share of global markets or to implement isolationist and 
protectionist policies aggravates problems and increase 
tensions throughout the world. 
Accordingly, we deem it highly important that the 
international community adopt a new vision that would 
lead  to  greater  justice  and  expand  common  interests, 
while  helping  developing  nations  attain  higher  levels 
of sustainable development. This could be achieved if 
Member States adhered to the principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations and avoided unilateral decisions 
or  policies.  The  United  Nations  must  once  again  take 
the lead in the path towards peace. Its agencies should 
play a more active role in the development process in 
order to achieve sustainable development.
From  this  rostrum,  we  call  on  all  States  to  exert 
greater efforts and cooperate to help the United Nations 
restore  its  pivotal  role  in  international  relations.  We 
also look towards a more vital role for the Secretary-
General in the fulfilment of the purposes and principles 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  support  the  Secretary-
General in his efforts to strengthen and reactivate the 
role of the Organization in bringing international peace 
and security to the world.
We  also  call  upon  the  international  community 
to,  in  a  spirit  of  responsibility  and  credibility,  spread 
the  culture  of  dialogue  and  understanding  in  order 
to  peacefully  settle  disputes  and  end  tensions  in  the 
world. We consider it essential to discover the causes 
of weakness in international policies and adopt a more 
effective approach to settling regional and international 
problems,  including  climate  change  and  other  issues 
that affect the security and stability in the world. On this 
basis, we invite the United Nations and the international 
community to shoulder their responsibilities and strive 
to achieve peace, prevent conflicts and wars, and settle 
differences through dialogue and other peaceful means. 
Accordingly, my country renews its readiness to work 
with  the  United  Nations  to  build  a  new  world  that  is 
secure and stable.
The  world  is  witnessing  new  transformations 
in  the  scientific  and  technological  realms  that  are 
affecting people’s lives. There is also a steady growth 
in  population.  Therefore,  we  stress  the  need  to  adopt 
a  new  perspective  to  establish  a  global  partnership 
that  would  benefit  from  such  advanced  technologies 
and  scientific  progress.  The  global  breakthrough  in 
technology  achieved  through  the  signing  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  is  an  important  gain 
for humankind. Several natural disasters recently have 
struck the world, which should convince all States that 
it is in their interest to adhere to the Paris Agreement.
The Final Document of the 2010 Review Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons indicated that the resolution adopted 
at  the  1995  Review  and  Extension  Conference  on  a 
the  establishment  of  a  zone  in  the  Middle  East  free 
of  nuclear  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
remains  in  force  until  it  achieves  all  its  objectives. 
In  that  regard,  my  country  supports  all  international 
efforts to draft a binding instrument that would cover 
the  loopholes  emerging  from  the  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty. This highly important document would help the 
international community to eliminate weapons of mass 
destruction. 
My country denounces terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations,  regardless  of  its  justifications.  Based 
on our adherence to the Charter of the United Nations, 
which calls for the maintenance of international peace 
and security, we support all efforts aimed at confronting 
that  scourge  by  taking  the  appropriate  measures 
based  on  the  relevant  Arab,  Islamic  and  international 
resolutions, treaties and agreements.
The  world  is  facing  real  challenges  that  must  be 
countered  through  a  unified  stance  so  as  to  respond 
to the aspirations of humankind. We therefore believe 
that  working  on  the  basis  of  the  true  meaning  of 
partnership  and  common  destiny  among  members  of 
the  international  community  is  the  most  appropriate 
means  to  achieve  such  a  goal.  We  wish  the  General 
Assembly every success at this session.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Denis Moses, Minister for Foreign and CARICOM 
Affairs of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
17-29813
13/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
Mr. Moses (Trinidad and Tobago): Each year, as a 
community of nations, we gather together to reaffirm 
the possibilities and potential arising from our resolve 
that  finding  solutions  to  the  many  challenges  facing 
our planet can best be achieved through our collective 
action  and  shared  dialogue  and  by  striving  for  peace 
and a decent life for all peoples.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  I  am  honoured 
and delighted to address the Assembly today. I extend 
heartfelt congratulations to Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second session. We are confident that he will 
discharge his mandate with efficiency and impartiality 
for the benefit of all nations. He has the support of our 
delegation.
I also seize this opportunity to convey thanks and 
best  wishes  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson, 
former President of the General Assembly, for his hard 
work, commitment and leadership during the seventy-
first session. 
Once  again,  I  extend  congratulations  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his  assumption 
of  the  position  of  Secretary-General.  We  wish  to 
encourage and commend his direction and guidance in 
steering us forward.
From shifting weather patterns to global warming to 
sea-level rise, the impacts of climate change are global 
in scope and unprecedented in scale. In our region, we 
have  witnessed  the  catastrophic  effects  of  Hurricanes 
Irma, Jose and Maria, which have undoubtedly changed 
forever  lives  in  several  of  our  Caribbean  countries, 
leaving some islands almost uninhabitable and resulting 
in  many  untimely  deaths.  The  recent  earthquake  in 
Mexico and hurricanes in the United States ought to be 
counted within the realm of the recent global disasters.
Trinidad and Tobago, which is in the southernmost 
part of the Caribbean, was spared from the ravages of 
these  hurricanes.  It  is  with  empathy  that  I  extend,  on 
behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  heartfelt  condolences  to  our  Caribbean 
family. We are forever mindful that, given our spirit of 
resilience, we will rebuild that which was lost. Trinidad 
and  Tobago  stands  in  solidarity  with  the  affected 
countries and will continue to assist with relief efforts. 
However, rebuilding will require resources, as well as 
the  cooperation  and  collaboration  of  the  international 
community, because we simply cannot do it alone.
The  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  joins 
with  other  Caribbean  Community  Governments  in 
expressing our gratitude for the tremendous generosity 
and support provided in face of the region’s most urgent 
need.  Our  thanks  and  appreciation  also  go  out  to  the 
Caribbean  Disaster  Emergency  Management  Agency 
(CDEMA),  the  region’s  first  responder.  However, 
CDEMA  will  need  additional  resources  and  funding 
to enable it to do even more to facilitate its immediate 
responses to natural disaster.
In the face of the recent natural catastrophes, how 
can one deny the scientific findings that climate change 
is real and that it is here and indeed upon us? The events 
of the past months in the Caribbean remind us all once 
more that small island developing States (SIDS) remain 
at  the  forefront  of  the  impact  of  climate  change.  We 
cannot by any means continue with the same approach, 
as nature’s fury holds no prejudice. Yet, in the light of 
their  categorization  as  high-income  countries  under 
the  outdated  formula  of  gross  domestic  product  per 
capita, Caribbean countries will not qualify for aid and 
development assistance in their time of need.
I  join  my  Caribbean  colleagues  in  calling  for  a 
multidimensional approach that takes into consideration 
real  national  needs  and  priorities  and  takes  these 
extraordinary  circumstances  into  account  in  order  to 
provide access to development assistance, aid and debt 
relief  as  the  Caribbean  region  collectively  embarks 
together on the arduous task of recovery, rehabilitation 
and reconstruction.
In  order  to  achieve  human  and  global  sustainable 
development, we must treat unmitigated climate change 
and global temperature rise as a priority issue. Trinidad 
and  Tobago  is  doing  its  part  and  remains  committed 
to  achieving  the  overarching  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Through 
our  nationally  determined  contribution,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago  has  indicated  its  intention  to  reduce  by 
December 2030 greenhouse-gas emissions in its public-
transportation  sector  by  30  per  cent,  in  comparison 
with 2013 levels.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  therefore  framed  its 
national  development  plan  for  the  period  2016-2030, 
entitled Vision 2030, with a thematic focus of “Many 
hearts,  many  voices,  one  vision”,  in  keeping  with  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  In  this 
context,  we  have  mapped  our  national  development 
14/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
goals  in  accordance  with  global  priorities  and  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  Trinidad 
and  Tobago  and 
the 
Multi-country Sustainable Development Framework in 
April. We acknowledge and thank the United Nations 
Development Programme for its assistance with these 
activities.
the  United  Nations  signed 
We  are  also  pleased  that  the  recently  completed 
quadrennial comprehensive policy review has initiated 
a  recalibration  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system.  This  would  better 
support  developing 
countries, including SIDS, in the implementation of the 
programmes of action, including the SIDS Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  and  the 
2030  Agenda.  In  alignment  with  the  quadrennial 
comprehensive  policy  review  and 
the  Secretary-
General’s  reform  proposals,  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
remains committed to ensuring that the United Nations 
development system adopts a more flexible and tailored 
approach  to  sustainable  development  assistance  to 
assist countries in implementing the SDGs in a focused, 
coordinated, coherent and cost-effective manner.
Oceans cover three quarters of the Earth’s surface 
and  contain  more  than  95  per  cent  of  the  Earth’s 
water.  It  is  therefore  indisputable  that  promoting  the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  oceans,  seas  and 
marine resources is of critical importance to sustainable 
development  and  the  survival  of  all  humankind. 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  welcomes  the  progress  achieved 
at  the  recently  concluded  Oceans  Conference  in  June 
and the adoption of the historic call for action, as well 
as the commitments and actions to be taken by Member 
States to safeguard the health of the oceans through the 
implementation of SDG 14.
the  adoption  of 
As  a  small  island  developing  State,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  is  highly  vulnerable  to  the  unprecedented 
rate of loss of marine biodiversity and the impacts of 
unsustainable  practices  on  the  marine  environment. 
Consequently,  we  welcome 
the 
recommendations  of 
the  Preparatory  Committee 
established  pursuant  to  resolution  69/292,  on  the 
development of a legally binding instrument under the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction. Notably, 
this agreement will seek to address existing regulatory 
and  legal  gaps  and  ensure  that  the  resources  of  our 
oceans  are  properly  conserved  and  managed  for  the 
benefit of present and future generations
After 
two  years  of  having 
the  Preparatory 
Committee  and  about  10  years  of  negotiations,  we 
believe that the time is long overdue for us to translate 
words into action. Trinidad and Tobago therefore looks 
forward  to  the  convening  of  an  intergovernmental 
conference  in  2018  to  consider  the  recommendations 
of the Preparatory Committee on the elements and to 
elaborate  the  text  of  an  international  legally  binding 
instrument under the Convention.
The Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago protects 
the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  all 
citizens and residents without discrimination based on 
race,  origin,  colour,  religion  or  sex.  Our  Government 
accords high priority to achieving gender equality and 
the empowerment and advancement of women, who are 
pivotal to the achievement of the SDGs. In the words 
of the Secretary-General, “Women’s rights are indeed 
human rights”. One cannot overstate the importance of 
protecting the rights of women and ensuring their full 
participation on an equal basis with men.
In placing women at the forefront of our development, 
it should be noted that a Trinidad and Tobago national 
is  one  of  two  women  who  sit  on  the  Commission  on 
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  which  comprises 
20 members. With regard to the advancement of girls, 
the Parliament of Trinidad and Tobago recently passed 
the Miscellaneous Provisions (Marriage) Bill. This bill 
provides for outlawing child marriage in Trinidad and 
Tobago by raising the legal age of marriage to 18 years.
We are currently witnessing unprecedented levels 
of displacement in the world. According to the United 
Nations High Commission for Refugees, approximately 
65.5  million  people  have  been  forced  to  flee  their 
homes. This amounts to nearly 22.5 million refugees. 
The  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  considers 
it  important  to  develop  ways  to  effectively  manage 
migration and to take the necessary steps to enable the 
process of mainstreaming migration into development 
planning.  We  have  therefore  sought  to  make  the 
necessary policy changes and to participate in projects 
and training in order to develop the necessary tools to 
mainstream migration into development planning.
Trinidad and Tobago was among the 122 States that 
voted in favour of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons, which was adopted on 7 July. The Treaty is 
particularly  significant  as  it  is  the  first  multilateral 
legally binding instrument for nuclear disarmament to 
have been negotiated in 20 years. We look forward to 
17-29813
15/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
the convening of the high-level conference on nuclear 
disarmament  by  2018.  As  a  small  island  developing 
State, Trinidad and Tobago actively participated in the 
negotiations to prohibit nuclear weapons, as it is acutely 
aware of the destructive force of these weapons of mass 
destruction to, inter alia, human life, the environment, 
food security, infrastructure and economic growth.
In  view  of  the  continued  prevalence  and  negative 
effects  of  illegal  small  arms  and  light  weapons, 
including  the  issue  of  curbing  such  weapons  and  its 
ammunition,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  played  leading 
roles  in  a  number  of  United  Nations  initiatives,  such 
as  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  The  proliferation  of  small 
arms and light weapons has contributed significantly to 
violence and instability in our region. The Arms Trade 
Treaty remains a key priority for Trinidad and Tobago 
as it seeks to regulate the illegal transfer of small arms 
and light weapons and ammunition.
I wish to reiterate to the Assembly the Government 
of Trinidad and Tobago’s unequivocal commitment and 
unceasing call for an end to the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba.  We  remain 
optimistic  that  there  will  be  a  diplomatic  solution  to 
finding an end to this long-standing issue and that in 
good  faith  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  against  Cuba,  which  significantly 
challenges its achievement of sustainable development, 
will be lifted soon.
We  remain  fully  committed  to  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and in 
particular to the principles of the sovereign equality of 
States,  non-intervention  and  non-interference  in  their 
internal  affairs  and  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation. 
To this end, Trinidad and Tobago consistently supports 
subregional,  regional  and 
to 
promote  constructive  dialogue  to  bring  about  the 
cessation,  sooner  rather  than  later,  of  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba.
international  efforts 
Adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  is  important  to  the 
achievement  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  16, 
which seeks to promote the rule of law at the national 
and international levels and to ensure equal access to 
justice for all, as it is one of the pillars for promoting 
sustainable development.
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  as  a  democratic  society, 
adheres to the rule of law and the protection of all human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. As such, we uphold 
the  importance  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) to promoting the rule of law, encouraging respect 
for human rights and achieving sustainable peace and 
development, in accordance with international law and 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
As  a  country  which  has  been  credited  as  one  of  the 
forefathers of the ICC through the pioneering work of 
the late Arthur N. R. Robinson, former Prime Minister 
and  President  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  we  remain 
resolute in our commitment to supporting the mandate 
of the ICC and its primary objective to help put an end 
to  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  the  international  community,  as 
well as to prevent such heinous crimes.
increasing  humanitarian  challenges, 
In conclusion, Trinidad and Tobago is particularly 
pleased  with  the  President’s  choice  of  theme  for  the 
seventy-second session, “Focusing on people: Striving 
for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet”.  We  believe  that  these  concerns  and  issues 
are  timely  and  necessary,  especially  as  we  are  faced 
with 
threats 
to  international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  the 
environment.  In  harmony  with  the  global  vision  for 
multilateralism, we are committed to working together 
collectively to find enduring and sustainable solutions to 
global disparities, poverty, rising inequality, protracted 
conflicts and other challenges facing the world today. 
We must all do our part in this noble endeavour for the 
good of humankind.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Brahim Hisseine Taha, Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
African  Integration  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Chad.
Mr.  Mahamat  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 
me to extend my warm congratulations to Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  and  to  assure 
him of our cooperation as he carries out his important 
mission. I would also like to express our appreciation 
to Mr. Peter Thomson, who led the work of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session  with  talent  and 
discernment.
A  decade  ago  in  the  Assembly,  we  deplored  the 
emergence  of  various  global  crises,  in  particular 
financial  ones  and  their  adverse  consequences  on  the 
world  economy.  Even  today,  developing  countries, 
including my own, continue to suffer the consequences 
of the fall in the prices of our exports. This situation 
16/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
negatively  impacts  the  financing  of  our  countries’ 
development plans and strategies.
Humankind  is  also  called  upon  to  address  new 
kinds of conflicts, such as those related to the challenges 
of  terrorism,  whose  growing  tentacles  threaten  our 
stability and further impoverish our economies. Equally 
important  are  the  challenges  related  to  climatic  and 
environmental hazards, whose damaging consequences 
have  been  demonstrated  in  the  recent  landslide  in 
Sierra  Leone,  the  onslaught  of  the  hurricanes  in  the 
Caribbean and the United States, and the earthquake in 
Mexico. We take the opportunity to express, from this 
rostrum, our solidarity with the bereaved Governments 
and families in the various affected countries.
Moreover, the ongoing phenomena of drought and 
desertification weaken our ecosystems, in particular the 
drying  up  of  Lake  Chad,  causing  massive  population 
displacements  and  increasing  pressure  on  the  already 
limited  resources  of  our  countries.  Its  foreseeable 
disappearance  would  be  a  disaster  for  the  50  million 
human  beings  who  live  off  the  resources  that  Lake 
Chad provides. The letter and spirit of the theme of our 
current session and the commitments contained in the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change should encourage 
the international community to save Lake Chad.
tirelessly  built  on 
The  economic  and  financial  crisis  affecting 
developing  countries  is  undermining  the  efficient 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  which  was 
the 
achievements  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Its adoption in 2015 gave rise to a great deal of hope 
because it is supposed to reverse the growth of poverty 
and promote development. However, with the persistence 
of the economic crisis, recurring threats to peace and 
security,  the  appearance  of  cyclical  pandemics  and 
the increase in the phenomenon of migration, we fear 
that these scourges will have a negative impact on the 
implementation of the Agenda.
In 
this  difficult  economic  context, 
in  early 
September  in  Paris  Chad  organized  a  round  table  to 
finance  its  national  development  plan.  We  take  this 
opportunity to thank all those who contributed to the 
success  of  the  round  table.  We  hope  that  the  pledges 
made on that occasion will be fulfilled.
At the political level, Chad intends to consolidate 
its  institutions  and  strengthen  the  democratic  process 
by  renewing  its  institutional  framework.  With  this 
in  mind,  next  October,  in  line  with  the  social  project 
of  President  of  the  Republic  of  Chad,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno,  Chad  will  convene  a  national 
forum  on  the  institutional  reforms  charged  with 
adapting the administrative and political structures to 
the country’s new realities.
In addition to the difficult economic context, we in 
the subregion of the Sahel and the Sahara face particular 
security  and  humanitarian  challenges.  Indeed,  the 
security situation in the countries of the Sahel and the 
Sahara continues to deteriorate as a result of the actions 
of terrorists, armed groups and traffickers of all stripes 
throughout  the  region.  Recent  attacks  by  terrorists 
in  the  capital  of  Burkina  Faso  and  against  the  forces 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali, as well as almost daily 
attacks  in  north-eastern  Nigeria  and  the  far  north  of 
Cameroon,  show  their  determination  to  wage  war 
against us to the end.
This  resurgence  of  terrorist  attacks  challenges  us 
and compels us to respond. This is why the countries of 
the Group of Five for the Sahel (G-5 Sahel), following 
the example of the Multinational Joint Task Force, have 
established the G-5 Sahel Joint Force in the Lake Chad 
basin to fight the Da’esh-affiliated terrorist group Boko 
Haram.
In Mali, as in the Lake Chad basin, my country is 
committed and has made enormous human, material and 
financial sacrifices. This commitment — undertaken by 
the President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Idriss 
Deby  Itno,  with  the  support  of  all  Chadians  —  will 
endure because the collective security of the region and 
beyond is at stake. We must therefore consolidate our 
means of response if we want to counter this evil. 
The  multifaceted  support  of  the  international 
community,  and  in  particular  of  our  Organization,  is 
indispensable. We recognize the primary responsibility 
of the United Nations in the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security.  Chad  supports  its  peacekeeping 
operations throughout the world. Therefore, there is no 
question  of  our  replacing  the  other  forces  engaged  in 
Mali.  The  G-5  Sahel  Joint  Force  is  a  complementary 
entity  whose  objective  is  to  respond  appropriately  to 
the  asymmetrical  and  unconventional  warfare  waged 
by  terrorists  and  traffickers  of  all  kinds.  It  is  for  this 
reason  that  we  call  upon  the  United  Nations,  and  in 
particular  the  Security  Council,  to  grant  a  robust 
mandate to ensure that the Joint Force has sustainable 
resources to carry out its tasks.
17-29813
17/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
The  humanitarian  situation  is  exacerbated  by  the 
particularly difficult security situation in our subregion, 
which is reflected in large-scale humanitarian crises, the 
massive  displacement  of  people,  famine,  malnutrition 
and  epidemics.  For  the  past  several  decades,  my 
country has welcomed more than 600,000 refugees and 
displaced  persons  fleeing  conflicts  in  neighbouring 
countries, as well as returnees and internally displaced 
persons following the conflicts in Libya and the Central 
African Republic.
The current global situation and the persistence of 
hotbeds of tension in Chad are a source of serious concern 
for  my  country.  While  we  recognize  the  sustained 
support of all our partners for the humanitarian problem 
in  Chad,  we  call  on  the  international  community  to 
make  greater  efforts  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  the 
host populations, refugees and displaced persons.
One of the consequences of economic difficulties 
and unrest is the massive migration of young Africans 
to  other  places,  particularly  Europe.  That  is  an 
unbearable phenomenon, considering the conditions of 
travel and residence in certain countries of transit and 
reception. That is why Chad, which is a transit country 
for migrants, is consulting with its various partners to 
address the root causes of the phenomenon and calls for 
massive investment in the development programmes in 
the countries of origin of migrants in order to put a stop 
to the loss of human resources.
The humanitarian situation can be resolved only if 
the outbreaks of conflict in the neighbouring countries 
of  Chad  are  resolved.  That  is  why  the  Chadian 
Government is very attentive to those conflicts and will 
continue to work with the international community to 
put an end to them. The violence in the Central African 
Republic continues. Chad welcomes the steps taken by 
President  Touadera  and  his  Government  to  assert  the 
presence  and  authority  of  the  State.  He  has  urged  all 
armed  factions  to  commit  themselves  without  delay 
to  the  peace  process.  We  believe  that  the  African 
Initiative  for  Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  the  Central 
African Republic is the opportunity that all parties to 
the conflict should seize in order to restore peace and 
security in that brotherly country. 
Regarding the situation in Libya, Chad gives its full 
support to the United Nations and the African Union in 
the search for reconciliation among the various Libyan 
parties.  But  the  solution  to  the  crisis  is  in  the  hands 
of the Libyan political actors themselves, who have the 
historical  responsibility  to  meet  the  expectations  of 
their people. 
South  Sudan  is  like  a  wound  on  the  body  of  our 
continent.  Here  too,  the  protagonists  have  a  moral 
obligation  to  put  an  end  to  the  intolerable  suffering 
of  the  people.  The  international  community  should 
support the revitalization of the August 2015 agreement 
and the national dialogue.
At  the  international  level,  Chad  welcomed  the 
resumption of diplomatic relations between the United 
States and Cuba. There is no longer any obstacle to the 
normalization  of  relations  between  the  two  countries. 
My  country  believes,  therefore,  that  maintaining  the 
decades-long  embargo  against  Cuba  is  unfair  and 
counterproductive. 
The  Palestinian  question  remains  a  fundamental 
issue, with evident repercussions on other crises. Thus 
a just and acceptable solution must be found, one that 
includes the peaceful coexistence of the two States of 
Israel  and  Palestine.  Therefore,  Chad  will  support  all 
efforts aimed at the recognition of the State of Palestine 
in all its aspects and on the basis of the 1967 borders.
The  world  has  been  facing  an  unacceptable  crisis 
in  recent  weeks,  that  of  the  plight  of  the  Rohingya 
Muslim  minority  in  Burma,  who  are  suffering  a 
veritable ethnic-religious purge. Chad believes that the 
whole world must rise up in opposition and call on the 
Burmese Government to put an immediate end to that 
tragedy.
The  Republic  of  Chad  is  deeply  concerned  about 
the threats to world peace caused by the nuclear tests 
conducted by North Korea. The leaders of that country 
must gauge the dramatic consequences that could come 
about  as  a  result  of  that  policy  and  should  prioritize 
dialogue in order to assert their rights.
Finally,  with  regard  to  the  proposals  for  United 
Nations  reform,  Chad  reiterates  the  common  position 
of Africa as determined by the African Group in New 
York,  which  emerged  from  the  Ezulwini  Consensus. 
We  believe  that  the  best  way  to  reform  the  United 
Nations is to reform the Security Council and to grant a 
seat to Africa as a permanent member, thus enabling it 
to be involved in the decision-making process in world 
affairs. 
Whether  with  regard  to  economic,  climatic  or 
environmental  questions  or  domestic  or  international 
issues,  Chad  has  always  been  guided  by  concern  to 
18/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
ensure  the  safety  and  welfare  that  the  citizens  of  the 
world have the right to expect from their leaders. My 
country  invites  each  of  the  States  represented  here 
today to implement the theme adopted this year by the 
Assembly in order to better our planet and the lives of 
its inhabitants.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Kamina  Johnson  Smith,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Foreign Trade of Jamaica.
Ms.  Smith  (Jamaica):  I  am  delighted  to  extend 
the  warm  congratulations  of  Jamaica  to  the  President 
for assuming the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  the  seventy-second  session  and  to  assure  him  of 
our  support.  We  are  particularly  pleased  to  note  his 
selection of a theme that underscores the fundamental 
importance  of 
transformative  2030  Agenda 
Sustainable  Development,  which  is  a  plan  for  people, 
planet and prosperity.
the 
I express, on behalf of the Government and people 
of  Jamaica,  our  deepest  sympathies  and  prayers  for 
the  families  and  loved  ones  of  victims  of  the  recent 
hurricanes,  which  directly  impacted  our  Caribbean 
brothers  and  sisters  and  those  in  the  United  States, 
as  well  as  the  families  and  loved  ones  of  victims  of 
recent earthquakes in Mexico, our dear friend from the 
region.  I  am  deeply  moved  by  the  fact  that  following 
the  passage  of  two  massive  hurricanes,  thousands  of 
people across the Caribbean are now forced into a life 
that  is  dramatically  different  from  what  it  was  just  a 
few days ago. On behalf of our Caribbean brothers and 
sisters directly impacted by the hurricanes, we wish to 
thank those countries and organizations that have given 
without  being  asked,  and  to  urge  those  who  have  the 
means to support these countries and their peoples in 
this time of urgent need.
For  us  in  the  Caribbean,  climate  change  is  not  a 
philosophical  concept  or  an  academic  debate.  It  is 
an  existential  issue.  It  is  our  reality,  and  it  requires 
urgent  and  effective  action.  We  are  ever  mindful  of 
our  responsibility  to  strengthen  our  resilience  and 
expedite  efforts  towards  adaptation  and  mitigation. 
Yet our ability to do so is greatly impacted by the new 
catastrophic  events  that  cause  social  dislocation  and 
severe  misalignment  of  our  economies.  The  limited 
resources that we have are dwarfed by the huge sums 
required  to  meet  recovery  and  reconstruction  costs. 
How  do  small  States  like  ours,  many  already  facing 
adverse debt dynamics, mobilize the financing required 
to  build  climate-resilient  infrastructure?  To  do  so,  it 
is  imperative  that  we  identify  both  grant  funds  and 
concessionary financing that can support investment in 
resilient  infrastructure  over  the  long  term.  If  not,  we 
will  continue  to  be  caught  in  an  inescapable  cycle  of 
devastation, recovery and reconstruction, until the next 
disaster strikes.
the 
While  it  is  essential  to  attend  to  the  immediate 
humanitarian  needs  and  reconstruction  efforts,  we 
must  also  urgently  address  our  long-term  Sustainable 
Developmental  Goals  (SDGs).  I  urge  that  in  our 
collective  efforts  to  implement  the  SDGs,  we  take 
account  of 
tremendous  challenges  faced  by 
vulnerable countries completely knocked off course by 
external shocks. In such circumstances, the review and 
follow-up mechanisms associated with the time-bound 
commitments of the Agenda are rendered meaningless. 
Therefore,  we  call  on  the  United  Nations  system  to 
establish a mechanism to provide the requisite support 
and compensation to vulnerable countries affected by 
natural  disasters,  where  their  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda and progress towards achieving the SDGs 
have been derailed as a result of such external shocks.
In  recognition  of  our  vulnerabilities  as  a  small 
island developing State and the attendant complexities 
of  our  status  as  a  middle-income  country,  Jamaica  is 
collaborating with Chile on a new initiative called the 
Resilient 20. It seeks to create an alliance to promote 
resilience in countries prone to natural disasters, with a 
focus on middle-income countries.
We  also  support  calls  for  the  development  of 
a  climate  change  vulnerability  index  to  provide  a 
standardized  method  for  characterizing  vulnerability 
to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change.  That  would 
enable international financial institutions and bilateral 
donors  to  better  channel  financial  and  technical 
resources  towards  countries  most  susceptible  to  loss 
and damage from climate change.
Jamaica  ratified  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change in April, and regards that historic Agreement 
as  critical  to  efforts  to  arrest  the  impact  of  climate 
change.  Small  island  developing  States  were  at  the 
forefront  of  those  negotiations  and  remain  engaged 
in  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  process.  It  is  an 
inescapable fact that we contribute the least to carbon 
emissions and yet we bear the brunt of the damage. In 
that context, we implore all Member States to abide by 
the commitments of the Agreement.
17-29813
19/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
Climate change also poses risks to tourism, which is 
an industry that owes its competitiveness to the pristine 
nature  of  our  environment.  Sustainable  and  inclusive 
economic  growth  and  job  creation  are  priorities  for 
Jamaica,  and  tourism  plays  a  critical  role  in  ensuring 
that  they  are  achieved.  That  industry  relies  heavily 
on the long-term sustainable investments made by the 
private sector, both national and international.
For this International Year of Sustainable Tourism 
for  Development,  we  have  sought  to  increase  such 
investments,  create  more  jobs,  promote  culture  and 
support  community  development,  while  safeguarding 
the natural environment. In November, in partnership 
with the World Tourism Organization (WTO) and the 
World Bank Group, Jamaica looks forward to hosting 
the  United  Nations-WTO  International  Conference 
on  Partnerships  for  Sustainable  Tourism,  which  will 
be  the  first  time  such  a  conference  is  being  held  in 
the Caribbean.
Jamaica is deeply concerned about the heightened 
menace  to  international  peace  and  security,  arising 
particularly from the threat of nuclear weapons. We have 
a  long-standing  commitment  to  the  goal  of  achieving 
a  nuclear-weapon-free  world  and  are  a  State  party  to 
the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which declared the Caribbean 
and  Latin  America  as  the  first  nuclear-weapon-free 
zone  in  a  densely  populated  area.  At  the  universal 
level, therefore, we welcome the fact that we now have 
the  first  global  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons as a critical step towards addressing some of 
those concerns. It is our hope that it will enter into force 
in short order and be duly observed universally.
As  global  citizens  starkly  aware  of  how  closely 
our  futures  are  intertwined,  we  condemn  the  recent 
nuclear  and  ballistic-missile  tests  carried  out  by  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which  pose 
a grave threat to international peace and security. We 
urge  North  Korea  to  immediately  and  fully  comply 
with  its  international  obligations  under  all  relevant 
Security Council resolutions and to resume dialogue on 
the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
The challenges that currently impede global peace 
and  security  require  that  we  identify  and  address  the 
root causes of conflict. We therefore fully support the 
focus  placed  by  the  Secretary-General  on  sustaining 
peace across the continuum from prevention, conflict 
resolution and peacekeeping to peacebuilding and long-
term development.
We in Jamaica are working to provide our citizens 
with  a  safe  and  secure  environment  in  which  to  live 
full and productive lives. Our strategy includes placing 
greater emphasis on safeguarding our porous borders, 
through  which  illicit  firearms  enter.  Jamaica  has 
benefited from the support of our international partners, 
and  we  invite  continued  collaboration  in  curbing  this 
illicit  trade.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  the  third 
Review Conference of the United Nations Programme 
of  Action  on  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons,  to  be 
convened in 2018. Furthermore, Jamaica will continue 
to play its part in supporting the universalization and 
implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty.
People  and  their  well-being  are  at  the  heart  of 
our  commitment  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  remain  focused  on 
the  most 
vulnerable of our citizens to ensure that those furthest 
behind  will  benefit  first  from  the  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda.  The  alignment  between  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  our 
national  development  plan,  Vision  2030,  creates  a 
framework  within  which  we  can  identify  and  achieve 
our priorities, not least of which is to ensure the dignity 
of the individual.
What has become increasingly evident, however, is 
that  securing  the  resources  for  the  implementation  of 
those development objectives remains critical at both the 
national and the international levels. In recognition of 
that fact, Jamaica has partnered with Canada to identify 
new  and  innovative  means  of  financing  development. 
Through the Group of Friends of SDG Financing, which 
our  countries  co-chair,  we  have  been  promoting  the 
establishment  of  partnerships  with  the  private  sector, 
philanthropic organizations and academic institutions. 
We  are  exploring  innovative  financial  mechanisms 
that can spur the investments needed to accelerate the 
implementation of the SDGs.
like  Jamaica,  which  have 
Issues  related  to  global  economic  governance, 
debt  sustainability  and  SDG  financing  take  on  even 
more  significance  for  highly  indebted  middle-income 
countries 
large  public 
investment  needs  but 
limited  fiscal  space.  Our 
reduced  access  to  concessionary  finance  and  official 
development assistance is a direct consequence of our 
middle-income designation. We contend that the use of 
gross domestic product per capita as the sole criterion 
to graduate countries such as ours from concessionary 
financing  represents  an  inadequate  and  inaccurate 
measure of a country’s true development status.
20/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
Accordingly,  middle-income  countries  face  the 
risk  of  having  their  hard-won  socioeconomic  gains 
reversed  as  a  result  of  losing  well-needed  financial 
support, precisely at the time they need to consolidate 
and  build  on  the  gains  they  have  made.  We  therefore 
commend  and  thank  those,  including  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
and  the  Commonwealth  Secretariat,  that  advocate  for 
the application of a broader set of indicators that take 
account of the structural gaps in our countries. From a 
global perspective, it is important that the international 
economic  and  financial  architecture  be  aligned  with 
Agenda 2030 and take account of that very important 
distinction. Jamaica therefore urges that policymakers 
embed  the  SDGs  into  their  design  of  international 
regulatory frameworks.
Jamaica  looks  forward  to  the  convening  later 
this  year  of  the  eleventh  World  Trade  Organization 
Ministerial  Conference 
in  Buenos  Aires,  which 
brings  with  it  the  potential  for  advancing  the  Doha 
Development  Agenda.  As  a  small  island  developing 
State  with  an  open  economy  that  is  highly  reliant 
on  foreign  trade,  we  are  dependent  on  a  vibrant  and 
dynamic global trading environment. We must secure 
improved market opportunities beyond our shores.
We cannot, however, participate in the international 
economic  and  trading  system  without  correspondent 
banking  relations.  Several  international  banks  have 
withdrawn correspondent banking services from many 
small  countries,  including  in  the  Caribbean,  in  an 
effort  to  de-risk  their  client  portfolios  in  response  to 
stringent regulatory penalties for compliance breaches. 
However,  what  is  viewed  by  international  banks  as  a 
simple balance-sheet issue has had unintended negative 
spill-over effects for countries in the Caribbean, with 
serious political and economic consequences. We call 
for  urgent  international  attention  to  be  given  to  that 
deepening crisis.
I  now  turn  to  the  issue  of  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs), which exact a high socioeconomic and 
development cost on all countries, but disproportionately 
so  in  small  island  developing  States.  Jamaica  agrees 
that  an  effective  response  to  that  global  pandemic  is 
best addressed through multi-stakeholder partnerships 
in  a  comprehensive  whole-of-Government  response. 
We are firmly on that path. Jamaica is addressing NCDs 
by promoting healthy lifestyles from birth, increasing 
awareness of NCDs and encouraging physical activity 
across  the  country.  We  are  also  strengthening  our 
policy and regulatory frameworks to address obesity in 
childhood and adulthood and other risk factors.
Such  efforts  should  be  complemented  by  action 
taken  at  the  global  level.  We  therefore  look  forward 
to  the  2018  high-level  meeting  on  non-communicable 
diseases  and  reiterate  the  call  for  greater  access  by 
developing countries to the findings of modern research 
and technology.
Jamaica  is  committed  to  the  empowerment  of 
women  and  girls,  and  our  young  people.  We  have 
revitalized  our  national  youth  parliament  and  created 
a  national  youth  advisory  council  to  ensure  that 
young  people  have  a  voice  at  policymaking  levels  in 
our country. We are strengthening our legislative and 
policy frameworks to address violence against women 
and girls and to foster economic opportunities. We will 
also  protect  our  children  from  abuse  by  maintaining 
vigilance  with  respect  to  new  and  emerging  threats, 
such as cyberbullying and sexual exploitation online.
Earlier  this  year,  Jamaica  became  a  party  to  The 
Hague  Convention  of  25  October  1980  on  the  Civil 
Aspects of International Child Abduction, and enacted 
legislation for its implementation. As we strengthen our 
national institutional framework to address trafficking 
in  children,  we  also  look  forward  to  participating  in 
next week’s High-level Meeting on the Appraisal of the 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
The  movement  of  persons  across  borders  is  a 
natural phenomenon. Migrants are an asset both to their 
countries  of  destination  and  their  countries  of  origin. 
Jamaica highly values the contribution that our diaspora 
makes to national development and to the development 
of  their  host  countries.  We  are  actively  working  on 
strategies to deepen our engagement.
Consistent with a renewed focus on placing people 
at the centre of sustainable development, we must not 
forget the plight of the refugees and persons displaced 
by conflict and natural disasters — occurrences not of 
their own making. Against this background, the ongoing 
deliberations  on  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly 
and regular migration take on even more significance 
as we move to the intergovernmental negotiations phase 
during this session of the General Assembly.
Jamaica’s adherence to the principles of the United 
Nations is rooted in a belief in multilateralism and the 
benefits we derive from collaboration and cooperation. 
The  most  intractable  disputes  require  us  to  engage 
17-29813
21/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
collectively  in  the  quest  for  lasting  and  meaningful 
solutions. In this regard, we reiterate our call for an end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against  Cuba.  This  unjust  embargo  has  restricted  the 
ability  of  a  hard-working  and  self-reliant  people  to 
engage in legitimate trade, to travel and to undertake 
international financial transactions.
Turning to the Middle East, we continue to believe 
that  the  best  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  crisis 
rests in a negotiated political settlement based on a just, 
lasting  and  comprehensive  agreement  that  guarantees 
the  security  of  Israel  and  provides  for  a  Palestinian 
State within internationally recognized borders.
Our  collective  efforts 
With  respect  to  the  situation  concerning  Western 
Sahara, we recall the appeal of the Security Council to 
all parties to show realism and a spirit of compromise 
to  move  the  negotiations  forward.  Jamaica  therefore 
supports the relaunch of negotiations under the auspices 
of  the  United  Nations,  leading  to  the  resumption  of 
a process with the aim of reaching a just, lasting and 
mutually acceptable political solution.
in  all 
these  political, 
economic  and  social  areas  require  an  effective  and 
dynamic  United  Nations.  Jamaica  therefore  supports 
reforms that improve coordination, enhance coherence 
and  strengthen  the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization. 
Reform measures must ensure that the United Nations 
remains connected to the people it seeks to serve and 
must  be  informed  by  the  realities  on  the  ground  in 
programme  countries.  They  should  advance  all  three 
key  pillars  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations:  peace 
and security, development and the promotion of human 
rights.  A  renewed  and  revitalized  United  Nations 
reform  effort  will  allow  us  to  reap  the  full  benefits 
of multilateralism.
I conclude by reaffirming Jamaica’s unfailing belief 
in our ability as a community of nations, whose destiny 
and prosperity are intertwined, to make a difference in 
the life of every human being. I therefore encourage all 
of us to be bold and unrelenting in our quest to make 
this world a better place, leaving no one behind. Let us 
go forward in the conviction that we can achieve peace 
and  prosperity  for  our  peoples  and  protect  our  planet 
for the benefit of future generations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Mohamed Asim, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Maldives.
Mr.  Asim  (Maldives):  We  stand  today  at  a 
crossroads  between  old  wars  and  new  conflicts; 
between  what  we  know  and  what  we  fear;  between 
the  needs  of  a  changing  planet  and  the  demands  of  a 
growing population. We remain caught between human 
ambition  and  human  limitations.  In  these  times  of 
change, we must turn once again to the principles that 
define the Organization — those that make us who we 
are and who we would like to become.
Rising from the darkness of war, the United Nations 
shone  like  a  beacon  of  light.  Dedicated  to  seeking 
peace, the Organization became the purpose for many 
of those fighting for freedom, fighting fear and fighting 
for the right to be. The United Nations was and is the 
best hope we have for humankind. The United Nations 
was built on the promise of peace and salvation. It is a 
place where every issue can be debated for a solution 
and  where  every  nation  has  a  voice,  regardless  of  its 
size or might. That is why we believe that the theme for 
this session of the General Assembly — “Focusing on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on a 
sustainable planet” — is most appropriate. This is what 
makes up the core of the Organization and what defines 
our work.
Please  allow  me  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák on his assumption of the role of President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I also 
welcome the Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, 
to  his  first  general  debate  and  commend  him  for  the 
dedication  he  has  demonstrated  throughout  his  first 
year in office.
The United Nations is what we all make of it. It is 
made  up  of  us,  the  Member  States,  and  its  successes 
and  its  weaknesses  are  determined  by  how  much  we 
put  into  it.  My  country,  the  Maldives,  envisions  a 
United  Nations  that  is  fair  and  representative  of  its 
diverse membership, that takes into account the views 
and  opinions  of  all,  and  that  forms  consensus  based 
on  compromise  and  dialogue.  We  envision  a  United 
Nations that commits and delivers.
Our vision for a stronger United Nations is founded 
on President Abdulla Yameen Abdul Gayoom’s policy 
of  strengthening  national  resilience  —  economic 
resilience,  social  resilience,  political  resilience  and, 
indeed, environmental resilience. It is based on crafting 
meaningful global solutions, built on national policies 
and experiences, to the common problems of our times 
and for our common and shared destiny.
22/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
The world must become a safer planet for all. No 
man,  no  woman  and  certainly  no  child  should  suffer 
due to conflict, yet we know that this is not the case. 
Far too many people are dying in conflicts across the 
world. Far too many mothers are living in fear, unsure 
of the fate of their children, and far too many children 
are seeing their futures crumble in front of them.
In Palestine, another year ends without permanent 
peace  or  permanent  hope.  An  independent,  sovereign 
State  of  Palestine  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
established  along  the  1967  borders,  is  the  only 
solution  and  the  only  way.  Yet,  many  resolutions 
have  been  adopted  without  action  and  many  peace 
processes have been abandoned without progress. The 
shameful  occupation  by  Israel  continues,  without  any 
consequences.  Violence,  economic  deprivation,  fear, 
hunger  and  hopelessness —  these  are  what  a  child  in 
Palestine is born into. Generations have now matured 
knowing nothing else. That must end.
In  Syria,  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  million  people 
have lost their lives, with many millions displaced and 
many  more  millions  made  refugees.  War  crimes  have 
been committed, chemical weapons used and inhumane 
treatment normalized. That suffering must end.
As  hundreds  of  innocent  people  continue  to  flee 
violence,  conflict  and  endless  suffering  —  in  their 
greatest numbers since the world wars — it has become 
imperative that we seek sustainable, long-term solutions 
that  address  the  well-being  and  welfare  of  migrants 
and  refugees.  Incidents  of  hatred,  Islamaphobia  and 
xenophobia, which have become so frequent today, can 
only breed more violence, intolerance and hatred. Our 
policies of fences, force and fear must end.
In  Myanmar,  the  situation  of  Rohingya  Muslims, 
who  are  some  of  the  most  persecuted  people  in  the 
world, presents another tragic case. Systemic violence, 
including  massacres,  the  torching  of  homes,  forced 
displacement  and  forced  migration,  are  acts  of  ethnic 
cleansing  that  are  alarming,  to  say  the  least.  Those 
responsible for such barbaric actions must be brought 
to justice swiftly. Those acts of prejudice, violence and 
discrimination against Rohingya Muslims must end.
Instilling  fear  of  the  other  is  easy.  Determining 
others  to  be  worthless  owing  to  their  religion,  race, 
ethnicity, nationality, Islamaphobia or any other reason 
is a short step away. When that happens, it is easy to 
ignore grave violations; it is easier to even encourage 
them. It is then, and only then, that we see, as we have 
seen, the worst of humankind. We cannot allow another 
wave of genocide to recur — not on our watch.
Chaos,  vacuum  and  uncertainty  have  given  the 
opportunity for Da’esh to start its own brand of terror, 
its own version of religion and its own brutal methods 
of  fear.  Combating  terrorism  and  fighting  violent 
extremism  and  radicalization  are  national  priorities. 
We  have  enacted  national  legislation  and  formulated 
a  comprehensive  national  policy  in  our  fight  against 
violent  extremism.  Last  year,  we  also  established  a 
national centre for counter-terrorism. It is a top priority 
for the Maldives.
The  Maldives  is  working  with  its  bilateral  and 
international  partners,  studying  best  practices  and 
forging  common  consensuses.  We  commend 
the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  in  achieving  greater 
global coordination in the fight against terrorism. The 
establishment  of  the  new  United  Nations  Office  of 
Counter-Terrorism,  we  hope,  will  inject  more  energy 
into the implementation of the Plan of Action to Prevent 
Violent  Extremism.  The  Secretary-General  will  have 
our full support.
We must all do more. Today, we are in the midst of 
a war like no other. Our enemies have no single face, no 
single identity, no single country and no single strategy. 
The only things they have in common are their brutal 
methods  and  misplaced  ideology.  The  fact  that  they 
kill  more  Muslims  —  the  very  people  they  allegedly 
fight to protect — proves their twisted reasoning. Such 
terrorism and such extremism must end.
In  North  Korea,  the  most  recent  tests  of  ballistic 
missiles,  and  with  them  the  real  threat  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  war,  have  alarmed  us  all.  They  are  a 
clear violation of international law and an unnecessary 
act  of  provocation.  There  is  every  possibility  now 
that  they  could  lead  us  down  the  path  of  destruction. 
We  condemn  those  actions  and  urge  North  Korea  to 
return  to  dialogue,  let  multilateralism  take  its  course 
and  choose  peace  over  war.  These  blatant  attempts  at 
aggression must end.
The world must become a more hopeful place for 
all — a place where people enjoy decent and meaningful 
lives.  Adopting  a  proactive  and  constructive  stand  is 
our  approach.  Sustained  and  targeted  investment  is 
our  policy.  Looking  to  cultivate  a  culture  of  respect 
for human rights, at home and abroad, is our goal. We 
believe that we have been successful.
17-29813
23/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
The  Gender  Equality  Act  has  guaranteed  in 
law  what  Maldivians  have  been  practicing 
for 
decades  —  equality  for  women  at  home,  at  work,  in 
decision-making and in our society. Policies aimed at 
increasing  the  representation  of  women  in  leadership 
positions  are  showing  results.  Laws,  policies  and 
regulations  have  created  a  framework  in  which  every 
man, every woman, every Maldivian can be a champion 
for gender equality. We need to do more, as all countries 
do, but we are proud of our considerable progress.
People  with  disabilities  are  supported  through 
financial and material support. Our elderly population 
is getting the compassion and financial support we owe 
it, through well-targeted policies. Universal health care 
has been realized across the country, in all 188 islands. 
Easy access to a medical doctor, sea ambulances and a 
pharmacy  on  every  island  are  ensured.  The  Maldives 
spends  more  than  9  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic 
product on health-related expenses, which is the highest 
in the region of South-East Asia. It is an investment that 
has propelled us on our development path. Lymphatic 
filaria, measles, malaria and polio are all diseases that 
have been eradicated in the Maldives.
islands.  Achieving  near-universal 
Access  to  safe,  habitable  and  affordable  housing 
is  recognized  as  a  human  right  in  the  Constitution. 
Considerable  progress  has  been  made  with  several 
housing units built and awarded under public-housing 
schemes, despite the scarcity of land and the remoteness 
of 
literacy  and 
universal  enrolment  in  schools  has  not  stopped  us. 
We are investing continually in improving the quality 
of  our  schools,  our  teachers,  our  curriculum  and  our 
approaches so as to ensure that no child is left behind.
We are also investing in our young people — the 
future  of  our  nation.  Caring  for  the  physical,  mental 
and  social  well-being  of  our  young  people  —  the 
largest portion of our population — is a cornerstone of 
the  Government’s  policy.  We  are  focused  on  creating 
an  enabling  environment  in  which  they  will  thrive 
and  shine,  including  through  the  promotion  of  unity, 
cultural  values,  national  identity  and  national  spirit 
through programmes such as Tharika, launched earlier 
this year.
The Maldives is a middle-income country, but like 
every country we want to achieve higher growth and even 
greater  development.  If  that  is  to  happen,  large-scale 
investment  is  necessary.  Investments  are  a  means  to 
support not only our economic development but also our 
social  development.  Large-scale  projects  will  help  to 
provide economies of scale and facilitate the expansion 
of  key  sectors  of  the  economy,  as  well  as  create  jobs 
and opportunities for our youth so that their creativity 
can  be  unleashed.  Yet  it  has  become  increasingly 
difficult for middle-income countries like the Maldives 
to  access  concessional  financing  for  development 
projects, thereby leaving them no other choice than to 
accept  commercial  interest  rates  and  further  increase 
their  debt  burdens.  That  will  undoubtedly  make  the 
transition  from  the  middle-income  category  to  higher 
levels of development all the more challenging.
Our  successes  at  home  provide  the  basis  for  our 
solutions  to  the  global  problems  that  are  facing  our 
world.  Our  focus  globally  has  been  to  ensure  that 
we  pay  attention  to  the  most  vulnerable.  That  is  why 
we  believe  that  focusing  on  those  who  have  no  voice 
and  are  not  usually  represented  and  ensuring  that 
their  voices  are  heard  should  be  the  international 
community’s  collective  focus,  as  it  was  ours  during 
the six years we served on the Human Rights Council. 
Accordingly, while on the Council, we established the 
Voluntary Technical Assistance Trust Fund to Support 
the  Participation  of  Least  Developed  Countries  and 
Small  Island  Developing  States  in  the  work  of  the 
Human Rights Council. Those two groups of countries 
are  acutely  underrepresented  in  Geneva.  Our  priority 
therefore was women, children and the disabled, and we 
initiated discussion on the link between climate change 
and  its  consequences  on  human  rights.  We  worked 
hard to establish the Special Rapporteur on the issue of 
human rights obligations relating to the enjoyment of a 
safe,  clean,  healthy  and  sustainable  environment  —  a 
major global milestone.
The world must be made a happier place to live in, 
and  that  can  be  achieved  only  through  our  collective 
will  to  approach  our  shared  problems  with  concrete 
solutions.  There  is  no  greater  global  threat  than  that 
posed by climate change. In 1987, when the Maldives 
first  spoke  about  sea-level  rise,  the  science  was  still 
new  and  the  threat  relatively  unknown.  We  persisted 
in our advocacy because we believed that the threat of 
climate change deserved and, indeed, warranted global 
attention.  The  Maldives  hosted  the  first  Small  States 
Conference  on  Sea  Level  Rise  in  1989.  We  helped 
establish  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  —  one 
of  the  most  influential  groups  with  regard  to  climate 
change and sustainable development — which we have 
chaired  since  2015.  In  2008,  the  Maldives  introduced 
24/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
the  first  United  Nations  resolution  on  human  rights 
and climate change (Human Rights Council resolution 
7/23),  which  was  the  first  time  that  a  United  Nations 
document acknowledged that link.
Today,  the  threat  of  climate  change  is  very  real. 
Unpredictable  weather,  more  frequent  and  intense 
natural  disasters  and  unprecedented  temperatures  are 
the norm rather than the exception. The unprecedented 
frequency and the intensity of the recent hurricanes that 
struck the Caribbean, the United States and the Pacific 
islands last year are all powerful signs that our planet 
has changed significantly. Island nations, including the 
Maldives, are the first to be devastated by such impacts, 
but we are not the only ones. Today, climate change is 
becoming a reality for the rest of the world whether or 
not we choose to believe it.
I would like to take this opportunity to express our 
sincere sympathies to those who were recently affected 
by Hurricanes José, Irma and Maria. I assure them that 
we will not stop our advocacy with regard to the effects 
of climate change.
We  have  proposed  many  solutions.  The  full 
implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  is  our  priority.  The  reduction  of  harmful 
emissions, transitioning to renewable sources of energy 
and  investing  in  mitigation  and  adaptation  are  all 
crucial.  We  need  to  join  together  in  meaningful  and 
durable partnerships to find sustainable solutions. We 
need constructive engagement, leadership — such as we 
are seeing from China, Brazil, India, Canada, France, 
Germany and countless others — and a certain degree 
of  openness  to  change  on  the  part  of  all  countries, 
including developing and developed ones.
At  home,  we  are  investing  in  renewable  energy 
through  the  transition  to  a  low-carbon  economy.  As 
the  Chair  of  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States,  and 
in  collaboration  with  the  International  Renewable 
Energy  Agency,  the  Maldives  launched  the  initiative 
for  renewable  island  energy,  which  will  facilitate 
support  for  small  island  States  in  their  transition  to 
renewable  energy  and  in  achieving  energy  efficiency. 
We  are  looking  at  innovative  approaches  to  fulfil  the 
development needs of our people that do not compromise 
the  needs  of  our  planet.  We  have  lent  our  voice  and 
shared  our  experience.  We  have  requested  support  to 
make  our  economy  and  our  country  more  resilient  to 
the shocks and impacts caused by climate change.
Taking  care  of  our  ocean  is  intimately  linked  to 
taking  meaningful  action  on  climate  change.  The 
Maldives  and  other  island  nations  are  custodians  of 
large expanses of ocean. Yet every person in this Hall, 
every  community  which  they  represent  and  every 
country  they  come  from  benefits  from  our  oceans 
and  depends  on  the  health  and  wealth  of  our  oceans 
and  seas.  Every  other  breath  we  take  comes  from  the 
ocean. In the Maldives, the ocean is the backbone and 
the  artery  of  its  two  main  economic  sectors:  fishing 
and  tourism.  The  ocean  defines  who  the  Maldivians 
are  —  traditional  seafarers  and  members  of  fishing 
communities  who  rely  on  the  produce  that  the  ocean 
offers them.
We therefore welcomed and actively participated in 
the first United Nations Oceans Conference, held earlier 
this year, and despite the hardships, we have preserved 
our traditional method of pole-and-line fishing, which 
is  the  best  regarded,  cleanest,  greenest  and  most 
sustainable  method  of  fishing,  as  it  is  predicated  on 
catching fish individually with practically no by-catch.
Since  2010,  our  entire  exclusive  economic  zone, 
which  comprises  nearly  1  million  square  kilometres, 
has  been  declared  a  shark  sanctuary.  As  the  current 
Chair  of  the  Save  Our  Sharks  Coalition,  we  call  on 
other countries to adopt that measure. Accordingly, an 
entire atoll is recognized by UNESCO as a biosphere 
reserve, while many other marine resources and areas 
are  protected  and  preserved.  In  fact,  there  are  many 
more uninhabited islands with marine protected areas 
than populated islands in the Maldives. That is why the 
total ban on the exploitation of ecologically significant 
marine creatures — such as turtles, whales, dolphins, 
rays,  and  whale  sharks —  is  strictly  enforced.  At  the 
same  time,  Maldivians  are  some  of  the  most  prolific 
consumers  of  fish  and  marine  products,  thereby 
demonstrating to the world that the sustainable use of 
marine resources is indeed possible.
We  must  not 
forget 
those  who  suffer 
the 
consequences  of  natural  disasters.  We  are  witnessing 
the total destruction and loss of life resulting from the 
earthquake in Mexico. As the international community, 
we  must  strive  to  do  our  very  best  for  them  and  the 
many  others  throughout  the  world  who  are  suffering 
from  disasters,  and  focus  on  cultivating  resilience 
through better rebuilding.
Climate change, sustainable development, and the 
protection  of  our  ocean  are  not  trends  or  ephemeral 
17-29813
25/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
infatuations.  Inaction  will  cost  us  our  progress, 
prosperity, the lives of our people and the future of all 
our  nations.  This  is  not  the  time  to  question  what  we 
already know. This is not the time to turn inwards or 
look the other way. There is no time to waste. It is time 
to act.
Two  days  ago,  we  celebrated  52  proud  years  as 
a  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Throughout  our 
membership over the past five decades, we have worked 
with a vision of a United Nations that protects people, 
providing  them  with  a  safe  haven  and  access  to  their 
rights;  a  United  Nations  that  preserves  our  planet, 
prioritizing the needs of our present generation without 
compromising  those  of  the  future;  a  United  Nations 
that promotes peace, a world free from fear and full of 
bright tomorrows and an abundance of hope.
We  have 
focused  on  providing  meaningful, 
pragmatic and real solutions, based on sound national 
experience,  for  our  common  shared  destiny.  It  is 
because we have a meaningful vision to promote that 
we continue to make every effort for the common cause 
of  humankind.  It  is  our  firm  belief  in  the  power  of 
multilateralism — the same faith that propelled us 52 
years  ago  to  seek  membership  of  the  United  Nations, 
the very first foreign-policy decision of the independent 
Maldives — that pushes us to be effective members of 
the international community.
It  is  because  we  have  never  served  before;  it  is 
because  of  the  promise  of  equality  of  representation 
and  our  conviction  that  every  nation,  large  or  small, 
should  have  a  voice  and  can  make  a  difference;  and 
it is because of our firm conviction that size does not 
determine destiny or value that, for the first time in our 
52 years of membership of the United Nations, we are 
seeking  a  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  2019-
2020 term.
We stand tall and proud because we believe that we 
have much to offer: fresh perspectives, fresh ideas and 
new concepts that would bring renewed dynamism and 
new  approaches  to  the  United  Nations.  The  Maldives 
deserves an equal chance to serve on that international 
organ.  We  are  dedicated  to  the  cause  of  peace  in  a 
sustainable  world,  and  we  are  determined  to  leave  a 
mark and make a difference.
The  triumph  of  multilateralism,  the  pinnacle  of 
our common vision, lies in our collective approach to 
solving the global challenges of our time. The Maldives 
stands ready to take that leap of faith, providing shared 
solutions for our shared, common destiny.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alain  Aimé  Nyamitwe,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Republic of Burundi.
Mr. Nyamitwe (Burundi) (spoke in French): I have 
the  pleasure  of  conveying  to  the  Assembly  the  most 
fraternal greetings of Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President 
of the Republic of Burundi. He would have liked to be 
present  here,  but  pressing  commitments  back  home 
prevented him from making the journey to New York.
My delegation wishes to congratulate Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  his  outstanding  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  a  vibrant  tribute  to  his 
predecessor, Mr. Peter Thomson, a worthy son of Fiji, 
for a job well done.
As this is his first session of the General Assembly 
as  head  of  our  Organization,  may  I  also  express 
Burundi’s  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres  for  his  commitment  to  the  values    of  peace, 
security and development.
Patience  is  a  virtue  that  climate  change  does  not 
recognize.  The  devastating  effects  it  has  fuelled  have 
permeated  virtually  all  conversations  in  this  venue 
and  ushered  in  this  very  session.  The  names  of  Irma 
and  Maria,  in  the  meteorological  field  at  least,  will 
forever connote total destruction. I therefore extend our 
most sincere condolences to the countries and regions 
of  the  Caribbean  that  have  been  severely  affected  by 
these hurricanes. We also express Burundi’s solidarity 
with  Mexico,  stricken  this  week  by  an  earthquake. 
We stand wholeheartedly with all these countries and 
their peoples.
The  climatic  disturbances  of  recent  times  are 
again sounding the alarm, urging all States to assume 
their collective duty to combat global warming and to 
implement without delay the commitments of the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  We  believe  that  no 
State may shirk its responsibility to that end, whatever 
its  size,  shape  or  place  on  the  map  of  the  world.  We 
must work together, for we are all in the same boat. If 
we wish to attain the objective of containing the average 
temperature  rise  on  the  planet  below  2°C  compared 
to  pre-industrial  levels  and  pursue  measures  to  limit 
temperature increases to 1.5°C vis-à-vis pre-industrial 
26/28 
17-29813
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.21
levels, we need to act today because tomorrow will be 
too late.
international cooperation in that area so as to build a 
more just world.
In implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, Burundi is continuing its path of social 
inclusion  and  shared  economic  growth.  It  cannot  do 
otherwise, since these two aspects are key pillars of the 
development  policy  advocated  through  Vision  2025. 
To  that  end,  our  country  counts  on  the  cooperation 
of  friendly  States  and  other  international  partners. 
Unfortunately, the sanctions adopted by the European 
Union  against  Burundi  are  not  contributing  to  the 
realization  of  these  plans  of  great  importance  for  the 
Burundian people, because they deprive the country of 
necessary resources. Thus, the attainment of the 2030 
Agenda and the objectives of the African Union Agenda 
2063 is compromised as a result of these sanctions.
We also believe that sanctions unilaterally imposed 
against developing States in general, and in Africa in 
particular,  should  be  banned  from  the  international 
system, since they perpetuate historical injustices and 
violate  the  sacrosanct  principle  of  equal  sovereignty. 
Like the African Union, Burundi therefore rejects and 
condemns the sanctions imposed on Burundi and other 
African countries.
In  the  field    of  migration,  we  must  work  together 
to  find  solutions  to  the  root  causes  of  population 
movements,  made  up  mostly  of  young  people,  from 
countries of the South to the North. We need to ensure 
conditions  of  humane  migration  in  order  to  protect 
migrants, who contribute to the well-being of the host 
communities  through  their  multifaceted  contributions 
to economic activity.
The  apocalyptic  scenes  in  the  Mediterranean  Sea 
strike at our consciences as human beings. The reasons 
for  migration  must  be  explained  and  we  must  all 
understand them if we are to find appropriate solutions. 
It  is  regrettable  that  migration  is  increasingly  being 
met with a resurgence of racism, rejection of the other 
and, often, even acts of rare violence against migrants. 
Likewise,  racist  populism  is  becoming  increasingly 
prominent  and  gradually  undermining  the  paradigms 
on  which  certain  so-called  advanced  societies  have 
long rested.
Migration is sometimes the result of trafficking in 
human beings. The victims are doubly affected, since 
in addition to being wrenched from their countries of 
origin, they are mistreated in the host countries. That is 
unacceptable. Consequently, we advocate strengthened 
At  the  political  level,  our  country  reiterates,  as  it 
has  done  repeatedly,  its  position  in  consonance  with 
the Charter of the United Nations. All States Members 
of the United Nations are sovereign Powers, and their 
sovereignty is equal. We call for reining in those States 
that continue in the twenty-first century to believe that 
they have the right to intervene in the internal affairs of 
other States, especially developing countries. We thank 
the  Security  Council,  which,  in  the  case  of  Burundi, 
has reaffirmed respect for its sovereignty in its various 
resolutions  and  presidential  statements.  We  can  never 
say it enough — Burundi believes that non-interference 
in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States  and  respect  for 
their territorial integrity and sovereignty constitute the 
pillars  of  a  balanced  international  system  under  the 
Charter of the United Nations. Those principles are not 
negotiable. Today more than ever, Burundi stands ready 
to defend them at any price.
Recently, human rights have become another tool of 
domination. As a universal concept broadly elaborated 
upon in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
other relevant international instruments, human rights 
have  been  increasingly  exploited  by  several  States 
that,  if  not  mindful  of  their  actions,  will  divert  the 
Human  Rights  Council  from  the  goals  entrusted  to  it 
by the General Assembly. Some members have become 
accustomed  to  obtaining,  through  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  other  mechanisms  established  by  the 
latter, resolutions aimed at undermining the peace and 
security of the States that they wish to harm. The recent 
report  of  the  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  on 
Burundi (A/HRC/36/54) constitutes the ultimate proof 
of the Council’s manipulation by certain small groups. 
Burundi reiterates that it is ready to cooperate with the 
relevant United Nations bodies, but on the condition that 
such cooperation be based on clear, fair and predictable 
foundations that, above all, respect the choices made by 
the Burundians themselves in the areas of governance 
and development.
With  regard  to  the  inter-Burundian  dialogue  and 
the  external  component,  only  a  short  time  ago  the 
Government of the Republic of Burundi received a visit 
from the facilitation team to follow up on consultations 
and resume discussions. Burundi’s positions were made 
known to the facilitation team. We are waiting for the 
facilitation  to  call  for  the  next  meeting,  at  which  the 
delegations will have their voices heard.
17-29813
27/28
A/72/PV.21 
23/09/2017
Burundi  has  asked  its  refugees  to  return.  Our 
appeal, which we reiterate here and now, has also been 
made to neighbouring countries so as to facilitate their 
repatriation. Today, the repatriation movement continues 
apace, with the arrival of approximately 1,700 citizens 
who  found  refuge  in  Tanzania  and  3,000  returning 
from  Rwanda.  They  are  joining  tens  of  thousands  of 
others who have returned over the past several months, 
as  well  as  those  who  would  like  to  return.  We  thank 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  and  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  for  their  cooperation  in  facilitating  those 
return  movements.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  ask 
that unscrupulous Human Rights Council officials end 
the  unsavoury  practice  of  encouraging  refugees  not 
to return.
At the same time, we call on the United Nations to 
continue to monitor the situation of Burundian refugees 
in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo and neighbouring countries, in full compliance 
with the relevant provisions of the Geneva Conventions. 
We deplore the shooting that took place a week ago in 
Kamanyola, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
resulting  in  the  deaths  of  38  Burundian  refugees,  at 
least one officer of the Forces armées de la République 
démocratique du Congo, and more than 120 wounded. 
Once again, we invite the refugees to return home.
Burundi  has  joined  other  States  in  combating 
terrorism,  with  5,400  troops  in  Somalia  within  the 
framework  of  the  African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia 
(AMISOM).  Burundi  has  been  the  second-largest 
troop-contributing  country  in  Somalia  for  the  past 
10  years.  Burundi  is  concerned  about  the  continued 
reduction in support for AMISOM, especially at a time 
when  an  important  campaign  has  been  planned.  The 
successes of the past several years cannot be sacrificed 
to  self-interest.  That  would  run  contrary  to  the  oath 
taken by all partners, which have repeatedly stated that 
terrorism is a global threat.
In  pursuing 
its  contribution 
to  world  peace 
and  security,  Burundi  participates  in  peacekeeping 
operations  in  the  brotherly  country  of  the  Central 
African  Republic,  and  its  police  units  are  deployed 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Haiti.  Burundi  believes  that  the 
efforts  and  sacrifices  made  by  others  must  be  rightly 
acknowledged in all cases.
If  there  is  one  recurring  topic  of  debate  in  this 
Hall, it is that of the reform of the United Nations, and 
in  particular  the  Security  Council.  Burundi  supports 
all  approaches  aimed  at  fostering  a  constructive 
interaction, open to all, between the States Members of 
our Organization, on the one hand, and the Secretary-
General on the other. Burundi supports the structural 
reform of the United Nations pursuant to the initiative 
taken  at  the  high-level  event  on  18  September.  It  is 
necessary  to  consider  the  necessary  reforms  with  the 
goal of improving the functioning of organs including 
the Security Council and the General Assembly. That 
will bring the bodies concerned in line with the realities 
of the twenty-first century.
It  is  clear  that  by  dint  of  pouring  new  wine  into 
old  wineskins,  we  wind  up  bursting  the  latter.  We 
must  be  firm  in  our  conviction  that,  72  years  after 
its  establishment,  the  United  Nations  is  in  need  of  a 
complete face-lift. Concerning reform of the Security 
Council  in  particular,  Burundi  supports  the  shared 
African stance known as the Ezulwini Consensus. It is 
high time that we correct the injustices of the past and 
allow the equitable participation of all continents in the 
governance of international peace and security.
to 
international 
With  regard 
issues,  Burundi 
welcomes the return of the Kingdom of Morocco to the 
fold of the African Union so that we can build a strong and 
prosperous continent together. With regard to Western 
Sahara, Burundi supports the decisions and resolutions 
adopted by the relevant United Nations bodies.
We call for the unconditional lifting of the economic 
blockade against Cuba without delay. The Cuban people 
have suffered under unjust measures that were adopted 
during  the  Cold  War  era  for  primarily  ideological 
reasons and can no longer be justified today.
Similarly, in the case of Venezuela, we call on the 
international community to take measures that promote 
national cohesion and not social disruption.
Lastly, I wish the General Assembly every success 
at this session.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
28/28 
17-29813
