United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
39th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 1 November 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Llorentty Solíz 
(Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 42 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/72/94)
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish): It is a great honour to take the floor when you, 
Sir, are presiding over the General Assembly. 
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
Argentina welcomes the condolences and displays 
of solidarity regarding the attack in New York yesterday. 
We express our condolences to all the victims — five 
of  whom  were  Argentines  —  including  citizens  of 
Belgium and the United States. Argentina reaffirms its 
strong condemnation of terrorist attacks and violence in 
all its manifestations. We reiterate the need to increase 
the fight against that scourge. 
I  will  now  move  on  to  the  issue  at  hand.  At  the 
outset,  I  wish  to  welcome  the  presence  today  of 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, and to thank him for his very detailed 
statement this morning (see A/72/PV.38). 
Argentina  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representative  of  Ecuador,  on  behalf  of 
the Group of 77 and China, and by the representative 
of  El  Salvador,  on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States (see A/72/PV.38), and 
wishes  to  make  the  following  points  in  our  national 
capacity.
Argentina’s  historical  position  has  been 
that 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  must  be 
urgently lifted and is contrary to international law, in 
particular to the principles of the sovereign equality of 
States, non-interference in internal affairs, freedom of 
commerce and international navigation and the peaceful 
resolution of disputes.
the  United  Nations  and 
Within the framework of our absolute commitment 
to 
the  Charter  of 
to 
multilateralism, Argentina opposes the use of unilateral 
coercive measures, the extraterritorial implementation 
of  national  laws  and  the  adoption  of  discriminatory 
commercial  practices.  In  this  regard,  Argentina  has 
traditionally  supported  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly against the embargo and has spoken against 
it  whenever  the  subject  has  arisen,  in  both  regional 
forums and other international organizations.
The  Government  of  Argentina  welcomed 
the 
process initiated by the Governments of Cuba and the 
United States at the end of 2014 to normalize bilateral 
relations.  While  we  welcomed  the  executive  orders 
implemented  by  the  United  States  Department  of  the 
Treasury and the Department of Commerce in 2015 and 
2016, which introduced amendments to regulations on 
the subject, we note with concern that they contrast with 
those announced on 16 June 2017 that reverse some of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-35997 (E)
*1735997*
A/72/PV.39 
01/11/2017
the aforementioned measures and seek to reinforce the 
implementation of the embargo.
use of untargeted, horizonless unilateral sanctions and 
blockades.
We  also  regret  that  the  laws  underpinning  the 
embargo  are  still  in  effect.  Their  implementation 
continues  to  impede  the  full  development  of  the 
Cuban  people.  The  adoption  of  resolution  72/4  by  a 
large  majority  reaffirms  the  unequivocal  message  of 
the international community that the embargo against 
Cuba must be lifted. Argentina reaffirms its conviction 
that  a  dialogue  without  preconditions  between  both 
parties  that  involves  the  mutual  recognition  of  both 
Governments as legitimate and equal interlocutors will 
resolve all pending problems between the United States 
and Cuba, including the lifting of the embargo.
Mr.  Kamau  (Kenya):  Kenya  would  like  to  align 
itself with the statements made earlier this morning by 
the representative of Ecuador, on behalf of the Group 
of  77  and  China;  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, on behalf of  the Non-Aligned 
Movement; and the representative of Gabon, on behalf 
of the Group of African States (see A/72/PV.38).
Kenya  has  always  believed  that  sanctions  and 
blockades  are  a  crude  and  irresponsible  instrument 
of  unilateral  or  collective 
international  action 
and  diplomacy.  Our 
twenty-first-century  global 
civilization  should  never  condone  the  use  of  such 
crude and indiscriminate instruments for international 
diplomacy as unilateral sanctions or blockades. Sadly, 
unilateral  sanctions  and  blockades  continue  to  attract 
the  attention  of  the  powerful  and  the  dominant.  Let 
us  be  clear  —  such  sanctions  and  blockades  are 
prejudicial  and  purely  politically  self-serving.  They 
serve  no  multilateral  purpose  and,  in  fact,  frustrate 
and undermine multilateral solutions. Furthermore, as 
we have seen, more often than not, sanctions serve to 
entrench those whom they ostensibly target.
As  we  all  know,  tragically  and  inevitably,  in  the 
long  run  sanctions  and  blockades  are  unsustainable 
and  poorly  enforceable.  Moreover,  the  suffering  and 
pain  they  cause  rarely,  if  ever,  justify  the  perceived 
injustice that motivated their initial application. If truth 
be told, only the unilateral enforcer takes any political 
capital and satisfaction from unilateral sanctions and/or 
blockades, but little else. At best, sanctions expose the 
vulnerability of those subjected to them, who are, for 
the most part, the poor and the defenceless. The United 
Nations is a body that needs to hold itself to a higher 
ideal  than  that  which  condones  the  crude  choice  and 
The United Nations should hold itself up to an ideal 
that does not demonstrate implicitly that a Member State 
with overwhelming power can be a unilateral enforcer 
of  sanctions  or  blockades.  Indeed,  what  the  United 
Nations holds itself up to should be an ideal that should 
never  demonstrate  that  the  weak  can  suffer  sanctions 
or blockades without recourse and almost without end. 
Those  conditions  are  already  true  and  met  before 
unilateral sanctions or blockades by a powerful entity 
are  selected  and  implemented.  Moreover,  the  United 
Nations should never uphold any sanctions or blockades 
that  do  not  meet  the  threshold  of  precision  and  swift 
and determinative action. Neither should sanctions and 
blockades be prejudicial to and discriminatory against 
a Member State simply because that Member State does 
not adhere to the cultural values or political ideals of 
another Member State or a group of Member States.
In  the  case  of  the  tragic  and  seemingly  perennial 
unilateral  sanctions  and  blockade  levelled  against  the 
Republic of Cuba, it seems to my delegation that history 
has  become  our  political  and  diplomatic  prisoner. 
Surely we know better. We need not be consumed by 
habit or our political imperatives. Why must we allow 
our  historical  habit  to  become  a  determinant  of  our 
current action? That would be truly tragic.
We all know that the point of the unilateral sanctions 
and blockade against Cuba has already been made many 
times over throughout the years. Last year, in this very 
Hall, the enforcer of those sanctions acknowledged that 
they and the blockade finally needed to be lifted. Some 
191  Member  States  agreed  by  voting  for  resolution 
71/5 last year. My delegation believes that the time to 
end the sanctions and blockade against Cuba is indeed 
long  past.  Let  the  people  of  Cuba  be  free  to  join  the 
collective of international citizenry and enjoy the same 
unhindered  social,  economic  and  political  freedoms 
that  the  rest  of  us  enjoy.  Let  us  not  let  sanctions  and 
blockades —  unilateral or otherwise — stand in their 
way. Let us not let sanctions become the instrument that 
we or anyone else uses to leave Cuba behind. It is for 
those reasons that Kenya voted in favour of resolution 
72/4.
Mr.  Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation aligns itself with the statements 
made by the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela, on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
2/12 
17-35997
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.39
Countries, and by the representative of the Republic of 
Ecuador, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see 
A/72/PV.38).
We  wish  to  present  the  following  explanation  of 
vote in our national capacity. We welcome the presence 
of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba,  a  friendly  country,  and  we  reaffirm 
Syria’s  support  for  the  Government  and  our  friends, 
the people of Cuba, as they confront the decades-long, 
unjust embargo imposed by the United States. 
We  also  congratulate  Cuba  on  the  significant 
diplomatic  victory  achieved  today,  which  reflects  the 
international  community’s  rejection  of  the  injustice 
that  Cuba  has  suffered  for  55  years.  It  is  also  a  clear 
illustration of the lack of regard that the United States 
has  for  international  law  and  of  its  stubbornness  in 
implementing  barbaric  policies  involving  embargoes, 
punishments  and  unilateral  coercive  and  economic 
measures  against  States  that  refuse  to  become  its 
satellites and accept its dictates, while defending their 
independence and national sovereignty.
The  international  community  had  optimistically 
welcomed the previous United States Administration’s 
policy concerning Cuba, as it believed that it might one 
day lead to a lifting of the unjust embargo against the 
Cuban  people.  The  current  American  Administration 
has shown once again that the political doctrine of the 
establishment in power in the United States is incapable 
of  changing  and  that  it  will  continue  to  act  based  on 
the logic of the primacy of military force and economic 
influence  with  a  view  to  imposing  its  hegemony 
throughout the entire world, breaking the will of free 
countries  and  bringing  freedom-  and  dignity-loving 
people to their knees.
Such  unilateral  coercive  economic  measures 
constitute  a  collective  punishment  imposed  on  an 
entire population. They undermine the United Nations 
system and impede it from carrying out its legitimate 
mandates.  Furthermore,  they  pose  a  major  obstacle 
to  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  within  the  framework  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  They  also  hinder  trade 
operations  and  the  enjoyment  of  human  rights.  The 
Governments  of  Member  States  that  resort  to  illegal 
blockades  and  unilateral  coercive  economic  measures 
must  begin  to  understand  that  those  unjust  policies 
have only led to the rejection of the West. They provide 
extremist and terrorist movements with a new weapon 
for recruiting from among the weak, who are the most 
affected  by  such  illegal  unilateral  measures,  thereby 
increasing  tensions  in  international  relations  and 
threatening international peace and security.
For  those reasons, the Syrian Arab Republic voted 
in favour of resolution 72/4. Syria calls on the General 
Assembly  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  provisions 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
as  well  as  its  own  relevant  resolutions,  with  a  view 
to  implementing  effective  mechanisms  to  end  such 
aggressive  practices,  policies  involving  embargoes, 
and unilateral economic measures, which run contrary 
to  international  law.  Moreover,  my  country  calls  for 
the  implementation  of  sound  mechanisms  that  would 
hold  accountable  Member  States  that  resort  to  illegal 
economic  embargoes,  which,  owing  to  their  political, 
financial  and  legal  repercussions,  have  disastrous 
consequences  for  the  economies  of  the  countries 
targeted  by  such  embargoes.  The  latter  paralyse  and 
destroy  sensitive  economic  sectors  that  provide  for 
the  basic  needs  of  the  population,  namely,  health 
care, education, nutrition, agriculture, industry, trade, 
technology and communications.
My country demands that the blockade imposed by 
the United States of America be lifted. We also demand 
an  end  to  unilateral  measures  imposed  by  the  United 
States  of  America,  the  European  Union  and  other 
States  against  many  other  Member  States,  including 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic.  Such  unilateral  coercive 
and  aggressive  measures  are  preventing  Syrians  from 
accessing  basic  services,  such  as  food,  medicine, 
education,  and  medical,  agricultural  and  industrial 
equipment,  as  well  as  spare  parts  for  civil  aviation 
and  telecommunications  equipment.  Such  measures 
constitute a major human rights violation and have led 
to  huge  losses  for  the  economy,  thereby  undermining 
efforts to combat terrorism.
In  conclusion,  one  question  remains  unanswered: 
how  can  the  Governments  of  some  Member  States 
reconcile  their  statements  delivered  in  this  Hall  in 
which they call for the rejection of the embargo imposed 
against Cuba and other States with their policies aimed 
at putting humanitarian, economic and social pressure 
on  various  other  nations  through  the  use  of  illegal 
economic  embargoes  against  the  peoples  which  I  just 
mentioned.
Mr.  Dehghani  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  My 
delegation  strongly  condemns  the  heinous  act  of 
17-35997
3/12
A/72/PV.39 
01/11/2017
terrorism that took place yesterday in New York City 
and  expresses  its  condolences  and  sympathy  to  the 
families of all of the victims.
a consistent element of the policies of the United States, 
even  where  a  Security  Council  resolution  has  clearly 
prohibited it.
I shall now present the Assembly with the following 
explanation of vote on resolution 72/4.
to 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
the  principles  of 
against  Cuba  runs  counter 
international law governing relations among States and 
contradicts  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  which  calls  for  promoting  solidarity, 
cooperation and friendly relations among nations, and 
for  the  resolution  of  disputes  and  problems  among 
countries through peaceful means and dialogue, based 
on  equality  and  mutual  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of 
Member States.
embargo 
has 
the 
The 
decades-long 
Furthermore, 
seriously 
jeopardized the legitimate rights and interests of Cuba 
and  other  States,  as  well  as  the  freedom  of  trade  and 
navigation, and serves no other purpose than to inflict 
tremendous  hardship  and  suffering  on  the  people  of 
Cuba, especially women and children. It must therefore 
be  lifted  immediately,  as  requested  by  the  General 
Assembly in all relevant resolutions, including the one 
just adopted today (resolution 72/4).
inasmuch  as 
international 
community faces major challenges such as food crises, 
increased poverty, unemployment and malnutrition, the 
imposition of the embargo seems more unjustifiable and 
inhumane  than  ever  and  deserves  stronger  objections 
at  the  international  level.  Additionally,  the  adoption 
of  General  Assembly  resolutions  on  the  subject  over 
the course of so many years — and with such a wide 
range  of  support  —  indicates  the  strong  objection  of 
the  international  community  to  unilateral  economic 
coercive  measures  in  general  and  to  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba in particular. Calls to put an end to that unlawful 
and  inhumane  embargo  are  a  sign  of  increasing 
sympathy for the Government and the people of Cuba.
Cuba  is  not  the  only  country  that  is  suffering 
from  United  States  sanctions.  Unjustified  sanctions 
introduced or imposed under various false pretexts by 
the United States against the Islamic Republic of Iran 
over the past four decades — even after the agreement 
on  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  and  its 
endorsement  by  the  Security  Council  —  continue  to 
target innocent people and obstruct their basic rights. 
Regrettably, unilateral coercive measures have become 
Considering the fact that such unilateral sanctions 
are  contrary  to  the  principles  of  international  law, 
the  sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-interference  in 
their  internal  affairs  and  peaceful  coexistence  among 
them,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  remains  opposed 
to  the  application  of  unilateral  economic  and  trade 
measures by the United States of America against other 
countries.  We  are  also  opposed  to  the  extraterritorial 
application  and  effects  of  such  national  legislation  on 
the sovereignty of other States and on free trade among 
nations.  We  emphasize  the  urgent  need  to  put  an  end 
to such erroneous policies and measures, as well as the 
need to ensure the full implementation of the provisions 
of the relevant General Assembly resolutions, including 
resolution 72/4, adopted today.
Mr.  Gimolieca  (Angola):  Our  delegation  also 
aligns itself with the statements of other delegations in 
strongly  condemning  the  terrorist  attack  yesterday  in 
downtown Manhattan. We express our condolences to 
the  families  of  the  victims  and  wish  those  who  were 
injured a speedy recovery.
Allow me to begin by extending a word of welcome 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba. The Republic of 
Angola  associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by 
the  representative  of  Gabon,  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of African States; the representative of the Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the  Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries;  and  the  representative  of 
Ecuador, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China (see 
A/72/PV.38).
Angola  voted 
in  favour  of  resolution  72/4, 
adopted  today  by  the  Assembly,  because  it  considers 
the  persistence  of  the  unjust  and  severe  economic, 
commercial  and 
financial  embargo,  unilaterally 
imposed by the United States against Cuba for more than 
55 years, to be a retrograde measure inflicting severe 
damage on the Cuban people, especially those that are 
most  vulnerable.  Angola  expected  the  normalization 
of  diplomatic  relations  between  the  two  countries  to 
encourage  the  American  authorities  to  take  further 
measures  towards  putting  an  end  to  the  embargo  and 
to show respect for the Cuban people, who have freely 
exercised  their  right  to  decide  on  their  own  political 
4/12 
17-35997
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.39
and economic system in order to ensure the sustainable 
development of the island.
that occurred yesterday in lower Manhattan, New York 
City. We condemn that heinous attack.
The  extraterritorial  nature  of  the  embargo  is 
reflected in the financial persecution directed against 
certain  other  countries’  banks  and  the  imposition 
of  new  fines  on  institutions  for  violating  the  rules 
imposed by the United States Government with regard 
to Cuba. That causes severe obstacles to the economic, 
cultural  and  social  development  of  the  island  and  has 
a  significant  negative  impact  on  several  sensitive 
sectors  such  as  public  health,  which  severely  affects 
the well-being of the Cuban people. In that context, we 
regret  the  measures  announced  by  the  current  Trump 
Administration that impose additional obstacles on the 
already limited trade opportunities between Cuba and 
the United States.
Angola  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  respecting, 
preserving and promoting the principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations and the provisions of international 
law, which provide for access to multilateralism and to 
collective  efforts  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security, economic growth and respect for human rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms.  My  country  recognizes 
and  once  again  congratulates  the  Secretary-General 
on  his  efforts  aimed  at  ending  the  economic,  trade 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against Cuba.
that 
its 
unconditional  support  for 
implementation  of 
the  recommendations  contained  in  resolution  71/5, 
of  26  October  2016,  on  the  topic  before  us  today.  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  appeal  once  again  to  the 
international community to renew its efforts to promote 
a  constructive  and  transparent  dialogue  between  the 
two countries in order to achieve the objectives set out 
in relevant resolutions on the matter.
the 
In 
connection,  Angola 
reiterates 
The  progress  achieved  in  2015  and  2016  showed 
that  Cuba  and  the  United  States  can  coexist  in  a 
cordial  manner  with  respect  for  their  differences.  In 
conclusion,  Angola  encourages  the  United  States  and 
Cuba to continue to work to build a relationship based 
on  dialogue,  cooperation  and  mutual  respect  for  the 
benefit of both countries and their peoples.
Mr.  Phansourivong  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  I  would 
to  express  our  deepest 
condolences to the United States, Argentina and Belgium 
for the loss of human life in the wake of the terrorist act 
like 
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic aligns itself 
with  the  statements  delivered  by  the  representatives 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Ecuador and 
Singapore on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, the 
Group of 77 and China, and the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations, respectively (see A/72/PV.38).
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  voted 
in  favour  of  resolution  72/4  in  order  to  reaffirm  our 
position that the imposition of the unilateral embargo on 
Cuba, with its extraterritorial implications, has not only 
hindered the socioeconomic development of that nation, 
but  has  also  contradicted  the  principles  and  purposes 
of the Charter of the United Nations and international 
law, as well as the sovereign equality of States and the 
freedom of international trade and navigation.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  welcomes 
the  progress  achieved  over  the  past  few  years  on  the 
re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
Republic of Cuba and the United States, including the 
reopening  of  the  embassies  in  the  respective  capitals 
of both countries. However, it is regrettable to see that 
the progress made through years of effort has now been 
compromised. Nevertheless, we hope that the embargo 
on  Cuba  will  be  lifted,  as  we  firmly  believe  that  the 
lifting  of  the  embargo  will  not  only  be  beneficial  to 
both countries, but will also benefit the region and the 
world at large.
Mr.  Castro  Cordoba  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We join others in condemning the cowardly 
terrorist attack that took place here in New York City on 
31 October and express our solidarity with the United 
States, Argentina and Belgium for the irreparable loss 
of human life.
My country associates itself with the interventions 
made on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and of the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(see A/72/PV.38). In addition, in our national capacity, 
we wish to reiterate the reasons why we voted in favour 
of resolution 72/4. We also welcome Foreign Minister 
Rodríguez Parrilla.
Costa  Rica  wishes  to  highlight  once  again  the 
historic  and  significant  progress  that  has  taken  place 
since 2014 through the process of the improvement and 
re-establishment  of  bilateral  ties  between  the  United 
States and Cuba. In that spirit, my country encourages 
17-35997
5/12
A/72/PV.39 
01/11/2017
the  parties  to  maintain  the  agreements  reached,  to 
encourage  further  bilateral  dialogue  between  the 
two  parties  and  to  replace  the  blockade,  which  has 
been in place for more than 55 years, with a fraternal 
meeting of the peoples in all areas of economic, social, 
technological and political cooperation.
In  strict  respect  for  international  law  and  the 
principles on which the Charter of the United Nations 
is  based  and  consistent  with  its  foreign  policy,  Costa 
Rica  reiterates  its  rejection  of  the  unilateral  and 
extraterritorial measures that a State may apply against 
another  by  imposing  its  own  laws  and  regulations 
on  third  countries.  Over  the  past  few  years,  Costa 
Rica  and  Cuba  have  continued  to  strengthen  their 
diplomatic relations in the fields of politics, economics 
and  cooperation.  Through  the  visit  of  the  delegation 
of  Costa  Rica  to  Cuba  in  2015,  bilateral  trade  and 
cooperation in areas such as higher education, technical 
cooperation and scientific exchange, sports and health 
have been promoted.
In  the  same  vein,  in  March,  a  memorandum  of 
understanding  on  science,  technology  and  innovation 
was  signed  between  Costa  Rica  and  Cuba  in  order  to 
promote  and  facilitate  a  cooperative  relationship  in 
such matters. That memorandum is an example of the 
constant  dialogue  between  the  two  countries  to  work 
together to coordinate development in order to support 
and  complement  the  programmes  for  strengthening 
human talent, with agreement on priority areas so as to 
be able to align efforts and achieve common objectives.
We  live  in  an  interconnected  world  in  which 
solidarity  and  respect  must  be  the  basis  of  our 
exchanges. We cannot face the problems of the present 
by  constantly  reusing  the  tools  of  the  past,  especially 
if  they  have  not  been  effective.  The  Organization, 
through the General Assembly, has manifested, clearly 
and forcefully, its disapproval of the blockade. It is time 
to definitively end it and build bridges between nations 
and peoples.
I  would  like  to  conclude  with  the  words  spoken 
by  the  President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Luis  Guillermo 
Solís  Rivera,  in  his  statement  during  the  recent 
general debate:
that 
“In 
that  unilateral 
economic sanctions are not efficient ways to punish 
Governments but can seriously harm the rights of 
peoples to well-being and development, I once again 
would like to express the opposition of my country 
regard,  considering 
to the embargo that the United States has imposed 
against  Cuba  for  55  years,  with  high  human, 
economic  and  social  costs  for  its  population”  
(A/72/PV.5, p. 24).
Costa  Rica  hopes  that  the  blockade  will  soon 
be lifted.
Mr. Rahmanto (Indonesia): I would like to express 
our  sympathy  and  condolences  to  the  people  and  the 
Government of the United States, as well to the peoples 
and the Governments of Argentina and Belgium, in the 
wake  of  the  horrendous  attack  in  New  York  City  on 
31 October. We condemn all acts of terrorism.
Indonesia aligns itself with the statements delivered 
earlier  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation and the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (see A/72/PV.38).
Indonesia would also like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/72/94)  on 
today’s agenda item.
After more than five decades, we are still witnessing 
the detrimental impacts of the long-standing embargo on 
the lives of the Cuban people. As a consequence of the 
embargo, the Cuban people have been left behind. Cuba 
has been unable to realize its full potential and improve 
its economic, trade and financial relations with the rest 
of the world. It has been unable to exercise its full rights 
to  reach  for  broader  economic  opportunities  or  build 
high-quality  public  health  care  and  education.  In  that 
respect,  there  has  been  virtually  unanimous  support 
on  the  part  of  Member  States  to  end  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba.
The  policy  of  the  United  States  in  2015  and  2016 
was encouraging and generated hope that the peoples 
of  Cuba  and  the  United  States  could  live  together  in 
an amicable environment, respecting their differences 
while being able to cooperate for the benefit of the two 
countries and peoples. It is therefore disheartening to 
witness new measures being put in place that are aimed 
at  further  tightening  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba.
Today,  Indonesia  joined  the  majority  of  Member 
States in voting in favour of resolution 72/4. Indonesia 
reaffirms  its  fundamental  belief  that  the  continued 
imposition  of  an  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba contradicts the main principles 
of international law, including the Charter of the United 
6/12 
17-35997
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.39
Nations, the norms and principles governing peaceful 
relations among States, the principles of the sovereign 
equality  of  States  and  of  non-intervention  in  States’ 
domestic  affairs,  and  international  humanitarian  law. 
Indonesia would like to emphasize that the application 
of  the  embargo  defies  the  spirit  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  urges  States  to 
refrain from promulgating and applying any unilateral 
economic,  financial  or  trade  measures  that  are  not  in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and that impede the full achievement 
of economic and social development.
To conclude, Indonesia would like to reiterate our 
support for the rights of the Cuban people to enjoy full 
freedom  in  their  economic  and  social  development. 
Towards that goal, we call for dialogue and cooperation 
as essential elements required for lifting the embargo 
against Cuba.
Mr.  Gertze  (Namibia):  The  Namibian  delegation 
joins others in extending our heartfelt condolences to 
the victims, families and friends of those who perished 
in  yesterday’s  attack  here  in  New  York.  We  condemn 
that terrorist attack in the strongest terms. 
Namibia also wishes to extend a warm welcome to 
the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla, for being here with us today.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representative of Venezuela, on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement;  the  representative  of 
Gabon, on behalf of the Group of African States; and 
the representative of Ecuador, on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China (see A/72/PV.38).
Namibia  wants  to  put  on  record  its  appreciation 
for  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/72/94)  on  the 
implementation of resolution 71/5.
In this house of the people, the people have spoken 
with a loud voice. Today’s vote condemning this long-
standing injustice reconfirms the strong resolve of the 
majority of Member States not to be silenced. We stand 
resolute in our solidarity with the Cuban people and in 
our  firm  belief  in  and  support  for  multilateralism.  If 
what we, the people of the world, want most is peace 
and security and the well-being of the citizens of world 
through  the  pursuit  of  our  development  agenda,  then 
surely  a  policy  of  exclusion,  a  policy  of  economic 
and  commercial  embargo  against  a  people  who  stand 
head  and  shoulders  above  many  of  us  with  respect  to 
showing genuine support through selfless cooperation 
in the fields of health and development, flies in the face 
of the principles and values for which we all stand. It 
undermines our collective efforts to make the world a 
better place. 
For  55  years,  Cuba  and  the  Cuban  people  have 
been  victim  of  this  unfair  and  unnecessary  action. 
The  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  is 
contrary  to  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  violates  the  rights  of  the  Cuban 
people to health and food, and their rights to education, 
sports and culture and to development. It also severely 
impacts  the  Cuban  economy.  It  affects  both  foreign 
trade  and  investments,  as  well  as  the  finances  of  the 
country.  In  the  past  year,  as  in  previous  years,  the 
income  denied  to  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Cuba  derived  from  the  export  of  goods  and  services 
remained the most impacted by the embargo.
As  Hurricane  Irma  tore  through  the  Caribbean 
in  early  September,  Cuba  faced  its  first  category-5 
hurricane  since  1937.  Many  homes  were  destroyed, 
the  electrical  grid  was  severely  damaged,  and  the 
agricultural  sector  was  heavily 
impacted.  Water 
services were also damaged. The economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba  will  severely 
impact  the  recovery  of  the  island  in  the  aftermath  of 
such  a  massive  natural  disaster.  Surely,  the  natural 
humanitarian reaction should be to lift the embargo in 
order to allow the Cubans to rebuild their island.
At this time last year we marked a historic day with 
the adoption of resolution 71/5, in which both the United 
States and Israel abstained for the first time. Indeed, we 
were all encouraged by such forward movement, as well 
as  by  the  improved  relations  earlier  in  2016.  Former 
President  Obama  recognized  that  the  blockade  was  a 
failed  and  obsolete  policy  that  should  be  terminated, 
and prior to his departure, he urged the United States 
Congress to end it.
We  were  disheartened  by  the  announcement  on 
17  June  of  the  new  policy  of  the  new  Government  of 
the  United  States  towards  Cuba  with  the  signing  of 
the  directive  entitled,  “National  Security  Presidential 
Memorandum on Strengthening the Policy of the United 
States  towards  Cuba”.  That  directive  puts  forward 
new  measures  to  tighten  the  blockade  against  Cuba. 
It  reverses  the  positive  steps  taken  by  the  previous 
Administration  and  marks  a  setback  in  the  bilateral 
relations  between  the  two  nations.  We  express  our 
17-35997
7/12
A/72/PV.39 
01/11/2017
disappointment at those new tightened measures taken 
by the Government of the United States. We urge the 
United States to reconsider those new measures.
We remain hopeful that the economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against  Cuba  will  be  fully  lifted,  that  relations  will 
improve  and  that  the  two  countries  will  restore  full 
economic  activities  to  their  mutual  benefit.  Namibia 
wishes to put on record once again its full support for 
resolution 72/4.
Ms.  Khyne  (Myanmar):  I  would  like  to  express 
our profound condolences to the families of the victims 
of yesterday’s terrorist attack in lower Manhattan and 
our  solidarity  with  the  United  States,  Argentina  and 
Belgium. We condemn all acts of terrorism.
I  am  taking  the  floor  to  explain  my  delegation’s 
position on resolution 72/4, which was just adopted by 
a large majority of Member States.
My delegation associates itself with the statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Ecuador,  on  behalf 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China;  Singapore,  on  behalf 
of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations;  and 
Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
(see A/72/PV.38).
It  has  been  more  than  five  decades  since  the 
sanctions  against  Cuba  were  imposed  and  more  than 
two decades since this item was put on the agenda of 
the United Nations. The General Assembly has adopted 
resolutions on this agenda item with an overwhelming 
majority of votes in favour annually. Yet, the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  has 
not been lifted.
Myanmar has joined the majority of Member States 
every year to vote in favour of the resolution in order 
to  demonstrate  once  again  our  firm  rejection  of  the 
unilateral coercive measure before us today, namely, the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States against Cuba, which has hindered 
efforts  by  the  Cuban  people  to  eradicate  poverty, 
promote  their  economic  and  social  development,  and 
achieve  the  goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) clearly outline the overall need to work towards 
leaving no one behind.
As a country that has experienced similar unilateral 
sanctions in the past, Myanmar fully understands that 
the imposition of sanctions on developing countries can 
cause great economic hardships, especially to the poor 
and vulnerable populations in those countries. Myanmar 
believes in the purposes and principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations, as well as in the norms 
of international law and good-neighbourliness. Nations 
should be guided by the principles enshrined in those 
guidelines,  which  stress  the  need    to  coexist,  respect 
differences, promote prosperity and ensure safety.
Myanmar, 
the 
international 
together  with 
international 
community,  has  consistently  demonstrated  that  the 
embargo,  as  a  unilateral  measure,  is  inconsistent 
with 
fundamental 
humanitarian principles and contravenes the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Moreover, it is not in line with the letter and spirit of 
the SDGs.
law, 
transgresses 
Myanmar is of the view that an immediate end to 
the economic embargo against Cuba is necessary and 
that  such  an  end  will  serve  to  promote  the  economic 
and  social  development  of  the  people  of  Cuba.  In 
that  regard,  we  urge  that  the  embargo  and  coercive 
measures  be  replaced  by  dialogue  and  cooperation. 
For those reasons, as in previous years, Myanmar has 
once  again  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution  on  this 
topic, in the hope that it will lead to the betterment of 
the  relationship  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States, 
as  well  as  the  prosperity  of  the  entire  international 
community.
Ms.  Fedorovich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
Allow  me  to  express  our  deepest  condolences  to  the 
United  States  in  connection  with  the  terrorist  act 
that  occurred  yesterday,  as  well  as  to  Argentina  and 
Belgium, which also lost citizens in that attack.
Belarus voted in favour of resolution 72/4, entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba” (see A/72/PV.38). Belarus has 
consistently been against the use of unilateral sanctions 
in foreign policy, and we believe that it is unacceptable 
to use measures of economic coercion that contravene 
the  principles  of  international  law.  We  consider  such 
economic sanctions to be a method of political pressure 
against sovereign States.
In that connection, we stress that the positive steps 
undertaken in 2015 and 2016 by the United States and 
Cuba  as  part  of  the  process  of  normalizing  bilateral 
relations  contributed  to  the  easing  of  the  unilateral 
coercive  pressure  on  Cuba.  That  process  gave  the 
8/12 
17-35997
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.39
international  community  hope  that  the  long-standing 
economic embargo against the island of freedom would 
end.  We  saw  a  clear  example  of  how  resolving  the 
situation  in  a  civilized  way,  based  on  mutual  respect 
and  cooperation  and  on  an  equal  footing,  is  not  only 
possible but can be done very quickly.
That clearly demonstrates that the principle of the 
peaceful resolution of disputes is the correct and only 
way  forward.  We  hope  that  that  constructive  process 
will  continue  in  spite  of  the  maintenance,  and  even 
the  recent  strengthening,  of  the  restrictive  measures 
against  Cuba,  including  plans  to  introduce  additional 
sanctions to the existing trade embargo. That situation 
not only has a negative impact on the development of 
the Cuban economy and the citizens of Cuba but also 
affects inhabitants of the United States.
Belarus remains committed to the need to resolve 
disputes between nations through realistic dialogue, as 
opposed to a policy of economic and political pressure 
of sanctions. We have stated repeatedly that attempts by 
some States to change the domestic political system of 
others through the use of military, political, economic  
or  other  means  of  pressure  are  unacceptable.  Belarus 
calls  for  the  full,  comprehensive  and  irreversible  end 
to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against Cuba by the United States.
Mr. Miangar (Chad) (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  Chad,  I  would  like  to  join  all  other  delegations  in 
expressing my condolences to the families of the victims 
and to the American people following the terrorist act 
committed yesterday in New York City. Chad forcefully 
condemns  that  cowardly  and  ignoble  act,  and  we 
express our solidarity to the American Government, as 
well as our sympathy to the Governments of Argentina 
and Belgium, which also lost nationals in that attack.
Chad aligns itself with the statements made by the 
representatives  of  Ecuador,  Gabon  and  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
respectively, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, the 
Group of African States and the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation (see A/72/PV.38). Nevertheless, I wish to 
make the following statement in my national capacity.
Chad welcomes the vote in favour of the resolution 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba”  (resolution  72/4).  Chad, 
wishing, on the one hand, to safeguard respect for the 
principle  of  sovereignty  and  non-interference  in  the 
internal affairs of States and, on the other, to preserve 
cooperative  relations  between  States,  was  among  the 
first countries to applaud the restoration of diplomatic 
relations between the United States and Cuba.
With  a  view  to  encouraging  the  creation  of 
favourable  conditions  for  the  consolidation  of  the 
progress  made  on  the  path  towards  the  normalization 
of relations between the two States, Chad’s most senior 
officials  have  advocated  at  every  opportunity  for  the 
definitive  lifting  of  the  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba. 
Most recently, during the general debate of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  the  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Chad, representing the President 
of the Republic, stated that:
the 
“Chad  welcomed  the  resumption  of  diplomatic 
relations  between  the  United  States  and  Cuba. 
There is no longer any obstacle to the normalization 
of  relations  between 
two  countries.  My 
country  believes,  therefore,  that  maintaining  the 
decades-long  embargo  against  Cuba  is  unfair  and 
counterproductive.” (A/72/PV.21, p. 18).
It is in that spirit that Chad voted in favour of today’s 
resolution. The overwhelming majority vote in favour 
of the resolution reinforces the position of my country, 
and that position, along with that of all Member States, 
seeks to extricate Cuba and its people from the current 
situation,  which  has  undermined  its  economic  efforts 
for decades.
Chad  believes  that  the  definitive  lifting  of  the 
embargo imposed against Cuba would enable Cuba to 
make a greater contribution to the implementation of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the  development 
of international trade and solidarity among States. The 
presence of Cuban doctors in Chad and other countries 
to  ease  the  suffering  of  our  peoples  is  concrete  proof 
of the important role that that friendly country plays in 
international solidarity.
therefore 
reiterates 
to 
Chad 
the 
Government of the United States of America to follow 
the will of the international community as expressed by 
Member States.
its  appeal 
Ms. Williams (Saint Kitts and Nevis): Saint Kitts 
and  Nevis  would  like  to  express  condolences  to  the 
United States, Argentina and Belgium in the light of the 
tragedy yesterday, and we condemn all acts of terrorism.
Saint Kitts and Nevis adds its voice in support of 
agenda  item  42,  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
17-35997
9/12
A/72/PV.39 
01/11/2017
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”,  and  wishes 
to  give  its  reasons  for  voting  in  favour  of  resolution 
72/4, adopted today by the majority of the membership 
of  the  United  Nations  (see  A/72/PV.38).  This  is  an 
extremely  important  debate  that  speaks  to  the  very 
core of international law, the principles of sovereignty 
and non-intervention, and the strengthened role of the 
United Nations in international affairs.
against  Cuba.  The  fact  that  the  majority  of  Member 
States have traditionally voted in favour of the annual 
draft  resolution  on  the  topic  signifies  the  overriding 
sentiment  that  the  embargo  is  wrong  on  all  levels. 
In  that  connection,  we  implore  all  Member  States  to 
respect  the  sanctity  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
decisions  it  takes.  Failure  to  do  that  undermines  the 
functioning of the United Nations system.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  very  good  relations 
with  the  United  States  of  America.  It  remains  one  of 
our closest and strongest partners, and we respect the 
role that the United States has played in international 
relations and in the establishment and promotion of the 
Organization. It is a global leader, and we acknowledge 
and remain grateful for its role in international affairs.
Nevertheless,  my  delegation  associates  itself  with 
the statements made by the representatives of Venezuela, 
Ecuador  and  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the 
Group of 77 and China, and the Caribbean Community, 
respectively  (see  A/72/PV.38).  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
in  its  contribution  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
on this topic (A/72/94), advises that we do not support 
or  implement  any  laws  that  affect  the  free  flow  of 
international trade. We also advise that we do not apply 
laws with extraterritorial effect, which impinge on the 
sovereignty of other States and the legitimate interests 
of entities or persons under their jurisdiction.
That  is  a  principled  position  that  extends  to  all 
States  Members  of  the  Organization.  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis is therefore concerned that the embargo imposed 
on Cuba still persists. Cuba is a close ally of Saint Kitts 
and  Nevis  and  has  aided  in  the  economic  and  social 
development of our country, especially in the areas of 
agriculture, education and health. Cuba could do even 
more internationally if the embargo were removed.
We consider the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo to be a burden imposed on our brothers and 
sisters in Cuba. The negative impact on the economy of 
that small island developing State is quite profound and 
unfair to the people of Cuba. No country should be left 
behind, especially at this critical time in history as we 
all strive to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 
by  2030.  This  is  a  time  for  international  cooperation 
and the pooling of resources to assist one another as we 
face up to that great challenge.
It  is  my  delegation’s  hope  that  the  two  countries, 
Cuba and the United States, will be able to improve their 
relationship and embark upon a process of partnership 
and cooperation. We can learn a lot from one another, 
but the embargo remains an impediment to that process. 
That  is  why  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  supported  today’s 
resolution 72/4. We reiterate our call on both countries 
to find common ground, so that the entire international 
community can move on from this impasse.
Mr. Vieira (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): Brazil aligns 
itself with the statements made by the representative of 
Ecuador  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and 
by  the  representative  of  El  Salvador  on  behalf  of  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(see A/72/PV.38). We would like to make the following 
comments in our national capacity.
for 
On behalf of my delegation, I also warmly welcome 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, to this important debate.
For  decades,  Brazil  has  advocated 
the 
normalization  of  diplomatic  relations  between  the 
United  States  of  America  and  Cuba.  In  that  context, 
the Brazilian Government was delighted to follow the 
process  of  dialogue  and  the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations between the two countries carried out in 2015 
and  2016.  We  regret,  therefore,  the  recent  measures 
announced by the current Administration of the United 
States that seek to reinforce the economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba,  including  its 
extraterritorial dimensions.
From Brazil’s point of view, the blockade represents 
an  anachronistic  policy  that  has  negative  effects  not 
only  for  Cuba,  but  for  our  entire  region.  In  addition 
to  being  a  flagrant  violation  of  the  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations and international law, the 
blockade continues to negatively affect the welfare of 
the Cuban people, especially the most vulnerable.
That is why Saint Kitts and Nevis once again calls 
on the United States of America to remove the embargo 
The  lifting  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  a 
universal cause and has the unwavering support of the 
10/12 
17-35997
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.39
international community, as made explicit by the voting 
results  on  the  resolutions  on  this  topic  in  previous 
sessions  of  the  General  Assembly —  particularly  last 
year,  when  there  were  no  votes  against.  The  result  of 
the  voting  this  morning  reiterates  the  solidarity  of 
the  international  community  with  the  people  and  the 
Government of Cuba.
My delegation hopes that dialogue and cooperation 
between  the  two  countries  will  resume  soon,  with 
the  aim  of  overcoming  the  setbacks  to  the  process  of 
normalizing  bilateral  relations  and  thereby  leading  to 
the end of the blockade.
Ms.  Carrión  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First 
of  all,  we  would  like  to  join  other  delegations  in 
condemning the terrorist attack that took place in this 
city  yesterday,  as  well  as  to  express  our  condolences 
to  the  victims  from  the  United  States,  Argentina 
and Belgium.
We wish to welcome the presence of the Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla.  We  also  express  our  gratitude  for  the  report 
on  today’s  agenda  item  presented  by  the  Secretary-
General (A/72/94).
Uruguay  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
by  the  representative  of  El  Salvador  on  behalf  of  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
and by the representative of Ecuador on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China (see A/72/PV.38).
As  in  previous  years,  Uruguay  voted  in  favour 
this  year 
of  resolution  72/4,  which  once  again 
was  submitted  by  the  delegation  of  Cuba  on  the 
understanding  that  the  blockade  against  that  country 
contravenes  the  rules  of  international  law  and  is 
contrary to the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  with  regard  to  the 
principles of non-intervention, the peaceful settlement 
of disputes and the legal equality of States.
As a matter of principle, Uruguay rejects and does 
not recognize in its national legislation any other State’s 
extraterritorial  application  of  domestic  laws,  as  well 
as  any  direct  or  indirect  mechanism  that  constitutes 
unilateral  actions  by  a  State  with  the  objective  of 
sanctioning  the  sovereign  decisions  of  another  State, 
whether it be political, economic, commercial, social, 
cultural  or  anything  else  in  nature.  In  that  regard, 
we  condemn  the  application  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures by the United States against Cuba.
Against that backdrop, our country considers that 
the  sanctions  imposed  and  the  extraterritorial  laws 
adopted against Cuba represent not only a violation of 
international  law,  but  also  have  serious  consequences 
for 
that  brotherly 
Caribbean  country  and  constitute  a  way  of  depriving 
the Cuban people of their right to development, as well 
as unquantifiable, non-material damage to the dignity 
and sovereignty of the Cuban people.
the  economic  development  of 
By voting in favour of today’s resolution, Uruguay 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a 
legitimate  and  effective 
instrument  for  resolving 
disputes between States and for promoting international 
cooperation, human rights, security and understanding 
among peoples.
Ms.  Yánez  Loza  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
First  of  all,  allow  me  to  join  others  in  condemning 
yesterday’s  terrorist  act  and  to  offer  my  condolences, 
on behalf of the people and the Government of Ecuador, 
to the Governments of the United States, Belgium and 
Argentina, all of which suffered losses in the attack.
Speaking  in  its  national  capacity,  and  without 
prejudice to our role as Chair of the Group of 77 and 
China, my delegation aligns itself with the statements 
made  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries and the Community of Latin American and 
Caribbean States (see A/72/PV.38).
My delegation now wishes to comment on agenda 
item  42,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”.
As  in  previous  years,  we  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution  72/4.  In  accordance  with  the  purposes, 
principles and spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, 
in  particular  the  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality 
of  States  and  non-intervention  and  non-interference 
in  States’  internal  affairs,  which  are  also  set  out  in 
our  Constitution,  Ecuador  has  consistently  spoken  in 
support  of  Cuba  and  for  the  lifting  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  that  was  imposed 
55 years ago by the United States.
In thanking the Secretary-General for his report on 
the topic (A/72/94), we feel it necessary to emphasize 
that that document also shows the extent of the effects 
of  the  blockade  and  includes  the  almost  universal 
call  on  the  part  of  the  members  of  the  international 
community  for  those  unilateral  measures  to  cease. 
17-35997
11/12
A/72/PV.39 
01/11/2017
We  therefore  regret  that  the  blockade  continues  to  be 
fully implemented and continues to tighten, regressing 
sharply from the policies adopted in 2015 and 2016 by 
the previous Administration of the United States.
We  are  concerned  about  the  prolonged  negative 
effects of the blockade, given its impact on the economy 
and  development  of  Cuba  and  the  obstacles  it  poses 
to  the  fulfilment  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  to  which  we  are  all  committed  and  for 
which  we  are  all  responsible.  In  that  regard,  we  also 
recall the policy of solidarity and cooperation that Cuba 
has maintained for decades, particularly in matters of 
health emergencies. Once again, Ecuador calls for the 
immediate cessation of the unilateral measures imposed 
by  the  United  States,  as  we  are  convinced  that  their 
elimination  will  benefit  not  only  Cuba  but  the  entire 
international community.
Mr.  Ntonga  (Zimbabwe):  The  delegation  of 
Zimbabwe conveys sincere and heartfelt condolences to 
the United States, Argentina and Belgium on the loss of 
lives as a result of the horrific attack yesterday in New 
York City. Our thoughts and prayers go to the bereaved 
families in this time of loss, pain and sorrow.
We  associate  ourselves  with 
the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Ecuador  on  behalf 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  by  the  representative 
of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  by  the 
representative  of  Gabon  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States, respectively (see A/72/PV.38).
Together with 190 other countries, Zimbabwe voted 
in favour of resolution 72/4, because we firmly believe 
that  the  embargo  against  Cuba  constitutes  a  violation 
of the principles of international law and the purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  embargo  also  constitutes  a  violation  of 
human rights, as it hurts the average Cuban person. It 
also infringes upon the rights of other countries to trade 
freely with Cuba.
Despite  the  embargo,  Cuba  has  continued  to  play 
constructive  roles  in  international  affairs.  There  are 
many  examples  of  Cuba’s  international  statesmanship 
and  good  global  citizenship.  Africa  can  attest  to  the 
intervention by Cuba when the Ebola crisis broke out in 
West Africa in 2015 and the World Health Organization 
issued a global appeal for medical staff to help fight the 
crisis. Despite its own severe economic challenges as a 
result of the trade embargo, Cuba was among the first 
countries to respond, as it sent legions of doctors to the 
region to deal with the crisis.
We commend the people of Cuba for their resilience 
despite facing years of an unwarranted embargo.
The international community has once again spoken 
in  favour  of  dialogue  and  cooperation.  We  hope  that 
that humble and constructive message has been heard.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
have heard the last speaker in explanation of vote after 
the voting.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 42?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
12/12 
17-35997
