United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
36th plenary meeting
Monday, 30 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 76
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/349)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/72/342, 
A/72/372 and A/72/372/Corr.1)
Draft resolution (A/72/L.3)
The  President:  I  am  pleased  to  welcome  Her 
Excellency  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  to  the 
General Assembly.
The  1998  Rome  Statute  is  a  landmark  on  the 
journey  to  universal  justice  and  the  rule  of  law.  Its 
adoption  demonstrated  our  commitment  to  ending 
impunity for the most serious crimes of concern to the 
international  community.  It  reflected  a  joint  resolve 
to  guarantee  lasting  respect  for  and  enforcement  of 
international justice.
Now,  almost  two  decades  later,  we  must  reaffirm 
our determination to stand up for victims and prevent 
recurrence  of  the  most  serious  crimes.  The  firm 
international  commitment 
is 
demonstrated by the fact that almost two thirds of United 
Nations Members are parties to the Rome Statute.
these  ends 
towards 
I  want  to  emphasize  two  elements  of  the  Court’s 
work. The first is the role of the International Criminal 
Court  in  the  delivery  of  justice.  While  States  retain 
the  primary  responsibility  for  exercising  criminal 
jurisdiction over those responsible for serious crimes, 
the International Criminal Court plays a complementary 
role: it acts when national judicial systems have failed 
to ensure accountability.
By fulfilling its functions, the Court carries out a 
vital role. It contributes to strengthening accountability, 
protecting human rights and promoting the rule of law. 
These  support  our  ultimate  goal  of  achieving  a  more 
peaceful  and  just  world  for  all  people.  However,  the 
cooperation of States with the Court is critical so as to 
enable it to effectively fulfil its mission, as provided for 
in the Rome Statute.
The  victims  must  not  be  denied  the  justice  they 
deserve.  Most  have  faced  the  gravest  indignity  and 
abuse, ultimately paying the highest price. Victims and 
their families have suffered the greatest loss and often 
inhuman treatment. Their rights must not be sacrificed 
on  the  altar  of  political  expediency.  They  deserve 
justice. If we fail to deliver, we call into question our 
own relevance as guarantors of human rights and justice.
The second element is the preventive impact of the 
Court’s work. From the very beginning, the International 
Criminal  Court  was  meant  to  be  an  instrument  not 
only for the prosecution, but also for the prevention of 
international crimes. Strengthening the enforcement of 
international  law  helps  to  deter  potential  perpetrators 
from  carrying  out  or  continuing  criminal  conduct. 
Furthermore, as the Court works to fulfil its mandate 
under the Statute, it supports the work we are doing to 
promote justice and the rule of law and to sustain peace.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-35155 (E)
*1735155*
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
Finally,  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court reaffirms the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Achieving  its 
universality  was  considered  a  means  to  guarantee 
that  such  unimaginable  atrocities,  which  represent 
a  threat  to  the  peace,  security  and  well-being  of  the 
world,  would  not  go  unpunished.  Ending  impunity  is 
an  important  way  to  prevent  future  atrocities.  All  of 
us have an obligation to prevent and respond to these 
grave crimes.
As we consider this agenda item today, I trust we 
will remind ourselves of our common commitment to 
peace and international justice.
It is now my honour to invite Judge Fernández de 
Gurmendi to take the floor.
Judge  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  (International 
Criminal Court) (spoke in Spanish): I would like to take 
this  opportunity  to  extend  my  respectful  greetings  to 
the  Spanish-speaking  delegations  before  proceeding 
with the presentation of my report (see A/72/349) in the 
two working languages of the Court, which are French 
and English.
(spoke in English)
I am honoured to address the General Assembly to 
present the Court’s annual report to the United Nations 
for the third and last time, as my mandate as President 
and  Judge  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
will expire in March 2018.
When I first addressed the Assembly two years ago, 
following  my  election  as  President  (see  A/70/PV.48), 
I  emphasized  that  the  main  priority  I  had  set  for  my 
mandate was to enhance the Court’s effectiveness and 
efficiency. I thought then, and remain convinced today, 
that  cooperation  is  linked  to  performance.  The  Court 
must constantly strive to improve its governance, as well 
as the speed and quality of the justice that it delivers, in 
order to enhance its credibility and foster support.
I am glad to say that much effort has been put into 
fulfilling this goal in all organs of the Court, and much 
progress  has  been  made.  The  judges  have  sought  to 
improve  and  accelerate  judicial  proceedings  through 
a  collective  assessment  of  the  legal  framework  and 
methods  of  work.  Three  retreats  of  judges  have  been 
a  central  vehicle  to  foster  the  development  of  a  more 
cohesive judicial culture among the judges of the Court, 
who  come  from  different  backgrounds,  legal  systems 
and  traditions.  These  retreats  have  served  to  channel 
collegial  discussions  across  Chambers  and  Divisions, 
allow them to revise entire phases of the judicial cycle, 
and generate a number of concrete initiatives to amend, 
where  necessary,  the  legal  framework,  practices  and 
methods of work. The third and last retreat took place in 
Kraków, Poland, this year, focusing on appeals issues. 
The two previous retreats, held in 2015 in Nuremberg, 
Germany, and in 2016 in Limburg, the Netherlands, had 
focused on pre-trial and trial issues, respectively.
These  collective  discussions  were  unprecedented. 
For the first time at the Court, all judges accepted that 
judicial independence within their respective cases and 
Chambers was in no way incompatible with exchanging 
views and experiences with a view to identifying best 
practices  and  recommending  common  responses  to 
some  challenges.  These  ground-breaking  efforts  have 
generated a number of initiatives and produced several 
concrete outcomes.
A  publicly  available  Chambers  Practice  Manual 
seeks  to  harmonize  the  approach  to  certain  matters 
by  clarifying  how  certain  procedural  phases  should 
be  carried  out.  To  the  extent  possible,  judges  have 
sought  to  improve  the  Court’s  work  through  practice 
rather  than  amendments  to  the  legal  framework, 
which  should  remain  exceptional.  However,  certain 
specific  amendments  have  been  introduced  to  the 
Rules  of  Procedure  and  Evidence  and  Regulations  of 
the Court. We have also improved the structure of the 
legal support staff at the Court. The reforms we have 
put in place are already having a visible impact on our 
courtrooms  and  cases,  including  a  clear  and  drastic 
reduction  of  the  time  required  for  some  phases  or 
aspects  of  proceedings.  We  have  also  made  progress 
in  the  development  of  performance  indicators,  and  a 
third report, which will be produced at the end of this 
year, will be accompanied by a fuller set of data, which, 
we  hope,  will  help  illustrate  the  work  of  the  Court 
across cases.
Enhancing the efficiency of the Court has become 
critical  at  a  time  in  which  the  Court  is  very  busy  at 
various stages of proceedings and the heavy workload 
is likely to continue in future. As I mentioned before, 
much  progress  has  been  achieved  in  this  regard, 
although, of course, much more is required. The Court 
is not perfect, but it is working, it has matured and it is 
delivering on its mandate.
As  part  of  improving  its  governance,  we  have 
also  sought  to  strengthen  the  safeguards  that  ensure 
2/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
that  officials  and  staff  members  of  the  Court  uphold 
the highest standards of integrity and professionalism 
in  the  exercise  of  their  functions.  I  would  like  to 
emphasize  in  this  regard  that  a  system  of  disclosure 
of  financial  information  for  certain  elected  officials 
and senior managers has been in place since 2015, that 
the  Independent  Oversight  Mechanism  created  by  the 
Assembly of States Parties is now fully operational, and 
that a new policy for the protection of whistle-blowers 
is  being  developed  at  the  Court.  Also,  in  this  regard, 
we have started a review of all relevant existing legal 
provisions,  including  codes  of  ethics.  We  consider 
it  important  to  assess  the  adequacy  of  this  legal 
framework in order to identify any lacunae, introduce 
amendments, if necessary, and make recommendations 
to the Assembly of States Parties, if appropriate.
As  I  indicated,  the  Court  is  now  confronted  with 
a  heavy  workload,  and  that  is  likely  to  continue  next 
year.  At  the  start  of  the  reporting  period,  convictions 
or sentences were issued in two trials against a total of 
six persons. The first one concerns Mr. Ahmad Al-Faqi 
Al-Mahdi for the destruction of world-heritage property 
in Timbuktu, Mali. The second one was brought by the 
Prosecutor against Mr. Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo and 
four co-accused for offences against the administration 
of justice related to the alleged corruption of witnesses 
in the main case against Mr. Bemba. The conviction and 
sentences in this second case are now being considered 
on appeal.
Three  trials  are  currently  ongoing  before  the 
Chambers  of  the  Court.  The  most  recent  of  these  is 
the  trial  against  Mr.  Dominic  Ongwen,  which  started 
on 6 December 2016. More than 10 years had elapsed 
since  the  arrest  warrants  of  the  Court  were  issued 
against him, together with Mr. Joseph Kony and others, 
for  alleged  crimes  against  humanity  committed  by 
members  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  in  northern 
Uganda.  Mr.  Ongwen  finally  surrendered  of  his  own 
free will and was transferred to the Court on 17 January 
2015,  thus  allowing  judicial  proceedings  to  start.  The 
trial  is  now  progressing  at  a  high  speed.  It  is  a  huge 
development that a trial is now finally being conducted 
before  our  judges.  It  also  illustrates  the  enormous 
challenges  that  the  Court  needs  to  confront  for  its 
cases to reach the courtroom. While the Court is doing 
its  best  to  accelerate  the  pace  of  proceedings,  many 
of  the  difficulties  are  beyond  its  control  and  can  be 
overcome only with the cooperation of the international 
community.  Without  an  army  and  without  police,  the 
Court’s  most  notable  single  challenge,  among  many 
others, remains the arrest of suspects.
Another  illustration  of  a  similar  problem  is  the 
ongoing 
trial  against  Mr.  Bosco  Ntaganda,  who 
has  been  accused  of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity  allegedly  committed  in  the  Ituri  district  of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Mr. Ntaganda 
was subject of an arrest warrant for several years, from 
2006  until  2013,  when  he  finally  also  surrendered 
voluntarily  and  was  transferred  to  the  Court.  Trial 
hearings are expected to finish early next year.
Trials  are 
The third trial in progress is the case of Mr. Laurent 
Gbagbo  and  Mr.  Charles  Blé  Goudé,  both  accused  of 
crimes  against  humanity  allegedly  committed  during 
post-election  violence 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire  between 
December  2010  and  April  2011.  The  Prosecution  is 
currently  presenting  its  evidence,  and  the  trial  is 
expected to continue throughout next year.
the  most  visible  and 
the  most 
resource-intensive work at the Court. However, a lot is 
also happening in the Pre-Trial and Appeals Divisions. 
Some of it may go unnoticed or, in fact, be under seal, 
as shown by the unsealing of the arrest warrant against 
Mr. Al-Tuhamy Mohamed Khaled earlier this year. He 
is suspected of crimes against humanity and war crimes 
that were allegedly committed on Libyan territory from 
February to August 2011.
The work of the Pre-Trial and Trial Divisions also 
has an impact on the workload of the Appeals Division, 
which  is  now  dealing  with  interlocutory  appeals, 
appeals  in  relation  to  reparations  proceedings,  and, 
most notably, appeals against the final conviction and 
sentences issued in two cases. One of these is the case 
I  have  already  referred  to:  the  case  against  Mr.  Jean-
Pierre  Bemba  Gombo  and  four  others  for  offences 
against  the  administration  of  the  Court.  The  other 
is  in  the  main  case  against  Mr.  Bemba  for  failure  to 
punish or prevent crimes of rape, murder and pillaging 
that  were  allegedly  committed  by  his  subordinates  in 
the  Central  African  Republic  in  2002  and  2003.  The 
Appeals Chamber is expected to issue its judgment in 
those two cases in the first quarter of next year.
(spoke in French)
As  I  have  just  described,  the  Court  is  seized 
of  a  number  of  cases  that  are  in  different  stages  of 
judicial  proceedings.  The  Prosecutor  is  continuing 
to  10 
her 
investigative  activities  with 
respect 
17-35155
3/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
situations,  as  well  as  preliminary  examinations  in 
relation  to  10  countries  on  four  continents.  None 
of  these  activities  would  be  possible  without  the 
cooperation  of  States  —  parties  and  non-parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute  —  and  organizations.  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  acknowledge  the  excellent 
cooperation we receive from a large number of States, 
including  most  of  the  countries  in  which  there  are 
ongoing investigations.
At the same time, it is of grave concern that several 
suspects remain at large, despite arrest warrants having 
been issued by the Court. As I have already said, the 
arrest  of  suspects  remains  the  main  challenge  for  the 
Court. In total, requests for arrest and transfer issued 
by the Court are outstanding against 15 persons, in six 
different situations. With regard to our justice efforts, it 
is essential that those individuals be brought before the 
Court. I call on all States to contribute to achieving that 
end. I also urge the Security Council, which referred the 
situations in Darfur and Libya to the Prosecutor, to take 
measures to ensure full cooperation with the Court.
The  most  recent  arrest  warrant,  now  outstanding, 
was issued on 15 August against Mr. Mahmoud Mustafa 
Busayf Al-Werfalli in relation to the situation in Libya. 
He  is  suspected  of  having  committed  and  ordered 
murder  as  a  war  crime  in  relation  to  events  that  took 
place  in  Benghazi  and  the  surrounding  area  between 
June 2016 and July 2017.
Bringing the alleged perpetrators of the most serious 
international  crimes  to  justice  is  the  core  mandate  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  Indeed,  the  Court 
was created in the belief that those crimes constitute a 
threat to peace and security. The Court was also created 
in the belief that investigating and prosecuting them will 
help prevent further atrocities, thereby contributing to 
sustainable peace. In its work, the Court does not target 
States or regions; rather, it seeks to protect the victims 
of such crimes. It is therefore essential to ensure that 
victims  understand  the  work  of  the  Court  and  have 
sufficient ownership of justice efforts.
The Rome Statute recognizes that point and, for the 
first time, contains elements intended to give victims a 
voice in all stages of the proceedings, as participants in 
their own right, and not merely as witnesses of crimes. 
The Rome Statute allows victims to provide information 
to  the  Prosecutor  and  participate  in  the  judicial 
proceedings to express their views and concerns.
Victims are indeed central to our work. As part of 
our measures to enhance performance, much has been 
done to improve the way that we communicate and reach 
out to victims, so that they have sufficient knowledge 
of  our  work  and  their  rights  in  our  proceedings. 
In  the  Ongwen  case,  for  example,  proceedings  are 
broadcast regularly at viewing sessions in the affected 
communities.  In  the  Central  African  Republic,  the 
Court’s  enhanced  field-office  capacity  has  made  it 
possible to extend outreach activities to many locations 
beyond  Bangui.  In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  radio  and  television 
programmes are broadcast on a regular basis.
Almost 13,000 victims are currently participating 
in  various  International  Criminal  Court  proceedings 
through legal representatives, including more than 4,000 
victims in the most recent Ongwen case. The increasing 
number of victims willing to participate demonstrates 
both the success of the Court in improving the access 
of  victims  to  justice  and  the  enormous  challenge  that 
lies  ahead.  Indeed,  the  participation  of  sometimes 
thousands  of  victims  raises  a  number  of  legal  and 
operational  challenges,  as  such  participation  must  be 
genuine and meaningful without affecting the right of 
the accused to a fair and expeditious trial.
Furthermore,  as  victims  participate  through  legal 
representation, one particular challenge is to ensure that 
legal  counsel  properly  channel  the  voices  of  victims. 
Chambers  have  applied  different  systems  to  that  end, 
but further reflection will be needed in that regard.
Reparations  for  the  harm  suffered  are  another 
crucial  aspect  of  the  ICC’s  focus  on  victims.  As  the 
General  Assembly  is  aware,  the  Rome  Statute  is  the 
first instrument of its kind to provide for the possibility 
of ordering reparations to victims in case of conviction. 
Following 
trials, 
reparations 
proceedings are now ongoing in four cases.
the  completion  of 
Last year, reparations were ordered in the case of 
Mr.  Germain  Katanga,  who  was  convicted  of  crimes 
committed during the attack on the village of Bogoro, 
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  The  Trial 
Chamber  awarded  both 
individual  and  collective 
reparations  to  the  victims  of  the  crimes  of  which 
Mr.  Katanga  was  convicted.  The  Chamber  set  the 
amount  of  his  liability  at  $1  million.  The  reparations 
order in that case has been appealed.
Most recently, collective and individual reparations, 
as  well  as  some  symbolic  measures,  were  ordered  in 
the case of Mr. Al-Mahdi, related to the destruction of 
4/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
religious and historic buildings in Timbuktu, Mali. The 
Legal  Representative  of  Victims  has  filed  an  appeal 
against the reparations order.
As part of the reparations system, States parties to 
the Rome Statute established a Trust Fund for Victims, 
funded  by  voluntary  donations  from  States  and  other 
donors.  The  Trust  Fund  can  contribute  financially  to 
implementing  reparations  orders  in  cases  in  which 
the convicted party is indigent, but it can also provide 
broader  assistance  to  victims  who  suffered  damages 
resulting  from  crimes  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court extending beyond the confines of specific cases. 
In  northern  Uganda,  for  example,  the  Trust  Fund 
has  been  active  for  10  years  in  working  with  local 
non-governmental  organizations  on  projects  aimed 
at  mentally  and  physically  rehabilitating  victims.  I 
had  the  opportunity  to  personally  visit  some  of  those 
projects  earlier  this  year,  and  noted  first  hand  in  my 
discussions with victims who are benefiting from these 
programmes the importance of the assistance that the 
Fund is providing them.
Reparations  and  assistance  depend  on  voluntary 
contributions  to  the  Fund.  I  stress  the  importance 
of  those  contributions  to  ensuring  the  success  of  the 
system and take this opportunity to thank all States that 
have already donated to the Fund, in particular for the 
donations made this year.
As  I  have  already  underscored,  the  Court  is 
confronting  many  challenges  and  difficulties  that  can 
be overcome only with the full cooperation of States, 
organizations and civil society. Although the Court is 
not part of the United Nations, it shares its goals and 
values. It must frequently intervene in situations that are 
also of concern to the Organization. As the Assembly is 
aware, the ICC and the United Nations are also formally 
linked through the Relationship Agreement. Continued 
cooperation  of  the  United  Nations  is  crucial  for  the 
work of the International Criminal Court.
I  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  Secretary-
General  António  Guterres  and  his  predecessor,  Mr 
Ban  Ki-moon,  for  supporting  the  ICC.  The  Court 
also  greatly  appreciates  the  excellent  relations  that  it 
enjoys  with  the  Legal  Counsel  and  other  high-level 
officials  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  with  a 
number of the Organization’s programmes, funds and 
specialized agencies.
United  Nations  cooperation  with  the  Court  takes 
several  forms.  It  includes  logistical  and  security 
assistance  in  the  field,  as  well  as  judicial  assistance, 
such as the disclosure of documents and making United 
Nations staff available as providers of information and 
witnesses.  All  those  various  forms  of  cooperation, 
which are provided on a cost-reimbursement basis, are 
highly valuable to the Court.
(spoke in English)
Over the past 30 years, the concept of accountability 
has  figured  prominently  on  the  global  agenda.  It  is 
now widely accepted that there is an obligation to end 
impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to 
the  international  community:  genocide,  war  crimes, 
and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  emergence  of 
this  principle  as  a  norm  under  international  law  has 
changed the parameters for the pursuit of peace. There 
is now an expectation that there will be accountability 
for  the  most  serious  crimes,  and  the  conviction  that 
accountability  is  necessary  for  achieving  sustainable 
peace.  The  question  is  no  longer  whether  to  pursue 
justice, but rather when and how.
The  International  Criminal  Court 
is  playing 
a  central  role  in  the  international  criminal-justice 
system,  and  it  is  making  important  contributions  to 
ensuring  accountability  for  the  gravest  international 
crimes. However, despite all the progress, there are still 
huge gaps where impunity continues to flourish. These 
gaps  can  be  addressed  only  through  the  joint  justice 
efforts of international, regional and national systems. 
No single jurisdiction alone can deal with this type of 
crimes, which involve multiple perpetrators, as well as 
thousands or even hundreds of thousands of victims. It 
is essential to emphasize in particular that each State 
has  the  primary  responsibility  to  prevent,  investigate 
and prosecute genocide, crimes against humanity and 
war  crimes.  International  and  regional  jurisdictions 
can  only  supplement,  but  never  replace,  the  actions 
of States.
The  International  Criminal  Court  was  explicitly 
established  as  a  complementary  mechanism  of  last 
resort  intended  to  address  only  situations  in  which 
the  relevant  States  fail  to  act.  As  a  positive  result  of 
this  complementary  system,  an  increasing  number  of 
States have updated their national legislation to be able 
to investigate and prosecute international crimes at the 
domestic level. Others have also established specialized 
units within their justice systems in order to deal with 
these types of crimes.
17-35155
5/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
All such initiatives are commendable and necessary 
if  we  are  to  establish  an  effective  system  of  global 
justice. That is why it is also important to deploy every 
effort  to  enhance  national  capacity  to  investigate  and 
prosecute mass crimes. Although capacity-building as 
such is not the task of the ICC, we can assist in reflecting 
upon the way forward and make our expertise available 
where necessary. Just last week, the Court convened a 
regional seminar in the Niger, with particular emphasis 
on complementarity.
It  is  also  important  to  deploy  efforts  to  enhance 
membership  in  the  ICC  system.  To  this  effect,  we 
cooperate  closely  with  other  actors  promoting  the 
universality of the Rome Statute, such as States parties 
to the Statute, international and regional organizations, 
and civil society. Promoting the universal participation 
in  the  Rome  Statute  is  of  fundamental  importance  so 
as  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy  of 
the institution and its capacity to contribute to the rule 
of law, justice, and sustainable peace and development.
We  have  undertaken  a  number  of  initiatives  this 
year  that  foster  both  cooperation  with  the  Court  and 
the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  I  would  like  to 
mention in particular two important seminars that took 
place  this  year:  one  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and  the 
other in the Republic of Korea. The Court is grateful 
to  the  European  Commission  and  all  others  that  have 
financially supported these and other events organized 
by the Court aimed at advancing dialogue with States 
and other key partners. I would also like to especially 
thank  all  the  States  that  agreed  to  host  meetings  of 
the Court for their hospitality.
Last  month,  I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  the 
Pacific  Islands  Forum  Leaders’  Meeting  in  Samoa, 
where  we  held  an  ICC  workshop  and  engaged  in 
constructive  discussions  with  many  of  the  leaders 
present. There was broad recognition of the importance 
of the ICC and the rule of law for the protection of small 
and medium-sized countries in particular. I am deeply 
grateful to the Government of Samoa and the secretariat 
of  the  Forum  for  facilitating  my  participation  in  this 
meeting.  It  was  a  unique  opportunity  to  reach  out  to 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  from  the  region  and 
encourage greater participation of Pacific Island States 
in the ICC.
The quest for accountability is a work in progress. 
There is much to celebrate, but more concerted efforts 
are required to investigate and prosecute international 
crimes  at  all  levels.  To  achieve  effective  deterrence, 
we  must  create  a  consistent  pattern  of  accountability. 
Despite  the  historic  achievements  in  the  fight  against 
impunity, we are not there yet. We also need concerted 
efforts to improve the quality of international criminal 
justice.  As  I  have  explained,  the  ICC  has  achieved 
concrete  results  in  improving  its  efficiency,  but  more 
work is needed in this regard too, and it should not be 
done in isolation.
The  International  Criminal  Court  was  created 
in  the  belief  that  an  international  system  cannot  be 
associated  with  a  particular  legal  system  or  set  of 
values.  A  truly  international  system  incorporates 
elements  of  legal  systems  and  traditions  from  around 
the world and represents values that resonate across the 
globe. This premise continues to be valid today. There 
is no particular legal system that is per se more apt for 
investigating  and  prosecuting  this  type  of  crime.  We 
must  strive  to  identify  the  best  tools  of  each  system 
in order to improve the quality of our work. We did it 
together at the ICC among all the judges, and we are now 
extending the dialogue to other courts and tribunals.
A step forward was taken two weeks ago, in Paris, 
where a meeting of presidents and judges from several 
international  criminal  tribunals  and  mechanisms  was 
held  for  the  first  time.  As  practitioners  experience 
similar challenges, there is a need for them to engage 
in a dialogue on how best to solve them. I thank l’École 
nationale  de  la  magistrature  —  the  French  National 
School for the Judiciary — for hosting this extremely 
important and unprecedented event.
take 
the 
achievements  —  and  mistakes  —  of  the  past  three 
decades in order to identify together the best tools for 
an effective system of international criminal justice for 
the twenty-first century.
Indeed,  we  must 
stock 
of 
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Mexico to introduce draft resolution A/72/L.3.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  of  introducing  the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/72/L.3,  entitled 
“Report of the International Criminal Court”. The draft 
resolution  welcomes  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal Court on its activities during the period 2016-
2017  (see  A/72/349)  and  is  an  update  of  resolution 
71/253, adopted on 23 December 2016. My delegation 
would  also  like  to  express  its  gratitude  to  all  the 
delegations that have sponsored the draft, which once 
6/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
again reaffirms the importance that members attribute 
to  the  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  International 
Criminal Court. I would greatly appreciate submitting 
the draft resolution contained in document A/72/L.3 to 
the General Assembly for adoption without a vote.
in  situations  referred  by  the  Council,  we  regret  the 
Council’s failure to act and agree that it is essential for 
it to follow up on these referred situations in order to 
foster cooperation on the part of both States parties and 
States non-parties to the Statute of the Court.
I  would  now  like  to  make  some  brief  comments 
in  my  national  capacity.  Mexico  would  like  to  thank 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, for her excellent 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  activities  of  the 
International Criminal Court to the General Assembly, 
which we have just heard. We are also grateful for and 
wish to pay tribute to the excellent leadership exercised 
by  the  President  during  her  term  of  office,  which  is 
about to end.
Over  this  period,  significant  progress  has  been 
made  by  the  Court.  It  was  a  year  of  firsts:  the  Court 
dealt  with  its  first  trial  on  the  destruction  of  cultural 
assets as a war crime in the trial against Mr. Al-Mahdi, 
in the context of the situation in Mali. Again, this was 
the first case of the Court where the accused admitted 
his guilt. The Court also handed down its first sentence 
for crimes against the administration of justice in the 
Bemba  et  al.  case,  condemning  the  defence  and  the 
accused for exerting undue influence on witnesses and 
having borne false witness to the Court in the situation 
of the Central African Republic. In this period, the first 
trial resulting from the situation in Uganda took place. 
These are significant contributions in the development 
of  contemporary  international  criminal  justice,  both 
substantive and procedural.
We  congratulate  the  Court  for  including  specific 
proposals  in  its  report  to  strengthen  the  international 
criminal-justice system, an objective acknowledged in 
the Preamble of the Charter of the United Nations. In 
particular, we highlight the following points. First, we 
agree  on  the  need  for  increased  cooperation  between 
the Security Council and the Court. Mexico promotes 
the responsible and objective use of the Council’s power 
to  refer  situations  to  the  Court.  That  is  why  Mexico, 
together  with  France,  supports  the  initiative  in  which 
the permanent members of the Security Council would 
refrain from using the veto in mass atrocity situations. 
We  urge  all  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
join  us  in  taking  this  initiative  in  order  to  strengthen 
international humanitarian law.
Secondly,  believing  that  the  major  challenges 
for  cooperation  with  the  Court  arise  specifically 
Thirdly, we agree that the mutual exchange between 
both  organs  would,  as  is  suggested  in  the  report, 
benefit from a structured dialogue which would make 
it possible to discuss not just the situations referred by 
the Council, but also other situations that the Court is 
looking at and thematic issues of mutual interest.
Fourthly,  we  also  support  exploring  ways  to 
achieve  closer  cooperation  between 
the  Security 
Council  sanctions  committees  and  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  considering  the  usefulness  of  travel 
bans and asset freezes ordered by the Council for the 
detention of persons accused by the Court, as well as 
for the confiscation of their assets in order to provide 
reparations to victims.
Mexico wishes to underscore the identification by 
the Court in its report of the use of the platform provided 
by  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
particularly  with  regard  to  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 16, in order to include issues related to the Rome 
Statute  in  legal  and  judicial  reform  programmes  with 
the support of the United Nations.
Mexico welcomes this approach. Indeed, the report 
issued this year by the Secretary-General promoting the 
rule of law in the Organization’s activities (A/72/268) 
describes  significant  activities  involving  assistance 
provided by the United Nations to countries throughout 
the  world  to  strengthen  their  justice  and  security 
institutions,  including  the  development  of  national 
capacities  for  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of 
international  crimes,  which  is  consistent  with  States’ 
primary responsibility in this regard. These endeavours 
carried out by the United Nations and those deployed 
for human rights or development are appropriate for the 
provision  of  technical  assistance.  We  are  pleased  that 
the Court recognizes this fact in its report, and we hope 
that it will be implemented comprehensively across the 
International Criminal Court system.
Finally,  Mexico  supports  the  swift  activation  of 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression. 
This will round out the functional forms of jurisdiction 
provided  for  under  the  Rome  Statute  in  1998.  A  few 
months before the twentieth anniversary of the Statute 
17-35155
7/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
Mexico 
reiterates 
to 
and the fifteenth anniversary of the Court’s becoming 
active, we believe that it is high time for this to be done.
the 
international criminal justice and to strengthening the 
system that was created by the Rome Statute, in order 
to  avoid  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  the  most 
serious crimes that affect the international community 
as a whole.
commitment 
its 
Mr. Jensen (Denmark): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the five Nordic countries: Finland, Iceland, 
Norway, Sweden and my own country, Denmark.
I would like to start by thanking the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) for its annual report to the United 
Nations (see A/72/349). I would also like to thank Judge 
Fernández de Gurmendi, President of the ICC, for her 
thorough presentation of the main issues of the report. 
Again,  the  yearly  report  bears  witness  to  the  Court’s 
increasing activity across a broad range of situations and 
cases, showing that the ICC is truly a global criminal 
court. The Nordic countries would like to express our 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Court  for  its  significant 
contribution in the fight against impunity worldwide.
Holding to account perpetrators and ensuring justice 
for victims of the most serious crimes of concern to the 
international community as a whole are principles shared 
by  States  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  The  International 
Criminal Court is an essential institution, not only for 
promoting  respect  for  international  humanitarian  law 
and human rights law, but also for the advancement of 
post-conflict  peacebuilding  and  reconciliation,  with  a 
view to achieving sustainable development and peace, 
as also envisioned in Sustainable Development Goal 16 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The success of the ICC depends on cooperation with 
other stakeholders, and many States and international 
organizations  provide  important  contributions  to  the 
Court.  However,  it  is  a  continued  cause  for  concern 
that the number of outstanding arrest warrants remains 
high.  We  strongly  urge  all  States  to  cooperate  fully 
and effectively with the Court, in line with applicable 
Security  Council  resolutions.  Furthermore,  States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  have  undertaken  an 
obligation to this end.
The  Court’s  promise  of 
justice  for  victims 
corresponds to the reach of its jurisdiction, which, first 
and  foremost,  depends  on  how  universally  the  Rome 
Statute  has  been  ratified.  The  ICC  needs  more  States 
parties, not fewer. We would therefore like to welcome 
El  Salvador  as  the  latest  State  party  to  the  Rome 
Statute. Furthermore, the Nordic countries are pleased 
to  note  that  the  Gambia  and  South  Africa  reversed 
their  previous  decisions,  having  withdrawn 
their 
notifications of withdrawal before they took effect.
However,  we  also  wish  to  reiterate  our  deep 
disappointment and concern with respect to the decision 
of  the  Government  of  Burundi  to  withdraw  from 
the  Rome  Statute.  We  stand  ready  for  a  constructive 
discussion  about  concerns  that  some  States  parties 
may have and encourage and invite States parties that 
are  critical  of  the  Court  to  seek  solutions  within  the 
framework  and  fundamental  principles  of  the  Rome 
Statute. Continued dialogue is of key importance.
As  the  ICC  is  a  court  of  last  resort,  States 
have  the  primary  responsibility  to  investigate  and 
prosecute  crimes.  However,  States  affected  by 
genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes 
might  at  times  need  capacity  support  to  implement 
the    relevant  legislation,  initiate  investigations  and 
conduct  criminal  proceedings.  The  Nordic  countries 
emphasize  the  value  of  States  parties  assisting  one  
another  —  and  those  States  that  are  interested  in 
ratifying the Statute — in developing capacity. We are 
committed  to  strong  international  cooperation.  Such 
cooperation can strengthen the political commitment of 
States  to  conducting  genuine  and  fair  proceedings  in 
what are often challenging circumstances.
Cooperation  that  engages  international,  regional 
and national actors in the justice sector, as well as civil 
society, also furthers the principle of complementarity. 
In this context, we wish to highlight the complementarity 
programme of the Justice Rapid Response facility, which 
offers assistance and mentoring to States that are willing 
to investigate conflict-related international crimes.
In this forum, I would like to make particular note 
of the ongoing cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  ICC  as  described  in  the  report.  We  share  the 
Court’s  strong  appreciation  for  the  crucial  support 
and  cooperation  from  senior  leadership  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  role  played  by  former  and 
present Secretaries-General, as well as the engagement 
of  the  relevant  United  Nations  departments,  among 
which  the  Office  of  the  Legal  Counsel  should  be 
highlighted.  We  welcome 
the  ongoing  high-level 
consultations between the principals of the Court and 
senior  United  Nations  officials.  This  dialogue  also 
8/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
sets the course for more concrete areas of cooperation, 
including  stronger  cooperation 
the  field  and 
supportive  policy  statements  from  relevant  United 
Nations bodies.
in 
Enhanced  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the 
Security Council is still necessary. This is particularly 
true in cases of non-cooperation with the ICC, as well 
as for strengthened follow-up on situations referred to 
the Court by the Security Council. We also note with 
great concern that the Security Council has been unable 
to refer the Syrian situation to the ICC, and we strongly 
urge Council members to continue efforts in that regard.
The Nordic countries are appalled by the continued, 
blatant  disregard  for  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian law in Syria. Without stronger and more 
committed action by the Council and States parties, the 
situation will not improve. All of those responsible for 
war crimes and other serious international crimes must 
be held accountable. Impunity is not an option. In this 
regard,  the  Nordic  countries  are  proud  to  support  the 
work  of  the  International,  Impartial  and  Independent 
Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation and Prosecution 
of  Persons  Responsible  for  the  Most  Serious  Crimes 
under  International  Law  Committed  in  the  Syrian 
Arab  Republic  since  March  2011,  with  the  important 
mandate  to  collect,  save  and  categorize  evidence  for 
future  investigations  and  trials.  We  encourage  others 
to do the same. Furthermore, our strong support for the 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  on 
the Syrian Arab Republic remains.
The  full  realization  of  the  rights  of  victims  is 
an  important  aspect  of  the  continuing  success  and 
relevance  of  the  Court.  We  commend  the  important 
work  of  the  ICC  Trust  Fund  for  Victims,  which  has 
supported  more  than  450,000  victims  in  northern 
Uganda  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
and has recently launched an assistance programme in 
Côte d’Ivoire. We encourage States and other entities to 
contribute to the Trust Fund.
The  Nordic  countries  also  welcome  the  Court’s 
ambitions  to  further  enhance  the  efficiency  of  its 
activities.  We  especially  welcome  the  Prosecutor’s 
policies to address crimes against those most vulnerable 
in  important  areas,  such  as  sexual  and  gender-based 
crimes and crimes against children.
In  order  for  the  Court  to  be  able  to  carry  out  its 
mission  in  the  most  efficient  way,  it  also  needs  to  be 
properly funded. The Court’s budget will be dealt with 
in the Assembly of States Parties later this year, but we 
wish to underline the worldwide activities of the Court, 
as  reflected  in  the  Court’s  report.  It  is  our  common 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  Court  has  sufficient 
resources to carry out its important mandate in a time 
of increasing demand.
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Likewise, it is the obligation of the Court to ensure 
its effective and efficient functioning, and we commend 
the  steps  taken  in  this  regard,  as  well  as  in  terms  of 
developing performance indicators. We also stress the 
importance of upholding and strengthening governance 
standards and ensuring proper investigation of alleged 
misconduct.  In  this  context,  we  particularly  note  the 
need to address recent allegations and ensure that the 
impartiality  and  independence  of  the  Court  remains 
beyond doubt.
I would like to conclude by renewing our pledge that 
the Nordic countries will remain staunch supporters of 
the ICC. We are committed to continuing to work for 
the Court’s effectiveness, independence and integrity.
Ms.  Beckles  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the 14 States members of 
the Caribbean Community (CARICOM).
We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) (see A/72/349) and supporting documents, which 
provide useful information on the activities of the Court 
in the 2016-2017 period.
CARICOM’S unwavering commitment to the ICC is 
informed by its recognition of the importance of ending 
impunity  for  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes 
of  concern  to  the  international  community,  namely, 
the  crimes  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  of  aggression,  as  outlined  in 
article  5  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  therefore  join  with 
other  members  of  the  international  community  in 
underscoring the importance of preventing such crimes 
and  ensuring  that  those  responsible  for  perpetrating 
them are brought to justice. It is noteworthy to mention 
that, from our region, the late Arthur N. R. Robinson, 
former  President  and  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  has  been  credited  as  one  of 
the forefathers of the ICC through his pioneering work 
which led to the establishment of the Court.
17-35155
9/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
In  the  light  of  the  concerns  of  some  over  the 
criminal jurisdiction of the ICC as a threat to national 
sovereignty, we wish to recall that, consistent with the 
principle  of  complementarity  enshrined  in  the  Rome 
Statute, the Court’s jurisdiction is invoked only when 
States refuse to prosecute those alleged to be guilty of 
committing grave crimes of concern to the international 
community or where they lack the appropriate domestic 
jurisdiction to do so. No individual or State should fear 
the ICC, as it is a court of last resort.
Notwithstanding  its  many  challenges,  we  cannot 
ignore the fact that the ICC continues to be a beacon of 
hope for victims of crimes within its jurisdiction who 
are seeking justice. These include thousands of women 
and children, who are often the ones most affected by 
the actions of criminals who show blatant disregard for 
the  sanctity  of  human  life  by  violating  international 
humanitarian law and international human rights.
As stated in the report of the ICC, we are pleased 
to  note  that,  to  date,  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  and 
implementing  partners  have  assisted  more 
than 
455,000 victims, including through providing physical 
and  psychological  rehabilitation,  as  well  as  material 
support to survivors of Rome Statute crimes. We also 
urge States and other entities in a position to do so to 
contribute to the Trust Fund, with a view to providing 
for  the  expansion  and  sustenance  of  its  assistance 
programmes as well as for Court-ordered reparations.
CARICOM  asserts  that  the  success  of  the  Court 
is intrinsically linked to the universality of the Rome 
Statute.  Therefore,  we  are  convinced  that  through 
increased  cooperation,  the  Court  would  be  better 
able  to  effectively  discharge  the  mandate  entrusted 
to it by States parties. In this regard, we reiterate our 
commitment to promoting the universality of the Rome 
Statute  of  the  ICC  and  urge  all  States  that  have  not 
yet  done  so  to  take  the  necessary  steps  to  ratify  and 
fully implement the Statute with a view to promoting 
its universality.
CARICOM recalls the decision made at the Review 
Conference of the Rome Statute held in 2010 in Kampala, 
Uganda, for the Court to exercise its jurisdiction over 
the crime of aggression once 30 States had ratified the 
amendments proposed there and subject to a decision of 
the Assembly to activate that jurisdiction. We therefore 
look forward to the upcoming decision of the Assembly 
to  activate  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression later this year, with a view to ensuring that 
the Court is able to exercise wider jurisdiction, including 
over crimes of aggression, thereby preventing impunity.
CARICOM  recognizes  that  during  the  current 
reporting  period,  three  States  parties  acceded  to  the 
Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the ICC, 
bringing the total number of parties to the Agreement to 
77. Further, four States parties have ratified or accepted 
article 8 and the crime of aggression amendments to the 
Statute, bringing the total number of States parties to 
both  amendments  to  34.  In  addition,  four  States  have 
acceded  to  the  article  124  amendment,  bringing  the 
total number to five.
the 
importance 
recognizes 
CARICOM 
of 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  to  the  proper 
functioning  of  the  Court.  We  are  therefore  pleased  to 
note that during the current reporting period, the Court 
continued  to  receive  crucial  support  and  cooperation 
from  senior  United  Nations  officials,  including  the 
current  Secretary-General.  We  also  commend  the 
United  Nations  on  its  efforts  to  provide  staff  for 
interviews and testimony.
As  part  of  larger  efforts  to  further  advance 
cooperation with the Court, we are particularly pleased 
to recall that, on 10 and 11 January 2017, in Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  the  ICC  organized  a  high-level  seminar 
for  CARICOM  on  fostering  cooperation  with  the 
Court.  CARICOM  commends  the  ICC  for  its  efforts 
in  this  regard  and  reiterates  its  firm  commitment  to 
cooperating with the Court and upholding its mandate.
Pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement,  which  provides  for  the  close  cooperation 
between the Court and the United Nations in discharging 
their 
is 
satisfied  that  in  the  period  from  July  2016  to  June 
2017,  the  United  Nations  cooperated  extensively  with 
the  Court,  with  a  view  to  further  strengthening  their 
relationship and ensuring the effective implementation 
of the Agreement.
responsibilities,  CARICOM 
respective 
In  accordance  with  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on this agenda item, we wish to recall that the 
capacity of the Security Council to refer a situation to 
the  Court  is  crucial  to  promoting  accountability,  but 
active  follow-up  on  referrals  to  ensure  cooperation, 
namely,  the  arrest  and  surrender  of  individuals,  is 
necessary  to  guarantee  that  justice  is  delivered.  We 
note with deep concern that the Security Council has 
failed to respond to several notifications of findings of 
non-cooperation in any substantive form.
10/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
CARICOM is also disturbed by the failure of some 
States  to  honour  their  legally  binding  obligations  to 
cooperate with the Court in the execution of outstanding 
arrest  warrants.  Those  that  fail  to  cooperate  with  the 
Court  to  bring  criminals  to  justice  are  contributing 
to a culture of impunity that not only undermines the 
rule of law but also serves as an affront to victims of 
grave crimes.
CARICOM  commends  the  efforts  of  the  Court  to 
ensure that justice prevails and that criminals are not 
allowed  to  continue  their  actions  with  impunity.  We 
remain  satisfied  with  the  steadfast  commitment  and 
hard work of the ICC Prosecutor, Ms. Fatou Bensouda, 
who  continues  to  discharge  her  mandate  in  a  manner 
consistent  with  the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the ICC. We take note of the newly opened preliminary 
examination  during  the  current  reporting  period,  as 
well as the ongoing examinations being conducted.
CARICOM once again expresses its concern over 
the increasingly heavy workload of the Court. Pursuant 
to  the  report  of  the  ICC,  we  note  that  the  Prosecutor 
is engaged in ongoing investigations in relation to ten 
situations. Two judgments have been issued, in which 
six accused were convicted and sentenced, three trials 
are  ongoing  and  two  cases  are  on  appeal.  Further, 
proceedings  relating  to  reparations  in  four  cases  are 
under way. To this end, we reiterate our call for the ICC 
to be provided with the resources necessary to properly 
discharge its mandate and ensure that the perpetrators of 
the most serious crimes of concern to the international 
community  are  brought  to  justice.  CARICOM  also 
urges  the  States  parties  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
pay their outstanding contributions so as to ensure that 
the Court is able to discharge its responsibilities in an 
effective and efficient manner.
Pursuant  to  article  115  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute 
of  the  ICC  and  the  Relationship  Agreement  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC,  CARICOM  recalls 
that  the  expenses  associated  with  referrals  by  the 
Security Council should be provided by funds from the 
United Nations. To this end, we once again reiterate our 
call for the United Nations to honour its obligations to 
meet the costs associated with referrals by the Security 
Council to the ICC.
In closing, I would like to reaffirm the unwavering 
support of CARICOM for upholding the mandate of the 
Rome Statute of the ICC and for cooperating with the 
Court  with  a  view  to  putting  an  end  to  impunity  for 
the perpetrators of the most serious crimes of concern 
to  the  international  community  and  ensuring  that 
adequate reparations are provided to victims.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Chaboureau  (European  Union)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  have  the  honour  of  speaking  on  behalf  on 
the European Union (EU) and its member States. The 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia;  Albania,  country  of 
the Stabilization and Association Process; and potential 
candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Georgia  align  themselves 
with this statement.
We  would  like  to  thank  President  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi  for  her  comprehensive  briefing.  We  also 
thank  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  its 
annual report to the General Assembly (see A/71/349), 
covering  the  period  from  1  August  2016  to  31  July 
2017  and  detailing  a  particularly  busy  year  for  the 
International Criminal Court.
The European Union and its member States consider 
the fight against impunity for the most serious crimes, 
by holding the perpetrators accountable for their actions 
and ensuring justice for the victims, to be the key to a 
just  and  fair  society.  We  are  strong  supporters  of  the 
Court, which, as a crucial institution for the promotion 
of a rules-based world order, aims to deliver justice to 
the victims of the most serious crimes when that is not 
possible  at  the  national  level.  The  Court  remains  an 
essential  custodian  of  international  humanitarian  law 
and  human  rights  in  all  countries  and  is  a  source  of 
hope for the millions of victims of atrocities committed 
around the world.
Complementarity is at the heart of the system that 
was created by the Rome Statute. The responsibility for 
bringing offenders to justice lies with Member States 
themselves. In this regard, for the system to work, all 
States  parties  must  adopt  effective  national  laws  so 
as  to  implement  the  Rome  Statute.  Through  various 
assistance  instruments  and  projects,  the  European 
Union  remains  committed  to  supporting  initiatives 
aimed  at  encouraging  Member  States  to  cooperate  in 
the  fight  against  impunity,  including  by  improving 
ways to provide mutual legal assistance.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
welcome the decisions taken by South Africa and the 
17-35155
11/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
Gambia  to  reverse  their  prior  decisions  to  withdraw 
from  the  Rome  Statute.  We  regret  that  Burundi  has 
not  reconsidered  its  decision  to  withdraw.  We  invite 
States to contribute to the efforts to combat impunity 
for  major  international  crimes,  in  accordance  with 
the objectives and principles of the Rome Statute and 
the  primary  responsibility  of  Member  States  to  bring 
offenders to justice. We believe that it is important to 
work constructively on the perception that people might 
have of the Court.
We  also  note  that,  during  the  reporting  period, 
three States acceded to the Agreement on the Privileges 
and  Immunities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
and  four  States  parties  have  ratified  or  accepted  the 
amendments to the Rome Statute, in particular article 8 
thereof, which pertains to the crime of aggression. That 
brings  the  total  number  of  parties  that  have  accepted 
those amendments to 34.
We also note that the threshold of 30 ratifications of 
the amendments on the crime of aggression, as provided 
for in resolution RC/Res.6 of the Review Conference on 
the Rome Statute, adopted on 11 June 2010, has been 
met.  We  note  the  ongoing  discussions  on  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression  prior  to  the 
Assembly of the States Parties to the Rome Statute, to 
be  held  in  December.  We  also  welcome  the  fact  that 
four  Member  States  have  acceded  to  the  amendments 
to article 124.
With 10 cases under investigation by the Prosecutor, 
10 preliminary inquiries, three ongoing trials and two 
appeals, the ICC is conducting investigations and trials 
that  touch  upon  most  parts  of  the  world,  whether  it 
be  Latin  America,  Asia,  Africa  or  Europe.  While  the 
effective management of the heavy workload of the ICC 
is acknowledged to be a real challenge, the increase in 
the number of cases referred to the ICC reflects the fact 
that many Member States place their hopes in the Court 
to bring about justice and accountability.
We are aware of the important legal developments 
that  the  ICC,  in  fulfilling  its  mandate  during  the 
reporting  period,  initiated,  in  particular  opening  a 
preliminary  inquiry  into  the  situation  in  Gabon  and 
commencing the trial of Dominic Ongwen with regard 
to the situation in Uganda. We take note of the Court’s 
judgments  during  a  reporting  period  in  which  six 
defendants were convicted and sentenced. The judgment 
of the Court with regard to the situation in Mali is the 
first  case  on  the  destruction  of  cultural  property,  as 
well as the first case in which an accused has pleaded 
guilty, and its judgment on the situation in the Central 
African Republic relates, for the first time, to charges 
of offences against the administration of justice.
Within the context of the ICC’s increasing activity, 
it  is  essential  that  the  Court  operate  in  an  efficient 
and  effective  manner.  We  therefore  warmly  welcome 
the  efforts  of  the  Court  to  implement  reforms  aimed 
at 
the  efficiency  and  performance  of 
its  activities  at  all  stages  of  the  judicial  process, 
as  well  as  efforts  aimed  at  improving  governance 
and transparency.
improving 
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
welcome  the  actions  undertaken  by  Member  States, 
international  organizations  and  civil  society  to  assist 
and  bolster  cooperation  with  the  Court.  Furthermore, 
we appeal to all States to support and facilitate the work 
of  the  Court  throughout  its  judicial  proceedings.  We 
also  welcome  the  many  forms  of  fruitful  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Court.
The recent report of the Court describes its efforts 
to fulfil its mandate and the many positive developments 
that are taking place as well as the challenges it faces. 
An  ongoing  fundamental  challenge  is  the  need  to 
ensure  cooperation  with  the  Court.  Cooperation  with 
the  Court  and  the  enforcement  of  its  decisions  are 
indeed essential for the Court to be able to carry out its 
mandate. This applies not only to all States parties to 
the Rome Statute, but also when the Security Council 
has  referred  a  situation  to  the  Court,  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  fully 
agree  with  the  Court  that  the  Security  Council’s 
prerogative  to  refer  a  situation  to  the  Court  can  help 
to  promote  accountability  in  countries  where  serious 
crimes may have been committed, but where the Court 
would have no jurisdiction to act without action from 
the  Security  Council.  We  note  with  concern  cases  of 
non-cooperation, including in situations referred to the 
Court by the Security Council. We invite the Council 
to  find  ways  to  improve  the  implementation  of  the 
obligations created by these referrals, particularly with 
respect to the situations in Darfur and in Libya.
Non-cooperation with the Court hampers its ability 
to  deliver  justice.  We  urge  all  Member  States  to  take 
coherent and decisive measures to encourage full and 
appropriate  cooperation  with  the  Court,  including 
12/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
through the prompt implementation of arrest warrants. 
We  note  with  concern  that  arrest  warrants  for  15 
individuals  remain  outstanding.  We  also  reiterate  the 
importance  of  States  refraining  from  harbouring  or 
hiding the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, and 
of their taking the steps necessary to bring perpetrators 
to justice so as to put an end to impunity. Aware of the 
importance of cooperation in the fight against impunity, 
we welcome the 20 October Paris seminar on financial 
cooperation  with  the  Court,  which  was  organized  by 
the French and Senegalese Ambassadors to The Hague.
It is important to persevere in the efforts deployed 
to reduce the difficulties facing the Court. At the same 
time, it is also important to recognize and welcome the 
very  positive  aspects  of  the  work  that  the  Court  has 
accomplished.  In  particular,  with  regard  to  victims, 
the  European  Union,  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Court, 
wishes  to  highlight  the  Court’s  activities  on  their 
behalf,  in  particular  the  fact  that  2,089  victims  have 
been  allowed  to  participate  in  Court  proceedings.  In 
addition,  the  Court  received  13  new  applications  for 
victims’ participation in proceedings, 2,207 requests for 
reparations and 2,505 claims covering both reparations 
and participation in proceedings.
We  especially  welcome  the  strengthening  of  the 
ICC Trust Fund for Victims, which is a key pillar of the 
work of the ICC, and we express the full support of the 
European Union to the Fund, which contributes to the 
achievement of an inclusive and lasting peace by helping 
the victims who are beneficiaries of the Fund to return 
to a dignified and fruitful life in their communities.
We  particularly  welcome  the  assistance  projects 
aimed  at  providing  support  to  survivors  of  crimes 
under  the  Rome  Statute  in  northern  Uganda  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  as  well  as  the 
launch of an assistance programme for victims in Côte 
d’Ivoire.
The  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  is  essential 
to  ensure  accountability  for  the  most  serious  crimes 
affecting  the  entire  international  community.  Today, 
more than ever, the world needs the ICC, and the ICC 
needs the support of all countries. That is why we call 
on all States Members of the United Nations that have 
not yet done so to consider ratifying or acceding to the 
Rome Statute, thus demonstrating their commitment to 
the fight against impunity, the prevention of atrocities 
and the strengthening of international law and the rule 
of  law.  During  the  reporting  period,  the  European 
Union  continued  its  efforts  aimed  at  promoting  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  Agreement 
on  the  Privileges  and  Immunities  and  at  improving 
understanding of the mandate of the Court.
Next year’s twentieth anniversary of the adoption 
of  the  Rome  Statute  will  be  a  good  opportunity  to 
urge the international community to engage in a more 
concerted collective effort in support of the Court. The 
European Union and its member States are committed 
to  continuing  to  work  with  all  partners  to  further 
strengthen the International Criminal Court and, more 
generally, international criminal justice.
Mr.  Tenya  Hasegawa  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Peru  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  fighting  impunity 
and  to  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC), a judicial institution that, in accordance with the 
principle of complementarity, is fundamental to efforts 
to prevent serious crimes from going unpunished. For 
this reason, we welcome the report of the International 
Criminal  Court  on  its  activities  during  the  2016-
2017  period  (see  A/72/349),  presented  today  to  the 
General Assembly by the President of the Court, Judge 
Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  as  well  as  the  report 
on  information  relevant  to  the  implementation  of 
article  3  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(A/72/342).
Furthermore,  my  delegation  looks  forward  to 
the  adoption  by  consensus  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
the  report  of  the  ICC  (A/72/L.3),  which  we  have  also 
co-sponsored. In this regard, my delegation believes that 
there is a convergence between the values and ideals of 
the Rome Statute and the principles and purposes of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Acknowledging  the  work  of  the  bodies  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  pursuant  to  the  Rome 
Statute, we wish to state — as a recent sign of our concrete 
support —  that  Peru  ratified  this  year  the  Agreement 
on the Privileges and Immunities of the Court, which 
promotes  compliance  on  Peruvian  territory  with  the 
mandate  of  the  Court  and  its  personnel.  Indeed,  this 
work is reflected in the substantial caseload taken up 
by  the  Court  since  the  beginning  of  its  operations, 
namely, 25 cases and investigations in 10 situations, as 
well  as  10    preliminary  examinations  currently  being 
undertaken by the Office of the Prosecutor.
Notwithstanding 
outstanding 
performance, we recognize that international criminal 
the 
ICC’s 
17-35155
13/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
justice continues to be a goal to which we aspire and 
that the Court needs the constant support and decisive 
cooperation  of  States.  Indeed,  political  support  must 
come  not  only  from  the  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute,  but  from  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations.  Likewise,  the  States  parties  to  the  Statute 
have  a  legal  obligation  to  provide  assistance  to  the 
Court,  including  through  the  arrest  and  surrender  of 
individuals  subject  to  outstanding  arrest  warrants.  In 
addition, we highlight the importance the Court attaches 
to the participation of victims in its proceedings. This 
participation  is  essential  to  help  fulfil  the  Court’s 
mandate  and  must  be  guaranteed  at  all  stages  of  the 
process, be it individual or collective participation.
Peru  recognizes  that  the  Court  could  be  more 
effective  and  therefore  supports  the  adoption  of 
practical measures consistent with the Rome Statute that 
streamline  processes,  thereby  improving  the  Court’s 
effectiveness,  including  the  proposed  amendments, 
as  long  as  they  do  not  undermine  due  process  or  the 
rights  of  parties  and  victims.  We  also  wish  to  state 
our  concern  about  the  Court’s  financing,  particularly 
in relation to those cases referred to it by the Security 
Council, pursuant to article 13 (b) of the Statute.
My delegation wishes to reiterate the need to move 
forward towards comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council,  in  particular  with  regard  to  its  working 
methods  and  the  use  of  the  veto,  which  is  relevant  in 
the light of the imperative to prevent atrocious crimes. 
Peru  therefore  supports  the  initiatives  of  France  and 
the Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group 
on  the  Code  of  Conduct  regarding  Security  Council 
action  against  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or 
war crimes.
to 
their 
With  regard 
the  relationship  between 
the 
International Criminal Court and the Security Council, 
my delegation wishes to highlight the need to continue 
strengthening 
encourages 
increased  cooperation  between  them,  including,  if 
possible,  between  the  Council’s  sanctions  committees 
and the Court.
interaction 
and 
As a member delegation of the Informal Ministerial 
Network for the International Criminal Court, we attach 
importance to the universality of the Rome Statute and 
urge the 71 Member States that have not yet done so to 
consider ratifying the Statute. Accordingly, we express 
our concern over the possibility that some States may 
choose to withdraw from the Rome Statute.
Peru is a peaceful and stable country that, thanks 
to 
the 
implementation  of  genuine  accountability 
mechanisms,  has  overcome  some  serious  internal 
conflicts. Such mechanisms are the best way to prevent 
the recurrence of serious violations of human rights and 
international humanitarian law.
Looking to the future, we believe that accountability 
and the fight against impunity are reflected in the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  in  particular 
within Goal 16. The Agenda is an important platform for 
promoting  international  justice  within  the  framework 
of the rule of law and access to justice at the national 
and international levels.
Ms.  Kuret  (Slovenia):  Slovenia  welcomes  today’s 
debate  on  the  activities  of  and  latest  developments 
in  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Slovenia 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  just  made  by  the 
European Union. In the light of the importance of the 
subject matter before us, we would like to make some 
additional comments.
in 
Slovenia 
joins  others 
thanking  President 
Fernández de Gurmendi for joining us here today and 
for her helpful briefing on the latest report of the Court 
(see  A/72/349).  As  a  long-standing  supporter  of  the 
ICC,  Slovenia  takes  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  its 
strong support for the Court.
We  note  with  appreciation  that  the  Court  has 
continued to handle a heavy workload as it pursues its 
work on the situations that spread across many regions 
of the world. It opened a new preliminary examination 
of  the  situation  in  Gabon,  following  its  referral  and 
sustained important efforts with respect to international 
cooperation and outreach activities.
reparations 
With victims being at the centre of the Rome Statute 
system, we are particularly pleased to note the positive 
developments  concerning 
to  victims. 
Assistance to victims and reparations for their suffering 
and loss are essential for justice to be truly meaningful. 
The Trust Fund for Victims plays an important role in 
that  respect,  and,  recognizing  the  increased  activities 
and needs of the Trust Fund, I am pleased that Slovenia 
has recently made a financial contribution to it.
We  would  also  like  to  welcome  the  ratifications 
of  and  accessions  to  the  Kampala  amendments  to  the 
Rome Statute. As the second State to have both ratified 
and  implemented  the  Kampala  amendments,  Slovenia 
14/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
continues  to  promote  the  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute and the Amendments thereto.
atrocity  crimes,  as  well  as  to  the  effectiveness  and 
credibility of the Court.
We  express  our  strong  support  for  the  swift 
activation of the Court’s jurisdiction over the crime of 
aggression, which is expected this year. That is the final 
step needed for the historic achievement in Kampala to 
be  brought  to  life.  My  country  is  convinced  that  the 
States parties to the Rome Statute will be able to meet 
that goal.
The  ICC  is  the  only  permanent  international 
criminal court that serves the fundamental purpose of 
offering  justice  to  victims  when  States  are  unable  or 
unwilling  to  do  so.  Slovenia  is  particularly  reassured 
that  following  last  year’s  announcements  of  decisions 
to  withdraw  from  the  Rome  Statute,  two  Member 
States have revoked their decisions and thus continue 
to  play  a  role  within  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties. 
In  that  context,  Slovenia  wishes  to  highlight  the 
importance  of  making  continuous  efforts  against  the 
culture of impunity and stresses the significance of the 
primary responsibility of States to combat impunity in 
good faith.
the  key 
international 
A  great  portion  of  this  year’s  report  focuses  on 
international  cooperation,  and  rightly  so.  The  ICC 
institution  for 
is  certainly 
lacking 
administering  criminal 
enforcement  powers  and  outreach  capacities, 
it 
depends  greatly  on  the  cooperation  and  support  of 
States  and  civil  society,  as  well  as  of  regional  and 
international organizations.
justice.  However, 
Slovenia greatly values the many forms of mutual 
cooperation between the United Nations and the ICC, 
both in headquarters and in the peacekeeping missions 
and other United Nations presence in the field. United 
Nations  support  is  crucial,  ranging  from  information 
exchange and provision of services, facilities and field 
support,  to  cooperation  from  the  senior  leadership  of 
the  United  Nations.  Slovenia  is  pleased  to  note  that 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC 
is generally exemplary. At the same time, we recognize 
room for improvement.
Slovenia welcomes the Secretary-General’s call in 
the latest report on the rule of law (A/72/268) to address 
the  outstanding  challenges  regarding  the  efficiency 
and  sustainability  of 
international  accountability 
mechanisms.  In  that  context,  Slovenia  considers  that 
increased  cooperation  between  the  Security  Council 
and the ICC would contribute significantly to preventing 
The  roles  of  the  Council  and  the  Court  are 
inherently  interrelated.  For  example,  the  Council  has 
the  capacity  to  play  an  important  part  in  addressing 
non-cooperation  with  the  Court.  It  can  contribute 
to  the  Court’s  effectiveness  through  its  work  on 
sanction-related  matters,  such  as  travel  bans  and  the 
freezing  of  assets.  Moreover,  active  follow-up  by  the 
Council  on  its  referrals  to  the  ICC  would  decisively 
contribute to the Court’s effectiveness.
Despite  the  fact  that,  admittedly,  some  of  the 
outstanding issues are more challenging — such as the 
matter of funding with respect to the situations referred 
to the ICC by the Council — that should not preclude us 
from addressing them. With a view to exploring avenues 
for improved cooperation between the United Nations 
and the ICC, Slovenia would welcome open exchange 
and  structured  dialogue  between  the  Council  and  the 
Court.  The  fast-approaching  twentieth  anniversary 
of the adoption of the Rome Statute is an appropriate 
opportunity to call for increased efforts to that end.
Cooperation with the ICC by States parties to the 
Rome Statute, as well as by States that are not parties 
in the case of Security Council referrals, is not a policy 
choice. It is an international legal obligation. Slovenia 
is concerned that 15 arrest warrants issued by the Court 
remain  outstanding,  some  of  them  for  several  years. 
That is a serious obstacle to the Court’s mandate and 
credibility.  It  is  clear  that  more  should  be  done  by 
States to ensure the execution of outstanding warrants. 
Slovenia therefore calls for full and prompt cooperation 
with the Court.
The  Court’s  efficiency  and  integrity  are  also 
critical  for  its  credibility.  In  that  regard,  Slovenia 
welcomes  the  continuous  efforts  within  the  Court  to 
introduce  further  improvements  to  the  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  of  its  proceedings.  We  recognize  the 
importance  of  addressing  the  challenges  facing  the 
Court. The Court is not exempt from criticism, and it 
has already lived through some challenging moments. 
In that context, Slovenia underlines the important role 
of internal processes and of the Independent Oversight 
Mechanism  of  the  Court.  We  place  our  trust  in  the 
Mechanism and are confident that through its work the 
Court will continue to reinforce its integrity.
Our  common  goal  should  be  an 
impartial, 
independent, universal and effective ICC that delivers 
17-35155
15/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
high-quality  judgments  and  places  victims  at  the 
centre of its tasks. That will require joint efforts by all 
stakeholders.  Slovenia  remains  firmly  committed  to 
the  rule  of  law  and  international  criminal  justice  and 
stands  ready  to  contribute  to  further  strengthening 
international criminal justice.
Mr.  Bessho  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
thanking  President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi 
for  her  dedication  and  leadership,  as  well  as  for  the 
comprehensive  report  (see  A/72/349)  on  the  work  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  Mexico  for  preparing  and  introducing 
today’s  draft  resolution  (A/72/L.3).  Japan  is  happy  to 
co-sponsor the draft resolution and strongly hopes that 
it will be adopted by consensus.
Japan  is  committed  to  the  fight  against  impunity 
and  to  supporting  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Earlier this year, the President of the ICC, Judge Silvia 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  visited  Tokyo  and  met  with 
Prime Minister Abe and other high-level officials of the 
Government of Japan. In their discussions, they talked 
about the importance of promoting the universality of 
the Rome Statute, especially in the Asia-Pacific region. 
Prime Minister Abe reiterated Japan’s support for the 
ICC and expressed his hope that it will play a greater 
role,  thereby  contributing  to  the  establishment  of  the 
rule of law in the international community.
Japan’s core policy towards the Court is to enable 
it  to  function  effectively  and  sustainably  with  the 
support  of  the  international  community.  Japan  is 
proud  to  be  the  largest  financial  contributor  to  the 
Court. We are also dedicated to supporting the Court 
through  capable  human  resources,  including  judges. 
Two  Japanese  staff  have  also  joined  the  ICC  for  the 
first time this year through its new Junior Professional 
Officers programme.
Japan  believes  that  the  ICC  has  contributed  to 
steady  progress  in  international  justice.  The  Court 
has been exercising its jurisdiction over 10 situations, 
and  10  preliminary  examinations  are  ongoing. 
Nevertheless,  we  are  aware  that  financial  and  human 
resources are limited, and we believe that they should 
be  used  efficiently.  With  that  in  mind,  the  Japanese 
Ambassador to the Netherlands, Mr. Hiroshi Inomata, 
has  been  working  with  Chile  to  co-chair  the  Study 
Group on Governance to enhance the efficiency of the 
Court. We also welcome the ICC’s efforts to improve the 
efficiency of proceedings, including through a retreat 
for the judges. We strongly believe that those exercises 
undertaken by the States parties and the Court can help 
alleviate its workload.
Japan strongly believes that to ensure that the ICC 
effectively promotes the rule of law around the world, 
more countries should join the ICC. In the long run, the 
ICC should aim at becoming a truly universal criminal 
court so that it can gain strong support for its work. We 
therefore  welcome  the  decisions  by  The  Gambia  and 
South Africa to rescind their withdrawal from the ICC. 
In order to maximize support from a greater number of 
States,  the  ICC  and  its  States  parties  should  continue 
to  listen  to  the  various  concerns  expressed  and  make 
efforts to enhance the ICC’s universality.
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  understanding  on 
the participation of observer States in meetings of the 
Assembly of States Parties. We hope that will lead to 
more  States  becoming  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute. 
Also  in  the  same  vein,  in  August  this  year,  Japan, 
together with the Netherlands and the ICC, hosted an 
outreach  event  in  Tokyo  involving  non-States  parties 
in the Asia-Pacific region to share Japan’s experience 
in  acceding  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  harmonizing  its 
domestic  legislation  with  it.  In  April,  Ambassador 
Tomoko Akane — Public Prosecutor, Supreme Public 
Prosecutors  Office  of  Japan  and  candidate  for  ICC 
judge — also shared Japan’s experience with non-States 
parties  at  an  ICC  high-level  regional  seminar  held  in 
Seoul for the same purpose.
Discussions  are  ongoing  on  the  activation  of 
the  ICC’s  jurisdiction  in  the  crime  of  aggression.  I 
would like to express my gratitude to the facilitator of 
the  process  for  all  the  excellent  work  in  steering  the 
facilitation with professionalism and dedication, which 
is not an easy task.
Reiterating  the  importance  of  legal  clarity,  we 
strongly  hope  that  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties 
remains  united  for  the  effective  and  sustainable 
functioning of the ICC. Japan stands ready to continue 
to engage actively in the discussions in order to work 
towards a consensus-based solution.
Japan  will  continue  to  strongly  support  the  ICC’s 
work  in  the  fight  against  impunity.  Earlier  this  year, 
we were pleased to donate the Peace and Justice Bell to 
the Court as a symbol of this ongoing commitment. We 
hope that the Bell will serve as a reminder to all visitors 
to  the  Court  that  we  all  strive  for  peace  and  justice 
through supporting the important work of the ICC.
16/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
Mr.  Castro  Córdoba  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): My delegation thanks Judge Silvia Fernández 
de  Gurmendi,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court, for the presentation of the report on the activities 
of the Court for 2016-2017 (see A/72/349), pursuant to 
article  6  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and paragraph 28 of resolution 71/253.
The International Criminal Court is undeniably the 
most important achievement of international justice. It 
was born from the will of the international community 
to put an end to impunity for the most serious crimes 
against humanity and to deliver justice to their victims. 
Its  very  essence  and  its  main  strength  derive  from 
the fact that the yearning for justice is universal. The 
world  requires  that  there  be  no  State  where  impunity 
is allowed.
Therefore  we  welcome  the  actions  intended  to 
bring  about  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute 
and  its  amendments.  In  that  regard,  we  congratulate 
Portugal and Argentina for having ratified the Kampala 
amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression,  bringing 
the  number  of  ratifying  States  to  34.  Costa  Rica  also 
welcomes the fact that South Africa and The Gambia 
have  reconsidered  their  decisions  to  withdraw  from 
the  Court,  and  we  urge  all  States  parties  to  continue 
working to achieve universality.
With regard to the victims, my delegation recognizes 
and  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  Trust  Fund  and  its 
implementing partners at the local level are continuing 
to provide assistance to more than 455,000 victims, in 
both Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
by providing physical and psychological rehabilitation 
services  and  material  support  to  survivors  of  crimes 
defined  in  the  Statute.  We  are  also  struck  by  the  fact 
that  in  the  reporting  period,  the  Court  has  received  a 
total  of  4,725  requests  for  participation  or  reparation 
from victims. That is a reflection of the importance and 
the central role of the Court for the victims of the most 
heinous crimes under international law.
Returning to the common goal of ending impunity 
for  heinous  crimes,  we  cannot  forget  that  the  Court 
undeniably  functions  pursuant  to  the  principle  of 
complementarity.  It  was  not  established  to  replace 
national  courts  in  their  functions.  Here,  we  need  to 
reaffirm  that  the  primary  obligation  to  put  an  end  to 
impunity for the most heinous crimes falls to States in 
the responsible exercise of their sovereignty.
State  sovereignty 
imposes  obligations,  among 
them  that  of  investigating  and  prosecuting  crimes 
committed  under  the  State’s  jurisdiction.  Pursuant  to 
article  17,  paragraph  (a)  of  the  Statute,  only  when  a 
State party “is unwilling or unable genuinely to carry 
out the investigation or the prosecution” is it possible 
for  a  matter  to  be  brought  before  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  For  that  reason,  complementarity 
is  therefore  an  essential  element  in  the  machinery  of 
international justice.
However,  it  is  vital  to  be  clear  that  when  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  applies,  States  parties  must 
comply  with  the  unrenounceable  duties  arising  from 
the  Rome  Statute.  It  is  particularly  serious  when 
non-compliance  results  in  the  refusal  to  provide  the 
required  support  to  the  investigations  of  the  Office 
of  the  Prosecutor,  preventing  or  hindering  access  to 
evidence, which can disrupt a process, opening the way 
for  impunity.  Likewise,  the  fight  against  impunity  is 
hindered whenever a State party fails in its obligation 
to  carry  out  arrest  warrants.  The  lack  of  cooperation 
with the Court in carrying out such orders also impedes 
the justice that the victims demand and deserve.
Non-cooperation with the Court under the argument 
that it is not impartial because a high percentage of its 
cases are in the same region is not acceptable. It is time 
for  us  to  change  our  narrative.  Those  who  make  that 
argument fail to recognize that the situations in Mali, 
Côte D’Ivoire, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo and the two in the Central African Republic 
were referred to the Court by the Governments of those 
countries. As for the situations in Libya and the Sudan, 
they were referred by the Security Council. Only 2 out 
of 10 situations were initiated by the Court itself: the 
situations  in  Kenya  and  Georgia.  It  would  be  absurd 
to  claim  that  the  Prosecutor’s  Office  rejects  referrals 
from States parties in order to maintain a geographical 
balance in their cases.
Since  its  inception,  the  Court  has  dealt  with  a 
total  of  25  cases  and  carried  out  investigations  in  10 
situations. In addition to its investigations, the Office of 
the Prosecutor is currently conducting 10 preliminary 
examinations,  including  a  preliminary  investigation 
submitted by the Gabonese Republic on alleged crimes 
committed in its territory since May 2016.
To be able to continue complying with its mandate, 
the  ICC  requires  the  support  and  cooperation  of  the 
the 
entire 
international  community, 
in  particular 
17-35155
17/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
United  Nations,  with  which  it  shares  the  ideals  of 
accountability, the protection of human rights and the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  In 
that regard, we welcome the fact that the Court had the 
valuable cooperation of the United Nations on various 
issues, such as operational assistance in the field, the 
provision  of  United  Nations  personnel  for  interviews 
and,  on  several  occasions,  for  testimonies,  and  the 
disclosure  of  information  by  the  United  Nations, 
provided on a reimbursable basis.
However,  my  delegation  reiterates  the  need  for 
the  United  Nations  to  participate  in  financing  the 
referrals by the Security Council to the Criminal Court. 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  holds  the  Council 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and security, and by assuming those referrals, the Court 
is  helping  that  organ  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  In  those 
cases  of  cooperation,  article  13  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement between the Court and the United Nations, 
which  provides  for  the  economic  contribution  of  the 
United Nations, must apply.
To  conclude,  Costa  Rica  wishes  to  emphasize 
its  complete  support  for  the  Criminal  Court  and  its 
commitment to continue supporting the universalization, 
independence  and  integrity  of  the  Court  so  that,  in 
conjunction with the other States parties, and with the 
support  of  the  community  of  nations,  we  guarantee 
respect for and the fulfilment of international justice.
Mr. Racoviţă (Romania): Further to the statement 
delivered  by  the  European  Union,  to  which  Romania 
subscribes  fully,  the  Romanian  delegation  would  like 
to  thank  President  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  her 
thorough  presentation  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  its  annual  report  submitted  to  the 
United Nations (see A/72/349).
While the International Criminal Court is still under 
development and has not reached its full potential, we 
agree that the Court has established itself as an integral 
part of the international legal system. The existence of 
the ICC represents an important guarantor of the rights 
of  the  millions  of  victims  of  atrocity  crimes  around 
the world and provides an essential contribution to the 
fight against impunity and the establishment of the rule 
of law.
The  heavy  workload  highlighted  in  this  report 
points  yet  again 
the  need  for  a  permanent 
international  criminal  court  and  to  the  importance  of 
enhancing  the  Court’s  efficiency  and  effectiveness. 
to 
In  that  respect,  we  welcome  the  reform  measures 
undertaken to improve the performance and governance 
of the International Criminal Court and encourage their 
further implementation. We also note the rising number 
of situations submitted by States, which we see as a sign 
of  increasing  trust  in  the  Court’s  capacity  to  deliver 
high-quality justice. As it navigates in politically tense 
environments,  the  independent  judicial  machinery  of 
the ICC is staying the course. Yet, challenges persist, 
and  more  efforts  should  be  made  to  ensure  full  and 
prompt  cooperation  with  the  Court,  especially  with 
regard to arrests and the surrender of suspects.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Court  continues  to 
receive valuable support from the United Nations, both 
from Headquarters and from United Nations missions 
in  the  field.  At  the  same  time,  we  express  support 
for  actions  meant  to  further  explore  and  strengthen 
cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  Security 
Council  in  the  area  of  preventing  the  commission  of 
crimes under the Rome Statute and in facilitating the 
arrest  of  suspected  individuals.  In  that  context,  we 
caution  against  the  negative  effects  on  the  credibility 
of  the  criminal  justice  system  caused  by  the  lack  of 
follow-up by the Security Council to reported instances 
of  non-cooperation  in  the  case  of  its  own  referrals  to 
the  ICC.  Consequently,  we  join  the  calls  for  finding 
appropriate ways to address this problem.
On a general note, we support the activities aimed 
at  enhancing  judicial  cooperation  and  at  garnering 
diplomatic support and greater awareness of the Court’s 
mandate. While each State should deliver on its legal 
obligations  stemming  from  the  Rome  Statute  and/or 
resolutions of the Security Council, the ICC, together 
with supportive States, should invest in communicating 
better  about  its  work,  including  in  direct  dialogue 
with 
in  addressing 
lingering misperceptions.
the  countries  concerned  and 
Achieving  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute 
remains a long-term goal, to be pursued jointly by the 
Court and the States parties. We welcome the decisions 
by  South  Africa  and  The  Gambia  to  reverse  their 
previous decisions to withdraw from the 1998 Statute. 
Those latest developments have demonstrated the need 
for  more  constructive  dialogue  with  States  so  as  to 
understand and address their concerns, without affecting 
the  integrity  of  the  Statute.  Prosecuting  high-profile 
individuals  for  atrocity  crimes  is  inherently  marred 
by political and practical challenges, but we should all 
keep in mind the victims of unspeakable crimes, who 
18/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
place  their  ultimate  trust  in  the  international  justice 
system. It is in that spirit that Romania will continue to 
actively promote the ratification and effective domestic 
implementation of the Rome Statute and the Agreement 
on Privileges and Immunities of the Court.
As  the  ICC  is  a  court  of  last  resort,  Romania 
strongly  supports  the  Rome  Statute  system  based  on 
the  principle  of  complementarity.  Given  that  States 
carry  the  primary  responsibility  to  investigate  and 
prosecute  the  crimes  defined  in  the  Rome  Statute, 
strengthening  their  capacity  to  do  so  effectively  is 
crucial to the global fight to end impunity. As a country 
focal  point  for  complementarity  since  February  2017, 
Romania has been working to facilitate the exchange of 
information between the Court, States parties and other 
relevant stakeholders aimed at strengthening domestic 
jurisdictions,  including  on  complementarity-related 
capacity-building activities.
The activity of the Court should not be evaluated 
in  simplistic,  quantitative 
terms,  but  with  due 
consideration  to  its  long-term  impact,  serving  as  a 
deterrent to the most serious crimes under international 
law  and  as  a  powerful  tool  to  advance  the  culture  of 
accountability globally.
Ms.  Bird  (Australia):  When  we  met  to  consider 
this  agenda  item  a  year  ago,  Australia  acknowledged 
that the International Criminal Court (ICC) was facing 
more challenges than ever before and the need to work 
with States that had raised concerns. While that work 
is  ongoing  —  and  we  are  disappointed  by  Burundi’s 
withdrawal from the Rome Statute — we welcome the 
decisions of The Gambia and South Africa to rescind 
their withdrawals.
We also welcome the fact that States parties, civil 
society and individual citizens around the world have 
rallied around the ICC to confirm their commitment to 
the Court. Above all, we welcome the fact that the Court 
has not wavered in seeking to fulfil its mandate and has 
made significant progress in the fight to end impunity 
over the past year, as demonstrated by the report that 
President Fernández de Gurmendi has presented today 
(see A/72/349).
outreach to help explain the Court’s mandate and build 
support  for  its  work.  Australia  will  continue  to  work 
with all States to ensure that the Court is the strongest 
possible institution that it can be.
The  ICC  and  the  United  Nations  are  striving 
to  achieve  the  same  goals.  In  the  Preamble  to  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  goal  is  framed  as 
saving  succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of 
war.  The  preamble  of  the  Rome  Statute  expresses  it 
as  a  determination  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  the 
perpetrators  of  unimaginable  atrocities  that  deeply 
shock  the  conscience  of  humankind.  Just  as  the 
maintenance of international peace and security is the 
first purpose of the United Nations — as listed in Article 
1 of the Charter — the Rome Statute makes clear that 
the crimes over which the ICC has jurisdiction threaten 
the peace, security and well-being of the world, and that 
effective prosecution will contribute to the prevention 
of such crimes.
The  point  is  that  the  ICC  is  a  key  partner  of  the 
United  Nations.  As  a  key  partner,  it  is  critical  that 
the United Nations provides the ICC with the support 
it  needs  to  deliver  on  its  mandate.  We  welcome  the 
support  provided  to  the  Court  by  the  United  Nations 
and  encourage  the  Secretary-General  to  continue 
to  enhance  cooperation 
the 
Relationship Agreement.
in  accordance  with 
We have, however, heard the Prosecutor’s repeated 
requests  for  effective  Security  Council  follow-up  and 
support each time she briefs the Council on the situations 
the Council has referred to the ICC under resolutions 
1593 (2005) and 1970 (2011). It is essential that referrals 
be accompanied by the Council’s clear demonstration of 
ongoing political support to emphasize the shared goal 
of ending impunity, reiterate the obligations that States 
are  under  to  cooperate  with  the  Court,  and  minimize 
any  possible  perception  that  the  ICC  is  subject  to  the 
will  of  the  Council.  We  are  disappointed  that  that 
support has not yet been forthcoming, and we call on 
the Security Council to provide the necessary support 
to the Court.
However, we do not pretend that no more challenges 
lie ahead. The ICC’s mandate to hold to account those 
most responsible for serious international crimes — who 
all too often are among the most powerful — is likely to 
mean that the Court will always have more than its fair 
share  of  critics.  States  parties  must  engage  in  greater 
If we are committed to reorienting this Organization 
to focus on prevention, we must not neglect the deterrent 
effect  of  consistent  and  reliable  justice.  When  States 
with jurisdiction are unable or unwilling to investigate 
and  prosecute  Rome  Statute  crimes,  the  ICC  has  a 
critical role to play.
17-35155
19/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
Would-be  perpetrators  will  think  twice  if  they 
know  that  the  General  Assembly  stands  behind  the 
ICC  and  that  the  international  community  is  serious 
about holding to account those responsible for serious 
international crimes. Victims will no longer feel ignored 
if  their  voices  are  heard.  Affected  communities  will 
start  to  heal  if  accountability  is  used  to  break  cycles 
of  violence.  For  that  reason,  we  urge  those  Member 
States that have not already done so to ratify the Rome 
Statute. We also call on the General Assembly to fulfil 
its role in the vital partnership between the ICC and the 
United Nations.
Mr. Weckowicz (Poland): Poland aligns itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union on behalf of its member States. We would like to 
supplement that statement with a few comments in our 
national capacity.
At the outset, allow me to thank President Fernández 
de Gurmendi for her thorough briefing on the Court’s 
activities  in  the  reporting  period.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  has  strived  to  maintain  the 
highest standards of proceedings and proved again its 
importance  in  delivering  justice  to  the  victims.  For 
that, we commend the Court.
We  also  applaud  the  efforts  to  enhance  the 
efficiency of the Court and to expedite its work. Poland 
had the honour of hosting the judges of the Court in May 
during a judicial retreat in Kraków, where those issues, 
among  others,  were  discussed.  During  their  stay,  the 
judges  also  visited  the  Auschwitz-Birkenau  Memorial 
and  Museum  —  the  former Nazi  concentration  and 
extermination  camp  where  the  most  serious  crimes 
were committed.
Obviously,  the  Court  cannot  deliver  justice  on 
its  own,  hence  the  importance  of  complementarity, 
cooperation  and  the  assistance  of  States.  Moreover, 
the connection should be recognized between the rule 
of  law,  respect  for  international  law,  and  support  for 
criminal justice mechanisms. In our view, not only can 
the ICC contribute to the fight against impunity and to 
the  prevention  of  the  most  serious  crimes,  it  can  also 
play  a  vital  role  in  upholding  international  law  and 
rules-based  order  in  challenging  times.  That  is  one 
more reason to lend the ICC all possible support.
We  have  no  doubts  that  bringing  to  justice  the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  is  one  of  the 
factors  that  may  foster  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations,  and  that  the  International  Criminal  Court 
can also serve that aim. Poland, which is an incoming 
member  of 
the  Security  Council  for  2018-2019, 
recognizes that a more productive cooperation between 
the  Council  and  the  Court  could  render  a  significant 
service to the cause of international peace and security.
The Rome Statute creates a system in which States 
are equal in their rights and obligations and in which 
every  State  is  free  to  join  or  leave.  While  124  is  a 
significant number of accessions or ratifications, Poland 
hopes  that  that  number  will  increase  and  supports 
the  universalization  of  the  Statute.  We  welcomed  the 
news  about  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  and  The 
Gambia revoking their decisions to withdraw from the 
Rome Statute.
We  would  like  to  underline  our  commitment  to 
activating  the  ICC’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression.  The  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute took place already seven years ago in Kampala, 
and  since  then  34  States  parties,  including  Poland, 
have  ratified  the  amendment.  There  is  only  one  final 
condition that needs to be met in order to accomplish 
activation, and Poland hopes that the Assembly of States 
Parties to the Rome Statute will approve the activation 
of the Court’s jurisdiction in December this year.
Throughout  history,  Poland  has 
repeatedly 
fallen  victim  to  aggression.  Its  inhabitants  have 
suffered  unprecedented 
crimes  perpetrated  by 
invaders — particularly during the Second World War. 
It is our dream to save others from such cruelties, and 
the Kampala amendments to the Rome Statute on the 
crime of aggression are a step in the right direction.
Poland  supports  the  ICC  in  its  efforts  to  achieve 
justice and peace in different parts of the world in the 
belief  that  the  international  community  should  draw 
conclusions  from  history,  do  its  best  to  prevent  the 
suffering of innocent people and bring those responsible 
for it to justice. Strengthened cooperation between the 
Court and international actors could serve those lofty 
aims. Let us work further towards their fulfilment.
Mr. Wenaweser (Lichtenstein): I would like to thank 
President Fernández de Gurmendi for her outstanding 
service  to  the  cause  of  international  criminal  justice. 
This is the last time that she will present a report of the 
Court to the Assembly, and we will miss her.
the 
twentieth 
anniversary  of  its  adoption.  Its  history  has  been 
eventful,  and  it  has  been  a  success.  The  difficult 
The  Rome  Statute 
is  nearing 
20/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
agreement reached in Rome was followed by a very fast 
ratification  process.  A  wave  of  collective  enthusiasm 
and  strong  commitment  to  multilateralism  carried 
the  Court  forward  at  an  unexpected  speed.  However, 
the  Court  also  soon  experienced  strong  opposition, 
a  systematic  effort  to  undermine  its  independent 
functioning,  and 
those  political  headwinds  have 
continued to this day. That should come as no surprise. 
The  Court’s  mandate  is  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
the  most  serious  crimes  under  international  law.  Its 
policy is to identify the individuals who bear the largest 
responsibility for those crimes. Those individuals can 
be in very powerful positions, including Head of State. 
That  is  almost  bound  to  result  in  political  opposition 
and attacks against the very mandate of the Court.
The  Court  does  not  find  itself  in  a  confrontation 
with  a  particular  region  of  the  world.  Rather,  it  is 
a  confrontation  with  those  who  believe  that  some 
individuals should be beyond the reach of the law — a 
view  that  continues  to  exist  in  all  parts  of  the  world, 
even though it is firmly rejected by both the letter and 
the spirit of the Rome Statute. In speaking for the Court 
today, we are therefore not simply defending a landmark 
achievement in the history of international law; we are 
also speaking law to power.
A few weeks from now, States parties to the Rome 
Statute  will  have  the  opportunity  to  do  the  same,  to 
speak law to power on an issue whose relevance could 
not  be  more  obvious  today:  criminalizing  the  most 
serious forms of the illegal use of force. Regulating the 
use of force was one of the key objectives in creating 
the United Nations, and it also stood at the beginning 
of the international criminal justice project — the trials 
conducted in Nuremberg and Tokyo.
At  the  Rome  Conference,  many  States  felt  that 
the  greatest 
international  criminal-justice  project 
could be complete only if the crime of aggression was 
part  of  it.  After  very  difficult  discussions,  the  crime 
was  indeed  included  as  one  of  the  four  core  crimes 
in  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  However,  exercise  of 
jurisdiction was deferred until agreement on a definition 
was found. That agreement was reached, after years of 
painstaking  legal  work,  at  the  Review  Conference  on 
the Rome Statute that took place in 2010 in Kampala. 
States adopted by consensus all the relevant provisions 
for  the  Court  to  be  able  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over 
the crime of aggression. Those same States also agreed 
that the Kampala amendments would be activated once 
at least 30 States had ratified them and no earlier than 
1 January 2017. With 34 ratifications in place, we are 
now finally in a position to make that historic decision.
The main features of the Kampala amendments are 
worth  recalling.  Only  persons  in  leadership  positions 
are criminally accountable. Not all forms of the illegal 
use  of  force  lead  to  criminal  accountability;  only  the 
most  serious  forms  that  constitute  by  their  character, 
gravity and scale a manifest violation of the Charter of 
the United Nations amount to acts of aggression.
The Court can investigate on the basis of a Security 
Council  determination,  in  accordance  with  Article 
39  of  the  Charter.  However,  more  importantly,  in  the 
absence  of  such  a  determination,  the  Court  can  still 
become involved as a result of relevant findings of the 
Court itself. The amendments thus fully safeguard the 
judicial independence of the Court.
Finally,  while  the  nationals  of  non-State  parties 
are exempt from the Court’s jurisdiction altogether, the 
jurisdiction  does  apply  between  States  parties  if  two 
conditions are met. First, one of the States involved in the 
conflict must have ratified the Kampala amendments. 
Secondly, the State alleged to have committed the act 
of aggression must not have declared that its nationals 
are not subject to the Court’s jurisdiction.
This  briefly  illustrates  the  key  features  of  the 
Kampala  amendments.  First,  they  are  to  a  very  large 
extent based on pre-existing international law, just like 
the  rest  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Secondly,  the  scope  of 
jurisdiction agreed in Kampala is deep, and it is narrow. 
It  excludes,  most  significantly,  all  nationals  of  the  70 
States that have yet to join the Rome Statute — in stark 
contrast to the rest of the jurisdiction foreseen under the 
Rome Statute. In addition, it also gives States parties the 
policy choice not to subject its nationals to the Court’s 
jurisdiction,  even  if  they  are  to  commit  the  crime  of 
aggression on the territory of a State that has ratified 
the amendments. The Kampala consensus thus bears all 
the hallmarks of compromise, which can come as little 
surprise, given the legal and political difficulties of the 
project as a whole.
There has been much talk recently of the application 
of the Kampala regime to States parties that have not 
ratified  the  amendment.  The  solution  agreed  upon  in 
Kampala  is  straightforward:  while  the  amendments 
indeed  bind  only  the  States  that  have  ratified  them, 
ratifying  States  at  the  same  time  enjoy  the  legal 
protection against crimes of aggression committed on 
their  territory.  That  simply  reflects  the  principle  of 
17-35155
21/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
territoriality, which in fact guides the Rome Statute as 
a whole.
That said, we are confident that our efforts to bridge 
that difference of opinion among States parties will be 
successful  in  the  next  few  weeks.  We  are  very  much 
committed  to  reaching  that  goal  with  States  parties. 
The activation of the Kampala amendments will send 
a  strong  message  of  the  common  sense  of  purpose 
among  States  parties  and  illustrate  the  importance  of 
multilateralism.  It  will  not  only  complete  the  Rome 
Statute  in  its  original  conception,  but  it  will  also 
complement the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr.  Cho  Tae-yul  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express my sincere appreciation 
to  President  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  her 
comprehensive presentation of the report (see A/72/349). 
My delegation also commends the joint efforts by the 
presidency, the Chambers, the Office of the Prosecutor 
and  the  Registry  to  help  achieve  an  end  to  impunity 
for perpetrators of the most serious crimes of concern 
to the international community through various means, 
including  the  improvement  of  the  functioning  of  the 
Court in a more efficient and effective manner.
Among  the  remarkable  achievements  the  Court 
has  made  so  far,  we  note  that  it  issued  a  judgment 
on  charges  of  offences  against  the  administration  of 
justice,  the  first  ever  in  its  history.  We  also  welcome 
the contribution made by the Trust Fund for Victims, 
which  has  helped  alleviate  the  pains  of  almost  half  a 
million victims.
With  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of the Rome Statute less than a year away, now is the 
time for the United Nations and the Court to work more 
closely  together  and  to  reassert  the  relevance  and  the 
importance of international criminal justice in securing 
the rule of law and international peace and security.
The  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  was 
established  as  an  independent  permanent  court  in 
relationship with the United Nations. The fundamental 
tenet of this relationship envisioned in the Rome Statute 
is  encapsulated  in  the  reaffirmation  of  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations in 
the preamble of the Statute, which has been faithfully 
upheld  and  implemented  in  the  actual  practice  of 
the Court.
Indeed,  we  cannot  overemphasize  the  significant 
role that the ICC has played through its work to sustain 
the three pillars of the United Nations, namely, peace 
and security, development, and human rights. Securing 
criminal  justice  for  perpetrators  of  heinous  crimes 
that shock the conscience of humanity constitutes part 
and  parcel  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  provides  a  solid 
basis  for  the  successful  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. For that reason, 
we support the ongoing cooperation between the Court 
and the United Nations on various levels, as set out in 
the report and presentation.
While  the  progress  made  on  its  path  to  ending 
impunity  is  quite  remarkable,  the  Court  has  also 
faced  a  harsh  reality  on  various  fronts.  To  firmly 
establish  itself  as  a  robust  and  reliable  institution 
for  international  criminal  justice,  the  Court  should 
overcome  considerable  challenges,  with  the  help  of 
various stakeholders, most notably States parties.
First,  as  an  international  court,  the  ICC  cannot 
sustain itself without the active cooperation of multiple 
stakeholders,  especially  States  parties,  at  each  and 
every step of the process. To promote efforts towards 
universality and to enhance cooperation with States, it 
is critical that the Court further reach out to interested 
regions,  States  and  relevant  organizations.  In  that 
context,  the  eighth  high-level  regional  seminar  on 
fostering cooperation with the Court, which was held 
in Seoul in April, provided an invaluable opportunity 
for enhanced understanding of the ICC on the part of 
Asia-Pacific States.
While the cooperation between the ICC and States 
parties is vital for the proper functioning of the system, it 
is also indispensable for the Court to secure cooperation 
vis-à-vis  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties,  the  United 
Nations  and  other  international  organizations,  civil-
society  organizations  and  non-party  States.  Against 
that  backdrop,  it  is  regrettable  that  the  Court-issued 
requests  for  arrest  and  surrender  are  still  outstanding 
for  15  individuals.  That  requires  tremendous  and 
unyielding efforts by all of us, as exemplified by recent 
instances of non-cooperation.
Secondly, the success of our fight against impunity 
hinges not only on adequate cooperation but also on the 
universal application of the Rome Statute. The number 
of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  has  more  than 
doubled since its entry into force in 2002, a remarkable 
achievement  indeed.  Nevertheless,  the  number  still 
falls short of two thirds of the Members of the United 
Nations. The wider participation of States in the Rome 
22/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
Statute  would  undoubtedly  lead  to  stronger  support 
for  the  Court.  In  that  respect,  we  welcome  the  wise 
decisions of The Gambia and South Africa concerning 
their respective membership of the ICC family. We also 
encourage the remaining State to follow suit.
Thirdly,  given 
the  ever-increasing  caseloads 
that  the  Court  faces  today,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
ICC  improve  efficiency  at  various  stages,  while  not 
losing  sight  of  the  importance  of  striking  a  balance 
between  fairness  and  expediency.  In  that  regard,  we 
appreciate the Court’s continued focus on streamlining 
its  procedures  by  updating  the  Chambers  Practice 
Manual  with  additional  best  practices,  as  well  as  by 
adopting  meaningful  amendments  to  the  Regulations 
of  the  Court.  Such  initiatives  are  conducive  not  only 
to  enhancing  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the 
functioning  of  the  Court  but  also  to  garnering  the 
broader support and trust of States parties.
The Republic of Korea has been a staunch supporter 
of  the  ICC  since  its  inception.  We  will  continue  to 
be  an  important  part  of  the  concerted  efforts  of  the 
international  community  to  establish  the  ICC  as  a 
responsible,  universal  and  efficient  institution  to  end 
impunity  for  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes 
against humanity. In that vein, we have full confidence 
in  the  able  and  accommodating  leadership  of  the 
incoming President of the Assembly of States Parties, 
Mr.  O-Gon  Kwon,  and  we  will  provide  adequate 
assistance to him in discharging his important duty.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  I  would  like  to 
commend  the  vital  role  of  President  Silvia  Fernández 
de Gurmendi in leading the Court towards maturity as 
a dedicated President and as a passionate judge of the 
Court for the past nine years.
Mr.  Garcia  Moritán 
in 
Spanish):  It  is  a  great  pleasure  for  me  to  address  the 
Assembly with you, Sir, in the Chair.
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  the  great 
appreciation  of  the  Argentine  Republic  at  receiving 
this  new  report  of  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  our  compatriot  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi, to whom we pay tribute for her tireless work 
as  President  of  the  Court.  I  also  wish  to  express  my 
great appreciation for reports of the Secretary-General 
on the implementation of article 3 of the Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  (A/72/342)  and  on  the 
expenses incurred and reimbursement received by the 
the  United  Nations  and 
United Nations in connection with assistance provided 
to the International Criminal Court (A/72/372).
We  look  forward  to  the  adoption  this  year  of  the 
draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (A/72/L.3),  in  conjunction  with  the 
presentation of the report of the Court by the President 
and the debate on the relevant agenda item.
The  Court,  through  the  laudable  work  that  it  has 
carried out since the last presentation of the report (see 
A/71/PV.37), has once again factually demonstrated that 
it is a fundamental tool in the fight against impunity and 
an essential element of the rule of law at the international 
level.  On  the  eve  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Rome Statute, Argentina reaffirms its 
ongoing commitment to the Court and to the universal 
nature  of  the  Statute.  Such  support  by  Argentina 
is  evident  in  various  ways,  among  which  we  would 
note  the  signing  of  cooperation  agreements  with  the 
Court — one on the issue of witness protection, signed 
on  21  November  2016,  and  another  agreement  related 
to the enforcement of sentences, which was signed on 
18 April 2017.
also 
ratified 
Argentina  has 
the  Kampala 
amendments on the crime of aggression and welcomes 
the  fact  that  the  threshold  of  necessary  ratifications 
has  been  reached  to  enable  the  Court  to  exercise  its 
jurisdiction  over  that  crime.  Argentina  resolutely 
supports  the  triggering  of  such  jurisdiction  by  the 
Assembly  of  State  Parties  in  December  2017  without 
prejudice  to  or  reopening  of  the  agreements  reached 
in Kampala. Such triggering will complete the judicial 
structure  of  the  Court,  reaffirming  the  prevalence  of 
law and justice over force in international relations.
We welcome the fact that the Court has been able 
to  develop  its  activities  relating  both  to  preliminary 
examinations  and  to  situations  and  cases  in  the 
discharge of its mandate within the limits of allocated 
resources. In that regard, we call on all Member States 
to become parties to the Rome Statute and to bear in 
mind the particular nature of the International Criminal 
Court  when  assessing  its  annual  budget  so  that  the 
budget may be approved at the next Assembly of States 
Parties.  allowing  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate  and 
appropriately perform its crucial functions.
I would like to refer to the relationship of the Court 
with  the  United  Nations.  The  relationship  between 
the Organization and the Court is vital, always within 
respect for the judicial independence of the Court. In 
17-35155
23/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
this context, we reiterate some of Argentina’s concerns 
regarding  the  referrals  of  situations  by  the  Security 
Council, particularly the matter of the financial cost of 
such referrals. Those costs have so far been exclusively 
borne by the States parties to the Court, despite the clear 
provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  according  to  which  the 
cost of referrals must be borne by the United Nations.
the  United  Nations  and 
The  fight  against  impunity  is  an  objective  of  the 
States parties to the Rome Statute and also of the States 
Members of the United Nations, but that objective must 
be accompanied by a commitment to provide the Court 
with the necessary resources to carry out its functions. 
A  lack  of  action  in  that  regard  could  jeopardize  the 
sustainability of the Court’s investigations and have an 
impact on the credibility of the Organization. Likewise, 
we believe that there is scope for a greater and better 
relationship  between  the  Court  and  the  Security 
Council, especially regarding the work of the Council’s 
subsidiary bodies such as the sanctions committees or 
the Working Group on Children and Armed Conflict.
Finally,  Argentina  wishes  to  emphasize  that  the 
significant  contribution  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  in  the  fight  against  impunity  for  the  most 
serious  international  crimes  is  also  a  contribution  to 
the objectives of this Organization. We wish to recall 
the  noble  mission  and  functions  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral  system  that  aims  to 
promote  respect  for  human  rights  and  achieve  lasting 
peace  in  accordance  with  international  law  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again  state 
Argentina’s  firm  commitment  to  the  International 
Criminal Court.
Mr.  Hawke  (New  Zealand):  We  thank  President 
Fernández de Gurmendi for her report (see A/72/349) 
and  welcome 
the 
contribution of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
to  international  criminal  justice  and  its  relationship 
with the United Nations.
the  opportunity 
to  discuss 
As this will be her last report, we thank President 
to 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  her  contribution 
the  ICC.  Under  her 
the  Court  has 
prioritized  improving  the  transparency,  efficiency 
and accountability of the institution. We welcome the 
progress  made  in  developing  objectively  measurable 
performance indicators, and we hope that progress will 
leadership, 
continue under the leadership of the new ICC President. 
We were also pleased to welcome President Fernández 
de Gurmendi to Auckland earlier this year and to see 
her  at  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  which  was  recently 
held in Samoa.
New Zealand is a strong supporter of the ICC and 
its mandate to hold accountable those who commit the 
most serious international crimes, regardless of where 
they  occur.  For  that  reason,  New  Zealand  remains  a 
supporter of the universality of the Rome Statute and 
the  principle  of  complementarity.  Challenges  to  the 
universality of the Court go to its credibility and must 
be taken seriously. New Zealand has consistently taken 
the view that we must listen to one another’s views and 
constructively  debate  concerns  raised  by  all  Member 
States  and  address  them  to  the  extent  possible  while 
preserving the integrity of the Court.
that 
to  universality 
Last  year,  we  saw  some  of  the  most  significant 
challenges 
the  Court  has 
experienced to date. To overcome those challenges, we 
reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  meaningful  dialogue 
with the Court and among States parties. Constructive 
dialogue  continued  at  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties 
under the leadership of our President, His Excellency 
Sidiki  Kaba.  We  welcomed  South  Africa  and  The 
Gambia’s  decisions  to  remain  as  States  parties.  We 
further encourage Burundi to reconsider its withdrawal 
from  the  Rome  Statute.  We  hope  that  with  continued 
engagement,  there  remains  a  pathway  back  to  full 
membership of the Court.
Although  we  are  pleased  that  the  Court  has 
weathered  those  significant  challenges,  we  must  not 
be  complacent.  New  Zealand  remains  committed  to 
continuing  dialogue  that  is  open,  honest,  respectful 
and 
focused  on  our  common  goal  of  ending 
impunity.  We  recognize  that  achieving  this  goal  will 
include  cooperation  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international levels.
New  Zealand  recognizes  the  important  role  the 
Security Council can play in achieving accountability 
for international crimes. New Zealand has consistently 
said  that  the  Council  should  carefully  consider  the 
use of its referral powers to avoid the perception that 
it  is  using  referrals  as  a  political  tool  in  the  midst  of 
a  conflict.  That  only  politicizes  the  Court  and  can 
prolong both conflict and impunity.
When  the  Council  decides  to  refer  a  situation  to 
the Court, it should do so with a clear commitment to 
24/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
to 
follow up and ensure that the Court receives support, 
cooperation  and  resources 
implement  Council 
decisions. In that regard, we share the Court’s concern 
about the lack of follow-up of Council referrals. Failure 
to  take  action  calls  into  question  the  authority  of  the 
Council  and  its  decisions.  We  reiterate  that  costs 
incurred by the ICC as a result of decisions by United 
Nations organs should be attributed to, and accounted 
from,  the  United  Nations  budget,  which  is  provided 
for under the Rome Statute. We look forward to seeing 
progress on this issue.
The Assembly of States Parties faces an important 
milestone with respect to the crime of aggression. The 
significance  of  enabling  the  Court  to  hold  political 
and  military  leaders  accountable  for  initiating  and 
engaging in an act of aggression cannot be understated. 
Accountability  for  the  crime  of  aggression  not  only 
complements the prohibition on the illegal use of force 
under the Charter of the United Nations by providing 
for  individual  criminal  responsibility,  but  is  also  one 
of  the  most  significant  developments  in  international 
criminal law since the establishment of the International 
Military  Tribunal  at  Nuremburg.  As  the  Assembly  of 
States Parties prepares to bring the crime of aggression 
amendments  into  force,  New  Zealand  emphasizes  the 
importance  of  a  consensus  decision  that  supports  the 
wider credibility of the Court.
For  our  part,  New  Zealand  remains  committed  to 
the Court and to working with others to ensure that the 
Court  continues  to  be,  and  is  seen  to  be,  an  effective 
and sustainable judicial institution.
Mr.  Locsin  (Philippines):  We  thank  President 
Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  her  comprehensive 
report (see A/72/349).
The  Philippines  —  a  real  democracy  and  a 
multi-ethnic  Christian  majority  and  Muslim  minority 
society that cherishes diversity in all aspects in a spirit 
of  religious  and  political  tolerance  that  has  marked 
both religions at their best, and whose core values are 
American  —  once  again  reaffirms  its  commitment 
to  justice  and  to  fighting  intolerance  and  impunity, 
ensuring that perpetrators are held accountable for their 
crimes. The Philippines remains strongly committed to 
upholding the rule of law and human rights.
are  committed  by  men,  not  by  abstract  entities,  and 
only by punishing individuals who commit such crimes 
can the provisions of international law be enforced — a 
reaffirmation of man’s free will for good and evil.
Without  Nuremburg,  we  have  little  hope  and 
commitment  to  saving  ourselves  and  our  children 
from the scourge of war, which twice in our founding 
fathers’ and mothers’ lifetimes brought untold sorrow 
to  all  humanity.  Without  Nuremberg,  justice  could 
not  have  coped  with  the  limitless  ingenuity  of  evil 
men  in  perpetrating  acts  that  defied  the  imagination 
of  lawmakers  until  they  saw  with  horror  those  acts 
committed,  from  the  Rape  of  Nanking  to  Auschwitz, 
from  the  killing  fields  of  Biafra  and  Cambodia  to 
Bosnia and Rwanda, from the blood bath that created 
Bangladesh to the torture centres of the Caliphate.
It  is  people  individually,  then  collectively,  who 
make  justice  work.  In  the  same  way,  they  commit 
injustices  on  a  vast  scale.  There  have  been  many 
heroes  from  Nuremberg  to  the  establishment  of  the 
International Criminal Court, the adoption of the Rome 
Statute  in  1998  and  the  election  of  its  first  bench  of 
judges in 2003. Those heroes — too many to name but 
not  enough  to  have  prevented  the  outrages  that  they 
prosecuted and judged — range from lawyers and civil 
society advocates to witnesses and the victims.
No  one  is  above  the  law.  The  Philippines  joins 
previous  speakers  in  upholding  and  defending  the 
Rome  Statute.  To  be  sure,  despite  the  creation  of  the 
Court, one thing has not changed: the collective work of 
delivering international justice remains a vocation that 
is difficult, thankless and even dangerous.
Challenges  remain.  One  of  them  is  universality. 
The Philippines joins the call for many more countries 
to  ratify  or  accede  to  the  Rome  Statute.  Whether  or 
not we are States parties, we should all protect human 
rights  and  build  domestic  capacities  to  enforce  them 
and punish their violation. The Philippines once again 
calls  on  the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  to  refrain  from  using  their  veto  in  situations 
patently 
to 
take  the  necessary  follow-up  measures  in  situations 
referred to the Court so as to uphold the credibility of 
both institutions.
involving  mass  atrocity  crimes,  and 
The legacy of Nuremburg is that individuals can be 
made accountable even if their acts were not statutory 
crimes  and  even  if  Governments  tolerated  or  even 
sanctioned those acts. Crimes against international law 
In  the  same  spirit  of  genuine  understanding,  in 
advance of the sixteenth Assembly of States Parties in 
December, the Philippines also supports full and candid 
dialogue  and  consultations  to  address  allegations  of 
17-35155
25/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
inequality  and  unfairness  in  the  work  of  the  Court. 
Judges  are  only  human,  as  the  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights so eloquently said. Nonetheless, the 
work that those judges do far, far outweighs the flaws 
of individuals that discredit the Court’s noble mission: 
to  provide  justice  where  otherwise  none  would  be 
possible, to protect the weak whom none of the strong 
will  protect,  and  to  vindicate  their  rights  that  have 
been trampled.
In 
that  context, 
let  me  briefly  mention 
the 
Philippine campaign against illegal drugs, which pose 
an  existential  threat  to  my  country.  We  were  advised 
to  tolerate  a  worsening  drug  situation,  urged  to  live 
with the threat it poses by avoiding strong measures to 
defeat it, and to legalize drugs so as to make addiction a 
benign condition. But legalizing such a crime does not 
make it less of one. We refuse to do that. We cannot live 
with  what  does  not  let  our  people  live  in  peace,  with 
well-being, freedom and national security. Ever in the 
mind of every country in Asia is the subjugation of a 
great empire by two others flooding it with opium.
We remain resolute in combating the proliferation 
of  drugs  and  the  prevalence  of  drug  addiction  in  our 
country. A whole-of-nation approach is needed to solve 
that problem, and vigorous law enforcement is definitely 
part  of  it.  As  many  in  the  Assembly  now  know,  and 
the United Nations has alerted us, there is an intimate 
and indisputable relationship between terrorism and the 
illegal drug trade. The siege of Marawi and what was 
found there proves that conclusively.
Let  me 
reiterate  our  basic  principles.  The 
Philippines is committed to upholding the rule of law 
and respecting human rights in the fight against illegal 
drugs. We do not condone killings. It is tragic that many 
deaths have taken place outside the framework of lawful 
police  operations.  They  are  being  investigated  and 
prosecuted in the Philippines’ criminal justice system, 
as many of them were found to be rub-outs committed 
by  unknown  groups,  perhaps  taking  advantage  of  the 
Government’s campaign.
Accountability  in  the  campaign  is  of  overriding 
concern  to  the  President.  He  has  ordered  the  internal 
cleansing  of  the  entire  police  organization,  relieved  a 
major command and reassigned the campaign from the 
national police to a specialized drug enforcement agency 
with a long record of cooperation with its counterparts 
in  the  United  States  and  Europe.  Government  critics 
now  object  that  the  agency  is  too  small  to  cope  with 
the drug problem. It is either too much or too little. One 
cannot please everybody. As a State party to the Rome 
Statute,  the  Philippines  will  cooperate  in  providing 
authentic  information  and  has  invited  the  United 
Nations  to  join  it  in  that  effort,  with  the  exception  of 
politicized individuals with a personal stake in proving 
themselves right no matter what.
The  Court  is  one  of  last  resort.  The  Philippines 
itself has a responsibility and a right to prosecute crimes 
under the Rome Statute. We have a functioning criminal 
justice system capable of prosecuting those crimes. In 
the spirit of the law, let us all show that complementarity 
works, and that biased intervention — even if merely 
vocal — is not necessary.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  would  like  to  begin  our  statement  by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi,  for  the  presentation  of  her  report  (see 
A/72/349),  in  which  she  details  the  administrative 
and judicial activities carried out by the Court for the 
period from 1 August 2016 to 31 July, submitted to the 
General Assembly in accordance with article 6 of the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  paragraph 
28 of resolution 71/253. We also thank Mexico for the 
introduction  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.3,  which  my 
country has the honour of co-sponsoring.
My delegation is pleased to note that last year the 
International Criminal Court continued to have a high 
volume of work and that the Office of the Prosecutor 
is  pursuing  investigations  in  10  situations.  Moreover, 
we are aware that the International Criminal Court has 
made significant achievements in recent years, but we 
also acknowledge that much remains to be done and that 
the  path  before  us  is  long,  filled  with  challenges  and 
opportunities to move forward in a process that opens 
the door to judging serious violations of human rights, 
to the possibility of judging those who have committed 
crimes  defined  in  the  Rome  Statute,  and,  even  more 
importantly, to transforming the Court into an effective 
tool of deterrence for those crimes in the future.
Therefore,  our  country  supports  the  adoption  by 
consensus, at the upcoming Assembly of States Parties 
to the Rome Statute, to be held in this city in December, 
of a decision to activate jurisdiction over the crime of 
aggression, which would reinforce the jurisdiction and 
competence of the International Criminal Court. That 
26/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
is part of a new commitment taken on last year when 
my country deposited with the Secretary-General our 
instrument of ratification of the Kampala amendment 
on  the  crime  of  aggression  and  of  the  principles 
and  values  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court,
Likewise,  as  part  of  our  commitment  to  the 
international community and the Criminal Court itself, 
in  order  to  strengthen  the  regulatory  and  operational 
structure, last year we implemented internal processes, 
in accordance with our national legislation, to ratify as 
soon as possible the Agreement on the Privileges and 
Immunities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  as 
we  firmly  believe  that  that  instrument  will  facilitate 
not  only  the  carrying  out  of  its  functions  but  also  of 
its purposes.
El  Salvador  is  one  of  the  most  recent  countries 
to  adhere  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  Kampala 
amendments,  as  the  result  of  a  long  dialogue  process 
involving  various  forces  and  actors  of  the  country, 
thereby  leading  to  a  more  concrete  and  realistic 
knowledge  of  the  Court’s  powers  and  competencies. 
We  believe  that  El  Salvador  represents  a  successful 
example of the universalization of the Rome Statute, and 
as a country we will offer our experience to any State 
Member of the United Nations that has yet to deposit 
its  ratification  instrument  in  order  to  help  overcome 
any  erroneous  juridical  preconception  concerning  the 
Court and the Statute.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  conclude  my  statement  by 
reiterating  our  country’s    deep  commitment  to  and 
support  for  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. We urge once again those who have not done so 
to ratify the Rome Statute and its two amendments and 
to continue with the analysis with a view to achieving 
full  universality  in  the  near  future  so  as  to  promote 
justice and reduce impunity at the international level.
Mr. Lambertini (Italy): Italy welcomes the report 
on  the  activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) (see A/72/349) and the opportunity to participate 
in today’s debate. Let me warmly thank the President 
of the Court, Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, for 
her presentation today and the work that she has done 
over  her  years  as  President  of  the  Court.  The  report 
and the President’s address today show the continuing 
efforts of the Court, which is facing a heavy workload, 
to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  its  proceedings  while 
continuing to meet the increasing demand for justice.
Italy aligns itself with the statement delivered earlier 
by the observer of the European Union. I would like to 
emphasize only a few points in my national capacity.
First of all, it is essential for States to respect the 
independence of the Court. At the same time, it is our 
role as State representatives to deal with all potential 
concerns  and  tackle  through  dialogue  at  the  political 
level all relevant issues.
During  the  past  three  years  in  our  role  as 
Vice-President of the Assembly of States Parties in New 
York, we have been proud to work side by side with the 
President  of  that  Assembly,  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Senegal,  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  in  his  efforts  to 
improve  dialogue  among  States  parties  on  important 
issues  of  common  concern.  The  Assembly  of  States 
Parties  continues  to  be  the  proper  forum  to  discuss  a 
number of issues of common interest for States parties, 
and we have an important session in December.
remains  a  common  concern  of 
At  the  same  time,  however,  the  fight  against 
impunity 
the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  not  just  of  the 
123  States  parties.  Therefore,  it  is  equally  important 
to  discuss  accountability  for  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity here at the United Nations, together 
with all other Member States. Today’s debate provides 
us with a good opportunity to do so.
The  Rome  Statute  is  a  cornerstone  of  the  fight 
against  impunity  and  the  establishment  of  the  age 
of  accountability.  On  17  July  2018,  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Statute  will  be 
celebrated,  and  several  events  are  in  preparation 
to  mark  the  anniversary.  The  importance  of  the 
treaty,  which  created  the  first  and  only  permanent 
international criminal tribunal, is evident. The ICC is a 
unique institution, and it is important to work together 
to further strengthen it.
Following  the  Nuremberg  and  Tokyo  trials  after 
the  Second  World  War  and  the  establishment  of  the 
United  Nations,  it  took  more  than  50  years  for  the 
international  community  to  come  together  in  Rome 
in  1998  and  finalize  this  ambitious  treaty,  which  was 
inspired by the fundamental principles of international 
justice. This treaty shares many of the essential goals 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Charter.  Universal 
participation  in  the  Rome  Statute  continues  to  be  an 
objective that we must pursue with an encouragement 
to all Member States to consider ratifying the Statute. 
However, we must not forget that the values enshrined 
17-35155
27/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
in  the  Statute  are  already  universal  in  character,  and 
we — all Member States — can and should engage in 
furthering those values and promoting the goals of the 
fight against impunity.
At the same time, it is particularly important that 
the  international  community  increase  its  efforts  in 
upholding  the  concept  of  complementarity  and  work 
together to strengthen domestic systems, as the ICC is 
and should remain a court of last resort. Our objective 
is  to  see  stronger  capacities  at  the  national  level  to 
prosecute crimes and defend the interest of victims.
Our focus must remain on the victims of international 
crimes. Also for that reason, on 17 July — the date that 
was  proclaimed  by  the  Kampala  Review  Conference 
in  2010  as  the  Day  of  International  Criminal  Justice 
worldwide  —  Italy,  together  with  Denmark,  The 
Gambia and Liechtenstein, organized an event during 
which  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  highlighted  the 
crucial role it plays in providing redress and reparations, 
both  for  individual  victims  and  for  the  communities 
most  directly  affected  by  such  crimes.  And  the  order 
of  the  Court  of  17  August  on  reparations  concerning 
the destruction of cultural heritage in Timbuktu is an 
important confirmation of the continuing efforts in that 
direction, which we welcome.
Ms.  Sapag  Muñoz  de  la  Peña  (Chile)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  First  of  all,  we  express  our  appreciation  to 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
the  Honourable  Judge  Silvia  Alejandra  Fernández 
de  Gurmendi,  for  the  complete  report  that  she  has 
presented on the period from 1 August 2016 to 31 July 
2017  (see  A/72/349).  The  report  shows,  inter  alia,  the 
significant  increase  in  the  volume  of  work  that  the 
Court has experienced.
We would also like to congratulate Judge Fernández 
de Gurmendi for her outstanding work as President of 
the Court since March 2015. We greatly appreciate her 
efforts to increase the efficiency of the criminal process 
and  actively  promote  the  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  especially  under  complex  circumstances.  We 
see that the judicial and prosecutorial activities during 
the reporting period, both in preliminary examinations 
and in investigations and procedures, have been widely 
developed, thereby contributing to the fulfilment of the 
Court’s mandate.
The  International  Criminal  Court  has  become  a 
unique expression of our time. It marks a unique stage 
in the history of institutions dedicated to international 
criminal justice. From the point of view of the protection 
of  human  rights,  the  creation  of  the  Criminal  Court 
continues  to  be  a  decisive  pillar  in  the  fight  against 
impunity, and through it the States parties demonstrate 
their commitment to the international community with 
regard to compliance with its objectives.
Chile  has  actively  and  decisively  supported  the 
Court  since  the  beginning  of  the  process  that  led  to 
the adoption of the Rome Statute. Looking back at the 
progress  made  over  the  years,  we  are  also  aware  that 
there are various challenges facing the Court that require 
States to continue working with unwavering energy.
The International Criminal Court could not carry 
out  its  decisive  work  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
without  the  due  cooperation  of  States,  so  that  those 
responsible  for  crimes  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court are held accountable for their actions. We call on 
all States to cooperate fully with it.
The cooperation of States is the main tool available 
to  the  Court  for  the  execution  of  arrest  warrants, 
delivery of evidence and support for its investigations 
and procedures in general. The lack of cooperation by 
some  States  can  seriously  affect  its  judicial  functions 
and its ability to provide justice to victims. The Court 
must  have  the  means  and  the  human  and  material 
resources necessary for the fulfilment of its mandate, 
and  the  States  parties  must  responsibly  study  the 
budgetary  requirements,  supporting  the  work  of  the 
relevant  bodies  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties.  In 
that connection, Chile reiterates that when the Security 
Council  refers  a  case  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court, it must also take the steps necessary to ensure 
that it has the financial means to deal with that referral.
We are also convinced of the need for the Security 
Council  to  follow  up  on  the  cases  that  it  refers  and, 
in  relation  to  those  cases,  to  pay  special  attention  to 
situations that arise due to a lack of cooperation from 
States or to the difficulties that could arise.
Regarding the work of the Trust Fund for Victims, 
we  recognize  its  important  work,  which  has  allowed  
for assistance to more than 455,000 victims to date. We 
should not forget that support for victims is one of the 
fundamental reasons for acceding to the Rome Statute. 
We  will  not  rest  until  we  meet  our  goal  of  achieving 
universality  and  the  full  application  of  the  Rome 
Statute, and we call on States that are not yet parties to 
the Statute to ratify or accede to it.
28/30 
17-35155
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.36
Last  year,  we  learned  of  the  withdrawal  of  three 
States  from  the  Rome  Statute,  which  we  deplore.  We 
are  therefore  pleased  to  hear  that  two  of  them  have 
revoked  those  decisions.  We  urge  all  States  that  face 
difficulties  with  respect  to  the  application  of  certain 
aspects of the Rome Statute to consider increasing the 
effectiveness  of  their  provisions  and  to  seek  answers 
to  their  questions  within  the  framework  of  its  norms 
and principles.
We  reiterate  our  faithful  and  determined  support 
for  the  International  Criminal  Court  as  an  essential 
instrument 
the 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  international  crimes 
when  the  State  does  not  or  cannot  act  in  favour  of 
justice and support for victims.
impunity  and  prosecute 
to  fight 
Mr.  Arriola  Ramírez  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  The  Republic  of  Paraguay  wishes  to  pay 
tribute to Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi in her 
capacity  as  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  as  well  as  Mrs.  Fatou  Bensouda,  Prosecutor 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  all  other 
magistrates of this international tribunal. We welcome 
the annual report of the Court on its activities between 
2016 and 2017 (see A/72/349).
The Republic of Paraguay, as a State based on the 
rule  of  law,  recognizes  and  accepts  international  law, 
enshrining  general  principles  such  as  international 
solidarity  and  cooperation  and 
international 
protection of human rights. Likewise, we condemn wars 
of aggression, torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading 
treatment  or  punishment.  It  should  be  noted  that  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay  declares  genocide,  the  forced 
disappearance of persons, abduction and homicide for 
political reasons as imprescriptible.
the 
I have the honour to share with the Assembly that 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  true  to  its  commitment  to 
international  law,  is  celebrating  the  fact  that  the  just-
promulgated  law  on  national  implementation  of  the 
Rome  Statute  is  fully  in  force.  It  includes,  among 
other  elements  inherent  in  the  provisions  of  that 
instrument,  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
war crimes, in accordance with the Statute, as well as 
commensurate punishment.
In  addition  to  the  jurisdiction  exercised  by  the 
Court  over  the  aforementioned  crimes,  it  will  also 
be  exercised  by  national  jurisdictional  bodies  in 
accordance with domestic criminal legislation. In that 
way, the relationship between universal jurisdiction and 
national jurisdiction is established, with the limitations 
of  the  latter.  Similarly,  the  Kampala  amendments, 
which include the crime of aggression and broaden war 
crimes, are under legislative treatment in the National 
Congress.  Those  important  advances  reaffirm  and 
consolidate the commitment of the Republic of Paraguay 
to  promote  the  universality  and  full  application  of 
the  Rome  Statute  and  further  strengthen  our  ties  and 
cooperation with the International Criminal Court.
On  the  other  hand,  the  Republic  of  Paraguay 
urges the United Nations to continue strengthening its 
relations  with  the  Court,  particularly  with  regard  to 
the exchange of information, the provision of services 
and facilities, judicial assistance and the appearance of 
United Nations personnel before the Court to provide 
testimony and support for activities on the ground, as 
well  as  strengthening  cooperation  with  peacekeeping 
missions,  the  Security  Council  and  other  bodies  of 
the Organization.
Likewise, the Republic of Paraguay welcomes the 
work,  both  in  reparation  and  assistance,  of  the  Trust 
Fund  for  Victims,  particularly  in  the  provision  of 
physical and psychological rehabilitation services and 
material support to survivors of crimes defined in the 
Rome Statute. The Republic of Paraguay encourages the 
Fund to continue those tireless activities for the victims 
and invites other States and interested entities to make 
new contributions to extend and maintain the assistance 
programmes and to maintain and increase its financial 
reserves. That will complement the reparations granted 
by decision of the Court.
The Republic of Paraguay expresses its full support 
to the Court with regard to all forms of assistance it has 
recently provided, especially in relation to the promotion 
of the universality of the Rome Statute system and the 
adoption  of  national  legislation.  As  evidence  of  that 
support,  my  country’s  delegation  is  co-sponsoring 
resolution  A/72/L.3,  which  will  be  adopted  today. 
We also urge those States that have not yet done so to 
accede to the Rome Statute in its entirety, as we believe 
that the only way to ensure the functioning of the Court 
is  through  the  joint  efforts  of  its  States  parties  in  the 
collective fight against impunity for the perpetration of 
the most serious international crimes.
Finally, the Republic of Paraguay urges the Court 
to continue its hard work of exercising its jurisdiction 
over  persons,  as  a  permanent  international  judicial 
organ, for the commission of the most serious crimes of 
17-35155
29/30
A/72/PV.36 
30/10/2017
concern to the international community, as established 
in its Statute. We also encourage the magistrates of the 
Court to continue their work in the most objective and 
impartial way possible.
Ms.  Boucher  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Canada’s  continuing 
support for the International Criminal Court (ICC) and 
the essential role it is playing in ensuring accountability 
for  those  responsible  for  the  commission  of  the  most 
serious  international  crimes.  A  majority  of  Member 
States  are  already  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
ICC. However, we remain some distance from achieving 
universality  of  the  Statute.  Canada  calls  upon  those 
States that have not yet done so to consider acceding to 
the Rome Statute.
its  mandate  without 
It is well known that the Court cannot effectively 
accomplish 
the  necessary 
cooperation  from  States  parties  and  other  actors. 
Over  the  past  few  years,  we  have  witnessed  both 
accomplishments  and  challenges  in  the  sphere  of 
international cooperation. The historic guilty plea and 
conviction  of  Mr.  Al-Mahdi  for  war  crimes  related 
to  the  destruction  of  UNESCO-protected  shrines  in 
Timbuktu  would  not  have  been  possible  without  the 
assistance  of  the  Niger  and  Mali.  We  commend  their 
cooperation as a concrete example of their commitment 
to justice.
With the support of States parties, the International 
Criminal  Court  has  also  made  landmark  judgments 
condemning  the  recruitment  of  child  soldiers  and 
sexual  and  gender-based  crimes.  Despite 
such 
accomplishments, Canada remains troubled by instances 
of non-cooperation, particularly by State parties to the 
Rome Statute. The fact that arrest warrants issued years 
ago — including those issued pursuant to referral to the 
Court  by  the  Security  Council  —  remain  unexecuted 
should  be  concerning  to  all  of  us  as  members  of  the 
international community. Canada encourages all States 
to abide by their international commitments.
(spoke in English)
Canada welcomes The Gambia’s decision to remain 
a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We  also  welcome  South 
Africa’s  reversal  of  its  withdrawal  and  hope  to  see  it 
remain  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  However,  we 
continue to be concerned by the withdrawal of Burundi 
from the Court, and we urge Burundi to reconsider.
At the same time, Canada is encouraged by African 
voices  that  have  spoken  out  in  support  of  the  Court 
over the past year, including Botswana, Sierra Leone, 
Nigeria,  Tanzania,  Ghana,  Malawi  and  Senegal.  All 
victims,  including  African  victims,  have  a  right  to 
justice.  The  ongoing  contributions  of  African  States 
in support of the Court are invaluable to making that 
justice  a  reality.  African  States  played  an  important 
role in both the establishment and development of the 
Court. Today, their steadfast support is more important 
than ever in the fight against impunity.
As Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in Rome in 
1998, the establishment of the Court was a gift of hope 
to future generations and that it was a giant step forward 
in  the  march  towards  universal  human  rights  and  the 
rule of law. Building on the legacy of Nuremberg, and 
following the lead of the ad hoc tribunals for Rwanda 
and the former Yugoslavia, the ICC is the culmination 
of 
to 
fighting  impunity  and  giving  voice  to  the  victims  of 
atrocity crimes.
international  community’s  dedication 
the 
As a recent example of Canada’s ongoing support 
for the ICC, I am proud to note that we have nominated 
an  exceptionally  qualified  candidate,  Ms.  Kimberly 
Prost,  for  election  as  a  Judge  of  the  Court.  That 
nomination  resonates  with  the  priority  that  Canada 
places on gender equality and women leadership.
Looking  forward,  Canada  anticipates  that  the 
upcoming sixteenth Assembly of States Parties will be 
a fruitful meeting that allows us to move forward with 
strengthening the Court’s role. We hope for productive 
discussions  on  activating  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
over  the  crime  of  aggression,  and  on  budgetary  and 
governance  issues,  while  avoiding  politicization  and 
micromanagement. We must continue to constructively 
work 
to  achieve  our  common  goal  of 
maintaining  and  strengthening  the  framework  of  a 
permanent, independent judicial institution that has the 
respect and confidence of the international community.
together 
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
30/30 
17-35155
