United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
38th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 1 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Llorentty Solíz 
(Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 42
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/72/94)
Draft resolution (A/72/L.2)
Mr.  Biang  (Gabon):  Before  I  begin  my  formal 
statement,  allow  me  to  express  my  firm  and  strong 
condemnation  of  the  tragic  attacks  that  hit  New  York 
City yesterday. I present my deepest condolences to the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  and  my 
solidarity to the victims’ families.
I have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf 
of the Group of African States on the agenda item on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba.
Allow me also to associate my statement with that 
to  be  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Ecuador  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
This is a matter of great importance to the Group of 
African States, and indeed to Africa in general. At the 
twenty-eighth ordinary session of the Assembly of the 
African Union, held in January 2017, the African Heads 
of  State  and  Government  deliberated  on  this  matter. 
Their call was loud and clear for the lifting of the long-
standing  unjust  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade of Cuba.
It has now been 55 years since the embargo against 
Cuba  was  unilaterally  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of America. Moreover, for more than two decades the 
will  of  the  international  community,  as  expressed  in 
the General Assembly, has overwhelmingly urged and 
appealed  for  the  immediate  end  of  the  long-standing 
economic  embargo  against  Cuba.  It  is  particularly 
regrettable  that  after  the  improvement  in  the  bilateral 
relations  between  the  United  States  and  Cuba  that 
was  achieved  during 
the  previous  United  States 
Administration, the blockade against Cuba has recently 
been strengthened. That is clearly a step backwards in 
the bilateral relations between the two countries, which 
should be urgently addressed.
We  are  particularly  concerned  that  the  embargo 
continues  to  causes  great  economic  hardship  for 
the  people  of  Cuba,  particularly  the  poor  and  most 
vulnerable.  Moreover,  it  most  certainly  makes  the 
achievement  of  sustainable  development  even  more 
elusive. Therefore, it undermines our collective efforts 
to  universally  push  towards  implementing  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and ensuring that 
no  one  is  left  behind.  The  international  community 
needs to stand together in bringing the blockade to an 
end. It is an infringement on the Cuban people’s right 
to development.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-35800 (E)
*1735800*
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
The  African  Group  calls  for  the  blockade  against 
Cuba to be unequivocally lifted, not only because it is 
right to do so, but also because of Cuba’s many positive 
contributions  over  the  past  decades  as  a  responsible 
member of the international community. In fact, Cuba 
has  a  proud  history  in  Africa,  both  in  its  support  for 
Africa’s  struggle  for  liberation  and,  more  recently,  in 
its  contributions  to  alleviating  the  effects  of  some  of 
the  major  health  crises  that  the  continent  has  faced 
in  recent  years.  The  people  of  Africa  will  continue 
to  remember  those  contributions,  and  the  people  of 
Cuba  should  continue  to  be  proud  of  their  nation’s 
important contributions as a responsible member of the 
international community.
Accordingly, the Group of African States reaffirms 
its  full  support  for  draft  resolution  A/72/L.2,  on  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. We think that a diplomatic and 
political solution can be found to the matter, and we are 
of the firm belief that that it will be beneficial to both 
the United States of America and Cuba, in addition to 
other  countries.  The  Group  of  African  States  further 
reiterates  the  call  on  the  Government  of  the  United 
States to lift the long-standing embargo against Cuba.
Mr.  Morejón  Pazmiño  (Ecuador)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish): I have the immense pleasure of welcoming the 
Foreign Minister of Cuba and his delegation, who are 
present with us today. They are always very welcome.
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China on agenda item 42, “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
I thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report  on  the  agenda  item  that  we  are  discussing 
(A/72/94).  The  Group  once  again  deplores  the  fact 
that the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed by the United States 55 years ago against our 
brotherly Republic of Cuba remains in full application 
and  continues  to  be  strengthened.  The  Group  recalls 
the positive steps taken by the previous Administration 
of  the  United  States  in  2015  and  2016,  which,  though 
still  inadequate  to  effectively  end  the  impact  of  the 
embargo,  were  headed  in  the  right  direction.  The 
Group  also  deplores  the  new  policy  established  by 
the  current  President  of  the  United  States,  which  is 
aimed at strengthening the embargo against Cuba. The 
Group  believes  that  such  a  policy  is  a  setback  in  the 
process of achieving normalized relations between the 
two countries.
The Group of 77 and China reiterates its commitment 
to  the  purposes,  principles  and  spirit  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the  principles  of 
sovereign  equality  of  States,  non-intervention  and 
non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs,  as  well  as 
the freedom of international trade and navigation. We 
believe  that  it  is  the  duty  and  responsibility  of  every 
Member State to strictly comply with those principles. 
We are also of the view that any policy or action that 
disregards those principles — in this case, the unilateral 
economic sanctions against Cuba — should be seriously 
considered for immediate repeal.
Given that the embargo by the United States against 
Cuba has continued for more than 50 years, the Group 
of  77  and  China  expresses  deep  concern  about  the 
prolonged negative effects that the economic sanctions 
and travel restrictions have had on Cuba and its people. 
From April 2016 to June of this year, the impact of the 
United States embargo on Cuba’s foreign trade amounts 
to more than $4 billion. Limited foreign investment and 
difficult access to development credits translate directly 
into economic hardship and humanitarian impacts for 
the people of Cuba.
The  country’s  socioeconomic  reforms  have  also 
been  hampered  by  the  cruel  embargo.  The  Group 
of  77  and  China  fears  that  if  the  economic  sanctions 
continue,  Cuba’s  potential  for  development  in  both 
the economic and human development spheres will be 
unjustly undermined. It will be impossible for Cuba to 
successfully  embark  on  the  path  towards  sustainable 
development,  as  envisaged  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, for which all Member States 
have pledged their support.
its 
through 
Over  many  decades,  Cuba  has  extensively 
and  continuously  contributed  to  the  international 
community,  particularly 
remarkable 
supply  of  medical  assistance  to  countries  in  need. 
Cuba’s emergency assistance to African countries that 
were  affected  by  the  Ebola  virus  in  West  Africa  is  a 
great  example  of  its  solidarity  with  the  international 
community.  Therefore,  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
commends  Cuba’s  contributions 
to  humanitarian 
assistance and would like to express the hope that with 
the  permanent  lifting  of  the  embargo  by  the  United 
States,  Cuba  will  be  granted  the  opportunity  that  it 
has  long  deserved  to  fully  cooperate  with  the  global 
2/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
community and international organizations with respect 
to, inter alia, health, the environment and agriculture.
To  conclude,  the  Group  of  and  China  would  like 
to  reiterate  its  strong  support  for  the  implementation 
of the recommendations of resolution 71/5. We would 
like to reiterate our call for the ending of the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  The  urgency 
and necessity of our call is further highlighted by the 
ongoing global collective endeavour to implement the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Therefore, 
the Group of 77 and China would like to appeal to the 
international  community  to  further  step  up  its  efforts 
in  support  of  the  lifting  of  the  embargo,  not  only  for 
Cuba’s prospects, but also for the full achievement of 
economic  and  social  development  of  all  members  of 
the  entire  global  community  as  a  whole.  That  is  the 
declaration of the Group of 77 and China.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would  like  to  propose  that  the  list  of  speakers  on  the 
current topic be closed, in view of the large number of 
delegations inscribed on the list.
It was so decided.
Mr. Gafoor (Singapore): Before I make my formal 
statement, I wish to express, on behalf of my delegation, 
our condolences to the Government and the people of the 
United States of America for the loss of lives sustained 
as a result of the terrible terrorist attack in New York 
yesterday, which we condemn in unequivocal terms.
I also welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Cuba and his delegation to New York. It is a pleasure to 
see him again in our midst.
I have the honour to address the General Assembly, 
on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  to  express  our 
support for the draft resolution on ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against the Republic of Cuba 
(A/72/L.2).  The  General  Assembly  has  consistently 
adopted this annual text by an overwhelming majority 
since 
in  1992.  ASEAN 
member  States  have  voted  unanimously  in  favour  of 
the  resolution  for  the  past  16  years,  and  this  marks 
the  third  year  that  ASEAN  has  made  a  statement 
in  the  Assembly  calling  for  the  unilateral  embargo 
against Cuba to be lifted as soon as possible. It is our 
firm  belief  that  differences  between  States  should 
it  was  first 
introduced 
be  resolved  through  engagement  and  inclusion,  not 
confrontation and isolation. That would be in concord 
with the fundamental principles of sovereign equality, 
non-interference and non-intervention, as enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations.
ASEAN  welcomes  the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations between Cuba and the United States in 2015. 
That was an important step towards the normalization 
of bilateral relations and remains key to building better 
regional  relations  in  the  Americas.  A  more  important 
step will be for the United States to end its economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  on  Cuba.  That 
would  significantly  improve  the  quality  of  life  and 
living standards of the Cuban people and contribute to 
the economic and social development of Cuba.
Bringing an end to the embargo would also advance 
the Assembly’s efforts towards achieving the inclusive 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
ASEAN encourages the United States and Cuba in 
their efforts to chart a new way forward. We recognize 
that much remains to be done.  We encourage the United 
States and Cuba to remain committed to an open and 
constructive dialogue, underpinned by mutual respect. 
ASEAN  joins  the  other  members  of  the  Assembly  in 
reiterating our support for the lifting of the unilateral 
embargo against Cuba as soon as possible.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  I  wish  to  begin  my  statement  by  greeting 
Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  and  his  delegation  and  to 
welcome them to this House of ours.
  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States 
(CELAC).
CELAC  once  again  welcomes  the  steps  taken  in 
2015 and 2016 by Cuba and the United States of America 
to  commence  the  normalization  of  their  diplomatic 
relations. That marked the beginning of a new chapter 
in  the  history  of  peace  and  coexistence  among  the 
American nations. However, we regret that the blockade 
remains a reality for the Cuban people. It is undeniable 
that it is the main obstacle to the normal development 
of Cuba. The report of the Secretary-General (A/72/94) 
confirms  the  cost  of  this  policy  for  the  country,  as  it 
causes considerable and unjustifiable harm to the well-
being of the Cuban people and is contrary to the wishes 
for peace of the Latin American peoples, as enshrined 
17-35800
3/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
in the Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean 
as a Zone of Peace.
We also deplore the new policy announced by the 
current  United  States  Administration  that  is  intended 
to strengthen the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade  against  Cuba.  It  is  a  setback  in  the  process 
of normalization of bilateral relations between the two 
countries.  The  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade  imposed  on  Cuba  is  contrary  to  the  letter, 
spirit,  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and international law.
CELAC 
its 
firm 
reiterates 
rejection  of 
the 
application  of  laws  and  measures  that  are  contrary 
to  international  law,  such  as  the  Helms-Burton  Act, 
including those with extraterritorial effects, as well as 
of  the  increasing  harassment  of  Cuba’s  international 
financial transactions, in disregard of the political will 
of the international community. We therefore urge the 
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  to  stop 
implementing  them.  The  United  States  Congress  has 
the  authority  to  end  the  Cuban  embargo  completely. 
Moreover,  it  has  has  been  demonstrated  that  the 
President of the United States, if he so wishes, may use 
his broad executive powers to substantially amend the 
application of the blockade.
CELAC  reiterates  its  special  declaration  on  the 
need  to  put  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  of  the  United  States  against 
Cuba — adopted at the fifth Summit of the Community 
of Latin American and Caribbean States, held in Punta 
Cana, Dominican Republic, on 25 January 2017 — by 
which the Government of the United States of America 
was  requested  to  fulfil  the  successive  resolutions 
adopted by the General Assembly and, in response to 
the repeated calls from the international community, to 
put an end to the economic, commercial and financial 
blockade it maintains against Cuba.
We believe that the return to the Republic of Cuba 
of  the  land  occupied  by  the  United  States  naval  base 
in  Guantanamo,  which  has  been  repeatedly  requested 
by  the  Cuban  people  and  Government,  should  be  an 
important element in the process of the normalization 
of relations between the two countries, by means of a 
bilateral dialogue that adheres to international law.
The Charter of the United Nations enshrines laws, 
obligations  and  principles  that  have  become  part  of 
the  legal  heritage,  not  just  of  international  law  but 
of  humankind.  It  should  not  be  violated  or  abused 
by  any  Member  State.  Member  States  should  adjust 
their  national  and  international  actions  to  the  rights, 
obligations and principles enshrined in the Charter.
In  2015  and  2016,  resolutions  70/5  and  71/5,  on 
this item, were both adopted with 191 votes in favour, 
confirming the near universality of this cause.
For  all  those  reasons,  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  will  once  again 
decisively  support  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba” (A/72/L.2). We emphasize the 
inconsistency of the application of coercitive unilateral 
measures that are not supported by international law or 
by the letter, the spirit and the purposes and principles 
of the Charter.
We  reiterate  our  call  on  the  United  States  to 
accept the call of the countries of Latin America and 
the Caribbean, of every region of the world and of its 
own people to put an end once and for all to the unjust 
embargo against the Republic of Cuba.
Ms. King (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): First, 
allow me, on behalf of my delegation, to join others in 
condemning the terrible terrorist act that took place in 
lower  Manhattan  yesterday.  Our  condolences  go  out 
to  the  families  who  lost  loved  ones,  and  we  stand  in 
solidarity with the United States of America, Argentina, 
Belgium  and  the  entire  international  community  as 
together we continue to fight this scourge.
I have the honour to address the General Assembly 
on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  in  the  presence  of  the 
honourable Foreign Minister of Cuba.
CARICOM aligns itself with the statements made 
earlier by the representatives of Ecuador, on behalf of 
the Group of 77 and China, and of Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines, on behalf of the Community of Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  as  well  as  that  to  be 
delivered on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Four States members of CARICOM — Barbados, 
Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago — established 
diplomatic  relations  with  Cuba  on  8  December  1972 
in an independent, sovereign act in the face of strong 
opposition from their traditional ally, the United States 
of  America.  Jamaica  and  Trinidad  and  Tobago  had 
become independent nation States in 1962, and Barbados 
and  Guyana  in  1966.  As  the  other  eight  anglophone 
4/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
Caribbean countries acceded to independence, they all 
followed the original four in establishing and building 
excellent  relations  with  Cuba:  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Bahamas,  Belize,  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica, 
Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia and Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines. Suriname and Haiti, the two 
non-anglophone Caribbean nations with membership in 
CARICOM, had established diplomatic relations prior 
to their membership in this regional body.
a  key  component  of  his  policy  towards  Cuba.  That 
was  reaffirmed  in  his  address  to  the  United  Nations 
in  September,  during  the  general  debate  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  (see 
A/72/PV.3).  With  its  policy  against  Cuba,  the  new 
Administration will reverse the progress achieved since 
the former President announced, on 17 December 2014, 
the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  and  the 
beginning of a process to normalize bilateral ties.
The States members of CARICOM have maintained 
close  relations  with  Cuba  throughout  the  years  of 
their  independence,  and  that  relationship  has  been 
strengthened  through  a  wide  range  of  programmes  of 
cooperation  in  areas  that  include  trade,  health  care, 
infrastructure  and  human  resource  development.  In 
2015,  the  international  community  adopted  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  sets 
Goals that guide the creation of the future that we want 
and which aims at leaving no one behind. Our future 
regional development is in many ways reliant upon our 
collective  advancement  and  progress.  The  blockade 
works  contrarily  to  those  aspirations  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Striving  for  peace  and  the  right  to  development 
have been the deepest concerns of each member of our 
Caribbean Community since gaining independence. In 
that context, we view the embargo not just as a punitive 
act against Cuba, but as an impediment to our shared 
regional development.
The  General  Assembly  has  adopted  a  resolution 
on  this  item  each  year  since  1992,  condemning  the 
ongoing impact of the embargo and declaring it to be 
in  violation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international law. The Assembly’s seventy-first session 
marked  a  milestone,  when  not  a  single  Member  State 
voted  against  resolution  71/5,  calling  for  a  definite 
end to the unilateral decision that has proved to be an 
untenable, unnecessary and undesirable fissure in our 
hemispheric  family.  Opposition  to  the  policy  is  now 
almost universal. Citizens across the United States are 
joining  the  international  community  by  increasingly 
voicing their disapproval and calling for the lifting of 
the unilateral sanctions. Today, 73 per cent of Americans 
and 63 per cent of Cubans living in the United States 
support the lifting of the blockade.
Yet, on 16 June the current President of the United 
States  announced  the  strengthening  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  against  Cuba  as 
In  the  light  of  that  disappointing  reversal,  the 
Caribbean  Community  wishes  to  reiterate  to  the 
General Assembly, as we did during the general debate 
in  September  (see  A/72/PV.23),  our  unequivocal 
commitment  and  unceasing  call  for  an  end  to  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.  We  remain  fully  committed  to  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly to the principles of the sovereign equality 
of States, non-intervention and non-interference in their 
internal affairs and freedom of trade and navigation.
CARICOM  enjoys  friendly  relations  with  both 
Cuba and the United States. The two neighbours — a 
mere 90 miles apart — have produced great scholars, 
scientists  and  great  global  leaders.  The  two  countries 
possess  proud  and  noble  histories  and  are  populated 
by  friendly,  open  and  loving  peoples.  The  progress 
achieved  in  2015  and  2016  has  shown  that  Cuba  and 
the  United  States  can  live  together,  respecting  their 
differences, and that they are able to cooperate for the 
benefit of the two countries and peoples.
Therefore, CARICOM remains optimistic that there 
will be a diplomatic solution to the long-standing issue, 
which is now a mere relic of the Cold War. To that end, 
CARICOM consistently supports subregional, regional 
and  international  efforts  to  promote  constructive 
dialogue  to  bring  about  the  cessation,  sooner  rather 
than later, of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  against  Cuba.  It  is  within  that  context  that 
the  14  States  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
unstintingly support draft resolution A/72/L.2, on the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba.
Mr.  Tanoh-Boutchoue  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  have  the  honour  to  make  a  statement  on 
behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC).  But  first  let  me  express 
the solidarity and compassion of the member States of 
17-35800
5/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
OIC to the United States of America in the wake of the 
terrorist attacks yesterday here in New York.
resulted in 191 votes in favour and 2 abstentions (see 
A/71/PV.32).
I warmly welcome Mr. Bruno Eduardo Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of 
Cuba, who is present here today.
A  year  ago,  almost  to  the  day,  the  United  States 
Administration,  through  the  voice  of  its  Permanent 
Representative  to  the  United  Nations,  chose,  for  the 
first  time  since  1992,  to  abstain  in  the  voting  during 
the consideration of the resolution entitled “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba”  (see  A/71/PV.32).  That  decision  of  the 
Permanent  Representative  gave  rise  to  hope  in  the 
international community in general and in the member 
States of OIC in particular, hope based on the positive 
evolution  of  relations  between  the  United  States 
and  Cuba  initiated  by  the  American  President  at  the 
time.  It  was  illustrated,  inter  alia,  by  the  reopening 
of  the  respective  embassies  of  the  two  countries,  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  and  in  Havana,  the  restoration  of 
commercial  flights  between  the  two  States  and  the 
visit  of  the  former  American  President  to  Cuba  in 
March 2016.
Despite  the  positive  development  initiated  by 
the  American  presidency  with  a  view  to  gradually 
normalizing  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba,  the  American  economic  embargo  —  which 
constitutes  the  central  pillar  of  sanctions  against 
Cuba — remains. That situation is a source of serious 
concern, not just for Cuba, but also for a large part of 
the  international  community,  including  the  member 
States  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference. 
The  concern  of  the  OIC  is  justified  in  view  of  the 
decision  taken  last  June  by  the  new  United  States 
Administration  to  cancel,  with  immediate  effect,  the 
agreement between Washington and Havana under the 
previous American Administration.
Through  this  statement,  the  OIC  member  States 
reaffirm their opposition to the economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
against Cuba more than 50 years ago, which, it would 
seem, did not have the desired effect. On the contrary, it 
created international solidarity around Cuba, which has 
been demonstrated in recent years by massive votes to 
lift the embargo by almost every State Member of our 
Organization. The latest vote in the Assembly, in 2016, 
In  a  world  firmly  focused  on  globalization  and 
the  opening  of  markets  to  international  trade,  States 
members  of  the  OIC,  while  concerned  about  the 
statements  of  the  new  Administration  of  the  United 
States of America that are bringing recent developments 
into  question,  underscore  that  the  commercial  and 
financial embargo imposed on Cuba remains one of the 
main obstacles to the economic and social development 
of that country.
When,  at  the  initiative  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  international  community  has  embarked  on  a  new 
development programme with a view to 2030, the OIC 
member States consider that the time has come to lift 
the embargo against Cuba so as to enable that country 
and its people to benefit fully from the implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  order  to 
ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  In  that  perspective, 
the  OIC  member  States  very  firmly  support  draft 
resolution  A/72/L.2,  entitled  “Necessity  of  lifting  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States against Cuba”, and call on States 
Members of the United Nations to vote overwhelmingly 
in favour of it, as they did last year.
Mr.  Ramírez  Carreño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): It is an honour for the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to speak on behalf of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
First, we would like to pay our respects and offer 
a  very  warm  welcome  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic  of  Cuba.  We  would  also  like  to  express  our 
gratitude  for  the  report  by  the  Secretary-General  on 
this very important issue (A/72/94).
Over the past 26 years, the General Assembly has 
every  year  expressed  its  resounding  support  for  and 
solidarity with the people and the Government of Cuba 
through  its  decisive  support  for  the  resolution  calling 
for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States of America against that sovereign country. Last 
year, 191 States Members of the Organization voted in 
favour of the resolution (resolution 71/5).
The  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  takes 
this  opportunity  to  reiterate  its  full  opposition  to 
the  enactment  and  imposition  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures, given their extraterritorial implications and 
6/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
illegal nature. Likewise, the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries  has  on  several  occasions  repeated  its  call 
on  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of  America 
to  put  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  against  Cuba  more  than 
55  years  ago,  which  is  unilateral  and  illegal.  The 
embargo  —  apart  from  violating  international  law, 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  norms 
and  principles  that  govern  peaceful  relations  among 
States  —  is  also  a  violation  of  Cuba’s  right  to  fully 
interact with the international community.
The  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  has 
historically  taken  a  position  of  principle  in  rejecting 
unilateral  coercive  measures,  particularly  those  used 
as  instruments  of  political  or  economic  and  financial 
pressure against States, particularly against developing 
countries.  Those  positions  were  reaffirmed  recently, 
when on 20 September, at the meeting of the Ministers 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Movement  held  under  the 
theme “Promulgation and implementation of unilateral 
coercive measures, in violation of international law and 
the  human  rights  of  the  peoples  subjected  to  them”, 
adopted the Political Declaration of New York.
The  embargo  against  Cuba  is  a  perfect  example 
of  the  adverse  effects  of  unilateral  coercive  measures 
affecting  the  welfare  of  peoples,  impeding  the  full 
enjoyment  of  their  human  rights.  The  direct  and 
indirect  harm  inflicted  by  this  undeserved  embargo 
against Cuba is vast. It affects all crucial sectors of the 
Cuban economy, including public health, nutrition and 
agriculture, as well as banking, trade, investment and 
tourism. It also denies Cuba access to markets, aid from 
international  financial  institutions  and  technology 
transfers, and it creates obstacles to the socioeconomic 
development  of  the  country.  Further,  the  embargo  is 
the  main  obstacle  to  wider  access  to  the  Internet,  the 
exchange  of  ideas  and  the  development  of  cultural, 
sports and scientific relations.
prices, over the years, the blockade has caused damages 
of more than $130 billion.
The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries believes 
the  establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
Cuba and the United States of America to be a positive 
first  step  in  the  process  towards  the  normalization  of 
bilateral  relations.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  appropriate 
to  point  out  that  the  implementation  of  the  blockade 
against Cuba has not changed. Even some progress in 
the normalization of bilateral relations between the two 
countries is now threatened, as is demonstrated by the 
new  policies  established  in  June  2017  by  the  current 
President  of  the  United  States  of  America,  acting  to 
strengthen the embargo against Cuba.
Moreover,  although  regulations  were  issued  on 
15 January 2015 by the Department of Commerce and 
the Treasury that amounted to steps in the right direction 
in areas such as travel to Cuba, telecommunications and 
remittances, those have had a limited scope and modified 
only some aspects related to the implementation of the 
blockade. Despite the historic decision of former United 
States  President  Barack  Obama  to  notify  the  United 
States  Congress  of  his  decision  to  remove  Cuba  from 
the  so-called  list  of  States  sponsoring  international 
terrorism  —  a  unilateral  and  illegal  list  that  should 
never have included Cuba — we have seen no greater 
flexibility  regarding  all  of  the  complexities  of  the 
prohibitions  and  restrictions  that  stem  from  the  laws 
and regulations of the blockade against Cuba.
In the light of all this, the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries reaffirms its call for an end to the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba, as reiterated by 
the Heads of State and Government of the Movement 
during  the  seventeenth  summit,  held  on  Venezuela’s 
Margarita Island, in September 2016.
including 
the  Goals  established 
The  continuation  of  the  embargo  is  completely 
unjustifiable and is inappropriate for our times. It also 
runs  counter  to  Cuba’s  efforts  to  attain  sustainable 
development, 
in 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  The 
economic hardship affecting the Cuban people caused 
by  the  application  of  the  economic,  financial  and 
commercial blockade imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba amounts to $822 billion, taking 
into account the depreciation of the dollar with respect 
to the gold price in the international market. At current 
fact 
The 
that  191  States  Members  of 
the 
Organization  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  71/5  last 
year is an expression of unanimity in the international 
community,  demanding  an  end  to  the  55-year-long 
embargo  and  full  adherence  to  the  principles  and 
purposes  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and to the norms of international law, including 
the  principles  of  mutual  respect  and  non-interference 
in the internal affairs of States. At present, more than 
190  nations  are  economically  and  politically  involved 
with Cuba, while the United States of America remains 
17-35800
7/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
alone  in  implementing  its  policy  of  unjustified  and 
illegal economic sanctions.
unequivocal decision to build socialism, a new society 
according to their own interests and characteristics.
Consequently, the States members of the Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  once  again  urge 
the 
Government of the United States of America to yield to 
the overwhelming will of the international community 
and  rectify  its  failed  policies  in  full  compliance  with 
all the pertinent resolutions of this General Assembly. 
That requires the immediate and full end of the embargo 
imposed on Cuba.
The  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  while 
reiterating its commitment to the promotion, preservation 
and  strengthening  of  multilateralism,  reaffirms  that 
full  respect  for  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is  an  essential  element 
for the effective maintenance of international peace and 
security. That is why the international community must 
continue  working  together  to  reverse  and  eliminate 
unilateral coercive measures, including the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba,  given,  inter 
alia, its illegal character.
I now wish to make the following statement in my 
national capacity.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reiterates 
its  unequivocal  support  for  the  principles  of  State 
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of  any  country.  For  us,  respect  for  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  international  law  is  an  obligation 
we have assumed within the Organization, and we can 
entertain no double standards or biased interpretations.
The  blockade  against  the  sister  Republic  of  Cuba 
and its people is not only illegal and in violation of the 
fundamental principles of the United Nations, but also 
constitutes  a  criminal  act  of  continued  aggression  by 
the strongest Power on the planet against another State. 
This savage and disproportionate act in contemporary 
history has gone on now for 55 years as the most abject 
expression of contempt against the fundamental rights 
of an entire people — the Cuban people.
The blockade against Cuba is as illegal as it is futile 
in its ridiculous desire to shake the unwavering decision 
of the Cuban people to build their own destiny and refuse 
to be a colony or a country under any foreign Power. It 
fails to recognize the deeply patriotic and revolutionary 
character  of  the  people  of  Martí  and  Fidel  and  their 
Amid the hostility of the United States and all kinds 
of  difficulties  and  hardships  caused  by  the  criminal 
blockade,  Cuba  has  managed  to  stand  for  more  than 
five  decades  as  a  moral  and  political  reference  point 
for the world. Although it has few resources, that sister 
nation  has  always  offered  solidarity  and  assistance 
to  all  peoples,  always  extending  its  hand  and  support 
without  conditions  to  countries  that  need  it  to  fight 
poverty  or  that  need  humanitarian  assistance  because 
of  natural  disasters  and  epidemic  outbreaks  such  as 
Ebola and cholera.
On  the  other  hand,  the  noble  Cuban  people  have 
played  a  fundamental  role  fighting  colonialism  and 
apartheid for the liberation of peoples. The peoples of 
Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean can bear 
witness to that solidarity and commitment to the cause 
of mankind. That is why we will vote overwhelmingly 
in favour of draft resolution A/72/L.2, condemning the 
blockade against Cuba.
Venezuela once again calls on the Government of 
the United States to put an immediate end to the policy 
of economic, commercial and financial blockade against 
Cuba.  Likewise,  we  categorically  reject  the  recent 
actions  of  the  United  States  Administration  that  seek 
to reverse the process of normalizing relations between 
the two countries that began a few years ago. That is the 
reaffirmation  of  interventionist  policy  and  American 
interference  in  our  region,  which  has  a  long  and  sad 
history  of  coups  d’état,  invasions  and  destabilization. 
It  is  a  policy  of  walls,  sanctions  and  aggression  that 
threatens the peace and security of our region.
Our country has also been attacked by the United 
States.  It  imposes  sanctions  on  us  and  destabilizes 
us.  However,  our  people  will  be  able  to  defend  their 
sovereignty and revolution. We want Cuba to know that 
Venezuela and our people stand with it. We shall honour 
our friendship and solidarity. The United States hopes 
to  undermine  our  loyalty  to  Chávez  and  admiration 
for  Fidel,  and  our  conviction  regarding  socialism.  It 
wants to bend the will of our people, and that explains 
the  blockade,  the  sanctions,  the  lies  and  all  kinds  of 
attacks.  The  United  States  is  mistaken  —  we  are  the 
sons of Bolívar and Martí, and we will win.
Mrs. Haley (United States of America): I want to 
start  by  expressing  our  condolences  to  our  brothers 
and  sisters  in  Argentina  and  Belgium,  whose  citizens 
8/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
numbered  among  the  victims  in  the  terrorist  attack 
in  New  York  City.  While  our  hearts  are  broken,  our 
resolve is strong. They hit our city, where we all come 
together and work together, but we always have to be 
strong enough to let them know terrorism will not win. 
If  we  stand  together,  we  will  once  and  for  all  defeat 
the  evil.  We  thank  everyone  for  the  condolences, 
support  and  good  wishes  sent  our  way,  which  we 
certainly appreciate.
For more than 55 years, the Cuban regime has used 
this debate in the General Assembly as a shiny object to 
distract the world’s attention from the destruction it has 
inflicted on its own people and on others in the western 
hemisphere.  Even  during  the  Cuban  missile  crisis, 
when the Castro dictatorship allowed the Soviet Union 
to secretly install nuclear missiles in Cuba, the Cuban 
regime and its Soviet allies claimed that the real threat 
to peace was not the missiles aimed at America. They 
said that the real threat was the United States’ discovery 
of those missiles. At the time, Adlai Stevenson, United 
States Ambassador to the United Nations, identified the 
Cuban regime’s habit of pointing fingers anywhere but 
at itself. He said:
“This is the first time... I have ever heard it said that 
the crime is not the burglar but the discovery of the 
burglar,  and  that  the  threat  is  not  the  clandestine 
missiles in Cuba but their discovery and the limited 
measures  taken  to  quarantine  further  infection.” 
(S/PV.1025, para. 7)
Today,  the  crime  is  the  Cuban  Government’s 
continued repression of its people and failure to meet 
even  the  minimum  requirements  of  a  free  and  just 
society. Our response has been to stand with the Cuban 
people  and  their  right  to  determine  their  own  future. 
For  that,  each  year  the  Assembly’s  time  is  wasted  in 
considering  this  resolution,  and  the  United  States  is 
subjected to all manner of ridiculous claims — anything 
to  deflect  attention  from  the  regime  that  is  actually 
responsible for the suffering of the Cuban people. But 
the  United  States  will  not  be  distracted.  We  will  not 
lose sight of what stands between the Cuban people and 
the  free  and  democratic  future  that  is  their  right.  For 
that reason, and for the twenty-fifth time in 26 years, 
the United States will vote against the draft resolution 
under this item.
One  year  ago,  the  United  States  abstained  in  the 
voting on resolution 71/5, under this item. The reason 
given was that the continuation of the embargo was not 
isolating  Cuba  but  was,  in  fact,  isolating  the  United 
States. It is true that we had been left nearly alone in 
opposition to this annual resolution. No doubt there will 
be some here who do not understand how we can take 
such  opposite  positions,  separated  by  just  12  months. 
They will wonder how we could passively accept this 
resolution last year and energetically oppose it this year.
To those who are confused as to where the United 
States  stands,  let  me  be  clear.  As  is  their  right  under 
our  Constitution,  the  American  people  have  spoken. 
They have chosen a new President, and he has chosen 
a  new  Ambassador  to  the  United  Nations.  As  long 
as  the  Cuban  people  continue  to  be  deprived  of  their 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  and  as  long 
as the proceeds from trade with Cuba go to prop up the 
dictatorial regime responsible for denying those rights, 
the United States does not fear isolation in this Hall or 
anywhere else.
Our  principles  are  not  up  for  a  vote.  They  are 
enshrined in our Constitution. They also happen to be 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. As long 
as we are Members of the United Nations, we will stand 
for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms 
that  the  Member  States  in  this  body  have  pledged  to 
protect, even if we have to stand alone.
The draft resolution before us (A/72/L.2) aims to end 
the United States economic, commercial, and financial 
embargo against Cuba. But let us be honest about what 
we  really  see  going  on  here.  The  Assembly  does  not 
have  the  power  to  end  the  United  States  embargo.  It 
is  based  in  United  States  law,  which  only  the  United 
States  Congress  can  change.  No,  what  the  General 
Assembly is doing today — what it does every year at 
this  time —  is  political  theatre.  The  Cuban  regime  is 
sending the warped message to the world that the sad 
state  of  its  economy,  the  oppression  of  its  people  and 
the export of its destructive ideology are not its fault. In 
the spirit of sending messages, I would like to direct the 
rest of my comments towards the Cuban people.
The American people strongly support their dreams 
to live in a country where they can speak freely, have 
uncensored  access  to  the  Internet,  provide  for  their 
families and determine their leadership. We know that 
many of them have been made hopeful by the opening 
of diplomatic relations between the United States and 
Cuba. That status is not changing. Our friendship and 
goodwill  towards  the  Cuban  people  remain  as  strong 
as ever.
17-35800
9/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
What  they  probably  do  not  know  is  that  their 
Government  responded  to  that  gesture  of  goodwill 
not  by  joining  in  the  spirit  in  which  it  was  offered, 
but  by  expanding  its  politically  motivated  detentions, 
harassment  and  violence  against  those  who  advocate 
for  political  and  economic  freedom  in  Cuba.  What 
they cannot know, because their Government will not 
let  them  know,  is  that  there  were  credible  reports  of 
almost 10,000 politically motivated detentions in Cuba 
in 2016 alone. That is a massive increase in detentions 
over recent years.
We  had  hoped  our  outreach  to  their  Government 
would  be  met  with  greater  freedom  for  them.  Their 
Government  silences  its  critics.  It  disrupts  peaceful 
assemblies, censors independent journalists and rigs the 
economy  so  that  the  Government  alone  profits.  Their 
Government has exported its bankrupt and destructive 
ideology to Venezuela. It has taught the Maduro regime 
how to silence journalists, crack down on the political 
opposition and impoverish its people. Now, millions of 
Venezuelans join them in being denied their basic rights.
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
As we speak here today, their Government is busy 
choosing  the  successor  to  the  Castro  dictatorship.  It 
is  attempting  to  fool  them  into  believing  they  have  a 
voice by holding local and regional so-called elections. 
But  the  process  they  are  engaged  in  is  not  freedom. 
The results were determined before the first vote was 
cast.  When  the  United  States  abstained  in  the  voting 
on resolution 71/5 last year, its decision was explained 
by saying, “we recognize that the future of the island 
of course lies in the hands of the Cuban people” (A/71/
PV.32, p.15). There is a casual cruelty to that remark for 
which I am profoundly sorry. Regrettably, as of today, 
the future of Cuba is not in their hands. It remains in the 
hands of their dictators.
The  United  States  opposes  the  resolution  today 
in continued solidarity with the Cuban people, and in 
the hope that they will one day be free to choose their 
own destiny. We might stand alone today, but when the 
day of freedom comes for the Cuban people — and it 
will come — we will rejoice with them as only a free 
people can.
of  America,  Argentina  and  Belgium  for  the  loss  of 
innocent lives caused by the heinous terrorist attacks in 
lower Manhattan yesterday, which we condemn in the 
strongest possible terms. Our thoughts and prayers go 
to the bereaved families of the victims.
I would like to extend my warmest welcome to His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba.  I  would  also  like  to  express 
our deep appreciation to the Secretary-General for his 
comprehensive report (A/72/94) on the implementation 
of resolution 71/5.
Viet  Nam  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
earlier  by  the  representatives  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  of  Singapore,  on 
behalf of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, 
respectively.
Our plenary meeting today marks the twenty-sixth 
consecutive year the General Assembly is considering 
and  taking  action  on  a  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba”.  For  so  many  years,  the 
Assembly  has  repeatedly  called  for  the  end  of  the 
United States embargo against Cuba, but we have not 
yet achieved the ultimate goal of the text.
The economic, commercial and financial blockade 
against Cuba runs counter to international law and the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  is  the  most  unjust  and  longest-lasting 
system of unilateral sanctions ever imposed against any 
country  in  our  modern  world  history.  It  has  inflicted 
enormous damage on all sectors of the Cuban economy 
and  caused  untold  hardship  for  the  Cuban  people, 
preventing them from fully enjoying their human rights.
Here I would like to highlight that despite hardships 
caused  by  the  blockade,  the  Cuban  Government  and 
people  have  always  responded  generously  and  in  a 
timely manner to emergency appeals for humanitarian 
aid  by  sending  doctors,  medicine  and  equipment  to 
many countries severely affected by epidemic diseases 
and  natural  disasters.  We  highly  commend  Cuba’s 
great contribution to humankind and are grateful to the 
Cuban people.
Mrs.  Nguyen  (Viet  Nam):  Before  I  begin  my 
statement,  allow  me,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  to 
express  our  solidarity  and  deepest  condolences  to  the 
Governments  and  the  peoples  of  the  United  States 
Since 1992, when Cuba first introduced this draft 
resolution  to  the  General  Assembly,  the  support  of 
people  all  over  the  world  for  the  legitimate  claims  of 
the  Cuban  people  has  been  ceaselessly  growing.  Last 
10/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
year, 191 Member States voted in favour of resolution 
71/5.  At  the  general  debate  of  the  Assembly’s  current 
session in September, 37 heads of delegations spoke out 
against the blockade.
The  restoration  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
Cuba  and  the  United  States  in  2015  represented  an 
important step in the right direction and brought hopes 
for  improved  relations  between  the  two  countries. 
However, measures recently announced by the United 
States Government to reinforce sanctions against Cuba 
are  reversing  the  positive  developments  of  the  past 
two years.
It  is  the  consistent  policy  of  Viet  Nam  to  oppose 
any  imposition  of  unilateral  embargoes  and  coercive 
measures  on  a  sovereign  State.  We  share  the  view 
that  the  continuation  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is 
unjustifiable.  The  strengthening  of  the  blockade  is  a 
severe violation of the human rights of the Cuban people. 
It hinders not only the economic development of Cuba, 
but  also  international  trade  and  the  realization  of  the 
2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Therefore,  today  Viet  Nam  will  vote  in  favour 
of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.2.  By  voting  in  favour,  we 
join  the  international  community  in  calling  on  the 
United States to put an immediate end to that obsolete 
policy,  lift  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
blockade against Cuba and take positive and necessary 
steps  towards  the  full  normalization  of  relations  with 
Cuba.  An  immediate  removal  of  the  blockade  would 
be  beneficial  for  both  Cuba  and  the  United  States,  as 
well  as  for  peace  and  development  in  the  region  and 
the  world,  thereby  living  up  to  the  overwhelming 
aspirations of the international community.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate Viet Nam’s strong 
support, friendship, cooperation and solidarity with the 
brotherly people of Cuba.
Mr.  Arriola  Ramírez  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish): Before I begin, allow me to express Paraguay’s 
most heartfelt condolences and solidarity to the families 
of the victims and to the Government and the people of 
the United States of America for the horrific terrorist 
attack  that  took  place  yesterday  in  New  York,  which 
we condemn.
States, and the representative of Ecuador, on behalf of 
the Group 77 and China.
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  joins  the  voices  of  the 
States that once again, through the General Assembly, 
call  for  the  end  of  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. We reject the coercive measures 
that  contravene  international  law  and  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  undermine  the  foundations 
of  multilateralism  and  negatively  impact  relations 
of  friendship  and  cooperation  among  States  and  the 
economic  and  social  development  of  peoples.  We  are 
convinced that dialogue and direct negotiation in good 
faith  between  the  parties  are  the  appropriate  ways  to 
resolve differences and find lasting and fair solutions 
that  enable  the  peaceful  and  respectful  coexistence 
among the nations of the world.
Paraguay urges the United States of America and 
Cuba not to backtrack on the progress achieved towards 
the  normalization  of  their  diplomatic  relations  but  to 
continue with their best efforts to put an end to the long 
blockade and begin a new stage of relationship based on 
trust, respect and mutual development.
Finally, Paraguay again supports and promotes the 
resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”, which for the 
twenty-sixth consecutive occasion is before the General 
Assembly, and urges all Member States to support it.
Mr.  Bandyopadhyay  (India):  Before  I  formally 
begin  my  statement,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
deepest  condolences  in  connection  with  the  victims 
of  yesterday’s  brutal  and  heinous  attack  in  New 
York,  which  we  strongly  and  vehemently  condemn. 
Our  thoughts  are  with  the  families  of  those  who  lost 
their lives.
India associates itself with the statements made by 
the representative of Ecuador, on behalf of the Group 
77 and China, and by the representative of Venezuela, 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
We welcome the Foreign Minister of Cuba among 
us here today. We also thank the Secretary-General for 
his report (A/72/94) on the issue.
Regarding the topic that brings us together today, 
Paraguay  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered 
earlier by the representative of El Salvador, on behalf 
of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
The issue of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo imposed five decades ago by the United States 
against Cuba has now been considered annually by the 
General Assembly for more than two and a half decades. 
17-35800
11/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
The Assembly has consistently rejected the imposition 
of laws and regulations with extraterritorial impact and 
all  other  forms  of  coercive  economic  measures  that 
hurt the progress and prosperity of the people around 
the world.
Last  year,  191  Member  States  voted  in  favour 
of  resolution  71/5,  expressing  their  strong  support 
for  lifting  the  embargo.  The  General  Assembly  has 
also  called  upon  all  States,  in  conformity  with  their 
obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  international  law,  to  refrain  from  promulgating 
and  applying,  and  to  repeal  and  invalidate,  laws  and 
measures that have extraterritorial effects affecting the 
sovereignty  of  other  States.  The  continued  existence 
of  the  embargo,  in  contravention  of  world  opinion  as 
expressed by the Assembly, undermines multilateralism 
and the credibility of the United Nations itself.
As  the  world’s  largest  democracy,  with  abiding 
faith  in  multilateralism,  India  stands  in  solidarity 
with  the  international  community  in  its  unambiguous 
rejection  of  domestic  laws  that  have  extraterritorial 
impacts.  Embargoes  impede  the  full  achievement  of 
economic and social development by the population of 
the affected country, in particular children and women. 
They  also  hinder  the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights, 
including the right to development, food, medical care 
and social services, among other things.
Successive 
reports  of 
the  Secretary-General, 
including  this  year’s  report,  have  established  that 
the  embargo,  particularly  through  its  extraterritorial 
effects,  has  adversely  affected  the  Cuban  people  and 
the country’s development efforts. At the same time, we 
would like to acknowledge the notable achievements of 
the Cuban people in the socioeconomic and development 
fields, in particular Cuba’s high ranking in the Human 
development Index and its achievement of several of the 
Millennium Development Goals.
In  launching  the  transformative  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  world  leaders  have  again 
strongly urged all States to refrain from any unilateral 
economic,  financial  or  trade  measures  that  are  not  in 
accordance  with  international  law  and  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations.  The  continuation  of  the  embargo 
would  severely  affect  Cuba’s  ability  to  implement 
the  comprehensive  2030  Agenda.  Cuba’s  expertise  in 
health care, achieved despite such conditions, enabled 
it to respond quickly, effectively and on a large scale to 
the call made by the General Assembly three years ago 
to all nations to respond to the Ebola crisis in Africa.
holds 
contact 
People-to-people 
immense 
possibilities for fostering better understanding between 
the  two  nations.  The  international  community  should 
step  up  its  efforts  to  promote  an  environment  free 
from  sanctions  and  embargoes.  India  hopes  for  the 
withdrawal  of  the  embargo  as  soon  as  possible.  India 
supports draft resolution A/72/L.2, submitted by Cuba.
Mr.  Llorentty  Solíz  (Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  I  begin  my  statement,  let 
me say that Bolivia would like to join those expressing 
their solidarity with and condolences to the peoples of 
the  United  States,  Argentina  and  Belgium  following 
the  terrible  attack  that  took  place  some  hours  ago  in 
this city.
At the outset, Bolivia welcomes the presence among 
us of Comrade Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and of his delegation.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/72/94) 
once  again  highlights  the  worldwide  rejection  of  the 
economic, trade and financial blockade arbitarily and 
unilaterally imposed by the United States of America 
against  the  Cuban  people  and  the  entire  international 
community.  That  blockade  affects 
international 
cooperation. It affects health, nutrition, education and 
culture  in  Cuba.  It  affects  Cuba’s  foreign  trade  and 
foreign  investment.  It  also  has  financial  and  banking 
implications  with  regard  to  construction,  tourism, 
transport, civil aviation and industry.
The blockade is an example of the unilateral way in 
which the United States acts in the world. Despite the 
comprehensive blockade, Cuba is an example of social 
development, cooperation and solidarity.
The  United  States  is  unilaterally  imposing  an 
unjust, unlawful, immoral embargo. It is imposing an 
extraterritorial embargo that contravenes the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
United States is imposing an embargo that violates the 
principles  of  sovereignty,  non-intervention  in  internal 
affairs,  free  trade  and  navigation.  The  United  States 
is  imposing  an  embargo  that  seeks  to  undermine  the 
right  of  the  Cuban  people  to  self-determination  and 
the  efforts  of  their  Government  to  combat  poverty 
and inequality.
I want to take this opportunity to recall the words 
of Nelson Mandela, who told us:
12/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
“During  all  my  years  in  prison,  Cuba  was  an 
inspiration.  The  victories  of  Cuba  destroyed  the 
myths  of  the  invincibility  of  the  white  oppressor. 
They  inspired  the  struggling  peoples  in  South 
Africa at a key moment in the fight for the liberation 
in  South  Africa  of  our  people  from  the  apartheid 
regime. What country other than Cuba could point 
to  a  record  of  services  of  such  generosity  and 
solidarity with the causes of liberation in Africa? 
Cuba  was  an  example  of  dedication  and  service 
to others.”
I wish to reiterate that last phrase of Nelson Mandela: 
Cuba was and is an example of dedication and service 
to others.
They  want  to  teach  us  lessons  about  democracy. 
Those who turn their backs on international law want 
to  teach  us  about  democracy.  Those  who  believe  that 
multilateralism  is  a  theatre  want  to  come  and  give 
us  lessons  on  democracy.  Those  who  organize  coups 
d’état and who interfere in our political processes with 
absolute impunity want to come give us lessons about 
democracy. They also want to give us lessons on human 
rights — those who promote and have promoted torture 
want to teach us about human rights. Those who have 
turned the Guantanamo naval base into an illegal prison 
want to teach about human rights. Those who want to 
teach  us  about  human  rights  have  secret  prisons  and 
detention  centres  spread  throughout  the  world.  They 
want to come give us classes on multilateralism, those 
who do not believe in science or that climate change is 
brought about by human action.
They want us to believe that they are exceptional. 
Talk  about  exceptionalism  is  not  only  dangerous  and 
offensive. It is not only injurious to the purposes of the 
Charter of the United Nations and of the Organization, it 
also demonstrates, as President Morales Ayma himself 
says,  the  arrogance  of  a  Government  that  opposes  all 
peoples.  The  Government  of  the  United  States  is  not 
exceptional, although it is unique. That Government is 
responsible for that genocidal embargo, unprecedented 
in the history of humankind. It is unique in that it does 
not respect international law. It is unique in that it is not 
interested in multilateralism. It is unique because it acts 
with the most blatant impunity.
It  is  time  for  the  Assembly  and  for  the  United 
Nations to enforce the decisions we have taken. Bolivia 
once again resolutely supports the resolution before the 
Assembly. However, we wish to express our gratitude 
for the tremendous solidarity that has saved hundreds 
of  thousands  of  lives  in  my  country:  the  solidarity  of 
the  Cuban  people.  That  solidarity  is  evident  not  only 
in  my  region  but  also  throughout  the  world.  When 
Ebola struck African countries, Cuba was there. When 
hurricanes struck our brothers in the Caribbean, Cuba 
was  there.  When  illiteracy  struck  my  country,  Cuba 
was there, in the most remote places, with its medical 
staff — more than 50,000 medical staff throughout the 
world. However, even more important, Cuba stands as 
an example with its dignity and its unwavering strength.
Bolivia  requests,  urges  and  demands  that  the 
blockade be lifted.
Mr. Awad (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I would like to express our condolences to and solidarity 
with  the  peoples  and  the  Governments  of  the  United 
States,  Argentina  and  Belgium  for  the  tragic  incident 
that took place in New York City yesterday.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered earlier by the representatives of Ecuador, on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China; of Venezuela, on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries; of 
Côte d’Ivoire, on behalf of the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation; and of Gabon, on behalf of the Group of 
African States. Allow me to add the following remarks 
in my national capacity.
It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to  welcome  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Cuba, and to express to him once again the perennial 
and full support and solidarity of Egypt with the people 
and Government of Cuba.
The unilateral policy imposed by the United States 
of America against Cuba has had implications for the 
economic and social lives of the Cuban people, as well 
as for their livelihoods. It has had an adverse impact on 
the Cuban people’s access to food, medicine, education 
and advanced technology. The unilateral blockade has 
had  a  negative  impact  on  the  critical  sectors  of  the 
Cuban  economy.  The  manifestations  of  the  blockade, 
which  has  been  in  place  for  more  than  five  decades, 
affect  Cuba’s  ability  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, along with its Goals and 
targets. The blockade runs counter to the commitment 
undertaken by Member States to leave no one behind, 
which constitutes the bedrock of our collective action.
Egypt will continue to advocate for the rights and 
demands of the Cuban people. We call for the full and 
17-35800
13/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
complete  lifting  of  the  coercive  measures  that  have 
been imposed by the United States against Cuba since 
the 1950s. We hope that the parties will capitalize on 
the  positive  steps  and  developments  that  took  place 
in  2016  as  a  prelude  to  the  normalization  of  relations 
between the two countries.
Egypt  supports  the  immediate  lifting  of  the 
blockade  imposed  on  Cuba,  and  we  reiterate  that 
continuing  to  insist  on  a  historical  mistake  for  years 
will never make it the right thing to do.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  Yesterday  in  lower 
Manhattan,  a  few  blocks  away  from  United  Nations 
Headquarters, a horrendous terrorist attack caused too 
many  victims.  We  of  course  strongly  condemn  that 
attack,  and  we  pay  tribute  to  the  victims  and  express 
our sympathy to our colleagues from the United States, 
Argentina and Belgium. It is high time to regroup, to 
fight  this  scourge,  and  we  need  everyone  on  board. 
That is precisely why this debate is taking place in this 
particular context.
While  members  of  the  international  community 
unanimously  welcomed  in  the  Assembly  the  positive 
developments between Cuba and the United States over 
the past couple of years, hoping that those steps would 
pave the way towards the normalization of the bilateral 
relations  and  the  eventual  lifting  of  the  embargo 
imposed  on  Cuba,  we  sadly  realize  that  this  embargo 
not only remains in place but has been strengthened.
(NAM), 
the  Organization  of 
Africa  has  spoken  up,  as  have  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement 
Islamic 
Cooperation  and  even  the  Group  of  77,  with  which 
of  course  we  align  ourselves.  Algeria  will  continue 
to  speak  up  and  state  its  stance  to  its  friends.  And, 
because  we  are  friends,  frankness  is  our  duty.  We 
therefore reiterate our stance about the continuation of 
the economic, commercial and financial embargo that 
has  been  unilaterally  imposed  against  Cuba  for  more 
than five decades. Those sanctions, which we consider 
unjustified,  not  only  exacerbate  the  sufferings  of  the 
Cuban people but obstruct the economic development 
of Cuba and hamper its efforts to achieve sustainable 
development,  including  the  Goals  set  in  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The annual adoption by an overwhelming majority 
of the members of the General Assembly of a resolution 
calling for the lifting of the blockade against Cuba is 
a message not to be ignored, for it reflects the strong 
wish of the international community. Let me recall that 
Algeria  has  always  stressed  that  Cuba,  like  any  other 
Member  State,  has  the  right  to  freedom  of  trade  and 
navigation  and  to  expand  trade  on  a  mutually  agreed 
basis  with  any  economic  partner.  Algeria  also  fully 
shares  the  NAM  position  that  has  regularly  rejected 
the  imposition  of  unilateral  acts  or  extraterritorial 
regulations that impede the development of any country, 
and all forms of coercive economic and trade measures. 
That position reflects our principles of foreign policy.
Algeria  considers  Cuba  to  be  more  than  just  a 
friend  who  stood  by  us  in  dire  times.  Cuba  has  done 
that in many parts of the world. In that regard, I would 
like  to  acknowledge  the  commitment  and  undeniable 
expertise of the Cuban doctors, which has always been 
demonstrated well beyond their borders. For example, 
when many hunkered down, Cuban doctors went to fight 
the Ebola crisis in Africa. They did it on our behalf and 
for the sake of the whole international community with 
no payback whatsoever.
Today  more  than  ever,  it  is  important  to  rebuild 
the momentum and move on the positive achievements 
made  so  far  in  the  relations  between  Cuba  and  the 
United  States.  In  engaging  in  a  constructive  and 
respectful  bilateral  dialogue  in  full  respect  of  the 
principles  of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  we  will  certainly  chart  a  new  way 
forward for the full normalization of relations between 
Cuba  and  the  United  States,  leading  to  the  lifting  of 
the long-standing, unnecessary embargo for the mutual 
benefit of the peoples of both countries and the whole 
region and beyond, throughout the world.
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  I  would  like  to  begin,  as  other  delegations 
have before us, by expressing our heartfelt condolences 
to the people of the United States, to the families of the 
people who lost their lives, and to the American citizens 
in  the  wake  of  the  heinous,  fatal  and  senseless  act  of 
terror yesterday. Our condolences also go to Argentina 
and Belgium, which also lost citizens as a result of the 
terror attack.
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  preparing 
the  report  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba (A/72/94).
14/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
The position of the Russian Federation on the actions 
of the United States remains consistent and unchanged. 
In  solidarity  with  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
members of the international community, we strongly 
support  the  urgent  abolition  of  the  United  States 
blockade  against  Cuba,  introduced  almost  60  years 
ago,  in  all  its  manifestations.  The  embargo  against 
Cuba  is  not  only  a  relic  of  the  past,  but  a  glaring 
example  of  gross  interference  in  the  internal  affairs 
of a sovereign State through sanctions, hindering that 
State’s  socioeconomic  development  and  infringing  on 
the  legitimate  interests  and  rights  of  its  citizens  to  a 
decent life, thereby embodying a policy that is contrary 
to human rights and humanitarian values.
We  believe  that  such  discriminatory  practice  is 
counterproductive,  unjust  and  senseless.  We  regard 
it  as  a  challenge  to  the  entire  system  of  international 
relations,  as  it  undermines  the  basis  for  regional  and 
global  stability  and  normalizes  the  use  of  sanctions. 
The long-term pressure on Cuba by the United States is 
having a destructive effect on the process of Havana’s 
full-scale  integration  into  the  global  financial  and 
economic architecture and on Cuba’s ability to achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
We  saw  it  as  a  positive  when  the  United  States 
decided to abstain in the voting on resolution 71/5, on 
26  October  2016  (see  A/72/PV.32),  as  that  reflected 
the emerging general pivot of the United States stance 
towards  Cuba.  However,  the  full-fledged  recovery 
of  the  relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States 
never  took  place,  following  the  arrival  of  the  new 
Administration  in  Washington,  D.C.  On  the  contrary, 
we are now witnessing clear regression: stagnation in 
movement on issues that are fundamentally important 
for  both  countries,  growing  tensions  in  inter-State 
relations and the general deterioration of ties that were 
being established between the two countries.
Today, we again hear hostile rhetoric in the spirit 
of  the  Cold  War.  Instead  of  trying  for  normalization, 
a course of action has been set to tighten the blockade 
and increase political pressure on the Cuban leadership 
under far-fetched pretexts. Both chambers of the Federal 
Assembly  of  the  Russian  Federation  addressed  an 
appeal to the General Assembly and to the parliaments 
of States Members of the United Nations condemning 
that course of action. The texts of those statements have 
been circulated as General Assembly documents under 
agenda item 42.
Given the current situation and in accordance with 
its principled stance, the Russian Federation will vote in 
favour of draft resolution A/72/L.2, calling for the full 
ending of the blockade on the basis of the fundamental 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  such 
as 
the  non-infringement  of  national  sovereignty, 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  sovereign 
States  and  the  need  to  resolve  disputes  by  peaceful 
means in a way that does not jeopardize international 
peace, security and justice.
Ms. Mejía Vélez (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): I 
join in the expression of condolences to the Government 
and  people  of  the  United  States  for  the  despicable 
terrorist attack that took place in New York, the home 
of  this  Organization’s  Headquarters,  and  I  extend  my 
condolences to Argentina and Belgium for the citizens 
of those countries who were killed in the attack.
Colombia  welcomes  the  presence  of  the  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  and  his  entire  delegation.  We  are 
also  grateful  for  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/72/94), as well as the holding of today’s important 
debate in which the membership of the United Nations 
will  pronounce  their  positions  on  a  resolution  first 
adopted  26  years  ago,  in  1992:  “Necessity  of  ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba” 
(resolution 47/19).
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Ecuador,  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China; the representative 
of  El  Salvador, on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States; and the representative 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, on behalf of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
As  we  have  previously  stated  in  this  Hall,  the 
commercial, economic and financial blockade imposed 
against  Cuba  is  contrary  to  international  law  and  the 
spirit  and  principles  that  inspire  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. Since the adoption of resolution 47/19 
26 years ago, Colombia, like the whole of Latin America 
and  the  Caribbean  and  like  the  great  majority  of  the 
States  Members  of  this  Organization,  has  expressed 
its  unrestricted  support  for  Cuba  by  voting  in  favour 
this resolution. That decision is evidence of our stance 
with regard to the non-imposition of unilateral coercive 
measures  by  States  and  is  based  on  international 
law  and  adherence  to  the  principles  of  political 
17-35800
15/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
independence,  the  self-determination  of  peoples  and 
non-intervention  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of other nations.
Colombia  reiterates  its  conviction  that  Member 
States must increasingly foster relations of cooperation 
and  friendship  based  on  multilateralism  and  respect 
for the principle of sovereign equality, as enshrined in 
Chapter  I  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  That 
objective  will  undoubtedly  allow  us  to  strengthen 
confidence 
together  and  with  greater 
determination,  the  challenges  that  States  face  at  the 
global level.
tackle, 
to 
Mr.  Matjila  (South  Africa):  Before  I  deliver  my 
national  statement  on  behalf  of  the  South  African 
Government,  I  would  like  to  convey  our  heartfelt 
condolences to the United States of America, Argentina 
and  Belgium  for  the  tragic  event  that  took  place 
yesterday in lower Manhattan. Our hearts and prayers 
go to the bereaved families and those still fighting for 
their lives.
We  welcome  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba,  His  Excellency  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  to 
this  important  debate,  which  seeks  to  end  the  long-
standing embargo.
South  Africa  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Ecuador,  on  behalf 
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China;  the  representative  of 
Gabon,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States; 
and  the  representative  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement.
We  take  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
A/72/94, of 26 July, which describes the current state of 
affairs under the United States economic, commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  the  sister  country  of 
Cuba and its people. South Africa has also taken note 
of the announcement made on 16 June regarding a new 
United  States  policy  towards  Cuba,  which  signaled  a 
shift from the reconciliation and improved relationship 
that  had  been  initiated  between  Cuba  and  the  United 
States under the Obama Administration and reaffirmed 
the  United  States  statutory  embargo  on  Cuba.  I  want 
to express our disappointment that the current United 
States Administration has chosen a path of regression 
in  the  normalization  of  relations  with  Cuba  that 
reinforces the isolation of the Cuban people and further 
harms them.
South  Africa  has  a  long-standing  position  of 
support for the resolution on the necessity of ending the 
embargo  against  Cuba.  The  South  Africa  Parliament 
adopted  a  resolution  in  August  2014  calling  upon  the 
then President of the United States to lift the blockade 
immediately and engage Cuba more decisively. It is a 
position  that  reflects  the  sentiment  of  South  Africans 
and the people of Africa.
We  therefore  urge  the  international  community 
to  work  together  to  free  Cuba  from  the  political, 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  shackles  under 
the embargo that the United States has imposed upon 
that country for more than half a century. We believe 
that the United States embargo was, and is, a travesty 
of justice, which should not continue to be in place in 
these modern times, particularly since the adoption of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  The 
adverse effects of unilateral, coercive measures by the 
United  States  on  crucial  sectors  in  Cuba  —  such  as 
public health, nutrition and agriculture, banking, trade, 
investment and tourism — deprive the Cuban people of 
their basic human rights. They also hinder Cuba’s well-
documented efforts to achieve sustainable development, 
including the Sustainable Development Goals.
South  Africa  and  Cuba  enjoy  solid  bilateral  and 
diplomatic  relations.  Our  diplomatic  relations  over 
the  23  years  since  the  dawn  of  democracy  in  1994 
in  South  Africa  serve  as  a  successful  and  exemplary 
model of South-South cooperation. It is a contribution 
to  international  relations  and  understanding.  Our 
cooperation, supported by a set of bilateral agreements 
covering a wide range of areas, has a direct impact on the 
people of both countries. It influences their livelihood, 
development and understanding of one another, and it 
will be further enhanced once the embargo is lifted.
The  unilateral  and  illegal  total  blockade  of  Cuba 
by  the  United  States  also  affects  bilateral  trade 
between South Africa and Cuba, as the extraterritorial 
application  of  the  sanctions  on  third  countries  has 
prevented  South  African  businesses  from  pursuing 
trade  and  investment  opportunities  with  Cuba.  South 
Africa  therefore  joins  the  international  community 
in  condemning  this  unilateral  action  and  calls  on  the 
United  States  of  America  to  implement  measures  to 
immediately repeal those inhumane actions.
Those  actions  are  contrary 
the  purposes, 
principles  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  the  principles  of  the  sovereign 
to 
16/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
equality of States and non-interference in the domestic 
affairs  of  Member  States.  The  severe  economic  and 
financial  restrictions  that  are  stifling  the  economic 
and  social  development  of  Cuba  and  thereby  further 
exacerbating the hardships and suffering of the people 
of Cuba are unacceptable.
It  is  in  that  context  that  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa  reiterates  its  unconditional  support  for  the 
implementation  of  this  draft  resolution.  We  appeal 
once again to the international community to redouble 
its  efforts  to  promote  a  constructive  and  transparent 
dialogue  between  the  two  countries  with  a  view  to 
achieving  the  objectives  of  all  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions already adopted on this matter, and 
to ensure the sustainable progress of the people of Cuba. 
We would like to request third-party countries to also 
support Cuba and its people by repealing all domestic 
laws  and  regulations  that  contribute  to  hampering 
their development.
Let  us  join  hands  together  in  global  solidarity 
to  end  the  embargo,  and  let  us  vote  in  support  of  the 
draft resolution to end the embargo on Cuba, as we did 
overwhelmingly in 2016. We cannot afford to lose this 
historic opportunity. Now is the time.
Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
expresses its condemnation of the attack that took place 
in New York City yesterday and conveys its condolences 
to the bereaved families of the victims and sympathy to 
those who were injured.
China  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made 
earlier by the representative of Ecuador on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China.
In  2015  the  United  Nations  development  summit 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
thereby  ushering  in  a  new  era  for  the  global  cause  of 
sustainable  development  and  charting  a  course  for 
the  development  of  all  countries  and  international 
cooperation  to  that  end.  The  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda is the core task of the whole world in the 
area of development. All countries need to adhere to the 
principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution 
and  benefit-sharing,  and  join  hands  in  responding  to 
challenges,  creating  new  opportunities  and  seeking 
new  drivers  for  development.  They  should  use  their 
respective  advantages  to  help  one  another  to  achieve 
mutually beneficial outcomes. Given those ambitions, 
the  economic  blockade  and  sanctions  imposed  by  the 
United States against Cuba should end immediately.
For 26 consecutive years, the General Assembly has 
adopted, by an overwhelming majority, the resolution 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba”,  urging  all  States  to  abide 
by the Charter of the United Nations and principles of 
international law, and repeal or invalidate all laws and 
measure  that  have  extraterritorial  effects  and  affect 
the sovereignty of other States, the legitimate interests 
of entities or persons under their jurisdiction, and the 
freedom of trade and navigation.
It  is  regrettable,  however,  that  for  years  those 
resolutions have not been effectively implemented and 
that the economic, commercial and financial blockade 
imposed by the United States against Cuba continues. 
The blockade violates the purposes and principles of the 
Charter and the relevant General Assembly resolutions. 
It has caused enormous economic and financial losses 
to  Cuba  and  has  impeded  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban 
people  to  realize  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
including the eradication of poverty. The blockade has 
undermined the rights of the Cuban people to survival 
and  to  development  and  has  affected  other  countries’ 
normal economic, commercial and financial exchanges 
with Cuba.
China  has  always  advocated  respect  for  the  right 
of  every  country  to  independently  choose  its  own 
system and path towards development and has opposed 
unilateral  sanctions  against  other  States  by  military, 
political, economic or other means. China has strictly 
observed and implemented the relevant resolutions. We 
have maintained with Cuba economic and trade relations 
and people-to-people exchanges, and our friendly and 
mutually beneficial cooperation in all fields is making 
continuous progress. That is in line with the desire of 
our two peoples and is conducive to the economic and 
social development of Cuba.
the  world 
is  undergoing  great 
development,  transformation  and  adjustment.  Peace, 
development,  cooperation  and  win-win  outcomes 
have  become  the  trend  of  our  time.  Exchanges  and 
cooperation  on  an  equal  footing  among  countries  are 
part  of  that  general  trend,  and  dialogue  on  an  equal 
footing and friendly consultation represent the best way 
to resolve differences.
Currently, 
The  recent  restoration  of  diplomatic  relations 
between the United States and Cuba was an important 
step  towards  the  normalization  of  their  relations. 
17-35800
17/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
China  hopes  that  the  United  States  and  Cuba  will 
continue  to  advance  the  process  of  normalization 
of  their  relationship,  that  the  United  States  will 
comprehensively repeal its policy of blockading Cuba 
as soon as possible and that the United States and Cuba 
will develop normal relations in line with the purposes 
and principles of the Charter and basic norms governing 
international relations. That is in the common interests 
of both the United States and Cuba, and their peoples, 
and  is  conducive  to  the  peace  and  stability  of  the 
Americas, as well as the common development of the 
international community.
China  will  once  again  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  (A/72/L.2),  submitted  by  Cuba  under  this 
agenda item.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): Mexico joins in the condolences expressed to 
Argentina, Belgium and the United States for the loss 
of  their  citizens,  innocent  victims  of  the  criminal  act 
of  terrorism  that  occurred  yesterday  in  this  city.  We 
assure them of the solidarity of the Government and the 
people of Mexico.
We welcome the presence of the Foreign Minister 
of  Cuba,  and  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
presenting  his  report  on  the  item  we  are  addressing 
today (A/72/94).
Mexico is once again participating in the discussion 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba  because  we  are  convinced 
that  international  relations  should  promote  peace 
and  harmony  among  States  while  also  promoting  the 
prosperity of our peoples. Regional economic growth, 
sustainable  development  and  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes,  in  a  context  of  mutual  respect,  are 
essential  aspects  of  good-neighbourliness.  With  this 
conviction,  Mexico  has  supported  the  process  under 
way  of  normalizing  relations  between  Cuba  and  the 
United States.
Mexico  reiterates  its  rejection  of  the  unilateral 
actions  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  including  the 
imposition of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo for more than five decades. That is because it is 
contrary to international law and goes against the basic 
principles that should sustain friendly and cooperative 
relationships between States, principles that are set out 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  which  were 
endorsed by the General Assembly.
Mexico 
issues  a  brotherly  appeal 
to  both 
Governments to find common ground through dialogue 
and  in  that  way  resolve  their  differences  in  a  context 
of mutual respect and recognition of the sovereignty of 
both nations.
Mexico  is  convinced  that  the  elimination  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  will 
enable  Cuba  to  modernize  its  social  and  economic 
model and will facilitate its access to the international 
financial system. It would help it to rebuild more swiftly 
in  the  wake  of  Hurricane  Irma  and  would  promote 
natural trade and investment flows in the region.
The Mexican Government is aiding the process of 
modernizing  the  social  and  economic  model  in  Cuba 
with technical assistance, exchange of experiences and 
capacity-building  to  implement  economic  reforms, 
while  recognizing  that  that  process  will  generate 
development  opportunities  for  Cuban  society.  We 
recognize  the  actions  undertaken  by  the  Government 
of  Cuba  to  fulfil  its  international  commitments  on 
development,  as  social  development  lies  at  the  heart 
of  Cuba’s  policies,  strategies  and  public  programmes. 
Cuba has demonstrated a firm commitment to the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mexico and Cuba share a historic and deep-rooted 
relationship, which is why the Government of Mexico 
reiterates its friendship and solidarity with the Cuban 
people and with its desire to continue working together 
on matters of common interest.
Ms. Flores Herrera (Panama) (spoke in Spanish): 
Allow me at the outset to express the solidarity of the 
Government  of  Panama  in  the  face  of  the  tragic  and 
irreparable loss of human lives as a result of the attack 
that  took  place  yesterday  in  this  city.  We  express  our 
deepest sympathy to the peoples and the Governments 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  Argentina  and 
Belgium.  We  most  vehemently  condemn  those  brutal 
and unjustifiable actions, which violate the integrity of 
human beings and the stability of the global community.
With  regard  to  today’s  agenda  item,  I  wish  to 
extend  our  congratulations 
to  Foreign  Minister 
Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla  and  to  the  delegation  of 
Cuba  accompanying  him  for  this  discussion  of  draft 
resolution A/72/L.2.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  earlier  by  the  representatives  of  Ecuador,  El 
Salvador and Venezuela on behalf of the Group of 77 
18/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
and  China,  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  and  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries, respectively. We wish to make some further 
comments in our national capacity.
In keeping with the historic position that we have 
maintained  on  today’s  issue,  Panama  will  once  again 
vote in favour of the draft resolution entitled “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba”,  for  we  believe  that  elimination  of  that 
embargo  cannot  be  postponed  any  longer  in  order  to 
foster the full development of the Cuban people.
As  indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  in 
document  A/72/94,  Panama,  as  a  founding  Member 
of  the  United  Nations  and  a  State  that  advocates 
peace,  maintains  friendly  and  cooperative  relations 
with  all  States  on  the  basis  of  inclusion  and  respect 
for  the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law.  In 
that  regard,  Panama  today  retains  the  optimism  with 
which,  during  the  seventh  Summit  of  the  Americas, 
in  2015,  we  witnessed  the  restoration  of  diplomatic 
relations between the Governments of the United States 
and Cuba and with that the possibility of ending their 
estrangement for the benefit of both States and for our 
entire region.
In  September  in  this  very  Hall,  referring  to 
Cuban-United  States  relations,  President  Juan  Carlos 
Varela stated:
  “As  we  near  the  next  Summit  of  the  Americas, 
in Lima, we must approach it with a constructive 
spirit  and  an  openness  to  dialogue  to  analyse  the 
problems of the region and uphold peace and unity 
across the Americas.” (A/72/PV.7, p. 16)
As  we  once  again  vote  in  favour  of  lifting  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba,  Panama  also  wishes  to  see  a  renewal  of  the 
necessary  dialogue  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba, for we believe there is an opportunity for both to 
continue advancing on a shared agenda. As we add our 
voice to those of the great majority of nations, Panama 
reasserts  its  firm  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a 
legitimate means to achieve the resolution of disputes 
between States.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): It is now 
a real pleasure for me to give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, to introduce draft resolution A/72/L.2.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
On behalf of the people and the Government of Cuba, I 
would like to express to the people and the Government 
of  the  United  States,  Mayor  Bill  de  Blasio,  Governor 
Andrew Cuomo and other New York officials, as well 
as to the citizens of New York and the families of the 
victims in particular, our most heartfelt condolences for 
the terrorist act that took place yesterday afternoon. I 
also express our deepest sympathy to the peoples and 
the Governments of Argentina and Belgium.
I  most  vehemently  condemn  the  disrespectful, 
offensive and interfering statement by the Ambassador 
of the United States to the United Nations against Cuba 
and against the Cuban Government just a few minutes 
ago. I remind her that the United States — where flagrant 
violations  of  human  rights  are  committed  that  cause 
great concern in the international community — does 
not  have  the  slightest  moral  authority  to  criticize 
Cuba,  a  small,  united  country  with  an  extensive, 
recognized international record. It is the home of noble, 
hardworking and friendly people.
She spoke on behalf of the leader of an empire that 
is responsible for most of the wars being waged on the 
planet  today,  in  which  innocent  people  are  murdered 
and  which  is  the  decisive  factor  in  global  instability 
and serious threats to international peace and security, 
trampling on international law and the Charter of the 
United Nations, which she just cynically invoked.
It  has  not  been  55  years;  the  Ambassador  of  the 
United  States  erred  in  her  first  sentence.  There  have 
been  26  sessions  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  more 
than a century has passed since the origin of the events 
being  discussed  today.  She  is  lying.  She  is  using  the 
same style that prevails in United States policy today. It 
all started before the Cuban nation even existed. When 
the  Cuban  people  first  rose  up  in  armed  rebellion  in 
1868,  the  appetites  for  annexation  and  domination  by 
what  was  and  is  today  United  States  imperialism  had 
already been unleashed.
In 1898, using a pretext, as is characteristic of the 
modern  history  of  the  United  States  —  the  explosion 
of the ship Maine in a Cuban port — the United States 
entered as allies of the Cuban independence forces and 
then occupied the country as invaders and imposed the 
Platt Amendment, which curtailed Cuba’s independence 
and  sovereignty.  Three  military  occupations  were 
carried out, imposing 60 years of absolute domination, 
which came to an end on 1 January 1959 with the entry 
17-35800
19/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
of the rebel army into Havana and the triumph of the 
Cuban revolution, which wages the same battles today 
that have inspired its people for more than 100 years.
She  is  lying.  She  used  a  phrase  attributing  to  a 
supposedly Cuban source a statement on the so-called 
October crisis, or the Cuban missile crisis. I invite her 
to tell us who her source is — who the author is — and 
to  provide  evidence.  It  sounds  like  one  of  the  tweets 
that proliferate in this country in these times of hatred, 
division and dirty politics.
She 
to 
With  the  triumph  of  the  Cuban  revolution,  the 
Government of the United States made regime change 
its objective. The policy announced by President Trump 
on 16 June is not new; it is the same policy, an old policy 
rooted in the past.
referred 
the  eminent  United  States 
Ambassador  Adlai  Stevenson.  She  forgot  to  mention 
that  he  was  the  person  who,  deceived  by  his  own 
Government,  had  the  unfortunate  duty  to  show,  in  a 
Security  Council  meeting,  photographs  of  what  were 
supposedly  Cuban  aircraft  bearing  the  emblem  of  the 
Cuban  Air  Force,  which  on  15  April  bombed  the  city 
of Havana, causing much destruction and serving as a 
prelude to the attack, the invasion of the Playa Girón, 
the Bay of Pigs. Those bombings and the involuntary lie 
of Ambassador Stevenson, who had been deceived by 
his Government, occurred even before the proclamation 
of the socialist character of the Cuban revolution.
She spoke about the October crisis. These days we 
are  hearing  talk  of  President  Kennedy’s  assassination 
and  the  declassification  of  documents.  The  truth  has 
been  hidden  from  the  people  of  the  United  States  for 
too  long.  May  all  documents  be  declassified.  But  if 
she wants to talk about those issues, I suggest that she 
read the book Trained to Kill: The Inside Story of CIA 
Plots  against  Castro,  Kennedy,  and  Che,  by  Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA) agent Veciana, in which he 
recounts his meeting with the CIA agent David Phillips 
and with Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas during the third 
week  of  September  1963.  It  is  a  history  of  lies  and 
aggression,  of  Operation  Northwoods  and  Operation 
Mongoose.  Recently  declassified  information  reveals 
that at that time the United States had 261,000 soldiers 
standing ready for direct invasion of Cuba. There were 
more  than  700  agents  at  the  CIA’s  largest  base,  in 
Florida — the CIA’s largest base until it established an 
even bigger one in Saigon.
She uses a style reminiscent of the trial of Alice in 
Wonderland: sentence first, verdict afterwards.
I speak on behalf of my people, and I also speak on 
behalf of those who cannot call on President Trump and 
the  Ambassador  of  the  United  States  by  their  names, 
but who share my feelings and think as I do.
At  least  she  has  recognized  the  total  isolation  of 
the United States in this Hall and in the world. It stands 
alone when it comes to the embargo against Cuba. She 
disregards  the  weight  of  the  truth  and underestimates 
the  strength  of  one  just  idea  in  the  depths  of  a  cave, 
which  is  more  powerful  than  an  army,  as  José  Martí 
said. He wrote, in an unfinished letter that he carried 
close to his heart,
“Every day I am in danger of giving my life for my 
country and for my duty ... to prevent in time, with 
the independence of Cuba, the United States from 
extending  its  hold  across  the  Antilles  and  falling 
with greater force on our lands of America.”
Everything  began  much  longer  than  26  years 
ago — much longer than 55 years ago. Along with the 
military  aggression,  the  fabrication  of  pretexts,  plans 
for direct invasion, measures to strangle our economy, 
State  terrorism,  destabilization  and  subversion,  there 
was  a  proposal  in  the  infamous  memorandum  of 
Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  State  Lester  Mallory, 
which was signed on the 6 April 1960. In it, he wrote 
that  the  embargo  on  Cuba  was  created  to  provoke 
“disenchantment  and  disaffection  based  on  economic 
dissatisfaction  and  hardship”  by  “denying  money  and 
supplies to Cuba, to decrease monetary and real wages, 
to  bring  about  hunger,  desperation  and  overthrow 
of government.”
Nonetheless, when President Raúl Castro Ruz and 
President Barack Obama made surprising and hopeful 
announcements  on  17  December  2014,  President 
Obama  described  the  embargo  as  failed  and  obsolete, 
ineffective  in  achieving  its  objectives,  causing  harm 
to  the  Cuban  people  and  isolating  the  United  States 
Government.  Later  he  described  it  as  useless  in 
advancing the interests of the United States — failed, 
senseless, not viable and a burden for citizens.
But the embargo was never recognized as a flagrant, 
massive and systematic violation of the human rights of 
Cubans, which the United States Ambassador cynically 
omitted  a  few  hours  ago,  nor  was  it  recognized  as 
inconsistent  with  international  law  or  as  an  act  of 
20/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
genocide as defined by the Geneva Convention, nor was 
its goal of subjugating our people renounced.
Nonetheless, the then President of the United States 
repeatedly  stated  his  decision  to  use  his  executive 
powers and work with Congress to lift the blockade. A 
practical reflection of that intention was the abstention 
by  the  United  States  in  the  voting  on  this  resolution 
in  2016,  which  the  United  States  Ambassador  has 
just mocked.
During 
that  period,  substantial  progress  was 
made  in  terms  of  diplomatic  relations,  dialogue  and 
cooperation in areas of mutual interest and benefit. But 
during the past two years the embargo was maintained 
in  all  fundamental  aspects,  although  some  executive 
decisions were made to modify its implementation in a 
very limited but positive way. The way in which the use 
of travel licences was expanded was significant, within 
the legislative prohibition on travel to Cuba — which is 
a violation of the rights and civil liberties of students 
of the United States, which the Ambassador also failed 
to  mention.  Tangible  results  were  also  achieved  in 
bilateral  cooperation,  to  our  mutual  benefit,  in  areas 
as important as confronting terrorism, drug trafficking 
and cybercrime.
On 16 June, President Donald Trump proclaimed the 
embargo  a  fundamental  axis  of  his  anti-Cuban  policy 
and announced a series of measures meant to reinforce 
it.  In  an  antiquated,  hostile  speech  befitting  the  Cold 
War,  and  before  an  audience  composed  of,  among 
others, bitter Batista-ists, annexationists and terrorists, 
the  United  States  Government  returned  to  worn-out 
allegations  of  supposed  human  rights  violations  in 
Cuba to justify the tightening of the embargo. In this 
Hall this morning we heard his echo.
President Trump does not have the slightest moral 
authority to question Cuba. He leads a Government of 
millionaires that intends to implement brutal measures 
against  the  poor  and  the  low-income  families  of  this 
country, against minorities and immigrants. He pursues 
a programme that encourages hatred and division and 
preaches  a  dangerous  exceptionalism  and  supremacy 
disguised as patriotism that will lead to more violence. 
He  ignores  the  support  of  his  voters  —  two  thirds  of 
United States citizens, as well as Cuban residents in the 
United States — for ending the embargo.
Current  United  States  policies  harm  citizens. 
Corruption of policy — which has been hijacked by so-
called  special  interests,  that  is,  by  corporate  interests 
and  money  —  reigns.  There  are  no  guarantees  of 
education,  health  care  or  social  security.  There  are 
restrictions  on  union  organizing  and  terrible  gender-
based discrimination.
Deserving of condemnation are the use of torture; 
murders  of  African-Americans  by  the  police;  the 
civilian deaths caused by its troops; the indiscriminate 
and racially differentiated death penalty; the murders, 
repression  and  police  surveillance  of  immigrants;  the 
separation  of  families;  the  detention  and  deportation 
of  minors;  and  the  brutal  measures  threatening  the 
children of illegal immigrants who grew up and were 
educated in the United States. This is the Government 
that lost the popular vote.
The  United  States  Ambassador  has  told  us  her 
dream.  I  prefer  to  repeat  that  of  Martin  Luther  King, 
when he said:
“I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up 
and live out the true meaning of its creed ... that all 
men are created equal ... let freedom ring”.
She  has  come  to  tell  us  that  she  recognizes  that  the 
future  of  the  island  rests  in  the  hands  of  the  Cuban 
people. She is telling an absolute lie. It was never that 
way, throughout history. It is a history of the intent to 
achieve domination and hegemony over Cuba.
The announced policy aims to roll relations back to 
a past of confrontation to satisfy the spurious interests 
of  extremist  circles  of  the  United  States  right  and  a 
frustrated  and  ageing  minority  of  Cuban  origin  in 
Florida. The presidential memorandum establishing the 
policy towards Cuba includes, among other measures, 
new  prohibitions  on  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  relations  between  United  States  companies 
and Cuban enterprises. It also restricts the freedom to 
travel of United States citizens with the elimination of 
individual trips under the category of people-to-people 
exchanges  and  establishes  surveillance  measures  for 
the rest of visitors from that country.
During the past few weeks, President Trump has on 
four different occasions reiterated that his Government 
will  not  lift  the  embargo  against  Cuba  unless  Cuba 
introduces  changes  in  its  domestic  order.  Today  we 
reaffirm  that  Cuba  will  never  agree  to  conditions 
or  impositions.  We  remind  the  President  and  his 
Ambassador that that approach, which was used by 10 
or so of his predecessors, has never worked and never 
17-35800
21/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
will.  He  will  be  one  more  in  the  account  of  a  policy 
anchored in the past.
More  recently,  under  the  pretext  of  ailments 
affecting  some  diplomats  in  Havana,  without  the 
slightest  evidence  of  their  cause  or  origin  —  they 
lie  when  they  talk  about  attacks  or  incidents  —  or 
without  any  conclusions  from  ongoing  investigations, 
the Government of the United States has adopted new 
political measures against Cuba, which further tighten 
the embargo and affect bilateral relations as a whole.
Among those measures, he suspended the issuing 
of  immigrant  and  travelers’  visas  in  the  Consulate 
in  Havana,  which  prejudices  the  rights  of  citizens  to 
travel freely and visit the country for short periods, as 
more than 163,000 Cubans have done this year. It also 
seriously  hampers  the  family  reunification  of  others 
under  the  bilateral  agreement  to  issue  no  fewer  than 
20,000  immigrant  visas  every  year.  The  requirement 
that  travellers  have  face-to-face  interviews  at  United 
States Consulates in third countries and for immigrants 
at  the  United  States  Consular  Section  in  Bogotá  will 
enormously increase the red tape and make it unviable 
for many people. We did not hear about their rights in 
the speeches of the United States.
One  can  in  no  way  justify  the  harm  caused  to 
people  and  their  families  in  order  to  pursue  political 
objectives that are against Cuba’s constitutional order. 
The United States Government, with the political goal 
of restricting travel and harming international tourism 
to Cuba, has also issued an unfounded and mendacious 
warning to United States citizens to prevent them from 
visiting our country.
By  the  unjustified  expulsion  of  the  Cuban  staff 
working at our Consulate General in Washington, D.C. 
—  the  only  one  in  the  United  States  —  they  have 
seriously  impaired  its  ability  to  provide  services  to 
American travellers and especially to Cubans residents 
here,  who  have  the  absolute  right  to  visit  and  enjoy 
normal relations with their nation.
Likewise,  the  staff  of  our  Embassy  has  been 
arbitrarily  and  groundlessly  reduced,  which  has  led, 
among  other  consequences,  to  the  dismantling  of  its 
Economic-Commercial  Office,  with 
the  perverse 
political purpose of impeding the United States business 
sector,  which  is  genuinely  interested  in  exploring  the 
business  opportunities  in  Cuba  that  still  exist  within 
the restrictive framework of the embargo regulations.
It is no surprise, having heard what the Ambassador 
said here, and earlier her leaders, that the President of 
the United States ignores the unanimous international 
support  for  the  bilateral  progress,  now  reversed,  and 
the  similar  demand  for  the  immediate,  absolute  and 
unconditional end to the embargo.
As President Raúl Castro Ruz stated on 14 July,
“We reaffirm that any strategy that seeks to destroy 
the  revolution,  whether  through  coercion  and 
pressures, or resort to subtle methods, will fail ... . 
Cuba has the will to continue to negotiate pending 
bilateral  matters  with  the  United  States,  on  the 
basis of equality and respect for the sovereignty and 
independence  of  our  country,  and  to  continue  the 
respectful dialogue and cooperation on matters of 
common interest with the American Government.
“Cuba  and  the  United  States  can  cooperate  and 
coexist, respecting their difference and promoting 
everything 
that  benefits  both  countries  and 
peoples,  but  Cuba  should  not  be  expected  to 
make  concessions  inherent  to  its  sovereignty  and 
independence  ...  or  to  negotiate  its  principles  or 
accept  conditions  of  any  kind,  as  we  have  never 
done so before in the history of the revolution”.
Today,  for  the  twenty-sixth  consecutive  time, 
Cuba is presenting to the General Assembly the draft 
resolution (A/72/L.2) entitled “Necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba”. At the 
present time, that text has special relevance, given the 
setback from the actions taken by the new United States 
Administration against Cuba.
The  embargo  is  the  greatest  impediment  to  the 
economic and social development of our country and to 
the implementation of the national plan in accordance 
with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
It  is  the  main  obstacle  to  the  development  of  Cuba’s 
economic, commercial and financial relations with the 
United  States  and  the  rest  of  the  world.  According  to 
figures very carefully calculated by Cuban institutions, 
between April 2016 and April 2017 the embargo caused 
losses to the Cuban economy in the order of $4.3 billion. 
That figure is about twice as much as what would be 
needed  in  terms  of  annual  direct  foreign  investment 
for 
to  move  substantially 
towards development.
the  Cuban  economy 
22/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
The  accumulated  losses  amount  to  the  enormous 
figure  of  $822.28  billion,  taking  into  account  the 
devaluation  of  the  price  of  gold.  At  current  prices, 
that figure is equivalent to $130.2 brillion. Dozens of 
banks in third countries have been affected in the latest 
period  by  the  extreme  and  tenacious  persecution  of 
Cuban financial transactions. The embargo is contrary 
to international law, and its aggressive extraterritorial 
application harms the sovereignty of all States. It also 
damages  economic  and  business  interests  throughout 
the world.
The  United  States  Ambassador  failed  to  mention 
that the embargo is a flagrant, massive and systematic 
violation  of  the  human  rights  of  all  Cubans,  men  and 
women.  Under  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 1948, it can be 
defined as an act of genocide. It is also an obstacle to 
the international cooperation that Cuba offers in terms 
of its humanitarian aid to 81 countries in the South. The 
human damages caused by the application of that policy 
are  incalculable.  There  is  no  Cuban  family  or  social 
service in Cuba that does not suffer the privations and 
consequences of the blockade. Cuban emigration also 
faces discrimination and prejudice.
Over the past year, the Cuban company that imports 
and  exports  medical  products,  Medicuba  S.A.,  made 
requests to 18 United States companies to buy supplies 
that were either refused or never responded to. Others, 
such as the United States corporation Promega, which 
is recognized for the development of diagnostic kits to 
determine the viral load in patients with HIV/AIDS, the 
hepatitis C virus or kidney disease, refused in June to 
sell its products to Medicuba, alleging that the Treasury 
Department  maintained  commercial  sanctions  that 
prohibited the sale of its products to the island.
On that same date, and with the same argument, the 
company New England Biolabs refused to supply Cuba 
with its products. It sells a wide range of enzymes, such 
as proteinase-K, a reagent that enables the diagnosis of 
viral diseases like dengue, Zika and chikungunya, and 
other enzymes that have multiple uses for the diagnosis 
of congenital malformations and the determination of 
compatibility  between  organ  donors  and  patients  in 
need  of  kidney,  bone  marrow  and  liver  transplants, 
among others. Under that same argument, the company 
refused  to  provide  to  Cuba  supplies  of  an  entirely 
humanitarian nature.
In April, Radiopharma, a business of the German 
supplier Eckert & Ziegler, refused to supply Medicuba 
with  the  GalliaPharm  68Ge/68Ga  pharmacy  grade 
generator with its components, which is equipment that 
is used in the diagnosis of prostate cancer. According to 
the company, it was not possible to supply the product 
directly to Cuba, nor through a third country, because 
of the embargo.
The cardiology service of the Hermanos Ameijeiras 
clinical  surgical  hospital  urgently  needs  a  circulatory 
assistance  device  to  treat  cardiogenic  shock  and  for 
interventional  cardiology  and  electro-physiology, 
which  facilitates  recovery  from  heart  failure  and  the 
prolongation  of  the  patient’s  life.  The  United  States 
company  Abiomed,  a  leader  in  the  global  market  in 
those products, has the Impella system, which is ideal 
for  treating  such  conditions.  In  September  2016  and 
this  February,  Medicuba  contacted  it  to  discuss  the 
possibility  of  incorporating  its  product  into  Cuba’s 
health system; however, it has so far refused to respond.
  We  are  deeply  grateful  to  all  the  Governments, 
peoples,  parliaments,  political  parties  and  social 
movements, 
and 
international  and  regional  organizations  that  have 
contributed  their  voices  and  votes,  year  after  year,  to 
support the justness and urgency of the abolition of the 
embargo. We also convey our sincere gratitude to the 
vast majority of the American people for their support 
for this praiseworthy cause.
representatives 
civil-society 
It  offends  the  conscience  of  humankind  that 
the  Ambassador  of  the  United  States  has  referred 
to  the  Bolivarian  Government  of  Venezuela  in  an 
unacceptable  and  interfering  manner.  It  offends  the 
heroic  people  of  Venezuela,  its  civil-military  union 
and  the  Bolivarian  and  Chavista  Government  led  by 
President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros.  The  United  States 
Government lies when it declares that Venezuela poses 
a threat to its national security. It is curious, given that 
it has the largest certified hydrocarbon reserves in the 
world. As the liberator Simón Bolívar wrote, the United 
States seems to be destined by Providence to plague the 
Americas with misery in the name of liberty. I respond 
to the Ambassador with Bolívar’s words.
We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  fair  and  constitutional 
electoral process in Cuba, where votes are not bought, 
special interests do not prevail and dishonest campaigns 
do not demand money. In our elections, the will of the 
17-35800
23/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
voters  is  not  manipulated,  and  division  and  hate  is 
not spread.
We  especially  commend  all  those  who  have 
expressed  their  concern  and  rejection  of  the  coercive 
measures  announced  by  the  current  United  States 
Government.  The  Cuban  people  will  never  cease  in 
their efforts to build a sovereign, independent, socialist, 
democratic, prosperous and sustainable nation. We will 
persist with the consensus of our people and especially 
the  patriotic  commitment  of  the  youngest  Cubans 
in  the  anti-imperialist  struggle  and  in  defence  of  our 
independence, for which tens of thousands of Cubans 
have  already  fallen,  and  we  have  taken  the  greatest 
risks, as we demonstrated in Playa Girón and in the face 
of all threats. We will be eternally loyal to the legacy of 
José Martí and Fidel Castro Ruz.
Our people are following this debate with hope. On 
behalf of them, I ask those present to vote in favour of 
draft resolution A/72/L.2, on the necessity of ending the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America against Cuba.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We shall 
now proceed to consider draft resolution A/72/L.2.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the voting, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  should  be  limited  to  10  minutes 
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms. Sison (United States of America): The United 
States believes that the people of Cuba deserve a stable, 
prosperous  and  democratic  country.  We  strongly 
support  their  right  to  freely  determine  their  own 
future. It is the Cuban Government and not the United 
States  that  continues  to  deprive  the  Cuban  people  of 
this  aspiration.  Our  sanctions  against  Cuba  are  just 
one part of our overall effort to help all in Cuba freely 
exercise their human rights and fundamental freedoms 
and choose their own destiny. For that reason, we shall 
vote  against  and  strongly  oppose  the  draft  resolution 
contained in document A/72/L.2.
policy,  the  Cuban  economy  will  not  thrive  until  the 
Cuban Government allows a free labour market, fully 
empowers  Cuban  entrepreneurs,  respects  intellectual 
property rights, allows unfettered access to information 
via the Internet, opens its State monopolies to private 
competition, and adopts sound macroeconomic policies.
The  United  States  remains  a  deep  and  abiding 
friend  of  the  Cuban  people.  Our  policy  emphasizes 
advancing  human  rights  and  democracy  on  the  island 
while ensuring that our engagement benefits the Cuban 
people  and  not  their  dictatorial  regime.  Our  policy 
focuses  on  engagement  with  the  Cuban  people  so  as 
to give them the support and tools they need to move 
forward  independently  of  the  obstacles  imposed  by 
their own Government.
The United States continues to call on the Cuban 
Government  to  allow  the  people  in  Cuba  to  enjoy 
political and economic freedom. The Cuban Government 
continues its tactics of politically motivated detentions, 
harassment  and  police  violence  against  those  who 
peacefully  seek  freedom  for  political  prisoners  and 
who advocate on behalf of positive political and social 
change. These practices fly in the face of the freedoms 
of expression and peaceful assembly guaranteed in the 
Cuban Constitution.
This draft resolution is a distraction from the real 
problems facing the Cuban people. Therefore, the United 
States  strongly  opposes  it.  Even  if  the  United  States 
lifted  the  embargo  today,  Cubans  would  not  be  able 
to  realize  their  potential  without  significant  political, 
economic and social reforms by their own Government. 
We encourage this body to support the desire of all in 
Cuba  to  determine  their  own  future  and  enjoy  their 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  Doing  so 
would advance the principles enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations and the purposes for which the 
United Nations was created. The Cuban people deserve 
no less, and the United States will continue to pursue 
policies  that  aid  them  in  their  quest  for  real  freedom 
and democracy.
Every year, the Cuban Government uses this draft 
resolution to identify the United States as its scapegoat 
in  order  to  shift  blame  away  from  its  own  policy 
failures.  The  Cuban  Government  continues  to  isolate 
the  Cuban  people  while  disingenuously  blaming  the 
embargo.  In  fact,  Cuba  currently  has  one  of  the  most 
restrictive economies in the world as a direct result of 
its Government’s policies. Irrespective of United States 
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  We  thank  our  brother,  Comrade  Bruno 
Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, for his words, which always reach the 
hearts of the peoples of the world. We thank our sister 
delegation of Cuba for being here with us today and for 
sharing the information that confirms once again that 
the human rights of an entire people are being violated 
24/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
by  the  economic,  financial  and  commercial  blockade 
against  Cuba.  Today  we  confirm  our  support  for  and 
solidarity and deep friendship with the people of José 
Martí and Fidel and Raúl Castro Ruz.
Fifty-eight  years  after  the  triumph  of  the  Cuban 
Revolution  led  by  Fidel,  and  almost  one  year  after 
his  passing,  we  feel  his  absence  deeply.  However,  his 
historical  legacy  continues  to  grow  among  us  and 
is  enhanced  by  all  his  teachings  in  the  struggle  for 
freedom,  dignity  and  the  restitution  of  rights  to  the 
peoples of Latin America, the Caribbean and the world. 
We  also  want  to  express  our  thoughts,  prayers  and 
solidarity with all the Cuban brothers affected by the 
passage of Hurricane Irma.
For  almost  60  years  the  Cuban  people  have 
demonstrated an iron will in the face of the imposition 
of  the  dishonourable  United  States  law  establishing 
the blockade, whose objective is to destroy the tenets 
of  the  Cuban  Revolution  and  hinder  the  progress  of 
a  whole  nation.  Cuba,  our  sister,  remains  the  symbol 
of humanism and an example of solidarity and social, 
cultural and scientific development in the world. Cuba 
stands with its head held high, defending its sovereignty, 
self-determination  and  its  socialist  revolution.  As  our 
President,  Commander  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra,  says, 
there  is  Cuba,  firm,  unwavering,  unbreakable.  The 
determination  of  Cuba  has  led  the  General  Assembly 
to  vote  almost  unanimously  for  the  cessation  of  the 
blockade, yet the blockade continues, and the positive 
steps  taken  by  President  Obama  to  ease  tensions 
between the United States and Cuba and to normalize 
relations  between  both  countries  have,  unfortunately, 
been reversed.
We  applaud  the  statement  of  the  Government  of 
Cuba,  which  reiterates  its  willingness  to  continue  the 
respectful  dialogue  on  and  cooperation  in  matters  of 
mutual  interest,  as  well  as  the  negotiation  of  pending 
bilateral  matters  with  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  of  America.  We  hope  that,  as  the  Government 
of Cuba clearly states in its message, the United States 
will  return  to  the  path  that  former  President  Obama 
identified  —  a  decisive  forward  movement  on  the 
lifting of the blockade against Cuba.
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  demand  that 
the  United  States  Government  put  an  immediate  end 
once  and  for  all  to  the  blockade  against  Cuba,  that  it 
return to the Cuban people their legitimate territory of 
Guantánamo and that it accept the will of our peoples 
to  live  in  peace,  without  interference,  with  friendly 
relations and mutual respect among all our nations.
I wish to conclude with the words of our President, 
Daniel Ortega Saavedra, who has said that the day will 
come when the blockade imposed by the empire against 
Cuba  will  be  defeated  by  a  multipolar  world,  when  a 
unified  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  has  already 
determined to put an end to the blockade, and when the 
vast  majority  of  the  peoples  of  our  planet  vote  every 
year — as they will today — for the United Nations to 
demand an end to this blockade. Therefore, Nicaragua 
will  vote,  as  it  always  has,  and  with  much  pride,  in 
favour  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.2,  submitted  by  the 
delegation of Cuba.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  before 
the voting.
The General Assembly will now take a decision on 
draft resolution A/72/L.2, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
17-35800
25/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel, United States of America
Draft  resolution  was  adopted  by  191  votes  to  2, 
with no abstentions (resolution 72/4).
The Acting President  (spoke in Spanish):  Before 
giving the floor for explanations of vote, may I remind 
delegations that explanations of vote should be limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Ms.  Lind  (Estonia):  Before 
to  our 
explanation of vote, I would like to add our voice to the 
condemnations of the terrorist attack that took place in 
New York on 31 October. Our thoughts are with all of 
those who have been affected.
turning 
the  European  Free  Trade  Association,  Liechtenstein, 
which  is  a  member  of  the  European  Economic  Area, 
align themselves with my statement.
The economic, commercial, and financial embargo 
imposed by the United States on Cuba has a damaging 
impact  on  the  economic  situation  of  the  country  and 
negatively  affects  the  living  standards  of  the  Cuban 
people.  The  recovery  and  reconstruction  after  the 
devastation  wrought  by  Hurricane  Irma  this  autumn 
could  also  be  hampered.  External  trade  and  foreign 
investment will play a crucial role in setting the country 
on  a  path  towards  sustainable  growth.  Therefore,  the 
EU considers that lifting the embargo could facilitate 
the opening of the Cuban economy to the benefit of the 
Cuban people.
The  EU  believes  that  positive  change  in  Cuba 
is  best  brought  about  by  closer  engagement  at  all 
levels — Government, economy and civil society, and 
also through people-to-people exchanges. We therefore 
deeply regret that the new United States Administration 
has announced its intention to reintroduce restrictions 
on the country’s relations with Cuba. The proposals to 
restrain individual self-directed travel would not only 
curtail the possibility for engagement with the Cuban 
people,  but  they  would  also  hit  Cuba’s  burgeoning 
private sector, which has benefited the most from such 
visits by individuals.
Beyond  the  damaging  impact  of  the  embargo  on 
ordinary  Cubans,  unilateral  sanctions  by  the  United 
States,  together  with  other  unilateral  administrative 
and  judicial  measures,  are  also  negatively  affecting 
the  economic  interests  of  the  EU.  We  have  firmly 
and  continuously  opposed  any  such  measures,  due  to 
their extraterritorial impact on the European Union, in 
violation of commonly accepted rules of international 
trade.  We  cannot  accept  that  unilaterally  imposed 
measures might impede our economic and commercial 
relations  with  Cuba.  The  EU  Council  of  Ministers 
therefore  adopted  a  regulation  and  a  joint  action  to 
protect  against  undue 
interference  and  problems 
for  EU  citizens,  businesses  and  non-governmental 
organizations residing, working or operating in Cuba.
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the European 
Union  (EU)  and  its  member  States.  The  candidate 
countries the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidate Bosnia and Herzegovina; and the country of 
It is crucial that the United States continue to fully 
respect  and  implement  the  agreement  reached  at  the 
summit  between  the  European  Union  and  the  United 
States  held  in  London  in  May  1998.  That  agreement 
covers waivers to Titles III and IV of the Helms-Burton 
Act,  a  commitment  by  the  United  States  Government 
26/28 
17-35800
01/11/2017 
A/72/PV.38
to resist future extraterritorial legislation of that kind 
and  an  understanding  regarding  discipline  for  the 
strengthening of investment protection.
For the EU, opening doors and closer engagement 
are the way to go with Cuba. Today, we celebrate the 
start  of  the  provisional  application  of  the  EU-Cuba 
Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement, which 
was signed last year. It will put our bilateral relationship 
on a new and solid legal footing and sets out an agenda 
of critical engagement with Cuba that will also allow us 
to support and assist Cuba on its path towards reform 
and modernization.
We will also enhance dialogue and cooperation on 
issues on which we still have fundamental differences. 
To  this  end,  the  Political  Dialogue  and  Cooperation 
Agreement  establishes  a  human  rights  dialogue  as 
a  key  pillar  of  our  relationship.  We  reiterate  our  call 
on  the  Cuban  Government  to  fully  grant  its  citizens 
internationally recognized civil, political and economic 
rights  and  freedoms,  including  freedom  of  assembly, 
freedom of expression and free access to information, to 
ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights, and, following the visit of 
the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Trafficking 
in  Persons,  extend  invitations  to  other  rapporteurs  to 
visit Cuba.
In  contrast  with  Cuban  achievements  in  health 
care  and  education,  the  slow  progress  of  economic 
modernization  seriously  hampers  Cuban  economic 
development.  In  this  context,  we  call  for  economic 
and  social  reforms  to  be  extended  and  implemented 
in a manner that will address the key concerns of the 
Cuban population.
With 
the  EU-Cuba  Political  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation Agreement, the EU offers Cuba a consistent 
and  reliable  partnership  to  support  it  as  it  seeks 
economic and social reforms, sustainable development 
and common solutions to global challenges, while the 
EU  continues  to  promote  democracy  and  respect  for 
human rights. It is our considered view that the United 
States  embargo  does  nothing  to  promote  those  aims, 
but,  instead,  impedes  their  achievement.  Against  this 
background, the member States of the European Union 
unanimously voted in favour of resolution 72/4.
Mr. Kim In Ryong (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  72/4, 
entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba”, based on the principled stand of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the Group 
of  77.  My  delegation  condemns  the  embargo  imposed 
by the United States against Cuba as an infringement 
of  Cuba’s  sovereignty  under  the  terms  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations and as a crime against humanity, 
human rights and civilization.
Each  year  for  the  past  25  years,  since  1992,  a 
resolution  has  been  adopted  opposing  the  economic 
embargo against Cuba, but the United States has turned 
a  blind  eye  to  its  implementation.  Today’s  resolution 
was adopted with all Member States voting in favour, 
except  for  the  United  States  and  Israel,  which  clearly 
shows the view shared by the international community, 
namely, that it opposes the economic embargo against 
Cuba.  Mr.  Trump’s  Administration’s  new  anti-Cuban 
policies are the continuation of the failed United States 
policy of embargo against Cuba that have been in effect 
since  the  Republic  of  Cuba  came  into  existence.  It 
threatens the sovereignty and right to existence of the 
people and the Government of Cuba. It also hinders the 
normal development of the region.
Reality shows the hypocrisy of the United States, 
which  is  a  country  calling  for  the  implementation  of 
United Nations resolutions and clamouring for the rule 
of law and democracy in the world while implementing 
an  arbitrary,  high-handed  and  arrogant  America  First 
policy that gives greater value to United States federal 
law than to the Charter of the United Nations, thereby 
sacrificing  others  as  it  pursues  its  own  interests. 
However, as in the past, the General Assembly adopted 
resolution  72/4  by  an  overwhelming  majority,  thus 
demonstrating  its  support  for  and  solidarity  with  the 
Cuban  Government  and  the  Cuban  people’s  struggle 
for their righteous cause. It also shows the international 
community’s condemnation of the America First policy.
The  United  States  has  manipulated  the  Security 
Council to denounce the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea’s  nuclear  tests  and  ballistic-missile  and 
satellite  launches  as  a  threat  to  international  peace 
and security. Its rigged sanctions resolutions have only 
pushed the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to 
become  a  full-fledged  nuclear  and  missile  Power  that 
is  recognized  as  such  by  the  entire  world.  Similarly, 
the  United  States’  economic  sanctions  against  Cuba 
17-35800
27/28
A/72/PV.38 
01/11/2017
will  only  impel  the  Cuban  people  to  build  a  more 
powerful Cuba.
achieve unity and cooperation in the region in the face 
of the unilateral sanctions of the United States.
My delegation takes this opportunity once again to 
express  its  strong  support  for  and  solidarity  with  the 
Government and the people of Cuba, who are fighting 
to defend their national dignity and sovereignty and to 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  for  this 
meeting.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
28/28 
17-35800
