United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
56th plenary meeting
Monday, 20 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 39
The situation in Afghanistan
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/72/312 and 
A/72/392)
Draft resolution (A/72/L.8)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Germany to introduce draft resolution 
A/72/L.8.
Mr.  Heusgen  (Germany):  It  is  my  great  pleasure 
to introduce the draft resolution entitled “The situation 
in  Afghanistan”  (A/72/L.8).  This  draft  resolution  has 
a long history in the General Assembly, it having first 
been  adopted  in  1980.  Every  year  since  then,  in  the 
draft resolution the General Assembly has reflected the 
developments  in  the  country,  the  situation,  the  crisis, 
the international community’s support for Afghanistan, 
and the fate of the Afghan people.
Germany  has  facilitated,  and  been  the  penholder 
for, the draft resolution since 2002, the year in which 
the International Conference on Afghanistan was held 
at  the  Hotel  Petersberg  in  Bonn,  setting  a  milestone 
in the history of the country. Last year we completely 
overhauled 
incorporating 
recent  developments  and  reflecting  the  international 
community’s  support  for  the  country.  This  year  we 
updated  the  draft  resolution,  which  involved  rather 
difficult negotiations. At this stage, I would also like to 
pay tribute to all members of the General Assembly that 
resolution, 
the 
draft 
actively tried to reach consensus. It has been hard work, 
and I thank all of those involved.
Divergences among delegations persisted until the 
end of consultations. That is why the German penholder 
decided  to  make  a  proposal  designed  to  achieve 
compromise  among  the  diverging  points  of  view.  In 
the discussions following the presentation, we actually 
managed to reach an agreement, which was endorsed by 
a silent procedure.
As  a  result  of  the  foregoing  discussions,  in 
my  capacity  as  facilitator,  I  would  like  to  ask  you, 
Mr.  President,  that  the  word  “dialogue”  be  added 
after the word “Moscow” in paragraph 22 of the draft 
resolution. In addition, I would like to make a technical 
revision to the text: in paragraph 56, the word “must” 
should be replaced with the word “shall”. This change 
corrects  a  technical  error  that  occurred  during  the 
editing  process;  it  brings  the  text  back  into  line  with 
what was agreed on by Member States.
Having overcome the divergences on what I would 
call minor issues, I would like to recall the substance 
and  meaning  of  the  draft  resolution.  It  is  meant,  first 
and  foremost,  as  an  expression  of  unified  support  for 
Afghanistan and its people by the entire membership of 
the United Nations. I would like to express gratitude for 
the fact that discussions have ended and that we have 
been able to demonstrate today this unified support.
Turning  to  the  substance  of  the  draft  resolution, 
our pre-eminent concern with respect to Afghanistan, 
which  is  also  one  of  the  most  important  points  of  the 
draft  resolution,  is  security.  In  the  past  year,  illegal 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-39043 (E)
*1739043*
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
armed groups have carried out a number of high-profile 
attacks,  which  have  taken  a  heavy  toll  on  innocent 
civilians  in  the  country.  I  would  like  to  take  the 
opportunity of the presence of the Chief Executive of 
Afghanistan, Mr. Abdullah, to convey to him our deep 
condolences for the Afghan lives that have been lost to 
terrorism and violence. I would especially mention the 
despicable  acts  of  violence,  including  attacks  against 
Shia mosques and other attacks, which have sought to 
divide Afghanistan and its people on social, ethnic and 
religious grounds.
The international community, which has also been 
hit by terrorist attacks, is trying to help Afghanistan and 
its people. We strongly condemn all of those attacks and 
wish  to  mention  in  particular  the  devastating  suicide 
attack that took place in front of the German Embassy 
on 31 May. I would pay particular tribute to the Afghan 
security  forces  for  the  sacrifices  they  have  made. 
Together  with  our  partners,  Germany  will  continue 
to  support  Afghanistan.  NATO  will  also  continue  to 
support the country with the Resolute Support Mission 
and  will  try  to  re-establish  peace  and  stability  there. 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  commitment  and 
conditions-based approach that forms the substance of 
the new Afghanistan strategies of the European Union 
and of the United States.
Three  things  are  needed  to  improve  the  situation 
in  Afghanistan:  first,  support  for  the  security  sector; 
secondly,  support  for  civilian  development;  and, 
thirdly,  diplomatic  efforts  aimed  at  addressing  the 
political situation.
An inclusive Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace 
process involving the Government of Afghanistan and 
the  Taliban  is  the  only  way  to  achieve  a  sustainable 
resolution  of  the  conflict.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
strategic  plan  for  peace  and  reconciliation  that  was 
presented by the Afghanistan High Peace Council, as 
well  as  the  initiation  of  the  Kabul  process  on  6  June, 
with the aim of ensuring unified and close coordination 
of  efforts  under  the  leadership  and  ownership  of  the 
Afghan  Government.  On  behalf  of  the  international 
community, the draft resolution calls on all parties to 
recognize their responsibility for peace, and it calls in 
particular on the Taliban to enter into direct talks.
The  draft  resolution  welcomes  the  announcement 
of  the  ambitious  plan  to  hold  parliamentary  elections 
next year. We call on the Government to accelerate the 
preparatory work in creating the conditions needed for 
a transparent, credible and inclusive electoral process, 
thereby  strengthening  the  trust  of  the  population  in 
democratic institutions.
We commend the Government of Afghanistan for 
the progress made in its reform agenda, as presented at 
the senior officials meeting in Kabul on 4 and 5 October. 
We are all aware of the persistent challenges, including 
the fight against corruption, which is key, and the need 
for continued and determined progress on political and 
economic reform. We encourage the Government to do 
its utmost to implement those reforms.
In  conclusion,  Germany  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  to  be  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union  later  today.  As  Germany  remains 
committed  to  Afghanistan  and  to  the  Afghan  people, 
we will continue our active engagement in the country.
Mr.  Abdullah  (Afghanistan):  We  thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  convening  today’s  debate  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan.  It  is  my  pleasure  to  be  here 
with my delegation as the General Assembly adopts its 
annual draft resolution on Afghanistan (A/72/L.8). This 
occasion reflects the international community’s strong 
consensus on the imperative of ensuring stability and 
prosperity in my country, and we look forward to the 
emergence of a peaceful regional environment.
excellent 
of 
leadership 
This  year 
the  delegation  of  Germany  again 
demonstrated 
its 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations on the draft resolution 
that will be adopted later today. We thank the Permanent 
Mission  of  Germany  for  its  efforts  in  that  regard, 
and,  more  broadly,  I  express  my  appreciation  to  all 
delegations for contributing to the negotiations process.
Seventy-one  years  ago  yesterday,  Afghanistan 
became  the  fifty-second  Member  of  the  great  family 
that  is  the  United  Nations.  However,  since  the  late 
1970s,  my  country  has  undergone  severe  trauma 
after  suffering  tremendous  loses  caused  by  imposed 
conflicts and in the war against terrorism and violent 
extremism,  which  continue  to  hurt  us.  Despite  the 
hardship, Afghanistan has today regained its status as 
a responsible member of the international community. 
The unanimous adoption of this year’s draft resolution 
will  signal  the  overwhelming  support  of  the  world, 
which is standing behind us as we continue our quest 
for lasting peace and prosperity in Afghanistan.
My presence here today attests to the importance 
that  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Afghanistan 
2/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
attach to the draft resolution and, more specifically, to 
its more focused implementation. We therefore expect 
and request that Member States view the draft resolution 
in  that  way  too.  Despite  the  challenges  confronting 
us,  Afghanistan  stands  resilient  and  confident  in  its 
stance  at  home  and  abroad.  We  are  a  nation  firmly 
committed  to  the  ideals  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and the vision of a global landscape anchored 
in peace, sovereignty, mutual respect and cooperation 
for our common benefit. We equally value our bond of 
partnership with the United Nations, which has always 
stood in strong support and solidarity with our nation, 
especially in the most difficult times. Today the United 
Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  all 
the  relevant  United  Nations  agencies  on  the  ground 
continue  to  play  an  important  role  in  helping  us  with 
various  aspects  of  recovery,  rebuilding,  humanitarian 
assistance and the seeking of a peaceful resolution to 
our political and security issues.
We  welcome 
international  community’s  generosity 
the  Secretary-General’s  United 
Nations  reform  initiative  in  the  hope  that  it  will 
expedite  our  realization  of  a  ”One  United  Nations” 
approach  in  Afghanistan.  Today  we  are  reciprocating 
the 
through 
our  active  engagement  and  positive  contributions. 
Afghanistan’s  recent  election  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  first  time  and  its  membership  in  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  its  vice-presidency  of 
the General Assembly, its active involvement in other 
forums  and  the  successful  adoption  of  two  Afghan-
initiated  draft  resolutions  —  on  countering  the  threat 
posed  by  improvised  explosive  devices  and  on  the 
proclamation  of  19  August  as  the  International  Day 
of  Remembrance  of  and  Tribute  to  the  Victims  of 
Terrorism — stand as a testament to our national will, 
diplomatic  efforts  and  eagerness  to  be  an  effective 
contributor to the global good.
Let me now provide an update on the situation in 
Afghanistan.
With regard to security, over the past several months 
our  national  security  forces  have  effectively  thwarted 
efforts by the Taliban working alongside its affiliated 
Haqqani  Network,  elements  of  Al-Qaida,  Da’esh  and 
other recognized terror groups aimed at making notable 
gains  or  capturing  a  major  urban  centre.  We  are  not 
dealing  with  one  but  several  terror  outfits  that  either 
mirror one another under different labels or indirectly 
support  overlapping  agendas.  We  are  grateful  to  all 
international  partners  for  the  contributions  they  have 
made  to  equipping  and  training  our  security  forces, 
which have courageously and at a high cost led the fight 
against  those  terrorist  and  violent  extremist  groups 
threatening us, the region and many others beyond our 
borders.
The draft resolution also reaffirms the importance 
of the international community’s continued support for 
the Afghan National Security Forces. To that end, we 
have adopted new measures to complement and better 
coordinate with the newly announced strategies devised 
by the United States, NATO and the European Union, 
inter  alia,  which  came  as  a  response  to  our  enduring 
request for sustained international support for security 
and stability in Afghanistan — be it military or civilian 
in nature.
We firmly believe that a conditions-based approach 
and  clear  focus  on  resolving  the  problem  of  regional 
terrorist  sanctuaries  and  support  systems  will  bring 
us  closer  to  peace  and  stability.  They  also  form  the 
cornerstone  of  our  new  national  security  strategy  to 
defeat terrorism, work with nations that share our threat 
perception  and  protect  our  people  against  politicized 
violence.  We  have  long  asserted  our  desire  to  have 
friendly  relations  with  all  nations.  We  have  taken 
every opportunity to make it clear through words and 
deeds that we will never allow our relations with any 
single country or group of countries to overshadow or 
adversely affect our relations with others in the region 
or  beyond.  Afghanistan  should  be  seen  as  a  strategic 
asset and a platform of cordiality for all. We consider 
negative  State  rivalries  and  the  use  of  violent  proxy 
forces as counter-productive. There is no such thing as 
a good violent extremist or terrorist. We need to agree 
to  fight  all  forms  and  shades  of  terror.  We  can,  and 
should, no longer harbour or support one group while 
fighting another and claim to be combating terrorism in 
all its dimensions.
This  year’s  draft  resolution  also  recognizes  the 
centrality of Afghanistan’s role in leading peace efforts 
within  the  framework  of  the  Kabul  Process  for  Peace 
and  Security  Cooperation  to  supplement  initiatives 
for  action-oriented  cooperation.  Those  efforts  will 
also be guided by Afghanistan’s High Peace Council’s 
new  strategic  plan,  which  is  centre  upon  a  whole-of-
society  approach  to  promoting  peace.  At  the  regional 
level,  fostering  stable  and  constructive  relations  with 
all our neighbours, especially Pakistan, remains a key 
component  of  our  peace  strategy.  President  Ashraf 
Ghani and I hope that, this time around, action against 
17-39043
3/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
all forms of terrorism will speak louder than words. It 
should  be  noted  that  changing  the  status  quo  will  be 
possible  only  when  terror  subsides,  infringements  on 
our  territory  come  to  a  halt  and  safe  havens  are  shut 
down. Failure to do so will have negative consequences 
and result in further tensions, or worse.
increased  trade  volume  between  our  countries,  while 
major railway projects with China, the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran,  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  and  Tajikistan  are  also 
moving  forward.  All  in  all,  these  mega-projects  hold 
the promise of propelling us and the wider region into a 
new era of economic prosperity.
Through  the  Afghanistan  National  Peace  and 
Development  Framework,  we  have  adopted  concrete 
and systemic measures to implement a reform agenda, 
offer  better  governance  and  strive  towards  achieving 
greater  self-reliance.  Our  economy,  hurt  by  the  2014 
ending  of  the  combat  mission  by  international  forces 
as  a  result  of  our  reliance  upon  large-scale  military 
expenditures, has turned a corner and is showing signs 
of  recovery,  especially  with  regard  to  private-sector 
investment and development.
the 
Since 
formation  of 
the  Government  of 
National  Unity,  domestic  revenue  has  seen  important 
gains,  which  in  turn  have  helped  us  shoulder  more 
responsibility for our security and development needs. 
Moreover,  we  are  making  steady  progress  in  the 
development  of  our  national  infrastructure,  including 
roads, 
telecommunications  and 
transport networks. Once completed, these projects will 
improve connectivity and generate economic growth in 
Afghanistan and our region.
industry,  energy, 
Once  an  ambitious  vision,  the  regional  economic 
cooperation  agenda  is  becoming  reality.  Afghanistan 
is  being  transformed  into  a  hub  for  regional  and 
international  trade,  transit  and  transport.  Energy 
transfer  is  a  major  component  of  this  transformation 
now and will be so in future. I am pleased to highlight 
the  successful  outcome  of 
the  seventh  Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan, 
held  in  Ashgabat,  Turkmenistan,  last  week,  where 
Afghanistan, regional countries and other international 
stakeholders  recommitted  to  the  full  implementation 
of  at  least  18  major  regional  projects,  including  the 
CASA-1000  and  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-
India  energy  and  natural-gas  initiatives,  as  well  as 
the  Chabahar  International  Transport  and  Transit 
Corridor project.
The  recent  historic  signing  of  the  Lapis  Lazuli 
Transit, Trade and Transport Route agreement among 
Afghanistan,  Turkmenistan,  Azerbaijan,  Georgia  and 
Turkey  marks  another  important  development  in  the 
advancement  of  economic  and  cultural  links  in  the 
region.  Additionally,  the  air  corridor  with  India  has 
We in the Government of National Unity recognize 
that  strengthening  good  governance  and  the  rule  of 
law  is  imperative  for  our  stability  and  prosperity.  We 
are making every effort to fulfil the commitments we 
made at the London, Warsaw and Brussels Conferences 
in 2014 and 2016.
for 
The 
Strategy 
living  document  adopted 
Combating 
National 
Corruption  —  a 
in 
September — lays out clear strategies and solutions for 
systemic  reforms  across  Government  institutions  and 
agencies. An example of a system that has seen reform 
is the public civil administration. The Supreme Court, 
the Attorney General’s Office and the Anti-Corruption 
Justice Centre have so far tried more than 1,000 cases 
of corruption, bribery and abuse of authority, including 
by senior-ranking officials. We have made clear to our 
people and our international partners that the principle 
of accountability will not be compromised at any cost. 
In  the  area  of  fiscal  sustainability,  we  have  improved 
our  financial  systems  to  the  point  where  they  have 
been  declared  to  be  in  conformity  with  international 
standards. Our efforts in the areas of the rule of law and 
governance will continue as a matter of priority.
Prevailing  insecurity  has  also  led  to  an  increase 
in  drug  production  in  some  parts  of  the  country.  The 
dangerous nexus between terrorism and narcotic drugs 
therefore demands a more focused and collective effort 
from within the region and beyond.
The  full  participation  of  women  in  sociopolitical 
processes  and  the  economy  remains  a  core  priority, 
in  line  with  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000). 
Today,  Afghan  women  proudly  represent  our  country 
in all spheres. I would especially like to thank the more 
than  8,500  women  who  are  serving  in  our  security 
forces. Their contribution and sacrifice are helping us 
deal with cases of criminality, violence and abuse.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  most  important  aspect  of  political 
stability:  learning  from  the  past  and  ensuring  free, 
fair  and  transparent  elections.  We  are  in  preparation 
mode,  working  alongside  the  Independent  Election 
the 
Commission, 
to  bring  necessary  reforms 
to 
4/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
electoral process so that public participation and trust 
in  it  are  restored.  This  is  a  critical  pledge.  We  are 
committed to holding parliamentary elections in 2018, 
followed by presidential elections in 2019. We thank the 
United Nations and all other partners for their help in 
this regard.
To conclude, I can say with utmost confidence that 
the contributions, investments and joint sacrifices made 
in the past 17 years have made a tremendous difference. 
From  a  domestic  standpoint,  the  notable  gains  made 
across  various  sectors  have  had  a  profound  impact  in 
improving  the  lives  of  ordinary  Afghans  throughout 
our  country.  Our  civil  society  is  vibrant,  our  free 
media  is  functioning,  providing  checks  and  balances 
to  the  system,  and  our  growing  youth  population  is 
less inclined than before to leave the country, as young 
people  see  opportunities  and  prospects  at  home.  Just 
two days ago, our Under-19 national cricket team won 
the Asia Cup in Malaysia.
All  in  all,  we  are  committed  to  continuing  this 
journey based on the wishes of the Afghan people and 
enjoying  the  support  of  the  international  community. 
Once again, with security being a vital priority for us 
and with so many across our region and beyond being 
affected by insecurity at this important juncture, let us 
reinvigorate the spirit of international partnership and 
effective engagement in which the global fight against 
terrorism  began  17  years  ago.  Doing  so  provides  the 
best  guarantee  for  the  security  and  prosperity  of  all 
our nations.
The President: I give the floor to the observer of 
the European Union.
Mr. Dvořák (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
this statement.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Chief  Executive  of 
Afghanistan, Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, for his statement. 
I  also  thank  all  the  delegations  that  have  participated 
in the consultations on the draft resolution (A/72/L.8), 
particularly  the  German  team  for  so  ably  facilitating 
the  negotiations  thereon.  We  are  once  again  looking 
forward to adoption of the draft resolution by consensus.
the 
international 
More than a year ago, at the Brussels Conference 
community 
on  Afghanistan, 
confirmed 
its  substantial  political  and  financial 
support  for  Afghanistan.  To  recall,  the  international 
community  pledged  $15  billion  until  2020,  out  of 
which  the  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
would  contribute  $5  billion.  This  pledge  was  made 
against  a  comprehensive  and  detailed  Afghan  reform 
programme presented during the Conference. Now, one 
year later, we can see progress in a number of areas, but 
major  challenges  remain.  In  addition,  the  challenging 
security  situation  in  the  country  has  made  our  work 
more difficult.
On behalf of the European Union and its member 
States, I would like to underline that we have delivered 
on  our  commitments.  On  16  October,  the  Ministers 
for Foreign Affairs of the EU member States approved 
a  new  European  Union  strategy  on  Afghanistan, 
reconfirming  the  long-term  commitment  of  the  EU 
and  its  member  States  to  promoting  peace,  stability 
and  prosperity  in  Afghanistan  and  to  support  its 
sustainable development. The new EU strategy focuses 
on four priority areas critical to achieving progress in 
Afghanistan:  promoting  peace,  stability  and  regional 
security;  reinforcing  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and 
human  rights  and  promoting  good  governance  and 
women’s  empowerment;  supporting  economic  and 
human development; and addressing challenges related 
to migration.
In  recent  years,  Afghanistan  has  been  confronted 
with a number of challenges that threaten the progress 
made  in  its  economic  and  social  development  and  its 
democratic institutions. The European Union recognizes 
that  the  country’s  delicate  security  situation  and  the 
fragile economic state of affairs, combined with a clear 
determination on the part of the Afghan authorities to 
implement much-needed reforms, necessitates renewed 
attention from the international community.
The  new  strategy  is  the  latest  illustration  of  the 
European  Union’s  strong  engagement  in  and  firm 
commitment  to  Afghanistan.  Notably,  it  follows  the 
Brussels  Conference  on  Afghanistan,  the  signing 
in  February  of  a  new  EU-Afghanistan  Cooperation 
Agreement  on  Partnership  and  Development,  and 
the  appointment  in  June  of  an  EU  Special  Envoy 
to  Afghanistan.  The  EU-Afghanistan  Cooperation 
Agreement on Partnership and Development represents 
the  first 
legal  framework  governing  cooperation 
between  the  EU  and  Afghanistan.  The  provisional 
17-39043
5/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
application  of  the  Cooperation  Agreement  will  allow 
us to strengthen our existing dialogue and explore new 
areas  of  cooperation.  A  joint  committee  will  ensure 
the  Agreement’s  proper  functioning  by  overseeing  its 
implementation. Two special working groups will also 
be  created  in  order  to  deepen  the  sectoral  dialogue 
on  human  rights,  good  governance,  migration  and 
economic and social development.
Peace  in  Afghanistan  will  benefit  not  only  all 
Afghans, but also the entire region and the international 
community as a whole. This was also a key message of 
the Brussels Conference last year and is the focus of the 
new EU strategy. Security and sustainable development 
are  interconnected  challenges  in  a  State-building 
process  that  needs  to  be  underpinned  by  genuine 
political  support  from  the  region.  The  EU  urges  all 
regional  stakeholders 
to  cooperate  constructively 
in  order  to  promote  a  genuine  and  results-oriented 
negotiation  process  without  preconditions  aimed  at 
creating a lasting settlement between the parties to the 
conflict. Such a settlement will provide the foundation 
for peace, security and prosperity in Afghanistan and 
the wider region.
The  European  Union  remains  fully  committed  to 
supporting  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace 
process. Such a process must include all Afghan men 
and  women,  protect  their  legitimate  interests  and 
preserve  Afghanistan’s  unity,  sovereignty,  territorial 
integrity  and  the  equal  rights  of  all  Afghans  under 
the  Constitution  of  Afghanistan.  Furthermore,  the 
EU supports the Kabul Process on Peace and Security 
Cooperation and other international efforts to establish 
a  genuine  Afghan  peace  and  reconciliation  process. 
The  Kabul  Process  is  expected  to  encourage  further 
discussions  among  Afghanistan  and  its  neighbouring 
countries  so  as  to  increase  regional  cooperation  for 
peace and stability.
We particularly encourage the Afghan Government 
to  engage  in  a  political  process  with  the  Taliban  and 
other  Afghan  opposition  groups  in  order  to  reach 
a  lasting  political  settlement.  We  also  welcome  all 
initiatives  to  create  an  environment  conducive  to  the 
success of this process and call on all parties to engage 
in constructive solutions.
The  EU  is  alarmed  by  the  high  level  of  violence 
and large number of civilian casualties in Afghanistan, 
including  women  and  children.  Improving  security 
remains fundamental for stability and development in 
Afghanistan. The EU is committed to working with the 
country to combat terrorism, the financing of terrorism 
and  terrorist  threats  in  all  their  forms,  and  to  step 
up  dialogue  and  cooperation  to  prevent  and  counter 
violent extremism, radicalization and recruitment and 
address their root causes. The EU welcomes the Afghan 
Government’s four-year security-sector reform plan and 
commends the efforts made in support of a sufficient 
and increasingly sustainable Afghan National Defence 
and  Security  Forces,  as  endorsed  by  Afghanistan  and 
countries contributing to the Resolute Support Mission 
at the NATO Warsaw Summit in July 2016.
The EU welcomed the announcement of the Afghan 
parliamentary  and  district  council  elections  for  2018. 
Our expectation is that they will be held in an inclusive, 
transparent  and  credible  manner.  But  for  that  to  be 
possible, key decisions on electoral reforms need to be 
taken as a matter of urgency. The EU followed closely 
all developments on elections, in coordination with the 
international  community.  We  will  remain  committed 
to  supporting  the  Afghan  electoral  process  and  the 
right  of  Afghan  citizens  to  exercise  their  civic  and 
democratic rights.
Human  rights  is  an  area  of  high  importance  in 
the  EU-Afghanistan  dialogue.  On  14  August,  the 
EU,  together  with  member  States  and  the  Afghan 
Government,  organized 
third  EU-Afghanistan 
high-level meeting on human rights, taking stock of the 
progress made so far and looking forward to the future 
and  to  addressing  the  many  challenges  that  still  exist 
on the ground.
the 
In its actions, the EU puts a particular emphasis on 
women’s empowerment, education for girls and fighting 
violence against women, and we encourage the Afghan 
Government  to  make  further  efforts  in  these  areas. 
The EU supports the implementation of Afghanistan’s 
national  action  plan  on  women,  peace  and  security, 
created  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000), with projects and actions in several provinces. 
The  fourth  Kabul  Symposium  on  Afghan  women, 
entitled  “Afghan  Women:  Messengers  of  Peace”,  held 
in  May,  offered  an  additional  opportunity  to  reiterate 
the  importance  of  women’s  participation  in  peace 
processes. We believe that the Kabul Symposium can 
become  a  mechanism  to  formulate  Afghan  women’s 
expectations  and  monitor  the  Government’s  progress 
in delivery.
6/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
The  EU  supports  Afghanistan  in  its  fight  against 
corruption  in  the  country’s  justice  sector,  parliament 
and  civil  society,  and  welcomes  the  adoption  of  its 
anti-corruption  strategy  in  October.  The  focus  must 
now be on the implementation of this strategy.
Migration continues to be high on the EU’s agenda 
and  is  an  important  subject  of  discussion  with  our 
Afghan partners. The new EU strategy on Afghanistan 
includes  migration  among  its  priorities,  confirming 
the  importance  of  widening  the  scope  of  the  EU-
Afghanistan  migration  dialogue.  We  discuss  bilateral 
cooperation,  but  also  the  regional  and  multilateral 
context.  We  have  continued  our  cooperation  in  the 
framework of the EU-Afghanistan Joint Way Forward 
on migration issues, a political platform for managing 
migration  in  a  sustainable  way,  based  on  solidarity, 
dialogue and respect for human rights.
Similarly,  with  regard  to  Afghan  refugees,  our 
attention  has  been  focused  on  development  at  the 
regional level. In parallel with regular political dialogue 
with  relevant  partners,  the  EU  took  concrete  actions 
through  a  comprehensive  approach  to  address  the 
key  challenges  of  migration  and  forced  displacement 
in  Afghanistan  and  in  the  region.  To  this  end,  two 
multi-country  regional  programmes  were  adopted 
in  2016  and  2017,  with  budgets  of  €91.6  million  and 
€195.6  million,  respectively.  The  United  Nations-
level global compacts for 2018 will offer an additional 
opportunity for the EU and Afghanistan to coordinate 
and respond to the challenges migration poses today in 
our societies and in the international arena.
Finally,  insecurity  and  instability  are  also  fuelled 
by  the  illicit  cultivation,  production  and  trafficking 
of  narcotics.  We  have  just  seen  the  alarming  recently 
published  United  Nations  figures  showing  an  87  per 
cent  increase  in  opium  production,  to  a  record  level 
of  9,000  tons.  This  remains  an  important  concern  for 
the  European  Union,  with  severe  consequences  for 
Afghanistan, including high consumption rates within 
the  population,  the  fuelling  of  the  illicit  economy, 
the  corruption  of  institutions  and  the  financing  of 
international  terrorism.  We  therefore  encourage  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  to  continue  to  forcefully 
implement its National Drug Action Plan with the full 
support  of  the  international  community  and  in  close 
cooperation with the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and  Crime  and  other  relevant  regional  frameworks, 
such as the Paris Pact Initiative.
In conclusion, in addition to the foregoing, we must 
also point out that the EU emphatically acknowledges 
the crucial role played by the United Nations Assistance 
Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  all  the  United  Nations 
agencies in supporting the Afghan people, encouraging 
peace  and  reconciliation,  monitoring  and  promoting 
international 
human  rights,  and  coordinating 
community’s  assistance.  It 
the 
international community remain strongly committed to 
accompanying Afghanistan towards lasting peace and 
stability. We will continue to support the transformation 
process to promote the emergence of a fully self-reliant, 
peaceful,  democratic  and  prosperous  society  for  the 
benefit of all Afghans.
important 
that 
the 
is 
Ms. Wilson (Australia): As an ardent supporter of 
the international consensus on Afghanistan, Australia 
is proud to co-sponsor draft resolution A/72/L.8. At a 
moment  where  this  consensus  has  become  brittle,  we 
acknowledge the work of all countries in developing a 
draft  resolution  that  reflects  constructive  engagement 
in  support  of  security,  stability  and  development 
in  Afghanistan,  in  partnership  with  the  National 
Unity Government.
In  2017,  the  international  community  reaffirmed 
its  support  for  Afghanistan,  including  through  the 
United  States-South  Asia  strategy,  a  renewed  NATO 
commitment, the European Union strategy and Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization  engagement.  Australia 
affirms these efforts and believes an integrated regional 
approach  to  Afghanistan’s  challenges  —  including 
properly 
resourced  diplomatic,  development  and 
defence  efforts  —  can  help  improve  Afghanistan’s 
prospects,  reduce  its  dependence  on  international 
assistance and chart a path toward credible peace.
We  commend  the  efforts  of  Afghanistan  and  its 
regional  partners  to  increase  trade  and  investment 
through  greater  regional  economic  cooperation.  We 
congratulate 
the  National  Unity  Government  for 
overcoming  significant  challenges  in  2017  and  note 
others  ongoing,  including  responding  to  more  than 
1  million  Afghan  returnees  and  the  difficult  security 
environment.  Australia  welcomes 
the  progress 
against  corruption,  specifically  by  the  work  of  the 
Anti-Corruption  Justice  Centre.  We  encourage  the 
Afghan  Government  to  persist  in  making  Afghan 
accountable. 
institutions  more 
Conducting 
to 
accountability. We encourage the Afghan Government 
to continue to work to hold free and fair elections.
timely  elections  will  be  critical 
transparent 
and 
17-39043
7/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
Events  in  2017  tragically  reminded  us  of  the 
human cost of insecurity and the scale of the challenge 
before us. We welcome the commitment of the Afghan 
Government  to  security-sector  reform,  including  the 
Afghan  National  Defence  and  Security  Forces  road 
map  and  the  achievement  of  its  milestones.  Australia 
remains committed to Afghanistan’s long-term security 
and development. In 2017, alongside our international 
partners,  Australia  announced  a  modest  increase  in 
its military commitment to train, advise and assist the 
courageous and resilient Afghan security forces working 
to  secure  the  country  and  its  future.  During  an  April 
visit by President Ghani to Australia, we reaffirmed our 
commitment to development cooperation by signing an 
updated and renewed bilateral development partnership 
agreement. This partnership recognized the important 
task of empowering women and girls and meeting the 
needs of vulnerable populations.
However,  ensuring  Afghanistan’s  future  is  not 
just  about  security.  Violence  and  instability  are  not 
inevitable.  Australia  continues  to  support  an  Afghan-
owned  negotiated  political  solution  as 
the  most 
sustainable  path  to  peace.  We  encourage  Afghanistan 
and  its  partners  to  look  for  opportunities  for  an 
inclusive, pragmatic dialogue to end violence and create 
a  coherent  vision  for  the  country’s  future,  including 
through the Kabul process.
Draft  resolution  A/72/L.8  is  a  vital  way  for  the 
international  community 
for 
Afghanistan and its people. I wish to record Australia’s 
admiration and appreciation for the work of the Chair 
of  the  negotiations  in  developing  the  draft  resolution 
and commend it to the Assembly.
to  express  support 
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): The Russian Federation supports the adoption 
by  consensus  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.8,  on  the 
situation in Afghanistan, which was intended to reflect 
in a targeted and comprehensive manner the collective 
approaches of the international community to reach an 
effective  and  long-term  Afghan  settlement.  This  was 
achieved  largely  by  taking  into  account  the  friendly 
relations  and  positive  experience  of  cooperating  with 
Kabul at the United Nations. However, we would like to 
note that, in reaching agreement on the text, a number 
of Russian concerns were not taken into account.
Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We  are  troubled  by  the  current  state  of  affairs  in 
Afghanistan.  The  spillover  of  the  terrorist  threat  to 
Central  Asia  and  Russia  runs  counter  to  our  national 
interests. By adopting this draft resolution, we trust that 
when the next draft resolution is drafted, we will receive 
thorough  and  detailed  reports  on  the  concrete  results 
of the 16-year struggle against terrorism and narcotics 
trafficking  and  on  the  reasons  for  the  unprecedented 
expansion of opium-poppy cultivation, which plays into 
the hands of international terrorist organizations.
The  deliberate  information  campaign  based  on 
the  unfounded  accusation  that  the  Russian  Federation 
supports  the  Taliban,  including  by  financing  it  and 
providing  it  with  weapons,  is  unacceptable.  We  see 
this  as  an  attempt  to  assign  blame  and  use  us  as  a 
scapegoat. So far, the discussions of the draft resolution 
have  shown  that  Russia  alone  has  called  consistently 
and  systematically  for  the  Taliban  movement  to  be 
fully  reclassified  as  a  terrorist  group,  which  would 
preclude  any  possible  relaxation  of  its  members’ 
criminal prosecution. We will continue to insist on that 
approach as long as we see no alternative, and we will 
never  accept  loopholes  that  enable  terrorists  to  avoid 
accountability while hiding behind the tired concept of 
countering violent extremism.
We  are  concerned  about  the  state  of  the  Afghan 
National  Security  Forces.  We  deplore  the  decision  to 
replace  its  Russian  aircraft  and  small  arms  and  the 
reform lowering the upper age limit for officers, which 
will  result  in  the  premature  retirement  of  several 
thousand highly qualified soldiers.
Unfortunately,  we  see  no  progress  in  national 
reconciliation.  In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  the 
Moscow  format  for  consultations  launched  at  the 
beginning of this year is the best possible platform for 
engaging  in  substantive  negotiations  to  facilitate  that 
process.  We  believe  that  its  underlying  principle  of 
frank and equitable partnership with the participation 
of  every  country  in  the  region  will  help  to  achieve 
its objectives.
The  spring-summer  campaign  has  not  yielded 
the expected results for the Taliban movement, but in 
spite of that it still controls about half of the country’s 
territory  and  continues  to  stage  serious  acts  of  terror 
and engage in subversive activity. The Afghan branch 
of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) is also 
strengthening its position and according to our estimates 
now numbers 10,000 people. Its ranks are mainly being 
replenished  by  foreign  terrorist  fighters  moving  into 
Afghanistan after gaining combat experience in Syria 
8/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
and  Iraq.  We  would  also  like  to  point  to  the  signs  of 
outside  support  for  ISIL  evidenced  by  sightings  of 
unmarked helicopters.
is 
issue 
Yet  another  seriously  worrying 
the 
unprecedented surge in drug production. That trend is 
starkly  confirmed  by  the  numbers  in  the  most  recent 
report  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime,  which  show  that  this  year  the  acreage  under 
drug  cultivation  grew  by  60  per  cent,  while  opium 
production nearly doubled. That represents 7 per cent 
of the country’s gross domestic product. Narcodollars 
make up a significant portion — between 35 and 40 per 
cent — of terrorist revenue. We therefore urge that the 
international community ramp up its efforts to combat 
Afghan  drug  trafficking.  We  see  good  possibilities 
here  through  strengthening  cooperation  in  this  area 
between  Afghanistan  and  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty Organization.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  stress  that  the 
Russian  Federation  robustly  and  steadfastly  supports 
the Afghan people’s aspiration for lasting peace in the 
country.  The  traditionally  friendly  relations  between 
our two countries reflect the national interests of both 
of us. However, bringing stability to Afghanistan and 
addressing the challenges it is facing will be possible 
only  through  a  comprehensive  approach  on  the  part 
of  the  international  community.  We  stand  ready  to 
continue  to  work  to  improve  the  coordination  of  all 
States’ efforts in the interests of peace in Afghanistan.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): The General Assembly first 
adopted a resolution on Afghanistan in 1980 (resolution 
35/37). It is therefore not out of place today to briefly 
recall the circumstances that produced that resolution 
and the way in which they have changed. Since 1980, 
Afghanistan  has  transitioned  through  almost  four 
decades of foreign military interventions and civil wars 
that  have  inflicted  endless  suffering  on  the  Afghan 
people,  including  millions  of  innocent  men,  women 
and children. What has remained constant throughout 
that  period  is  the  international  community’s  support 
for  the  people  of  Afghanistan.  The  annual  General 
Assembly  resolution  on  the  subject  is  an  expression 
and embodiment of that global support. We commend 
the  efforts  of  Germany  in  once  again  steering  the 
negotiations  on  draft  resolution  A/72/L.8  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan,  of  which  Pakistan  is  once 
again a sponsor.
Apart  from  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  it  is  the 
people  of  Pakistan  who  have  suffered  the  most  from 
the  decades  of  war  and  violence  in  that  country.  The 
conflict  next  door  has  fundamentally  altered  and 
affected  Pakistan’s  polity,  economy  and  society.  Our 
response  to  the  suffering  of  our  Afghan  brothers  and 
sisters  has  been  marked  by  empathy  and  generosity. 
My  country  has  offered  unprecedented  hospitality 
and  support  to  the  Afghan  people  in  the  past  several 
decades of their travail and tragedy. For more than three 
decades, we have continued to host close to 3 million 
Afghan  refugees,  the  largest  protracted  presence  of 
refugees anywhere in the world.
the 
long  war 
Unfortunately, 
in  Afghanistan 
continues.  Over  the  past  year,  the  security  situation 
has deteriorated further, with violent insurgent attacks 
proliferating across the country. Civilian casualties have 
continued to rise owing to these attacks and escalating 
air  strikes.  Pakistan  strongly  condemns  the  repeated 
large-scale, orchestrated terrorist attacks in Kabul and 
elsewhere in Afghanistan. There can be no justification 
for indiscriminate attacks on innocent children, women 
and  men.  The  intensifying  violence  and  instability  in 
Afghanistan, and the growing presence of Da’esh and 
a large number of other terrorist and militant groups in 
its  ungoverned  spaces,  is  cause  for  grave  concern  for 
the  Afghan  people,  Afghanistan’s  neighbours  and  the 
international community. Such terrorist groups pose a 
clear  and  present  danger  to  the  long-term  stability  of 
Afghanistan and the entire region.
The nexus between terrorism and drug trafficking 
helps  to  sustain  terrorist  and  extremist  groups  in 
Afghanistan.  The  latest  report  of  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  indicates  that  drug 
production in Afghanistan has rapidly increased.
The  prolonged  conflict  in  Afghanistan  has  not 
only inflicted epic suffering on its people, it has also 
prevented  Afghanistan  and  the  entire  region  from 
realizing its immense economic potential. A peaceful 
and stable Afghanistan is essential to regional stability 
and economic progress.
Pakistan  has  been  obliged  to  address  the  fallout 
from  Afghanistan’s  serial  crises,  including  terrorism. 
We have deployed 200,000 troops on our western border 
and  conducted  the  largest  anti-terrorism  campaign  in 
the  world.  Those  military  campaigns  have  succeeded 
in  clearing  our  tribal  areas  of  almost  all  militant 
and  terrorist  groups.  But  in  doing  so,  we  have  paid  a 
17-39043
9/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
heavy  price.  More  than  27,000  Pakistanis,  including 
6,500  military  and  law-enforcement  personnel,  have 
been  martyred  as  a  result  of  terrorist  attacks,  while 
Pakistan’s  economic  losses  are  estimated  at  more 
than  $120  billion.  Yet  we  remain  committed  to  fully 
implementing  our  campaign  against  terrorism  and 
violent extremism. Defeating terrorist violence is vital 
to realizing our overriding priority of rapid economic 
and social development.
Cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan is 
a  vital  component  of  the  effort  to  achieve  peace  and 
security within Afghanistan and the entire region. We 
have  a  long  shared  border  that  is  not  easy  to  control. 
It  is  in  that  spirit  of  cooperation  that  we  have  shared 
comprehensive  proposals  with  our  neighbour  for 
monitoring and controlling the border and for effective 
border  management.  They  include  the  establishment 
of a ground coordination centre and the deployment of 
liaison officers on the international border. We believe 
that  such  measures  can  play  a  vital  role  in  stopping 
the cross-border movement of terrorists and militants, 
and we hope that the Afghan Government will respond 
positively  to  our  proposal  to  strengthen  and  reinforce 
border controls.
Over the years, Pakistan has also taken comprehensive 
and  concrete  steps  to  support  Afghanistan’s  economy 
and  development.We  facilitate  the  transit  of  Afghan 
goods  without  any  quantitative  restrictions.  We  have 
recently  taken  a  series  of  additional  measures  to 
facilitate  transit  trade,  including  the  establishment  of 
round-the-clock dedicated trade posts, the improvement 
of  customs  and  immigration  infrastructure  at  border 
crossing points and the creation of dedicated lanes for 
the smooth processing of goods, especially perishable 
items, to Afghanistan.
My  country  envisages  a  future  of  even  closer 
economic  cooperation  with  Afghanistan.  Pakistan 
has actively promoted the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan-India gas pipeline and the Central Asia South 
Asia Electricity Transmission and Trade Project, which 
will address the energy needs of the region and generate 
significant  economic  activity  in  Afghanistan.  We  are 
also  working  with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan 
to  explore  other  connectivity  and 
infrastructure 
development  projects.  More  than  50,000  Afghans 
have  studied  in  Pakistani  educational  institutions  and 
are  now  working  in  Afghanistan’s  public  and  private 
sectors,  fulfilling  their  own  dreams  and  the  needs  of 
their  country.  We  have  announced  3,000  scholarships 
for  Afghan  students  in  Pakistani  universities  and 
professional colleges. The first batch of those students 
is already studying at various educational institutions 
in Pakistan. I would also like to take this opportunity to 
congratulate Afghanistan on winning the Asian Cricket 
Council Under-19 Asia Cup.
Pakistan  and  Afghanistan  share  deep  historical 
bonds  of  faith,  culture  and  geography.  The  combined 
potential of the two countries is considerable. Expanded 
trade,  energy  cooperation  and  implementation  of 
the  various  transregional  economic  projects  already 
identified  can  greatly  enhance  and  foster  peace  and 
prosperity in the entire region.
The  international  community  is  unanimous  in 
its view that sustainable peace in Afghanistan can be 
achievable  only  through  a  negotiated  settlement.  The 
draft  resolution  that  we  will  adopt  today  reaffirms 
that international consensus. Pakistan has consistently 
proposed a political settlement as the most viable way 
to end decades of conflict and suffering in Afghanistan. 
Sixteen years of war waged by the world’s most powerful 
forces have not secured a military solution. Peace will 
not be restored by continuing to resort to military force. 
Neither  the  coalition  supporting  Kabul  or  the  Afghan 
Taliban  is  in  a  position  to  impose  a  military  solution 
on  the  other.  The  promotion  of  a  political  settlement 
and  the  pursuit  of  a  military  solution  in  Afghanistan 
are  mutually  incompatible.  Resorting  to  a  military 
option  without  an  accompanying  political  strategy 
will not produce a result different from what we have 
seen over the past 16 years but will rather lead to more 
violence and suffering for the Afghan people, as well as 
increasing political instability in the region.
the 
international  community  can  help 
It is our sincere hope that priority will be given to 
achieving peace through negotiations and reconciliation. 
While 
in 
promoting those processes, the principal responsibility 
for  that  rests  with  the  Afghans  themselves.  In  that 
regard, we welcome the Afghan peace and reconciliation 
plan and hope that it will serve as a first step towards a 
political settlement. We also call on the Afghan Taliban 
to abandon violence, come to the negotiating table and 
engage in serious dialogue for peace.
Pakistan  remains  ready  to  help  to  promote  such 
a  dialogue.  Our  participation  in  every  regional  and 
international  initiative  for  peace  and  reconciliation  is 
a testament to our commitment. We have continued to 
engage in all processes designed to promote a political 
10/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
solution  —  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process  on 
Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure  and 
Stable Afghanistan; the 6+1 group of China, India, Iran, 
Pakistan,  Russia,  the  United  States  and  Afghanistan; 
the  International  Contact  Group  on  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan; the Quadrilateral Coordination Group on the 
Afghan Peace and Reconciliation Process; the Moscow 
format  and  the  Kabul  Process  for  Peace  and  Security 
Cooperation.  Progress  will  be  assured,  however,  only 
when  the  Afghan  parties  themselves  conclude  that 
there can be no military solution to the Afghan war and 
that peace can be achieved only through unconditional 
dialogue.  We  hope  that  wisdom  and  realism  will 
encourage them to engage in such peace negotiations. 
Such  a  process  is  our  best  hope  for  lasting  peace 
in Afghanistan.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the  path 
to  peace  in  Afghanistan  is  arduous  but  achievable. 
However, it is up to the Afghan parties themselves to 
acknowledge that there is no alternative path to peace 
other than an unconditional dialogue and to then make 
the tough but necessary compromises that will enable 
them to arrive at a negotiated peace. We believe that the 
people of Afghanistan deserve no less.
Mr. Mahmadaminov (Tajikistan): Tajikistan is pleased 
to join the sponsors of draft resolution A/72/L.8, which 
we hope will be adopted by consensus, as in previous 
years. In that regard, we express our sincere appreciation 
to the delegation of Germany for facilitating the draft 
resolution.  It  is  encouraging  that  all  Member  States 
share  the  same  view  of  the  importance  of  peace  and 
stability in Afghanistan and its key role in promoting 
regional cooperation and integration. There can be no 
doubt that ensuring peace, stability and socioeconomic 
rehabilitation  for  Afghanistan  will  be  crucial  to  the 
development  and  prosperity  of  the  entire  region. 
Tajikistan  supports  the  efforts  of  Afghanistan  and  its 
people  aimed  at  strengthening  its  national  dialogue 
and 
economic 
rehabilitation,  and  calls  for  expanding  assistance  to 
Afghanistan  targeting  the  restoration  of  its  economy, 
the  strengthening  of  its  social  sector  and  the  creation 
of new jobs. Peace, stability and urgent socioeconomic 
rehabilitation are crucial to Afghanistan’s development 
and prosperity.
and  post-conflict 
reconciliation 
Involving  Afghanistan 
the  process  of 
multifaceted  regional  cooperation  will  be  key  to  the 
success  of  the  international  community’s  efforts. 
We  believe  that  an  important  undertaking  in  that 
in 
regard  will  be  creating  an  environment  conducive  to 
expanding  the  potential  of  transit  networks  between 
Central Asian countries and Afghanistan, as well as the 
establishment  of  the  infrastructure  needed  to  enable 
goods and services to circulate freely in the region. We 
are ready to take part in restoring Afghanistan’s social 
and  economic  infrastructure  by  connecting  our  two 
countries’ transport arteries to create an energy bridge, 
the  Central  Asia  South  Asia  Electricity  Transmission 
and  Trade  Project  (CASA-1000),  which  will  provide 
the  Afghan  people  with  essential  commodities  and 
training  specialists.  The  construction  of  the  CASA-
1000  electricity  transmission  line,  which  we  will 
implement 
jointly  with  Kyrgyzstan,  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan and our development partners, will provide an 
energy connection between Central and South Asia and 
contribute to the future development of both regions.
Another  important  area  for  our  endeavours  is  in 
creating  an  environment  conducive  to  expanding  the 
potential  of  transit  networks  between  Central  Asian 
countries,  including  Afghanistan.  In  that  context, 
Tajikistan believes that establishing the infrastructure 
necessary for the free movement of goods, services and 
investment in the region will be crucial. We therefore 
consider  it  a  priority  to  achieve  the  signing  of  the 
relevant documents on the utilization and construction 
of  regional  framework  projects,  including  the  trade 
and transit agreement between Tajikistan, Afghanistan 
and  Pakistan  and  the  construction  of  a  Tajikistan-
Afghanistan-Turkmenistan railway.
In that regard, by implementing national and regional 
projects on energy, transport and the establishment of 
free  economic  zones  on  the  border  with  Afghanistan, 
Tajikistan is helping to engage Afghanistan in regional 
economic  integration.  Those  projects  are  aimed  at 
creating  jobs,  eradicating  poverty  and  ensuring  a 
favourable  environment  for  development.  Developing 
Afghanistan’s human resources and training specialists 
in  various  civilian  professions  are  also  important 
priorities  for  the  cooperation  programme  between 
Tajikistan and Afghanistan. Hundreds of Afghan students 
are currently studying at Tajikistan’s universities. The 
Government of Tajikistan has also established a quota of 
1,000 educational grants for citizens of Afghanistan for 
the period ending in 2025. We will continue our efforts 
to further strengthen cooperation with the Government 
of Afghanistan and international partners on the social, 
economic  and  security  fronts  in  order  to  support 
17-39043
11/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
peace, stability and socioeconomic development in our 
neighbouring countries.
Mr.  Sinirlioğlu  (Turkey):  I  would  like  to  thank 
Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah, 
the  Chief  Executive  of 
Afghanistan,  for  his  statement  and  to  welcome  his 
presence at today’s debate.
We  are  pleased  that  the  consultations  on  draft 
resolution  A/72/L.8  on  the  situation  of  Afghanistan, 
which  is  before  us  today,  have  been  completed 
successfully.  We  thank  all  the  delegations  that  made 
genuine  efforts  to  that  end.  The  Assembly’s  adoption 
of this resolution every year not only underscores the 
progress that Afghanistan is making but is also a solid 
symbol of the international community’s enduring and 
unanimous support to the Government and the people 
of Afghanistan in addressing the country’s continuing 
challenges.  We  once  again  look  forward  to  the  draft 
resolution’s adoption by consensus, and we are pleased 
to be among its sponsors. I would now like to take this 
opportunity to share some of our views on the situation 
in Afghanistan.
I would first like to emphasize the importance of 
consolidating  the  country’s  achievements  of  the  past 
16  years.  Afghanistan  still  needs  the  international 
community’s support in that regard, and it is vital that 
we live up to the commitments we have made. We must 
also  bear  in  mind  that  Afghan-led  and  -owned  peace 
and  reconciliation  efforts  are  key  to  the  country’s 
lasting peace and security. Moreover, given the fragile 
security  situation,  the  National  Unity  Government 
should  focus  on  ensuring  even  greater  inclusiveness 
and  on  combating  terrorism.  Needless  to  say,  a  more 
inclusive approach will solidify the effects of reforms 
and  political  stability,  improve  the  security  situation 
and align with the international community’s efforts to 
achieve a stable, secure and prosperous Afghanistan.
Turkey  will  continue  to  support  the  Afghan 
Government in realizing its security and development 
agenda as long as our help is needed. We will continue 
our  bilateral  assistance  in  the  areas  of  security  and 
development,  and  will  contribute  to  NATO’s  efforts 
as  the  Resolute  Support  Mission  framework  nation 
responsible for the Kabul area. I would also like to note 
that  Turkey’s  official  development  aid  to  Afghanistan 
between 2002 and 2016 totalled more than $1 billion and 
encompassed 850 projects. Our vision for Afghanistan 
is  of  a  peaceful  and  stable  country  enjoying  good, 
cooperative  relations  with  its  neighbours  while  being 
at the centre of major regional projects. In that respect, 
we welcome the signing in Ashgabat on 15 November 
of  the  Lapis  Lazuli  transit,  trade  and  transport 
route  agreement.  Turkey  will  also  continue  to  assist 
Afghanistan through multilateral platforms such as the 
Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process.
The  Afghan  people  deserve  a  better  future.  Our 
collective  and  continued  commitment  will  help  to 
renew the hopes of the Afghan people as they pursue 
that  path.  It  is  our  joint  responsibility  to  support  and 
assist them to that end.
Mr.  Lal  (India):  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  organizing 
today’s  annual 
debate on the situation in Afghanistan. We thank Chief 
Executive Abdullah Abdullah for his presence and for 
the  important  statement  he  delivered  here  today.  His 
words have clearly illustrated the indomitable spirit of 
the Afghan people in even the worst adversities.
Dastardly acts of violence and terror targeting those 
who are most vulnerable continue to test the remarkable 
resilience of the Afghan people. No one — not the sick 
in  hospitals,  small  children  in  schools,  worshippers 
in mosques or even mourners at funerals — has been 
spared  by  the  dark  and  desperate  forces  of  terror  and 
violence.  We  have  all  condemned  those  attacks  and 
expressed  sympathy  with  the  people  of  Afghanistan. 
Terrorists  and  their  supporters,  however,  continue  to 
feel  emboldened.  Clearly,  not  enough  has  been  done. 
Unfortunately,  while  the  cowardliness  and  frequency 
of the terror attacks in Afghanistan have reached new 
heights,  and  while  terrorists  continue  to  take  over 
territory and resources belonging to the Afghan people, 
we  have  witnessed  little  change  here  at  the  United 
Nations.  The  Security  Council  continues  to  debate 
whether it should designate new leaders or freeze the 
assets of the slain leader of the Taliban. Even as today’s 
debate  is  taking  place,  Da’esh  is  posing  new  threats 
in Afghanistan.
Addressing 
a 
comprehensive, uncompromising and coherent response 
from 
international  community.  Afghanistan’s 
security  and  stability  are  tied  to  those  of  the  entire 
region.  It  is  imperative  to  address  the  support  that 
terrorist  organizations  operating  outside  the  fabric  of 
international law — the Taliban, the Haqqani network, 
Da’esh, Al-Qaida and its designated affiliates, such as 
Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and the Jaysh Muhammad — draw 
from outside Afghanistan. The special terrorist areas, 
requires 
global 
terrorism 
the 
12/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
safe  havens  and  sanctuaries  beyond  Afghanistan’s 
border must be eliminated. Support for an Afghan-led, 
-owned and -controlled peace and national reconciliation 
process  within 
framework  of  Afghanistan’s 
Constitution  must  be  wholeheartedly  pursued.  Any 
meaningful progress requires an end to the violence, the 
renunciation of any links to international terrorism and 
respect  for  the  rights  of  ordinary  Afghans,  especially 
women and children.
the 
issues  continues 
We congratulate Afghanistan on its election to the 
Human Rights Council for the first time. Afghanistan’s 
active  engagement  at  the  United  Nations  on  various 
important 
the 
international community’s commitment to Afghanistan 
is  renewed  every  year  through  various  multilateral 
efforts  and  those  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission  in  Afghanistan,  respect  for  Afghanistan’s 
sovereignty and for its direction and ownership of the 
peace processes should be paramount.
to  grow.  While 
We  are  seriously  concerned  about  the  latest 
Afghanistan  Opium  Survey  figures  from  the  Afghan 
Ministry of Counter Narcotics and the United Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  highlighting  the  rise  in 
opium production, the increased acreage under poppy 
cultivation  in  Afghanistan  and  the  industry’s  role  in 
fuelling  terrorism.  We  should  be  asking  where  those 
drugs are going and who is benefiting from the trade. 
According to the survey, only a fraction of the revenue 
generated by the cultivation and trafficking of Afghan 
opiates  reaches  Afghan  drug-trafficking  groups.  So 
who  controls  and  benefits  from  that  nexus?  Those 
questions must be addressed with verifiable measures 
and  actions.  The  Security  Council,  when  addressing 
the  issue  of  the  funds  that  terrorists  in  Afghanistan 
are  generating  through  their  illicit  activities,  could 
effectively use the sanctions regime of the Committtee 
established  pursuant  to  resolution  1988  (2011)  as 
leverage  to  promote  peace.  However,  that  has  not 
happened.  We  have  not  gone  after  the  leaders  of  the 
terrorist  organizations.  We  have  not  investigated  or 
identified  the  illicit  drug-trafficking  businesses  in 
Afghanistan.  Unless  there  is  effective  action,  the 
United Nations is in danger of becoming marginalized.
India  continues  to  support  the  Government  and 
people  of  Afghanistan  in  their  efforts  to  achieve  a 
stable,  secure,  united,  prosperous,  democratic  and 
pluralistic nation. We greatly appreciate the continuing 
sacrifices  that  the  Afghan  security  forces  are  making 
not just for their own people, but for those in the region 
and the rest of the world.
We  see  development  as  the  cornerstone  of  our 
long-standing 
friendship  with  Afghanistan.  The 
recent high-level visits to India over the past couple of 
months, including by President Ashraf Ghani and Chief 
Executive Abdullah Abdullah, have given momentum to 
the next generation of the new development partnership 
between  us,  launched  in  September.  That  extends  to 
a  whole  range  of  areas,  including  education,  health, 
agriculture, infrastructure, renewable energy, drinking-
water supplies and human-resource development.
The  importance  of  connectivity  and  transit  in 
bringing peace and prosperity to Afghanistan is clear 
to  us  all.  Regrettably,  normal  overland  transport  and 
transit access between India and Afghanistan has been 
blocked  for  many  years,  a  blockade  that  harms  the 
people  of  Afghanistan,  for  it  is  their  welfare  that  is 
affected the most. In June, we established an air-freight 
corridor designed to give Afghan farmers direct access 
to  Indian  markets.  Three  dozen  cargo  flights  from 
Kabul and Kandahar have already arrived in New Delhi. 
Ten days ago, on 11 November, the first consignment of 
wheat-grain assistance from India reached Afghanistan 
through the Iranian port of Chabahar. We believe this 
marks the beginning of a new era of enhanced, reliable 
and  robust  connectivity  for  landlocked  Afghanistan 
that  will  enable  it  to  trade  with  the  larger  economies 
in  South  Asia  and  beyond.  The  September  India-
Afghanistan trade and investment show in New Delhi 
generated  more  than  $250  million  worth  of  business 
and demonstrated where the natural flow of trade and 
commerce lies for Afghanistan.
We will welcome the Assembly’s adoption of draft 
resolution  A/72/L.8,  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan, 
and  hope  that  it  will  lead  to  a  sharper  focus  on  what 
really  ails  Afghanistan.  It  is  time  to  abandon  our 
routine discussions of the situation in Afghanistan and 
deal  with  the  core  issues.  We  should  start  by  paying 
greater attention to the voices of Afghans.
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I 
welcome  the  participation  of  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah, 
Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, 
in our meeting. Let me start by reaffirming the resolve 
of  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  to  continue  their  support  to  the 
fraternal people and the Government of Afghanistan as 
they  navigate  this  difficult  period  in  their  quest  for  a 
17-39043
13/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
stable, safe and prosperous Afghanistan. I hope that the 
Assembly’s adoption today of draft resolution A/72/L.8 
will contribute to that goal.
millions of Afghan refugees sharing our public services 
and education. This year alone, our schools are educating 
nearly 400,000 undocumented Afghan students.
is 
Our  region  continues  to  suffer  from  an  alarming 
surge  in  extremist  violence,  and  a  dramatic  increase 
in  drug  production 
threatening  our  societies. 
Unfortunately, Afghanistan is one of the countries most 
affected  by  such  problems.  The  upward  trend  in  the 
levels of violence and the number of terrorist attacks has 
continued year after year since the United States invaded 
Afghanistan in 2001. More than a decade later, neither 
Afghanistan, the region or the world is any safer. The 
deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan has deep 
roots and cannot be addressed solely through military 
strategies. The Afghan Government of National Unity 
is now at the forefront of fighting terrorism and needs 
the international community’s sustained support more 
than ever in its fight against terrorism and extremism, 
as well as in facing its complex security, economic and 
development challenges. Iran reiterates its support for 
any Afghan-led peace process.
Strengthening  our 
regional  cooperation  with 
Afghanistan  is  a  priority  and  a  major  step  in  the 
consolidation of peace and development in the region. 
We welcome and urge for further efforts to strengthen 
the  process  of 
regional  economic  cooperation, 
including  measures  aimed  at  facilitating  regional 
connectivity, trade and transit, as highlighted in today’s 
draft resolution. In that regard, the recent start of the 
Chabahar project and the arrival of the first shipment 
from India to Afghanistan through that port represent 
important progress.
indicates 
The challenges facing Afghanistan and our region 
are  interconnected.  We  are  very  concerned  about 
the  findings  of  the  Afghanistan  Opium  Survey  2017
of  the  United  Nations  Office  for  Drugs  and  Crime, 
which 
that  opium  production  grew  by 
87 per cent in the course of the year, numbers that are 
especially  alarming  in  view  of  the  fact  that  narcotics 
are  a  major  source  of  income  for  terrorist  groups. 
Underdevelopment, low incomes and lack of economic 
opportunities  provide  fertile  ground  and  abundant 
recruitment opportunities for terrorist groups and drug 
networks.  The  international  community  must  support 
the  relevant  international  and  regional  projects  and 
activities,  including  those  conducted  by  Afghanistan, 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  Pakistan  within 
the  framework  of  their  triangular  counter-narcotics 
initiative. For more than three decades, Iran has hosted 
Iran  continues  to  participate  in  the  work  of  the 
Tripartite Commission in order to plan for the voluntary, 
safe,  dignified  and  gradual  repatriation  of  Afghan 
refugees. However, the number of returnees continues 
to  be  the  lowest  recorded  since  the  establishment  in 
2002  of  the  voluntary  return  programme,  with  many 
returnees choosing not to return to their areas of origin, 
including  large  numbers  who  have  settled  in  urban 
centres.  We  welcome  any  effort  to  help  overcome  the 
main challenges to reintegration that returnees face and 
to  formulate  a  comprehensive  voluntary  repatriation 
and  reintegration  strategy.  Success 
in  voluntary 
repatriation depends first and foremost on meeting the 
reasonable needs of repatriated refugees in Afghanistan 
and  underscores  the  importance  of  mobilizing  more 
international support to that end. A stronger and more 
coordinated  approach  among  the  Government,  donors 
and  the  United  Nations,  and  an  overall  strategy  for 
addressing  the  combined  needs  of  the  displaced  and 
returnees will be crucial to ensuring that the repatriation 
of Afghan refugees is more effective.
We support the United Nations Assistance Mission 
in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  and  other  United  Nations 
agencies  in  their  efforts  to  provide  development 
and  reconstruction  assistance  through  the  genuine 
commitment  of  the  United  Nations  to  a  sustained 
partnership with Afghanistan, as outlined in the final 
report  (S/2015/713,  annex)  of  the  Tripartite  Review 
Commission  on  the  United  Nations  in  Afghanistan. 
We must utilize the mandate of UNAMA and its good 
offices to strengthen national institutions and capacities 
in priority areas, as the Government requests.
Mr.  Blanchard  (Canada):  I  would  like  to  thank 
Germany for leading the preparation of this year’s draft 
resolution (A/72/L.8), on the situation in Afghanistan. 
On  behalf  of  Canada,  I  would  also  like  to  express 
our  appreciation  for 
the  presence  and  statement 
in  the  Assembly  today  of  Chief  Executive  Officer 
Abdullah Abdullah.
Canada  remains  steadfast  in  its  desire  for  peace 
and  security  in  Afghanistan.  The  fighting  there  has 
intensified, and we are dismayed by the unacceptable 
toll it is taking on the Afghan people. We hope that all 
domestic, regional and international stakeholders will 
continue to focus on bringing an end to that violence. 
14/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
For  our  part,  we  remain  committed  to  ensuring  that 
Afghanistan  does  not  once  again  become  a  haven  for 
international  terrorism.  We  are  dedicated  to  helping 
Afghans  create  a  sustainable  future  and  a  country 
that is well governed, respects human rights and is in 
control of its own destiny.
(spoke in French)
Canada  fully  supports  the  Afghan-led  peace  and 
reconciliation process and commends the Government 
of Afghanistan for its efforts to foster peace, including 
by convening the first conference of the Kabul Process 
for Peace and Security Cooperation in June. The Kabul 
Process  meeting,  held  shortly  after  the  devastating 
attack of 31 May in Kabul, is only one example of the 
country’s  unwavering  commitment  to  peace,  despite 
formidable  challenges.  Canada  also  welcomes  the 
important  role  played  by  so  many  States  and  civil-
society  actors  in  promoting  peace  and  reconciliation 
in Afghanistan, and in particular the tireless efforts of 
those working to help those who are most vulnerable, 
especially the internally displaced, refugees, minority 
communities and women and girls.
(spoke in English)
As  Mr.  Abdullah  reminded  us  this  morning,  it  is 
urgent  and  important  that  we,  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations,  support  our  Secretary-General  in 
his efforts to reform the United Nations with a view to 
ensuring our ability to make the United Nations “deliver 
as one” in Afghanistan as soon as possible. For us in the 
Organization, the discussions of United Nations reform 
may  sometimes  sound  bureaucratic  and  theoretical. 
But for the people of Afghanistan, that reform process 
could not be more real.
(spoke in French)
Canada has pledged $465 million in security-sector 
support and development assistance to Afghanistan for 
the period from 2017 to 2020. At its core is a special 
focus  on  the  rights  of  women  and  girls  in  line  with 
Canada’s  feminist  foreign  policy,  as  well  as  with  our 
second  national  action  plan  on  women,  peace  and 
security commitments.
(spoke in English)
Sustainable peace and security cannot be achieved 
without  the  active  and  substantive  participation  of 
all  members  of  society,  including  women  and  girls. 
We  are  pleased  to  see  the  commitment  in  today’s 
draft  resolution  to  achieving  women’s  full  and  equal 
participation in all spheres of Afghan life. Women play 
a vital role in the peace process, and we echo the draft 
resolution in emphasizing the importance of respect for 
the rule of law and human rights in Afghanistan.
Nor  can  sustainable  peace  and  security  be 
achieved  without  economic  development. 
I  was 
happy  to  hear  Chief  Executive  Abdullah  say  that  the 
economy has turned a corner and is showing signs of 
recovery,  especially  in  private-sector  investment  and 
development. Canada is pleased to hear that the regional 
economic cooperation agenda is becoming a reality and 
stands  ready  to  provide  it  with  further  assistance.  As 
my colleague from Tajikistan said, regional economic 
cooperation is one of the keys to stability in the region.
As  we  move  forward  on  the  draft  resolution,  I 
would  like  to  note  that  this  year  marks  the  twentieth 
anniversary of the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition 
of  the  Use,  Stockpiling,  Production  and  Transfer  of 
Anti-Personnel  Mines  and  on  Their  Destruction.  The 
use  of  anti-personnel  landmines  and  the  numbers  of 
their victims are dropping around the world. I hope that 
such achievements will continue to motivate us all in 
our efforts to attain peace, emphasizing the importance 
of sustained international assistance as we work towards 
the goal of declaring Afghanistan mine-free by 2023.
Canada  supports  draft  resolution  A/72/L.8.  We 
stand with the Afghan people, especially the country’s 
women  and  girls,  as  they  strive  for  a  more  secure, 
prosperous and peaceful future.
Mr. Ibragimov (Uzbekistan): I would like to thank 
the President for convening today’s important meeting 
on the situation in Afghanistan and to make a general 
statement on draft resolution A/72/L.8 in the context of 
its implications for the Central Asian region.
Today  the  prospects  for  stable  and  sustainable 
development in Central Asia are inextricably linked to 
the achievement of peace in our neighbour Afghanistan, 
since  stabilizing  the  situation  there  is  an  important 
prerequisite for ensuring peace and security globally as 
well as regionally. In that regard, Uzbekistan supports 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan, 
which defines the progress that has been achieved and the 
continuing challenges facing the country, and provides 
ways to address those challenges. We particularly agree 
with  the  notion  that  there  is  no  military  solution  that 
can  ensure  Afghanistan’s  stability,  which  requires 
all  the  country’s  regional  and  international  partners 
17-39043
15/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
to  continue  their  efforts  to  support  the  peace  and 
reconciliation  process.  As  the  draft  resolution  states, 
an  inclusive  Afghan-led  and  -owned  peace  process 
backed by the international community is essential to 
achieving long-term peace and stability there. That also 
reflects Uzbekistan’s position on the issue. As President 
Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan said in his address 
to the Assembly at its seventy-second session,
“We  are  convinced  that  the  only  way  to  peace 
in  Afghanistan  is  a  direct  dialogue  between 
the  central  Government  and  the  main  domestic 
political  forces,  held  without  preconditions.  The 
negotiations  should  be  Afghan-led,  held  on  the 
territory of Afghanistan and under the auspices of 
the United Nations.” (A/72/PV.5, p.15)
Uzbekistan strongly believes that the international 
community’s active involvement in helping Afghanistan 
to  rebuild  its  economy  and  infrastructure  continues 
to  be  an  important  condition  for  ensuring  the  overall 
stabilization  of  the  situation  there.  Those  efforts 
should focus on integrating Afghanistan into regional 
economic processes, especially projects implemented by 
its neighbours in energy and transport communication 
and other areas.
security  and 
Ten  days  ago,  Uzbekistan  hosted  an  international 
conference,  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations,  on  ensuring 
sustainable 
development  in  Central  Asia.  Foreign  Ministers  from 
every  Central  Asian  State,  including  Afghanistan,  as 
well  as  high-ranking  officials  from  other  countries, 
the  European  Union,  the  Organization  for  Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  and  various  international 
forum  and 
organizations,  were  present  at 
contributed 
its  success.  In 
the  forum’s  final 
communiqué, the attendees supported initiatives aimed 
at backing the peace process in Afghanistan, promoting 
the reconstruction of its socioeconomic infrastructure 
and  working  more  actively  to  integrate  it  into  global 
economic networks.
to 
the 
Over the past year, Uzbekistan has also intensified 
its bilateral dialogue with Afghanistan. This year alone, 
the Presidents of the two countries met several times on 
the  sidelines  of  various  international  conferences  and 
forums.  An  official  visit  by  Afghanistan’s  President 
to  Uzbekistan  is  also  being  planned.  In  January, 
a  delegation  from  Uzbekistan,  led  by  our  Foreign 
Minister, paid an official visit to Kabul, during which 
the parties signed five agreements on collaborating on 
Afghanistan’s  economic  reconstruction,  developing 
its  transport  and  energy  infrastructure  and  training 
its  human  resources.  It  was  also  announced  that  an 
Uzbekistan  trade  commission  would  open  in  Kabul 
with  the  goal  of  expanding  trade  between  the  two 
countries.  In  addition,  this  year  the  President  of 
Uzbekistan  appointed  a  special  envoy  to  Afghanistan 
in a clear indication of Uzbekistan’s desire to upgrade 
its bilateral ties to a qualitatively new level and advance 
its  multifaceted  cooperation  with  Afghanistan  on 
every front.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  we  in 
Uzbekistan  strongly  believe  that  Afghanistan  must 
remain at the heart of the global agenda. Its integration 
into  regional  and  global  economic  networks  will 
be  a  key  factor  in  establishing  peace  and  stability  in 
the country.
Mr.  Camp  (United  States  of  America):  I  would 
like to start by thanking the German delegation for its 
work  in  leading  the  negotiations  on  this  year’s  draft 
resolution (A/72/L.8). I am also grateful to Afghanistan 
and  all  the  other  nations  that  engaged  constructively 
on  the  text,  as  well  to  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  Chief 
Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, for 
his presence here today.
The  United  States  is  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of 
the  draft  resolution  and  thereby  renew  its  collective 
pledge of continued support to the Government and the 
people  of  Afghanistan  as  they  work  to  build  a  stable, 
prosperous and secure nation. It has been 16 years since 
the United States and the international community first 
took  action  in  Afghanistan.  Throughout  that  period, 
we  and  our  international  partners  have  expended 
considerable blood and treasure, and the Afghan people 
have  endured  great  hardship  and  sacrifice.  We  were 
reminded  of  that  in  the  starkest  terms  this  year  on 
31  May,  when  terrorists  killed  more  than  150  people 
and  injured  almost  500  in  a  cowardly  attack  in  the 
centre  of  Kabul.  Among  the  dead,  almost  all  of  them 
civilians, were women, children, members of the media 
and diplomatic personnel.
In  the  first  half  of  this  year,  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  documented  more 
than  5,200  civilian  casualties,  of  which  more  than 
1,600 were fatalities. Even more tragically, 30 per cent 
of  those  were  children.  As  the  draft  resolution  notes, 
anti-Government forces such as the Taliban, along with 
terrorist groups such as Al-Qaida and the Islamic State 
16/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
in Iraq and the Sham in Khorasan, were responsible for 
a significant majority of those civilian casualties. It was 
in that context that in August President Trump approved 
a new regional strategy for the United States in South 
Asia,  based  on  the  recognition  that  Afghanistan’s 
security and stability is tied to that of the entire region, 
and that we must enlist that region in efforts to bring 
peace to Afghanistan. We will continue to support the 
Afghan Government and security forces in their fight 
against the Taliban and terrorist groups. We commend 
the  Afghan  Government  on  the  progress  it  has  made 
in  combating  those  threats,  and  we  are  prepared  to 
assist  its  forces  in  ending  the  war  and  preventing  the 
re-establishment of any terrorist safe haven.
Our  NATO  allies  and  partners  are  working 
to  finalize  troop  increases  and  additional  support 
efforts  that  will  strengthen  NATO’s  Resolute  Support 
Mission.  At  the  NATO  Defence  Ministers’  meeting 
on  9  November,  more  than  two  dozen  nations  stated 
that they intend to increase their troop numbers on the 
ground. We are deeply appreciative of their continued 
commitment to stabilizing Afghanistan and the broader 
South Asia region. All of the efforts of the United States 
and our NATO allies in Afghanistan are focused on the 
goal of achieving a political settlement via an Afghan-
led and -owned inclusive peace process. Today’s draft 
resolution  underscores  how  important  it  is  to  ensure 
that such a peace process is backed by all the relevant 
regional actors, and we urge both Afghans and regional 
partners to bring a renewed sense of urgency in order to 
reinvigorate the peace talks.
to 
the  Taliban 
Our  message 
and  other 
anti-Government  forces  is  clear.  They  cannot  win  on 
the  battlefield,  and  the  only  path  to  peace  is  through 
negotiations.  They  must  cut  their  ties  with  terrorist 
groups,  abandon  violence  and  accept  the  Afghan 
Constitution.  Along  with  our  efforts  to  advance 
Afghanistan’s  peace  process,  we  stand  ready  to  work 
with  President  Ghani,  Chief  Executive  Abdullah,  the 
Afghan Government and the Afghan people to advance 
security,  political  stability,  electoral  reform  and 
accountable  governance  in  the  coming  year.  Working 
together,  the  Afghan  Government,  the  region  and 
Afghanistan’s international partners can make progress 
towards the promise of a stable, secure and prosperous 
Afghanistan.  Indeed,  we  owe  it  to  the  soldiers  and 
civilians  who  have  suffered  or  perished  during  the 
course of the war to make good that promise.
Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
would  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  the 
Chief Executive of Afghanistan, to our debate today.
Afghanistan’s peace and stability are central to the 
interests  of  the  Afghan  people  and  have  a  bearing  on 
regional security, stability, development and prosperity. 
A  united,  stable  and  growing  Afghanistan  will  serve 
the  common  interests  of  the  international  community 
and  the  countries  in  the  region.  China  commends  the 
National  Unity  Government  for  its  commitment  to 
economic and social development and the promotion of 
national reconciliation, as well as the positive results it 
has achieved. In the meantime, however, Afghanistan 
is still facing serious political, economic and security 
challenges.  China  hopes  the  international  community 
will continue its support and assistance to Afghanistan 
to  help  it  realize  peace,  stability  and  development.  In 
that  regard,  we  would  like  to  propose  the  following 
key initiatives.
First,  peace  and  stability  must  be  maintained  by 
improving  the  security  environment.  The  Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces bear the primary 
responsibility for the maintenance of peace, security and 
stability in Afghanistan. The international community 
should  continue  to  support  their  capacity-building 
initiatives so as to effectively respond to threats such 
as terrorism, transnational crime and drug trafficking. 
Draft resolution A/72/L.8 acknowledges the important 
contribution made by regional organizations such as the 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization to the maintenance 
of  security  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  and  hopes 
that 
international  community  can  strengthen 
counter-terrorism,  coordination  and  cooperation  so 
as  to  provide  a  secure  environment  for  Afghanistan’s 
national development and reconstruction.
the 
Secondly,  determined  efforts  must  be  made  to 
advance  the  reconciliation  process  through  political 
dialogue. Advancing an inclusive reconciliation process, 
led and owned by the Afghan people, is the only way 
to lasting peace and development in Afghanistan. The 
parties should put the long-term interests of the country 
and  the  people  first  and  participate  actively  in  the 
political  reconciliation  process  based  on  the  strategic 
plan  for  peace  and  reconciliation.  China  supports  the 
Quadrilateral Coordination Group on the Afghan peace 
and reconciliation process, through which Afghanistan, 
China, Pakistan and the United States should continue 
their  activities,  in  accordance  with  resolution  72/10, 
to push for launching peace talks between the Afghan 
17-39043
17/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
Government  and  the  Taliban  as  soon  as  possible.  We 
welcome  the  international  community’s  continued 
support to peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan.
Thirdly,  reconstruction  must  be  realized  through 
independent development. China hopes that the political 
parties in Afghanistan can improve their unity, narrow 
their differences through dialogue and work jointly for 
national development in accordance with the Afghanistan 
National  Peace  and  Development  Framework.  The 
international  community  should  continue  to  provide 
the Afghan Government and people with attention and 
support — while respecting Afghanistan’s sovereignty, 
independence and territorial integrity and the Afghan 
people’s  right  to  an  independent  choice  of  political 
systems  and  development  paths  —  and,  by  taking 
Afghanistan’s  development  strategies  and  specific 
needs into consideration, target its assistance so as to 
help  the  Afghan  Government  improve  its  governance 
and development capabilities.
Fourthly, 
in  order 
to  support  economic  and 
social  development 
through  regional  cooperation, 
the  international  community  should  honour  its  aid 
commitments  to  Afghanistan  and  support  its  efforts 
to  achieve  economic  sustainability.  Afghanistan  is 
blessed  with  the  advantage  of  significant  geological 
and other natural resources, and has broad potential for 
participating  in  regional  economic  cooperation.  The 
draft resolution once again underscores the importance 
of initiatives such as One Belt One Road in promoting 
Afghanistan’s  economic  development  and  regional 
cooperation.  We  hope  that  in  a  spirit  of  consultation, 
collaboration  and  benefit-sharing,  countries  can 
strengthen  their  regional  economic  cooperation  and 
interconnectivity, and help Afghanistan integrate into 
regional development with a view to forging a shared 
destiny for humankind.
As  Afghanistan’s  good  neighbour  and  good 
partner,  China  has  all  along  supported  Afghanistan’s 
reconstruction  and  development  efforts.  Countries  in 
the region, including Afghanistan, took an active part in 
the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, 
held in Beijing in May. The Governments of China and 
Afghanistan  have  signed  cooperation  agreements  in 
economic, trade and customs affairs and other spheres, 
and  are  actively  implementing  the  memorandum  of 
understanding  between  China  and  Afghanistan  and 
jointly promoting the Belt and Road construction.
Those  efforts  will  further  strengthen  trade  and 
infrastructure  interconnectivity  between  Afghanistan 
and  the  region  and  will  help  to  consolidate  economic 
and  social  development 
the 
region.  China  stands  ready,  along  with  the  rest  of 
the  international  community,  to  make  unremitting 
efforts for the early realization of peace, stability and 
development in Afghanistan.
in  Afghanistan  and 
China  supports  the  unanimous  adoption  of  draft 
resolution  A/72/L.8,  on  Afghanistan,  by  the  General 
Assembly  at 
the  current  session  and  commends 
Germany for its tremendous efforts as the facilitator of 
the draft resolution.
Mrs.  Nusseibeh  (United  Arab  Emirates):  At  the 
outset, I would like to say that the United Arab Emirates 
looks  forward  to  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/72/L.8,  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  by  the 
General  Assembly,  and  thanks  Germany  for  its  great 
work  in  facilitating  the  draft  resolution.  Mobilizing 
support for the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is the 
way to create a safe and sustainable path that ensures 
inclusive and long-term development for all Afghans. I 
therefore welcome the statement made this morning by 
Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chief Executive of the Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan,  which  offered  an  important 
blueprint for Afghanistan’s future.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  been  devoted  to 
improving the lives of the Afghan people for more than 
four decades. We believe that that is not only the right 
thing to do, but that it is imperative for maintaining the 
security and stability of our region. We recognize the 
need to achieve long-term peace and stability through 
a comprehensive Afghan-led political peace process. In 
that regard, we commend the efforts of the Secretary-
General  and  those  of  his  Special  Representative 
in 
in 
Afghanistan for their role in improving coherence and 
international coordination in support of an Afghan-led 
political process.
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
The  Afghan  Government  and  people  are  on  the 
front  lines  of  the  global  war  against  terrorism  and 
extremism.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  gravely 
concerned  by  the  tragic  events  that  have  occurred  in 
Afghanistan  in  recent  years,  including  the  escalating 
number  of  terrorist  attacks  targeting  civilians  and 
security forces. One such attack earlier this year really 
struck home for us. A heinous act of violence claimed 
the life of my colleague, Mr. Juma Al-Kaabi, the United 
18/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
Arab  Emirates  Ambassador  to  Kabul,  and  killed  five 
other  Emirati  diplomats  and  11  Afghans,  injuring 
many more.
We  know  that  we  are  not  alone  in  our  concern 
about  that  situation.  The  United  States  and  dozens  of 
other  countries  are  actively  addressing  the  insecurity 
in  Afghanistan  and  have  been  for  years.  We  applaud 
the  efforts  of  the  United  States,  the  European  Union, 
the  NATO  partners  and  others  to  bring  peace  and 
stability to the country and to support and rebuild its 
institutions and infrastructure. We welcome the United 
States  Administration’s  bold  strategy,  which  brings 
renewed  vigour  to  addressing  the  security  situation 
and  is  charting  a  path  of  continued  United  States 
engagement aimed at improving the conditions on the 
ground in Afghanistan.
While  much  progress  has  been  made,  the  road 
ahead  is  long.  The  international  community  must  not 
repeat  the  mistakes  of  the  past,  when  disengagement 
and  neglect  of  Afghanistan  permitted  extremists  to 
take  over  the  country.  We  call  on  the  international 
community to continue to address the security situation 
in  Afghanistan,  work  to  establish  a  peace  process, 
intensify efforts to support the country’s security forces 
and promote economic and human development.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  been  a  long-term 
stakeholder  in  the  international  community’  efforts 
to ensure the peace and prosperity of Afghanistan. In 
support  of  the  legitimate  Government  of  Afghanistan 
and  our  NATO  partners,  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
has been part of the International Security Assistance 
Force  mission  in  the  country  since  2003.  Emirati 
troops — who have numbered as many as 1,500 — have 
provided  security  assistance  and  have  been  involved 
in  community  development  activities.  We  welcome 
Mr.  Abdullah’s  statement  this  morning  that  defeating 
terrorism  is  a  cornerstone  of  their  security  strategy. 
We believe, along with him, that it is action against all 
forms of terrorism that will speak louder than words. 
We must agree to fight all shades of terrorism. There 
are no good or bad terrorists.
Since  the  1970s,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
provided over $680 million in development assistance 
for  reconstruction  and  for  humanitarian  efforts.  My 
country  has  implemented  several  development  and 
reconstruction  projects 
including 
a  housing  and  community  development  project  in 
Kabul, the rebuilding of the airport in Mazar-e-Sharif 
in  Afghanistan, 
in  collaboration  with  Germany  and  other  countries, 
and  a  partnership  with  the  United  Kingdom  on  work 
to  improve  Highway  611,  a  critical  traffic  artery  in 
the country.
in 
especially 
And  because  we  also  believe  that  educational 
institutions  — 
conflict-affected 
areas  —  are  instrumental  in  building  a  future  for 
young  generations,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  opened 
the Zayed University in Khost province, which teaches 
medicine,  engineering,  technology  and  law,  among 
other subjects.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  recognizes  that 
religious  leaders  are  integral  to  instilling  values  of 
peace, tolerance and diversity. To that end, the United 
Arab  Emirates  aims  to  train  religious  leaders  and 
position  them  to  better  lead  their  communities.  We 
have trained nearly 20,000 Afghan imams to promote 
values  of  tolerance  and  moderation  in  Islam,  work  to 
eliminate causes of discord and division, foster peace 
and promote inclusion.
In establishing peace and security in Afghanistan, 
we  must  not  forget  the  fundamental  and  important 
role  that  women  play.  To  that  end,  we  recall  Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and  the  subsequent 
resolutions on women and peace and security that make 
up  the  framework  for  the  integration  of  women  into 
the building of sustainable and inclusive societies. To 
better  position  women  in  Afghan  society,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  has  specifically  implemented  projects 
for  women  and  families  in  Afghanistan,  including 
through  their  ownership  of  small  businesses,  so  as  to 
enable them to provide for their families.
In conclusion, I want to say that the United Arab 
Emirates  remains  deeply  committed  to  the  people  of 
Afghanistan. The relationship between the United Arab 
Emirates and the Afghan people is a particularly close 
one. We are powerfully bonded by our shared history, 
traditions and culture. The United Arab Emirates will 
therefore continue to provide humanitarian support and 
development assistance, particularly in health, education 
and  social  services,  through  bilateral  cooperation  or 
joint cooperation with international partners.
Mr. Imnadze (Georgia): Georgia aligns itself with 
the statement delivered by the observer of the European 
Union. However, I would like to make few remarks in 
my national capacity.
17-39043
19/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  thank  the  delegation 
of  Germany  for  facilitating 
the  negotiations  on 
draft  resolution  A/72/L.8,  entitled  “The  situation  in 
Afghanistan”, this year again. As one of the sponsors of 
the draft resolution, we look forward to its adoption by 
consensus later today.
The  United  Nations  plays  a  central  role 
in 
promoting  peace  and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  We 
remain committed to the development of Afghanistan 
and  commend  the  efforts  of  its  Government  aimed  at 
reconstruction,  development  and  strengthening  the 
foundations of democracy. We condemn in the strongest 
terms  all  unlawful  acts  of  violence  and  intimidation 
perpetrated  against  civilians,  which  are  aimed  at 
undermining those efforts.
Georgia is privileged to be among those countries 
that  are  helping  Afghanistan  rebuild  that  war-torn 
country.  Despite  our  small  size  and  our  own  security 
challenges related to respect for our territorial integrity 
and sovereignty, Georgia has, for more than a decade, 
been  consistently  contributing  to  the  international 
efforts  aimed  at  ensuring  the  secure  and  peaceful 
development of Afghanistan.
Throughout  those  years,  in  a  clear  demonstration 
of  my  country’s  commitment  to  enhancing  peace  and 
stability  in  the  region,  Georgian  soldiers  have  been 
part of the NATO missions in Afghanistan, displaying 
outstanding  courage,  professionalism  and  dedication. 
We joined the anti-terrorist coalition immediately after 
the horrendous 9/11 attacks by providing our airspace 
and  airports  for  the  transit  of  coalition  forces  and 
personnel to Afghanistan. In 2004, Georgia upgraded 
its  engagement  by  committing  troops,  and  within 
several  years  it  became  the  largest  non-NATO  troop 
contributor  to  the  International  Security  Assistance 
Force  (ISAF),  and  the  second  largest  per  capita 
troop  contributor  after  the  United  States.  Following 
the  drawdown  of  ISAF,  Georgia  maintained 
its 
commitment  to  international  peace  and  security  by 
joining  the  Resolute  Support  Mission.  We  maintain 
870  servicemen  and  servicewomen,  and  stand  ready 
to maintain the same volume and composition of those 
forces throughout 2018.
We  also  support  the  development  of  the  Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces and have already 
contributed  $1.5  million  to  the  Afghan  National 
Army  Trust  Fund.  We  will  consider  further  financial 
contributions for the period 2018-2020.
In conclusion, I should like to welcome the Chief 
Executive  of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah. 
We  welcome  his  statement  and  echo  his  remarks  on 
the  Lapis  Lazuli  Corridor,  in  which  Afghanistan, 
Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey joined 
hands in a historic agreement, once again reaffirming 
their  centuries-old  traditional,  cultural  and  economic 
ties. The Corridor not only opens up new opportunities 
for the development of Afghanistan and the entire region 
but also acts as a stabilizing factor in terms of security.
Georgia will continue to stand by Afghanistan and 
its people in the years to come.
Ms. Plepytė (Lithuania): At the outset, I would like 
to thank the delegation of Germany for its outstanding 
work  on  the  draft  resolution  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan (A/72/L.8), which Lithuania co-sponsored.
Lithuania aligns itself with the statement delivered 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  We  welcome  the 
participation of, and the statement made by, the Chief 
Executive  of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  at 
this meeting.
Lithuania commends the National Unity Government 
of Afghanistan for implementing substantial reforms in 
various areas, with a view to facilitating the transition 
of the country into a peaceful and democratic society. 
The efforts in the fight against corruption and impunity 
are encouraging. However, further progress is needed 
in the areas of democracy, the rule of law, human rights 
and  women’s  empowerment.  But  first  and  foremost, 
none  of  the  goals  can  be  achieved  without  a  stable 
security  situation,  which  is  vital  for  the  development 
of the nation.
As  the  Secretary-General  indicates  in  his  most 
recent report (A/72/392), conflict continues throughout 
the  country,  with  thousands  of  civilians  killed  or 
injured, and hundreds of thousands displaced. Ordinary 
Afghans  bear  the  brunt  as  armed  clashes,  improvised 
explosive  devices,  suicide  attacks  and  assassinations 
continue unabated. The growing number of casualties 
among women and children is an extremely worrying 
fact.  Terrorist  attacks  continue  to  destabilize  the 
country, with the Taliban, Al-Qaida, the Islamic State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Levant-Khorasan  Province  and  others 
claiming responsibility for the most brutal ones.
The  cycle  of  violence  must  end,  and  dialogue 
commence. Peace can be achieved only through direct 
negotiations,  and  we  encourage  the  Government  of 
20/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
Afghanistan and the Taliban to proceed in that regard. 
Only  the  fostering  of  stable  and  effective  institutions 
of  Government  that  can  overcome  the  threats  from 
Islamist  terrorist  groups  active  in  the  country  can 
lead  to  success.  The  leaders  of  Afghanistan  must 
ultimately  assume  responsibility  in  order  to  achieve 
long-term  peace  and  stability  in  the  country.  Only 
an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace  process  can 
ensure sustainable solutions in the various fields of the 
development of the State.
While  commending  the  Afghan  National  Defence 
and Security Forces for their courage and resilience in 
maintaining full responsibility for security throughout 
the  country,  we  also  stress  that  they  must  continue 
to  be  strengthened.  One  of  the  contributions  of  the 
international community to that end is represented by 
the Resolute Support Mission, which provides training, 
advice and assistance. Lithuania, for its part, continues 
to assist Afghanistan in building professionally trained 
and  equipped  defence  and  security  forces.  This  year 
again,  we  contributed  $500,000  to  the  Afghanistan 
National  Army  Trust  Fund  and  intend  to  do  likewise 
over  the  coming  years.  We  have  also  increased  our 
military presence, within the framework of the Resolute 
Support Mission.
Electoral reform should remain high on the national 
agenda.  As  Afghanistan  prepares  for  the  forthcoming 
parliamentary and district-council elections next year, 
we hope that every effort will be made to hold them in 
a timely, inclusive, transparent and credible manner. It 
is imperative that no political divisions destabilize the 
situation,  so  that  timely  elections  can  herald  tangible 
progress towards the democratization of the country.
In  the  context  of  the  forthcoming  elections,  we 
expect  that  the  reintroduction  of  the  25  per  cent 
quota  for  women  in  the  Parliament  will  provide 
much-needed  impetus  to  efforts  to  secure  women’s 
rights  in  Afghanistan.  Although  we  acknowledge 
the  progress  achieved  on  Afghan  women’s  rights  and 
empowerment, advances in promoting women’s rights 
remain,  nevertheless,  uneven.  A  new  Women,  Peace 
and  Security  Index,  unveiled  recently  at  the  United 
Nations, indicates that Afghan women’s inclusion and 
access to justice and security in the home, community 
and society remain the lowest among all countries on 
the list.
In that regard, we congratulate Afghanistan’s first 
television  network  run  by  and  for  women,  Zan  TV, 
and  female  Afghan  journalists,  who  are  challenging, 
through several new media projects, various stereotypes 
imposed on them in their society. The network, which 
covers topics from women’s rights to children’s shows, 
is set to transform attitudes in the country and should 
be supported.
At  the  same  time,  we  are  concerned  about  the 
situation  of  journalists  and  media  workers,  who  face 
increasing risks in their daily lives. This year marked 
an increase in attacks on journalists and media outlets. 
We  encourage  the  Afghan  authorities  to  strengthen 
their  efforts  to  investigate  attacks  against  journalists 
and  related  media  workers  and  bring  the  perpetrators 
to account.
The  growing  problem  of  widespread  drug 
production  in  the  country  has  a  very  negative  impact 
on development, health and security. Concerted efforts 
on  the  part  of  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and 
the  international  community  are  required  to  generate 
alternative sources of income, create viable economic 
opportunities  and  jobs,  and  foster  a  business-friendly 
environment.  Such  an  approach  would  enhance  the 
prospects  of  the  population  and,  at  the  same  time, 
reduce migration out of Afghanistan.
In  conclusion,  Lithuania  continues  to  support  the 
efforts  of  the  Afghan  people  to  achieve  lasting  peace 
and  prosperity.  Lithuanian  companies  are  working 
with  Afghanistan  to  improve  the  quality  of  Afghan 
passports  and  solve  cybersecurity  issues.  Moreover, 
our  State  institutions  stand  ready  to  assist  with  the 
reform processes and share our experience in a number 
of areas. A stable, peaceful and prosperous Afghanistan 
is a priority that we share, in the interests of all of us.
Mr.  Pecsteen  de  Buytswerve  (Belgium)  (spoke 
in  French):  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  join  other 
speakers  in  thanking  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah  for  his 
statement.  I  should  also  like  to  thank  our  German 
colleagues  for  having  so  ably  guided  the  negotiations 
on today’s draft resolution (A/72/L.8). We hope that it 
will be adopted by consensus, as in previous years.
Belgium aligns itself with the statement delivered 
on behalf of the European Union. I should like to add 
the following remarks in my national capacity.
Over  the  past  decade,  Afghanistan  has  made 
significant  progress  politically,  economically  and  in 
terms of development. The draft resolution highlights 
numerous areas of progress, but those gains are fragile, 
17-39043
21/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
and major challenges persist. I should like to focus on 
four aspects.
First,  I  would  like  to  underscore  that  the  draft 
resolution  provides  a  unique  opportunity  for  the 
international community to come together to consider 
the best way to assist Afghanistan in building sustainable 
peace  and  development.  There  are  many  ways  to 
support the country, including cooperation on security, 
regional trade and humanitarian matters, strengthening 
institutions and fighting drug trafficking, criminality, 
terrorism  and  human  rights  violations,  among  many 
others. Providing such support in coordination with the 
efforts undertaken by Afghanistan brings us closer to 
lasting peace.
For  its  part,  Belgium  has  decided  to  increase 
its  military  presence  in  Afghanistan,  which  will 
amount  to  nearly  100  soldiers.  We  will  also  continue 
our  contribution  to  the  humanitarian  effort  as  part 
of  demining  and  economic  and  social  development, 
primarily  through  the  United  Nations  agencies  active 
in  Afghanistan,  coordinated  by  the  United  Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
Secondly, the principle of ownership, which I have 
just mentioned, also applies to the peace process. The 
draft resolution rightly underscores the importance of 
a  peace  process  led  by  the  Afghans  themselves.  The 
Kabul  Process  for  Peace  and  Security  Cooperation, 
launched on 6 June 2017 at the initiative of the Afghan 
Government,  constitutes  an  essential  element.  Other 
initiatives  can  contribute  to  peacebuilding,  but  it  is 
crucial  and  in  the  interest  of  all  to  ensure  that  those 
efforts are mutually reinforcing.
Thirdly,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
welcome  the  election  of  Afghanistan  to  the  Human 
Rights Council. We look forward to working alongside 
Afghanistan in that body. I would also like to commend 
the Afghan Government’s commitments in that regard, 
particularly  with  respect  to  the  rights  of  women  and 
children.  In  particular,  I  welcome  the  establishment 
of  local  child-protection  units,  and  I  encourage  the 
authorities  to  continue  to  address  the  situation  of 
children in detention centres.
Finally,  a  sustained  demining  effort  remains 
essential.  Afghanistan  is  among  the  countries  in  the 
world most heavily affected by landmines, which have 
a  disproportionate  impact  on  children.  We  welcome 
the  achievements  in  the  implementation  of  the  Mine 
Action  Programme  for  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  the 
partial transfer of the management of that programme 
to  the  Directorate  for  Mine  Action  Coordination.  We 
emphasize  the  need  for  continued  efforts  of  that  kind 
and  for  the  adequate  support  of  the  international 
community so that Afghanistan can become mine-free 
by 2023.
In conclusion, I would like once again to underscore 
the ongoing commitment of Belgium to the development 
and lasting security of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Bessho  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  for  convening  this  important  debate.  I 
would  also  like  to  extend  my  sincere  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Christoph  Heusgen  of  Germany  and 
his  colleagues  for  guiding  the  consultations  on  draft 
resolution A/72/L.8, on Afghanistan.
Today  we  welcome  to  the  Hall  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  Chief  Executive  of 
the 
Government  of  Afghanistan,  who  has  reaffirmed  his 
Government’s strong commitment to pursuing Afghan-
led  development,  stabilization  and  anti-corruption 
efforts.  The  response  of  the  international  community 
is  clearly  described  in  the  draft  resolution.  We 
unanimously  express  our  commitment  to  continuing 
to  support  Afghanistan  and  its  people.  However,  our 
responsibility does not end there. The focus is now on 
the implementation of commitments both by the Afghan 
side  and  on  the  part  of  the  international  community. 
We welcome the fact that, in the past year, there have 
been achievements in the political sphere, reform and 
the  strengthening  of  civic  institutions.  However,  we 
also  see  a  rollback  in  economic  development  and  a 
deterioration  in  the  security  situation.  Our  ultimate 
test will be whether Afghanistan achieves self-reliance 
to the point where donors no longer need to announce 
multi-year pledges.
Japan has consistently called on the Government of 
Afghanistan to fulfil its 2014 commitment to equitable 
representation within the National Unity Government. 
We believe that inclusivity is key to political stability 
in  Afghanistan.  Without  it,  genuine  progress  on  an 
Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace  process  that 
provides  significant  security  improvements  cannot 
be attained.
In  that  regard,  the  Kabul  process  meeting  on 
6  June  served  as  a  good  opportunity  for  Afghanistan 
to  show  its  strong  will  to  advance  the  peace  process. 
Japan hopes that the second round of the Kabul process, 
scheduled  for  January  next  year,  will  yield  tangible 
22/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
Japan 
reiterates 
steps that contribute to the peace process. International 
and regional partners must be united in their support. 
Violent  extremism,  which  undermines  the  social  and 
economic stability in Afghanistan, is primarily rooted 
in  weak  governance,  but  the  lack  of  unity  among 
regional stakeholders exacerbates the environment for 
the Afghan Government in overcoming its challenges.
its  appreciation  and  strong 
support  for  the  tireless  work  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA).  The 
Secretary-General’s  strategic  review  of  the  United 
Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan,  which 
Japan welcomes, will serve as important guidance for 
enhancing the Mission’s crucial tasks. Draft resolution 
A/72/L.8,  put  before  the  Assembly  this  morning, 
calls  for  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
of  the  review.  It  is  time  for  the  Security  Council  to 
consider  how  we  can  incorporate  those  findings  into 
the discussion on the renewal of the UNAMA mandate.
A  Japanese  medical  doctor,  Dr.  Tetsu  Nakamura, 
has contributed to the reconstruction of Afghanistan for 
decades through his irrigation development projects. In 
his view, if people have access to water resources, they 
will  have  far  less  reason  to  become  terrorists  or  start 
a  war,  because  water  bring  them  satisfaction  in  life. 
Aware of the fact that the development of an effective 
irrigation system offers a strong potential for improving 
agricultural  production,  which  is  the  primary  driver 
of  economic  growth  in  Afghanistan,  the  Government 
of  Japan,  together  with  the  Afghan  Government  and 
international  organizations,  support  the  efforts  of 
Dr.  Nakamura.  The  Afghanistan  National  Peace  and 
Development  Framework  underscores  the  importance 
of agriculture.
Japan  is  eager  to  witness  concrete  progress  in 
development and is committed to assisting Afghanistan 
on  its  path  towards  self-reliance  and  a  mutually 
beneficial relationship with its neighbours and with the 
international community at large.
Mr.  Mahfouz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  Egypt  welcomes  the  consensus  reached  by 
members  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  adoption 
of  the  important  draft  resolution  A/72/L.8  —  a  draft 
resolution that has been adopted every year. We have 
always reaffirmed the vital role played by the General 
Assembly  and  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission 
in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA),  in  particular  in  the  light 
of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/72/312)  on 
the strategic review, which was launched to assess the 
work,  activities  and  effectiveness  of  that  important 
United Nations Mission. The review demonstrates the 
need for the vital role played by the General Assembly 
in Afghanistan.
In  the  light  of  the  alignment  of  interests  and  the 
need  to  ensure  conditions  conducive  to  stability 
in  Central  Asia  and  the  Middle  East,  Egypt  has 
consistently  supported  the  Afghan  Government  in 
its  fight  against  terrorism  and  its  concerted  efforts 
to  extend  its  control  and  sovereignty  throughout  the 
country. We also welcome the early preparations to hold 
elections, set for mid-2018. In addition, we support the 
Afghan authorities in their political and social efforts 
to bring about security, development and prosperity for 
all Afghan people.
We underscore that the trafficking of illicit drugs, 
in particular opium, threatens the stability and security 
of  Afghanistan  and  the  entire  Central  Asian  region. 
In  that  regard,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of  close 
cooperation with the Afghan authorities at the regional 
and  international  levels  on  counter-narcotics,  which 
cannot  be  separated  from  counter-terrorism  efforts, 
since  drugs  are  a  primary  source  of  financing  for 
terrorist groups and armed militias.
In  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions  and  reports  of  the  Secretary-General,  the 
international community has acknowledged the threat 
posed by the growing presence of the Islamic State in 
Iraq and the Levant, or Da’esh, in Afghanistan, which 
has  strengthened  and  expanded  its  presence  in  the 
country. Terrorism is a scourge that must be overcome 
by  all  possible  means.  We  must  seek  to  suppress  its 
evil  through  a  comprehensive  international  strategic 
framework  aimed  at  countering  extremist  ideologies 
in general.
In  that  regard,  Egypt  pledges  to  continue  its 
specialized  high-level  training  programmes  for  the 
Afghan  military  and  police,  administered  by  the 
Egyptian Agency of Partnership for Development. We 
will  also  continue  our  efforts  to  support  the  judicial, 
cultural, medical, nursing, agricultural, irrigation and 
banking sectors, since we believe in the comprehensive 
capacity-building  of  all  Afghan  national  institutions. 
Egypt acknowledges the common international objective 
to which we aspire, namely, to build the capacities of the 
Afghan State so as to achieve peace, stability, security 
and  sustainable  development  throughout  the  country. 
17-39043
23/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
Egypt  therefore  calls  on  all  international  Powers  and 
stakeholders, as well as the international community, to 
continue to meet their obligations towards Afghanistan.
Mr.  Carlucci  (Italy):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
expressing  our  sincere  appreciation  to  Germany  for 
its  capable  facilitation  of  a  difficult,  yet  ultimately 
successful,  negotiation  on  today’s  draft  resolution 
A/72/L.8.  We  are  proud  to  co-sponsor  the  draft 
resolution to be adopted today. Allow me also to extend 
our thanks to Mr. Abdullah Abdullah for his presence 
today, which honours us.
Italy remains deeply concerned about the security 
situation  in  Afghanistan,  where  terrorists  and  violent 
extremists  continue  to  pose  a  grave  threat  to  the 
stability of the country, thereby severely hampering its 
potential for economic growth and development.
The  latest  reports  on  civilian  casualties  from  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
paint  a  telling  picture.  We  continue  to  observe  a 
worrying  increase  in  civilian  casualties,  especially 
among vulnerable groups, such as women and children. 
We note with particular concern the increase in attacks 
directed against religious groups and places of worship. 
Since  January  2016,  such  casualties  have  risen  to  a 
higher  level  than  the  total  number  recorded  in  the 
period between 2009 and 2015.
Under those circumstances, it is imperative for us to 
renew the full support of the international community 
to the National Unity Government’s efforts to achieve 
lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan. We continue 
to work together to defeat the terrorist threat in all its 
manifestations, as well as to facilitate the pursuit of an 
Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process.
Italy reiterates its conviction that the best path to 
peace  and  stability  lies  in  a  peaceful  and  negotiated 
solution  through  an  inclusive  reconciliation  process, 
while  ensuring  the  participation  of  all  segments  of 
Afghan society, especially women. That process must 
work  towards  a  solution  that  respects  the  Afghan 
Constitution  and  the  fundamental  rights  enshrined 
therein for all Afghan men and women.
Italy  supports  all  initiatives  that  can  lay  the 
foundation for that objective, first and foremost through 
the  Kabul  process.  In  that  context,  we  underline  the 
importance  of  the  constructive  cooperation  of  all 
international  stakeholders,  especially  regional  actors. 
The overall stability of South and Central Asia cannot 
be  separated  from  the  resolution  of  the  conflict  in 
Afghanistan. It is our hope that all of the region’s main 
actors  will  be  able  to  converge  around  that  common 
interest, while building towards genuine cooperation in 
order to achieve that goal.
In  order  to  support  the  peace  and  reconciliation 
process,  it  is  equally  crucial  for  the  Afghan  National 
Defence  and  Security  Forces  to  be  able  to  effectively 
repel  the  continued  attempts  by  insurgent  groups 
to  violently  destabilize  the  country.  Strengthening 
the  capabilities  of  the  Afghan  National  Defence  and 
Security  Forces  is  an  essential  goal  in  that  respect. 
We  pay  tribute  to  their  courage  and  sacrifice  on  the 
battlefield.  Italy  will  continue  to  play  an  active  role 
in  that  regard  in  the  context  of  the  training,  advising 
and assistance activities carried out by the NATO-led 
Resolute Support Mission.
Faced  with  such  complex  challenges,  which 
go  beyond  security,  it  is  crucial  that  the  citizens  of 
Afghanistan be empowered so that they can continue to 
place their trust in the country’s democratic institutions. 
The legislative and district elections planned for 2018 
will  constitute  a  crucial  moment  in  that  regard,  and 
their  transparency,  credibility  and  inclusiveness  must 
be ensured. To that end, the completion of the remaining 
aspects of electoral reform is essential. In the light of 
recent developments, we hope that the Government and 
the  relevant  Afghan  institutions  can  work  together  to 
make every effort to achieve that objective.
In  order  to  build  a  positive  trajectory  of  hope, 
development and self-reliance for Afghanistan and its 
citizens,  we  encourage  the  effective  implementation 
of  the  internal  reforms  to  which  the  Government 
committed at the Brussels Conference on Afghanistan 
last year in the framework of its partnership with the 
international community.
The  fight  against  corruption  in  all  sectors  is 
certainly one of the most important in that regard. Italy 
welcomes the measures already undertaken, including 
the  Government’s  recent  anti-corruption  strategy, 
which must now be put into practice and deliver tangible 
results. Concrete progress in areas such as justice, the 
rule of law and the promotion and protection of human 
rights,  especially  women’s  and  children’s  rights,  will 
be  equally  important.  The  gains  made  in  terms  of 
women’s  rights  in  Afghanistan  over  the  past  16  years 
are undeniable, but they are still fragile when it comes 
to  violence  against  women,  female  empowerment 
24/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
and  girls’  education,  as  demonstrated  by  the  fact  that 
female  literacy  rates  remain  very  low.  We  welcome 
the  Afghan  Government’s  commitment  to  protecting 
and promoting women’s rights, and we encourage it to 
intensify its efforts in that domain.
In  conclusion,  the  road  to  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity is one that Afghanistan and the international 
community  must  continue  to  pursue  together.  While 
reaffirming once again its commitment to the country 
and people of Afghanistan, Italy will continue to be a 
strong believer in that partnership.
Mr.  Panayotov  (Bulgaria):  Allow  me  to  begin 
by  expressing  my  gratitude  to  the  President  for 
convening  this  important  annual  debate.  I  would 
also  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  Chief 
Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and 
his participation today. I would also like to thank the 
Permanent Mission of Germany for all its efforts, which 
have  resulted  in  consensus  on  the  draft  resolution  on 
the situation in Afghanistan (A/72/L.8), which Bulgaria 
has co-sponsored.
itself  with 
My  country  aligns 
the  statement 
made  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  its 
member  States  and  reiterates  the  common  messages 
taken  from  the  conclusions  on  the  humanitarian 
situation in Afghanistan reached by the Council of the 
European  Union  in  October,  as  well  as  the  long-term 
commitments set out in the EU strategy for engagement 
and cooperation with Afghanistan. I would like to make 
additional remarks in my national capacity.
Bulgaria shares the determination of all our allies 
to  help  build  defence  and  security  institutions  in  that 
country and make Afghanistan safer and more secure. 
That also includes our support for the National Unity 
Government’s efforts to establish a safe and democratic 
environment  in  the  country  and  region,  and  for  the 
international efforts, which contribute significantly to 
achieving that objective, in particular the new United 
States strategy on Afghanistan and South Asia.
Bulgaria  remains  committed  to  the  long-term 
support of NATO, which is driven by the understanding 
that  a  secure  and  prosperous  Afghanistan  is  vital  for 
the stability of the region and beyond. Our participation 
in the NATO-led Resolute Support Mission continues, 
with  an  increased  contingent  of  up  to  160  Bulgarian 
soldiers.  Bulgaria  also  contributes  financially  to  the 
Afghanistan National Army Trust Fund.
The volatile security and humanitarian environment 
makes  the  unity  of  the  Afghan  Government  and  its 
perseverance  in  reforms  critically  important.  The 
pursuit of the ongoing reforms aimed at achieving a more 
effective  Government  that  further  increase  political 
inclusiveness and reinforce accountability must remain 
a priority. We fully support the Government’s efforts, 
in  particular  in  areas  such  as  good  governance,  the 
rule  of  law,  institution-building  and  the  fight  against 
corruption and narcotics, as well as gender and social 
issues, where further reforms are needed.
Bulgaria  attaches  particular  importance  to  the 
ongoing peace and reconciliation efforts and expresses 
support for constructive Afghan-led and Afghan-owned 
peace talks. We hope that the Kabul Process for Peace 
and Security will significantly contribute to achieving 
success in that regard.
Regional support and cooperation are also essential 
for  the  security  and  development  of  Afghanistan.  We 
commend regional initiatives, such as the Heart of Asia-
Istanbul Process on Regional Security and Cooperation 
for a Secure and Stable Afghanistan and the Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan, 
and encourage regional actors to engage in a credible 
manner with the efforts to achieve peace in the country, 
as well as its economic integration.
The United Nations support for electoral reforms, 
peace  and  reconciliation,  human  rights  and  women’s 
issues  will  continue  to  be  crucial  as  well.  We  are 
confident that, on the basis of the strategic review to be 
discussed early next year by the Security Council, the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan will 
remain well-positioned to deliver on its tasks.
Bulgaria  has  been  a 
long-term  partner  of 
Afghanistan —  a  partner  for  peace  and  development. 
Our  engagement  was  officially  reconfirmed  at  the 
International Conference in Brussels in October 2016, 
and  we  maintain  our  contributions,  including  within 
the  framework  of  Bulgaria’s  official  development 
assistance  policy,  by  organizing  training  courses  for 
diplomats, police officers and other civil servants from 
Afghan  institutions.  Mindful  of  the  need  to  address 
the challenges of migration and forced displacement in 
Afghanistan, in particular the vulnerability of children, 
this  year  Bulgaria  has  taken  part  in  the  humanitarian 
response  by  contributing  to  the  programmes  and 
projects  on  those  topics  run  by  UNICEF  and  the 
International Organization for Migration.
17-39043
25/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  my  country’s  full 
support  for  Afghanistan  and  the  work  carried  out  by 
the United Nations in the quest for peace in the country.
Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
The  delegation  of  Turkmenistan  would  like  to  thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  preparing  the  reports  on 
the  strategic  review  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan (A/72/312) and on the situation 
in  Afghanistan  and  its  implications  for  international 
peace  and  security  (A/72/392).  The  delegation  of 
Turkmenistan  supports  the  draft  resolution  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/72/L.8),  which  we  have 
co-sponsored.  We  furthermore  support  the  consensus 
in that regard.
We  extend  our  gratitude  to  the  delegation  of 
Germany  as  the  facilitator  of  the  draft  resolution, 
and  we  thank  it  for  its  consistent  proactive  approach 
in  that  process.  On  the  whole,  Turkmenistan  fully 
supports  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan and expresses its gratitude for 
the long-term commitment and support on the part of 
the United Nations to the Government and the people 
of Afghanistan.
Turkmenistan  attaches  particular 
importance 
to  relations  with  that  neighbouring  State  and  to  the 
contributions  by  the  international  community  to  the 
creation  of  conditions  for  that  country’s  sustainable 
development,  its  full  integration  into  regional and 
global  processes  and  the  establishment  of  lasting 
peace  and  harmony  in  the  country.  We  consistently 
deliver assistance to Afghanistan within various areas 
of  socioeconomic  development, 
including  energy, 
transport development, education and health care.
We  believe  that  the  key  issue  for  Afghanistan  is 
the  development  of  its  socioeconomic  infrastructure. 
Turkmenistan  is  convinced  that  economic  growth, 
the creation of new jobs, the implementation of broad 
social programmes, the improvement of material well-
being and the level of education of its people positively 
affect  the  situation  in  the  country  and  contribute  to 
strengthening peace and stability there.
On 14 and 15 November, Turkmenistan hosted the 
seventh  Regional  Economic  Cooperation  Conference 
on  Afghanistan.  Its  agenda  featured  a  wide  range  of 
issues concerning the prospects for further developing 
constructive  partnerships  with  a  view  to  achieving 
the goals of common prosperity and progress. During 
the  Conference,  special  attention  was  paid  to  the 
implementation  of  transport  and  energy  projects  with 
the  participation  of  Afghanistan.  Such  projects  seek 
to  promote  Afghanistan’s  integration  into  regional 
and  international  economic  exchanges,  full  trade 
relations,  the  attraction  of  large  investments  and  the 
creation  of  new  jobs.  In  that  context,  the  following 
initiatives  are  noteworthy:  the  construction  of  the 
Turkmenistan–Afghanistan–Pakistan–India 
gas 
pipeline project, the development of the Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Tajikistan  regional  railway  corridor  and 
the  implementation  of  a  number  of  other  projects 
aimed at creating a modern, diversified transport and 
communications  infrastructure  in  the  region  in  the 
east-west and north-south directions.
As was mentioned previously by the Chief Executive 
of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  of  particular 
importance  in  the  work  of  the  seventh  Regional 
Conference was the signing of a five-sided agreement 
on the establishment of the international Lapis Lazuli 
Transit, Trade and Transport Route linking Afghanistan, 
Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, which 
will offer new opportunities for increasing the volumes 
of  cargo  transported  along  that  route.  At  the  same 
time,  that  transport  corridor  will  help  to  strengthen 
cooperation over a wide economic area, including the 
regions  of  Central  and  South  Asia,  the  Caspian  and 
Black Sea basins and the Mediterranean. The holding of 
the seventh Regional Conference, in Ashgabat, provided 
another effective way of strengthening and expanding 
constructive interaction in that connection by bringing 
regional  economic  cooperation  to  a  qualitatively  new 
level and working towards our multi-faceted potential 
and constructive goals.
We  call  upon  Afghanistan  and  regional  partners 
to sustain the momentum and continue their efforts to 
strengthen regional dialogue and cooperation. We also 
call for consistent targeted assistance to be provided to 
the people and the Government of Afghanistan in the 
interest  of  building  peace  and  stability  and  ensuring 
State-building in the country.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  Chief  Executive  of  Afghanistan, 
Mr.  Abdullah  Abdullah,  for  his  statement.  We  also 
thank  the  delegation  of  Germany  for  facilitating  the 
negotiations  on  draft  resolution  A/72/L.8,  which 
Azerbaijan is pleased to co-sponsor. We look forward 
to its unanimous adoption.
26/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.56
Azerbaijan commends the efforts of the Government 
of  Afghanistan  to  implement  political,  economic  and 
social  reforms  and  address  the  country’s  complex 
security  issues.  The  country’s  well-being,  economic 
growth and regional cooperation are interlinked and are 
dependent  upon  the  security  situation  in  Afghanistan 
and  in  the  region.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
demonstrate  our  resolve  and  strong  will  to  continue 
jointly  addressing  the  security  challenges  that  the 
country is facing and enhance regional cooperation to 
that end.
to  Afghanistan  are  crucial 
Continued regional and international commitment 
and  assistance 
for 
maintaining  the  progress  made  so  far  and  for  efforts 
to fulfil the country’s aspiration to achieve long-term 
peace, stability and prosperity. Enhanced engagement 
between Afghanistan and its neighbours is essential for 
the  peaceful  and  stable  future  of  the  country  and  the 
region. We commend Afghanistan’s efforts to integrate 
with  the  regional  and  global  economies  and  develop 
trade  with  its  neighbours  and  other  partners  through 
increased regional connectivity.
Over 
the  years,  Afghanistan  has 
fostered 
regional  cooperation  and  has  successfully  developed 
transregional 
infrastructure  with  multimodal 
capabilities  along  the  east-west  and  north-south  axes. 
The Baku International Sea Trade Port and the recently 
opened  Baku-Tbilisi-Kars  railway  will  help  develop 
transport  and  transit  links,  provide  fast  and  reliable 
connections,  increase  trade  and  make  new  business 
opportunities  available  for  Afghanistan  and  other 
countries in the region.
Azerbaijan participates in the relevant international 
and  regional  political  initiatives  aimed  at  promoting 
peace,  stability  and  sustainable  development 
in 
Afghanistan,  including  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul 
Process  on  Regional  Security  and  Cooperation,  with 
a  focus  on  ensuring  a  secure  and  stable  Afghanistan. 
Since  its  inception,  in  2011,  the  Istanbul  Process  has 
become  an  effective  regional  platform  for  enhanced 
cooperation, confidence-building and dialogue.
The 
forthcoming  Heart  of  Asia  Ministerial 
Conference, to be held on 1 December in Baku on the 
theme “Security and Economic Connectivity: Towards 
a  Strengthened  Heart  of  Asia  Region”,  will  provide 
an  important  opportunity  for  discussions  among  the 
major stakeholders on a wide range of issues, including 
peace,  security,  economic  prosperity  and  social 
for  Afghanistan’s  sovereignty, 
welfare in the region. We will continue to support the 
stabilization, peaceful reconstruction and development 
of  Afghanistan  through  bilateral  cooperation  and  the 
relevant multilateral, international and regional formats.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Azerbaijan’s 
support 
territorial 
integrity  and  unity.  We  wish  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  every  success  in  its  efforts  to  achieve  a 
unified, peaceful and prosperous future for the country.
Mr.  Sadykov  (Kazakhstan):  I  would  like  to 
start  by  paying  tribute  to  President  Asharaf  Ghani 
and  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Afghanistan, Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, for their valiant 
and  selfless  commitment,  and  I  take  this  opportunity 
to wish the Government and the people of Afghanistan 
every  success  in  their  efforts  to  achieve  peace  and 
stability.  My  delegation  would  like  to  share  the 
following observations.
Kazakhstan  welcomes  the  intensified  efforts  of 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  its  regional  and 
international  partners  to  resolve  the  internal  political 
crisis and establish peace in the country. My delegation 
is of the firm view that there is no alternative to a peaceful 
solution  to  the  problems  in  Afghanistan.  We  express 
the hope that the measures taken by the Government of 
Afghanistan and its international partners to reconcile 
parties and establish peace will serve as the basis for a 
good dialogue with positive results for the future.
It  is  heartening  to  note  that  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan  received  special  attention  at  the  historic 
Summit  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization 
held  in  Astana  on  8  and  9  June,  to  which  India  and 
Pakistan  were  admitted  as  full-fledged  members. 
We  are  confident  that,  with  the  entry  of  those  States 
into 
the 
solution  of  regional  concerns  —  including  those  of 
Afghanistan — will move more dynamically.
the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization, 
We  believe  that  consultations  on  Afghanistan  in 
various  formats  are  important  and  necessary  in  order 
to  overcome  political  differences  and  work  together 
to  promote  peace  negotiations.  It  is  equally  vital  to 
focus  on  strengthening  intra-regional  relations  with 
neighbouring countries.
The  efforts  of  regional  organizations  such  as  the 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  and  the 
Conference  on  Interaction  and  Confidence-building 
17-39043
27/29
A/72/PV.56 
20/11/2017
in 
Measures  in  Asia,  together  with  the  Heart  of  Asia-
Istanbul  Process,  are  significant 
the 
foundations  for  stability.  Afghanistan  is  one  of  our 
priorities as a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council. In January 2018, during our presidency of the 
Council,  we  plan  to  hold  an  open  debate  on  building 
a  regional  partnership  involving  Afghanistan  and 
Central Asia.
laying 
We  note  the  deteriorating  security  situation  in 
Afghanistan.  The  series  of  recent  major  terrorist 
attacks  in  the  country  require  the  entire  international 
community to take decisive actions to eradicate those 
threats. Kazakhstan is concerned about the emergence 
of well-known radical terrorist groups in the north of 
Afghanistan  and  the  escalating  threats  that  they  pose 
to the security of States in Central Asia, as well as to 
Afghanistan itself. The situation in Afghanistan plays 
a  special  role  in  ensuring  the  long-term  stability  of 
the  entire  region.  Kazakhstan  therefore  fully  shares 
and supports the vision of Secretary-General Guterres 
aimed at strengthening preventive diplomacy.
The  increased  drug  production  in  Afghanistan 
is  alarming.  It  is  clear  that  only  joint  efforts  at  the 
international  and  regional  levels  can  achieve  positive 
results  in  the  fight  against  drug  trafficking.  In  that 
regard,  it  is  necessary  to  support  the  coordinated 
measures  taken  by  the  Government  of  Afghanistan, 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime, 
INTERPOL 
the  Central  Asian  Regional 
Information and Coordination Centre to combat illicit 
trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances 
and their precursors.
and 
The  humanitarian  situation  in  Afghanistan  has 
deteriorated  considerably.  Consequently,  the  civilian 
population, especially the elderly, women and children, 
are suffering the most. Attacks on schools and school 
staff are also an alarming trend, as they impede access 
to education and to a return to normal living conditions. 
We  call  for  the  adoption  of  comprehensive  measures 
to  assist  Afghanistan  in  meeting  its  challenges  in  the 
humanitarian sphere.
Kazakhstan has always considered, and continues 
to  believe, 
that  security  and  development  are 
interrelated  and  that  it  is  necessary  to  promote  them 
on  parallel  tracks.  Bearing  that  in  mind,  Kazakhstan 
has provided, and will continue to provide, assistance 
to  further  Afghanistan’s  development.  In  recent 
years,  Kazakhstan  has  provided  assistance  worth 
approximately $100 million to cover free education  for 
1,000  Afghan  students  through  studies  in  specialized 
institutions in Kazakhstan.
The  Government  of  Kazakhstan  will  also  invest 
in  the  reconstruction  of  the  Kunduz-Takhar  highway, 
together with the construction of a school in the Dara-
I-Suf district of Samangan province and a hospital in 
the  Waras  district  of  Bamyan  province.  A  bridge  is 
also being built, and the banks of the Aibak River are 
being reinforced in Samangan province. In view of the 
drought and natural disasters in Afghanistan in recent 
months, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
has  decided  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to 
Afghanistan in the form of food supplies, which we will 
send in the near future.
We consider it important to change the paradigm in 
Afghanistan and the way in which it has been perceived 
thus far. It should no longer be seen as a threat but an 
important partner with great potential. In that context, 
we  should  help  to  connect  Afghanistan  with  other 
countries in the region, including those in Central Asia, 
mainly through economic integration. Such integration 
can be further enabled by creating new infrastructure, 
trade investment and transit transport projects.
In  order  to  achieve  those  objectives,  we  deem  it 
essential  to  create  the  United  Nations  regional  centre 
in  Almaty,  in  order  to  consolidate  the  work  of  the  18 
regional and subregional offices of the United Nations 
system  already  situated  in  the  city  of  Almaty.  The 
centre  would  coordinate  and  implement  all  activities 
with a view to promoting sustainable development and 
economic  capacity-building  and  preventing  natural 
and  man-made  disasters,  as  well  as  overcoming  their 
consequences.  We  believe  that  the  centre  in  Almaty, 
with  a  general  focus  on  socioeconomic  development, 
humanitarian 
and 
disaster risk reduction, could substantially complement 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for 
Preventive  Diplomacy  in  Central  Asia.  Those  two 
regional  offices  of  the  United  Nations  would,  in  a 
way,  address  almost  the  entire  range  of  problems  in 
the region and overcome them with a view to bringing 
greater stability to the region.
resilience-building 
assistance, 
To  conclude, 
let  me  confirm  Kazakhstan’s 
most  sincere  commitment  to  supporting  the  Afghan 
Government  in  its  efforts  to  achieve  peace,  security 
and stability.
28/29 
17-39043
20/11/2017 
Organization of work
The Acting President: Before concluding, I should 
like to consult members regarding an extension of the 
work  of  the  Second  Committee.  Members  will  recall 
that at its second plenary meeting, on 15 September, the 
General Assembly approved the recommendation of the 
General Committee that the Second Committee would 
complete its work by Wednesday, 22 November.
However,  I  have  been  informed  by  the  Chair  of 
the  Second  Committee  that  the  Committee  requests 
A/72/PV.56
an extension of its work to Thursday, 30 November, in 
view  of  the  expectation  that  such  an  extension  would 
facilitate  reaching  consensus  on  the  pending  draft 
resolutions before the Committee.
May I therefore take it that the General Assembly 
agrees  to  extend  the  work  of  the  Second  Committee 
until Thursday, 30 November 2017?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
17-39043
29/29
