United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
11th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 September 2017, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.11
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Aleksandar Vučić, 
President of the Republic of Serbia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Serbia.
into 
Mr.  Aleksandar  Vučić,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Serbia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Aleksandar  Vučić,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Serbia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President Vučić: I would like to take this opportunity 
to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  assuming  your  important 
duties.  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson  on  his  successful  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-first session and to avail myself 
of this opportunity to thank and pay tribute to the new 
Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, for his active 
engagement during the first year of his tenure in such a 
remarkably responsible post and for initiating a reform 
process of great importance to the Organization.
It is my great honour to address the Assembly for 
the first time in this Hall in my capacity as President of 
the Republic of Serbia. We have carefully followed the 
addresses made by world leaders over the past two days, 
and  it  seems  that  it  would  be  no  exaggeration  to  say 
that almost everybody has spoken about the necessity 
of the reform of the United Nations and about peace and 
stability, often accusing someone else — an opposing 
party  —  of  acting  to  prevent  peace  and  stability  or 
being responsible for a difficult situation in the world. I 
will do my best to avoid such an approach.
Last  year,  in  this  very  Hall,  it  was  said  that  the 
situation worldwide was difficult. Today it is certainly 
more difficult than it was a year ago. Today, I take this 
opportunity to speak before the Assembly, not to attack 
those  who  cannot  defend  themselves  or  those  who 
would not be able to defend themselves from the truth. 
I  will  speak  about  Serbia,  its  people,  its  re-entering 
of the world, and the fact that the world is once again 
accepting  and  embracing  Serbia  and  Serbia  is  trying 
to  understand  the  world,  even  if  sometimes  it  might 
not agree with the great Powers. Unlike some leaders, 
I  have  no  need  to  patronize  my  people  or  to  run  an 
election  or  non-election  campaign  from  this  rostrum, 
because we have already won all our internal political 
battles. That is why I will speak about Serbia today and 
Serbia in the future, as well as the future of the entire 
Western Balkans region, where I come from.
It  important  to  speak  about  the  entire  Balkans, 
especially its Western part, because without broader and 
more serious insight into the problem we are facing, we 
will not be able to see, let alone resolve, our individual 
problems. I would like to share a quote from our famous 
writer, Isidora Sekulić, who said the following:
“A  peninsula  is  a  separate  world.  Countries 
and nations within it, as if embarked on one boat, 
must  have  one  common  political  problem  and  a 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29579 (E)
*1729579*
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
political ideal, no matter how different they might 
usually be. The Balkans comes first, before all the 
countries in the Balkans, whenever the moment is 
difficult and dangerous, regardless of whether it is 
dangerous  politically  or  in  terms  of  culture.  Will 
the Balkans for once open its sleepy eyes and see 
its  paramount  cultural  capacity,  if  it  plunges  as 
a whole?”
Condition number one for a prosperous future for 
all  of  us  in  that  region  is  how  to  preserve  peace  and 
tranquillity.  The  Republic  of  Serbia  invests  a  great 
deal of effort in stabilizing the situation in the region, 
which is our permanent commitment and policy. As we 
have done so far, we will continue to work devotedly 
and  committedly  to  promote  regional  stability  and 
cooperation, because we believe that it is an investment 
in a better tomorrow for all of us. In order to achieve 
success today and progress in the future, it is necessary, 
no  matter  how  pathetic  that  might  seem,  to  preserve 
peace  and  stability  at  all  costs.  This  is  a  priority 
sociopolitical  task  that  requires  daily  hard  work  and 
learning. That in turn will help economic growth and 
reforms, which are a prerequisite for a better life, not 
only for the poor but also for the middle classes.
In previous years, we in Serbia demonstrated that 
with  responsible  politics  of  fiscal  consolidation,  even 
without  huge  privatization  incomes,  we  could  create 
a  budget  surplus.  We  lowered  the  unemployment  rate 
from 26 per cent to 12 per cent and created a flexible 
labour market by introducing modern laws, even though 
doing  that  has  proved  difficult  for  some  far  stronger 
countries in the developed West. Above all else, I am 
proud that we have begun to invest in the creativity of 
our young people and that digitalization and artificial 
intelligence  are  becoming  important  topics  in  Serbia, 
not just in the most developed countries of the world.
Of  course,  there  are  still  many  things  that  we 
must deliver. When a person comes from the Western 
Balkans the first question is whether we will be part of 
some new conflict or whether we will opt for a better 
and  more  carefree  future.  In  spite  of  its  numerous 
challenges, Serbia will continue investing in efforts to 
create conditions for better relations within the region 
that are based on mutual respect and commitment to a 
common European future.
Today  I  would  particularly  like  to  mention  the 
political  issues  in  the  region  and  Belgrade’s  relations 
the  paramount 
with  Pristina.  Bearing 
in  mind 
importance  of  this  issue  for  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  I 
underline once again that reaching a political solution to 
the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a national priority 
for Serbia. It is an issue that has a huge effect not only 
on  our  economy  but  also  on  a  clear  future  for  young 
people both in Serbia and in the entire region.
We all know that we do not recognize the unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  of  so-called  Kosovo,  but 
I  will  not  speak  about  disrespect  for  our  territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty.  Instead,  I  will  speak  about 
our  efforts  to  resolve  the  problem  and  to  try  to  find 
a  solution  to  a  centuries-long  problem  that  the  great 
Powers were not helpful with back in 1999 and 2008. 
I will speak about our efforts to talk about the future 
with Albanian leaders from Pristina.
Yesterday  we  all  listened  to  Michael  Bloomberg 
saying that it is better to spend thousands of hours talking 
than  one  minute  fighting.  Everything  that  has  been 
achieved so far through the Brussels dialogue has been 
the  result  of  difficult  compromises  and  unambiguous 
concessions on both sides, albeit mostly on ours. The 
significant  progress  reached  throughout  this  process 
confirms the constructiveness and commitment of the 
Republic of Serbia to this dialogue.
We have also demonstrated our readiness to make 
compromises  that  were  not  easy,  thereby  helping  to 
find  mutually  acceptable  solutions  to  many  complex 
issues. I want to emphasize that in the past four years, 
after  we  started  the  dialogue  process  in  Brussels, 
although  there  have  been  some  fights,  quarrels  and 
physical  attacks  against  the  Serbs  in  the  territory  of 
Kosovo and Metohija, nobody has been killed in ethnic 
confrontations.  For  Serbs  and  for  Albanians,  this  is  a 
great step forward, and I am therefore eager to continue 
with such political efforts in the future.
Nevertheless, upon entering this Hall, we received 
information  that  Pristina’s  authorities  had  announced 
that they had secured the majority needed for Kosovo 
to  gain  membership  status  in  UNESCO.  I  urge  the 
Assembly not to allow this, and remind members that it 
was these very people who took part in the devastation 
of  Serbian  monasteries,  churches  and  cultural  and 
spiritual heritage sites in Kosovo and Metohija.
Additionally,  we  have  made  great  efforts 
to 
stabilize the overall situation in the Balkans. We have 
often  stayed  silent  in  the  face  of  insults  and  attacks 
from  various  other  countries  because  we  know  that 
peace  and  reconciliation  are  more  important  than 
2/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
scoring easy political points. Precisely because of that, 
Serbs are more than eager to continue with successful 
economic reforms, as well as with the idea for creating 
a  regional  economic  zone,  which  we  do  not  intend  to 
give up on.
The former Yugoslavia was widely respected as a 
market  and  for  its  success  in  attracting  investors  and 
international  attention.  Today,  we  are  too  small  to 
succeed as individual markets. I therefore firmly believe 
that a unique customs zone and taxation system are the 
future  of  the  region.  An  example  of  the  problems  we 
have is that a farmer producing milk only 10 kilometres 
from the border loses at least 7 to 8 per cent of his profit 
by waiting 48 hours to cross into another country. I also 
believe that a better, improved economy is the second 
biggest task for all our nations and for Serbia as well.
The third issue — no less important than the first 
and  second  —  is  uniting  the  big  tasks  of  economic 
progress with our aspirations to European Union (EU) 
membership.  The  path  to  membership  in  the  EU,  our 
most  important  trade  and  investment  partner,  is  seen 
as leading to greater stability, economic progress and 
the consolidation of democracy. In previous years, the 
EU  enlargement  policy  for  Western  Balkan  countries 
has been one of the most powerful instruments in the 
political and economic transformation of the countries 
of the region into stable and modern societies.
We  believe  that  this  policy,  regardless  of  all  the 
difficulties existing within the EU itself as well as in 
the candidate countries and potential candidates, must 
continue, and on an equally strong basis. We all want 
to  be  a  part  of  the  EU,  but  sometimes  people  in  the 
Balkans  and  people  in  Serbia  are  treated  unfairly,  in 
contrast  to  those  who  took  that  route  earlier.  We  are 
asking the EU not to speed up our accession process but 
to treat us fairly and, at least to some extent, in the same 
manner that it treated some of the full-fledged Member 
States admitted after 2003.
As all are aware, Serbs are a very dignified people, 
and we expect all other countries of the world to respect  
us  as  we  respect  them  and  their  territorial  integrity 
and  sovereignty.  We  have  never  wanted  nor  will  we 
ever  want  something  that  belongs  to  somebody  else. 
We ask only for equal respect for our country and its 
people.  I  am  proud  that  Serbia  protects  its  freedom, 
independence  and  sovereignty  and  is  a  country  that 
observes democratic principles. We will continue along 
that  path  and  never  give  up  the  politics  of  military 
neutrality, because we believe that it is the politics of 
peace and the future.
While  we  strive  towards  joining  the  EU  and 
establishing  partnerships  with  Western  countries, 
including  by  improving  our  relations  with  the  United 
States, we continue to cherish the best possible relations 
with the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic 
of China. Not only are we not ashamed of those good 
relations, we are very proud of them. But we will always 
be ready to observe developments in today’s world by 
not  judging  superficially  what  is  right  or  wrong,  just 
or unjust. We have never threatened anybody, nor will 
we, but we will always dare to condemn actions such 
as launching a missile that forces the inhabitants of the 
Japanese island of Hokkaido to spend a day or a night 
in shelters.
I would like to remind members that the courageous 
and  wise  American  President  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower 
was prudent enough to say that
“every gun that is made, every warship launched, 
every  rocket  fired  signifies,  in  the  final  sense,  a 
theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those 
who are cold and are not clothed”.
Likewise, we will always show care for and solidarity 
with  Syrian,  Afghan,  sub-Saharan  or  any  other 
refugees, without diminishing our resolve to confront 
international terrorism and radical Islamic movements 
such  as  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  or 
Al-Qaida, because we believe that a democratic society 
based on equal rights for all is the only society that we 
want to live and see our future in.
We  recognize  that  fighting  poverty  and  social 
inequality in the context of preventing radicalism and 
strengthening extremism is a very important task. We 
champion  the  integration  of  citizens  of  all  religions 
and political and other affiliations into modern society 
on  a  basis  of  common  values,  while  preserving  each 
person’s individual identity and respect for all.
Serbia  believes 
in  and 
is  pleased  with 
the 
increasingly  important  role  of  the  United  Nations, 
not only in maintaining peace and stability, but in the 
more important tasks the Organization performs for the 
benefit  of  humankind  today.  Serbia  will  support  any 
United Nations reform that strengthens the role of the 
Organization,  because  it  means  more  discussion,  less 
use of force and less arrogance in international relations. 
17-29579
3/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
Our job is therefore to do everything we can to enable 
a more active role for the United Nations worldwide.
I will conclude with words that are often attributed 
to the great Albert Einstein:
“The  world  is  a  dangerous  place  to  live.  Not 
because of the people who are evil, but because of 
the people who do not do anything about it.”
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Aleksandar  Vučić,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Serbia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Jovenel Moïse, President of the 
Republic of Haiti
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Haiti.
Mr.  Jovenel  Moïse,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Jovenel Moïse, President of the Republic 
of Haiti, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Moïse (spoke in French): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  convey  our  sincere  congratulations  to 
you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over this 
session of the General Assembly.
Today,  all  eyes  rightly  turn  to  the  United  Nations, 
whose mission has never been so essential. That is why 
we must pursue the reform process started years ago, in 
order to better adapt our Organization to modern reality 
so  that  it  can  effectivelyattain  the  goals  enshrined  in 
the  founding  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
connection,  I  welcome  the  vision  and  leadership  of 
Secretary-General António Guterres. I hope that under 
his  able  leadership,  the  Organization  can  honour  the 
commitments and initiatives aimed at improving living 
conditions for everyone on our planet and enabling the 
United Nations to confront global threats and prevent 
and resolve conflicts.
The Republic of Haiti fully supports any initiative 
that reduces international tensions, defuses crises and 
achieves  peaceful  settlements  to  disputes.  We  believe 
that  the  United  Nations  must  act  in  the  context  of 
conflict prevention. The Republic of Haiti has always 
spoken out against the proliferation of nuclear weapons 
and  firmly  condemns  any  tension  generated  by  the 
desire to possess and produce nuclear weapons.
In  the  Middle  East,  the  Syrian  crisis  continues 
to  shock  our  universal  conscience.  In  this  very  Hall, 
numerous  resolutions  have  been  voted  on  calling 
for  an  end  to  that  inhumane  tragedy,  which  has  left 
countless  dead.  The  prevailing  status  quo  in  the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, punctuated by intermittent 
violence, will obviously not produce a solution.
The Republic of Haiti calls for an honourable exit 
from the present situation that can benefit our brother 
people  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  and 
urges  all  the  parties  involved  to  engage  in  dialogue 
and negotiation.
The successful negotiated outcome of the conflict 
in  Colombia  shows  that  it  is  not  armed  confrontation 
and  blind  violence  that  resolve  disputes.  May  the  
victory in Colombia serve as an example to us all.
The Republic of Haiti, true to its ideals of peace, 
dialogue  and  friendliness  among  peoples,  would  very 
much  like  to  see  a  window  of  opportunity  offered 
to  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  so  that  it  can 
participate in the major decisions that we, the Member 
States,  have  adopted  to  improve  the  human  condition 
on planet Earth.
As  I  address  the  Assembly  for  the  first  time,  I 
recognize  our  immense  responsibility  for  addressing 
the  environmental  challenges  and  threats  confronting 
the planet. The Republic of Haiti is committed to the 
environmental  dimension  of  sustainable  development. 
As an island State, Haiti is determined to strengthen its 
resilience in the face of the natural disasters that affect 
the Caribbean region every year. The Haitian people are 
making tremendous efforts to recover from the damage 
caused by Hurricanes Matthew and Irma.
Similarly,  the  unprecedented  scale  of  destruction 
by  consecutive  hurricanes  inflicted  on  our  sister 
Caribbean  countries,  including  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
and Dominica, as well as parts of Texas and Florida in 
the United States of America, shows the adverse effects 
of  global  warming  on  our  planet.  In  that  regard,  the 
Republic  of  Haiti  would  like  to  express  its  solidarity 
with  the  victims  in  general  and  the  people  of  the 
Caribbean in particular. We also stand with the victims 
4/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
of natural disasters and the people and the Government 
of Mexico.
In  that  regard,  my  country  attaches  particular 
importance to the fulfilment of commitments under the 
Paris Climate Agreement, especially since the prospects 
for sustainable development are shrinking in the wake 
of  environmental  crises  and  climate  degradation.  We 
therefore  hope  that  major  greenhouse-gas-emitting 
countries  will  contribute  the  necessary  resources  for 
the  effective  implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement. 
We  firmly  believe  that  we  must  honour  the  pledge  to 
equip  the  most  vulnerable  countries  with  the  means 
to help them make the energy transition to renewable 
energies  and  bolster  their  resilience  to  the  adverse 
effects of climate change.
In  the  Caribbean,  and  in  Haiti  in  particular,  the 
latest events have reminded us of the extent to which 
climate change affects our countries. And at the same 
moment,  the  spectacular  power  of  Hurricane  Maria 
threatens us again. But the fact is that what happens to 
us is not fated, but is rather a result of human beings’ 
actions on their environment, which we have a shared 
responsibility to repair. The victim countries, including 
the Republic of Haiti, do not have the spare resources 
to  respond  adequately  to  the  tragic  consequences  of 
climate change.
I  call  for  an  increase  in  insurance  coverage  for 
hurricanes  and  other  natural  disasters.  The  small 
Caribbean  countries,  with  severely  limited  economic 
resources, need an insurance system that is proportionate 
to the threat. To that end, in January 2018, when Haiti 
assumes the presidency of the Caribbean Community, 
we intend to organize a regional conference to set up 
an  inter-State  commission  to  agree  on  an  appropriate 
strategy.  It  will  be  a  logical  follow  up  to  Haiti’s  call 
at the fifth summit of the Global Platform for Disaster 
Risk  Reduction,  held  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  in  May,  for 
the creation of a regional fund to finance programmes 
to mitigate the effects of natural disasters in the region. 
The fund would be financed based on a percentage of 
the  gross  domestic  product  of  the  affected  countries 
and by developed countries that emit greenhouse gases. 
Haiti would like to take this opportunity to appeal to 
States Members of the United Nations that are affected 
by climate change to take this approach as well.
This  year  unquestionably  marks  a  break  with 
the  instability  that  has  been  such  an  obstacle  to  the 
development of the Republic of Haiti. Since my accession 
to  the  presidency  on  7  February,  my  Administration 
has  worked  to  consolidate  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law  by  making  efforts  to  create  conditions  conducive 
to  socioeconomic  development  and  political  and 
social stability.
First, 
the  Haitian  Government  has  been 
uncompromising in tackling corruption — overbilling 
for  public  contracts,  misuse  of  State  property  and 
cheques made out to fictitious employees, all facilitated 
by  corrupt  individuals  who,  through  such  despicable 
crimes, steal the fruits of education from the children 
of  the  Haitian  people.  Corruption,  in  all  of  its  forms, 
plagues  and  atrophies  the  economy.  It  has  deeply 
weakened our political foundation and destabilized the 
country’s social fabric.
Corruption  is  a  crime  against  development.  The 
millions of dollars spent Haiti in recent decades were 
sometimes  channeled  into  contracts  that  destabilized 
the  national  economy  to  our  people’s  detriment.  It  is 
therefore high time that official development assistance 
and our domestic resources served the interests of the 
entire Haitian nation. Corruption deprives the Haitian 
Government of the resources it needs to provide basic 
services to the population. If it is not stopped but rather 
continues  to  spread,  it  will  fuel  political  and  social 
instability. It deprives the vast majority of Haitians of 
adequately  distributed  electricity,  a  quality  education 
for their children, clean drinking water and social and 
economic opportunities. With the aim of reversing this 
devastating trend, the new Haitian leadership is waging 
a determined struggle against corruption.
As 
regards 
the  public  administration, 
the 
Government is working on five priorities based on the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We  are 
working with Parliament to strengthen our republican 
institutions  in  order  to  provide  citizens  with  better 
access  to  public  services.  This  policy  has  been  given 
tangible form through the Caravan of Change, a strategy 
aimed at providing electricity 24 hours a day through 
clean energy. We are looking to manage groundwater, 
irrigate agricultural land and tend to our rivers, which, if 
not cared for, pose an environmental threat. We are also 
striving to overcome our housing deficit and to provide 
12,000 more classrooms throughout the country.
With regard to the rule of law, measures currently 
under  way  aim  to  guarantee  the  independence  and 
increase  the  effectiveness  of  our  judicial  apparatus. 
We  are  strengthening  our  fight  against  corruption, 
17-29579
5/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
contraband  and  impunity.  We  are  reinforcing  public 
security  by  continuously  improving  and  building  the 
capacities of the Haitian National Police. At the same 
time, we are remobilizing Haiti’s armed forces, which 
are  working  in  accordance  with  a  new  development 
framework and strictly in line with the Constitution.
The international community has been supporting 
national and public security in Haiti for 13 years, and 
with every national disaster, friendly countries have had 
to come to the aid of the Haiti people, showing why we 
need a strong defence force and why Haiti, following the 
departure of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in 
Haiti (MINUSTAH), will gradually establish a military 
force to accomplish three key mandates.
We  will  first  create  an  engineering  unit  able  to 
contribute to major public-works projects and intervene 
promptly  following  natural  disasters.  Secondly,  we 
will launch an aviation unit for training young people 
in  aeronautical  mechanics  and  pilots  able  to  fly 
helicopters in the wake of natural disasters; and thirdly, 
we will have a medical unit able to care for the victims 
of  natural  disasters  and  residents  of  the  most  remote 
areas of our country.
through 
On the economic front, despite our lack of national 
resources, the Government is mobilizing all levers at its 
disposal to get the economy back on a path to growth. 
This  year,  through  a  legislative  agenda  based  on  the 
joint  efforts  of  the  political  parties,  we  have  enacted 
eight  of  nine  laws  geared  to  improving  the  business 
climate.  Similarly, 
its  dynamic  policies, 
my  Administration  is  taking  necessary  if  politically 
controversial measures to get Haiti’s economy back on 
a path to growth and to create decent jobs, particularly 
for young people concerned about their futures. In that 
regard,  our  human  resources  management  office  is 
working in a framework of State reform, through public 
examinations, to recruit 12,000 young civil servants in 
order to give new impetus to the growth and development 
of  public  administration,  and  will  be  replacing  civil 
servants who are on the brink of retirement.
We  are  determined  to  provide  other  alternatives 
and opportunities, particularly to the most vulnerable 
sectors  of  our  society,  to  ensure  that  they  are  not 
tempted to leave the country, sometimes putting their 
lives  in  danger,  in  search  of  better  living  conditions. 
Haiti  cannot  continue  to  see  its  young  people  flee  in 
search  of  opportunities,  driven  by  the  corruption 
and  the  destruction  of  national  institutions  that  have 
significantly  widened  the  gap  between  citizens  and 
the State.
We  wish  to  thank  all  friendly  countries  of  the 
region  who  have  taken  in  Haitian  migrants  and  will 
therefore contribute actively to international efforts in 
2018  to  adopt  a  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and 
regular migration.
The Haitian Government has undertaken efforts to 
give its agricultural sector new momentum through the 
Caravan of Change. All of the country’s departments will 
benefit  from  the  public  authorities’  efforts  to  develop 
their potential for social and economic development. In 
one area of Artibonite, and in the South, in Grand’Anse 
and  Les  Nippes,  we  have  already  launched  a  strategy 
whereby  the  once  moribund  State  will  relaunch  long-
neglected but essential work. We intend to do our all to 
halt the accelerated degradation of the environment and 
make  Haiti  more  resilient  to  climate  change,  improve 
basic  essential  public  infrastructure,  increase  the 
provision  of  basic  services,  and  stimulate  the  private 
sector and foreign direct investment.
What is really at stake here, and what is crucial, is 
creating an enabling environment for strong, sustained 
and  inclusive  growth  that  will  create  jobs.  Our  long-
term goal is to make Haiti a magnet for investment. The 
Haitian people are acutely aware that they are primarily 
responsible for taking ownership of and organizing the 
country in a sovereign fashion. All our endeavours at 
the economic level are focused on making rational use 
of  our  scant  resources  and  doing  everything  we  can 
with them.
While we are deeply grateful to the United Nations 
for  its  commitment  to  Haiti,  I  would  be  remiss  if  I 
did  not  recall  two  lamentable  situations  that  have 
arisen  from  its  presence  in  our  country.  On  the  one 
hand, we have seen odious acts of sexual exploitation 
and  violence  committed  by  certain  peacekeepers  or 
other  members  of  United  Nations  staff;  and  on  the 
other, we have witnessed the introduction of a cholera 
epidemic  into  Haiti.  The  harmful  consequences  of 
these demonstrations of international solidarity imply, 
as the United Nations has already recognized, a moral 
obligation  to  enact  measures  to  provide  the  resources 
necessary to eliminate cholera in Haiti.
Improving 
the  health-care  system, 
including 
by  eradicating  cholera,  is  a  priority  of  the  Haitian 
Government. Despite the recent progress, the number of 
victims stands at approximately 10,000 and, regrettably, 
6/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
continues  to  grow.  There  are  tens  of  thousands  of 
cholera  orphans.  The  time  has  therefore  come  for  the 
United Nations to truly live up to its noble ideals, based 
fundamentally on respect for human rights, by assuming 
its full responsibility for remedying a situation that has 
done serious harm to the Haitian people. It is high time 
that  the  United  Nations  honoured  the  commitments  it 
has made under the new approach to fighting the cholera 
epidemic  recommended  by 
the  Secretary-General 
and  approved  by  the  General  Assembly.  We  therefore 
align  ourselves  with  the  urgent  appeal  launched  by 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  to  establish  a 
trust  fund  to  fully  implement  the  two  components  of 
this new approach.
We  also  welcome  the  decision  taken  by  the 
General Assembly to reallocate $40.5 million from the 
MINUSTAH budget for 2015-2016 to the fight against 
the epidemic. We would like to see  other international 
partners  follow  that  example.  We  want  to  ensure  that 
the sick receive adequate care, that the victims and their 
children get due compensation, and that drinking water 
and sanitation systems in Haiti are developed under the 
auspices of the National Directorate for Drinking Water 
and Sanitation.
The  Republic  of  Haiti  is  resolutely  committed  to 
making progress and strengthening the rule of law. Of 
course, these objectives remain works in progress. The 
new  leadership  of  Haiti  will  spare  no  effort  to  foster 
the great transformations necessary to bring the State 
out of its traumatic and painful lethargy. The Haitian 
Government is working tirelessly to ensure the safety 
and well-being of its people. These are vital prerequisites 
for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
Political  stability  is  the  most  important  of  all 
public goods, as I said in my election campaign. In that 
regard,  I  intend  to  continue  the  dialogue  I  began  last 
week  on  building  robust  institutions  in  the  political 
sphere,  a  dialogue  in  which  almost  all  the  political 
parties in Parliament and all local authorities took part. 
Moreover,  in  the  coming  weeks,  my  Administration 
will begin a national consultation in all sectors with a 
view to achieving the stability required to undertake a 
programme  of  economic  and  social  development  over 
the next 25 years at least.
Economic,  political  and  social  stakeholders  in 
Haiti are aware of the overriding obligation they have 
to  promote  social  peace  in  order  to  fulfil  the  destiny 
that has been reserved for our noble and great nation, a 
cradle of liberty, equality and fraternity, the Republic 
of Haiti.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Haiti for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Jovenel  Moïse,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Haiti, was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the 
Republic of Korea
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Korea.
Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the Republic of Korea, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the Republic 
of Korea, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Moon (spoke in Korean; interpretation 
provided by the delegation): First of all, on behalf of the 
people and the Government of the Republic of Korea, 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  my 
deepest sympathy to the victims of the earthquake that 
hit Mexico on 19 September  as well as to the people 
and the Government of Mexico.
I would like to express my respect and gratitude to 
all  Member  States  and  the  staff  of  the  Secretariat  for 
their contributions to world peace and security.
I congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. I expectt this session will yield many 
meaningful results under his excellent leadership.
I  also  wish  Secretary-General  António  Guterres 
great  success.  The  Republic  of  Korea  is  a  strong 
supporter  of  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations  aimed 
at  preventing  conflicts  and  sustaining  peace.  I  look 
forward to its rebirth as an even stronger organization 
for fostering peace and prosperity for all peoples during 
his tenure as Secretary-General.
As  I  prepared  this  address,  I  thought  about  the 
spirit  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  joint  mission  we 
all share. The United Nations is perhaps one of the best 
institutional inventions created by human intelligence. 
It  was  born  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
the  scourge  of  war  and  has  worked  tirelessly  to  meet 
17-29579
7/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
the  challenges  confronting  humankind  over  the  past 
70 years. The role and contribution to the international 
community of the United Nations will continue to grow 
over  time.  Today  the  number  of  transnational  issues 
continues to increase, and no country can resolve them 
single-handedly. For this reason, we should truly fulfil 
the spirit of the United Nations in finding solutions to 
all the problems facing us.
To  that  end,  I  hope  the  world  will  look  to  the 
Republic of Korea, located on the southern part of the 
Korean  peninsula  at  the  eastern  end  of  the  Eurasian 
continent.  I  believe  the  candlelight  rallies  last  winter 
in  my  country  represented  a  historic  moment  that 
reflectedthe  brilliant  achievement  of  the  spirit  of  the 
United  Nations.  Embodying  the  power  of  cooperation 
and solidarity in defiance of challenges, the rallies lit 
the way ahead towards a future for humankind. Some 
may  remember  the  scenes  of  the  candlelight  rallies 
shown by the media. On streets sparkling with millions 
of  lights,  people  expressed  their  opinions  freely  and 
joined  in  discussions  on  every  street  corner.  There 
was  singing,  dancing  and  painting,  the  radiant  faces 
of parents taking their children by the hand to join the 
rallies,  and  the  pride  of  young  people  who  picked  up 
trash on the streets afterwards. All those scenes were 
very much a part of our democracy and peace.
The  candlelight  revolution  in  Korea  started  in  a 
public  square  where  a  yearning  for  the  restoration  of 
democracy  and  the  Constitution  awakened  citizens’ 
collective  intelligence.  I  myself  participated  in  the 
rallies as an ordinary citizen. The people of the Republic 
of Korea achieved democracy in the most peaceful and 
beautiful  manner.  They  proved  the  power  of  popular 
sovereignty,  which  is  the  quintessence  of  democracy. 
They  also  proved  that  the  power  of  peace  can  bring 
greater changes to the world than violence can.
The new Administration of the Republic of Korea 
was  made  possible  by  that  candlelight  revolution. 
Beyond its significance in making way for democratic 
elections, the Administration was established through 
the  people’s  participation  and  aspirations 
the 
awareness that they are the rightful owners of the nation. 
I  stand  here  now  on  behalf  of  that  Administration.  I 
am very thankful for, as well as proud, of the fact that 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  while  it  is  a  democracy  that 
bloomed only recently, has shown the world new hope 
for that form of Government. Currently building on its 
new-found  strength,  the  Republic  of  Korea  intends  to 
in 
play an active role in addressing the issues facing the 
international community.
The Republic of Korea has always walked in step 
with  the  United  Nations.  Since  our  Government  was 
established,  in  1948,  we  have  received  significant 
assistance  from  the  United  Nations,  both  during 
the  Korean  War  and  in  the  process  of  post-war 
reconstruction. Although we were not able to become 
a  Member  of  the  United  Nations  until  1991,  we  have 
enhanced  our  role  and  responsibilities  as  a  State 
Member  faster  than  any  other  in  the  span  of  only  a 
single  generation.  Since  1993,  Korea  continues  to 
participate in peacekeeping operations. As Chair of the 
Peacebuilding Commission this year, it is focusing on 
resolving the root causes of conflicts.
In  the  past  five  years,  the  Republic  of  Korea  has 
increased  its  financial  assistance  for  refugees  15-
fold, and last year, it joined the $20-million-plus club 
under  the  aegis  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees.  By  expediting  the 
implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change and making changes in its own energy policy, 
the  Korean  Government  is  also  taking  a  lead  role  in 
supporting the climate-change responses of developing 
countries through the Global Green Growth Institute and 
the Green Climate Fund. Moreover, my Administration 
has reached the goal of filling 30 per cent of its Cabinet 
positions with female ministers, thereby spearheading 
efforts to realize gender equality, one of the Goals of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
the 
theme  of 
this  session  of 
In  the  next  few  years,  the  Republic  of  Korea 
will  significantly  increase  its  contributions  to  the 
United Nations in every sector. It is truly meaningful 
that 
the  General 
Assembly — “Focusing on people: Striving for peace 
and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet” — is 
in  line  with  the  philosophy  of  governance  of  the  new 
Administration in the Republic of Korea. “People come 
first” is the slogan that I have used for several years to 
express my political philosophy, and the people are at 
the centre of every policy of my new Administration. As 
of now, my Administration is pursuing bold measures 
to  change  the  economic  paradigm  so  as  to  deal  with 
inequalities  that  stand  in  the  way  of  growth  and 
social  cohesion.  We  are  currently  pursuing  economic 
policies  focused  on  income  growth  for  individuals 
and  households,  and  promoting  an  economy  in  which 
growth  is  fuelled  by  job  creation  and  everyone  can 
enjoy equal opportunities and the products of growth. 
8/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
That  is  what  we  call  a  people-centred  economy.  My 
Administration’s  determined  endeavours  to  realize 
inclusive growth will not be confined to our country. 
In accordance with that new paradigm, the Republic of 
Korea  will  offer  its  support  for  sustainable  growth  in 
developing countries.
I was born in a refugee town in the middle of the 
Korean  War.  That  civil  war,  which  evolved  into  an 
international  war,  devastated  countless  lives.  More 
than 3 million people died, and many of the survivors 
were  deprived  of  a  decent  living.  My  father  was  one 
of  them.  My  father,  who  believed  that  he  was  taking 
temporary refuge at that time, was never able to return 
to his hometown before he passed away. I come from 
one of the separated families — victims whose human 
rights were violated because of the war. The war has yet 
to come to a complete end.
The  Korean  War,  which  began  as  an  offshoot  of 
the  larger  Cold  War,  continues  to  this  day.  Although 
the Cold War ended and it has been 64 years since the 
conclusion of the Korean armistice agreement, the war 
continues  in  the  form  of  an  uneasy  ceasefire  on  the 
peninsula — the last remnant of the Cold War order in 
North-East Asia. As tensions mount in North-East Asia 
because of the North Korean nuclear and missile issue, 
the memory of war and its wounds are becoming more 
acute, and hearts that long for peace are filled with pain. 
That describes the situation concerning the Republic of 
Korea on the Korean peninsula in September 2017.
For me, the President of the only divided country 
in the world, achieving peace is a calling and a historic 
duty.  I  represent  my  fellow  citizens,  who  have  sent  a 
message of peace through their candlelight revolution 
to the global village in which wars and conflicts know 
no end. At the same time, I have been entrusted with 
the responsibility of safeguarding my people’s right to 
peace and to undisturbed daily life as universal values. 
For  those  reasons,  I  hope  that  North  Korea  will  be 
able to choose its own path leading to peace. I believe 
that  peace,  when  it  is  chosen  willingly,  naturally 
becomes  sound  and  sustainable.  More  than  anything, 
I  am  grateful  that  my  convictions  are  shared  by  the 
international community.
Government  has  consequently  convinced  countries 
in  and  beyond  the  region  of  the  need  for  stronger 
sanctions and pressure to make North Korea end them 
and choose the path of dialogue. I very much appreciate 
the Security Council’s unanimous and unprecedentedly 
rapid  adoption  of  resolution  2375  (2017),  on  North 
Korea  sanctions,  with  measures  tougher  than  in  any 
previous  resolution.  That  clearly  reflects  the  fact  that 
the  international  community  is  collectively  outraged 
and is responding with one voice to address the North 
Korean nuclear issue and the problems on the Korean 
peninsula. Once again, as the representative of one of 
the  parties  directly  involved  with  issues  concerning 
the  Korean  peninsula,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  the  international  community  for  its 
shared  understanding  and  support  for  the  position  of 
the Korean Government.
Despite  North  Korea’s  flagrant  violation  of  its 
obligations  and  commitments  under  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  the  Korean  Government  and  the 
international  community  are  determined  to  make 
every  possible  effort  to  resolve  the  North  Korean 
nuclear issue peacefully. The relevant Security Council 
sanctions on North Korea, in resolutions that articulate 
the  principles  of  a  peaceful,  diplomatic  and  political 
settlement of the North Korean nuclear issue, are also 
part of those efforts.
Once again, here in the General Assembly, where 
nations  pledge  to  act  to  achieve  world  peace  and  the 
shared  prosperity  of  all  peoples,  I  will  make  the 
following  points  very  clear  to  North  Korea  and  the 
international community. We do not desire the collapse 
of  North  Korea.  We  will  not  seek  reunification  by 
absorption  or  artificial  means.  If  North  Korea  makes 
the decision, even at this juncture, to stand on the right 
side of history, we are ready, alongside the international 
community, to assist. North Korea should acknowledge 
all these immutable facts as soon as possible. It must 
immediately  cease  making  reckless  decisions  that 
could lead to its own isolation and downfall, and choose 
the  path  of  dialogue.  I  urge  North  Korea  to  abandon 
its hostile policies against other countries and to give 
up its nuclear weapons programme in a verifiable and 
irreversible way.
Despite  the  international  community’s  concerted 
demands and warnings, and to our great disappointment 
and  indignation,  North  Korea  recently  carried  out 
its  sixth  nuclear  test  and  additional  missile-related 
provocations. In the wake of the nuclear test, the Korean 
The efforts of the international community should 
also  be  strengthened.  It  must  continue  to  respond 
strongly  and  sternly  until  North  Korea  gives  up  its 
nuclear programme of its own accord. All nations must 
implement  Security  Council  sanctions 
thoroughly 
17-29579
9/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
resolutions  and  seek  new  measures  in  the  event  of 
any  further  provocations  by  the  North.  It  is  also 
important  to  manage  the  situation  calmly.  All  of  our 
endeavours are aimed at preventing the outbreak of war 
and  maintaining  peace.  In  that  respect,  the  situation 
surrounding  the  North  Korean  nuclear  issue  must  be 
managed  calmly  so  that  tensions  are  not  ratcheted  up 
too far and accidental military clashes do not destroy 
the peace. We should all remind ourselves of the words 
of  former  United  States  President  Ronald  Reagan: 
“Peace is not the absence of conflict, but the ability to 
cope with conflict by peaceful means”.
I would like to make a special request to the States 
Members of the United Nations and in particular to the 
Security Council. In order to fundamentally resolve the 
North Korean nuclear issue, the basic spirit of a secure 
community  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations should be fulfilled on the Korean peninsula and 
in North-East Asia. The pillars of security in North-East 
Asia and multilateralism should be wisely combined.
The spirit of the United Nations is realizing global 
peace  through  multilateral  dialogue.  The  Korean 
peninsula  is  where  that  spirit  is  most  desperately 
needed.  The  realization  of  peace  is  what  the  United 
Nations was created for, what it aims for and what it is 
in the process of achieving. We need the United Nations 
to play a more active role on the Korean peninsula. The 
most important role the United Nations is being asked 
to play today is to come up with fundamental measures 
to end the vicious cycle of increased provocations and 
heightened sanctions.
I  have  explained  our  new  economic  map  for  the 
Korean  peninsula  and  new  vision  for  the  northern 
economy  many  times.  I  believe  that  genuine  peace 
and  prosperity  in  North-East  Asia  will  begin  when 
the  foundation  for  a  North-East  Asian  economic 
community  is  solidified  on  one  side  and  multilateral 
security cooperation comes into being on the other.
When  the  Olympic  Games  were  reintroduced, 
in  1896,  they  had  not  been  held  for  1,500  years.  The 
impetus  behind  their  revival  was  the  thirst  for  peace. 
The  history  of  the  modern  Olympics  started  with  the 
overwhelming  emotion  of  the  first  Olympics,  held 
in  Athens  on  the  Balkan  peninsula,  once  a  centre  of 
conflict.  Five  months  from  now,  the  XXIII  Olympic 
Winter  Games  will  be  held  in  PyeongChang,  in  the 
Republic  of  Korea,  the  first  of  a  series  to  be  held  in 
North-East  Asia  —  PyeongChang  in  2018,  Tokyo 
took 
(Morocco),  Vice-President, 
in  2020  and  Beijing  in  2022.  I  hope  that  these  three 
Olympics will offer an opportunity for promoting peace 
and  economic  cooperation  in  North-East  Asia,  where 
the remnants of the Cold War and hope for the future, 
as  well  as  confrontations  and  cooperation,  coexist. 
The Republic of Korea is ready to make every possible 
effort to that end.
Mr.  Hilale 
the Chair.
I would ask members of the Assembly to imagine, 
for  one  moment,  people  who  love  peace  and  sports 
gathering from all around the world in PyeongChang, 
which  is  only  100  kilometres  from  the  demilitarized 
zone, the symbol of division and confrontation on the 
Korean  peninsula.  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
from all corners of the world will exchange greetings 
of  friendship  and  harmony.  My  heart  fills  with  joy 
when  I  imagine  North  Korean  athletes  marching  into 
the stadium during the opening ceremony, a South and 
North  Korean  joint  cheering  squad  enthusiastically 
welcoming 
the  brightly  smiling 
faces  of  people  from  all  over  the  world.  It  is  not  an 
impossible dream.
them  alongside 
I  will  work  wholeheartedly  to  turn  that  into  a 
reality, in cooperation with the International Olympic 
Committee, up until the last minute, in order to welcome 
North Koreans to the PyeongChang Winter Olympics. 
I hope that PyeongChang will become another candle 
to be lit. Like the candles the Korean people held out 
in  the  face  of  the  crisis  of  democracy,  I  believe  that 
PyeongChang will become a candle that sheds light on 
peace when peace is threatened. I hope that all Member 
States and the United Nations will light their candles. I 
hope they will put their hearts and minds together to go 
hand in hand with peace.
Today, with that heartfelt pledge, I invite all Heads 
of  State  and  Government  from  around  the  world  to 
come  to  PyeongChang.  The  steps  they  take,  together, 
will become a march for peace. I look forward to seeing 
them all in PyeongChang next year.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Korea for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Moon Jae-in, President of the Republic of Korea, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
10/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
Address by General Michel Aoun, President of the 
Lebanese Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Lebanese Republic.
into 
escorted 
General  Michel  Aoun,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic,  was 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  General 
Michel Aoun, President of the Lebanese Republic, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
President  Aoun  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the  outset, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  current  session.  I  wish  him  every 
success in his endeavours. I also thank His Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson for wisely guiding the work of the 
previous  session,  and  I  commend  Secretary-General 
Guterres  for  his  efforts  in  revitalizing  the  role  of  the 
United Nations.
Today we are in New York in September. We should 
think back 16 years ago and remember when terrorism 
struck  this  city,  claiming  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
victims. From this very rostrum, we renew our solidarity 
with the families of those victims and the families of all 
victims of terrorism all over the world.
That  tragic  event  ignited  an  international  war 
against terrorism. That war has spread and has lost its 
purpose. Its raging fire has spread to other countries, 
especially  in  the  Middle  East.  Many  countries  have 
felt that raging fire — some directly, while others have 
borne  the  burden  of  the  results.  It  has  fed  the  most 
heinous  forms  of  terrorism,  terrorism  that  seeks  to 
eliminate  humankind,  civilization  and  culture.  It  has 
perpetrated the most heinous crimes against our people. 
It has spared no civilians, no children, no women, no old 
people. It has spared no cultural or religious landmark. 
It has also mushroomed and struck five continents, its 
means growing bloodier by the minute. Its crimes have 
violated all laws, conventions and international norms. 
No one knows where this terrorism will reach and how 
and when it will end.
As  the  war  began  in  Syria,  the  situation  in 
Lebanon became destabilized. It was clear that, as an 
Arab  country,  it  was  supposed  to  be  drawn  into  the 
circle  of  terrorism.  However,  Lebanon  was  able  to 
prevent that horror, by preserving its unity despite its 
severe political divisions. No one crossed the red line 
facing  every  civilian,  and  that  preserved  the  unity 
and  security  of  Lebanon,  despite  the  fact  that  some 
terrorists  managed  to  infiltrate  our  towns  and  cities 
and organize armed cells there. With all of its forces, 
Lebanon was gradually able to eliminate those terrorist 
cells.  Recently,  our  army  emerged  victorious  against 
the  terrorist  organizations  of  Da’esh  and  Jabhat  Fath 
Al-Sham  and  their  armies,  and  ended  their  military 
presence in Lebanon.
The burden that the ongoing war in Syria has caused 
Lebanon greatly exceeds our capacities. However, the 
Lebanese people have proved that they are humane and 
responsible.  They  have  welcomed  refugees  into  their 
homes,  schools  and  hospitals.  They  have  shared  their 
food and their labour market with them throughout the 
years  of  conflict  to  this  very  day,  thereby  drastically 
increasing  the  country’s  unemployment  rate.  I  would 
like  to  point  out  that  more  than  half  of  our  public 
schools operate in double shift,  morning and afternoon, 
in order to accommodate and educate Syrian children.
Lebanon  is  a  small,  densely  populated  country 
with limited resources. Its economy has been affected 
by  several  crises  —  first,the  global  economic  crisis, 
and  then  the  regional  wars  that  have  surrounded  our 
country and prevented it from turning to the East and 
the Arab States that constitute our vital support. Waves 
of displaced people and refugees have been unleashed, 
increasing the country’s population by a total of 50 per 
cent, which means that for every two Lebanese citizens 
there is one displaced person or refugee. Our population 
density has increased from 400 to 600 people per square 
kilometre, resulting in severe overcrowding spread over 
a total of 10,452 square kilometres. That has adversely 
affected our economy and led to an increase in the rates 
of various categories of crime.
More  dangerous  is  the  fact  that  terrorist  groups 
have  taken  shelter  in  refugee  gathering  areas  and 
camps,  making  them  fertile  terrain  for  carrying  out 
terrorist  activities  and  claiming  the  lives  of  innocent 
people.  We  therefore  need  to  regulate  the  return  of 
displaced  persons  to  their  homeland.  That  need  has 
become urgent as the situation in most of their original 
residences has settled.
There are those who talk of voluntary return, while 
we speak of safe return. There is a difference, and the 
meetings of the International Syria Support Group have 
17-29579
11/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
affirmed that difference. Return is either voluntary or 
safe, depending on the reasons for displacement. In the 
case  of  individual  or  political  asylum  due  to  a  threat 
to the safety and security of the individual, the return 
should  be  voluntary.  That  is  the  case  with  political 
refugees, who should themselves decide the timing of 
their return, which must be coupled with the acceptance 
of the host country.
As  for  the  current  form  of  collective  asylum  in 
Lebanon,  it  has  arisen  for  economic  and  security 
reasons,  as  an  escape  from  the  dangers  of  war.  We 
therefore call it displacement rather than asylum. It is 
not coupled with the acceptance of the host country and 
is not limited to individual asylum; it is, rather, a form 
of population invasion. As for the claim that such people 
will not be safe if they return to their country, we are 
all aware that it is a pretext and that it is unacceptable.
On  the  one  hand,  around  85  per  cent  of  Syrian 
territory has been recovered by the Government. On the 
other, if the Syrian Government is reconciling with the 
armed groups that it is fighting and granting them the 
freedom to choose between remaining in their villages 
or moving to other regions, what will the Government 
do  with  displaced  persons  who  have  fled  the  war? 
Recent events in Lebanon have confirmed that issue.
On top of this, the displaced are living in misery 
in  an  unhealthy  environment,  despite  all  the  services 
provided by the international and Lebanese institutions. 
It is painful for us to be unable to improve their situation, 
given  their  great  numbers  and  our  limited  capacities. 
There is no doubt that it would be better if the United 
Nations  assisted  them  in  returning  to  their  homeland 
rather than helping them to remain in camps that lack 
basic decent living standards.
In addition to the Syrian exodus and the impending 
financial  collapse  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near 
East  (UNRWA),  Lebanon  is  burdened  by  the  500,000 
Palestinian  refugees  who  have  been  displaced  from 
their  homeland  for  69  years  and  are  still  waiting  to 
return  to  Palestine.  We  see  no  serious  effort  on  the 
part of the United Nations in general, and the Security 
Council 
two-State 
solution. On the contrary, the international community, 
with all of its institutions, is unable to compel Israel to 
stop building new settlements. The violence continues 
unabated because people whose identity and land have 
been stolen cannot be subjugated.
in  particular, 
to 
implement  a 
Israel’s  approach  to  the  solution  has  always  been 
based on military force and violation of others’ rights. 
Lebanon  is  a  case  in  point.  Israel  has  repeatedly 
violated both Lebanese sovereignty and resolution 1701 
(2006).  Some  days  ago,  the  Israeli  air  force  bombed 
Syrian  territory  from  Lebanese  air  space.  A  few 
days  later,  it  carried  out  an  imaginary  raid,  breaking 
the  sound  barrier  above  Saïda  and  causing  material 
damage.  Moreover,  from  time  to  time  Israel  installs 
spying devices in Lebanese territory. Those violations 
are not new. Israel has been doing such things for seven 
decades now. Records show that there are at least 100 
land,  sea  and  air  violations  of  Lebanese  sovereignty 
each and every month. Lebanon has lodged complaints 
with the Security Council, but so far has been unable to 
stop those violations.
These seven decades of war with Israel have shown 
that cannons, tanks and planes do not achieve solutions 
or peace. There can be no peace without rights and there 
can be no justice without respect for rights. It is clear 
that the crime of expelling Palestinians from their land 
and displacing them cannot be rectified by committing 
the additional crime of compelling Lebanon to impose 
naturalization  on  Palestinians  and  denying  them  the 
right  of  return.  The  weakening  of  UNRWA’s  role  is 
a step towards that goal, seeking to end their refugee 
status  in  preparation  for  their  resettlement.  Lebanon 
will  not  allow  that  to  happen.  We  will  refuse  to  take 
in  those  refugees  and  displaced  persons,  whatever 
happens. The choice is ours and ours alone to make.
All these wars have left deep wounds in our society 
and  citizens.  They  have  destroyed  civil  attitudes  and 
the principles of coexistence, solidarity, tolerance and 
acceptance  among  individuals  and  groups  worldwide. 
Our  region  has  become  trapped  in  a  cycle  of  poverty 
and  is  becoming  a  hotbed  of  extremism,  thereby 
creating continually deteriorating crises. Any solution 
must  therefore  be  coupled  with  economic  and  social 
measures  that  can  boost  growth,  improve  social 
conditions  and  ensure  a  decent  and  stable  life  for  the 
people of the region.
I  therefore  call  on  Members  to  seriously  consider 
establishing a common market to ensure that we do not 
live outside the shadow of freedom. Lebanon is itself a 
model of diversity. Its people, cultures and civilizations 
have  always  been  diverse.  They  are  the  result  of  an 
amalgamation born in ancient times — from Aramaic, 
the  language  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  Arabic,  the  language 
of  the  prophet,  in  addition  to  Phoenician,  Roman, 
12/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
Greek, Latin, Persian and Coptic. We must not forget 
that  the  Lebanese  people  have  long  brought  Muslims 
and  Christians  of  different  sects  together.  Despite  a 
history of war and its repercussions, we have enjoyed 
peace and its positive aspects. Given our experience in 
coexistence  and  our  comprehensive  culture,  Lebanon 
can be an oasis where the world can meet and engage 
in dialogue.
After the end of the First World War, the League 
of  Nations  was  established  to  maintain  world  peace. 
However,  it  failed  and  the  Second  World  War  broke 
out only two decades later. At the end of that war, the 
United Nations was established with the main objective 
of  peacefully  resolving  disputes  among  countries  and 
preventing  future  wars.  But  has  it  been  successful  in 
achieving that goal? The answer to that question is not 
difficult. The explosive world around us is the answer.
World War Three has assumed a new form. It is no 
longer  a  war  among  nations,  but  rather  a  devastating 
internal war. Many countries have exploded for religious 
and ethnic reasons related to extremism and the rejection 
of others’ rights to exist. As for the division of States 
into sectarian and ethnic groups, it is definitely not the 
solution and will never prevent wars. On the contrary, 
that  approach  can  serve  only  to  increase  fanaticism, 
extremism  and  conflict.  The  solution  will  come  only 
through intellectual and cultural change.
Hence 
for  an 
the  urgent  need 
institution 
dedicated  to  providing  peace  education.  That  has 
become  crucial,  since  only  a  new  culture  of  peace 
and  forgiveness  that  teaches  the  principles  of  living 
together — also known as coexistence, in which people 
respect  freedom  of  conscience  and  the  right  to  hold 
differing opinions — can confront terrorism and create 
societies  capable  of  establishing  peace  among  people 
and nations; a culture that brings people together and 
contributes to strengthening relations among different 
societies; a culture that assists in adopting the language 
of dialogue as a means of conflict resolution.
The  role  and  mission  of  Lebanon  is  to  wage  war 
against  the  ideology  of  terrorism.  Lebanon,  in  its 
pluralistic society, is the antithesis of the unilateralism 
represented by Da’esh and its peers. That is the basic 
effort  that  the  United  Nations  must  undertake  —  to 
intellectually fight terrorism, which has no geographic 
borders.  It  is  an  intellectual  infection,  transmitted 
electronically around the world.
For  all  of  those  reasons,  I  propose  Lebanon’s 
candidacy  as  a  permanent  centre,  independent  of 
the  United  Nations,  for  dialogue  among  different 
civilizations, religions and races. We hope that Member 
States  will  support  Lebanon  when  that  proposal  is 
submitted  so  that  we  can  work  together  to  secure  the 
aspirations of the United Nations as an institution and 
as nations seeking peace and a decent life for all people 
in a world of security and stability.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Lebanese Republic for the statement he 
has just made.
General  Michel  Aoun,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicos  Anastasiades, 
President of the Republic of Cyprus, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
into 
President  Anastasiades:  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  convey  my  Government’s  congratulations  to 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  and 
assure him of our unwavering support for his mandate.
At  the  same  time,  I  would  like  to  once  again 
congratulate  Secretary-General  António  Guterres 
on  his  assumption  of  his  duties  since  1  January.  The 
Government of Cyprus and I personally have full faith 
and confidence in his abilities and vision. To that end, 
we  stand  ready  to  provide  all  necessary  assistance 
towards  achieving  our  shared  goal  of  promoting  the 
values  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  at  a  time 
marked by great uncertainty and instability.
Like the years preceding it, 2017 has been marked 
by turbulence. To name only a few examples, terrorism, 
regional  conflicts,  forced  migration,  the  alarming 
17-29579
13/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
effects of climate change and humanitarian crises are 
realities  that  have  placed  an  enormous  strain  on  our 
peoples and the environment. Human nature drives us 
to  work  for  what  is  in  our  best  interests  and  those  of 
future  generations  —  the  preservation  of  our  planet, 
peaceful  settlements  of  conflicts,  an  end  to  terrorism 
and  extremism,  action  to  prevent  natural  disasters, 
and joint efforts to alleviate the immeasurable human 
suffering experienced around the world.
There  is  only  one  way  to  achieve  that,  and  it  is 
multilateralism.  We  stand  here  as  world  leaders  to 
pledge our determination and commitment to a better 
world, through cooperation and joint actions. It is only 
through  collective  efforts  that  we  can  address  crises 
like the current one with North Korea, which threatens 
the  resilience  of  our  global  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament regimes, as well as the peace and security 
architecture of the region and beyond.
International multilateral cooperation is also vital 
in  dealing  with  the  scourge  of  terrorism.  Terrorist 
attacks  have  unfortunately  become  commonplace  in 
our world, from Baghdad to Kabul, from Paris to Cairo, 
from Barcelona to London. They target our cities and 
citizens with cowardly acts of asymmetric aggression. 
Along with adopting enhanced security measures, it is 
essential to prevent and counter radicalization and violent 
extremism  within  our  societies  through  education, 
dialogue, economic growth and social inclusion.
implement 
There is no security without development, and there 
is  no  development  without  security.  Enhancing  our 
societies’ resilience is a key aspect of our multilateral 
endeavours,  and  in  that  respect  our  determination 
to 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development must remain high on the list of priorities. 
Sustainable  development  is  at  the  heart  of  dealing 
with the root causes of forced migration, which for the 
past  two  years  has  dominated  the  global  agenda,  and 
not  without  cause.  The  crisis  is  putting  pressure  on 
our societies as well as our Governments, while at the 
same time it is changing the way political dialogue is 
conducted.  However  overwhelming  the  situation  may 
be, we must not lose sight of the big picture, which is 
the need for solidarity and burden-sharing.
All these issues, along with the additional challenges 
that  we  are  facing,  point  in  one  direction.  We  need  a 
just, effective and efficient global governance system. 
In that regard, we are here to renew our commitment 
to  a  global  order  based  on  international  law,  with  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  at  its 
core — a global order that ensures that peace, security, 
human rights and sustainable development remain the 
highest values that we subscribe to, preserve and uphold. 
Cyprus  believes  that  the  reform  priorities  that  the 
Secretary-General has laid out are essential to ensuring 
thatmultilateralism remains relevant and effective in a 
time of growing scepticism and isolationist tendencies.
The three pillars of reform, in distinct yet parallel 
and  complementary  processes,  will,  if  successful, 
provide us with a changed narrative pertaining to the 
ability to prevent crises before they erupt, reinforcing 
and  enhancing  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding, 
humanitarian  assistance  and  long-term  development 
and growth.
The  theme  of  this  year’s  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  —  ”Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for 
peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet” — is extremely relevant to my country, which is 
still suffering from the scourge of war and its ongoing 
violent division. In that regard, we firmly believe that 
the most vital element in achieving inter-State, regional 
and  global  peace  is  respecting  and  ensuring  the  full 
and  unhindered  independence,  territorial  integrity 
and  sovereignty  of  each  and  every  State  Member  of 
the  United  Nations  —  a  pillar  that  constitutes  one  of 
the  most  indispensable  provisions  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  most  basic  rule  aimed  at 
prohibiting  foreign  intervention  in  the  territory,  the 
exclusive  economic  zone  or  the  internal  affairs  of 
independent  and  sovereign  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations. It is only by adhering to that standard 
that  we  can  avoid  inter-State  conflicts  and  bloody 
internal clashes, which in turn establish the conditions 
for prolonged destabilization, violence and uncertainty.
One country that unfortunately continues to endure 
the consequences of blatant violations of fundamental 
principles of the United Nations is mine, the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  which  since  the  1974  military  invasion  of 
Turkey has remained under its occupation. The pretext 
for  the  invasion  was  the  restoration  of  constitutional 
order  following  the  attempted  coup  d’état  against  the 
President of the Republic by the Greek military junta. I 
have deliberately used the word “pretext” since, instead 
of restoring the constitutional order, Turkey ended up 
occupying 37 per cent of the territory of Cyprus, while 
forcibly  displacing  more  than  a  third  of  the  Greek 
Cypriot  community  from  their  ancestral  homeland. 
14/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
Thousands were murdered, and more than 1,000 Greek 
Cypriots have been missing since 1974.
By the same use of force, all our Turkish Cypriot 
compatriots were compelled by Turkey to relocate from 
the areas controlled by the Government of Cyprus, in 
which they had been residing peacefully, to the areas 
occupied by Turkey. In the same context, through the 
continuous  presence  of  more  than  40,000  Turkish 
troops  and  thousands  of  transplanted  settlers,  in  a 
conscious effort to alter the demographic character of 
the  island,  Turkey  established  an  illegal  entity  under 
its absolute political, economic, cultural and religious 
control and dominance.
It is not my intention to engage in a game of blame. 
On the contrary, I truly wish that I were in the position 
to  inform  the  Assembly  that  my  vision  of  reaching  a 
settlement — one that I have repeatedly described from 
this  rostrum  —  has  become  a  reality.  Unfortunately, 
despite  our  constructive  approach,  our  tireless  and 
unwavering efforts and the progress achieved, the most 
recent  rounds  of  talks,  which  were  launched  in  May 
2015  and  began  to  crescendo  in  July  2017  at  Crans-
Montana, have reached a deadlock, which is attributable 
exclusively 
intransigent  position,  as 
reflected  in  its  proposals  aimed  at  reducing  Cyprus 
to  a  Turkish  protectorate  instead  of  being  positively 
predisposed 
independent, 
sovereign and conventional State. One might consider 
my  previous  comments  to  be  exaggerated  were  I  not 
able to substantiate them, as I intend to do now.
to  establishing  a 
to  Turkey’s 
truly 
In 1960, with the establishment of the Republic of 
Cyprus, among others, under the Treaty of Guarantee, 
Turkey, Great Britain and Greece set out to guarantee 
the  independence,  territorial  integrity  and  security  of 
Cyprus.  In  that  regard,  I  should  stress  that  Turkey’s 
exploitation of that provision has regrettably led to the 
pain and suffering that the people of Cyprus — Greek 
and Turkish Cypriots alike — have endured and continue 
to endure as a consequence of the unacceptable status 
quo.  It  is  for  that  exact  reason  that,  since  resuming 
negotiations  on  establishing  a  normal  and  sovereign 
State  and  from  the  very  beginning,  we  have  made  it 
our goal to terminate the Treaty of Guarantee and the 
right of intervention, as well as agree to a sunset clause 
for  full  withdrawal  of  the  foreign  occupation  troops. 
That is a principled position that the Secretary-General 
himself holds as an indispensable element in efforts to 
reach a settlement. As he said on 4 June,
“Progress  in  this  chapter  [that  is,  the  chapter 
pertaining  to  security  and  guarantees]  is  an 
essential element in reaching an overall agreement 
and in building trust between the two communities 
in relation to their future security”.
Based  on  both  the  observed  progress  in  the 
bicommunal  dialogue  and  the  Secretary-General’s 
assessment, which I just cited, on 28 June the multilateral 
Conference on Cyprus opened with great expectations. 
Following negotiations in an effort to positively support 
the whole process, the Secretary-General presented an 
outline of six fundamental thematic topics comprising, 
on the one hand, the chapter on security and guarantees, 
including the withdrawal of foreign troops, and, on the 
other hand, issues related to the internal aspects of the 
Cyprus  problem.  Reaching  the  points  of  convergence 
within the Secretary-General’s framework would have 
led  to  a  strategic  agreement,  thereby  injecting  a  new 
dynamic and impetus into the process of realizing the 
valid hope that an overall settlement might be feasible.
In  full  compliance  with  the  Secretary-General’s 
outline,  I  submitted  credible  and  realistic  proposals 
that effectively addressed the sensitivities and concerns 
of  both  communities,  and  that,  like  the  Secretary-
General’s framework, were based on the capacity of the 
Republic of Cyprus as a State member of the European 
Union (EU) and the United Nations. In stark contrast 
to  the  framework  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
positions of the other two guarantor Powers, Turkey, in 
adopting an inflexible position, insisted on maintaining 
the Treaty of Guarantee and the right of intervention, as 
well as the permanent presence of troops.
In  his  statement  before  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  current  session  (see  A/72/PV.4),  the  President  of 
Turkey,  Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  claimed  that  the 
unsuccessful outcome of negotiations at Crans-Montana 
was attributable to the incomprehensible position of the 
Greek  Cypriot  side.  In  response,  I  would  like  to  say 
that I am sorry but I have to reply by asking the Turkish 
President the following questions.
Is  it  incomprehensible  to  aspire  to  establish  an 
independent  and  sovereign  State  without  foreign 
guarantees  and  the  intervention  of  a  third  country, 
while  enjoying 
the  presence  of 
occupation troops?
freedom 
from 
Is  it  irrational  to  advocate  establishing  a  normal 
State  in  which  all  decisions  are  made  only  by  its 
citizens, free from foreign dependencies?
17-29579
15/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
Is  it  unreasonable  for  an  EU  member  State 
the 
to  efficiently  and  effectively  participate 
decision-making of the European Union?
in 
to  envision 
terminating 
Is 
it  unfounded 
the 
anachronistic  Treaty  of  Guarantee  and  establishing 
a  robust  security  system  based  on  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and the relevant treaties of the European 
Union and the Council of Europe?
Is  it  against  any  established  principle  for  the 
United  Nations,  as  well  as  the  relevant  institutions  of 
the EU, to ensure and safeguard the smooth and secure 
implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the  settlement? 
And is it a paradox to reject Turkey’s insistence that it 
should assume that role?
Does  any  constitution  of  a  federal  State  provide 
that, for every decision at the federal level, at least one 
positive vote by the members of the State is required, 
especially when one of the members of the federation is 
controlled by a third party?
Finally,  could  anyone  maintain  that  reaching  a 
settlement based on Turkey’s proposals would have led 
to establishing a functional and viable State?
Despite  our  disappointment,  what  I  want 
to 
emphatically stress and convey is that the vision of the 
people  of  Cyprus  is  simply  to  end  the  unacceptable 
status  quo  and  establish  a  federal  State  that  would 
ensure  all  generations  of  Greek  and  Turkish  Cypriots 
conditions  of  stability  for  a  safe,  prosperous  and 
peaceful  future;  a  State  free  from  any  foreign 
interventions and dependencies; a “normal State”, as the 
Secretary-General has very correctly stated; a State led 
by Cypriots for Cypriots. In that regard, and contrary 
to  the  statements  made  by  Turkish  officials,  it  is  my 
intention,  at  tomorrow’s  meeting  with  the  Secretary-
General,  to  convey  our  readiness  to  immediately 
resume negotiations in accordance with his framework 
and in line with the relevant United Nations resolutions.
Within this context, it is widely acknowledged that 
if  a  new  conference  on  Cyprus  is  to  convene,  and  in 
order  to  avoid  a  repetition  of  the  shortcomings  of  the 
past,  there  should  be  thorough  and  solid  preparations 
and strong political will and determination on the part 
of all interested parties and stakeholders so as to ensure 
that  this  time  deliberations  will  lead  to  a  positive 
outcome. For that, I have no doubt that the Secretary-
General  and  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council will offer us their support and help.
At the same time, at this critical juncture we need 
an alternative to unilateral actions that have a negative 
effect  on  the  aim  of  moving  the  process  forward. 
Mutually agreed confidence-building measures that are 
in  line  with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions 
and reports of the Secretary-General, such as the return 
and resettlement of Varosha to its rightful and lawful 
inhabitants,  would  be  game-changers  in  creating  a 
climate  conducive  to  resuming  negotiations  with  the 
aim of reaching a comprehensive settlement. That aim 
would  be  further  reinforced  through  progress  on  the 
humanitarian  issue  of  missing  persons.  To  that  end,  I 
call  on  Turkey  to  fully  cooperate  in  order  to  resolve 
this  tragic  issue.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  urge 
all  countries  that  may  hold  information  to  open  their 
archives in order to support our efforts to bring an end 
to this tragic aspect of the Cyprus problem.
In  conclusion,  I  once  again  urge  Turkey  and  our 
Turkish  Cypriot  compatriots  to  realize  that  it  is  only 
through mutual respect and compromises, not obsolete 
fixations  on  failed  practices,  that  we  will  achieve  a 
viable and lasting settlement that has neither winners nor 
losers and fully respects and addresses the sensitivities 
and concerns of both communities. That is the only way 
for Cyprus to fully utilize its potential and exploit its 
unique geographical position. That is my vision.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Cyprus for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Nicos Anastasiades, President of the Republic 
of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, 
President of Faso and President of the Council of 
Ministers of Burkina Faso
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of  Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of 
Burkina Faso.
Mr.  Roch  Marc  Christian  Kaboré,  President  of 
Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers 
of  Burkina  Faso,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
16/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Roch  Marc 
Christian  Kaboré,  President  of  Faso  and  President  of 
the Council of Ministers of Burkina Faso, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Kaboré (spoke in French): The seventy-
second session of the General Assembly is being held at 
a time when the world’s ability to make progress faces 
continued  significant  challenges.  The  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  the  fight  against 
terrorism  and  extremism,  the  eradication  of  poverty, 
and  the  achievement  of  sustainable  development  and 
a  fairer  and  more  humane  international  order  are  our 
main  concerns  today.  They  test  us  unremittingly,  and 
we have an urgent and pressing duty to provide rapid 
and sustainable solutions.
My delegation and I congratulate the President of 
the  General  Assembly  on  his  well-deserved  election, 
and I would like to assure him of our full cooperation 
in his successful conduct of his work. I also thank his 
predecessor for his effective execution of his mandate.
 I would also like to pay tribute to Secretary-General 
António Guterres who, during his first few months at 
the  head  of  our  Organization,  has  demonstrated  his 
fully  committment  to  peace  and  development  and  his 
resolve to pursue the ambitious goal of revitalizing the 
United Nations.
Two  years  ago  we  adopted 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  in  order  to  give  a  new 
global  momentum  to  peace,  prosperity,  development, 
justice and humanism. The entry into force of the Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  was  welcome  in  that 
regard.  The  establishment  of  a  follow-up  and  review 
mechanism  for  the  implementation  of  the  SDGs,  as 
well  as  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  to  monitor  the  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  are  also 
real achievements.
Despite  those  successes,  obstacles  remain  on  the 
path  to  building  a  world  of  peace  and  prosperity.  I 
would therefore stress the importance of our theme this 
session, which restores the human individual to the heart 
of our global development and governance policies.
We  cannot  forget  that  every  day  in  Africa,  in 
my country and in others, men and women are dying 
because  of  a  lack  of  care  or  food,  children  are  not 
enjoying  the  fundamental  right  to  education,  young 
people  are  reduced  to  facing  the  rage  of  the  seas  and 
oceans to seek a better future, and entire populations 
are  condemned  to  wander  endlessly  as  victims  of 
conflicts  and  disaster,  all  against  the  backdrop  of  an 
international  context  overshadowed  by  terrorism  and 
extreme violence. Obviously, it is now more important 
than ever to change our paradigms, in our conduct of 
both domestic and international affairs, in order to move 
from rhetoric to action and a results-based approach.
The  success  of  the  round  table  of  public  and 
private  donors  to  our  national  plan  for  economic  and 
social  development,  following  the  appeal  that  I  made 
at this forum on 22 September 2016 (see A/71/PV.15), 
speaks  to  our  partners’  confidence  in  my  country.  I 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  offer  them  our 
deep gratitude. Burkina Faso is engaged in a process of 
economic  recovery  through  major  structural  reforms, 
and  one  of  the  objectives  is  to  attract,  facilitate  and 
secure investments.
With  a  view  to  strengthening  our  participatory 
democracy  by  putting  citizens  in  charge  of  the 
functioning  of  the  State,  Burkina  Faso  joined  the 
Partnership  for  an  Open  Government  in  2016.  In  that 
context, we are drawing up our first national action plan 
to strengthen the fight against corruption and improve 
our  quality  of  governance,  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation 
with  non-State  actors,  civil-society  organizations  and 
the media. At the same time, an array of reforms aimed 
at  strengthening  our  democracy  and  optimizing  our 
institutions is moving ahead smoothly. A preliminary 
draft constitution has been prepared by representatives 
of every sector of society, and the judiciary is working 
independently  to  resolve  the  political  and  economic 
disputes  and  crimes  that  have  plagued  our  national 
reconciliation efforts for decades.
Targeted for some time by terrorist and obscurantist 
forces,  my  country  is  fully  aware  of  their  clearly 
stated  intention  to  destabilize  it  and  all  the  countries 
of  the  region.  The  fight  against  terrorism  is  therefore 
a  national  priority,  and  will  succeed  if  it  is  part  not 
only of a subregional approach but also in a context of 
economic development in the most vulnerable areas.
We  are 
therefore  paying  particular  attention 
to  the  north  of  our  country.  While  there  have  been 
some  operational  successes  there,  we  must  bolster 
them  through  the  emergency  investment  programme 
that  we  recently  adopted  as  a  way  to  reduce  the 
vulnerability  of  populations,  especially  young  people 
and  women.  However  —  and  we  cannot  reiterate  this 
17-29579
17/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
enough  —  terrorism  is  above  all  a  global  scourge. 
Given  that  it  strikes  without  discrimination,  it  calls 
for a clear and firm condemnation from all of us and 
an  effective  collective  response  based  on  solidarity 
and shared efforts and means. That is the raison d’être 
of the Group of Five for the Sahel (G-5 Sahel), whose 
operationalization we are working to accelerate, as the 
inauguration on 10 September in Sévaré, Mali, of the 
G-5 Sahel Force Command Centre demonstrated.
I  also  welcomed  the  Security  Council’s  adoption 
of  resolution  2359  (2017)  on  21  June.  However,  given 
the gravity of the situation in the area, we must seize 
the  opportunity  offered  by  the  consideration  of  the 
Secretary-General’s 
report 
to  strengthen  the  mandate  of  the  Multinational  Joint 
Task  Force  by  providing  it  with  the  means  necessary 
to  achieve  its  mission.  Similarly,  we  welcome  the 
establishment of the Sahel Alliance, whose first high-
level meeting is scheduled for October.
forthcoming 
follow-up 
One of the major challenges in that regard remains 
the  mobilization  of  resources,  as  we  stressed  at  the 
high-level meeting held on 18 September here in New 
York, under the auspices of the Secretary-General, on 
the situation in the Sahel. We hope that the international 
planning  conference  provided  for  in  resolution  2359 
(2017), to be held in Brussels in December, will fulfil 
all its promises.
The quest for peace must remain at the heart of our 
common  action,  especially  that  of  our  Organization. 
In  Africa,  many  hotbeds  of  tension  persist.  While  we 
welcome  the  recent  political  developments  in  Mali,  it 
should be noted that the security situation in the north 
of  that  country  remains  highly  precarious.  I  hope 
that  the  establishment  of  a  sanctions  regime  by  the 
Security Council on 5 September, at the request of the 
Government  of  Mali,  will  be  an  effective  additional 
lever  for  the  implementation  of  the  Agreement  on 
Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  Mali.  We  invite  all  the 
forces present in Mali — including the National Armed 
Forces, the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in Mali, Operation Barkhane and 
the G-5 Sahel force — to work in good faith and in full 
coordination in order to expedite the definitive return 
of peace and security to the region.
Mr.  Rabary-Njaka  (Madagascar),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
We must remain mobilized to bring to a successful 
conclusion the processes of conflict resolution or exit 
from  the  crises  in  Libya,  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Somalia, 
South  Sudan  and  Burundi.  We  call  on  the  various 
protagonists  to  promote  dialogue  and  reconciliation, 
and to recognize that they will be the primary owners 
and architects of peace in their countries. Concerning 
the question of Western Sahara, Burkina Faso reiterates 
its  call  for  dialogue  and  negotiation,  in  a  spirit  of 
compromise,  with  a  view  to  achieving  a  political  and 
realistic settlement of the dispute.
The  Palestinian  issue  continues  to  be  a  major 
concern. I welcomed the holding in January of the Paris 
Conference, which reaffirmed a solution whereby two 
States, Israel and Palestine, should live side by side in 
peace and within secure and internationally recognized 
borders.  The  commitment  of  both  parties  is  the  only 
way  to  end  the  conflict  and  achieve  a  peaceful  and 
definitive settlement.
The efforts of the international community in Iraq, 
Syria and Yemen must be intensified if we do not wish 
to see that part of the world sink into perpetual chaos. 
Burkina Faso is also concerned about the situation in 
the Gulf Cooperation Council. It urges the protagonists 
to give priority to dialogue and negotiation in order to 
end to that crisis.
Burkina  Faso  condemns  North  Korea’s  nuclear 
tests, which pose a threat to the peace and security of the 
Korean peninsula and the world. We urge that country 
to respect the resolutions of the Security Council, and 
hope  that  the  logic  of  dialogue  and  negotiation  will 
prevail over that of escalation and confrontation.
In that context, I reaffirm my country’s commitment 
to general and complete disarmament and its support for 
the efforts of the United Nations to that end, in relation 
both to weapons of mass destruction and conventional 
weapons. In that regard, I urge all countries, especially 
those  whose  ratification  is  required,  to  prioritize  the 
entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  as  soon  as  possible.  The  adoption  of  the 
Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons on 7 July 
should give further impetus to that effort.
The proliferation of small arms and light weapons 
poses one of the main threats to international peace and 
security. My country, which actively participated in the 
development  of  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty,  is  convinced 
that  its  implementation  will  help  to  eradicate  that 
scourge, which is a genuine obstacle to the development 
of our States.
18/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
Multilateralism  is  the  tool  par  excellence  of 
dialogue and solidarity among peoples. In that regard, 
the  international  community  would  certainly  benefit 
from the Republic of China on Taiwan’s effective and 
broader  participation  in  the  specialized  agencies  and 
mechanisms of the United Nations system. In the name 
of that same dialogue and solidarity, which characterize 
peaceful relations among the actors on the international 
stage, Burkina Faso is in favour of the total lifting of 
the embargo on Cuba so that Havana and Washington, 
D.C.,  can  maintain  mutually  beneficial  partnership 
relations.
United Nations reform remains a central issue for the 
world’s governing body. We must approach it with the 
courage and serenity that seeing justice done for Africa 
requires, particularly with regard to its representation 
on the Security Council. That accords with the African 
Common  Position  and  our  Organization’s  necessary 
adaptation  to  a  changing  world.  At  a  time  of  such 
uncertainty  and  upheaval,  we  must  shoulder  our 
responsibility to give our citizens reason to believe that 
a better future lies ahead and that we can bequeath a 
safer world to the next generation.
The  United  Nations  is  the  best  instrument  we 
have  for  that.  Let  us  all  commit  here  and  now  to 
making  the  United  Nations  stronger,  more  modern 
and  more  efficient.  In  that  regard,  we  know  that  we 
can count on the Secretary-General’s commitment and 
determination.  I  firmly  believe  that  he  will  play  his 
part  in  implementing  bold  reforms  so  that  the  United 
Nations can be a genuine Organization of the people.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of 
Burkina Faso for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Roch  Marc  Christian  Kaboré,  President  of 
Faso  and  President  of  the  Council  of  Ministers 
of  Burkina  Faso,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, 
President of the Republic of Ghana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Ghana.
  Mr.  Nana  Addo  Dankwa  Akufo-Addo,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Nana Addo 
Dankwa  Akufo-Addo,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Ghana, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Akufo-Addo:  It  has  been  60  years 
since  my  country,  Ghana,  became  a  Member  of  the 
Organization. We joined when we became independent, 
some 12 years after the first meeting of the Organization 
in  San  Francisco,  and  Ghana  has  been  an  active 
participant in the United Nations ever since.
 I want to thank the United Nations for the honour 
done  Ghana  by  my  appointment  by  the  Secretary-
General  as  co-Chair  of 
the  advocacy  group  of 
eminent  persons  for  the  United  Nations  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), to continue in the position 
that  was  held  by  my  predecessor  as  President,  His 
Excellency Mr. John Dramani Mahama. That mark of 
trust in Ghana’s leaders is a matter of justifiable pride 
for the Ghanian people, a trust I pledge to uphold.
On  25  September  2015,  when  the  SDGs  were 
adopted, there were sceptics who feared that the Goals 
were  too  many  and  too  complex  to  be  successfully 
tackled, even with concerted effort. The lesson that we 
have learned from the experience of the Organization, 
however, is that once the world puts its collective mind 
to something, the chances are that we will get it right. 
Every day, something happens to bring home to us, the 
inhabitants of the planet, that we are in it together.
There  is  no  better  or  more  dramatic  indication  of 
that truth than the images that have recently dominated 
our television screens of devastation caused by floods 
in Houston, Texas; Dhaka, Bangladesh; Mumbai, India; 
Palpa,  Nepal;  Dominica,  Puerto  Rico,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  and  Saint  Martin,  all  in  the  Caribbean,  and 
Niamey, in the Niger. One of the most modern cities in 
the richest, most powerful nation on our Earth suffered 
the  same  fate  as  did  Niamey  in  the  Sahel  region  of 
Africa,  one  of  the  poorest  parts  of  the  world.  At  the 
height  of  the  raging  storms,  one  thing  became  clear. 
It did not matter if you were in the richest or poorest 
part of the world, the awesome power of nature was on 
display  and  we  humans  came  across  as  the  same  sad 
creatures at the mercy of nature.
17-29579
19/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
As I watched and listened along with the rest of the 
world, it occurred to me that taken altogether, the SDGs 
are  indeed  a  worthy  set  of  Goals  for  the  world.  They 
bear repeating — no poverty, zero hunger, good health 
and  well-being,  quality  education,  clean  water  and 
sanitation, decent work and economic growth, industry, 
inequality, 
innovation  and  infrastructure,  reduced 
sustainable  cities  and  communities, 
responsible 
consumption  and  production,  life  below  water,  life 
on  land,  peace,  justice  and  strong  institutions,  to  be 
achieved through partnerships for the Goals. We should 
work  hard  to  achieve  the  Goals;  the  world  will  be  a 
much better place.
Ghana was the first country in sub-Saharan Africa 
to gain its freedom from colonial rule. This year marks 
the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  its  independence,  and  it  is 
auspicious  that  I  am  addressing  the  Assembly  for  the 
first time on the birthday of our historic first President 
Kwame  Nkrumah  —  the  day  we  have  set  aside  to 
commemorate him.
We believe that it is time Africa came of age and 
held  its  rightful  place  on  the  world  stage.  Africa  will 
be  neither  a  pawn  nor  a  victim.  This  Africa  will  be 
honest  with  itself  and  with  the  world.  It  will  shed  its 
cloak of poverty and become prosperous. We are under 
no illusions about the hard work it will take to achieve 
our stated goals, but we are not afraid of hard work. We 
know that the critical ingredient in making sustainable 
economic  progress  is  to  ensure  a  stable,  democratic 
system of Government.
I believe that we are making that progress in Ghana. 
After  years  of  political  turmoil  and  accompanying 
economic  chaos,  a  consensus  has  emerged  in  our 
Fourth  Republic.  We  have  had  political  stability  for 
the past 25 years and a multiparty democracy in which 
regular  elections  are  now  an  accepted  feature  of  our 
governance. I am here today because of elections last 
December, in which the people of Ghana voted out an 
incumbent Government and gave me and my party the 
mandate and honour to govern our nation for the next 
four years. We continue to be a beacon of democracy 
and stability on the continent. Our institutions of State 
are growing stronger and we have made more progress 
with our economy than at any time since independence.
We  are  nowhere  near  where  we  want  to  be,  but 
we  are  determined  to  realize  our  potential  and  make 
Ghana  a  prosperous  nation.  There  will  always  be  the 
adventurous among us Ghanaians who would want to 
seek challenges in different parts of the world. We wish 
them well, and expect that wherever they go they will be 
welcomed and treated with dignity. But we are working 
to  grow  our  economy  and  open  up  opportunities  for 
all our citizens. No longer should Ghanaians feel that 
they  have  to  subject  themselves  to  the  intolerable 
and  inhumane  conditions  of  crossing  the  Sahara  and 
drowning  in  the  Mediterranean  in  hopes  of  making  a 
living in Europe.
We  have  just  started  the  free  senior  high  school 
programme that aims to guarantee secondary education 
for  all  of  Ghana’s  children.  It  will  ensure  that  all  our 
children  will  be  educated  at  least  to  the  secondary 
level, and that money, or the lack of it, will no longer 
mean being denied an education. That has already led 
to  an  increase  of  more  than  90,000  children  entering 
secondary  school 
the  current  academic  year 
who  would  otherwise  have  dropped  out  at  by  now. 
Sustainable Development Goal 4, which aims to ensure 
inclusive,  equitable,  quality  education  and  promote 
lifelong  learning  opportunities  for  all,  will  be  within 
our reach by the target date. We do not want to be a scar 
on anybody’s conscience. We want to build an economy 
that  is  not  dependent  on  charity  and  handouts.  Long 
and bitter experience has taught us that no matter how 
generous the charity, we would remain poor.
in 
We  want  to  build  a  Ghana  that  looks  to  the  use 
of  its  own  resources  and  their  proper  management  as 
the  way  to  engineer  social  and  economic  growth  in 
the  country.  We  want  to  build  an  economy  that  looks 
past  commodities  in  order  to  position  our  country 
in  the  global  marketplace.  We  are  not  rejecting  aid, 
but  we  do  want  to  discard  a  mindset  of  dependency 
and  living  on  handouts.  We  want  to  build  a  Ghana 
beyond aid. It is an easier platform on which to build 
sustainable relationships.
In talking about sustainable relations, Africa and, 
indeed, Ghana are committed to ensuring that we remain 
a continent free of nuclear weapons. Three weeks ago, 
highly enriched uranium was flown out of Ghana back 
to China, signalling the end of the removal of all such 
material from the country. Our nuclear reactor has since 
been  converted  to  using  low-enriched  fuel  for  power 
generation. A world free of nuclear weapons is in our 
collective interest.
I  wish  to  reaffirm  my  country’s  commitment  to 
maintaining  friendly  and  cordial  relations  with  all 
the  countries  and  peoples  of  the  world.  Ghana’s  full 
20/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
engagement,  through  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States,  in  the  process  of  West  African 
integration,  and  through  the  African  Union,  in  the 
process  of  African  integration,  remains  a  goal  of  my 
Government. Regional and continental integration are 
in Ghana’s interest, as they represent one of the surest 
ways of establishing the conditions for prosperity on the 
continent in the decades ahead. They will also help to 
ensure security and combat the scourges of terrorism, 
extremism and intolerance.
The conflicts that continue to plague our continent 
in Libya, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo and Mali would be more effectively resolved if 
the  international  community  were  to  support  and  not 
undermine the efforts of our regional and continental 
organizations  to  deal  with  them.  Ghana  will  also 
continue to be active in the multilateral organizations 
to  which  we  belong,  such  as  La  Francophonie,  the 
Commonwealth  of  Nations  and  the  United  Nations, 
because we believe multilateral action and international 
cooperation are in our common interest.
We want to build a Ghana that will enable our people 
to deal with the rest of the world on an equal playing 
field. I am saying nothing new when I draw attention 
to the urgent need to reform the Organization. While it 
has been talked about and scheduled for a long time, we 
have somehow never found the courage or the will to 
reform the United Nations. Ghana supports the process 
of  United  Nations  reform,  especially  of  the  Security 
Council,  as  set  out  in  the  African  Common  Position 
on  United  Nations  reform,  based  on  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus.  The  time  is  long  overdue  to  correct  the 
long-standing  injustice  that  the  current  structure  and 
composition of the Security Council represents for the 
nations of Africa.
We  cannot  continue  to  preach  democracy  and 
fairness  and  insist  on  peace  and  justice  around  the 
world when our global Organization is not seen by the 
majority  of  its  Member  States  as  having  a  structure 
that is just and fair. Indeed, many see it as helping to 
perpetuate  an  unfair  world  order.  The  Organization 
provides  the  best  vehicle  for  the  world  to  manage  its 
many  and  varied  problems,  and  we  would  undermine 
its credibility and fail in our duty if we did not reform 
the United Nations. Let us not dare to let ourselves and 
future generations down. The time for reform has come.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Ghana for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Nana  Addo  Dankwa  Akufo-Addo,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of 
the Gabonese Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Gabonese Republic.
Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of 
the 
Gabonese Republic, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Bongo 
Ondimba, President of the Gabonese Republic, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Bongo Ondimba (spoke in French): At 
the outset, let me congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on 
his  outstanding  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session. I wish to assure 
him of Gabon’s support in his fulfilment of the mandate 
entrusted to him. I also commend the valuable work of 
his predecessor, Ambassador Peter Thomson.
to 
It  is  a  privilege  for  me  to  convey  my  warm 
congratulations 
the  new  Secretary-General, 
Mr. António Guterres. I believe firmly that his rich and 
long experience is a valuable asset to our Organization, 
and  I  welcome  his  special  emphasis  on  conflict 
prevention in his inaugural speech.
The  theme  of  the  general  debate  of  this  session, 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”, lies at the very heart 
of our priorities. It reminds us all of the place that the 
human individual must occupy in our respective actions 
and  of  our  obligation  to  reconcile  development  and 
durable peace with the preservation of the environment 
for present and future generations. It is up to us all to 
act to fashion a human species for whom a decent life 
for all will be self-evident.
Along  with  security,  peace 
is  an  essential 
prerequisite  for  the  development  of  Africa,  including 
my  country  of  Gabon.  In  that  connection,  Africa 
continues  to  occupy  the  lion’s  share  of  the  Security 
17-29579
21/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
Council’s  agenda,  and  my  country  therefore  endorses 
the African position in favour of a permanent seat for 
Africa on the Council.
Inasmuch as peace is essential at the international 
level,  peace  and  security  at  the  national  level  are 
the  basic  ingredients  for  development  and  for  the 
participation of all in the democratic debate. Gabon is 
a country that bears the stamp of peace, and we want 
to remain the haven of fraternity and solidarity that we 
have always been. That is why, at the beginning of the 
year, I convened a political dialogue to which I invited 
all  of  the  nation’s  most  prominent  persons.  Everyone 
who participated in the dialogue was able to candidly 
discuss all of our country’s important issues and desired 
reforms.  We  reached  compromises  that  were  difficult 
but also dynamic and necessary — on the voting system, 
electoral  procedures  and  the  organization  of  powers. 
Moreover,  the  implementation  of  the  conclusions 
of  the  political  dialogue  has  already  begun,  with  the 
recent  formation  of  a  new  Government  that  includes 
representatives from the opposition and civil society.
With 
the  adoption 
first  of 
the  Organization 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals and, subsequently, of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs), 
is 
continuing  its  efforts  to  mobilize  the  international 
community in order to offer humankind a decent life on 
a preserved planet. Beyond such declarations, however, 
if we are to achieve the SDGs, the time has come to give 
the Organization the resources it needs to carry out its 
work through predictable and sustained financing.
As  for  Gabon,  the  new  Government  is  operating 
under  a  framework  entitled  “Emerging  Gabon  2025: 
a  vision,  a  strategy,  a  road  map”,  aimed  at  achieving 
sustainable development and diversifying the national 
economy.  That  approach,  which  seeks  to  reduce  the 
country’s  dependence  on  extractive  industries  and 
dampen the volatility of raw-material prices, is already 
taking shape through an industrial base that is creating 
jobs and wealth, the Nkok special economic zone.
Gabon has not been spared from the crisis that has 
affected our entire planet and that has been reflected in 
an economic slowdown that has had a negative impact on 
employment, particularly for young people. In response, 
we  have  adopted  an  economic  recovery  programme 
aimed at providing new economic momentum through 
measures that adjust the budget, develop infrastructure 
and  encourage  the  private  sector  to  leverage  our 
economy’s diversification and transformation.
Nevertheless,  my  Government  is  striving  to  offer 
the people of Gabon better living conditions through a 
number of measures, ranging from reducing the prices 
of  food  staples  to  building  new  hospitals.  I  have  also 
initiated  an  equal-opportunity  programme  that  will 
enable all Gabonese people to enjoy the same resources 
as  they  embark  on  a  path  of  personal  and  collective 
fulfilment.  To  that  end,  I  have  placed  women’s 
empowerment at the heart of the Government’s agenda.
The  future  of  our  planet  will  depend  on  our 
determination  to  honour  the  commitments  that  we 
undertook  in  the  Paris  Agreement  during  the  twenty-
first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. We do not 
have the right to disappoint our peoples at this historic 
moment,  because  the  challenges  posed  by  global 
warming are not simply environmental in nature — they 
are  also  political,  economic  and  security  challenges. 
We have even less right to disappoint our peoples, given 
that the reality that we may wish to ignore calls attention 
to  itself  every  day  with  increasingly  brutal  force,  in 
the  form  of  all  the  recent  environmental  disasters. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the 
condolences and moral support of the people of Gabon 
to  the  countries  that  have  been  victims  of  the  recent 
hurricanes and cyclones, as well as the victims of the 
earthquake in Mexico.
Gabon  will  not  deviate  from  its  path.  Our  public 
policies  will  continue  to  be  aimed  at  managing  our 
resources  responsibly  and  sustainably.  In  that  spirit, 
my country has just created 20 marine protected areas 
in addition to our existing 13 national parks on land. I 
have also instructed the Government to strengthen its 
reforestation  policy  so  as  to  ensure  the  sustainability 
of  our  forests.  With  regard  to  my  country’s  ongoing 
commitment  to  those  key  issues,  I  have  agreed  to 
lead  the  Committee  of  African  Heads  of  State  and 
Government on Climate Change for the next two years, 
following the term of my Egyptian brother President Al 
Sisi. I will be responsible for bringing Africa’s voice to 
all climate-change negotiations.
At  the  subregional  level,  my  peers  have  also 
appointed  me  Secretary-General  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  Central  African  States  (ECCAS).  My 
task will be to spearhead an institutional reform process 
in that important regional integration body. We are even 
more determined to ensure economic integration in our 
subregion  because  we  believe  that  joint  development 
is needed in order to deal with the fluctuations in the 
22/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
international market. Through its Office in Libreville, 
ECCAS  supports  Central  Africa  in  its  efforts  to  deal 
with  the  peace  and  security  challenges  in  the  region. 
In that regard, member countries have confirmed their 
firm determination to fight the beast of terrorism in all 
its forms regardless of its motivation.
strategy, 
that  scourge 
to  eradicating 
To  that  end,  the  subregional  counter-terrorism 
strategy  for  Central  Africa,  which  was  recently 
endorsed  in  Yaoundé  and  is  in  line  with  the  African 
translates  our 
Union  counter-terrorism 
commitment 
through 
concrete steps. I take this opportunity to commend the 
upcoming  holding  of  a  joint  summit  of  ECCAS  and 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  on 
counter-terrorism,  which  I  have  always  hoped  to  see 
happen and which was encouraged by Security Council 
resolution  2349  (2017).  I  also  commend  the  initiative 
taken by the countries of the Group of Five for the Sahel 
to  establish  a  subregional  force  to  effectively  combat 
terrorism and all other threats to peace and security.
Combating  terrorism  is  a  multifaceted  and  long-
term  struggle  that  requires  cooperation  among  States 
and solidarity with the victims of such barbarism. The 
response cannot be exclusively military. I therefore call 
for  the  implementation  of  the  relevant  provisions  of 
resolution 2199 (2015) in order to reduce the sources of 
financing for these criminal networks.
In  addition  to  terrorism,  another  serious  threat 
to  many  countries,  including  mine,  is  poaching.  In 
that  regard,  my  country  has  sponsored  an  important 
resolution  aimed  at  pooling  our  efforts  to  contain 
the  problem,  which  decimates  our  flora  and  fauna 
and  encourages  instability  in  a  number  of  regions, 
particularly  in  Africa.  Speedy  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  put  forward  in  the  resolution  is 
essential  and  should  guide  us  in  seeking  the  proper 
balance  between  the  protection  of  nature  and  the 
survival of local populations, who are actually the main 
victims of poaching.
Among 
situations 
the  worrying  current 
in 
Africa,  that  in  the  Central  African  Republic  requires 
our  sustained  attention.  Gabon  continues  to  have  a 
presence in that brother country as part of the United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission in the Central African Republic. I call on our 
various  partners  to  support  the  action  plan  developed 
by  ECCAS  and  the  Central  African  Economic  and 
Monetary  Community,  as  well  as  the  disarmament, 
demobilization and reintegration programme.
Similarly, the arms embargo must be lifted for the 
legal and legitimate Government of the Central African 
Republic  exclusively,  so  that  it  can  restore  security 
and its authority throughout the national territory. The 
resilience and defiance of the negative forces that are 
ravaging  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the 
Central African Republic and other parts of the Central 
African subregion derive their strength from the illegal 
exploitation  of  underground  natural  resources  and 
wildlife.  International  measures  designed  to  combat 
the  illegal  trade  in  such  resources  must  be  properly 
enforced  if  we  wish  to  defeat  the  armed  groups  that 
continue to carry out such criminal activities.
Working to foster peace also requires eliminating 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  by  implementing  the 
relevant  international  instruments.  Some  parts  of  the 
Middle East have been the focus of the serious threats to 
international peace and security caused by the nebulous 
terrorist organization known as the Islamic State, which 
is exacerbating instability in Syria and Iraq.
In  that  connection,  we  must  address  the  question 
of Palestine, which remains a thorn in the side of the 
international  community.  In  my  view,  the  resumption 
of direct talks between the two sides remains the only 
way to reach a solution. I commend the efforts by the 
United  States  and  France  to  push  for  a  resumption  of 
the peace process.
Similarly,  we  have  noted  the  recent  events  on 
the  Korean  peninsula  and  remain  firmly  committed 
to  peace  and  stability  in  that  part  of  the  world.  We 
call  for  strict  compliance  with  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions in that regard.
Another major human tragedy unfolding before our 
eyes  is  the  situation  of  the  Rohingya  in  Myanmar.  In 
the twenty-first century it is simply unacceptable that 
men,  women  and  children  are  being  killed  or  forced 
to flee their country for the mere fact that they belong 
to  a  particular  religious  community.  The  Assembly’s 
universal conscience cannot and must not accept that.
Finally,  and  in  connection  with  international 
solidarity  and  justice,  lifting  the  embargo  that  has 
plagued Cuba for several decades is only fair.
Our  Organization  is  blowing  out  its  seventy-
second  candle.  Its  universal  vocation  has  been  firmly 
established.  I  am  confident  that,  with  our  collective 
17-29579
23/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
determination, it will be able to overcome the current 
multifaceted  challenges  to  peace  and  security  in  the 
world. That is why prioritizing human beings by ensuring 
peace and a decent life for all on a protected planet is no 
longer a simple ambition but a collective duty.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Gabonese  Republic  for  the  statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of 
the 
Gabonese Republic, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, 
President of the Republic of Yemen
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Yemen.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdrabuh 
Mansour  Hadi  Mansour,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mansour  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf 
of the Government and the people of Yemen, I sincerely 
congratulate  the  President  and  his  friendly  nation, 
Slovakia,  on  assuming  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, and wish him 
every  success  in  his  endeavours.  I  would  also  like  to 
express my great appreciation for the significant efforts 
of his predecessor, Mr. Peter Thomson, in guiding the 
work of the previous session.
I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
exceptional efforts in implementing the Organization’s 
noble  mission  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  and  in  employing  all  its  good  offices  with  a 
view  to  achieving  sustainable  peace  in  my  country, 
Yemen. We are also grateful to his Special Envoy for 
Yemen, Mr. Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed.
This debate is being held as we in the Republic of 
Yemen  are  ending  our  third  year  of  the  war  imposed 
on our people by the Houthi/Saleh coalition, following 
its  rebellion  against  the  consensus  solutions  adopted 
under  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  Initiative  and 
its  Implementation  Mechanism  and  the  outcomes  of 
the  national  dialogue,  as  well  as  the  political  process 
carried  out  fully  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations. The political process culminated in a visit to 
Sana’a by the former Secretary-General, where he held 
a special meeting with the Security Council in Yemen. 
The evil Houthi/Saleh coalition has rebelled against the 
national consensus, which was based on the outcomes 
of  the  national  dialogue  and  included  all  the  Yemeni 
political parties and social factions. It has used violence 
and terrorism to rebel against the legitimately elected 
leadership  and  armed  force  against  our  people.  It  has 
destroyed  the  cities  of  Yemen  and  taken  the  entire 
country hostage.
After exhausting every possible peaceful political 
means to turn this evil coalition away from the path of 
violence and terrorism that it has chosen, the Yemeni 
people,  in  all  their  various  factions,  have  united  and 
resisted  the  rebels’  de  facto  policy  of  facilitating 
Iranian  expansionism  in  our  region.  To  that  end,  we 
have  requested  support,  on  behalf  of  the  people  of 
Yemen, from our brothers in the Arab coalition under 
the leadership of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. They 
have responded to our request and granted us support.
The  theme  of  the  seventy-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  represents  what  we  have  been 
seeking  in  Yemen.  Through  negotiations  in  Geneva, 
Vienna  and  Kuwait,  our  legitimate  leadership  has 
sought  a  sustainable,  fair  and  lasting  peace  that  will 
not falter and that lays the foundation for a real State 
that ensures peace and security for all its citizens and 
prevents violence. We seek a peace that grants the State 
alone  a  monopoly  on  the  use  of  force  and  prevents 
armed  militias  from  forming  and  operating  in  the 
country. It must be a peace that is based on consensual 
documents  that  people  have  agreed  on  and  that  have 
received international and regional support.
Here,  I  would  like  to  clarify  a  commonly  heard 
claim  that  our  problem  in  Yemen  is  one  of  political 
differences  that  cannot  be  managed  merely  by  sitting 
around  negotiation  tables,  despite  our  efforts  and 
compromises in that regard. But what we are facing is 
not  even  a  coup  d’état  as  it  is  commonly  understood. 
It  transcends  that  and  is  based  on  a  difference  in 
philosophies,  ideologies  and  values.  We  are  dealing 
with  extremist  religious  sects  that  believe  that  God 
has granted them an ethnic superiority and the right to 
rule, to forge alliances with forces that seek retaliation 
24/26 
17-29579
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.11
and that go against all human values. In this way, the 
coup  of  the  Houthis,  who  are  racist,  backward  and 
patrilineal,  has  gone  beyond  any  traditional  military 
coups  d’état,  which  still  preserve  the  State  and  its 
institutions.  These  militias  are  destroying  all  State 
institutions.  The  army  and  security  forces  have  been 
replaced by popular committees and militias that serve 
one faction only, based on ethnicity. That also affects 
economic institutions.
Our  resources  are  utterly  depleted,  and  we  have 
not  even  been  able  to  pay  salaries  for  almost  a  year. 
The private sector has disappeared, replaced by a new 
class of merchants who function at the expense of our 
national interests. Even our school curricula have been 
replaced  with  extremist  curricula  that  have  provoked 
sectarian  strife.  On  top  of  all  that,  the  opposition 
militias receive full support, politically and militarily, 
in  kind,  in  the  form  of  weapons  and  financing  from 
Iran,  a  State  that  is  determined  to  destabilize  our 
region. Sustained peace can therefore only be possible 
if  Iran  ceases  to  interfere  in  our  affairs,  which  it  has 
been  doing  by  creating  tensions,  inventing  conflicts 
and  stoking  feelings  of  hatred  and  violence.  We  must 
control Iran’s expansionist aspirations in the region.
Member  States  may  remember  that  when  I  stood 
before  the  Assembly  five  years  ago,  I  spoke  of  the 
measures  that  we  would  take  on  the  path  of  peaceful 
political  transition  in  Yemen  in  the  context  of  the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council  Initiative  and  the  National 
Dialogue  Conference  outcomes  (see  A/67/PV.9),  and 
I  informed  them  that  Iran  had  been  taking  various 
measures against us. We have seized shipments carrying 
arms, and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards have been 
supporting  the  militias  in  our  country  and  supplying 
them with long-range missiles. They remain a threat to 
our country and the entire world.
I am trying to give Member States an image of the 
events from the inside. The world needs to understand 
that the rebels are refusing all calls for peace — from 
Kuwait to Geneva — including the latest initiative about 
the port of Al Hudaydah. We announced that we were 
ready to accept the initiative on the Hudaydah seaport, 
but the other side has unilaterally rejected it. They even 
attempted  to  assassinate  an  international  envoy.  They 
have  continued  to  threaten  international  peace  and 
security  and  international  maritime  sea  lanes.  They 
have  also  threatened  our  brothers  in  the  United  Arab 
Emirates, attacking them with rockets.
From  this  rostrum,  I  emphasize  our  continued 
willingness to stop the war and build peace. We are not 
warmongers.  We  desire  peace.  And  I  have  personally 
extended  my  hand,  and  will  continue  to  do  so,  to 
reach a sustainable peace, because we feel the weight 
of  our  responsibility  for  all  citizens  of  the  Yemeni 
State. I affirm that we continue to desire peace based 
on  the  consensus  agreements  and  everything  that  the 
international  community  has  endorsed,  including  the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  2216 
(2015).
I must not forget here to thank our brothers in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, who have led the efforts to 
mitigate  our  humanitarian  crisis  through  the  support 
that  their  country  continues  to  provide  through  the 
King Salman Centre for Humanitarian Aid and Relief, 
and  to  thank  all  of  the  humanitarian  organizations  of 
the  Arab  coalition,  donor  countries  and  the  United 
Nations agencies, as well as all the international efforts 
to combat the cholera outbreak. We stress that we are 
still in need of support and assistance, given our high 
levels  of  poverty,  insecurity  and  food  insecurity.  We 
are still under blockade and at war. The city of Taiz has 
been under siege for three years.
The  situation  is  dire  in  all  of  the  governorates 
under rebel control. Salaries are no longer being paid. 
The State’s resources, including customs incomes, have 
been  looted.  We  therefore  call  on  the  United  Nations 
and  the  international  community  to  shoulder  their 
responsibilities  in  Yemen  by  applying  pressure  on 
the rebels to implement the relevant Security Council 
resolutions  and  offer  real  compromises,  so  that  we 
can avoid more bloodshed and destruction and so that 
humanitarian  assistance  can  reach  the  people  who 
need it.
From this rostrum, I announce that we in the Yemeni 
Government are ready to provide all of the facilitation 
needed so that humanitarian assistance can have access 
everywhere in Yemen, from Sana’a to Al-Mahra, as well 
as in the areas under Houthi control. We are responsible 
before  God  first  and  before  our  people  and  the  world 
as well. We are responsible for all our Yemeni people, 
regardless  of  their  loyalties.  We  want  to  preserve  the 
life of every Yemeni, including those who fire bullets 
at us and target the Yemeni people. As a legitimately 
elected leader, it is my job to save the Yemeni people 
from further bloodshed. It is forbidden for a Yemeni to 
kill another — absolutely forbidden.
17-29579
25/26
A/72/PV.11 
21/09/2017
The  Yemeni  Government  continues  to  face  the 
economic  and  security  challenges  that  stem  from  the 
destruction  of  all  aspects  of  Yemeni  life.  Today,  the 
Yemeni  Government  needs  extensive  support  for  its 
efforts  to  consolidate  peace  and  stability,  provide 
services  in  the  liberated  areas,  control  the  economic 
situation and implement counter-terrorism measures.
We  call  on 
friendly  donor  countries  and 
international organizations to provide urgent support to 
Yemen and uphold the pledges made at the conference 
held in Geneva in April in support of the humanitarian 
response plan for Yemen. One year has passed, and only 
50 per cent of the pledged funding has been provided. 
We  also  want  to  reactivate  the  dormant  Group  of 
Friends of Yemen. We must save Yemen from the crisis 
and  move  from  humanitarian  relief  to  reconstruction 
and economic recovery.
Together  with  our  patient  people  and  all  the 
honourable citizens of the world, we will spare no effort 
to  rid  the  Yemeni  people  of  the  atrocities  committed 
by  the  rebels.  We  will,  with  God’s  help,  fulfil  the 
aspirations of our people to build a federal civil State 
that upholds justice and equality and good governance. 
We will rebuild a new Yemen that embraces all of its 
children  —  a  Yemen  that  is  a  source  of  stability  and 
security for itself, its neighbours and the world.
I  should  not  conclude  without  expressing  my 
sincere  congratulations  to  all  Yemeni  people  and 
freedom-loving  nations  on  the  occasion  of  the  fifty-
fifth  anniversary  of  our  revolution,  on  26  September, 
which we will commemorate in the next few days. That 
revolution uprooted one of the most despotic regimes in 
histor, that of Imam Ahmed in northern Yemen, whom 
liberators toppled to found our Republic in 1963.
The  Republic  of  Yemen  sincerely  and  effectively 
supports counter-terrorism efforts, particularly because 
my  country  has  long  suffered  from  terrorism.  We 
reject  all  forms  of  terrorism  and  continue  to  embrace 
our tolerant Islamic values, which reject violence and 
extremism,  while  calling  for  tolerance  and  brotherly 
relations. We reach out to the international community 
to  coordinate  efforts  in  the  areas  of  security,  culture 
and information and technology, so that we can defeat 
terrorism together.
We are reminded of that racist regime by the Houthis 
and  their  allies.  Over  the  past  three  years,  they  have 
tried to impose a similarly racist regime once again, in 
an even more violent and terroristic manner. During the 
time that our capital of Sana’a has been under Houthi 
control, thousands have been killed, injured or detained. 
The media have been outlawed and journalists arrested, 
along  with  countless  other  retaliatory  measures.  We 
must  control  that  racist  group.  I  salute  our  people  on 
the occasion of the revolution’s anniversary.
Israel’s occupation of the Palestinian territories and 
its settlement policies still represent one of the greatest 
causes of stress in our region. The people of our region 
therefore look to the Assembly to find a fair and lasting 
solution  so  that  the  Palestinian  people  can  establish 
their  own  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
and end the occupation and settlement, as well as the 
suffering of the Palestinian people.
The Republic of Yemen denounces the plight of the 
Rohingya  Muslims  in  Myanmar.  That  genocide  must 
cease. Terrorism in the State must stop, and we call on the 
international community to uphold its responsibilities 
and prevent such monstrous events, which we thought 
our modern world had permanently eliminated.
In conclusion, I wish the General Assembly every 
success  at  its  seventy-second  session  and  hope  that  it 
can achieve more development and effectiveness in its 
work. And I wish all Member States and human society 
prosperity, peace and stability.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen  for  the  statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Yemen,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.
26/26 
17-29579
