United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
25th plenary meeting
Thursday, 28 September 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.25
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Sauer (Finland), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 107 (continued)
Crime prevention and criminal justice
High-level meeting of the General Assembly on 
the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons
The Acting President: Before we proceed, I would 
like to appeal to all speakers to limit their statements to 
three minutes when speaking in their national capacity 
and five minutes when speaking on behalf of a group of 
States, as stipulated in resolution 71/287. As members 
will recall, in resolution 71/323, of 8 September 2017, 
the  General  Assembly  called  for  strict  adherence  by 
each  speaker  to  the  time  limits  of  the  Assembly,  in 
particular during high-level meetings. This will enable 
maximum participation within the limited time available 
for  this  meeting.  Participants  with  longer  statements 
are  encouraged  to  read  a  shorter  version  of  their  text 
and  submit  their  full  statements  to  the  Secretariat  for 
posting on the PaperSmart portal.
Also in accordance with resolution 71/323, the “all 
protocol observed” principle is recommended, whereby 
participants  are  encouraged,  in  the  interest  of  time, 
to  refrain  from  listing  standard  protocol  expressions 
during their statements. In the light of that given time 
frame, I would like to appeal to speakers to deliver their 
statements at a normal speed, so that interpretation may 
be  provided  properly.  To  assist  speakers  in  managing 
their  time,  a  light  system  has  been  installed  at  the 
speaker’s  rostrum.  May  I  appeal  to  all  speakers  for 
their  cooperation  in  observing  the  time  limit  while 
delivering their statements, so that all those inscribed 
will be heard in a timely manner.
I now give the floor to the Chair of the delegation 
of Jamaica.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  Jamaica  welcomes  the 
convening of this high-level meeting, which is consistent 
with the focus of this year’s General Assembly theme 
on people and the quest for a decent life for all. Indeed, 
we  recognize  the  mutually  reinforcing  relationship 
between  the  efforts  that  we  are  making  to  implement 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons.
Seven  years  ago,  the  international  community 
launched  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  tackle  the 
scourge  of  human  trafficking  through  the  adoption 
of  a  coordinated  and  comprehensive  approach.  As  we 
applaud  the  strides  made  on  a  global  level  since  that 
time, the silent cries of victims ensnared in the grip of 
human trafficking must be given a resounding voice in 
every corner of the globe.
The  Government  of  Jamaica  accords  the  highest 
level  of  political  commitment  to  the  fight  against 
human  trafficking  and  unequivocally  denounces  the 
heinous  crime  of  trafficking  in  persons.  We  reaffirm 
our determination to prevent and combat trafficking in 
persons, protect and assist victims, prosecute crimes of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-30244 (E)
*1730244*
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
trafficking  in  persons,  and  strengthen  local,  regional 
and  international  partnerships  through  sound  policies 
and a continued political will.
In  keeping  with  the  Global  Plan  of  Action, 
Jamaica  continues  to  develop  and  strengthen  its 
domestic  legislative  and  institutional  framework.  Our 
overarching  domestic  legislation,  the  Trafficking  in 
Persons  (Prevention,  Suppression  and  Punishment) 
Act of 2007, as amended in 2013, will be bolstered by 
proposed further amendments that provide for trial by 
judge  only  when  it  comes  to  cases  involving  human 
trafficking.  This  proposal  has  been  approved  by  the 
Cabinet and is currently being drafted.
The  Government  of  Jamaica  is  a  State  party  to 
the  relevant  international  instruments  related  to  the 
matter,  including  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and  Children,  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime, 
the  International 
Labour  Organization’s  Forced  Labour  Convention 
and  its  Convention  concerning  the  Prohibition  and 
Immediate  Action  for  the  Elimination  of  the  Worst 
Forms of Child Labour, the Convention on the Rights of 
the Child and its Optional Protocols, and, more broadly, 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
the  highest 
level  of 
institutional  support  to  tackling  human  trafficking. 
We  are  doing  so  through  the  establishment  of  an 
interministerial  subcommittee  of 
to 
monitor and make recommendations on our efforts to 
fight trafficking in persons, and, in 2015, we appointed 
a national rapporteur on trafficking in persons — the 
first to be appointed in the Caribbean.
Jamaica  has  afforded 
the  Cabinet 
in  persons  has 
Furthermore,  our  national 
task  force  against 
trafficking 
the  responsibility  of 
coordinating our national response. The composition of 
the task force demonstrates the level of importance that 
Jamaica  attaches  to  the  issue  and  reflects  the  holistic 
approach  that  we  have  adopted.  The  task  force  is 
multisectoral and multi-stakeholder in nature and spans 
a gamut of ministries, agencies, and non-governmental 
organizations  that  coordinate  their  efforts  aimed  at 
fighting human trafficking.
of  Action,  and  its  implementation  is  undertaken  by  a 
dedicated secretariat established for this purpose.
National  efforts  must  be  adequately  supported  by 
those at the international level, as no country or region 
has remained untouched by this gross assault on human 
life and dignity. We are therefore grateful to our bilateral 
partners  and  appreciative  of  the  ongoing  partnership 
that  we  enjoy  with  the  United  Nations  system,  which 
assists in the strengthening of our capacity to combat 
this global scourge.
In  closing,  Jamaica  is  resolute  in  its  commitment 
to  promoting  and  protecting  the  dignity  and  rights  of 
all Jamaicans. We reaffirm our determination to do our 
part to rid the world of such a heinous crime by taking 
bold, coordinated and intensified action.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Sweden.
Mr. Sunesson (Sweden): Sweden aligns itself with 
the statement delivered by the observer of the European 
Union (see A/72/PV.24) and takes this opportunity to 
shed  some  extra  light  on  a  couple  of  issues  that  we 
believe are of utmost importance in our mutual quest 
to  eradicate  trafficking  in  persons,  in  our  struggle  to 
achieve  the  goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  in  our  efforts  to  deliver  on  our 
promises to help victims of trafficking.
First, we all agree that cooperation among countries 
is  crucial  when  combating  trafficking  in  persons. 
Successful cooperation starts with a shared view of the 
problem and agreement on legal definitions. Therefore, 
as  a  start,  it  is  critical  that  those  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  that  have  not  yet  ratified  the 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and  its  Protocols  Thereto  do  so.  Another  essential 
element in terms of cooperation is the exchange of data 
and best practices and information-sharing as to where 
anti-trafficking projects are being carried out. Equally 
important is getting a sense of which areas of the world 
we should get involved in and where we can do more. 
Sweden  recognizes  the  important  roles  played  by  the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in Persons and the United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime (UNODC) in achieving that goal.
Notwithstanding our resource constraints, Jamaica 
has made significant strides in addressing the issue. Our 
national plan of action to combat trafficking in persons 
incorporates the guiding principles of the Global Plan 
Secondly, all Member States have agreed to work 
towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)  set  forth  in  the  2030  Agenda.  It  is  worth 
emphasizing  the  importance  of  addressing  all  of  the 
2/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
Agenda’s  goals  and  targets  relevant  to  trafficking 
in  persons.  I  would  also  like  to  stress  in  that  regard 
Sweden’s  strong  belief  that  selectivity  of  focus  in 
efforts  to  achieve  the  SDGs  is  counterproductive. 
All  goals  relevant  to  fighting  trafficking  in  persons 
should be made a priority across the three pillars of the 
United Nations.
Thirdly,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  issue  of 
eliminating  the  demand  that  fosters  trafficking  in 
persons. Sweden welcomes a greater focus on reducing 
demand, and we request that the UNODC produce an 
annual report that focuses on national efforts to reduce 
demand for, as an example, cheap labour and women, 
girls and boys for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
It  is  crucial  that  we  all  undertake  measures  that 
promote  and  ensure  decent  work  and  contribute  to 
social  and  economic  integration  and  equality  of 
treatment.  As  long  as  there  are  weak  labour  laws, 
systems or regulations, exploitation will flourish. The 
same is true with respect to trafficking in persons for 
sexual  exploitation,  which  disproportionately  affects 
women and girls. In order to reduce demand, policies 
allowing  the  purchase  of  sexual  services  must  be 
revised.  The  research  and  reports  from  INTERPOL 
and  other  agencies  is  clear:  there  is  a  clear  nexus 
between  prostitution  and  trafficking  in  persons  for 
sexual exploitation.
Last  but  not  least,  we  would  like  to  raise  the 
important  issue  of  our  obligation  to  deliver  on  our 
promises to help victims, which also requires enhanced 
cooperation among countries. But equally importantly, 
it  requires  properly  functioning  cooperation  between 
Governments and civil society. It is therefore essential 
that  an  environment 
that  enables  civil-society 
organizations  —  providing  civil  society  with  the 
funding  it  needs  —  be  ensured  both  nationally  and 
internationally.  In  this  context,  Sweden  would  like 
to  reaffirm  its  strong  support  for  the  United  Nations 
voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking in persons 
by pledging a gift of $100,000 to the fund in 2017.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Italy.
Mr.  Cardi  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union (see A/72/PV.24).
The  political  declaration  adopted  yesterday 
that 
(resolution  72/1)  summarizes 
the  challenges 
Member  States  and  other  national  and  international 
stakeholders  are  facing  today.  I  would  like  to  recall 
the  high-level  debate  that  was  held  on  19  June  2017 
in  the  General  Assembly  to  commemorate  Judge 
Giovanni  Falcone,  which  forged  a  broad  consensus 
on  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
its 
Protocols  Thereto,  including  the  Protocol  to  Prevent, 
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially 
Women  and  Children,  and  a  renewed  commitment  by 
Member  States  to  implementing  the  Convention  and 
its Protocols.
I will limit myself to underlining two aspects of the 
challenges that we face.
First,  we  need  to  focus  greater  attention  on  the 
victims, and, secondly, we need to adopt more effective 
countering measures at the national level.
With regard to the victims of the various forms of 
trafficking  in  persons,  we  agree  with  the  contents  of 
the Political Declaration adopted yesterday. We must be 
fully aware of the physical and psychological violence 
that  victims  suffer.  Accordingly,  we  must  guarantee 
assistance to victims and prevent them from becoming 
revictimized  through  indictments  for  the  unlawful 
conduct in which they were forced to engage. We must 
enforce their right to have justice served and help them 
overcome trauma and live in dignity.
Through  Law  No.  47,  of  7  April  2017,  the  Italian 
Parliament  addressed  a  growing  phenomenon  in  our 
country,  namely,  the  protection  of  unaccompanied 
minors. The new law harmonizes existing legislation, 
activates additional resources and identifies protocols 
and procedures tailored to the specific needs of minors 
without families on our territory.
It has become quite clear by now that in providing a 
response for victims of trafficking, national authorities 
must  work  in  a  consistent  and  coordinated  manner  to 
prevent  one  agency  from  taking  action  that  counters 
actions  from  other  agencies.  Equally  important  is 
coordination  at  the  level  of  United  Nations  bodies 
and international institutions. In that regard, we wish 
to acknowledge the efforts made and results achieved 
by 
the  Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against 
Trafficking in Persons and the United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime. All of the foregoing requires a clear 
political will and adequate resources. Italy has decided 
to contribute $1 million to the United Nations voluntary 
trust fund for victims of trafficking in persons.
17-30244
3/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
As  to  the  second  aspect,  I  would  like  to  make 
reference  to  resolution  71/209,  which  focuses  on 
crime prevention and criminal justice. Adopted by the 
General  Assembly  in  December  2016  and  facilitated 
by  our  country,  the  resolution  invites  all  States  to 
create  national  contact  points  and  central  authorities 
empowered  to  foster  and  render  more  effective  both 
investigative  cooperation  and  mutual  legal  assistance 
among different countries. Contact points and central 
authorities  can  also  play  a  fundamental  role  at  the 
domestic level by facilitating information exchange and 
collaboration among different national administrations 
that  are  called  upon  to  address  phenomena  related  to 
trafficking in persons.
Italy  is  committed  to  fighting  international  and 
domestic groups that engage in human trafficking. The 
growing number of investigations and convictions for 
such crimes shows that much can be done to this end. 
But it is precisely the actions of Italian prosecutors and 
judges  that  have  brought  the  limits  of  international 
cooperation  to  light  as  well  as  the  need  for  all 
countries to develop adequate legislation and effective 
transborder institutions.
We  are  deeply  convinced  of  the  importance  of 
these  national  coordination  bodies.  On  18  May,  we 
organized  a  Security  Council  Arria  Formula  meeting 
on  central  authorities  charged  with  promoting  full 
implementation of the relevant provisions contained in 
resolution 2322 (2016), adopted by the Security Council 
on 12 December 2016. In that forum, we presented work 
done  by  the  National  Anti-Mafia  and  Anti-Terrorism 
Directorate, the central authority in Italy, to coordinate 
investigations of transnational crimes in the context of 
organized crime and terrorism.
In  conclusion,  every  victim  of 
trafficking 
represents  a  world  that  we  must  protect,  and  every 
action  against  trafficking  in  persons  must  be  part  of 
a  coherent  international  project.  These  are  the  two 
sides of a hugely complex phenomenon that we must all 
address  together.  I  am  sure  that  the  high-level  debate 
under way and the initiatives that it inspires will make 
an important contribution to this end.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Nigeria.
Mrs.  Okeke  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  considers  the 
holding of this high-level meeting on the appraisal of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons to be very important in view of 
the  need  for  global  solidarity  and  cooperation  in  the 
fight against the menace of trafficking in persons.
Nigeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Friends  United  against 
Trafficking in Persons (see A/72/PV.24).
Nigeria is pleased to note that the global community 
is  now  developing  a  mechanism  that  will  ensure  the 
effective  and  full  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  and 
applauds the adoption of the political declaration on the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action (resolution 72/1).
The  root  causes  of  trafficking  are  complex  and 
multidimensional. Human trafficking has been linked 
to poverty and ignoble practices rooted in push-and-pull 
factors.  These  push-and-pull  factors  include,  but  are 
not  limited  to,  inadequate  employment  opportunities, 
poor living conditions, conflict, wars, famine, loss of 
livelihood, forced marriages, the dissolution of families 
and natural disasters. While these factors can also be 
linked to other vices within a society, they also act as 
indicators  pointing  the  way  towards  the  potential  for 
trafficking in persons.
Nigeria  has  not  been  exempt  from  this  scourge, 
having been both a destination country and a country 
of origin, where vulnerable persons, especially young 
women and boys, have been lured across the Sahara to 
other continents, Europe in particular. Our Government 
has  zero  tolerance  for  trafficking  in  human  beings, 
whether  young  or  old,  men  or  women,  which  is  why 
we have put in place strong institutional and legislative 
measure  to  eradicate  these  inhumane  practices  and 
ensure that those engaged in such illegal acts are made 
to face the full wrath of the law.
Nigeria  has 
trafficking 
long  criminalized 
in 
persons and has made serious strides in giving priority 
to  fighting  the  menace.  Among  these  measures  is  the 
establishment the National Agency for the Prohibition 
of  Trafficking  in  Persons  (NAPTIP),  which  is  a 
permanent mechanism created in 2003 to rescue, assist, 
support and care for victims of human trafficking and 
to arrest, prosecute and incarcerate perpetrators.
NAPTIP has remained relevant within our national 
policy  focus.  With  the  establishment  of  the  Agency, 
the  issue  of  human  trafficking  has  been  effectively 
mainstreamed 
into  broader  Government  policies 
and  programmes  related  to  economic  and  social 
4/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
development,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  good 
governance,  education,  and  natural-disaster  and  post-
conflict reconstruction. NAPTIP has also strengthened 
partnerships  among  the  Government,  civil  society, 
faith-based and religious organizations, the media and 
various rights groups. The essence of such partnerships 
is  facilitating  a  working  synergy  among  the  various 
stakeholders  so  as  to  effectively  craft  policies  and 
measures 
trafficking 
in persons.
that  permanently  eradicate 
Nigeria  has  continued  to  review  its  relevant  laws 
in  order  to  effectively  combat  this  crime.  In  2015, 
Nigeria scaled up the effectiveness of its domestic laws 
by  adopting  the  Trafficking  in  Persons  (Prohibition, 
Enforcement  and  Administration)  Act  of  2015,  which 
expanded the scope of crimes that fall under the rubric 
of  human  trafficking  to  include  the  exportation  of 
persons for prostitution, the procurement of persons for 
sexual  exploitation,  the  recruitment  of  persons  under 
18  years  for  prostitution  and  sexual  exploitation,  the 
recruitment of persons under 18 years for pornography, 
brothels  or  foreign  travel  that  promotes  prostitution 
and  sexual  exploitation.  The  Trafficking  in  Persons 
(Prohibition, Enforcement and Administration) Act of 
2015  has  broadened  the  scope  of  national  legislation 
against trafficking in such a way that Nigeria could be 
classified as one of the few countries in the world that 
has a legislative regime against trafficking in persons 
that is both potent and operative.
Nigeria  has  also  strengthened  its  international 
partnerships  and  collaborative  efforts  in  the  area 
of  fighting  trafficking  in  persons.  Our  efforts  at 
collaboration have led to the rescue of victims and the 
prosecution of human traffickers. For example, out of 
the 345 victims rescued by NAPTIP in the first quarter 
of this year, 288 rescues — some 83.5 per cent — were 
the result of international collaboration and partnership.
Nigeria calls on the global community to intensify 
support  for  the  operation  of  the  United  Nations 
voluntary trust fund for victims of human trafficking, 
so as to make it relevant in the fight against trafficking 
in persons. We call for greater funding and increased 
donations  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  objectives  of  the 
fund are fully realized and provide benefit to victims. 
In the same vein, Nigeria reaffirms its commitment to 
the efforts being made by the United Nations Office on 
Drugs  and  Crime  and  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination 
Group against Trafficking in Persons in their sustained 
operations to end trafficking. We therefore oppose any 
attempt to undermine the work of these bodies in their 
collective efforts to discharge their mandates.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Botswana.
Mr. Ntwaagae (Botswana): At the outset, I would 
like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election 
as the President of the General Assembly at its seventy-
second session. In this context, I wish to assure him of 
the  full  support  and  cooperation  of  my  delegation  in 
the  discharge  of  his  mandate.  I  also  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity to commend him for convening this high-
level meeting of the General Assembly on the appraisal 
of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons.
negotiations, 
the 
the  facilitators  of 
Similarly,  I  commend 
the 
intergovernmental 
Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  State  of  Qatar  and  Belgium, 
for  skilfully  steering  the  process  that  culminated  in 
General Assembly’s adoption yesterday of the political 
declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan 
of  Action  (resolution  72/1).  A  product  of  extensive 
consultations  with  Member  States,  observers  and 
civil  society,  the  Political  Declaration  reaffirms  our 
commitment  to  addressing  the  growing  menace  of 
human trafficking. Accordingly, I would like to pledge 
Botswana’s  full  support  for  the  Political  Declaration 
and reaffirm my country’s commitment to the United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime,  and  in  particular  its  Protocol  to  Prevent, 
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially 
Women and Children.
In addition to being a State party to the Convention 
and  its  Protocol,  Botswana  has  taken  stern  measures 
to ensure that human trafficking does not take root in 
our country. To address the crime of human trafficking, 
Botswana  passed  the  Anti-Human-Trafficking  Act 
of  2014  and  established 
the  Human  Trafficking 
(Prohibition) Committee. Furthermore, and in line with 
international  best  practices  for  dealing  with  issues  of 
human  trafficking,  the  Committee  has  developed  an 
anti-human-trafficking  national  action  plan  whose 
comprehensive  implementation  is  estimated  to  cost 
$11,118,500.
The Government of Botswana is also cognizant of 
the fact that, in order for the international community 
to adequately stem human trafficking, it is important to 
ensure that funding levels can adequately facilitate the 
implementation of programmes and planned activities. 
17-30244
5/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
In this respect, we commend the United Nations Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  other  agencies  for  their 
continued  support,  and  I  appeal  to  them  to  remain 
steadfast in their collaborative approaches to effectively 
addressing the crime of human trafficking.
At 
the  regional 
level,  Botswana  collaborates 
with  other  member  States  of  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community  in  a  bid  to  improve  data 
collection  and  analysis  of  trafficking  in  persons.  We 
believe that this will allow us to generate much-needed 
trend  analysis  and  similar  analytical  data  and  reports 
that could enhance the effectiveness of our anti-human-
trafficking initiatives within the region.
Our current national development plan — National 
Development  Plan  11  —  recognizes  anti-human-
trafficking  efforts  as  key  and  central  to  attaining  the 
goal of crime reduction under the chapter on governance, 
safety and security. Botswana also recognizes that the 
crime of human trafficking transcends all sectors of the 
economy.  Accordingly,  we  cannot  overemphasize  the 
importance of raising awareness and maintaining high-
impact  information  campaigns  that  will  ultimately 
work  to  disrupt  and  dismantle  criminal  networks  and 
supply chains of human trafficking.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  reaffirm  Botswana’s 
commitment  and  solidarity  with  the  international 
community 
the  debilitating  and 
dehumanizing crime of human trafficking in order to 
create a safer and more peaceful world, for the benefit 
of both present and future generations.
in  addressing 
Botswana also fully endorses the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development and its goals that advocate for 
peaceful and just societies across the globe.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Zambia.
Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to  express  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  high-level  meeting  to 
appraise the achievements, gaps and challenges in the 
implementation of the 2010 United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
Despite 
sustained  worldwide  anti-trafficking 
efforts,  human  trafficking  continues  to  pose  serious 
threats  to  sustainable  development,  with  millions  of 
victims  of  trafficking,  many  of  whom  are  children, 
being  denied  their  human  dignity  and  freedom.  Like 
other developing countries, Zambia has not been spared 
from  this  scourge,  as  victims  of  trafficking  continue 
to  be  exploited  through  domestic  servitude  in  urban 
areas  and  through  other  types  of  forced  labour  in  the 
agricultural, textile and construction sectors.
in  particular 
Zambia  remains  concerned 
that 
women  and  children  from  developing  countries, 
especially  sub-Saharan  Africa,  continue  to  be  the 
largest  category  of  victims  of  trafficking  in  persons. 
In  order  to  eliminate  all  forms  of  human  trafficking, 
the  Zambian  Government  enacted  the  Anti-Human 
Trafficking Act (No. 11) in 2008, the goal of which is 
to eradicate all forms of trafficking. Subsequently, the 
Act  has  been  amended  to  provide  for  the  prohibition, 
prevention  and  prosecution  of  human  trafficking,  as 
well as the protection of victims by ensuring physical 
safety,  material  support,  counselling,  rehabilitation, 
education and skills development.
In  addition,  the  Government  has  adopted  a  new 
national  policy  that  aims  to  eradicate  all  forms  of 
human  trafficking  in  the  country  through  combined 
measures to raise awareness of issues and address the 
root  causes  while  ensuring  that  victims  are  protected 
and  perpetrators  are  brought  to  justice.  Further,  in 
2012, the Government adopted a national plan of action 
to  combat  human  trafficking,  which  has  outlined  the 
minimum  requirements  for  victim  care,  including  the 
establishment  and  upgrading  of  existing  shelters  to 
bring them in line with international standards.
For  its  part,  Zambia  recognizes  the  central  role 
played  by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime in the global fight against trafficking in persons, 
especially in providing assistance to countries towards 
implementing  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and 
Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and 
Children.  We  also  recognize  the  importance  of  the 
prevention  of  trafficking  through  awareness-raising 
campaigns  and  measures  that  address  the  underlying 
factors  that  contribute  to  increasing  vulnerability  to 
trafficking,  as  well  as  the  protection  of  victims  and 
survivors,  and  the  prosecution  of  traffickers  through 
enhanced 
law-enforcement 
mechanisms.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration  (resolution 
72/1),  which  stresses,  inter  alia,  the  need  to  address 
the  underlying  factors  that  render  people  vulnerable 
to  trafficking,  including  poverty,  discrimination  and 
gender-based  violence,  unemployment,  humanitarian 
emergencies, social exclusion and marginalization.
capacity-building 
of 
6/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  working  with  all  stakeholders  to 
ensure  the  rights  of  every  victim  of  trafficking  to 
assistance,  protection  and  effective  support  services. 
In this regard, we welcome the strong emphasis of the 
political declaration on support for the United Nations 
voluntary  trust  fund  for  victims  of  trafficking  in 
persons, especially women and children, established in 
accordance with the 2010 Global Plan of Action.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  our 
commitment to working with partners to enhance the 
capacity of enforcement officers and develop standard 
operating procedures for law-enforcement agencies so 
that they are better able to screen and identify trafficking 
victims, especially among such vulnerable populations 
as refugees and migrants and unaccompanied minors.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran.
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like  to  commend  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Qatar  and  Belgium  for  facilitating  the  negotiations 
on  the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1).
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  committed  to 
preventing  and  fighting  any  manifestation  of  human 
trafficking and reiterates its determination to take all 
necessary measures to counter this horrible crime. To 
this  end,  the  Law  on  Combating  Human  Trafficking 
was adopted by my country’s Parliament in 2004 and 
has  been  revised  once  to  fill  the  gaps  and  strengthen 
the  domestic  legal  regime.  We  continue  our  efforts 
aimed  at  effective  enforcement  of  the  legislation, 
including 
law-
enforcement personnel.
judicial  and 
training  of 
through 
In  the  global  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons, 
it  is  essential  to  address  all  interrelated  root  causes 
that  make  people  vulnerable  to  trafficking.  Millions 
of people, women and girls, as well as young men and 
boys,  have  fallen  prey  to  exploitation  and  trafficking 
as a direct result of poverty and unemployment. At the 
same  time,  foreign  interventions  and  armed  conflict 
have  seriously  aggravated  the  conditions  that  make 
people  vulnerable  to  trafficking.  Interventionist  and 
destabilizing policies around the world, particularly in 
Africa and the Middle East, have made some countries 
Trafficking 
in  persons  follows 
breeding grounds for criminal networks that engage in 
trafficking in people in the most vulnerable situations.
the  principles 
of  supply  and  demand.  The  supply  side  cannot  be 
stopped,  as  long  as  unrestrained  demand  for  forced 
labour,  prostitution  and  trafficked  organs  exists.  The 
complex  synergy  between  trafficking  in  persons  and 
certain  crimes  perpetrated  by  criminal  organizations, 
such as drug trafficking and migrant smuggling, calls 
international  cooperation, 
for  scaled-up 
including 
through  better 
information-sharing  and  provision 
of  capacity-building  and 
to 
developing  countries.  Meanwhile,  the  importance  of 
education and raising awareness on human trafficking 
in countries of origin, transit and destination cannot be 
overemphasized. End users of the services provided by 
trafficked persons are as much in need of educating as 
those at risk of being trafficked.
technical  assistance 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underscore  the 
importance of the availability of impartial and reliable 
data  on  trafficking  in  persons  at  different  levels. 
Member  States  whose  destructive 
foreign-policy 
options  have  left  millions  of  people  at  risk  of  being 
exploited  and  trafficked  have  no  moral  authority  to 
produce politicized reports that disregard the fact that 
the  responsibility  for  the  problem  rests  with  them, 
and  we  question  their  competency  and  integrity. 
Meanwhile,  we  acknowledge  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC)  in 
producing the biennial Global Report on Trafficking in 
Persons  as  a  follow-up  to  the  United  Nations  Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We 
also reaffirm UNODC’s central role in promoting the 
partnership  pillar  in  support  of  the  other  pillars  of 
the  Plan  of  Action,  which  are  prevention,  protection 
and prosecution.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the United States.
Ms. Johnstone (United States of America): It is a 
privilege  to  be  here  today  as  we  assess  our  progress 
in preventing and combating human trafficking. In the 
17 years since the opening for signature of the historic 
Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and  Children,  and  the 
seven  years  since  the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons, 
our collective understanding of the realities of human 
17-30244
7/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
trafficking and its impact on victims and communities 
has grown significantly.
However, our enforcement of anti-trafficking laws, 
and  the  number  of  victims  identified  and  assisted, 
remains  appallingly  low,  especially  compared  to  the 
global  estimates  of  the  tens  of  millions  of  victims  of 
human trafficking. As traffickers’ methods continually 
evolve  and  become  more  sophisticated,  fuelled  by 
impunity  and  billions  in  illicit  profits,  we  must 
expand  our  collective  response  to  their  crimes.  The 
United  States  shares  that  challenge  with  all  Member 
States,  and  we  fully  acknowledge  that  it  takes  a 
holistic Government response, which must include the 
investment  of  significant  resources  and  collaboration 
with  non-governmental  organizations, 
the  private 
sector,  the  public  and,  importantly,  with  survivors  of 
the crime.
The  United  States  takes  a  victim-centred  and 
trauma-informed  approach  to  assisting  survivors  of 
trafficking. Federally funded programmes are available 
to survivors regardless of their immigration status. We 
have  increased  our  overall  funding  for  services  and 
consequently the number of survivors who are assisted. 
During  fiscal  year  2016,  the  Department  of  Justice 
supported  providers  offering  comprehensive  and 
specialized  victim  services  across  the  United  States 
with funds totalling $19.7 million. The Department of 
Health and Human Services also provided $12.3 million 
for a range of services to foreign and domestic victims, 
both adults and children.
On  the  enforcement  side,  also  during  fiscal  year 
2016,  federal  prosecutors  secured  439  convictions 
of  human  traffickers  for  sex-  and  labour-trafficking 
offences, an almost 50 per cent increase from the previous 
year. Multiple agencies across the federal Government, 
incorporating  survivor  input,  are  providing  training 
to relevant stakeholders at the federal, state, local and 
tribal  levels  to  encourage  more  consistent  application 
of  a  victim-centred  and  trauma-informed  approach  in 
all phases of victim identification, assistance, recovery 
and participation in the criminal justice process.
I am thrilled to report that, in December 2015, our 
President  appointed  the  first  United  States  Advisory 
Council  on  Human  Trafficking  to  advise  and  make 
recommendations  on  federal  anti-trafficking  policies. 
The  Council  is  composed  of  11  human  trafficking 
survivors, and it released its first report last October. 
The  report  includes  many  recommendations,  such 
as  for  United  States-funded  service  providers  to 
include standardized questions for screening potential 
survivors, establishing a federal housing preference for 
survivors and incorporating survivor input into public-
awareness efforts.
This month the United States Department of State 
announced  a  groundbreaking  $25  million  award  to 
the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery, an initiative 
that  seeks  to  build  country  and  industry  partnerships 
aimed at reducing the prevalence of modern slavery in 
specific countries and regions around the world, as well 
as a public knowledge hub where information and good 
practices can be shared. It aims to raise commitments 
of  $1.5  billion  from  other  donors.  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  United  Kingdom  for  Prime  Minister  May’s 
announcement  last  week  of  her  country’s  $20  million 
matching investment in the Fund.
This  year  and  the  next,  the  State  Department 
and 
the  United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  will  commit  more  than  $180  million 
to  results-driven  anti-trafficking  foreign  assistance. 
Recognizing the devastating impact of sex and labour 
trafficking  on  children,  the  Department  of  State  has 
also  established  multi-year,  bilateral  child-protection 
compact partnerships with the Governments of Ghana, 
the Philippines and Peru to build effective systems of 
justice, prevention and child protection. Those are only 
a snapshot of the range of programmes the United States 
has to combat trafficking in persons domestically and 
abroad. In the past few years, we have also expanded 
our  engagement  with  the  business  sector  to  prevent 
human  trafficking  in  Government  procurement  and 
global supply chains.
The United States Government remains committed 
to helping survivors of trafficking, putting traffickers in 
prison and partnering with a broad range of stakeholders 
and  Governments  to  prevent  human  trafficking  from 
occurring.  We  look  forward  to  the  day  when  human 
traffickers  can  no  longer  operate  with  impunity  and 
there are no more victims.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Australia.
Ms. Bird (Australia): The one key message that I 
want to convey today is the importance of partnership 
and regional collaboration in combating trafficking in 
persons. No one can tackle the issue alone. Last week’s 
launch of the Global Estimates of Modern Slavery and 
Child Labour, hosted by Alliance 8.7, was a testament 
8/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
to  the  progress  we  can  make  when  we  work  together. 
The  estimates  were  produced  collaboratively  by  the 
International  Labour  Organization,  the  International 
Organization  for  Migration,  UNICEF  and  the  Walk 
Free  Foundation,  with 
input  from  other  United 
Nations agencies.
The  alarming  figures  telling  us  that  more  than 
40 million people — 70 per cent of them women — were 
victims of modern slavery in 2016 send a clear message 
that  we  will  not  be  in  a  position  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals unless we take urgent 
action. Australia welcomes collective efforts to improve 
international  cooperation  to  address  migration  and 
displacement. Whenever people are on the move, they 
are vulnerable to exploitation. The global compacts on 
refugees  and  migration  will  provide  an  opportunity 
to  build  international  consensus  for  practical  action. 
We  also  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  call  for  the 
global  compacts  to  provide  solutions  that  protect  the 
human rights of all.
Regional action is critical. More than 50 per cent 
of  the  people  of  the  world  who  are  subject  to  forced 
labour are in the Indo-Pacific region. Australia works 
closely  with  its  neighbours  in  South-East  Asia  to 
combat trafficking and forced labour, and we fund the 
largest single anti-trafficking investment in the region. 
With Indonesia, Australia co-chairs the Bali Process on 
People Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and Related 
Transnational  Crime.  The  Bali  Process  works  to 
improve  practical  cooperation  for  addressing  regional 
challenges.  We  recently  launched  the  Bali  Process 
Business Forum, a regional public-private partnership 
for tackling trafficking and forced labour. Domestically, 
Australia  is  establishing  a  new  reporting  requirement 
that  will  require  large  businesses  to  publish  annual 
statements outlining their actions aimed at addressing 
modern slavery in supply chains.
We  applaud 
initiatives  aimed  at  prevention, 
protection  and  survivor  assistance,  which  is  why 
Australia  is  a  donor  to  the  United  Nations  Voluntary 
Trust  Fund  for  Victims  of  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children,  and  the  United 
Nations  Voluntary  Trust  Fund  on  Contemporary 
Forms of Slavery. However, I cannot conclude without 
voicing deep concern for the lack of accountability and 
disregard for safety demonstrated by human traffickers 
and  people  smugglers.  They  continue 
to  exploit 
opportunities  to  mislead  vulnerable  people  and  we 
must do more to hold them to account.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Cuba.
by 
promoting 
Only 
Mr.  Reyes  Rodríguez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Seven years after the General Assembly’s adoption of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons, that crime remains one of the 
major  challenges  facing  the  international  community 
and a true insult to the dignity of people.
genuine 
international 
cooperation  under  strict  observance  of  international 
law and the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations,  and  based  on  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and  its  relevant  Protocol,  will  we  be  able  to  agree  on 
appropriate ways to combat trafficking in persons. The 
practice of producing unilateral assessment reports on 
other States is inadmissible and should be ended.
This  problem  is  very  rare  in  Cuba.  In  February, 
we approved a national action plan for the period from 
2017 to 2020 for preventing and combating trafficking 
in  persons  and  protecting  its  victims  that  coordinates 
State  and  civil-society  organizations’  efforts 
to 
effectively  implement  our  zero-tolerance  policy  for 
trafficking in persons. In April, we received a visit from 
Ms.  Maria  Grazia  Giammarinaro,  the  Human  Rights 
Council’s Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, 
especially women and children, enabling her to see at 
first hand the realities of the issue in our country.
We know that much remains to be done. However, 
Cuba’s experience shows that it is possible to achieve 
results  in  the  fight  against  trafficking  even  with  few 
resources, under a tight blockade and in the face of this 
crime’s  growing  complexity  and  internationalization. 
The  social  policies  that  we  have  implemented  over 
almost  60  years  of  revolution,  along  with  prevention 
efforts and participation in them by the whole of society, 
will continue to be keys to success.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Morocco.
Mr.  Chekkori  (Morocco)  (spoke 
in  French): 
Today’s  meeting  is  taking  place  in  an  era  marked  by 
the  massive  displacement  of  populations,  particularly 
refugees fleeing the horrors of war and natural disasters 
and migrants aspiring to a better future. As a result of 
their  vulnerability,  that  population  is  exposed  to  the 
risks of trafficking.
17-30244
9/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
Owing  to  Morocco’s  geographical  location  and 
the cross-border nature of this kind of crime, we have 
not  been  spared  this  problem,  particularly  since  our 
situation as a country of origin, transit and destination 
compels  us  to  deploy  increasing  resources  to  protect 
potential  victims  of  trafficking.  We  firmly  believe 
that  today’s  meeting  and  the  adoption  of  the  political 
declaration on the implementation of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
(resolution 72/1) will help to galvanize the international 
community’s efforts to prevent and combat all forms of 
trafficking in persons.
Among  the  three  elements  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco’s new migration policy, launched in September 
2013,  combating  trafficking  is  one  of  my  country’s 
priorities for protecting and promoting human rights and 
fighting  organized  crime.  Through  its  national  policy 
on migration and asylum, Morocco is positioning itself 
as a leading regional player in the fight against human 
trafficking  and  migrant  smuggling.  In  its  first  phase, 
our policy has helped some 25,000 migrants regularize 
their status. The second phase will build on that success 
and what has already been achieved, and will help to 
facilitate the migrants’ integration of migrants through 
a  comprehensive  and  humane  approach  aimed  at 
protecting migrants from human-trafficking networks 
and  guaranteeing  the  rights  of  refugees  and  migrants 
on  Moroccan  soil.  Morocco  has  taken  a  series  of 
measures  at  the  national  level  by  upgrading  its  legal 
and  institutional  framework  relating  to  immigration, 
asylum and trafficking in human beings. Our adoption 
in 2016 of an anti-trafficking law is further proof of the 
Kingdom’s active commitment.
Morocco  has  also  demonstrated  its  commitment 
in  the  international  arena  by  subscribing  to  the  main 
human rights conventions on preventing and combating 
trafficking in persons and the smuggling of migrants, 
including  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime,  and,  in  April  2011, 
by  ratifying  the  Convention’s  Additional  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially Women and Children. We have also presented 
our  semi-annual  plan  of  action  for  implementing  the 
Global Programmes against Trafficking in Persons and 
Smuggling  of  Migrants  at  the  twenty-sixth  session  of 
the  Commission  on  Crime  Prevention  and  Criminal 
Justice.  Morocco  is  one  of  13  countries  around  the 
world strategically selected to develop and implement 
national  action  against  the  trafficking  and  smuggling 
of migrants.
Extreme poverty, inequality, conflict, political and 
economic instability, human rights violations and a lack 
of education and opportunities create vulnerabilities that 
traffickers never fail to exploit. No country can solve 
the problem of trafficking alone. The solution does not 
lie in an exclusively security-based approach, but rather 
requires a comprehensive, multisectoral approach and 
close  cooperation  with  countries  of  origin,  transit 
and  destination  in  tackling  the  root  causes  that  lead 
them  to  become  victims  of  trafficking  networks.  The 
preventive aspect of trafficking is intrinsically linked 
to  the  commitment  of  all  to  sustainable  development, 
and in that regard, Morocco reiterates its full support 
for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
to  highlight 
the 
possibilities offered by the International Conference on 
Migration  in  2018  and  the  contribution  of  the  Global 
Forum on Migration and Development, which Morocco 
co-chairs with Germany, and which provide appropriate 
opportunities  to  contribute  to  the  implementation 
of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons.  We  welcome  the  content  of  the  Political 
Declaration on the implementation of the Global Plan 
of  Action  (resolution  72/1),  to  which  my  country  will 
actively contribute.
this  opportunity 
We 
take 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Brazil.
Mr. Duque Estrada Meyer (Brazil): The scourge 
of human trafficking is one of the most terrible crimes 
known  to  humankind  and  one  of  the  most  lucrative 
forms of transnational crime, along with trafficking in 
drugs and arms. It mainly affects vulnerable people such 
as refugees, migrants and internally displaced persons, 
especially  women  and  girls,  and  those  in  situations 
of  conflicts  and  natural  disasters.  Trafficked  people 
are  treated  as  objects  and  often  subjected  to  sexual 
exploitation, domestic services or forced marriage.
As  members  of  the  international  community,  we 
must strengthen our efforts to tackle this heinous crime 
and bring perpetrators to justice. In that regard, Brazil 
welcomes this opportunity to conduct a fresh appraisal 
of  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We 
believe that a periodic review of the progress that has 
been  made  is  essential  to  improving  the  coordination 
of our efforts in this area and bringing to our attention 
10/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
new  developments  and  challenges  that  have  arisen  in 
the past few years.
This  is  also  an  occasion  for  us  all  to  renew  our 
political  commitment  to  eradicating  trafficking  in 
persons,  while  recognizing  the  multifaceted  nature 
of  the  problem.  The  political  declaration  on  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1),  which  we  adopted  yesterday,  reaffirms  the 
commitments of Member States in relation to the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  recognizing 
its  integrated  and  indivisible  nature,  and  thereby 
confirming the synergy between our efforts to promote 
development,  protect  human  rights  and  fight  crime, 
particularly trafficking in persons.
Brazil  is  of  the  view  that  unduly  restrictive 
immigration  policies  can  compound  the  effects  of 
human  trafficking.  Adequate  and  effective  strategies 
for dealing with trafficking in persons must ensure that 
fundamental rights are respected. The discussions on a 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration 
could  therefore  make  an  enormous  contribution  to 
our joint efforts to eliminate this heinous crime while 
safeguarding the rights of those who legitimately seek 
better living standards in other countries.
Brazil  believes  that  a  consistent  global  network 
for protecting and assisting victims would discourage 
demand  and  prevent  re-victimization.  Such  assistance 
should be gender- and age-sensitive and take into account 
the special needs of vulnerable groups. In that regard, 
I would like to point out that last year Brazil adopted a 
new national law on the prevention and suppression of 
domestic  and  international  trafficking  in  persons  and 
measures  designed  to  help  protect  and  assist  victims. 
It  defines  trafficking  in  persons  according  to  the 
parameters of the United Nations Protocol to Prevent, 
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially 
Women  and  Children,  establishes  severe  penalties 
for  perpetrators  and  decrees  that  victims  should  have 
legal, social, labour and health support as well as the 
possibility of being granted residence permits, whether 
or not they are cooperating with State criminal justice 
authorities. We are also working on our third national 
plan to combat trafficking in persons, with the active 
involvement of civil society.
Brazil  attaches  great  importance  to  the  efforts 
to  enhance  international  cooperation  on  the  issue  of 
human trafficking undertaken by all Member States, as 
well  as  by  the  Secretary-General,  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  INTERPOL  and  other 
strategic  partners.  We  also  commend  the  work  of  the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in  Persons  and  call  for  Member  States’  enhanced 
engagement in its activities.
In conclusion, Brazil would like to recall that the 
specific characteristics of trafficking in persons make 
it an issue that requires a multidisciplinary, integrated 
strategy. Within the United Nations system, therefore, 
we should strive for greater coordination by fostering 
coherence in the efforts of the various entities involved 
and  by  ensuring  that  we  keep  the  best  interests  and 
the  dignity  of  victims  of  trafficking  at  the  centre  of 
our policies.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Denmark.
Mr.  Petersen  (Denmark):  Denmark  fully  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  delivered  yesterday  by  the 
observer of the European Union (see A/72/PV.24), but 
since the topic of this high-level meeting is an extremely 
important one, I am pleased to take this opportunity to 
make a few comments in my national capacity.
The Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking 
in  Persons  is  a  significant  instrument  in  the  global 
fight  against  trafficking  in  persons.  However,  that 
will  be  true  only  as  long  as  we  collectively  secure 
its  implementation,  which  is  why  we  are  here  today 
to  assess  the  achievements  and  identify  the  gaps  and 
challenges  in  this  fight.  Trafficking  in  persons  is  an 
offence to human dignity and a violation of fundamental 
freedoms  and  human  rights  that  knows  no  national 
borders,  and  combating  it  therefore  requires  a  global 
effort. Together we must stop these cynical traffickers 
who exploit people in extremely vulnerable situations 
and help and protect those who end up in their hands.
Denmark  is  committed  to  doing  its  part.  As  a 
candidate for the United Nations Human Rights Council 
for  the  period  from  2019  to  2021,  we  will  continue 
to  engage  in  normative  work  to  advance  efforts  to 
combat trafficking. Denmark was a sponsor of Security 
Council  resolution  2331  (2016),  on  trafficking  in 
persons in conflict situations, and during the General 
Assembly  high-level  week  last  week  we  endorsed  the 
United Kingdom-led call to action to end forced labour, 
modern  slavery  and  human  trafficking.  Denmark’s 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  together  with  partners 
from other Member States, hosted a side event that shed 
17-30244
11/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
light on trafficking and other forms of modern slavery. 
We must raise awareness about the issue and make sure 
that no one can ever say again that they did not know 
that modern slavery existed.
Human  trafficking  now  constitutes  an  increasing 
percentage  of  organized  crime  worldwide,  which 
means  that  our  efforts  to  combat  it  must  be  flexible, 
able to adapt to new trends in order to help victims and 
prosecute traffickers effectively. That is why Denmark 
recently  decided  to  further  strengthen  its  national 
action  plan  on  combating  human  trafficking  with  an 
additional  $1.5  million  in  funds.  We  must  and  will 
continue to step up our game at the national as well as 
the international level.
The  United  Nations  Voluntary  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children, plays an important role in our collective 
efforts,  supporting  direct  specialized  assistance  to 
the  victims  of  all  forms  of  human  trafficking  all 
over  the  world.  I  am  therefore  pleased  to  announce  a 
Danish  contribution  of  $160,000  to  the  Trust  Fund. 
We  are  proud  to  support  this  important  effort  to  help 
innocent victims.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Slovenia.
Mr.  Čurin  (Slovenia):  Slovenia  welcomes  this 
high-level meeting and once again expresses its support 
for  the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  adopted  yesterday  (resolution 
72/1).
Slovenia aligns itself with the statements delivered 
yesterday  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  by 
the representative of Panama on behalf of the Human 
Security  Network  (see  A/72/PV.24).  Owing  to  time 
constraints,  I  will  deliver  a  shortened  version  of  my 
statement, which will be available in full on PaperSmart.
More than a decade ago, trafficking in persons was 
seen as just one of the forms taken by international crime, 
but today it is recognized as a multifaceted problem and 
human rights issue in its own right, constantly evolving, 
changing and reaching increasingly severe dimensions. 
Trafficking  in  persons  is  based  on  the  exploitation  of 
other human beings. It affects all parts of society and 
is on its way to becoming a structural element in some 
economies, but in particular it violates the fundamental 
rights, freedoms and dignity of its victims.
The fact is that trafficking in persons and related 
modern  forms  of  slavery  are  on  the  increase.  The 
underlying reasons include exploitive tendencies, a loss 
of values in our consumer societies, global poverty and 
the increasing demand for cheap labour. Furthermore, 
trafficking in persons is linked to other areas of social 
life, such as current migration trends, and in that regard 
it  is  about  exploiting  the  vulnerability  of  people  who 
are on the move. At the same time, it has created new 
challenges  through  its  relationship  to  increasingly 
urgent security issues and economic threats.
For  all  those  reasons,  human  trafficking  is  a 
multidimensional issue and in that context, the Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons 
represents  a  firm  foundation  for  comprehensive 
measures  at  the  national  level.  Slovenia  therefore 
supports  global  initiatives  that  should  be  reflected  in 
measures taken at the national level in all areas of the 
fight against trafficking in persons. In 2002, Slovenia 
appointed  a  national  anti-trafficking  coordinator, 
assisted  by  an  inter-ministerial  working  group,  who 
plays a key role in the preparation and implementation 
of two-year action plans. The activities in those action 
plans address various preventive measures and funding 
for  non-governmental  organizations 
in 
programmes for assisting victims.
involved 
taking 
In  most  cases,  the  prosecution  of  crimes  related 
to  trafficking  in  persons  results  in  the  conviction  of 
the  offenders,  and  that  has  been  established  practice 
in  Slovenia  for  the  past  eight  years.  The  national 
referral  mechanism  defines  the  proactive  cooperation 
required  between  non-governmental  organizations 
and law-enforcement authorities as well as with other 
relevant  organizations, 
into  consideration 
the  victims’  best  interests.  Slovenia  played  a  leading 
role  in  implementing  two  European  projects  aimed  at 
combating  trafficking  in  persons  more  effectively  in 
the  territory  of  the  Western  Balkans  and  conducting 
training for law-enforcement authorities in the region.
Also,  at  Slovenia’s  initiative  an  informal  network 
of  national  anti-trafficking  coordinators  in  South-
Eastern Europe was set up in 2010. The network, with 
the  support  of  the  International  Centre  for  Migration 
Policy  Development,  is  still  active  and  meets  twice 
a year.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  once 
more how crucial it is to fully understand the negative 
effects  of  human  trafficking  and  the  consequences  of 
12/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
the  phenomenon  for  its  victims,  who  suffer  day  after 
day,  many  of  whom  become  victims  more  than  once. 
Awareness  of  these  things  first  needs  to  grow  in  the 
mind of each of us. Only then will we be able to use 
the existing mechanisms and take effective action as a 
society and as institutions.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Myanmar.
Mr.  Suan  (Myanmar):  We  welcome  the  adoption 
of  the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1).
The menace of trafficking in persons — modern-
day  slavery  —  is  increasingly  threatening  millions 
of  people  around  the  world.  It  is  alarming  to  note 
that  the  recent  Global  Report  on  Trafficking  in 
Persons  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime  (UNODC)  highlighted  a  significant  increase 
in 
trafficked  for  forced 
labour  —  approximately  four  in  10  victims  detected 
were 
to 
estimates from the International Labour Organization, 
more than 20 million labourers are being exploited in 
economic activities.
that  purpose.  According 
the  number  of  victims 
trafficked  for 
Therefore we fully share the concern about this new 
phenomenon,  which  is  a  revival  of  slavery.  It  cannot 
be  resolved  by  actions  of  Governments  alone.  We 
need to engage constructively with the private sector. 
In  this  regard,  I  thank  the  Governments  of  Australia 
and Indonesia for their initiative in organizing the Bali 
Process Government and Business Forum on 25 August 
in Perth, Australia.
Myanmar has been fighting the issue of trafficking 
in  persons  as  a  national  cause  for  20  years,  that  is, 
since  1997.  As  a  source  country  of  many  trafficked 
victims,  Myanmar  has  stepped  up  its  efforts  to  fight 
trafficking in persons. We are focusing our actions in 
the areas of prevention, protection and prosecution. The 
number of personnel dedicated to our anti-trafficking 
law-enforcement units has been increased. Awareness-
raising  activities  have  been  conducted  across 
the country.
The Anti-Trafficking in Persons Law was enacted 
in Myanmar in 2005. Since then, we have put in place 
national  plans  of  action  to  combat  trafficking  in 
persons. We have reviewed our 2012-2016 National Plan 
of Action to Combat Human Trafficking and found five 
distinct  forms  of  human  trafficking,  namely,  forced 
marriage, forced labour, prostitution, child trafficking 
and  debt  bondage.  A  total  of  237  forced-labour  cases 
outside  the  country  were  detected  in  the  period  from 
2006  to  2017.  The  areas  of  activity  where  Myanmar 
migrant  workers  suffer  most  from  human  trafficking 
and  exploitation  are  fisheries,  the  seafood  industry, 
agriculture, prostitution and domestic work.
the 
lack  of 
Poverty,  overpopulation  and 
job 
opportunities  in  many  less-developed  countries  are 
indeed  a  push  factor.  At  the  same  time,  there  are 
industries hunting for cheap and unregulated labourers, 
which  is  obviously  a  demand,  or  pull,  factor.  In  the 
absence of inclusive and effective bilateral or regional 
mechanisms  to  address  the  issue,  that  vacuum  is 
conveniently exploited by traffickers. The Government 
of  Myanmar  is  therefore  closely  cooperating  with  the 
countries in its region, particularly with the countries 
that receive a large number of Myanmar migrant workers, 
by means of bilateral agreements and establishing other 
appropriate mechanisms for regularizing the status of 
these workers.
In January 2017, Myanmar ratified the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  Convention  against 
Trafficking 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and 
Children.  We  are  working  closely  not  only  with 
countries  in  the  region  but  also  with  United  Nations 
agencies,  particularly  UNODC,  in  the  fight  against 
trafficking in persons.
We  also  share  the  concern  that  people  fleeing 
across  the  border  to  Bangladesh  could  fall  into  the 
hands  of  traffickers.  The  terrorist  attacks  by  the  so-
called Arankan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) on 
25 August 2017 in northern Rakhine state have caused 
the loss of lives and property and the displacement of 
people. Many have fled across the border to Bangladesh. 
There  are  several  reasons  for  that  exodus.  Prominent 
among them is the fear factor. Following the terrorist 
attacks  and  the  resultant  security  operations,  most  of 
the women and children were forced to flee. The men 
were conscripted to join the ARSA in the fight against 
the  security  forces.  Many  villagers  were  intimidated 
into  fleeing  to  the  Bangladeshi  side  of  the  border  so 
that  they  could  attract  international  attention.  The 
scorched-earth  policy  employed  by  the  terrorists  is 
another factor.
Myanmar will do its utmost to prevent people from 
becoming victims of traffickers. We all have to be alert 
17-30244
13/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
and  prevent  any  trafficker  or  criminal  network  from 
exploiting  this  situation.  Myanmar  is  ready  to  work 
with all countries to eliminate modern-day slavery.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Austria.
Mr. Kickert (Austria): The fight against trafficking 
in persons requires greater resolve from us than ever. 
It  is  a  serious  crime  and  a  gross  violation  of  human 
rights that continues to affect all regions of the world. 
The testimony of survivors of trafficking, such as the 
statement  by  Ms.  Grizelda  Grootboom  yesterday  (see 
A/72/PV.24), is a painful wake-up call for us to realize 
that we continue to fail to protect the most vulnerable. 
We, the community of States, have to try harder for the 
sake of those who are still suffering. We have to take 
care  of  those  who  are  at  risk,  vulnerable  or  exposed 
to arbitrary conditions. We have to stop impunity and 
bring perpetrators to justice.
Austria  is  both  a  transit  and  destination  country 
for  human  trafficking.  Human  trafficking  in  Austria 
predominantly  involves  cases  of  sexual  exploitation 
but  also  labour  exploitation  and  forced  begging.  A 
task force on combating human trafficking comprising 
both  Government  entities  and  non-governmental 
organizations  elaborates  national  action  plans  with 
concrete  measures  on  how  best  to  tackle  trafficking 
comprehensively  and  monitors  the  implementation  of 
those plans.
Recently,  Austria  has  been  affected  by  large 
mixed  migration  movements.  Against  that  backdrop, 
we are paying particular attention to the interlinkages 
between  migration  movements  and  trafficking  in 
persons.  We  have  intensified  measures  to  identify 
victims  or  those  at  risk  of  being  trafficked  in  order 
to  prevent  trafficking,  assist  victims  and  work  more 
effectively  to  prosecute  perpetrators.  Furthermore, 
Austria is currently supporting projects of regional and 
international organizations dedicated to identifying and 
assisting victims of trafficking along migration routes. 
In that context, we welcome the special attention that 
has  been  given  to  the  issue  of  trafficking  in  persons 
in  the  preparation  process  for  the  global  compact  for 
migration,  in  particular  in  the  framework  of  the  fifth 
informal thematic session that took place in Vienna just 
three weeks ago.
The  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and 
the  United  Nations 
supplementing 
Trafficking 
Children, 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime, 
remains the cornerstone of global action against human 
trafficking,  with 
its  almost-universal  ratification. 
Through  its  comprehensive  approach  it  defines  and 
enables effective cooperation among States to prevent 
and  combat  trafficking  and  to  protect  and  assist 
victims.  With  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons, the issue has been kept high on 
the international agenda. It has also encouraged States 
to  ratify  and  effectively  implement  the  provisions  of 
the Protocol.
trust  fund  for  victims  of 
We  particularly  commend  the  United  Nations 
voluntary 
trafficking, 
established  through  the  Global  Plan  of  Action,  for  its 
successful  work.  It  is  an  important  instrument  that 
merits  our  continuous  and  strengthened  support.  The 
fund has facilitated direct assistance to approximately 
2,500 victims every year, but that is but a fraction of 
the total number of victims. Many projects are waiting 
for the necessary funds. Austria has contributed to the 
fund throughout the past years and will continue to do 
so this year, and the next and the ones to follow.
Austria  advocates  for  a  victim-centred  approach, 
with a focus on preventing trafficking in persons and 
protecting  victims  of  trafficking  or  of  other  serious 
forms  of  exploitation.  In  many  countries  there  is  still 
a  lack  of  awareness  that  trafficked  persons  are  not 
offenders. Unless they are identified and recognized as 
victims of crime, they will be doubly punished.
Another  important  outcome  of  the  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  has  been 
the biennial Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, 
prepared  by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs 
and  Crime  (UNODC).  Data  collection  and  analysis 
is  indispensable  to  identify  necessary  and  effective 
measures  to  counter  trafficking  in  persons.  In  this 
context, Austria would like to take this opportunity to 
express its support for the activities of UNODC in the 
fight  against  trafficking  in  persons  and  in  assistinag 
Member States. In particular, UNODC assists Member 
States in translating political will into concrete action. 
It  also  coordinates  multilateral  efforts  through  the 
Inter-Agency Coordination Group.
We  very  much  welcome  the  presence  of  so  many 
civil-society participants among us. The expertise and 
practical  support  of  non-governmental  organizations 
are vital, especially in the context of victim protection 
and measures to prevent human trafficking. Moreover, 
14/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
national  human  rights  institutions,  academia,  the 
private sector and the media can and do play a central 
role  in  the  framework  of  the  coordinated  efforts  to 
combat human trafficking.
Trafficking  in  persons  has,  if  anything,  become 
more complex over the years. We cannot disregard the 
broader  context  in  which  human  trafficking  evolves 
and that continues to nurture this inhumane business. 
With  the  ongoing  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  we  will  create  an  environment 
more  conducive  to  helping  address  the  root  causes  of 
trafficking in persons.
While, at this meeting we are taking stock of the 
progress  achieved  in  the  past  years,  a  lot  of  pressing 
work and serious challenges lie ahead. Let us be guided 
by putting into action the word and spirit of the political 
declaration on the implementation of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
that we adopted. Today is the time to act, not tomorrow.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Portugal.
Mr. Albano (Portugal): Portugal is fully committed 
to  the  prevention  of  and  fight  against  trafficking 
in persons.
We  welcome  the  political  declaration  on  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1) that the Assembly adopted. Portugal is proud to 
have co-facilitated, together with Cabo Verde, the very 
first Global Action Plan, in 2010. All of our actions are 
in line with the most relevant international human rights 
instruments  and  development  frameworks,  including 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Since  2012,  Portugal  has  been  part  of  the  Blue 
Heart Campaign against Human Trafficking, aimed at 
raising global awareness, and since then we proudly use 
the Blue Heart in all national campaigns and actions. In 
spite of all the anti-trafficking initiatives developed in 
Portugal over the last decade, much more remains to be 
done in the face of such a complex, multidimensional 
and constantly changing phenomenon.
Portugal is currently starting to prepare its fourth 
national action plan, which will consolidate a victim- 
and  gender-based  approach  already  contained 
in 
our  first  such  plan.  Portugal  provides  support  to  all 
victims  of  trafficking  in  persons,  both  national  and 
foreign. Victims have the right to subsistence, access to 
appropriate and urgent medical treatment, psychological 
assistance,  protection,  translation  and  interpretation 
services and free legal advice under the stipulations of 
the law. Portugal has three shelters that provide support 
to women and men identified as victims of trafficking, 
regardless of their nationality, age, religion, ethnicity, 
sexual  orientation,  disability,  marital  status,  political 
orientation, socioeconomic aspects or any other status. 
That  support  is  also  extended  to  minor  children  of 
the victims.
The  implementation  of  the  National  Trafficking 
Victims Support and Protection Network was a decisive 
factor  in  improving  consolidation  and  coordination 
among  Government  institutions  such  as  the  police 
forces  and  the  justice  system,  among  others,  and 
civil  society  at  the  level  of  intervention  with  victims 
of  trafficking.  That  network  provides  a  mechanism 
for  cooperation  and 
information-sharing  among 
stakeholders for purposes of the prevention, protection 
and reintegration of victims of human trafficking. That 
is particularly relevant in regard to children, as they are 
disproportionately vulnerable to trafficking in persons.
The  creation  in  2008  of  the  Observatory  on 
Trafficking  in  Human  Beings  has  allowed  Portugal 
to  reinforce  its  national  referral  mechanisms  and  to 
consolidate  data-collection  systems  and  the  exchange 
of information for the development of evidence-based 
policies. We need to know how to intervene.
States 
hold 
the 
All  Member 
collective 
responsibility  to  combat  this  heinous  crime.  To  do 
so,  we  need  to  cooperate  and  implement  all  the  four 
“P’s” — prevention, protection, prosecution and, most 
importantly,  partnerships,  as  they  will  allow  us  to  be 
one step ahead of the criminal networks and traffickers 
responsible for this global scourge.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Mexico.
Ms. Peláez (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): I want to 
take this opportunity, on my own behalf and on behalf 
of my country, to reiterate our appreciation for all the 
expressions  of  solidarity  we  have  received  from  the 
international  community  following  the  earthquakes 
in Mexico in recent weeks. We will not forget it. Our 
sympathy and support are with the countries affected 
by the recent hurricanes.
On behalf of the Government of Mexico, we welcome 
the decision of the General Assembly to convene this 
17-30244
15/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
meeting  to  review  progress  in  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  and  to  jointly  address  the 
challenges that persist and that are still before us. We 
recognize  that  the  factors  linked  to  the  disparate  and 
inequitable development that led the United Nations to 
approve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
are  echoed  in  the  undeniable  relationship  between 
marginalization  and  inequality,  which  is  a  factor  in 
the  victimization  of  people  who  are  trafficked.  That 
was  expressed  in  the  political  declaration  on  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1) approved yesterday, and that calls us to produce 
policies of greater reach and aimed at the development 
of our nations and the people living in them.
The Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons emphasizes the contribution made at regional 
levels that complements and reinforces collective actions 
to combat this scourge, but we wish to emphasize the 
need to align the objectives and strategies of the many 
global  programmes  and  plans,  thereby  ensuring  the 
effectiveness  of  national  actions  and  the  achievement 
of multilateral objectives.
The  Government  of  Mexico,  as  an  actor 
with  global  responsibility,  renews  its  support  for 
multilateral efforts to eradicate trafficking in persons 
and  respects  its  commitment  to  the  victims  of  these 
crimes,  implementing  development  policies  centred 
on  the  individual  to  attack  extreme  poverty,  social 
exclusion,  discrimination  and  lack  of  opportunities. 
We  are  promoting  social  prevention  of  violence  and 
delinquency.  Those  measures  will  allow  us  to  make 
progress  in  implementing  the  commitments  that  we 
adopted  in  the  2030  Agenda  and  in  the  Global  Plan 
of Action.
Thanks  to  the  latter,  we  have  a  robust  legal 
framework  for  assisting  and  protecting  the  victims  of 
these crimes. It incorporates a human rights perspective 
and gender and age considerations. We have increased 
sentences against traffickers, and in four years we have 
doubled the number of investigations of these crimes. We 
are currently implementing a national anti-trafficking 
programme, and for the first time we have an integral 
reparation fund for the victims. The participation and 
partnership  we  have  built  with  academic  institutions 
and civil society to improve the work of the State are 
indispensable in these tasks.
We are aware of the challenges ahead. In order to 
measure and improve the performance of the Mexican 
State  with  regard  to  this  crime,  the  United  Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime carried out, at the request of 
the Mexican Government, a national diagnosis. We are 
working in coordination with states and municipalities 
to overcome the gaps identified and to strengthen local 
capacities.  As  part  of  those  efforts,  we  are  setting  up 
the National Information System against Trafficking in 
Persons, which will give us a robust database. Among 
other  things,  that  will  align  our  care  and  protection 
services for the victims with civil-society information, 
thus improving the generation of reports, tools and maps 
that  will  heighten  our  investigation  and  prosecution 
activities,  on  the  one  hand,  and  our  prevention  and 
protection activities for the victims, on the other.
To intensify strategies for prevention and reporting 
among  particularly  vulnerable  populations,  with  the 
support  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime, we launched the Blue Heart 2.0 Campaign against 
Trafficking in Persons — Mexico#AquíEstoy — to give 
a voice to the victims of these crimes and to promote a 
single national number for citizens to report them.
Mexico identifies as an important challenge within 
the  framework  of  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Global 
Action  Plan  the  active  participation  of  the  productive 
sector.  Industrialists,  businesses  and  businesspeople, 
and  workers’  unions  should  help  make  visible  human 
trafficking  and  exploitation  in  all  its  forms,  and  help 
fight it.
Trafficking affects all regions of the world. It is a 
global phenomenon, so we must find local solutions as 
countries of origin, transit and destination. According 
to data from the International Labour Organization, this 
crime is one of the most lucrative areas for organized 
crime.  The  formal  production  sector  cannot  remain 
apart from efforts to make human trafficking visible.
Trafficking  and  its  profits  are  a  product  of  the 
permanent violation of the right to dignity of persons. 
We  must  be  responsible  as  consumers,  and  States 
should  facilitate  awareness-raising  by  establishing 
rules  so  that  the  goods  and  services  that  societies 
consume  are  expressed  in  terms  of  human  value.  We 
must  transform  our  systems  of  consumption,  giving 
producers of goods and services incentives to make the 
value chains transparent. And we must invest more in 
the human being. We must make the most of the ability 
16/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
of  advertising  and  marketing  to  influence  society, 
redirecting consumption to make it more responsible.
We urgently need to promote social mobilization in 
favour of asserting the rights of all persons. We must 
rescue  those  who  are  being  exploited.  It  depends  on 
every human being on the planet being aware of others, 
as the best way to make the status of servant and slave 
vanish from the face of the Earth. Until that time comes, 
every human being who is aware of human trafficking 
must contribute to its eradication.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Philippines.
Mr. Catapang (Philippines): Trafficking in persons 
is a heinous crime that victimizes the most vulnerable 
members of society. As we come together to examine 
our efforts, guided by the United Nations Global Plan of 
Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons and the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  let  us  reaffirm 
our resolve to assist and protect the victims, prosecute 
and punish the perpetrators and end its occurrence.
Over  10  million  Filipinos  work  outside  of  the 
Philippines. As that represents approximately 10 per cent 
of our population, it imperative for us to provide a mantle 
of protections for our Filipino migrants. The Philippines 
has established a comprehensive mechanism to protect 
them,  based  upon  a  framework  of  laws,  regulations, 
policies, programmes and institutions, using a migrant-
centred  approach  to  the  entire  migration  cycle,  from 
pre-employment,  transit  and  on-site  employment  to 
return migration and reintegration.
Through  the  Migrant  Workers  Act,  we  have 
strengthened  the  regulation  of  recruitment  agencies 
to  prevent  abuse  and  maltreatment  abroad  and  have 
prescribed  minimum  wages  for  our  domestic  workers 
through  standardized  contracts  wherever  possible. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  amended  Anti-Trafficking 
Act  criminalizes  even  attempted  trafficking,  making 
it  punishable  by  imprisonment.  The  liabilities  of 
accessories  and  accomplices  to  human  trafficking 
activities have also been spelled out.
The Philippines underscores the need for a creative, 
multidisciplinary,  multisectoral  and  comprehensive 
approach. To that end, the Government established the 
Inter-Agency  Council  against  trafficking,  composed 
of  representatives  of  relevant  Government  agencies, 
civil society organizations, faith-based groups and the 
private sector, among others.
in 
resulted 
Concerted efforts, especially through the Council, 
have 
the  successful  prosecution  of 
perpetrators of human trafficking. From 2005 to June 
2017, the Philippines has had a total of 297 convictions, 
involving  317  perpetrators.  In  2016,  for  example,  44 
cases of trafficking in persons produced 53 convictions, 
36  of  which  involved  sentences  to  life  imprisonment. 
Just from January to June this year, the Philippines has 
had 23 convictions for human trafficking.
For  the  Philippines,  our  commitment  to  battle 
trafficking  in  women  and  girls  is  manifest  in  our 
submission since 1994 of a General Assembly resolution 
on  trafficking  in  women  and  girls.  Resolution  71/167 
recognizes  the  importance  of  a  revitalized  global 
partnership  to  ensure  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda. It calls for further work to understand the link 
between  migration  and  trafficking  in  persons  and  to 
develop more effective responses to eliminate the risk 
of trafficking in the migration process.
That  resolution  also  recognizes  the  heightened 
vulnerability  to  trafficking  in  humanitarian  crisis 
situations. In response, last year the Philippines passed 
into law the Children’s Emergency Relief and Protection 
Act. It dictates that during a state of national or local 
calamity, the police, military and Government-service 
providers shall immediately undertake comprehensive 
measures  and  monitoring  to  prevent  child  trafficking 
for labour or sexual exploitation.
For 
the  Philippine  Government,  adopting  an 
approach  involving  one  country  team  and  multiple 
stakeholders has proved to be effective. It consolidates 
the  mandates,  efforts,  resources  and  interests  of  the 
various  duty-bearers  and  stakeholders 
in  coming 
up  with  a  robust  response.  It  has  also  enabled  us  to 
mainstream  the  interventions  down  to  the  grass-roots 
level  by  activating  local  structures  at  the  village, 
city  and  municipal  level,  such  as  the  Council  against 
Trafficking and Violence against Women and Children.
We  have  also  forged  bilateral  agreements  with 
migrant-destination  countries 
to  protect  Filipino 
workers,  entered  into  a  regional  agreement  in  the 
Association  for  Southeast  Asian  Nations  for  closer 
collaboration and pursued partnerships with multilateral 
agencies.  We  likewise  actively  participate  in  regional 
forums, such as the Australia-Asia Programme against 
Trafficking in Persons and the Bali Process on People 
Smuggling,  Trafficking 
in  Persons  and  Related 
Transnational Crime.
17-30244
17/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
The  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
(UNODC) Global Report on Trafficking in Persons 2016
highlights  the  magnitude  of  this  continuing  problem. 
More than ever, the need for a strong political will and 
decisive, concerted action at the global level cannot be 
overemphasized. While we note a significant increase 
in the number of parties to the relevant United Nations 
conventions on trafficking in persons, we continue to 
urge those States that have not ratified them to finally 
consider  doing  so.  We  appreciate  the  vital  role  of  the 
UNODC  in  that  respect,  particularly  in  its  efforts  to 
capacitate States by providing technical assistance.
The Philippines has been a supporter of the United 
Nations  voluntary  trust  fund  to  protect  victims  of 
human trafficking, recognizing its valuable work with 
survivors. As a gesture of our continuing commitment, 
the Philippines commits to contributing a modest sum 
of $10,000 to that fund.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Peru.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  thank  the  Ambassadors  of 
Greece, Qatar and Belgium for their excellent work as 
facilitators  of  the  resolution  on  modalities  (resolution 
71/287)  and  the  political  declaration  we  adopted 
yesterday (resolution 72/1). In the political declaration, 
we reaffirmed our will and commitment to the Global 
Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons and the 
obligations it sets out that we have assumed: preventing 
crime,  protecting  and  assisting  victims,  prosecuting 
perpetrators  and  reinforcing  partnerships  for  more 
efficient and coherent joint action.
Trafficking in persons is a phenomenon as complex 
as the horrors it generates, in which the individual, in 
addition  to  being  deprived  of  freedom,  is  deprived  of 
humanity — exploited as a commodity in prostitution 
networks, performing forced labour or being a victim 
of  the  sale  of  organs  to  the  highest  bidder.  In  that 
regard,  trafficking  is  embedded  in  various  dynamics 
that  must  be  carefully  addressed,  such  as  its  relation 
to other crimes; the use of social networks to capture 
the  victims;  the  greater  vulnerability  of  women, 
adolescents,  children,  migrants  and  refugees;  and  in 
some cases, its use in situations of armed conflict.
We in Peru have developed a national plan against 
trafficking in persons 2017-2021, framed in the United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime and its Protocols, adopted in Palermo, Italy. Our 
plan deploys a compete, comprehensive and coordinated 
strategy. It is complete because of its focus on four axes of 
priority: caring for the victims; governance, prevention 
and  awareness-raising;  protection  and  reintegration; 
and investigation and prosecution. It is comprehensive 
because trafficking in persons is related to other crimes, 
such as the illegal smuggling of migrants, and we also 
take  into  account  the  structural  elements  that  lead  to 
greater vulnerability. And it is coordinated because we 
must strengthen the collaboration between the different 
levels of government and civil-society participation.
Governments  have  a  great  responsibility,  but 
we  cannot  fight  this  fight  alone.  The  support  of  the 
United  Nations  is  indispensable,  and  the  role  of  the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in Persons (ICAT) is crucial for consistency. We would 
like to take the opportunity to welcome the work of all 
of  the  members  of  ICAT,  especially  the  coordinating 
role of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, 
which also publishes the Global Report on Trafficking 
in Persons, which is very useful to us.
circumstances 
common 
challenges in certain regions underscore the relevance 
of  also  providing  support  to  regional  organizations, 
for  example,  the  Second  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in persons in the Western Hemisphere 2015-
2018. Among the objectives of that Plan are increasing 
awareness of the population and reducing situations of 
vulnerability to prevent crime.
and 
The 
specific 
On  the  bilateral  level,  I  would  like  to  highlight 
the  initiative  of  the  so-called  legal  protection  belts 
against  trafficking  in  persons,  which  we  have  been 
implementing with our neighbouring countries.
To  conclude,  let  me  reaffirm  Peru’s  commitment 
to implementing the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons and my delegation’s commitment 
to constructively participating in the review processes.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Paraguay.
Mr.  Arriola  Ramírez  (Paraguay)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  The  Republic  of  Paraguay  joins  the  voices 
condemning  trafficking  in  persons  —  a  crime  that 
violates human dignity. It is incompatible with respect 
for  human  rights  and  has  harmful  effects  on  the 
sustainable development of States and on the promotion 
of  peaceful,  just  and  inclusive  societies,  free  of  fear 
and violence.
18/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
In  accordance  with  our  international  obligations, 
Paraguay  has  adopted  specific  measures  to  prevent 
and  punish  this  crime.  Since  2005,  we  have  had  an 
inter-institutional  bureau,  composed  of  governmental 
institutions, 
international 
organizations.  In  a  coordinated  and  collaborative 
manner,  it  undertakes  actions  for  a  multidimensional 
approach to trafficking in persons.
society 
civil 
and 
In terms of public policies, the National Policy on 
Preventing  and  Combating  Trafficking  in  Persons  is 
in  force.  It  establishes  the  principles,  approaches  and 
strategic  axes  for  prevention,  investigation,  criminal 
sanctions,  protection  and  comprehensive  care  of 
victims.  Its  principles  prioritize  caring  for  children 
and adolescents. Similarly, in 2012 the comprehensive 
law against trafficking in persons was enacted. It aims 
to  prevent  and  punish  that  crime,  whether  within  the 
country  or  abroad,  and  it  provides  a  framework  of 
comprehensive protection for victims, whether primary 
or secondary.
Furthermore, in my country the expected maximum 
sentence  is  up  to  20  years  in  prison  for  those  who 
capture,  transport,  transfer  or  receive  direct  victims 
of trafficking. Moreover, I would highlight the recent 
adoption  of  the  National  Plan  for  the  Prevention  and 
Combating  of  Trafficking  in  Persons.  It  is  a  tool  that 
draws  up  the  road  map  for  institutions  responsible 
for  dealing  with  structural  problems  that  expose 
people  to  situations  that  make  them  vulnerable  to 
human trafficking.
With  respect  to  mixed  migratory  movements,  the 
mission of Paraguay, through the National Commission 
for  Refugees,  is  to  provide  protection  and  assistance 
to  potential  victims  of  trafficking  in  persons  from 
such movements.
Trafficking  in  persons  affects  all  countries  and 
regions,  but  it  strikes  harder  at  those  for  whom  the 
factors  that  make  people  most  vulnerable  to  this 
crime — poverty, unemployment, lack of socioeconomic 
opportunities,  gender  violence,  discrimination  and 
marginalization — are a constant reality.
Paraguay calls on the international community to 
give due consideration to the following issues.
First,  migration  should  not  be  criminalized,  and 
a  security  approach  to  it  should  be  eschewed.  States 
should  promote  open,  safe  and  regular  migration 
channels,  which  would  contribute  to  the  eradication 
of  trafficking  in  persons.  Secondly,  the  link  between 
trafficking  in  persons  and  drug  trafficking  cannot 
remain  invisible.  Thirdly,  trafficking  for  the  purpose 
of  labour  exploitation  must  be  expressly  included  in 
international  instruments  and  national  legislation  as 
a  criminal  offense,  so  that  the  criminal  prosecution 
of offenders is effective. Fourthly, cooperation among 
States is essential, especially as regards assistance, the 
repatriation of victims and transnational prosecution of 
the crime.
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  Paraguay’s  commitment 
to combating all forms of trafficking in persons, and I 
express our willingness to continue to collaborate with 
regional and international efforts aimed at that goal.
Yesterday  I  was  awarded  this  Blue  Heart  for 
the  expertise  of  my  delegation.  They  explained  its 
significance to me, and I would like to make an appeal 
in that regard. It is of utmost importance that, in addition 
to wearing such a pin on our lapels, we hold this issue 
close  to  our  hearts,  at  the  forefront  of  our  minds  and 
in our actions, so that we will be able to successfully 
fight this scourge, which affects all of our countries and 
constitutes a true attack on human dignity.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of India.
Mr.  Govind  (India):  At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of 
my  country,  let  me  convey  our  deep  appreciation  for 
the  commendable  efforts  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Qatar and Belgium, as co-facilitators 
of resolution 72/1, helping us to translate our collective 
commitment 
the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  I  would 
also  thank  the  President  for  organizing  this  high-
level meeting.
into  a  political  declaration  on 
A deliberation on combating trafficking has special 
significance  today,  as  the  mass  exodus  of  people  in 
distress in different parts of the world is making them 
increasingly vulnerable to trafficking.
We have progressed since the adoption of the United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons  in  July  2010.  The  four  Ps  —  prevention, 
protection, prosecution and partnership — have become 
the  keystones  of  institutional  architecture  at  national, 
regional and international levels.
The Government of India has accorded the highest 
priority  to  combating  trafficking.  It  has  adopted 
17-30244
19/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
a  multi-pronged  and  multi-stakeholder  approach 
to  tackling  this  multidimensional  problem.  Those 
holistic steps and strategies are not restricted to direct 
intervention  against  trafficking  in  isolation.  India’s 
anti-trafficking  legislative  framework  is  based  on  the 
bedrock of article 23 of our Constitution, which prohibits 
trafficking  and  forced  labour.  India  has  a  strong  and 
effective legislative framework to address the issue of 
trafficking,  including  the  protection  of  children  and 
women  from  sexual  exploitation  and  the  prohibition 
of  bonded  and  child  labour,  the  transplantation  of 
human organs and selling and buying for the purpose 
of prostitution.
With the amendment of our criminal law in 2013, 
trafficking  has  been  defined  comprehensively  and 
provisions have been made for the stringent punishment 
of  traffickers.  We  have  also  initiated  the  process  of 
formulating  comprehensive  legislation  on  trafficking 
of  persons,  covering  all  of  its  aspects,  including 
prosecution,  prevention;  protection  of  victims, 
witnesses  and  complainants;  and  the  rehabilitation 
of victims.
A 
scheme 
For the prevention and faster investigation of crimes 
of  trafficking,  264  anti-human-trafficking  units  and 
150  specialized  investigative  units  for  crime  against 
women have been set up across the country. Capacity-
building of law-enforcement agencies and the judiciary 
to  ensure  a  faster  criminal  justice  response  has  been 
accorded high priority.
comprehensive 
entitled  Ujjwala, 
meaning  “bright  future”,  has  been  introduced  to 
facilitate the rescue, rehabilitation and reintegration of 
trafficking  victims.  It  also  facilitates  the  repatriation 
of  cross-border  victims.  Special  drives,  such  as 
Operation  Smile,  are  conducted  regularly  for  rescued 
trafficked  children.  Innovative  use  of  information 
technology,  such  as  the  Track  Child  and  Khoya-Paya 
portals,  and  strong  standard  operating  procedures  for 
law-enforcement agencies have been met with success. 
Similarly, railways have also issued standard operating 
procedures,  in  accordance  with  the  Juvenile  Justice 
(Care and Protection of Children) Act of 2000.
on  Preventing  and  Combating  the  Trafficking  in 
Women  and  Children  for  Prostitution  and  bilateral 
memorandums of understanding with the Government 
of  Bangladesh  in  2015  and  with  the  United  Arab 
Emirates in January 2017.
Despite collective efforts at the national, regional 
and international levels, the battle against the scourge 
of human trafficking is far from over. In implementing 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Persons  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and its Supplementary Protocols — of which India is a 
signatory — the focus also needs to be on development 
issues  in  the  countries  of  origin  and  demand  for 
trafficked  persons 
in 
destination countries.
for  exploitative  purposes 
We  need  to  redouble  our  efforts  and  adopt  a 
multi-pronged strategy. India stands firmly committed 
to  working  with  the  international  community  in  its 
battle against trafficking in persons.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Cameroon.
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
in 
French):  It  should  be  recalled  that  this  high-level 
meeting follows the decision of the General Assembly 
in 2013 to evaluate the United Nations Global Plan of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  adopted  in 
2010,  every  four  years.  It  should  be  underlined  that 
the  Global  Plan  is  an  expression  of  Member  States’ 
firm determination to prevent and combat trafficking, 
protect and assist victims, prosecute their perpetrators 
and foster partnerships to strengthen coordination and 
cooperation in that area.
Trafficking in human beings is exacerbated by the 
increase  in  migratory  movements.  Those  movements 
place migrants in a precarious and vulnerable situation 
that encourages trafficking in human beings, especially 
women  and  children.  At  a  time  when  terrorism  is 
increasing in all parts of the world, migrants, refugees 
and displaced persons are the most sought-after targets 
for all kinds of abuses.
India’s  endeavour  is  to  eradicate  trafficking  by 
empowering  the  vulnerable  sections  of  our  society, 
including through the effective implementation of the 
Sustainable Development Goals. In order to strengthen 
international cooperation, India signed the South Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  Convention 
The  actions  of  the  terrorist  sect  Boko  Haram, 
which is affiliated with the powerful jihadist movement 
Da’esh, provide a strong example of that. In what could 
be called a new form of trafficking in human beings, that 
sect recruits or kidnaps, by force or with the promise of 
money,  girls  and  boys,  often  adolescents.  Sometimes 
20/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
those adolescents are exchanged for ransom, sometimes 
they are forcibly married or reduced to sexual slavery. 
Sometimes  they  are  indoctrinated,  including  through 
physical abuse and threats of death or even execution, 
whether  by  drugs  or  explosives  belts  and  being  sent 
as  human  bombs  into  civilian  populations,  places  of 
worship, markets, festivities or funerals. On 25 January 
2016,  four  young  female  kamikazes  exploded  their 
bombs in a market in the extreme north of my country, 
killing 32 people and wounding more than 60.
That underscores the importance of implementing 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  combat  this  scourge. 
Cameroon is firmly committed in that regard, and our 
country has taken steps to effectively combat all forms 
of trafficking. Those steps include the strengthening of 
the political, institutional and legal frameworks. They 
also include awareness-raising, education, training and 
protection and care for victims, and repression.
the 
international  conventions  on 
In  that  regard,  our  country  has  reaffirmed  the 
principal 
issue, 
particularly  the  1949  Convention  for  the  Suppression 
of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the 
Prostitution of Others, the Abolition of Forced Labour 
Convention No. 105 and the Minimum Age Convention 
No. 138 of the International Labour Organization, and 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto.
On 14 December 2011, Cameroon adopted a law on 
combating trafficking in persons. It regularly organizes 
awareness-raising  and  information  campaigns  in  the 
most exposed regions of the country. All of those actions 
are coordinated, at the level of the Prime Minister, by 
an interministerial committee created for that purpose.
In addition, in order to increase the visibility and 
coordination of our actions to combat human trafficking 
at the regional level, our country is part of the group 
of  West  and  Central  African  States,  which  has  set  up 
multidisciplinary  coordination  structures.  The  roles 
assigned  to  those  structures  include  the  collection  of 
information on the treatment of persons, coordination 
of  the  efforts  of  Governments  and  partners,  the 
collection  of  data,  the  protection  of  victims  and,  in 
some  countries,  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of 
perpetrators of such crimes. That initiative enjoys the 
technical support of the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and Crime, which my country wishes to commend once 
again. We also call for contributions to the fund set up 
to aid victims of trafficking in order to provide victims 
with the assistance and protection that they need.
In the light of all that is ongoing, my country fully 
aligns  itself  with  the  political  declaration  (resolution 
72/1) adopted by consensus at the high-level meeting, 
which  is  aimed  at  giving  new  impetus  to  all  actions 
taken  at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels  to 
combat trafficking in human beings, as envisaged in the 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
of  2010.  Human  dignity  is  at  stake,  and  it  should  not 
suffer any harm.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of the Bahamas.
Ms.  Carey  (Bahamas):  As  an  archipelagic  nation 
with a vast ocean area, the Bahamas experiences large 
mixed  migration  from  within  the  Caribbean  region 
and  from  South  and  Central  America,  Europe  and 
Asia. Because we are geographically located next to a 
major  destination  country,  our  porous  borders  render 
us ideally suited as a transit point for illicit trafficking 
activities. Trafficking in persons is no exception.
The  Bahamas  considers  trafficking  in  persons 
a  heinous  crime.  Accordingly,  we  have  committed 
to  taking  a  very  proactive  approach  to  combat  it.  In 
September  2008,  the  Bahamas  became  a  party  to  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime  and  the  Protocols  thereto.  In  2008, 
the  Bahamas  enacted 
in  persons 
prevention  and  suppression  act,  a  comprehensive 
and  wide-ranging  piece  of  legislation  that,  inter  alia, 
criminalizes  trafficking  in  persons  and  prescribes 
strict  penalties  for  all  aspects  of  the  crime,  including 
withholding  of  travel  documents  and  work  permits. 
The  legislation  includes  the  full  range  of  protection 
for  victims  of  trafficking,  including  exemption  from 
customary immigration sanctions.
trafficking 
the 
In  collaboration  with 
the  Bahamas  produced 
the  non-governmental 
the  Government 
organization  (NGO)  community, 
the  Government  of 
of 
the  Commonwealth  of 
the  Bahamas  National 
Anti-trafficking  in  Persons  Strategy  for  the  period 
2014-2018.  The  Strategy  is  intended  to  engender 
collective understanding and coordinated action among 
stakeholders  and  actors  and  to  ensure  the  financial 
support  of  local  and  international  donors.  It  reflects 
the  guiding  principles  of  the  efforts  of  the  Bahamas 
to  combat  trafficking  in  persons,  including  civil-
17-30244
21/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
society participation, observance of human rights, and 
interdisciplinary and cross-sectional approaches.
global partnership that we can secure a sustainable and 
peaceful future.
Several  national  bodies  on  trafficking  in  persons 
have  been  established  in  the  Bahamas,  including  a 
coordinating  group  for  policy  matters,  a  task  force 
responsible  for  operational  matters  and  units  in  the 
office of the Attorney General and the Royal Bahamas 
Police  Force.  The  Government  of  the  Bahamas,  in 
collaboration with the NGO community, is conducting 
a nationwide campaign to raise public awareness about 
trafficking in persons in the Bahamas, through education 
programmes  for  students,  vulnerable  populations, 
the  business  community,  the  public  and  Government 
officials.  The  Department  of  Labour  screens  for 
indicators  of  trafficking  when  inspecting  worksites. 
It  also  advises  job  seekers  about  potential  fraudulent 
recruitment practices in tourism-related industries.
General  standing  operating  procedures  for  victim 
identification,  protection  and  referral  and  specific 
procedures for data collection and victim care have been 
developed. The Government has increased funding for 
victim  assistance,  initiated  several  labour-  and  sex-
trafficking  investigations,  screened  potential  victims 
and  identified  several  trafficking  victims.  In  August, 
two  people  were  convicted  of  trafficking-in-persons 
offences,  and  several  trials  are  ongoing,  both  in 
the  Magistrate’s  Court  and  in  the  Supreme  Court. 
In  addition,  the  Bahamas’  action  plan  relative  to 
combating trafficking in persons has been adopted by 
other Caribbean countries as a model.
I 
just  mentioned 
demonstrates  that  the  Bahamas  is  very  serious  about 
eliminating  trafficking  in  persons.  While  we  have 
made  significant  strides  in  that  regard,  including  the 
enhancement  of  legislative  and  policy  environments, 
the  Bahamian  Government  will  continue  to  promote 
strong  collaboration  across  multiple  Government 
agencies to facilitate the prosecution of traffickers and 
the protection of victims.
The  sample  of 
initiatives 
Recognizing  the  vast  reach  of  human  trafficking 
rings  and  their  links  with  drug  trafficking,  money-
laundering,  terrorism  financing  and  illegal  migration 
networks,  we  believe  that  trafficking  in  persons  is 
an  issue  that  must  be  addressed  by  the  international 
community.  With  our  limited  resources,  we  cannot 
combat by ourselves a crime that operates on a global 
scale.  The  Bahamas  believes  that  it  is  only  through 
We are pleased about the adoption yesterday of the 
political declaration on the implementation of the United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons (resolution 72/1), and pleased to participate 
in  this  high-level  meeting  on  trafficking  in  persons. 
We  look  forward  to  continuing  dialogue  on  ways  to 
foster  international  coordination  and  cooperation  in 
preventing  and  combating  trafficking  in  persons  and 
protecting victims of such trafficking.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Republic of Korea.
Mr. Jung Min Seo (Republic of Korea): On behalf 
of the Government of the Republic of Korea, I would 
like  to  extend  my  sincere  appreciation  to  the  United 
Nations  for  its  tireless  efforts  aimed  at  combating 
human  trafficking  and  for  convening  this  high-level 
meeting.  I  also  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  political 
declaration on the implementation of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
(resolution 72/1), which emphasizes our unified will to 
cope with this issue.
Seven  years  have  elapsed  since 
the  General 
Assembly adopted the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons.  The  Global  Plan  remains 
an  important  framework  in  addressing  this  ongoing 
challenge.  This  heinous  and  multifaceted  crime  preys 
on  vulnerable  individuals  and  thrives  in  situations  of 
conflict.  The  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action 
is  designed  to  effectively  tackle  this  serious  human 
rights crime in terms of preventing human trafficking, 
protecting 
prosecuting 
perpetrators and strengthening partnerships.
assisting 
and 
victims, 
The  Korean  Government  supports  the  Global 
Plan  of  Action  and  has  taken  measures  to  put  an 
end  to  trafficking  in  persons  in  accordance  with 
the  United  Nations  blueprint.  In  2013,  we  codified 
human trafficking as a serious crime in our domestic 
legislation. In 2015, we ratified the Convention against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  the  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially Women and Children.
Prevention plays a large role in bringing about an 
end to this crime. Prevention involves capacity-building 
at the national level and addressing social inequalities 
and gender discrimination, among other root causes. In 
22/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
that regard, Korea believes that, in order to strengthen 
our ability to prevent this crime, the best practices and 
lessons learned in countering human trafficking should 
be more actively shared and promoted across the globe.
Another  important  aspect  is  the  protection  of, 
and  assistance  for,  victims.  This  crime  often  targets 
society’s  most  vulnerable  members,  making  it  all  the 
more  necessary  for  policies  to  be  formulated  using  a 
victim-centred approach.
The 
strengthening  of  partnerships 
is  also 
important, since human trafficking is by its very nature 
a  transnational  activity.  The  perpetrators  of  these 
crimes thrive in the shadows of lawlessness and must 
be brought to justice through the coordinated efforts of 
Member States.
Finally, my delegation would like to emphasize its 
policy support for the public-sector, private-sector and 
civil-society  entities  that  are  fully  and  cooperatively 
engaged  in  the  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons. 
The  Korean  Government  believes  that  the  United 
Nations Global Plan of Action rightly stresses the need 
for  partnership-building  and  fully  supports  United 
Nations efforts aimed at encouraging cooperation at all 
levels, promoting effective mutual legal assistance and 
criminal extradition, strengthening public-private and 
civil-society  partnerships  and  bolstering  cooperation 
among  law-enforcement  agencies.  My  Government 
recognizes  the  urgency  of  this  challenge  and  is 
committed to providing its full support in a fight that 
pits the darkest elements of our society against its most 
vulnerable elements.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of the Federal Republic 
of Germany.
Mr. Schulz (Germany): I would like to thank the 
facilitators,  Qatar  and  Belgium,  for  their  efforts  in 
preparing this important event. The call of the political 
declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons (resolution 
72/1) will provide a new stimulus in our efforts to fight 
human trafficking of all kinds, including forced labour, 
slavery  and  similar  practices.  I  would  like  to  make 
three major points.
First,  I  would  like  to  underline  Germany’s  strong 
commitment  to  combating  human  trafficking.  Our 
resolutions  in  the  Human  Rights  Council,  submitted 
together  with  the  Philippines,  are  based  on  our  firm 
belief that victims of trafficking need to be protected 
and assisted, with full respect for their human rights. 
Traffickers treat their victims as mere commodities to 
create as much profit as possible, or sometimes even to 
satisfy a sadistic craving for power. Surely we cannot 
let  such  a  gross  abuse  of  human  dignity  continue  in 
our time. We as States must ensure that we effectively 
implement  existing  international  standards  to  protect 
the human rights of the victims. We must also ensure 
that victims have access to remedies to address alleged 
abuses  and  violations  without  fear  of  blacklisting, 
detention or deportation.
Germany 
is  co-financing  various  projects 
to 
combat  trafficking  in  human  beings,  for  example,  in 
Mauritania  and  the  Central  African  Republic,  along 
with  the  International  Organization  for  Migration, 
and  in  the  Sahel  region,  with  INTERPOL.  We  have 
also  invited  Ms.  Nadia  Ahmed,  the  Yazidi  human 
rights  activist  and  the  first  Goodwill  Ambassador  for 
the Dignity of Survivors of Human Trafficking of the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and some 
1,000  other  traumatized  refugees  from  northern  Iraq, 
to Germany.
Secondly, human trafficking is often a transnational 
crime  that  can  be  fought  only  through  international 
cooperation in the areas of prevention, prosecution and 
victim protection. The necessity to cooperate becomes 
more  pressing  as  we  see  the  number  of  refugees  and 
migrants  worldwide  increase  and  acknowledge  that 
they  are  particularly  vulnerable  and  may  easily  fall 
prey  to  traffickers.  The  basis  for  our  cooperation  is 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime and its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children. We should all ratify and implement these 
legal instruments in order to ensure strong foundations 
for the rule of law.
My  third,  and  last,  point  is  that  preventing 
human trafficking has many facets. If we take labour 
exploitation as an example, millions of people are part 
of  global  supply  chains,  and  some  of  them  work  in 
exploitative and often harmful or dangerous conditions. 
Companies  with  international  supplier  chains  have  a 
responsibility  to  ensure  good  working  conditions  for 
their  employees.  The  German  2016  national  action 
plan on business and human rights expects companies 
to  exercise  human  rights  due  diligence.  The  action 
plan  and  our  2014  partnership  for  sustainable  textiles 
initiative are just two examples of the endeavours we 
17-30244
23/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
have  undertaken  to  improve  trade  and  supply-chain 
standards and to fight labour exploitation worldwide.
Human  trafficking  is  despicable  because  of  the 
suffering  it  inflicts  on  the  most  vulnerable.  Let  us 
redouble our efforts to protect victims and fight human 
trafficking in all its forms.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  the 
Chair of the delegation of the Russian Federation.
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Our  delegation  welcomes 
the  adoption 
by  consensus  of  the  political  declaration  on  the 
implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons 
(resolution 72/1).
 We align ourselves with the joint statement made 
on behalf of the Group of Friends United against Human 
Trafficking  (see  A/72/PV.24),  and  we  note  the  active 
efforts of the delegation of Belarus in coordinating the 
Group’s work.
that 
Tangible  results  in  fighting  a  threat  as  serious 
as  human  trafficking  can  be  achieved  only  if  there  is 
political  will,  a  joining  of  Government  efforts  with 
those  of  business  and  civil  society,  and  balanced 
attention given to the countries of origin and destination 
of these living commodities. In today’s world, there is 
growing understanding of the fact that a comprehensive 
approach 
includes  prevention,  assistance  for 
victims  and  prosecution  of  perpetrators  is  needed  to 
address the problem of trafficking. Human trafficking 
is linked to continuing disparities in the socioeconomic 
development of countries and regions, greater flows of 
refugees  and  illegal  migrants,  and  increased  activity 
among  international  criminal  organizations.  In  the 
context  of  the  work  to  prevent  human  trafficking,  it 
is necessary to eradicate the root causes, in particular 
a  legalized  sex  industry,  the  demand  for  a  cheap  and 
disenfranchised workforce, poverty and unemployment.
Our  country  is  a  signatory  to  many  international 
treaties  on 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
and  the  Russian  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  held  an 
international conference on public-private partnerships 
to  combat  human  trafficking.  It  brought  together  200 
participants  from  40  States.  The  meeting  provided  us 
with  an  opportunity  to  hold  a  meaningful  discussion 
on  the  scope  and  consequences  of  human  trafficking 
and  labour  exploitation  for  private  business,  the  role 
issue.  In  July 
this 
in  Moscow, 
the  existing 
of  Governments  and  the  private  sector  in  combating 
this  phenomenon  and 
international 
instruments  adopted  to  that  end.  Russia  is  an  active 
participant in a related thematic programme sponsored 
by  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  (CIS) 
designed, inter alia, to improve and streamline national 
legislation  on  combating  human 
trafficking  and 
providing  assistance  to  victims.  We  regularly  provide 
resources  for  staff-training  projects  undertaken  by 
the  International  Training  Centre  for  Migration  and 
Combating  Trafficking  in  Human  Beings.  Located  in 
Minsk, it is the main organization of the countries of 
the CIS in this field.
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  central  role 
in  uniting  the  efforts  of  international  and  national 
entities  established  to  combat  human  trafficking,  and 
we  acknowledge  the  consistent  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  in  this  area.  Of 
particular importance is the assistance that it provides 
to  interested  States  for  the  purposes  of  combating 
existing problems.
While we believe that each country has the right to 
define the national mechanism that is optimal for it in 
the fight against human trafficking, we also support the 
development  and  capacity-building  activities  that  the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in Persons and its member organizations provide in the 
implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action.  We  are 
convinced that the Global Plan will remain an effective 
road  map  and  a  major  guide  for  the  international 
community  as  a  whole  as  it  strives  to  combat  these 
criminal  commercial  activities.  We  hope  that  the 
discussion  at  this  high-level  meeting  will  facilitate 
progress in this area.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Pakistan.
Mr.  Hashmi  (Pakistan):  Pakistan  welcomes  this 
high-level  meeting.  We  reiterate  our  strong  support 
for and commitment to bringing an end to the heinous 
crime of trafficking in persons, especially women and 
children. We also welcome the adoption of the political 
declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons, which was adopted yesterday (resolution 72/1).
Trafficking  in  persons  continues  to  be  one  of  the 
most  serious  offences.  It  violates  the  human  rights  of 
the  individual  and  undermines  peace  and  sustainable 
development. It is an egregious violation of the principles 
24/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
of human dignity and integrity and threatens the rule 
of  law.  Trafficking  in  persons,  especially  women  and 
children,  is  condemnable  in  all  its  forms,  including 
sexual  exploitation,  debt  bondage,  organ  removal  and 
forced labour. The transnational nature of this complex 
crime  calls  for  enhanced  international  cooperation 
among countries of origin, transit and destination.
Given  the  present  large-scale  displacement  of 
human beings occurring in several regions of the world, 
this issue has taken on greater relevance and importance 
than ever. It is therefore crucial that countries of origin, 
transit and destination do all they can to halt and reverse 
such  trafficking.  A  pervasive  sense  of  despondency 
and  lack  of  prospects  induced  by  protracted  conflict 
and insecurity lies at the core of this phenomenon. To 
successfully  combat  trafficking  in  persons,  Member 
States  need  to  address  the  root  causes  and  drivers  of 
trafficking, such as poverty, inequality and protracted 
conflict.  Sustainable  solutions  require  the  redoubling 
of  efforts  aimed  at  addressing  the  demand  side  of 
the equation.
The United Nations Convention against Transnational 
Organized  Crime,  together  with  the  Protocol  on 
Trafficking in Persons, has served as a centrepiece of 
the existing global framework to combat this challenge. 
The  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons in 2010 was 
an  important  step  in  our  collective  fight  against  this 
form of organized crime.
The  holistic  approach,  predicated  on  components 
of prevention, protection, prosecution and partnership, 
continues to be a blueprint for concerted efforts at all 
levels. We need to forge a victim-centred approach and 
scale up efforts to identify and protect those in need of 
our  assistance.  International  resolve  and  commitment 
is  the  sine  qua  non  for  removing  the  bottlenecks  and 
obstacles in the proper implementation of the relevant 
laws  and  conventions.  The  provision  of  financial  and 
technical  support  to  developing  countries  can  help 
them to streamline processes, improve data-collection 
and sharing mechanisms, and implement projects at the 
grass-roots level.
Pakistan  has  adopted  a  range  of  legislative  and 
regulatory  measures.  We  have  drafted  a  national 
action  plan  for  combating  human  trafficking,  which 
is a comprehensive policy document on trafficking in 
persons.  We  are  currently  implementing  our  strategic 
framework  document  for  the  period  2016-2022.  In 
addition,  Pakistan  is  a  party  to  various  international 
instruments, including the United Nations Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime, 
the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the 
Traffic in Women and Children, and the 1957 Abolition 
of Forced Labour Convention.
There is evidence in some cases of a growing nexus 
between  transnational  organized  criminal  groups  and 
terrorist  groups,  which  is  a  cause  for  global  concern. 
Conflict  situations  provide  an  ideal  opportunity  and 
propitious  environment  for  such  unholy  alliances. 
To  effectively 
tackle  persistent  challenges  and 
emerging  trends,  we  should  continue  to  be  guided  by 
the  imperative  of  an  integrated  and  comprehensive 
approach  buttressed  by  a  long-term  political  and 
financial  commitment.  Coordination  and  cooperation 
among  various  stakeholders  is  needed  to  develop  a 
synergistic policy framework for countering this threat.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  convey  Pakistan’s 
appreciation for the ongoing work of the United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime, especially with respect to 
assisting  Member  States  in  countering  the  challenge 
of  trafficking  in  persons  and  in  providing  technical 
assistance  to  countries  and  personal  assistance  to  the 
victims of trafficking.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Guatemala.
Mr. Skinner-Klée (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
Guatemala  believes  that  it  is  only  through  dialogue 
and  the  exchange  of  information  and  best  practices 
that  we  can  articulate  a  comprehensive,  coordinated 
and  shared  response  by  the  States  of  origin,  transit 
and  destination  of  smuggled  migrants  or  victims  of 
human trafficking that will guarantee orderly, regular 
and secure migratory flows, ensure full respect for the 
human rights of migrants and place the person and his 
or her rights at the centre of all processes regardless of 
immigration status.
We  believe  that  the  theme  of  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”, 
gives us a framework to deliberate on the dangers that 
irregular migration poses to migrants, who are at risk of 
falling victim to appalling, unlawful acts. Similarly, and 
keeping in mind that the crime of trafficking in persons is 
dynamic and multifaceted, it is important to emphasize 
that a forum for dialogue such as the General Assembly 
is  the  appropriate  venue  for  promoting  cooperation 
17-30244
25/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
and  coordination  among  States,  in  particular  by 
strengthening and implementing instruments created to 
improve the detection, protection, care and repatriation 
of victims and support the prevention, prosecution and 
punishment of this crime.
Guatemala  has  made  progress  in  strengthening 
its  institutional  capacities  both  domestically  and  in 
terms of international legislation, while responding in 
a  differentiated  manner  to  the  rights  of  all  migratory 
groups  without  undermining  the  rights  of  the  most 
vulnerable, such as children and young people, women, 
persons  with  disabilities,  the  elderly  and  indigenous 
peoples, among other victimized groups. We also bear 
in mind that, in addition to ensuring the well-being of 
migrants and their families, it is necessary to safeguard 
all of their rights. Against that backdrop, my country 
can highlight the following progress.
In  terms  of  prevention,  Guatemala  was  the  first 
country in Central America to join the United Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime’s  international  campaign, 
having  defined  a  unified  strategy  to  fight  the  crime 
of  trafficking  in  persons  and  complying  with  our 
international  commitments  on  the  subject  in  terms 
of  domestic  legislation,  and  placing  the  issue  on 
our  national  agenda  in  order  to  generate  consensus 
and  oversee  the  launch  of  the  appropriate  initiatives. 
Moreover, as a part of our campaign to raise awareness 
and disseminate information, 26 radio broadcasts were 
made  in  Mayan  languages  on  eight  national  stations, 
in  addition  to  other  awareness-raising  campaigns 
launched to alert the population to this scourge.
In terms of detection, Guatemala has implemented 
the  Alba-Keneth  Early  Alert  System,  which  consists 
of  a  set  of  specific  actions  coordinated  among  public 
institutions  that  assist  us  locating  and  safeguarding 
minors who have been abducted or are missing, thereby 
reducing the risk of human trafficking, sexual slavery, 
forced labour and even of organ trafficking. Moreover, 
it  is  worth  noting  that  in  2016  the  Inter-Institutional 
Committee 
the 
Identification  Guide  for  Victims  of  Trafficking  in 
Persons  and  Victim  Reference  Form,  which  promote 
early detection of potential victims of trafficking and 
are  to  be  implemented  by  different  State  and  civil-
society institutions.
Trafficking 
against 
drafted 
In  terms  of  care  and  protection,  just  last  year 
our  agency  against  sexual  violence,  exploitation  and 
trafficking  in  persons  took  measures  to  strengthen 
comprehensive care for victims, promoting the use and 
taking advantage of the specialized temporary shelter 
infrastructure and strengthening care programmes that 
include  medical,  psychological  and  social  assistance 
as  well  as  support  for  rebuilding  lives,  technical  and 
vocational training and academic learning.
In  terms  of  prosecution  and  punishment,  in  2017 
the  State  has  sentenced  19  perpetrators  to  terms 
ranging from two to 28 years of imprisonment for cases 
involving  human  trafficking,  with  such  aggravating 
factors  as  labour  exploitation,  begging,  forced  labour 
or subjection to bondage.
Finally, we acknowledge with thanks the successful 
facilitation  of  negotiations  by  the  delegations  of 
the  State  of  Qatar  and  the  Kingdom  of  Belgium  that 
led  to  the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration  on 
the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons 
(resolution  72/1).  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  and 
political  will  to  take  decisive  measures  to  put  an  end 
to this scourge, which affects mainly children, young 
people and women.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Libya.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  This 
high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action 
to Combat Trafficking in Persons is being held at a time 
when  this  phenomenon,  a  grave  violation  of  human 
rights and dignity, is on the rise. It is evident that armed 
conflicts,  unemployment,  social  exclusion,  poverty 
and  the  devastation  caused  by  natural  disasters  are 
key factors leading to the flight of refugees, migrants, 
the  displaced  and  those  who  fall  into  the  hands  of 
merciless traffickers, whose exploitation of victims is 
without limit.
As  we  appraise  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  we 
should not only focus our attention on addressing this 
phenomenon and its repercussions but also examine the 
conditions  contributing  to  the  expansion  and  increase 
of trafficking networks and activities. In that regard, I 
would like to stress the following points.
First, the role of diplomacy needs to be enhanced 
in  order  to  prevent  armed  conflicts,  keep  them  from 
worsening  and  put  an  end  to  the  external  forces  that 
have fuelled many conflicts and led to the displacement 
26/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
and  suffering  of  human  beings.  Such  forces  create 
environments  conducive 
the  development  of 
rapacious criminal networks.
to 
Secondly,  we  must  support  the  efforts  of  poor 
and  developing  countries  aimed  at  fulfilling  their 
obligations within the framework of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, including fighting poverty, hunger 
and  unemployment  and 
improving  service-sector 
performance. That will encourage people not to leave 
their countries and fall victim to exploitation.
institutional  capacities 
Thirdly,  we  must  provide  the  assistance  needed 
to  build  human  and 
that 
will  enable  national  authorities  to  fight  trafficking 
networks,  prosecute  perpetrators  and  overcome 
required 
impunity.  Enhanced  cooperation 
to 
interests  are 
eradicate 
interconnected  and 
to 
modern telecommunication technologies.
these  networks,  whose 
is 
transcend  borders, 
thanks 
Fourthly,  international  solidarity  must  be  stepped 
up in order to provide fresh resources that respond to the 
need for shelters for refugees and migrants, particularly 
in  countries  unable  to  fulfil  their  obligations  in  this 
area. We must focus in particular on the situations of 
women  and  children  in  a  manner  that  respects  their 
rights and protects them from exploitation.
Fifthly,  we  must  establish  and 
implement 
programmes and activities that raise awareness of the 
risks of the phenomenon of trafficking in persons. We 
must  invest  resources  in  the  fight  against  trafficking 
in  persons  and  engage  eminent  personalities 
in 
our campaigns.
Sixthly, we must improve data collection, analysis, 
statistics  and  information  exchange  with  respect  to 
trafficking in persons, particularly in relation to natural 
disasters, since disasters contribute to increases in the 
numbers of migrants and refugees. Despite instability 
and  a  lack  of  resources  at  the  national  level,  the 
Libyan  coast  guard  has  managed  to  rescue  thousands 
of  migrants  trying  to  make  their  way  to  Europe.  The 
relevant authorities have now identified the trafficking 
networks and are bringing them to justice.
We enjoy bilateral cooperation with brotherly and 
friendly countries in addressing this phenomenon. We 
look  forward  to  cooperating  with  the  United  Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime in implementing a number 
of programmes and activities related to the fight against 
trafficking in persons.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of the United Kingdom.
Mr.  Allen  (United  Kingdom):  It  is  clear  that 
trafficking  in  persons  is  a  scourge  that  unites  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  Since  no  country 
is immune from this awful crime, it is right that every 
country is united in the shared commitment we made in 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  to  end 
forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking. 
Ensuring that the United Nations Global Plan of Action 
to Combat Trafficking in Persons helps deliver on this 
commitment  will  require  us  to  act  across  a  number 
of fronts. I would like to highlight four of them.
First, we must bring greater political attention to the 
issue of human trafficking. The hidden nature of this 
crime makes it too easy to ignore. As world leaders and 
their representatives gathered in New York last week, 
the  United  Kingdom  launched  a  call  to  action  to  end 
forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking. 
Its  statement  of  political  intent  explicitly  welcomed 
and  aligned  itself  very  closely  with  the  Global  Plan. 
Approximately 37 countries have endorsed the call, and 
I urge others to do the same.
Secondly,  every  country  should  develop  and 
implement  a  national  strategy  to  address  each  of  the 
key  elements  of  prosecution,  protection,  prevention 
and  partnerships.  The  United  Kingdom’s  approach  is 
underpinned  by  its  2014  modern-slavery  strategy.  To 
shed  light  on  the  scale  of  the  problem,  every  country 
could  also  consider  producing  a  prevalence  estimate 
and statistics on trafficking. In 2013, we estimated that 
there were up to 13,000 victims in the United Kingdom.
Thirdly, we must ensure that trafficking is stamped 
out  of  our  economies.  The  International  Labour 
Organization  estimates  that  forced  labour  generates 
$150 billion in illegal profits each year. We must better 
regulate  labour  policies  and  work  with  business  to 
eradicate  trafficking  from  supply  chains.  The  United 
Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act requires every business 
with global revenue of over $48 million to report on the 
actions  it  is  taking  in  that  regard.  Governments  must 
also address their own procurement practices.
Fourthly, our law-enforcement and criminal-justice 
systems need specialist capabilities. The latest report of 
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime made it 
17-30244
27/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
clear that the number of global convictions remains too 
low. The United Kingdom introduced a comprehensive 
legal  framework  in  2015,  and  we  are  now  seeing 
increasing numbers of convictions for the new offences 
it delineated.
Trafficking  is  a  development  issue.  It  is  also  a 
human  rights  issue  and  a  security  issue.  It  needs  a 
coherent  United  Nations  response,  but,  to  date,  we 
have  not  seen  enough  progress  made  in  addressing 
the scale and urgency of the problem. We need United 
Nations  agencies  to  cooperate  effectively  and  not 
compete  with  each  other  over  resources  and  turf.  We 
urge  the  Secretary-General  to  resolve  such  persistent 
challenges  because,  whether  we  describe  it  as  human 
trafficking, modern slavery or forced labour, we must 
stand together if the exploitation of human beings is to 
end. We have reviewed the Global Plan of Action, so let 
us now take action.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy  Permanent  Secretary  and  Acting  Permanent 
Secretary  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand.
Mr.  Srivihok  (Thailand):  Since  the  adoption  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons,  in  2010,  Thailand  has  made 
the  eradication  of  human  trafficking  a  priority  on  its 
national  agenda.  Strengthening  the  Global  Plan  of 
Action’s  “Four  Ps”  approach,  the  Thai  Government 
has  adopted  a  “4+1  P”  framework  that  comprises 
prosecution,  protection,  prevention,  partnership  and 
policy. For Thailand, policy is in fact the trunk of the 
tree that holds the branches of the other four Ps together.
First, in terms of policy, an amendment to the Thai 
Prevention  and  Suppression  of  Human  Trafficking 
Act  clarifies  our  definition  of  exploitation  to  include 
practices similar to slavery, forced labour or services, 
seizure of identification documents and debt bondage, 
in  line  with  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime.  That  ensures  that  all 
victims of trafficking are protected under Thai law.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  prosecution,  our  zero-
tolerance  approach  to  human  trafficking,  especially 
traffickers,  was  evident  again  recently  in  the  verdict 
reached  against  62  offenders  in  the  Rohingya  matter, 
where  sentences  of  up  to  94  years  for  Government 
officials were handed down.
Thirdly,  with  respect 
to  protection,  Thailand 
attaches  importance  to  effective  victim-protection 
measures  for  all  groups,  especially  vulnerable  ones. 
We  adhere  to  a  human  rights-based  approach  in  the 
interests of victims and provide for child- and gender-
sensitive protection.
Fourthly, with regard to prevention, we are working 
on  establishing  a  national  screening  mechanism  for 
undocumented immigrants, victims of trafficking and 
refugees.  Once  in  place,  it  will  effectively  screen  out 
those  who  do  not  need  assistance,  while  screening 
in  those  who  truly  do  need  protection.  Thailand  has 
also  signed  a  labour-cooperation  memorandum  of 
understanding with neighbouring countries to facilitate 
approximately  403,000  migrant  workers  from  four 
different countries be able to work legally in Thailand. 
We have also cooperated with the International Labour 
Organization  to  promote  and  implement  good-labour-
practices  programmes  in  the  fisheries  and  poultry 
sectors.  Furthermore,  a  draft  national  action  plan  on 
business  and  human  rights,  which  is  in  line  with  the 
United  Nations  Guiding  Principles  on  Business  and 
Human Rights, is also being developed.
strengthened 
public-private 
Finally, with regard to partnership, the Government 
has 
civil-society 
partnerships in various ways. Among many initiatives, 
a  memorandum  on  cooperation  in  preventing  and 
suppressing trafficking in persons was signed last year 
by more than 50 Government agencies and private-sector 
and civil-society organizations. Thailand believes that 
more  can  be  done.  We  have  to  step  up  our  efforts  to 
make  sure  that  trafficking  is  a  high-risk/no-reward 
business. We must also cultivate public empathy for the 
victims and give due consideration to the special needs 
of all vulnerable groups.
An  improved  data-collection  and  analysis  system 
is another factor that is essential for providing the right 
solutions in terms of prevention, protection, prosecution 
and  remedies.  In  that  regard,  partner  countries,  the 
United  Nations  and  its  relevant  agencies  are  in  a 
position  to  contribute,  as  they  have  the  resources  to 
help all States Members of the United Nations improve 
their  data  sets  and  analysis  at  the  aggregated  and 
disaggregated levels.
As we move forward with the Global Plan following 
the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration,  we  must 
strengthen cooperation with all stakeholders, including 
the  private  sector.  Their  roles  and  contributions  are 
28/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
invaluable  and  must  be  integrated  into  our  efforts  at 
all levels. The Bali Process Government and Business 
Forum,  launched  in  Perth,  Australia,  last  month,  is 
a  promising  initiative  that  should  be  fostered  and 
developed alongside domestic efforts in the same vein.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Argentina.
to 
the  allocated 
(Argentina) 
time 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
(spoke 
in 
Spanish):  Due 
limitations, 
this 
the  Argentine 
Republic’s statement, which is available in its entirety 
via PaperSmart.
is  a  summarized  version  of 
Argentina believes that the fight against trafficking 
in persons and forced labour should be holistic. It should 
include  multiple  actors  working  at  different  levels 
and  take  place  within  the  framework  of  the  defence 
and  promotion  of  human  rights.  This  perspective  is 
reflected  in  Argentina’s  policies  on  combating  the 
crime  of  trafficking  and  on  providing  assistance  to 
victims,  with  the  understanding  that  preventing  this 
crime is impossible without guaranteeing an inclusive 
society. The Government of President Macri has placed 
special  emphasis  on  promoting  a  gender  perspective, 
in  line  with  Sustainable  Development  Goal  5,  from 
a  multisectoral,  cross-cutting  and  federal  approach. 
Gender  equality  is  one  of  the  fundamental  objectives 
of  our  Government,  and  the  overall  empowerment  of 
women will contribute to the prevention of trafficking.
For Argentina, the United Nations Global Plan of 
Action against Trafficking in Persons is a fundamental 
tool  for  the  implementation  of  public  policies.  That 
is  why  we  welcomed  the  adoption  of  the  political 
declaration on the implementation of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action (resolution 72/1) at the beginning 
of this high-level meeting (see A/72/PV.24).
Argentina remains committed to combating human 
trafficking, which is the most extreme form of violence, 
by  engaging  at  the  multilateral  level  and  promoting 
national policies designed to eliminate the crime in the 
country.  From  a  human  rights  perspective,  Argentina 
protects the privacy and identity of victims of human 
trafficking and seeks to take measures to ensure their 
physical, psychological and social recovery. Argentina 
works  to  provide  victims  with  adequate  housing, 
counselling  and  information  in  various  languages,  as 
well as medical, psychological and material assistance. 
It also endeavours to provide victims — be they foreign 
or  domestic  —  with  employment  and  educational 
opportunities as well as adequate and accessible training.
The State is striving to encourage the reintegration 
of  victims  of  trafficking  and  labour  exploitation  into 
society, promote dignified work and, working in tandem 
with  the  private  sector,  establish  joint  mechanisms 
so  as  to  avoid  the  recurrence  of  such  crimes.  The 
objective is to avoid violating victims’ rights and their 
revictimization at all stages of the process. Argentina 
ensures  that  foreign  victims  are  given  the  option  of 
remaining  in  the  country,  filing  for  refugee  status 
or  returning  to  their  country  of  origin.  In  addition, 
under Argentine anti-trafficking law, victims will not 
be punished.
We  would  also  like  to  mention  Argentina’s  work 
in  the  context  of  the  Southern  Common  Market 
(MERCOSUR),  which  has  approached  the  matter  by 
adopting  a  regional  guide  on  the  early  detection  of 
transborder  human  trafficking  and  by  sponsoring  a 
campaign  entitled  “MERCOSUR  free  of  trafficking”, 
which is aimed at raising awareness of the crime.
The  Argentine  Republic  considers 
trafficking 
in  persons  to  be  a  complex  and  very  serious  form  of 
exploitation. We hope we can continue to work together 
with the rest of the international community in order to 
end an abuse that violates human rights and for which 
there must always be zero tolerance.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of delegation of the Republic of Colombia.
Ms. Mejía Vélez (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): We 
welcome  the  renewed  support  for  the  United  Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
and the fight against this terrible scourge, which affects 
almost all of us, in particular women and girls, as was 
illustrated  by  the  heart-wrenching  testimony  that  we 
heard  yesterday  (see  A/72/PV.24).  We  welcome  the 
political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Global Plan of Action (resolution 72/1), which, together 
with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  across  the  three  unambiguous  pillars  set  forth  in 
Sustainable Development Goals and targets 5.2, 8.7 and 
16.2, reaffirms our political commitment and provides 
us with a road map that my Government has embraced 
with a view to preventing and combating trafficking in 
persons and protecting and assisting its victims.
Colombia  considers  trafficking  in  persons  to  be 
an offshoot of transnational organized crime whereby 
17-30244
29/31
A/72/PV.25 
28/09/2017
numerous  countries  are  transformed  at  one  and  the 
same time into points of origin, transit and destination 
of victims, thereby making the prevention, investigation 
and prosecution of trafficking activities conducted by 
criminal  organizations  and  their  links  all  the  more 
difficult.  Trafficking  in  persons  is  an  international 
phenomenon with global consequences, which leads to 
serious human rights violations.
Unfortunately, my country is not exempt from this 
phenomenon.  Every  year,  the  national  Government 
identifies  and  assists  many  victims  of  the  crime  in 
its  very  various  forms,  including  sexual  exploitation, 
forced labour and begging on behalf of others. In the 
struggle against the phenomenon and in accordance with 
the provisions of the Global Plan of Action, Colombia is 
undertaking activities in three fundamental areas that I 
would like to mention.
First,  in  terms  of  prevention,  we  have  made 
progress  in  educating  children  and  adolescents  on 
how to exercise their human, sexual and reproductive 
rights so that they can make responsible, informed and 
autonomous decisions concerning their bodies and their 
own sexuality. Through this approach, we are dealing a 
forceful blow to human trafficking.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  investigation  and 
prosecution  component,  my  country  is  strengthening 
its  judicial  branch  through  specialized  training  in  the 
crime of human trafficking, while seeking to ensure that 
the competent authorities have a clear understanding of 
the phenomenon.
Thirdly,  assisting  victims  is  one  of  our  main 
objectives. We are striving to strengthen the processes 
whereby  assistance 
to  children  and 
adolescents  who  are  directly  or  indirectly  victimized 
by the crime.
is  delivered 
Those  actions  confirm  the  national  Government 
of  Colombia’s  commitment  and  resolve  in  combating 
human trafficking, as well as the progress it has made. 
The  complex  reality  of  the  issue,  however,  requires 
the  involvement  of  the  international  community  as  a 
whole, which is why we are also working closely with 
the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and 
the  International  Organization  for  Migration.  Indeed, 
eradicating the human-trafficking phenomenon once and 
for all requires our joint efforts and determined action.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Kenya.
Ms.  Mwangi  (Kenya):  We  thank  the  President 
for  convening  this  high-level  meeting  to  review  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  and  our 
collective efforts to combat human trafficking.
Human  trafficking  is  a  global  phenomenon  that 
affects  almost  every  country  in  the  world,  be  it  a 
country of origin, transit or destination for its victims. 
Persons  from  sub-Saharan  Africa  and  from  countries 
in conflict are especially vulnerable to being trafficked 
as  a  result  of  the  so-called  push  factors  for  human 
trafficking,  which  include  conflicts,  poverty,  the  lack 
of  economic  opportunities,  unemployment  and  low 
rates of education, as well as inequalities between and 
among countries. We may also need to consider whether 
there is a causal link between racism, bigotry, prejudice 
and human trafficking so as to craft effective legal and 
policy responses and address the unique vulnerabilities 
of victims.
Kenya  is  a  signatory  of  the  Protocol  to  Prevent, 
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially 
Women  and  Children,  supplementing 
the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime, to which it acceded in 2005. The Protocol was 
incorporated into Kenya’s domestic legislation in 2010 
through  the  promulgation  of  the  Counter-trafficking 
in Persons Act. In order to implement that legislation, 
an  advisory  committee  was  established  to  advise 
the  Government  on  inter-agency  activities  aimed  at 
combating trafficking in persons. The Committee was 
also given the mandate to enhance the implementation 
of preventive, protective and rehabilitative programmes 
for trafficked persons, among its other functions. The 
committee is also training key actors in the justice sector, 
including the police, judicial officers, investigators and 
prosecutors,  on  effective  ways  to  combat  trafficking 
using a multisectoral approach.
Kenya also adopted the Victims Protection Act with 
a view to protecting vulnerable victims, such as those 
who have been rescued from traffickers. The Act offers 
protection to any person in Kenya identified as a victim 
of trafficking and establishes a victims assistance fund. 
We  have  also  developed  a  national  plan  of  action  to 
combat  human  trafficking  and  promote  cooperation 
among various stakeholders from all sectors. The plan 
of  action  lays  the  groundwork  for  closer  regional  and 
international  cooperation  and  offers  a  coherent  road 
map for addressing the problems of human trafficking 
in Kenya.
30/31 
17-30244
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.25
In 2016, the Government developed the guidelines 
for  a  national  referral  mechanism  to  assist  victims  of 
human  trafficking.  The  mechanism  is  in  essence  a 
system geared towards identification, referrals, holistic 
support and assistance for the victims of trafficking.
For the fiscal year 2017-2018, the counter-trafficking 
in  persons  secretariat  received  $600,000  and  an 
additional $200,000 in order to fund the establishment 
of a shelter for victims. The Government has organized 
public-awareness campaigns on trafficking in persons, 
such as the one Kenya sponsored on 30 July 2017, World 
Day Against Trafficking in Persons.
In  2014,  the  Government  revoked  the  licenses  of 
more than 900 agencies that had been recruiting workers 
for  jobs  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Gulf  region.  It 
continues to vet recruitment agencies by requiring them 
to reapply for accreditation on an annual basis. We have 
also signed bilateral agreements with several countries 
to help ease the resettlement of Kenyan migrant workers 
and to address cases of abuse when they are reported. 
We  believe  that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, with its Sustainable Development Goals 
on trafficking in persons, provides the foundation for 
the actions that need to be taken to prevent and combat 
trafficking in persons and migrant smuggling.
The  Government  has  also 
initiated  various 
empowerment strategies with a view to improving the 
livelihoods of Kenyans by setting up a number of funds 
for  the  benefit  of  women,  young  people,  orphans  and 
persons with disabilities. It has also supported projects 
designed  to  address  unemployment.  Kenya  calls  for 
enhanced international cooperation, including in terms 
of capacity-building and technical assistance, in order 
to prevent and combat trafficking in persons.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
17-30244
31/31
