United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
35th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 October 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Brown 
(Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
conflict  situations,  owing  to  the  abuse  of  the  right 
of veto.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 74 (continued)
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/72/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/72/345)
Mr.  Yelchenko  (Ukraine):  I  would  like  to  join 
previous speakers in welcoming His Excellency Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  to  the  General  Assembly  and  in  thanking 
him  for  his  comprehensive  briefing  (see  A/72/PV.34) 
this morning.
Today’s  discussion  once  again  recognizes  the 
crucial  role  that  the  Court  plays  in  the  areas  of  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes  and  the 
interpretation  of  the  rules  of  international  law.  The 
impartiality  and  independence  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  explains  the  strong  demand  for  the 
Court  to  consider  complex  disputes  and  lays  a  solid 
foundation  for  respect  for  its  decisions.  Recently, 
multifaceted  issues  involving  international  relations 
previously untouched by the Court have been brought 
to its attention. This trend is very inspiring, especially 
given  the  Security  Council’s  occasional  inability  to 
reach  decisions  that  would  contribute  to  resolving 
The annual report of the Court (A/72/4) states that 
72  of  the  193  States  parties  to  its  Statute  have  now 
made  declarations  recognizing  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court  as  compulsory.  The  willingness  of  States  to 
make  respect  for  the  law  their  primary  consideration 
in  international  relations  has  a  determinant  effect  on 
how  the  Court’s  decisions  are  implemented.  Ukraine 
supports the further expansion of the jurisdiction of the 
Court to cover a wide range of legal disputes that may 
arise between States.
Given  that  Article  33  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  envisages  an  obligation  to  settle  any 
international dispute peacefully, Ukraine actively uses 
the  mechanisms  provided  by  international  courts  and 
tribunals  to  settle  existing  disputes,  protect  human 
rights  and  fight  against  impunity.  The  International 
Court of Justice is one of the main tools in this regard. 
Accordingly, Ukraine initiated proceedings in the Court 
against the Russian Federation in the case concerning 
the  Application  of  the  International  Convention  for 
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and of 
the International Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination  (Ukraine  v.  Russian 
Federation). On 19 April, the Court delivered an order 
on  Ukraine’s  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures in the case, stating that the Russian Federation 
must
“refrain from maintaining or imposing limitations 
on the ability of the Crimean Tatar community to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-35142 (E)
*1735142*
A/72/PV.35 
26/11/2017
conserve  its  representative  institutions,  including 
the Mejlis ... and ensure the availability of education 
in the Ukrainian language”
and that
“[b]oth  [p]arties  shall  refrain  from  any  action 
which might aggravate or extend the dispute before 
the Court or make it more difficult to resolve”.
There is no doubt that the aforementioned order plays 
an important role in preventing irreparable harm by the 
Russian  Federation  to  the  human  rights  of  Ukrainian 
citizens while this case is pending.
Failure  to  comply  with  the  Court’s  decisions 
is  recognized  as  an  internationally  wrongful  act,  a 
breach  of  various  obligations  arising  ex  contract  and 
a  duty  imposed  by  customary  international  law.  We 
believe that cases of non-compliance with the Court’s 
decisions must be thoroughly addressed by the United 
Nations  system  so  as  to  find  a  way  to  compel  States 
to implement the Court’s decisions in good faith. It is 
important to recall that the San Francisco Conference 
considered  the  possibility  of  qualifying  a  refusal  to 
comply  with  the  decision  of  the  Court  as  an  act  of 
aggression.  We  therefore  strongly  believe  that  only 
full  implementation  by  the  Russian  Federation  of  the 
Court’s  order  will  demonstrate  that  country’s  respect 
for  the  Court’s  judgments  as  well  as  its  obligations 
under international law.
Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance  of  the  voice  of  the  United  Nations  in  this 
situation,  which  is  clearly  reflected  in  the  report  of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR)  entitled  “Situation  of 
human rights in the temporarily occupied Autonomous 
Republic  of  Crimea  and 
the  city  of  Sevastopol 
(Ukraine),” released on 25 September 2017. According 
to the report,
“[t]he  human  rights  situation 
in  Crimea  has 
significantly deteriorated since the beginning of its 
occupation by the Russian Federation”.
The  report  also  contains  recommendations  for  the 
Russian Federation designed to ensure implementation 
of the measures set forth in the Court order. As we see 
it,  six  months  after  the  issuance  of  the  Court  order, 
the Russian Federation continues to neglect its duty to 
implement all elements of the order.
In the light of the ongoing deterioration of the human 
rights  situation  in  Crimea,  Ukraine  has  submitted  a 
revised  draft  resolution  for  the  consideration  of  the 
Third  Committee  on  the  “Situation  of  human  rights 
in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of 
Sevastopol,  Ukraine”  (A/C.3/72/L.42),  based  on  last 
year’s resolution 71/205 and relevant recommendations 
of the OHCHR. Ukraine would greatly appreciate the 
valuable support of all delegations and would welcome 
more sponsors for the draft.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
judicial work of the Court is of utmost importance in 
promoting and strengthening the rule of law as part of 
common efforts to protect the established international 
order.  I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  once  again  to 
thank  President  Abraham  and  his  fellow  judges  for 
their efficient efforts in upholding the role of the Court.
Mr.  Celarie  Landaverde  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We wish to begin our statement by thanking 
the President of the International Court of Justice, His 
Excellency  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  presenting  the 
report  of  the  Court  (A/72/4),  which  details  both  the 
administrative  and  judicial  activities  undertaken  by 
the principal international organ for resolving disputes 
between  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  over 
the last year. In this regard, my delegation notes with 
satisfaction  that,  during  this  period,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  again  worked  intensively  in  the 
jurisdictional sphere, issuing four final judgments and 
14  orders  in  a  number  of  cases  involving  contentious 
procedures and requests for advisory opinions.
All  of  the  foregoing  proves  that  the  Court  plays 
a  far-reaching  and  fundamental  role  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  in  large  part  because  Member 
States  can  bring  disputes  in  a  wide  range  of  matters 
within the sphere of international law, including human 
rights,  environmental  damage,  the  preservation  of 
natural  resources,  international  reparations  and  other 
forms of damages and State immunity, to name but a 
few,  making  the  Court  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the  United  Nations.  Its  role  in  the  maintenance  and 
promotion of the rule of law at the international level 
is momentous, contributing, through its judgments and 
advisory  opinions,  to  the  strengthening  to  the  rule  of 
law  itself.  It  is  also  the  only  international  tribunal  of 
universal character with dual general jurisdiction.
It is therefore important to remember that one of the 
most important foundational principles of international 
2/12 
17-35142
26/11/2017 
A/72/PV.35
law  is  the  obligation  of  all  States  to  resolve  their 
international disputes by all possible peaceful means, 
including  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  This 
obligation  has  led  over  the  years  to  States’  trust  in 
the  Court,  which  is  reflected  in  the  number  of  cases 
submitted to it for adjudication; some are still pending.
Despite  this  obligation,  however,  and  despite  the 
establishment  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust  Fund 
to Assist States in the Settlement of Disputes through 
the International Court of Justice, it cannot be denied 
that while access to the peaceful settlement of disputes 
exists  for  all  States  in  theory,  the  ability  to  do  so  is 
not  the  same  for  all  the  countries  in  the  international 
community,  owing  to  the  fact  that  in  recent  years 
the  costs  of  presenting  claims  or  defending  national 
interests  in  controversies  before  the  Court  have  been 
increasing, thus making access to international justice 
more  expensive.  We  therefore  believe  that  we  should 
take  into  account  that  the  fact  that  States  with  low 
tax  revenues  or  high  debts  are  impeded  from  gaining 
access international justice in any form, which makes it 
necessary for us to find solutions and adopt measures to 
address this issue, which could undoubtedly affect the 
membership of the Organization in one way or another.
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  the  increase  in  the 
Court’s workload should attract the budget allocations 
needed  so  that  the  Court  can  resolve  matters  and 
provide rulings in a timely manner. We also believe that 
professional positions within the Court should be held 
by  people  from  across  the  various  geographic  areas 
and legal systems of the world and in adherence to the 
principle of gender parity.
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that  over 
the  past  year  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has 
published  and  distributed  its  work  in  French  and 
English. We also note that the Court’s website has been 
revamped and is now viewable in French and English. 
Nevertheless,  we  would  like  to  see  all  these  official 
publications disseminated in the six official languages 
of  the  United  Nations,  so  as  to  raise  even  greater 
awareness as to international law and the work of the 
Court,  particularly  among  civil  servants,  lawyers  and 
other legal experts, university professors and teachers.
In addition, we note with satisfaction and welcome 
the activities undertaken, both in New York and at the 
Palais  des  Nations  in  Geneva,  to  mark  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
Such celebratory activities invite us to remember that 
the  United  Nations  was  conceived  as  an  institution 
whose  primary  vocation  was  to  maintain  peace  and 
the international order. Indeed, one of the fundamental 
pillars of the Organization is the peaceful resolution of 
disputes through the International Court of Justice.
Finally,  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador  wishes  to 
express its commitment to the work of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  will  support  it  in  its  efforts  to 
maintain  peace  and  international  security.  We  also 
pay  a  just  tribute  to  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
constitution of the highest jurisdictional body, as well 
as  to  one  of  the  most  distinguished,  universal  and 
illustrious  Salvadorans,  the  jurist  and  diplomat  José 
Gustavo  Guerrero,  who  was  the  first  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
Ms.  Dagher  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 
me to thank the President of the International Court of 
Justice,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham,  for  the 
report  of  the  Court  (A/72/4),  which  provides  us  with 
important  information  on  the  activities  of  the  Court 
for  the  past  judicial  year.  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did 
not  acknowledge  the  work  done  by  the  members  and 
personnel of the Court.
Lebanon, deeply committed to the principles of law 
and the ideals of international justice, wishes in its turn 
to underline the major and pre-eminent role of the Court 
in the promotion of international peace and security. It 
should be recalled here that the Preamble of the Charter 
of the United Nations states that we, the peoples of the 
United Nations, are determined to
international 
“establish  conditions  under  which  justice  and 
respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from  treaties 
and  other  sources  of 
law  can 
be maintained”.
In that respect, the Court, as the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  has  made  every  effort 
to  maintain  the  primacy  of  international  law  and 
consolidate the ideal of the rule of law. For more than 
seven decades it has contributed, through its more than 
300 judgments, including orders and advisory opinions, 
to the harmonization of the norms of international law, 
which  leads  to  greater  predictability  and  clarity  of 
those norms. The jurisprudence of the Court is also an 
essential  contribution  in  that  it  specifies  the  content 
of the fundamental principles of international law and 
works towards its development.
17-35142
3/12
A/72/PV.35 
26/11/2017
Moreover, the increase in the number of cases before 
the Court is also a sign of its vitality. Indeed, it reflects 
the confidence that States place in that organ and their 
willingness  to  settle  their  differences  peacefully.  In 
addition, faced with a body of international treaties that 
tend to expand and diversify, we can only rejoice in the 
Court’s  productivity,  which  demonstrates  its  capacity 
to respond to its new challenges.
Let  me  also  highlight  the  special  importance  for 
Lebanon of the use of both languages, namely, French 
and  English,  in  the  work  of  the  Court,  in  accordance 
with Article 39 of its Statute. That linguistic diversity, 
which reflects a legal tradition and culture, promotes, 
through the use of both languages, a greater coherence 
of the Court’s jurisprudence.
Let us recall that what distinguishes the Court most 
is its universal nature, since all States Members of the 
United  Nations  are  ipso  facto  parties  to  its  Statute. 
Hence  the  need  to  always  be  mindful,  as  set  out  in 
Article  9  of  the  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, to have a Court composed of judges such that
“in  the  body  as  a  whole  the  representation  of  the 
main forms of civilization and of the principal legal 
systems of the world should be assured”.
A  Court  with  a  more  balanced  composition  would 
be  a  Court  that  would  gain  even  more  legitimacy 
and effectiveness.
Finally, it is also in that perspective that Lebanon 
has  nominated  the  current  Permanent  Representative, 
Mr.  Nawaf  Salam,  as  Judge  for  the  period  2018-2027, 
and is confident that with his academic and professional 
experience,  Ambassador  Salam  will  contribute  to  the 
laudable work of the Court.
Mr. Itegboje (Nigeria): I thank you, Mr. President, 
for  convening  this  important  meeting  to  consider  the 
report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/72/4). 
Nigeria is grateful to the President of the Court, Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  for  his  comprehensive  report  and 
insightful remarks (see A/72/PV.34).
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  earlier  by  the  representatives  of  Algeria  and 
Iran on behalf of the Group of African States and the 
Non-Aligned Movement, respectively (see A/72/PV.34).
The International Court of Justice is an important 
part of the United Nations mechanisms for the promotion 
of the rule of law and the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security  through  the  administration  of 
international  justice.  To  be  sure,  the  Court  has  made 
tremendous  contributions  to  the  promotion  of  and 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level. 
Furthermore,  over  the  years,  the  Court  has  continued 
to play a vital role in the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security  through  its  rulings  and  judicial 
notices. It has also contributed remarkably to the corpus 
of international jurisprudence.
We  have  reviewed  the  Court’s  report  before  us, 
covering the period 1 August 2016 to 31 July 2017. We 
have taken note of the judicial and other activities of the 
Court  during  the  reporting  period,  and  we  commend 
the Court for the measures it has taken in recent years 
to  enhance  its  efficiency,  which  has  facilitated  the 
effective  management  of  its  increasing  workload.  In 
particular, we note that during the period under review, 
the Court experienced a high level of judicial activity, 
which included the delivery of judgments in Marshall 
Islands v. Pakistan, Marshall Islands v. India, Marshall 
Islands v. United Kingdom, and Somalia v. Kenya. There 
were  public  hearings  and  a  request  for  an  advisory 
opinion.  The  diversity  of  those  cases  illustrates  the 
universal character of the jurisdiction of the Court.
In addition, it is significant that the cases submitted 
to the Court involved a wide variety of subject matters, 
including  territorial  and  maritime  disputes,  consular 
rights, environmental damage and conservation of living 
resources,  human  rights,  international  responsibility 
and compensation for harm and the immunity of States. 
That  variety  of  subject  matter  represents  the  general 
character  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and  attests 
to  its  relevance  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  and  as  a  mechanism  for  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes.
We also note that during the period under review, 
the  General  Assembly  requested  the  Court  to  render 
an  advisory  opinion  on  the  legal  consequences  of  the 
separation  of  the  Chagos  archipelago  from  Mauritius 
in 1965. We hope the Court’s decision would facilitate 
the  early  settlement  of  the  territorial  dispute  between 
Britain and Mauritius.
Nigeria  notes  with  appreciation  the  launch  of 
the  Court’s  new  website.  We  believe  that  the  website 
will enhance the experience of all visitors, as well as 
meet  the  needs  of  the  legal,  diplomatic  and  academic 
communities.  Similarly,  it  will  ease  the  work  of 
members of the press. Students will also benefit from 
4/12 
17-35142
26/11/2017 
A/72/PV.35
the  huge  amount  of  information  and  knowledge  to 
be accessed.
Nigeria will continue to abide by its commitment to 
the promotion of international justice and the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  as  a  State  party  to  the  Statute 
of the International Court of Justice. By accepting the 
Court’s ruling on our border dispute with Cameroon, we 
have demonstrated our conviction and our commitment 
to  the  precepts  and  principles  of  the  Court.  We 
encourage all Member States to continue to offer their 
support  to  the  activities  of  the  Court  in  its  efforts  to 
promote international justice and the rule of law.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): The Plurinational State of Bolivia 
expresses its gratitude for the report of the International 
Court  of  Justice  (A/72/4)  corresponding  to  the  period 
from  1  August  2016  to  31  July  2017.  The  report  was 
presented  by  the  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice, Judge Ronny Abraham (see A/72/PV.34), to 
whom  we  express  our  full  support  for  the  important 
work that he carries out.
Bolivia,  as  a  peace-loving  State  and  promoter  of 
the  culture  of  peace,  and  as  a  State  whose  primary 
vocation is to uphold international law, adheres to the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  fundamental  pillars  pursuant  to 
which the International Court of Justice discharges its 
functions. The universal jurisdiction of the Court and 
the work that it has been doing in the 71 years since its 
creation  demonstrate  that  it  looks  to  ensure  dialogue 
among  neighbouring  and  sisterly  nations,  calling  for 
peaceful  means  always  to  be  set  above  the  use  of  the 
force,  aggression,  military  incursions  and  unilateral 
actions.  In  that  light,  the  work  of  the  Court,  both  in 
its  jurisdictional  and  advisory  capacities,  is  crucial 
to  guarantee  and  maintain  international  peace  in 
accordance with the principles of the Charter.
Bolivia takes due note of the jurisdictional activities 
of the Court. We note the new cases brought before the 
Court, particularly the General Assembly’s request, in 
resolution 71/292, of 22 June, for an advisory opinion on 
the legal consequences of the separation of the Chagos 
archipelago from the Republic of Mauritius in 1965.
It  is  noteworthy  that  after  an  extended  period  of 
time,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  once  again 
taking  up  its  advisory  role.  Such  a  role  is  a  peaceful 
and  preventive  way  to  deal  with  disputes,  and  it 
contributes  significantly  to  States’  fulfillment  of 
the  obligation  to  settle  their  international  disputes 
peacefully. The principle of the peaceful settlement of 
disputes — recognized by the Declaration on Principles 
of  International  Law  concerning  Friendly  Relations 
and  Cooperation  among  States  and  by  the  Manila 
Declaration on the Peaceful Settlement of International 
Disputes  —  remains  valid  among  the  international 
community at a time when we are facing new and more 
complex challenges.
It is important to underscore the fact that this year 
the Court will renew a third of its body of judges through 
the election procedure established by the Charter and 
the Statute of the Court. Through that procedure persons 
of the highest moral and professional character will be 
elected, but also it will form a Court that is essentially 
independent of the countries of origin of those selected. 
It  is  therefore  crucial  that,  in  the  Court  as  a  whole, 
the  main  civilizations  and  the  principal  legal  systems 
of  the  world  should  be  represented,  as  established  by 
the  Statute  of  the  Court,  and  for  that  there  must  be 
equitable geographical representation among members. 
That  aspect  merits  special  attention  by  the  Court  and 
by  the  States  that  turn  to  it,  because  multiple  legal 
orders interact in it, as a reflection of a more globalized 
world,  multipolar,  pluralized  and  more  complex.  The 
true international nature of the Court is found precisely 
in  its  exercising  jurisdiction  with  understanding  of  a 
more universal and dynamic international law, with a 
tribunal that overcomes the antiquated tradition of only 
two Eurocentric court systems.
Upon 
reading 
the 
report  and 
the 
pre-eminence  of  cases  originating  in  Latin  America, 
it  becomes  evident  that  more  judges  from  that  region 
are  needed  and  that  consideration  should  be  given  to 
introducing Spanish as one of the official languages of 
the Court.
seeing 
We  have  taken  due  note  of  the  increase  in  the 
effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  Court’s  tasks  with 
the use of the new technologies, as well as of its work 
of dissemination and integration to promote the value 
of  international  law  in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
international security. Without a doubt, that contributes 
to  better  understanding  and  performance  with  regard 
to  the  challenges  entailed  by  the  evolving  agendas 
and  the  complex  cases  that  are  brought  to  the  Court. 
However,  it  is  the  proven  quality  of  its  decisions,  its 
proven  adherence  to  international  law,  evidence  and 
reasoning, its demonstrated probity and independence 
17-35142
5/12
A/72/PV.35 
26/11/2017
that  are  considered  to  be  its  main  contribution  and 
greatest value to the community of nations.
We  also  take  note  of  the  scope  of  the  economic 
and  budgetary  requirements  described  in  the  report, 
and  we  value  their  appropriate  use  according  to  what 
is  reported.  With  that  understanding,  we  express  our 
readiness to support all decisions that are necessary to 
satisfy those needs.
Bolivia  has  two  cases  before  the  Court.  We  are  a 
plaintiff in one and a defendant in another. We accept 
and  respect  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and  have 
confidence  that  its  decisions  will  contribute  to  the 
positive  resolution  of  the  disputes  that  are  separating 
two  neighbouring  and  brotherly  nations.  As  President 
Evo  Morales  did,  we  reiterate  to  the  Assembly  that 
Bolivia believes in the peaceful settlement of disputes 
between States in order to achieve the integration of our 
peoples. That is the path that we have chosen to follow 
as firm supporters of international law. The Court has 
a long way to go along the path of achievement. There 
are cases that peoples and States bring to The Hague in 
the hope of receiving justice, reparation and adequate 
and reasonable settlements, as well as in the hope for a 
new beginning with bigger and better opportunities for 
all parties.
In  conclusion,  Bolivia  reaffirms  that  it  upholds 
the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts.  We  reiterate  our 
faithful adherence to the principles of international law 
and to the provisions of the Charter. It is not force that 
bestows rights; rather, it is the cause of law, justice and 
legislation that repairs inequality and injustice.
Mr.  Sharma  (India):  I  begin  by  thanking  Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice, for his comprehensive report on the judicial 
activities  of  the  Court  for  the  period  from  August 
2016  to  July  2017  (see  A/72/PV.34).  I  thank  him  and 
Vice-President Yusuf for guiding the work of the Court.
The  Court  is  entrusted  with  the  task  of  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes between States, which 
is fundamental for the fulfilment of one of the purposes 
of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. From its first sitting 
in  April  1946  until  July  2017,  the  Court  has  been 
seized  of  168  cases  and  has  delivered  more  than  120 
judgments and 27 advisory opinions. We acknowledge 
that the Court has fulfilled the task of settling disputes 
between  the  States  peacefully  and  admirably  and 
thus  has  acquired  a  well-deserved  reputation  as  an 
institution that maintains the highest legal standards in 
accordance with its mandate under the Charter of the 
United Nations and its Statute, which is an integral part 
of the Charter.
The  report  of  the  Court,  contained  in  document 
A/72/4,  illustrates  the  importance  that  States  attach 
to  the  Court  and  the  confidence  they  have  in  it.  The 
importance  of  the  Court  is  evident  from  the  number, 
nature  and  variety  of  cases  that  it  deals  with  and  its 
ability  in  dealing  with  complex  aspects  of  public 
international  law.  The  diverse  geographical  spread 
of  cases  is  illustrative  of  the  universal  character  of 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  Furthermore,  the  Court 
has  not  lost  sight  of  adapting  its  working  methods  to 
respond  to  the  increased  workload  and  complexity  of 
the cases submitted to it.
The Court plays an important role in maintaining 
the  rule  of  law  throughout  the  world.  Everything  the 
Court  does  is  aimed  at  promoting  and  reinforcing 
the  rule  of  law  through  its  judgments  and  advisory 
opinions.  The  judgments  delivered  by  the  Court  have 
played  an  important  role  in  the  interpretation  and 
clarification  of  the  rules  of  international  law,  as  well 
as in the progressive development and codification of 
international law. In performing its judicial functions, 
the Court has remained highly sensitive to the political 
realities  and  sentiments  of  States  while  acting  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  its  own  Statute  and  other  rules  of 
international law.
To  date,  17  contentious  cases  are  pending  before 
the  Court.  During  the  judicial  year  2016-2017,  the 
Court  delivered  judgment  in  four  cases.  These  cases 
involve complex factual and legal issues, inter alia, in 
the areas of maritime delimitation, rights of navigation, 
territorial  sovereignty  and  the  environment.  During 
the past judicial year, the Court handed down several 
orders and held public hearings in five cases. One such 
case was brought by India, on which it held hearings on 
the  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional  measures 
submitted by India.
The Court has a dual jurisdiction, wherein it decides, 
in accordance with international law, disputes of a legal 
nature  that  are  submitted  to  it  by  States  and  renders 
advisory  opinions  on  legal  questions  at  the  request 
of  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations  or  specialized 
agencies  authorized  to  make  such  requests.  During 
the  2016-2017  period,  the  Court  received  a  request 
6/12 
17-35142
26/11/2017 
A/72/PV.35
for  an  advisory  opinion.  On  22  June  the  Assembly 
adopted  resolution  71/292,  in  which,  by  referring  to 
Article  65  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  the  Assembly 
requested the Court to render an advisory opinion on 
the legal consequences of the separation of the Chagos 
Archipelago from Mauritius in 1965. That function of 
the  Court  adds  to  its  important  role  in  clarifying  and 
expounding key principles of international law.
We appreciate the efforts of the Court in ensuring 
the greatest possible global awareness of its decisions 
through  its  publications,  multimedia  offerings  and 
website,  which  now  feature  the  entire  jurisprudence 
of  the  Court  as  well  as  that  of  its  predecessor,  the 
Permanent Court of International Justice. These sources 
provide very useful information for States wishing to 
submit a potential dispute to the Court.
Finally, India wishes to reaffirm its strong support 
for the Court and acknowledges the importance that the 
international  community  attaches  to  its  work.  That  is 
also evident, as far as India is concerned, from the fact 
that India has renominated Judge Bhandari for election 
to the Court to make his services available for the cause 
of international justice.
Mr. Trujillo (United States of America): The United 
States would like to thank President Abraham for the 
comprehensive report to the General Assembly on the 
work of the International Court of Justice (A/72/4) over 
the course of the past year. The International Court of 
Justice plays an important role in adjudicating disputes 
among  Member  States,  giving  States  that  so  consent 
a  forum  in  which  to  settle  their  disputes  peacefully 
in  accordance  with  Article  33  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, the International Court of Justice has, for more 
than seven decades, played an important role in pursuit 
of the overarching goal, as set forth in the Charter,
international 
“to  establish  conditions  under  which  justice  and 
respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from  treaties 
and  other  sources  of 
law  can 
be maintained”.
As  in  years  past,  we  see  States  increasingly 
turning to the Court and to other international judicial 
tribunals  to  resolve  their  disputes.  The  Court  has,  in 
turn,  increased  its  efforts  to  become  more  responsive 
to  States,  including  by  taking  steps  to  increase  its 
efficiency  and  to  refine  its  procedures  and  working 
methods to keep pace with the rapidly changing times. 
By  providing  a  trusted  channel  for  States  to  resolve 
some  disputes  upfront  and  helping  to  defuse  others 
before  they  escalate,  the  Court  continues  to  fulfil  its 
Chapter XIV mandate.
The  United  States  would  also  like  to  commend 
the Court for continued public outreach to educate key 
sectors  of  society  about  the  role  of  the  Court  and  to 
promote a better understanding of public international 
law.  Those  efforts  demonstrate  the  Court’s  enduring 
commitment to advancing the rule of law.
In conclusion, we are pleased to join so many others 
today  in  extending  our  thanks  and  commendation  to 
President  Abraham,  his  fellow  members  of  the  Court 
and all Court staff for their professionalism and their 
dedication to promoting international justice.
Mr.  Ly 
(spoke 
(Senegal) 
in  French):  My 
delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made  by 
the  representative  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of African States and by the representative of Iran on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement (see A/72/PV.34).
In  its  national  capacity,  my  delegation,  like  those 
who have spoken before me, thanks and congratulates 
President  Ronny  Abraham  for  his  report  on  the 
activities of the International Court of Justice (A/72/4), 
which provides a broad overview of the developments 
in the treatment of the various cases pending before it 
and especially the content of the decisions it has handed 
down. Through the President, we wish to express our 
gratitude to all those who contribute to the success of 
the action of the Court on a daily basis.
It must be said that today’s meeting is, first and as 
always, an important moment enabling us to reflect on 
the Court’s action in the quest for international peace and 
security through law, as demonstrated by the increase in 
cases brought before the Court in recent years. It is also 
an opportunity to examine our possibilities in terms of 
strengthening our common commitment to promoting 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  primacy  of  law.  Finally,  it  is 
an opportunity to exchange views on complementarity 
and  to  find  harmony  in  the  simultaneous  exercise  by 
the General Assembly and the Court of their respective 
functions in favour of international stability.
My delegation renews its support for the Court in 
the fulfilment of its mission, which is none other than 
to  work  for  the  peaceful  settlement,  in  accordance 
with  the  principles  of  justice  and  international  law, 
17-35142
7/12
A/72/PV.35 
26/11/2017
of  international  disputes  that  could  threaten  peace.  It 
is  also  the  responsibility  of  the  Court,  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  to  resolve  any 
legal issues that may arise between parties to a dispute. 
The resolution of those legal issues is often important 
and  sometimes  decisive  in  the  political  settlement  of 
the dispute.
Equally 
the  Court 
constantly 
the  development  of 
international  law,  the  legal  basis  of  our  shared  desire 
for  a  shared  life  in  a  reconciled  world.  Through  its 
judgments  and  advisory  opinions,  the  Court,  while 
illuminating  and  fuelling  doctrine,  also  participates 
in the dissemination of legal science by ensuring wide 
publicity of its decisions throughout the world. In that 
regard, respect for and implementation of its decisions 
must always be ensured.
jurisprudence 
to 
through 
contributes 
its 
My  delegation  reiterates  that  the  credibility  and 
effectiveness of the Court’s work will largely depend on 
its ability to take into account, in its functioning, all legal 
systems,  in  addition  to  greater  multilingualism.  That 
applies equally to the coherence of its jursiprudence.
Finally,  my  delegation  hopes  that  the  Security 
Council and the Court will continue to work in a spirit of 
ever closer cooperation and ever stronger collaboration 
in  order  to  win  the  permanent  battle  for  peace  and 
security  on  our  planet.  in  line  with  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international  law,  which  are  the  essential  foundations 
of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world.
Ms. Telalian (Greece): Greece wishes to express its 
appreciation to the President of the International Court 
of  Justice,  His  Excellency  Judge  Ronny  Abraham, 
for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/72/4)  on  the  judicial 
activities of the Court over the past 12 months.
Greece  also  takes  the  opportunity  to  commend 
the Court, as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations, for its constant role in promoting the peaceful 
settlement of international disputes in conformity with 
the principles of justice and international law and thus 
contributing to the furtherance of the overall objectives 
set out in the Charter of the United Nations.
The International Court of Justice has a prominent 
position  in  the  contemporary  system  of  international 
justice as the only international court with both general 
and universal jurisdiction in inter-State disputes, since 
it is open to all States and may, subject to the provisions 
of the Charter and its Statute, decide on any question of 
international law. The increasing caseload of the Court, 
the complexity and diversity of the cases pending before 
it and the fact that those cases involve States from all 
continents provide clear evidence of the trust placed in 
the Court by States and the high level of expectations 
surrounding  its  members  as  the  guarantors  of  respect 
for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  principles  of  impartiality 
and independence. As a matter of fact, pending cases 
cover  the  most  varied  aspects  of  international  law, 
ranging  from  classical  areas,  such  as  the  law  of  the 
sea,  diplomatic  and  consular  relations  and  the  law  of 
State responsibility, to more contemporary ones, such 
as  international  environmental  law,  which  has  gained 
growing attention in recent years.
Greece  has  actively  demonstrated  its  confidence 
in  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  its  strong 
commitment to the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes by submitting, as early as 1994, a declaration of 
acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, 
under  Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  its  Statute.  After 
reviewing that declaration in order to take account of 
new developments, Greece recently decided to reaffirm 
its confidence in the International Court of Justice by 
submitting a new declaration, in 2015.
Furthermore, it is of the utmost importance for us 
to emphasize the contribution of the Court in upholding 
and promoting the rule of law. Since its establishment, 
the  Court  has  developed  a  robust  case  law,  which 
has  greatly  contributed  to  both  legal  certainty  and 
the  promotion  and  clarification  of  international  law, 
including  through  the  confirmation  and  identification 
of  rules  of  customary  international  law  and  jus 
cogens  norms,  the  development  of  the  law  of  the  sea 
and  the  rules  governing  maritime  delimitation,  as 
well  as  the  establishment  of  principles  applicable  to 
State responsibility.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  address  the  role  that 
the International Court of Justice can play in conflict 
prevention  by  facilitating  the  process  of  preventive 
diplomacy  through  the  delivery  of  advisory  opinions 
on  legal  questions  referred  to  it  by  duly  authorized 
United  Nations  organs  and  agencies.  The  advisory 
opinions rendered by the Court, although not binding 
per  se  and  limited  in  number  in  comparison  to  its 
judgments  in  contentious  cases,  have  nevertheless 
been  generally  recognized  as  carrying  legal  weight 
and moral authority. However, in our view, recourse to 
the  Court’s  advisory  function  should  not  circumvent 
8/12 
17-35142
26/11/2017 
A/72/PV.35
the  fundamental  principle  that  a  State  shall  not  have 
its  disputes  submitted  to  judicial  settlement  without 
its consent.
Greece once again wishes to express to the Court 
its  appreciation  for  its  valuable  contribution  to  the 
consolidation  of  world  peace  and  justice  through  its 
jurisprudence over the years.
Mr.  Rosselli  (Uruguay)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Uruguay  thanks  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
and  its  President,  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  his 
presentation (see A/72/PV.34).
The  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  one  of  the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  is  the  body 
charged  with  imparting  justice  in  this  area,  not  only 
between  those  Member  States  that  have  accepted  its 
jurisdiction, but also for those that accede to it of their 
own volition before a concrete case, and in accordance 
with what is provided in Article 93 of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
Since  the  pacific  solution  of  controversies  is  one 
of  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  the  Court 
and its Statute are intrinsic to the system of the United 
Nations system and have been since its conception. Its 
fundamental role in the peaceful resolution of disputes 
is duly valued. Its judgments are points of reference in 
international law. They shape doctrine and are cited by 
courts and other tribunals in their own judgments.
The  Court  has  seen  an  expansion  of  the  scope  of 
the matters submitted for hearing and resolution, as its 
jurisprudence is important in terms of of international 
humanitarian law and international human rights law, 
taking into account in its judgments citations from other 
courts,  such  as  the  Inter-American  Court  of  Human 
Rights.  That  shows  the  development  of  international 
law and its progress and growth in the past 20 years, 
as indicated by Judge Abraham in his report (A/72/4). 
The Court has a fundamental role in the maintenance 
and promotion of the rule of law, contributing through 
both  its  judgments  and  its  advisory  opinions  to  the 
maintenance of peace and security and the strengthening 
and development of international law.
Uruguay has been and is a defender of the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  incorporating  the  jurisdiction 
of the International Court of Justice in all the treaties 
ratified by the Republic in which there was agreement, 
in that regard, with its counterparts. In that framework, 
my  country  has  been  respectful  of  its  rulings,  as 
was  shown  recently  in  a  case  involving  Uruguay  in 
an  application  before  the  Court.  Uruguay  has  also 
received its advisory opinions as relevant contributions 
to  international  law  that  ought  to  be  followed  by  the 
international community.
The  traditional  position  of  Uruguay  with  respect 
to international law and the obligations resulting from 
its rulings has manifested itself in other jurisdictional 
areas at the regional and international levels. Uruguay’s 
fidelity  to  policy  regarding  human  rights  has  been 
reflected in the way it acts in cases to which it is party, 
as was the case initiated at the beginning of 2010 by the 
tobacco company Philip Morris before the International 
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), 
which went against two standards adopted by Uruguay 
for  tobacco  control  and  which  resulted  in  a  ruling 
favourable to Uruguay.
To  conclude,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
Uruguay’s  commitment  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Statute  of  the  Court  and  the  progressive 
development of international law and its codification.
Ms.  Pino  Rivera  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba associates itself with the statement made by the 
representative of the Islamic Republic of Iran on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries (see A/72/
PV.34). We appreciate the presentation of the report of 
the International Court of Justice (A/72/4), and we also 
wish to express our commitment to the strict application 
of  international  law  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes.
Cuba  acknowledges  the  work  done  by  the  Court 
since its inception. Its judgments and advisory opinions 
have been of special importance, not only in terms of 
the cases submitted for its consideration but also for the 
development of public international law. The volume of 
cases referred to the Court, many of which correspond to 
the Latin American and Caribbean region, demonstrate 
the  importance  that  the  international  community 
and  this  region  in  particular  attach  to  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
The  Republic  of  Cuba  addresses  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  in  accordance  with  Article  33, 
paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
We  regret  that  some  Court  judgments  have  not  been 
executed, in clear violation of Article 94 of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  establishes  that  each 
Member  of  the  United  Nations  undertakes  to  comply 
with the decision of the International Court of Justice 
17-35142
9/12
A/72/PV.35 
26/11/2017
in any case to which it is a party. That demonstrates the 
need to reform the United Nations system so as to grant 
greater guarantees to developing countries in the face 
of  powerful  nations.  Cuba  considers  it  useful  for  the 
Court to present a critical assessment of its relationship 
with  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the 
Security Council.
Many  significant  cases  have  been  dealt  with  by 
the International Court of Justice. Cuba attaches great 
importance to the advisory opinion issued unanimously 
on 8 July 1996 on the Legality of the threat or use of 
nuclear  weapons.  In  that,  the  International  Court  of 
Justice concluded that there is an obligation to undertake 
in  good  faith  and  bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations 
for nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict 
and  effective  international  control.  Cuba  also  urges 
that the advisory opinion of 9 July 2004 on the Legal 
Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall  in  the 
Occupied Palestinian Territory be fully respected and 
calls on all States to respect and guarantee respect for 
the provisions of the Court in this important case.
We also attach great importance to the allocation of 
the budgetary resources necessary for the International 
Court  of  Justice  to  adequately  carry  out  its  work  in 
order to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflicts 
it has under its jurisdiction. We call for work to ensure 
that  these  resources  reach  the  Court  in  a  timely  and 
appropriate manner.
We  wish  to  thank  the  Court  for  the  publications 
made available to the Governments parties and for the 
online resources, which constitute a valuable material 
for the dissemination and study of public international 
law,  especially  for  developing  countries.  Many  such 
countries,  including  our  own,  are  often  deprived  of 
information  related  to  the  advances  of  international 
law. Cuba is a country with a peaceful vocation that is 
respectful of international law and has always faithfully 
fulfilled its international obligations derived from the 
treaties to which it is party. In that regard, we wish to 
take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  Cuba’s  commitment 
to peace.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Observer State of Palestine.
Mr. Bamya (Palestine): The State of Palestine aligns 
itself with the statement delivered by the representative 
of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
The State of Palestine stresses that the international 
rule  of  law  is  of  paramount  importance  for  the 
achievement of international peace and security and that 
there can be no rule of law without justice. Therefore 
empowering  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  an 
integral and key part of our efforts to ensure fulfilment 
of  the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  State  of  Palestine 
considers  that  the  Court’s  well-established  credibility 
and authority has allowed it to play an important role 
in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  It  calls  on  all 
States to recognize the compulsory jurisdiction of the 
Court as an important contribution towards upholding 
the international rule of law.
The  State  of  Palestine  stresses  that  all  States 
and  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  must  respect  the 
decisions and opinions delivered by the Court. In this 
context,  Palestine  condemns  Israel’s  disregard  for 
and  continuous  breach  of  international  law,  including 
following the advisory opinion delivered by the Court 
in 2004, which declared the wall built by Israel in the 
occupied Palestinian territory, as well as its associated 
regime,  illegal.  It  considered  that  such  actions  may 
amount  to  unlawful  de  facto annexation,  in  violation 
of  the  cardinal  principle  of  the  inadmissibility  of  the 
acquisition of land by force.
Palestine  calls  on  all  States  to  uphold  their 
obligations  under  international  law,  including  as  they 
pertain  to  non-recognition,  distinction  between  the 
occupied  territory  and  the  territory  of  the  occupying 
Power,  holding  accountable 
those  who  commit 
violations and crimes, not rendering aid or assistance to 
the commission of unlawful actions and contributing to 
the early realization by the Palestinian people of their 
long-denied right to self-determination.
Finally,  our  delegation  wishes  to  underscore  that 
the events that have taken place in recent years clearly 
demonstrate the importance of the International Court 
of  Justice  as  an  international  jurisdictional  body  that 
resolves,  in  accordance  with  international  law  and 
peacefully  and  in  good  faith,  disputes  that  have  the 
greatest impact for the international community.
The  State  of  Palestine  is  a  strong  advocate  for 
the  activation,  strengthening  and  universality  of 
international  accountability  mechanisms  and  has 
decided  to  join  all  those  available  to  it.  We  are 
convinced,  as  demonstrated  by  our  own  experience 
and  the  ongoing  occupation  of  our  land  and  violation 
of our people’s rights, that impunity fosters criminality 
10/12 
17-35142
26/11/2017 
A/72/PV.35
and  that  accountability  alone  can  ensure  respect  for 
international law and advance peace.
(spoke in French)
In  conclusion,  the  State  of  Palestine  thanks  the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  His 
Excellency  Ronny  Abraham,  for  his  report  (A/72/4) 
and his efforts at the helm of the Court. We commend 
States  for  their  recourse  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  to  settle  their  disputes.  Palestine  stresses  that 
the  number  of  cases  brought  before  the  Court  and 
their  diversity,  both  in  terms  of  topics  examined  and 
geographical range, constitutes further evidence of the 
importance of the Court and its mandate, as well as the 
need to work to consolidate its universality.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  May  I  take  it  that 
the  General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Several speakers gave asked 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind 
members that statements in exercise of the right of reply 
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 
to 5 minutes for the second intervention and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We are compelled to comment on the statement 
by  the  delegation  of  Ukraine.  We  wish  to  recall  that 
the  debate  on  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice is not the appropriate format for discussing the 
substance  of  cases  that  are  being  considered  by  that 
organ. Instead of making a constructive contribution to 
the  debate,  the  delegation  of  Ukraine  has  once  again 
embarked  on  propagandistic  rhetoric.  Moreover,  it 
proceeded to distort the judgments of the Court.
The  picture  painted  by  the  Ukrainian  delegation 
is  far  removed  from  reality.  To  understand  that,  it 
should  suffice  to  look  at  the  order  for  provisional 
measures  in  the  framework  of  the  case  of  Ukraine  v. 
Russian  Federation  and  the  materials  dealt  with  in 
the proceedings.
First of all, the Court did not support the statement 
of  Ukraine  about  an  alleged  occupation  or  the  status 
of  Crimea.  In  that  regard,  the  insinuation  made  by 
the  Ukrainian  delegation  today  is  inappropriate.  The 
Court  rejected  all  Ukraine’s  requests  for  any  sort  of 
provisional  measures  on  the  International  Convention 
for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism, 
considering that they were not plausible. The Court also 
appealed to the parties to work for full implementation 
of  the  Minsk  agreements,  recognizing  that  those 
agreements  were  adopted  and  signed  by  a  number  of 
parties, including by the representatives of Donetsk and 
Luhansk — a fact that Ukraine seeks to deny.
As  regards  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the 
Court did not support any of the provisional measures 
in the way that had been requested by Ukraine. Instead, 
the  Court  took  a  decision  to  apply  three  provisional 
measures  that  it  formulated  itself.  Two  of  them  are 
addressed  to  Russia  and  one  to  both  parties,  which 
for  some  reason  the  Ukrainian  delegation  forgot  to 
mention. In the light of all that has been said, we would 
like to point out that we are respectful of the relevant 
rulings of the Court and have taken all the necessary 
measures for their implementation.
Incidentally,  it  is  noteworthy  that  in  considering 
issues of human rights in various forums, the Ukrainian 
authorities recently adopted legislation that bears all the 
signs  of  being  discriminatory  in  virtually  prohibiting 
the teaching in languages of national minorities. Maybe 
not  everyone  knows  that  that  step  triggered  concern 
even among some of the allies of Kyiv in the European 
Union. A revealing statement was made by a country 
neighbouring Ukraine.
The  new  Ukrainian  legislation  encroaches  on  the 
rights  of  national  minorities,  making  their  situation 
worse  than  during  the  times  of  the  Soviet  Union. 
By  engaging  in  recriminations  against  Russia,  the 
Ukrainian authorities are actually pursuing a policy that 
substantially violates the rights of its own population. 
To that, we should add that the culprits are not just in 
Kyiv, but in those countries that consistently pander to 
its subversive policy.
We  call  on  delegations  to  reflect  upon  this, 
including in the light of the recent messages of support 
for the latest anti-Russian steps of Ukraine.
Mr.  Yelchenko  (Ukraine):  I  wish  to  make  a  few 
points.  First  of  all,  I  am  greatly  amused  to  hear  the 
statement in exercise of the right of reply just delivered 
by the delegation of the Russian Federation. It appears 
that the Russian delegation came here only to make this 
right  of  reply.  They  did  not  make  a  statement  on  the 
substance of today’s meeting, which in itself shows the 
17-35142
11/12
A/72/PV.35 
26/11/2017
total disrespect for the report of the International Court 
of Justice.
My second point is that I did not say a single word 
that  the  Russian  representative  refers  to  in  his  right 
of reply. I never referred to the case in my statement, 
which  the  representative  of  the  Russian  Federation 
referred to several times.
My  third  point  is  that  we  were  not  referring  to 
the  case  presented  by  Ukraine  with  reference  to  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the 
Financing  of  Terrorism,  which  is  relevant  to  Donbas. 
We referred only to the case that is relevant to Crimea.
My fourth point is that the President of the Court, 
Judge Abraham, spent around 15 minutes describing to 
the delegations present here the two cases presented by 
Ukraine against Russia.
My last point is on the substance of the statement 
by  the  Russian  delegation,  although  I  believe  that 
that  statement  is  not  relevant  to  the  agenda  item  we 
discussed today.
It is a clear and unequivocal fact that the temporary 
occupation  and  the  subsequent  attempt  to  annex 
the  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea  and  the  city  of 
Sevastopol and Russia’s illegal actions in Donbas fall 
squarely under the definition of an act of aggression, in 
line with the provisions of article 3, paragraphs (a), (b), 
(c), (d), (e) and (g), of the annex to General Assembly 
resolution  3314  (XXIX).  The  Assembly’s  adoption 
of  resolution  of  68/262,  on  the  territorial  integrity  of 
Ukraine,  and  resolution  71/205,  on  the  situation  of 
human rights in the temporarily occupied Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, Ukraine, 
is a strong confirmation of that.
Russian  actions  in  Ukraine  constitute  the  most 
serious  crime  against  the  international  peace  that  the 
United  Nations  is  striving  to  preserve.  They  entail 
international  responsibility  of  the  Russian  Federation 
as a State and the international criminal responsibility 
of its senior leadership. We urge the Russian Federation 
to cease internationally wrongful acts on the territory 
of  Ukraine, 
to  offer  appropriate  assurances  and 
guarantees  of  their  non-repetition,  and  to  make  full 
reparation,  compensation  and  satisfaction  for  the 
damage already caused.
Regarding the aforementioned International Court 
of  Justice  Order,  we  urge  the  Russian  Federation  to 
fully  and  unconditionally  implement  it,  together  with 
all  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
in more than 20 reports on Ukraine.
In conclusion, we would like to draw the attention 
of  the  Russian  Federation  to  the  third  provisional 
measure from the Court Order, namely, to refrain from 
any action which might aggravate or extend the dispute 
or make it more difficult to resolve.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian) : I will be as brief as possible.
To begin, I would like to comment on the statement 
of the delegation to the effect that we did not speak during 
the  debate.  In  the  view  of  the  Ukrainian  delegation, 
that seems to mean something about our attitude to this 
debate. That has no relationship to reality. Our position 
on the report of the International Court of Justice and 
its activities as a whole is well known to the Court, and 
it  has  been  brought  to  its  attention  in  other  formats, 
including at yesterday’s Security Council briefing (see 
S/PV.8075).  The  delegation  of  Ukraine  knows  that 
very well.
As for the repeated accusations about occupation, 
our  position  is  well  known.  We  will  not  repeat  it 
now.  With  respect  to  the  third  aspect,  regarding  the 
provisional  measures  indicated  by  the  Court,  once 
again I would like to recall that they apply equally to 
the delegation of Ukraine.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 74?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
12/12 
17-35142
