United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
9th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20  September 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.9
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Perera  (Sri 
Lanka), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Address by Mr. Lenin Moreno Garcés, 
Constitutional President of the Republic of Ecuador
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Constitutional President of the 
Republic of Ecuador.
Mr. Lenin Moreno Garcés, Constitutional President 
of the Republic of Ecuador, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lenin  Moreno  Garcés, 
Constitutional  President  of  the  Republic  of  Ecuador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Moreno  Garcés  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
As I speak from this rostrum today, I can affirm that 
much progress has been made to achieve inclusion and 
accessibility; however, as a society we still have much 
that remains to be done for the world’s 1 billion people 
living with disabilities. I am an optimist. We are entirely 
capable of finding solutions; it is a matter of political 
will. That is why I am grateful for the accommodations 
that have been made to enable me to address the General 
Assembly today.
I  congratulate 
the  President,  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák, for proposing the topic for the general debate, 
namely,”Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a 
decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”.  Those  are 
truly today’s imperatives. Without a doubt, a responsible 
Government  must  take  care  of  its  citizens  so  that  all 
of them may have a decent life on a sustainable planet 
where every day we work towards achieving peace.
Our  Government  philosophy  agrees  that  we  must 
care  for  our  citizens  throughout  their  lives,  from  the 
moment  of  conception  to  when  God  decides  to  close 
our eyes. We must ensure a good life and a good death. 
That is why we have organized the Government’s work 
around  a  plan  that  we  have  called  “A  Whole  Life”.  A 
responsible  country  and  Government  must  care  for, 
inspire, encourage, support and be good to its citizens 
throughout  their  entire  lives  under  the  principle  of 
co-responsibility.
Taking  care  of  citizens  begins  with  prenatal 
services.  After  birth,  we  need  to  provide  medical 
care  for  the  child,  appropriate  nutrition,  vaccinations, 
neonatal screening and early intervention. Then comes 
the stage when we must inspire the new human being 
and  foster  their  love  for  science,  knowledge,  art  and 
sports to shape their will and mind, thereby awakening 
their consciousness and planting the seeds of the values 
within them that will serve as the basis for their adult 
life. In the next stage of life, it is crucial for us to propel 
our young people forward with an education — a high 
quality higher education — facilitating in that way the 
fulfilment  of  their  endeavours,  projects  and  dreams. 
Beyond  that  stage,  we  must  provide  support  to 
individuals  with  a  view  to  ensuring  the  well-being  of 
their  families  —  the  right  to  social  security,  housing, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29400 (E)
*1729400*
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
employment,  recreation  and  a  safe  and  healthy 
environment. At the end comes the stage of gratitude 
when we give back to the people who have served their 
societies and families — the care and services that we 
provide to our senior citizens.
Within  that  vision  of  ensuring  the  rights  of  each 
individual throughout their entire life, there persists an 
urgent need to eradicate all forms of violence. Today all 
of humankind has a moral and ethical duty — we must 
prohibit the abuse and killing of thousands of women 
and girls. There can be no more femicides, not even one. 
Our “A Whole Life” plan is, in sum, how we in Ecuador 
have  interpreted  our  commitment  to  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  unquestionably  inherited  the 
notion from our indigenous peoples that the world must 
be focused on the human being and their relationship to 
nature, in which the beginning and the end is to meet 
the needs of all and make possible a life with dignity. 
My indigenous brothers and sisters taught me that we 
were born to be happy, and it is upon that premise that 
we must govern, live, manage and act.
However,  we  must  also  recognize  that  we  are 
experiencing  a  difficult  and  painful  time  as  human 
beings. We are facing many crises. We see a potential 
nuclear  conflict,  greater  levels  of  inequality  and 
poverty  and  a  planet  that  must  fight  the  devastating 
effects  of  climate  change.  If  we  continue  along  such 
a  path,  there  is  no  doubt  that  we  are  moving  towards 
destruction.  Clearly  that  is  evidence  of  the  fact  that 
we,  the  human  race,  are  failing.  We  must  commit  to 
achieving  peace.  Consistent  with  that  need,  today 
Ecuador is acceding to the Treaty to Prohibit Nuclear 
Weapons.  We  call  on  all  countries  to  accede  to  that 
historic international instrument.
We know that the military industry is a big business, 
which is why arms traffickers, and not arms producers, 
are prosecuted and convicted. What ethics are at play 
here?  How  is  it  possible  that  resources  that  could  be 
devoted to financing the fulfilment of the Sustainable 
Development Goals are wasted on the absurdity of war?
 We firmly believe that peace and development are 
achieved through dialogue; but if we continue with wars 
and  blockades  against  countries  and  peoples,  such  as 
the blockade against our brother country Cuba, we will 
never  be  able  to  achieve  true  liberty  and  democracy. 
We  therefore  insist  that  the  sovereignty  of  States 
and  non-intervention  must  be  respected.  We  call  for 
dialogue as a mechanism to resolve differences around 
the globe, with full respect for international law.
Military intervention is not the answer, as it only 
brings with it suffering, pain and death. We therefore 
resolutely support the peace talks that the Government 
of Colombia is holding in our country with the National 
Liberation Army. We welcome the agreement reached 
in Quito, which was announced a few days ago, for a 
bilateral  temporary  ceasefire  in  Columbia.  Step-by-
step we are nearing the goal of having the Community 
of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  become  a 
region of peace.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my statement, 
we  have  before  us  another  major  challenge  —  the 
alarming inequality in the world. It is unacceptable for 
eight people in the world to possess the same wealth as 
one  half  of  humankind’s  poorest.  Such  injustice  goes 
against  the  rights  to  development  and  human  dignity. 
A way to immediately confront inequality would be to 
institute fair tax measures. We must fight tax evasion 
and avoidance: those hidden resources are vital for the 
development of our countries.
Furthermore, the use of tax shelters has served to 
hide corruption within both the public and the private 
sectors. If we truly want to fight corruption, we must 
encourage a culture of transparency. In our country, by 
popular agreement, the people of Ecuador decided that 
no  public  servant  can  have  resources  or  goods  in  tax 
havens. As Chair of the Group of 77 and China, Ecuador 
has promoted a global agenda for fair tax actions. We 
reiterate the need to create an intergovernmental body 
on  tax  cooperation  at  the  United  Nations.  Another 
mechanism  for  promoting  transparency  would  be  a 
binding  instrument  on  transnational  corporations  and 
human rights. We appreciate the support of all countries 
that share our views on such an initiative.
Looking  at  the  devastation  caused  by  climatic 
phenomena in recent weeks, I would be remiss if I did 
not  express  my  solidarity  with  the  peoples  affected 
and turn to address one of the greatest challenges that 
humankind faces, that is, the responsibility to combat 
climate change. We must take care of our common home 
and  ensure  the  survival  of  the  planet.  The  unlimited 
exploitation of the environment has led us to live with 
the consequences of climate change. We, the developing 
countries, are those that pay the highest costs. Countries 
have common but differentiated responsibilities. Those 
who pollute the most must take greater responsibility.
2/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
As the Assembly knows, Ecuador is one of the eight 
Amazonian countries. Having been born and raised in 
the Ecuadorian Amazon, I have a duty to promote the 
protection of the largest hydrographic basin in the world. 
In  the  dialogue  convened  by  the  Secretary-General,  I 
presented  the  Amazon  initiative  to  stop  deforestation 
and  combat  climate  change.  We  advocate  compliance 
with  all  international  agreements  for  the  protection 
of  nature,  including  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use of the oceans. We encourage bioknowledge and the 
bioeconomy.  We  must  protect  and  make  the  most  of 
the knowledge of the guardians of nature, in particular 
indigenous peoples, communities and nations.
I would like to refer to another issue of enormous 
importance  for  today’s  world,  namely,  the  migration 
crisis.  Ecuador  supports  the  principle  of  universal 
citizenship  and 
free  mobility,  because  we  are 
increasingly  interconnected,  and  the  right  to  free 
mobility cannot be applied only to capital and goods. 
Human  mobility  enriches  peoples  and  contributes  to 
combating all forms of discrimination and xenophobia. 
We strongly support the global compact for safe, orderly 
and regular migration, which is being discussed here in 
the Assembly. Closing borders is not the solution. It has 
never been the solution in the history of humankind.
When I formed my Government, I called for major 
national  dialogue,  without  excluding  anyone,  in  order 
to reach agreements that would allow us to build a more 
humane,  just  and  democratic  society.  Dialogue  is  the 
only  tool  for  building  societies  of  peace.  That  means 
societies  with  jobs,  high-quality  education,  access  to 
health care as a right, decent housing and access to basic 
services. Through dialogue, democracy is built, which 
is both a means of moving forward and our final goal.
Democracy  is  strengthened  by  generating  and 
promoting  spaces  for  young  people  to  participate 
in  politics.  We  have  an  obligation  to  generate  new 
leadership so that they can take our place when the time 
comes. We must maintain the defence of fundamental 
liberties,  including  those  of  expression  and  worship. 
We  must  promote  a  new  international  order  based  on 
peace, respect for differences, equality and solidarity.
We  do  not  want  merely  compassionate  societies, 
but  rather  societies  that  feature  solidarity.  That  is 
why  we  need  fundamental  love  for  others,  honesty 
and a sense of community. Faced with the failure of a 
development model based on accumulation, inequality 
and war, we can, and must, foster a new society based 
on the construction of the common good. All countries 
can achieve development with equity, if we have a fair 
international system and if we commit ourselves to the 
eradication of poverty and inequality.
Our  challenges  are  great,  but  I  am  convinced 
that  we  are  capable  of  overcoming  them.  My  deep 
optimism lies in the confidence that dialogue, political 
decision-making and collective action will enable us to 
build a more humane and more just world in which we 
can live with dignity.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Constitutional President 
of  the  Republic  of  Ecuador  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Lenín Moreno Garcés, Constitutional President 
of the Republic of Ecuador, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Ms. Gabriela Michetti Illia, 
Vice-President of the Argentine Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Argentine Republic.
Ms. Gabriela Michetti Illia, Vice-President of the 
Argentine Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming Her Excellency Ms. Gabriela Michetti Illia, 
Vice-President of the Argentine Republic, and inviting 
her to address the Assembly.
Ms. Michetti Illia (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  am  very  honoured  and  very  happy  to  be  here  today 
representing my country and my Government.
As  an  Argentine  and  a  Latin  American,  I  cannot 
begin  my  statement  without  first  expressing  my 
solidarity  and 
the  solidarity  of  Argentina  with 
those  afflicted  by  the  tragic  earthquake  in  Mexico, 
which  adds  to  the  devastation  caused  by  successive 
hurricanes in the Caribbean. The environment and the 
forces  of  nature  are  speaking  to  us  and  presenting  us 
with challenges.
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák on his election and on his renewed commitment 
task  of  focusing  our  responsibilities  as 
to 
the 
17-29400
3/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
Governments on people. I believe that that is our most 
important  mission.  If  the  international  community  is 
striving for peace, dialogue and understanding, and if 
we working against poverty, violence and intolerance, 
Argentina will always be there to offer its support.
The  leaders  of  the  world  have  agreed  on  a  plan 
of  action  in  favour  of  people  and  the  planet,  namely, 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
stipulates that the eradication of poverty in all its forms 
is the greatest challenge facing the world in its efforts 
to  achieve  sustainable  development.  In  keeping  with 
that global aspiration, our Government has established 
as one of the central axes of its programme the goal of 
moving  decisively  towards  zero  poverty.  As  a  sign  of 
that  commitment  at  the  international  level,  Argentina 
presented  its  first  voluntary  national  review  of  its 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda in July.
We  in  Argentina  are  working  to  create  a  country 
where there is equal opportunity for all. That is why we 
are also focusing on the creation of jobs and inclusive 
education. On that note, it is worth mentioning that we 
will host the fourth Global Conference on the Sustained 
Eradication of Child Labour in November, where we will 
tackle  issues  such  as  the  eradication  of  forced  labour 
and the promotion of high-quality youth employment. 
A debate on the future of work goes hand in hand with 
empowering  our  young  people  through  high-quality 
education. We dream of a world where a child’s destiny 
and a young person’s future have no limits other than 
their talent, intelligence, determination, will power and 
desire to succeed in life.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  is 
a  State  policy  of  Argentina  that  has  been  sustained 
since  we  recovered  our  democracy  in  1983.  In  that 
vein,  we  have  been  working  closely  with  other  actors 
in the regional and international systems for this to be 
effective.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  that  our 
country has presented its candidacy for membership in 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2019-2020. 
We count on members’ support.
One  of  Argentina’s  priorities  is  to  ensure  gender 
equality. We believe that it is important to educate our 
communities  with  the  aim  of  eliminating  the  various 
forms  of  hidden  violence  within  our  society.  For  that 
reason, our Government has committed to implementing 
programmes that eliminate gender violence and achieve 
the  full  empowerment  of  women  and  girls,  including 
their  political  and  economic  autonomy,  within  the 
framework  of  our  first  national  plan  of  action  for  the 
prevention,  assistance  and  eradication  of  violence 
against women.
Our  Government  has  placed  special  emphasis  on 
the  commitments  made  along  with  the  international 
community in the framework of the Convention on the 
Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  and  its  Optional 
Protocol, which was incorporated into our Constitution 
in 2014. In taking ownership of the spirit of Convention, 
we  have  established  an  agency 
that  focuses  on 
policymaking  for  disabled  persons.  The  design  and 
implementation of a national plan is essential in terms 
of  participation  and  working  together  with  disabled 
persons.  As  that  is  an  issue  that  I  am  personally 
involved  in,  I  commit  to  working  tirelessly  to  ensure 
that the national plan covers all areas referred to in the 
Convention. From my own perspective as a person with 
an acquired disability, I wish to express here in the Hall 
the deep commitment that both President Macri and I 
have to changing the distorted view held by our culture 
towards disability.
I  would  also  like  to  mention  the  global  problem 
of drugs, which knows no limits or borders. We must 
cooperate  and  unite  our  efforts  in  order  to  confront 
it.  The  fight  against  drug  trafficking  is  another  of 
our President’s three main policies: we must redouble 
our international commitments to tackle that scourge. 
In  Argentina  we  are  working  in  that  vein  to  find  a 
consensus that will enable us to create an international 
court  against  organized  crime  in  our  region  of 
Latin America.
It is with sadness that I refer to the situation that 
our sister Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is facing. 
On  8  August,  12  States  of  Americas  met  in  Lima  to 
condemn  the  rupture  in  the  democratic  order  and  the 
systematic violation of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms as well as the violence, repression, political 
persecution,  the  existence  of  political  prisoners  and 
lack  of  free  elections  in  that  country.  It  pains  me  to 
speak  such  words  about  a  kindred  country  that  is  so 
dear  to  Argentina,  and  so,  from  this  rostrum,  I  call 
for  credible  negotiations  in  good  faith,  building  on  a 
consensus  of  the  parties  that  is  oriented  towards  the 
peaceful re-establishment of democracy in Venezuela.
The Government of Argentina once again reiterates 
its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms. I wish to 
convey the condolences of our people to the victims of 
that scourge and their families. We know all too well 
4/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
what  we  speak  of:  my  country  has  directly  suffered 
from  terrorism,  having  been  the  victim  of  two  major 
attacks  on  the  city  of  Buenos  Aires,  one  in  1992 
against the Embassy of Israel and then in 1994 against 
the  Argentine-Israeli  Mutual  Association  (AMIA) 
headquarters.
I  wish  to  reiterate  the  will  of  the  Republic  of 
Argentina to bring to justice all those who participated 
in  the  financing,  planning,  preparation  and  execution 
of those terrorist attacks. The continued investigation 
of the attack on AMIA calls for the appearance of the 
accused at a hearing. We do not want another 20 years 
to  pass  without  justice  being  served.  That  is  why  we 
call  on  the  international  community  to  support  us  in 
our requests for cooperation from the Islamic Republic 
of Iran, which we have been submitting for some time 
in order to shed light on this terrorist attack.
For  our  Government,  the  new  role  of  developing 
countries  requires  the  design  of  an  international 
architecture  in  finance  and  trade  matters  that  is 
oriented  towards  inclusive,  sustainable  and  balanced 
economic growth. In that context, Argentina reaffirms 
its determination to integrate with the world by building 
bridges  with  the  international  community.  We  have 
demonstrated that by taking on the responsibilities of 
hosting the eleventh Ministerial Conference of the World 
Trade Organization (WTO) next December in Buenos 
Aires  and  the  presidency  of  the  Group  of  20  Summit 
in  2018,  among  others.  We  maintain  our  commitment 
to  achieving  positive  outcomes  at  the  Ministerial 
Conference,  which  should  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
the  multilateral  trade  system,  and  of  the  WTO  as  its 
keystone. It should also ensure that the benefits of free 
trade reach all those who seek development, the creation 
of  jobs,  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  the  correction 
of  trade  distortions,  particularly  in  relation  to  global 
agriculture and livestock markets.
The South American Common Market is our main 
tool  for  entering  the  international  market.  We  know 
that  in  the  twenty-first  century  we  cannot  achieve 
development  in  our  countries  individually,  just  as  we 
cannot do so in our personal lives. Nothing can be done 
alone,  and  we  are  always  in  need  of  others  to  enrich 
our  projects  and  our  lives.  We  must  strengthen  our 
capacities  and  resources  and  establish  the  foundation 
we  need  for  growth.  The  current  global  situation 
presents  challenges  to  us  that  confirm  Argentina’s 
decision to expand trade and improve our profile as a 
country for investment. That has led us to establish a 
Southern Common Market in accordance with focused 
regionalism  to  attract  investments  and  to  strengthen 
participation  in  global  value  chains,  which  will  have 
special  emphasis  and  effect  on  small  and  medium-
sized  enterprises,  generating  more  and  better  jobs. 
That is why we have strongly encouraged negotiations 
with  the  European  Union,  and  those  negotiations  are 
entering their final phase. We are also negotiating with 
the European Free Trade Association, and we will soon 
be doing the same with Canada and with the Republic 
of Korea. We have also intensified our links with the 
Pacific Alliance, with Japan and with New Zealand.
Argentina’s 
international  cooperation  operates 
through  the  Argentine  Fund  for  South-South  and 
Triangular Cooperation, which is celebrating its twenty-
fifth anniversary this year and is a fundamental foreign 
policy mechanism that makes it possible for us to align 
ourselves  in  solidarity  and  in  a  horizontal  fashion 
with  other  States.  We  need  to  update  our  strategies 
to  create  links  and  relationships  with  other  mid-level 
developed  States.  As  a  reflection  of  our  vocation  to 
enter the regional and international arenas, next March 
Argentina  will  be  the  host  of  the  High-level  United 
Nations  Conference  on  South-South  Cooperation.  We 
hope  that  that  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  debate 
and  for  the  building  of  consensuses  that  will  make  it 
possible for us to achieve a fairer, more equal world.
Argentina  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  We  will  continue 
to  provide  our  assistance,  especially  in  Haiti  and  in 
Colombia.
its 
presence 
on 
promotes 
Argentina 
the 
international  stage  with  the  aim  of  achieving  better 
levels of protection and a sustainable and rational use 
of our natural resources, and we encourage all projects 
and all activities that improve the living conditions of 
the people living on our national territory. Care for the 
environment is a priority for my Government. Growth 
cannot  take  place  in  a  manner  that  is  out  of  balance 
with  the  environment.  As  Pope  Francis  warned,  the 
pace  of  consumption,  of  waste  and  of  change  in  the 
environment  has  gone  beyond  the  resources  of  the 
planet. The environment is a collective good; it is the 
heritage  of  all  of  humankind,  and  it  is  everybody’s 
responsibility. Protecting the environment should be a 
comprehensive part of the development process. It must 
not be seen in isolation. Argentina is committed to the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  It  upholds  that 
commitment and will continue upholding it with other 
17-29400
5/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
States parties in the preparatory process for the twenty-
third  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  in  order 
to achieve concrete progress in the implementation of 
the Convention.
We wish to reiterate our legitimate and inalienable 
right  of  sovereignty  over  the  Malvinas  Islands,  South 
Georgia  Islands  and  South  Sandwich  Islands  and  the 
surrounding maritime areas. Once again, we call upon 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland to renew bilateral negotiations, which will make 
it possible for us to find a peaceful permanent solution 
that  respects  the  way  of  life  of  the  islanders  and  that 
is  in  accordance  with  the  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly and the Special Committee on the Situation 
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on 
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples. Our Government has begun a new phase in our 
relations with the United Kingdom. We hope that that 
will  contribute  to  the  creation  of  conditions  in  which 
both Governments can sit at the negotiating table with 
a view to resolving this protracted sovereignty dispute.
Two  years  ago  our  Governments  met  in  this  Hall 
to add their voices to a collective commitment, which 
took  the  form  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  Taking  on  in  a  determined  manner  the 
targets  and  goals  set  by  the  2030  Agenda  will  allow 
us to build a better world for coming generations. The 
progress  that  we  have  already  made  bears  witness 
to  the  fact  that  focusing  on  people,  as  the  Secretary-
General requests that we do, is the only way to respond 
to our task.
The phase of history that we are living through is 
full of challenges and opportunities. I welcome the fact 
that  in  every  corner  of  our  planet  there  is  a  renewed 
perspective with regard to the vital, distinct contribution 
that women can and must make, provided that we bring 
feminine attributes into play. What am I talking about? 
I am talking about our natural tendency as women to 
unite in a world where disintegrating forces seem to be 
gaining strength and prevailing. We have a vocation for 
long-term  vision  when  everything  around  us  appears 
to  be  uncertain.  We  have  the  vocation  of  nourishing, 
of  caring  for  others,  of  seeing  with  empathy,  and  of 
putting ourselves in other people’s shoes. All of those 
are indispensable feminine qualities that we must put 
into play if we want a more equal and more just society.
Those attributes are indeed vital but, as we know, 
they  are  not  the  exclusive  domain  of  women.  Neither 
are we are the only people needed to reach the goals that 
we have set. It would be extremely counterproductive 
to  sacrifice  the  contribution  of  any  gender,  tradition, 
religion  or  culture  on  the  altar  of  our  prejudices.  We 
need everybody. We must all bear the enormous burden 
of ensuring that this stage of history will bear fruit in 
the  lifetime  of  each  individual.  In  that  way,  without 
excluding  anybody  who  wants  to  contribute  towards 
that work, we will achieve a global society that is more 
prosperous and, above all, more just and fair. Our work 
must  be  a  work  of  love  because  justice  and  the  quest 
for the common good are the expression of love in the 
public sphere.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Argentine Republic for the statement she has just made.
Ms. Marta Gabriela Michetti Illia, Vice-President 
of  the  Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of 
the Republic of the Congo
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Sassou 
Nguesso, President of the Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Sassou Nguesso (spoke in French): At the 
outset, I would like to express my sincerest condolences 
to  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Mexico  in  the 
wake of the earthquake that was so devastating for that 
country.
On behalf of my delegation and on my own behalf, 
I  would  like  to  extend  to  the  President  our  heartfelt 
congratulations  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I also 
express  our  gratitude  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, to whom we pay warm tribute for the work 
accomplished.  We  also  once  again  wish  Secretary-
6/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
General  Guterres  every  success  in  the  fulfilment  of 
his mandate.
I  note  with  interest  the  great  significance  of  the 
theme  of  this  general  debate.  Indeed,  focusing  on 
people and striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on a sustainable planet is a tremendous challenge that 
calls for a spirit of openness and responsibility on all 
our parts.
increased 
Humankind  faces  many  challenges.  Terrorism 
is  spreading  its  reach  daily.  No  continent  is  immune 
to  violence  perpetrated  in  the  name  of  extremism 
and  nationalism.  The 
the 
Korean peninsula could lead to nuclear conflict on an 
unprecedented scale. The situations in Syria and Iraq, 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict,  the  nuclear  threat  and 
the crises in Africa and other parts of the world mean 
that  there  is  now  a  pressing  moral  need  for  peace, 
without which nothing constructive or sustainable can 
be built. That has always been our guiding light.
tensions  on 
Whenever  circumstances  allow,  the  Congo  has 
always  seized  every  opportunity  to  uphold  the  ideals 
of peace and justice in Africa and across the world. It 
is in that context that, on 19 October, my country will 
host the next Summit of the International Conference 
on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  and  the  seventh  High-
Level  Meeting  of  the  Follow-up  Mechanism  of  the 
Peace,  Security  and  Cooperation  Framework  for  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Region. The 
Summit will provide an opportunity to consider ways 
and means of resolving the various crises that currently 
afflict that part of our continent.
In addition, the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and  other  countries  in  the  Great  Lakes  region  are 
confronted with various crises. I refer in particular to 
the Central African Republic, Burundi and South Sudan. 
In the case of the Central African Republic, the return 
to  peace  is  moving  forward  apace.  The  Government 
and  the  people  of  the  Congo  are  unwavering  in  their 
support for the people of the Central African Republic. 
The  implementation  of  the  Road  Map  for  Peace  and 
Reconciliation 
the  Central  African  Republic, 
adopted in July under the auspices the African Union, 
should provide new impetus to the stabilization of that 
fraternal country.
in 
Moreover, the search for solutions for an effective 
exit  from  the  crisis  in  Libya  as  part  of  the  mandate 
entrusted  by  the  African  Union  to  the  Congo  is 
unquestionably  moving  in  the  right  direction.  The 
holding  of  the  fourth  meeting  of  the  African  Union 
High-level  Committee  on  Libya  on  1  September  in 
Brazzaville  led  to  quite  heartening  progress.  All 
major  stakeholders  in  the  Libyan  crisis  and  members 
of  the  dialogue  committees  set  up  by  the  Libyans 
themselves travelled to Brazzaville during or just after 
the Summit. A final communiqué and road map were 
adopted  at  the  end  of  the  meeting.  The  commission 
for  inter-Libyan  dialogue  has  begun  its  discussions, 
and  they  will  essentially  focus  on  the  amendment  of 
the Libyan Political Agreement adopted in Skhirat on 
17 December 2015 and the inter-Libyan conference that 
is to take place in Addis Ababa in December. From this 
rostrum, I would like to reiterate my country’s resolve 
to continue working for peace in Libya. That is why I 
urge the international community to support the efforts 
of  the  Congo  to  strengthen  initiatives  conducive  to  a 
positive outcome for those various crises.
Undoubtedly,  poverty  will  continue  to  pose  a 
lasting  global  challenge  until  we  break  the  cycle  of 
dependence and dramatic contingencies that has been 
caused  by  disturbing  changes  of  natural  ecosystems. 
In  that  respect,  the  globalizing  and  interdependent 
nature  of  our  response  is  undeniable.  Beyond  our 
differences, we must draw on the regulatory capacities 
of the great Powers, in conjunction with the search for 
adapted paradigms and more effective solidarity aimed 
at  advancing  the  developing  economies.  Our  global 
stability depends upon that.
In that particular context, Africa has been affected 
by the tragedy of emigration across the Mediterranean 
Sea. Similarly, the forced displacement of populations 
towards  more  hospitable  areas,  as  a  result  of  climate 
change, gives a measure of the distress of men, women 
and  children  —  all  victims.  It  is  a  matter  of  concern 
to us all. We must take significant action in a spirit of 
solidarity  and  mutual  understanding  so  as  to  contain 
those exoduses towards uncertainty and save the lives 
of thousands of Africans.
As a truly global issue, the climate was the subject 
of promising discussions regarding its future at the Paris 
Conference in 2015. It is urgent that the commitments 
made there be kept. For the collective consciousness of 
humankind, that is the place to express our compassion 
and  solidarity  with  the  populations  that  are  victim  to 
the  harmful  consequences  of  climate  change.  I  refer 
specifically  to  the  devastating  effects  of  Hurricane 
Irma in North America and the floods and landslides in 
Asia and some African countries, particularly in Sierra 
17-29400
7/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
Leone. Once again, we must agree that the protection of 
the environment is a common and imperative obligation.
In that context, my country initiated the Blue Fund 
for  the  Congo  Basin  on  the  sidelines  of  the  twenty-
second session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change. The memorandum of understanding that was 
signed  last  March  in  Oyo,  the  Congo,  marks  the  first 
step in the Fund’s creation. That financial instrument 
aims  to  ensure  a  better  quality  of  life  for  our  people 
and  protect  the  forests  of  the  Congo  basin,  which 
is  the  second-largest  green  lung  in  the  world  after 
the  Amazon.  I  invite  the  international  community  to 
support the Congo in that initiative aimed at protecting 
our planet from global warming.
A  decent  life  for  all  also  means  allowing  our 
populations  to  benefit  from  high-quality  health  care. 
The  proliferation  of  counterfeit  and  sub-standard 
medicines is an increasingly serious threat to the world, 
particularly for developing countries. The expansion of 
that scourge brings to mind various carefully organized 
forms  of  trafficking  that  have  helped  to  finance 
terrorism. According to the World Health Organization, 
counterfeit  medicines  lead  to  800,000  deaths  a  year. 
Approximately 10 per cent of medicines in circulation 
worldwide are estimated to be counterfeit. In Africa and 
the countries of the South in general, that figure may 
reach 40 per cent, and even 60 per cent in some regions.
In  addition  to  the  efforts  of  the  World  Health 
Organization, vigorous action at the level of the General 
Assembly should be undertaken with a view to defining 
a comprehensive strategy to combat the peril. Advocacy 
in  that  area  requires  the  constant  mobilization  of  all 
countries, including sustained attention and substantial 
financial  allocations.  For  our  part,  my  country  has 
engaged in the fight in collaboration with the Brazzaville 
Foundation for Peace and Conservation.
The  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  experiencing  a 
period that is marked by socioeconomic concern for the 
drastic  decrease  in  oil  prices.  Budgetary  adjustments 
are  now  envisaged,  with  the  support  of  international 
financial  institutions.  In  spite  of  the  dismal  situation, 
the  Congo  continues  its  resolute  march  towards  the 
consolidation  of  its  democracy.  More  than  ever,  the 
virtues of constructive dialogue are being brought into 
play.  An  institutional  framework  was  implemented 
after  the  presidential,  legislative,  local  and  senatorial 
elections. The stakeholders of the nation are exercising 
their rights in complete freedom.
Transforming the world into a haven of peace and 
prosperity is possible. We are given proof of that with 
every  passing  day.  It  is  up  to  us  to  realize  that  goal, 
while leaving no one behind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of the Congo for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Ms. Michelle Bachelet Jeria, President 
of the Republic of Chile
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Chile.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Chile,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria, 
President of the Republic of Chile, and to invite her to 
address the Assembly.
President  Bachelet  Jeria  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
want  to  begin  by  sending  a  fraternal  greeting  to  the 
people  of  Mexico,  and  especially  to  the  relatives  and 
friends  of  the  victims  of  the  terrible  earthquake  that 
struck  that  fraternal  country  yesterday.  I  also  convey 
my  sentiments  to  the  victims  and  all  those  affected 
by  the  hurricanes  that  in  recent  weeks  and  days  have 
caused  enormous  damage  in  the  region  and,  in  some 
cases, irreparable losses.
Those most recent catastrophes, caused by hurricanes 
more frequent and violent than usual — largely due to 
the warming of the oceans — remind us that we are at 
a key moment in the history of humankind, a defining 
moment that will have repercussions on our lives and on 
the lives of our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 
While the challenges we face today are different from 
those that gave rise to the Organization 72 years ago, 
they are as relevant and as defining as those faced by 
the postwar generation. 
On  the  one  hand,  the  notion  of  development 
that  has  prevailed  until  now  has  been  shaken  by  the 
8/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
relentless reality of climate change. We can close our 
eyes  and  deny  a  reality  whose  devastating  effects 
will  become  more  frequent  and  intense,  or  we  can 
assume  our  responsibility.  Beyond  reducing  carbon 
dioxide emissions, that implies daring to transform our 
production  models  and  rethinking  the  type  of  growth 
we wish to promote.
On  the  other  hand,  at  a  time  when  there  is 
democracy in so many countries as never before, we see 
a  citizenry  that  has  grown  impatient  with  institutions 
whose  legitimacy  has  been  called  into  question  by 
corruption, inequality and inefficiency with regard to 
citizens’ most urgent demands.
Finally,  in  an  international  scenario  marked  by 
uncertainty,  another  definition  is  required.  We  either 
let  each  State  attempt  to  impose  itself  and  take  the 
greatest advantage of its position, or we work actively 
for  common  peace  and  stability  by  strengthening  the 
multilateral  instruments  and  cooperation.  The  fact 
that  we  are  here  today  in  this  Hall,  where  so  many 
have  touted  the  strength  of  peaceful  and  collective 
work,  requires  us  to  look  at  the  risks  we  face  and 
take  on  individual  and  collective  tasks,  weighing  the 
consequences of inaction.
Today I bring the voice of Chile — a country that 
has learned from its history, a country that has known 
pain,  but  also  hope.  Beyond  its  geographical  location 
in  the  extreme  south  of  the  American  continent, 
my  country  is  in  fact  not  far  from  the  world.  Quite 
the  contrary,  it  is  fully  within  it.  We  therefore  know 
that  many  of  the  great  local  challenges  are,  and  will 
continue to be, global challenges, and that each global 
challenge must also find a local response. There is no 
room for fatalism in the face of those challenges. Today 
I bring the message of realistic optimism. It is possible 
to reverse past decisions, overcome inertia and correct 
our path. That is true for small and large countries, be 
they in the centre or on the periphery. 
The  enormous  strength  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  is  precisely  that  they 
not  only  propose  a  new  approach  to  improving  the 
living conditions of people, they propose that we do it 
together,  based  on  the  strengths  of  each  country.  Our 
commitment  to  national  tasks  is  bolstered  by  contact 
with  others.  Faced  with  the  choice  of  whether  or  not 
to  join  the  fight  against  climate  change,  we  have 
not  doubted  —  simply  because  there  is  no  room  for 
denialism or selfish postures.
In line with SDG 14, on the oceans, and the Paris 
Agreement,  my  country  has  launched  a  national 
action  plan  for  climate  change.  Among  the  measures 
already under way are the green tax on carbon dioxide 
emissions  from  fixed  sources  and  the  transformation 
we  have  made  in  the  energy  sector.  Since  the  start 
of  this  Administration,  non-conventional  renewable 
energy has gone from 6.3 per cent to 17 per cent of our 
matrix, and our goal is to reach 90 per cent by 2050. 
That  is  possible,  because  we  have  already  started  the 
energy transition.
In addition, we have been active in the Our Oceans 
initiative.  We  have  created  new  marine  parks  and 
marine-protected  areas.  Almost  half  of  our  exclusive 
economic  zone 
the 
historic  figure  of  1,329,000  square  kilometres  under 
marine conservation.
today,  reaching 
is  protected 
While  we  have  made  significant  progress  in  that 
direction, we are aware that we must address another 
threat to marine ecosystems — plastics. Year after year, 
8 million tons of plastic make their way to the ocean, 
remaining  there  for  hundreds  of  years  and  making 
a  huge  negative  impact.  To  tackle  that  problem,  we 
participate  in  the  Clean  Seas  campaign  of  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Programme.  Meanwhile,  at  the 
local level, we will present a draft bill to ban the use of 
plastic bags in coastal cities within 12 months. That law 
will  permit  citizens  to  contribute  to  the  protection  of 
the oceans. We will thus be the first country in America 
to  implement  that  type  of  law,  and  we  call  on  other 
countries to assume that responsibility.
Additionally, it is now 30 years since the adoption 
of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the 
Ozone Layer, which enabled the ozone layer to recover. 
On this thirtieth anniversary, I would like to announce 
that  my  country  has  just  deposited  its  ratification  of 
the 2016 Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol, 
which aims to prevent 0.5°C of global warming. Chile 
thereby becomes one of the first countries to ratify that 
new agreement. But that is not all. With the creation of 
a  network  of  parks  in  Patagonia,  we  have  also  added 
4.5 million hectares of green areas, rich in biodiversity, 
which will now be protected by the State for public use.
That  shows  that  it  is  possible  to  move  forward 
when there is will, when the public and private worlds 
join  forces.  Sustainable  development  is  not  a  desire 
17-29400
9/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
impossible  to  finance.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  the  best 
way for economic activity to be sustained over time.
But as I said at the beginning of my remarks, this is 
not the only dilemma. We also share pressing challenges 
in  terms  of  democracy  and  inclusion.  International 
experience has helped us and alerted us to the need to 
take  charge  of  improving  our  democratic  institutions, 
as well as transparency and probity in both politics and 
business, putting a brake on corruption.
The President took the Chair.
In  that  connection,  we  substantially  modified 
the  electoral  system  that  we  inherited  from  the 
dictatorship, making it more proportional and inclusive 
and guaranteeing a minimum quota of 40 per cent for 
female candidates. Along with that, we made changes 
to the regulations that govern the financing of electoral 
campaigns  and  political  parties  so  that  money  does 
not define the outcome of elections. And we are in the 
process of a participatory drafting of a new constitution 
that is more modern and democratic.
that 
But  we  understand 
strengthening  our 
democracy  is  not  enough  if  we  do  not  respond  to  the 
demand  for  greater  individual  liberties  and  rights  for 
people.  That  is  why  we  have  made  decisive  progress 
in  expanding  sexual  and  reproductive  freedoms  and 
rights. Of course, that movement towards higher levels 
of individual freedom must be accompanied by social 
policies that promote equality and solidarity and expand 
people’s capacities. That is why education is at the heart 
of our reforms.
In  less  than  four  years,  we  have  implemented 
important  changes  to  ensure,  on  the  one  hand,  that 
people will have the education they need and deserve, 
regardless  of 
their  socioeconomic  situation,  and, 
on  the  other,  that  Chile  can  count  on  professionals 
and  technicians  in  the  most  important  areas  for  its 
development.  We  have  done  that  by  enacting  reforms 
from nursery school to higher education, and we have 
put public education at the centre of that movement. We 
are gradually increasing access to free education, first 
for lower-income families — next year, 60 per cent of 
our  students  will  be  have  access  to  higher  education 
free of charge — and then for the entire population.
That  is  our  way  of  promoting  the  idea  that  there 
can  be  no  individual  progress  without  collective 
progress, that there can be no lasting well-being where 
a  few  privileged  groups  become  disconnected  from 
the  most  disadvantaged.  That  is  our  way  of  realizing 
that well-being must be founded on a common link and 
universal values in order to become a reality.
Lastly,  with  regard  to  the  third  definition  we  are 
called  upon  to  understand,  I  unreservedly  state  that 
Chile maintains an unchanging strategic understanding 
of  peace,  democracy,  human  rights  and  the  rights 
of  migrants,  and  free  trade.  For  that  reason,  I  cannot 
help  but  mention  the  situation  of  our  brother  country 
Venezuela.  Chile,  together  with  11  countries  in  the 
region,  has  called  for  credible  dialogue  between  the 
Government  and  the  opposition.  We  are  prepared  to 
play  the  role  that  Venezuelans  deem  appropriate  in 
order to achieve good results in a peaceful, political and 
democratic manner.
In the same vein, we are not the only ones to express 
our concern about the threats to peace in different parts 
of  the  world,  such  as  the  Middle  East  and  areas  of 
Africa  and  Eastern  Europe,  in  particular  with  regard 
to the insistence on the use of nuclear weapons, which 
tests  the  very  limits  of  peaceful  coexistence.    As  we 
have  publicly  indicated,  we  hope  that  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea will stop the nuclear tests, 
comply  with  the  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council, 
contribute  to  guaranteeing  lasting  stability  in  North-
East  Asia  and  agree  to  resolve  the  situation  through 
peaceful diplomatic and political channels.
In 
that  context,  we  actively  participated 
in 
negotiations  for  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of 
Nuclear Weapons, which we signed this morning. That 
historic  act  creates  a  standard  that  sets  the  basis  for 
future  negotiations,  making  it  possible  to  completely 
eliminate nuclear weapons in a verifiable, irreversible 
manner.
Along  with  that,  I  wish  to  express  our  pride  and 
satisfaction  at  having  participated  for  13  years,  with 
more  than  12,000  men  and  women,  in  the  troop  and 
police contingents of the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti.  We  have  renewed  our  commitment 
to  continuing  to  participate  in  cooperation  with  our 
specialized  police  in  the  United  Nations  Mission  for 
Justice  Support  in  Haiti.  Furthermore,  as  part  of  our 
policy on cooperation for development, Haiti has been 
made a priority partner, like the Caribbean and Central 
America,  in  programmes  to  improve  institutions, 
security, enterprise and professional training.
Along the same lines, I also wish to highlight the 
participation of Chilean observers in the peace process 
10/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
in  Colombia,  who  are  wrapping  up  the  first  special 
political  mission  and  initiating  the  transition  to  the 
second.  Chile  also  participated  in  the  first  stage  of 
the  process  with  the  Revolutionary  Armed  Forces  of 
Colombia, and we are now participating as a garantor 
in  conversations  between  the  Colombian  Government 
and the National Liberation Army.
We do not believe only in the peaceful resolution 
of  conflicts  and  disputes,  but  also  in  the  enormous 
opportunities  opened  up  by  trade.  We  have  worked 
intensely  with  our  bilateral  partners  and  with  the 
Pacific  Alliance  to  create  what  we  call  convergence 
in  diversity.  Latin  American  countries  should  come 
together on the basis of that which unites us instead of 
dwelling on our differences. That is to say, on each and 
every  issue  that  pertains  to  international  coexistence, 
we  have  affirmed,  and  will  continue  to  reaffirm,  our 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  the  existence  of 
rules that guarantee the fair treatment of each country.
Like  other  middle-income  countries,  my  country 
faces  major  short-  and  medium-term  challenges. 
That is why we value the multidimensional vision for 
development set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  the  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  which  recognize 
the  differences  between 
countries  and  gaps  in  development  that  are  obscured 
when  the  only  measurement  of  development  is  per 
capita income.
Yet  it  appears  that  we  are  facing  a  contradiction. 
Middle-income  countries, 
including  many  small 
island  developing  States  in  the  Caribbean,  are  being 
graduated  by  the  Development  Assistance  Committee 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  solely  for  having  passed  the  per-capita 
income criterion. Where, then, is the multidimensional 
criterion of the 2030 Agenda?
Faced  with  that  situation,  Chile,  together  with 
other  countries  in  the  region,  has  spoken  out  and 
requested that a serious dialogue be initiated regarding 
the  incorporation  of  multidimensional  criteria  in  the 
definition of development. Together with Jamaica, we 
are launching a new initiative, the Resilient 20, which 
seeks  to  create  an  alliance  to  promote  resilience  in 
countries that are vulnerable to natural disasters, with 
a  focus  on  middle-income  countries  but  not  limited 
to them.
Faced with the challenges presented by governance 
of the international community, I reaffirm the value of 
this  Assembly  and  this  Organization.  That  is  why  we 
support  the  transformations  promoted  by  Secretary-
General António Guterres for managing the Secretariat, 
which  will  facilitate  decision-making  in  key  sectors 
in  both  policy  and  administrative  issues  as  well  as 
promote  confidence  between  Member  States  and  the 
Organization. We have also supported the readjustments 
to the process of selecting and appointing the Secretary-
General so as to make it more transparent and inclusive 
of all Member States. The long-awaited reform of the 
Security  Council,  to  make  it  more  democratically 
representative and fitting for the realities of the world 
today, is still pending.
The President took the Chair.
The  world  is  seen  differently  from  the  South. 
While we still see vast sectors of our countries without 
access  to  the  most  basic  public  services,  and  when 
there is still hunger, segregation, precarious work and 
enormous inequality, there is only one conclusion: we 
have  a  long  way  to  go  for  the  agenda  of  solidarity  to 
overcome the agenda of selfishness and indifference. It 
is true that some of those challenges are not exclusive 
to  emerging  countries  —  advanced  democracies  are 
also  experiencing  them.  But  the  demands  continue  to 
be far more basic in the South. Chile has made major 
progress.  In  several  areas  we  have  reached  standards 
that  near  those  of  developed  countries,  and  we  are 
proud of those gains.
However,  there  are  still  many  countries  in  Latin 
America,  Africa  and  Asia  that  are  facing  histories  of 
pain and frustration. We share with them a history of 
effort and hope that bonds us together in the present and 
the future. Because we have known scarcity, we know 
what it is to fight to break free of underdevelopment, 
as  well  as  the  fear  of  falling  back  into  its  grasp.  We 
also  know  what  it  is  to  be  a  middle-income  country 
with a healthy, solid economy yet with dramatic gaps in 
equality and opportunity for its inhabitants.
We therefore know at first hand the need to make 
changes, but also that change must come about through 
solidarity, which we claim not only for individuals but 
also for peoples. To share, cooperate and collaborate is 
the first step in societies caring for themselves, to regard 
the present and the future with greater certainty. Today 
it is true that the needs of the global scene are different, 
but  they  are  urgent  and  require  historic  efforts  from 
one  and  from  all.  We  must  cooperate  on  the  level  of 
each country on projects coordinated between nations 
17-29400
11/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
and guided by a clear agenda that inspires us all and to 
which we can all contribute.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Chile 
for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  Jeria,  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Raimonds Vējonis, President of the 
Republic of Latvia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Latvia.
Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Latvia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Latvia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  Vējonis:  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to 
express my solidarity to the Mexican people, who are 
dealing with the aftermath of a devastating earthquake.
to  congratulate  you, 
Mr.  Lajčák,  on  assuming  the  post  of  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its current session. I am sure you 
will make our region proud.
the  outset,  I  wish 
At 
The  United  Nations  is,  and  will  be,  the  central 
forum  for  multilateralism  and  a  rules-based  global 
order. This is the place where all nations come together 
to carry out our shared responsibility to deliver peace 
and  security,  advance  human  rights  and  sustainable 
development and cooperate for a better future. As the 
truly global Organization, the United Nations must be 
able to effectively respond to the serious global issues 
that we face: regional conflicts and humanitarian crises, 
the threat of terrorism, insecurity related to migration, 
climate change and poverty. Individuals and their need 
for peace and a decent life are at the centre of all those 
challenges. We must be able to deliver on those needs 
as individual nations and as the United Nations.
It is no secret that the Organization has grown too 
complex and bureaucratic to be able to respond swiftly 
to today’s challenges. Some even question its credibility 
and  relevance.  Latvia  also  wishes  to  see  the  United 
Nations become more effective, more transparent and 
more  flexible  so  that  it  can  can  make  a  positive,  real 
influence  for  people  on  the  ground.  While  the  most 
recent  global  agreements  have  shown  that  effective 
multilateralism  is  possible,  we  must  bring  the  values 
and goals of the United Nations closer to the people. The 
United Nations must preserve and, in some instances, 
regain,  the  trust  of  citizens  and  Member  States  in  its 
ability to prevent and respond to crises and to promote 
a rules-based global order.
The new Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, 
was  appointed  on  a  platform  of  change.  Latvia 
welcomes his appointment and fully supports his vision 
of  a  more  effective  United  Nations.  The  Secretary-
General’s  actions  and  ideas  related  to  qualitative 
change  and  reforms  in  the  United  Nations  are  very 
encouraging  signs.  Reform  is  never  an  easy  task,  but 
with  patience,  clear  goals  and  the  cooperation  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  Member  States,  reform  is 
possible.  The  Secretary-General  has  our  full  support 
for his endeavours.
All  people  on  the  planet  need  peace.  For  people 
to  fully  realize  their  potential,  a  stable  and  secure 
environment is essential. In too many places, conflicts 
seem  to  have  no  end.  The  very  basic  principles  of 
international  law  are  violated,  borders  are  changed 
by  force  and  human  lives  suffer.  Far  too  often,  the 
United  Nations  has  been  unable  to  prevent  conflicts, 
stop atrocities or build peace. Too often, resources are 
spent  managing  and  responding  to  crises  instead  of 
preventing them.
The  Security  Council  bears 
for  ensuring  peace. 
a  particular 
responsibility 
Its  members, 
especially  the  veto-wielding  members,  should  move 
beyond their domestic interests in the name of genuinely 
addressing global challenges. People see the failures of 
the  Security  Council  as  failures  of  the  Organization. 
We  cannot  expect  trust  in  the  United  Nations  if  the 
Security Council does not deliver. Latvia also reiterates 
its  call  for  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  which  is 
long overdue.
From his first day on the job, the Secretary-General 
has made a strong appeal for peace and the prevention 
of  conflicts.  We  fully  support  him  in  that  endeavour. 
Conflict prevention must be at the core of actions of the 
United Nations in order to keep situations of concern 
from spiralling out of control. Saving human lives and 
upholding human dignity must be our common priority.
12/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
Tools  for  prevention  have  long  been  available, 
including  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  but 
we need to move from mere commitments to preserve 
a  rules-based  global  order  to  actions  to  restore  that 
order  where  it  has  been  broken.  Latvia  will  continue 
to promote democracy, good governance, human rights 
and the rule of law as key factors for global stability.
Security is truly a global issue today. In particular, 
Latvia  is  deeply  worried  about  the  proliferation  of 
weapons of mass destruction and the threat of the use of 
nuclear weapons. North Korea’s actions have increased 
global insecurity. Latvia strongly condemns all nuclear 
tests  and  launches  of  ballistic  missiles  conducted  by 
North  Korea,  as  well  as  its  continuous  provocative 
rhetoric. We call on North Korea to return to a credible 
and  meaningful  dialogue  with 
international 
community and to refrain from any further action that 
would increase regional tensions. It is a priority to find 
a  peaceful  and  diplomatic  solution  to  that  situation. 
In  the  meantime,  all  States  must  fully  implement  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions.
the 
The  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  which 
blatantly  disregards  Syria’s  obligations  as  a  party  to 
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention,  is  a  deplorable 
crime that must be fully investigated. The perpetrators 
must  be  held  accountable.  Latvia  has  constantly 
called  for  accountability  regarding  those  attacks,  an 
accountability  that  is  closely  linked  to  the  credibility 
of  the  whole  international  system.  For  that  reason, 
Latvia  has  supported  the  International,  Impartial  and 
Independent Mechanism for the Syrian Arab Republic 
to  assist  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  serious 
crimes committed in Syria. We will continue to support 
the Syrian people and the United Nations-led political 
process  towards  a  political  resolution  of  that  bloody 
conflict, which has lasted far too long.
Global terrorism is one of the most serious threats 
to  international  peace  and  security.  The  unwavering 
efforts  of  the  Global  Coalition  against  Da’esh  have 
degraded  the  capabilities  of  Da’esh  across  all  fronts. 
Latvia  welcomes  the  important  victories  achieved, 
including  the  liberation  of  Mosul  in  Iraq.  However, 
our fight is far from over, and we have to think about 
new  strategies  and  secure  new  domains  as  the  threat 
of  terrorism  becomes  more  asymmetric  and  globally 
dispersed.  Besides  military  efforts,  we  must  continue 
to  disrupt  the  flow  of  foreign  terrorist  fighters, 
dismantle  financing  networks  and  counter  online 
and  offline  propaganda  that  sets  youth  on  a  path 
towards radicalization.
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  Riga  Protocol  on 
foreign terrorist fighters — the Additional Protocol to 
the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of 
Terrorism — entered into force in July. We encourage 
more  States  to  accede  to  that  instrument  in  order  to 
address  the  threat  at  hand,  which  affects  countries  of 
origin and of destination.
International  support  will  be  required  to  help 
stabilize  liberated  areas  in  Syria  and  Iraq  in  order  to 
allow  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  to 
return and start rebuilding their lives. Latvia provides 
training to Iraqi security forces and financial support 
for stabilization efforts.
is  essential 
Solving  existing  conflicts 
for 
preventing new ones. We must stand firm in upholding 
the rules-based security order in Europe. The territorial 
integrity  of  independent  States  must  be  respected  by 
all,  including  by  the  Russian  Federation.  Russia’s 
unprovoked  aggression  against  its  neighbours  is  a 
serious  breach  of  international  security  rules.  There 
must  be  accountability  for  violations  of  international 
law  for  any  aggressor  that  initiates  or  sustains  such 
conflicts.
A  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict  in  Ukraine 
and  respect  for  Ukraine’s  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  are  priorities  for  Latvia.  Russia’s  continued 
aggression in eastern Ukraine and the illegal annexation 
of Crimea and Sevastopol cannot become business as 
usual. We support diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis 
under the Normandy format and within the framework 
of  the  Trilateral  Contact  Group  so  as  to  achieve  the 
full  implementation  of  the  Minsk  agreements  by  all 
the  parties  involved.  International  monitors  must  be 
granted access to Crimea, and human rights violations 
against residents of Crimea, including Crimean Tatars, 
must stop.
The United Nations, along with the relevant regional 
actors,  should  remain  involved  in,  and  committed  to, 
facilitating the resolution of the protracted conflicts in 
Nagorno Karabakh, Transnistria, Abkhazia and South 
Ossetia.
Last  year  (see  A/71/PV.12)  I  stressed  that  the 
strengthening  of  the  development  and  security  nexus 
must become our mission. Our priority must be to achieve 
peace and a decent life for everyone, including the most 
17-29400
13/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
vulnerable  among  us.  We  must  tackle  the  root  causes 
preventing us from attaining sustainable development. 
If conflicts, hardship and poverty continue, migration 
and the flow of refugees will further increase. The far-
reaching  impact  of  climate  change  on  global  security 
cannot simply be disregarded. We must carry on with 
our joint commitment to tackle climate change so that 
coming generations can live sustainably on this planet 
in a sustainable way. Latvia is fully committed to the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement.
the  2030  Agenda 
Now  is  the  time  to  put  in  place  the  mechanisms 
of 
implementation  of 
for 
Sustainable  Development.  That  needs  to  be  done  at 
all  levels  —  national,  regional  and  global  —  in  true 
partnership  with  all  stakeholders.  We  welcome  the 
current  review  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system to fulfil the ambitious goals of the 2030 Agenda. 
Next year Latvia will present a voluntary national review 
of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda to the United 
Nations  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development. Our national focus is to put people first, as 
that will lead to long-lasting development gains. Latvia 
is ready to share its experience with implementing the 
2030 Agenda through development cooperation.
To enjoy peace and development, our societies need 
space  and  institutions  for  free,  open  and  enlightened 
public  debate  where  truth  can  be  sought,  knowledge 
shared  and  lies  exposed.  Such  belief  is  also  at  the 
heart  of  our  approach  to  countering  purposeful  and 
malicious  propaganda  and  disinformation  emanating 
from  both  State  and  non-State  actors.  Our  answer  to 
that challenge is to reassert the fundamental principles 
of freedom of speech and press and the independence 
of  the  media.  Both  nationally  and  internationally, 
we  are  committed  to  supporting  the  development  of 
independent,  professional,  transparent  and  objective 
media and journalism, and to increasing the resilience 
of our societies by investing in stronger critical thinking 
skills, as well as media and information literacy.
In conclusion, let me reiterate that Latvia remains 
a  strong  advocate  of  the  multilateral  system  and 
believes  in  an  effective  and  efficient  United  Nations, 
guided by the values on which it was founded. It is time 
for  the  United  Nations  to  adapt  to  a  changing  global 
environment,  focus  on  priorities  and  deliver  results. 
The  Secretary-General  cannot  do  that  alone.  We  all 
must  work  together  to  ensure  that  our  Organization 
functions better and is fit for its purpose.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Latvia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Raimonds  Vējonis,  President  of  the  Republic 
of Latvia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address  by  Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the 
Republic of South Africa
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa.
 Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic 
of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President Zuma: I take this opportunity to express 
South Africa’s solidarity with the fraternal Governments 
and  the  peoples  of  the  Caribbean  following  waves  of 
devastating  hurricanes  that  have  resulted  in  loss  of 
life, injuries and serious damage to infrastructure and 
property.  Our  thoughts  are  also  with  the  Government 
and the people of Mexico in the wake of the earthquake 
that rocked Mexico City yesterday.
I wish to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session.  I  assure  you  of  South 
Africa’s  full  support  in  the  implementation  of  your 
priorities  and  responsibilities  throughout  your  term. 
We also commend Mr. Peter Thompson of Fiji for his 
exceptional leadership during the Assembly’s seventy-
first  session.  I  warmly  congratulate  Mr.  António 
Guterres  on  his  appointment  as 
the  Secretary-
General. We also congratulateMr. Ban Ki-moon on his 
successsful tenure.
theme 
We  have  chosen  an  appropriate 
for 
this  debate,  given  the  challenges  facing  the  world 
today — “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and 
a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. The theme 
encompasses  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations: 
peace  and  security,  humanitarian  affairs  and  human 
rights, and socioeconomic and sustainable development.
14/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
The  adoption  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs), two years ago, in order to continue the 
unfinished  business  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals marked a significant shift and historic moment 
in  the  life  of  the  United  Nations.  We  all  committed 
ourselves  to  addressing  the  challenges  of  poverty, 
underdevelopment and inequality. However, a lot more 
still  needs  to  be  done  to  promote  a  more  equal  and 
just socioeconomic world order so that we can achieve 
the SDGs.
The  current  structure  of  the  global  economy 
continues  to  deepen  the  divide  between  the  global 
North and global South. While a few enjoy the benefits 
of  globalization,  the  majority  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world  still  live  in  abject  poverty  and  hunger,  with  no 
hope  of  ever  improving  their  living  conditions.  Even 
within developed countries, the gap between rich and 
poor remains wide and is of serious concern. We need 
political  will  and  commitment  from  global  leaders 
to  address  the  challenges  and  obstacles  posed  by  the 
untransformed structure of the global economy, if we 
hope to achieve the goals and ambitions of 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
Those unequal and unjust economic power relations 
manifest  themselves  sharply  in  Africa.  For  example, 
our  continent  is  endowed  with  mineral  resources, 
but  it  still  has  the  highest  number  of  least  developed 
countries.  Many  developed  countries  continue  to 
fuel  their  development  from  the  resources  of  the 
African continent.
its  resources 
The  continent  also  continues  to  lose  a  significant 
portion  of 
illicit  financial 
outflows.  Africa  loses  billions  of  dollars  that  it 
otherwise  would  utilize  to  develop  the  continent  and 
to provide for education, health care, housing and other 
critical basic needs for the African populations.
through 
Money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance, 
transfer  pricing  by  multinational 
corruption  and 
companies  are  some  of  the  biggest  challenges  to 
economic  growth  and  stability.  They  undermine  the 
integrity  of  the  global  financial  system,  efficient  tax 
collection  and  equitable  allocation  of  resources.  We 
appeal  for  the  cooperation  and  commitment  of  every 
State Member of the United Nations and the international 
community  at  large  to  address  that  phenomenon. 
Developed countries in particular have a historical and 
moral obligation to contribute to achieving a fair global 
economic environment and to eradicate the scourge of 
illicit financial flows from the continent.
The United Nations should also play a central role 
in addressing this problem. We therefore welcome the 
adoption by the General Assembly of resolution 71/213, 
entitled  “Promotion  on 
international  cooperation 
to  combat  illicit  financial  flows  in  order  to  foster 
sustainable  development”.  It  is  a  preliminary  step 
towards a global architecture to tackle the scourge and 
impacts of illicit financial flows.
The  issue  of  global  peace  and  security  continues 
to be one of the pillars of the United Nations agenda. 
South Africa reaffirms its commitment to cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional and subregional 
organizations, particularly the African Union (AU), in 
matters  relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. We welcome the continued support 
for the AU’s efforts to resolve conflicts on the African 
continent  through  promoting  African  solutions  to 
African problems and challenges. As Africans, we are 
doing everything possible to reach our goal of silencing 
the  guns  by  2020,  as  set  out  in  our  Agenda  2063,  a 
continental  blueprint  for  a  peaceful,  prosperous  and 
democratic Africa. In that regard, we continue to make 
significant  progress  in  resolving  challenges  to  peace 
and security in our continent.
We  hope  that  soon  the  sister  people  of  Libya 
will be able to live in peace and harmony in a united 
and  democratic  country.  In  2011,  the  African  Union 
called  for  dialogue  to  resolve  the  crisis  in  Libya. 
Unfortunately, some of us present here opted for guns 
and bombs, and today those countries are making little 
effort  to  promote  stability  in  Libya.  The  major  focus 
and  preoccupation  has  become  how  to  deal  with  the 
flow of migrants arriving in Europe from our continent 
and  the  Middle  East,  which  is  a  mere  symptom. 
The  war  in  Libya  has  contributed  a  great  deal  to  the 
destabilization of the Sahel region all the way to Central 
Africa,  creating  a  corridor  for  illicit  arms  trafficking 
and terrorist activities. In fact, had our warning been 
heeded that the supply of arms to civilians in Libya and 
the arming of civilians in Syria would cause loss of life, 
great instability and mayhem, the world would be more 
peaceful today.
South  Africa  continues  to  call  for  an  immediate 
end  to  the  violence  and  for  a  Syrian-led  political 
transition and a negotiated settlement that reflects the 
will of the Syrian people. In both instances — of Libya 
17-29400
15/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
and  Syria  —  we  strongly  cautioned  against  seeking 
to  resolve  internal  challenges  of  sovereign  States  by 
imposing  foreign  solutions  through  military  means. 
It  is  hoped  that  lessons  will  be  learned  from  those 
tragic  episodes  in  order  to  make  the  world  a  more 
peaceful place.
We  continue  our  call  for  calm  on  the  Korean 
peninsula.  The  situation  cannot  be  allowed  to  get  out 
of  hand.  As  a  country  that  voluntarily  dismantled  its 
nuclear-weapon  programme,  South  Africa  is  of  the 
firm  view  that  there  are  no  safe  hands  for  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  The  only  viable  solution  to  the 
problems of nuclear weapons is their total elimination, 
as expressed in the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons,  recently  adopted  by  the  United  Nations 
conference to negotiate a legally binding instrument to 
prohibit  nuclear  weapons,  leading  towards  their  total 
elimination. It can no longer be acceptable that a few 
countries  maintain  arsenals  and  stockpiles  of  nuclear 
weapons as part of their strategic defence and security 
doctrine,  while  expecting  others  to  remain  at  their 
mercy. We are concerned that any possible accidental 
detonation would lead to a disaster of epic proportions.
We are making a clarion call to all States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  to  sign  and  ratify  the  nuclear-
weapon-ban  treaty  in  order  to  rid  the  world  and 
humankind of these lethal weapons of mass destruction. 
At  the  same  time,  we  reaffirm  the  inalienable  right 
of  States  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  as 
reinforced  in  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  South  Africa  is  today  proud  to  be 
the  biggest  producer  of  medical  isotopes  used  in  the 
treatment of cancer patients globally. We will continue 
to  harness  the  peaceful  uses  of  atoms  in  addressing 
challenges of socioeconomic development.
As we stand here, the Security Council is paralysed 
and unable to carry out its Charter responsibilities for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
We remain steadfast in our call for the reform of that 
critical organ of the United Nations. We hope that the 
Secretary-General, working with the entire membership, 
can provide some impetus towards fulfilling this long-
awaited ideal. Failure to do so will result in the United 
Nations irreversibly losing its legitimacy.
Mr. Biang (Gabon), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  empathy 
and  solidarity  with  all  the  victims  of  the  devastating 
hurricanes, monsoons, floods and droughts as a result 
of  climate  change.  Those  phenomena  are  proof  that 
climate change is real and that, if we do not act now, 
future generations will suffer untold consequences. The 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change is a milestone in 
the history of efforts to address climate change and all 
its consequences. We should resist all efforts to unravel 
and undermine the Paris Agreement. Our efforts should 
be directed at the mobilization of the resources required 
for its implementation.
For South Africa, the seventy-second session of the 
General Assembly coincides with the centenary of Oliver 
Reginald  Tambo,  who  led  our  liberation  movement, 
the  African  National  Congress,  for  three  decades  in 
the  struggle  against  apartheid  and  racism  in  South 
Africa. O.R. Tambo travelled all over the continent of 
Africa and the globe, mobilizing international support 
for  the  struggle  against  racial  discrimination  and  the 
oppressive  apartheid  regime.  He  strongly  believed  in 
the role of multilateralism and in the centrality of the 
United  Nations.  It  was  for  that  reason  that  he  spent  a 
lot  of  time  in  the  rooms  and  corridors  of  this  United 
Nations  building,  mobilizing  members  to  take  firm 
action  against  the  apartheid  regime  in  South  Africa. 
As  we  celebrate  what  would  have  been  O.R.  Tambo’s 
one-hundredth  birthday,  we  take  this  opportunity  as 
a country once again to thank the United Nations and 
the international community for their support for and 
solidarity with our struggle for liberation.
If  O.R.  Tambo  were  still  alive  today,  he  would 
have pleaded with the Organization to do all it can to 
support  the  struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people  against 
occupation and to support the struggle of the people of 
Western  Sahara.  The  world  has  preached  a  two-State 
solution for the situation in Palestine, yet we have seen 
the  expansion  of  illegal  settlements  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian 
the  General 
Assembly  that  the  same  resolve  shown  in  supporting 
the  South  African  struggle  for  liberation  should  be 
shown  towards  ending  the  apartheid  practices  against 
the people of Palestine.
territory.  We  appeal 
to 
We  also  wish  to  remind  the  General  Assembly 
that the right of the people of Western Sahara to self-
determination continues to be undermined, challenged 
and  denied.  The  United  Nations  must  remain  seized 
with that issue, for the benefit of the people of Western 
Sahara and the African aspirations for integration and 
peaceful coexistence.
16/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
I also wish to register South Africa’s disappointment 
at the decision of the United States Administration in 
June to reverse the progress that was made in the past 
two years towards ending the Cuban blockade.
South Africa stands ready to work with the United 
Nations to promote peace, human rights and sustainable 
development.  As  said  by  our  liberation  icon  Oliver 
Reginald Tambo,
“We seek to live in peace with our neighbours and 
the peoples of the world in conditions of equality, 
mutual respect and equal advantage.”
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of South Africa for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic of South 
Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
Address  by  Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the 
Republic of Namibia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Hage Geingob, 
President of the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Geingob: The President made a profound 
statement in saying,
“The United Nations was created for people. Its job 
is to help people who are striving for peace and a 
decent life, on a sustainable planet.”
Namibia  congratulates  Mr.  Lajčák  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session.  We  pledge  our  full  support  to  advancing  a 
people-centred approach to doing business at the United 
Nations.  We  also  commend  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson  for  his  outstanding  stewardship  during  his 
tenure as President of the General Assembly.
Yesterday 
the  Secretary-General  stressed  his 
commitment towards global unity and multilateralism 
by saying,
“We  call  ourselves  the  international  community. 
We must act as one, because only together, as united 
nations, can we fulfil the promise of the Charter of 
the United Nations and advance human dignity for 
all.” (A/72/PV.3, p. 4)
As the people of Namibia, we will do everything within 
our  capabilities  to  support  his  noble  cause  during  his 
tenure  as  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization.  We 
also congratulate Ms. Amina Mohamed, a daughter of 
Africa,  for  her  well-deserved  appointment  as  Deputy 
Secretary-General. Let us also not forget His Excellency 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon and the sterling job he did during his 
tenure as Secretary-General.
Development that is not driven by the people and 
does not translate into improved living conditions for 
all  people  is  meaningless  development.  Moreover, 
development  that  does  not  reach  all  people  in  an 
equitable  manner  will  only  undermine  the  peace 
and  stability  necessary  for  sustainable  development. 
Growing  income  disparities,  between  and  within 
nations,  pose  the  greatest  threat  to  peace  within 
countries and globally.
We  in  Namibia  overcame  the  inhumane  scourge 
of colonial oppression and racial segregation. Through 
a  deliberate  policy  of  national  reconciliation,  we 
succeeded in entrenching peace, security and stability 
as  the  pillars  of  our  democracy.  We  also  made 
significant  progress  in  reducing  absolute  and  relative 
poverty during the past 27 years. Poverty declined from 
a  high  of  70  per  cent  in  1993  to  18  per  cent  in  2015. 
That was in part due to the introduction of a wide range 
of social safety nets that cover close to 16 per cent of 
the  entire  population.  While  income  inequality  also 
declined during the same period, it did not decline by 
the same magnitude as poverty.
We  have  come  to  realize  that,  as  long  as  we 
continue to have poverty in Namibia, even if it is just 
10 per cent, we can never have lasting peace and social 
justice. Similarly, as long as the wealth of the country 
is disproportionately in the hands of a few, we cannot 
have lasting peace and stability. It is for that reason that 
we  have  declared  full-scale  war  against  poverty  and 
income  inequality.  We  have  also  declared  full-scale 
war against corruption, because corruption is one of the 
root causes of poverty and inequality.
17-29400
17/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
In  line  with  the  belief  that  people  must  be  at  the 
centre of development, we have coined the phrase “No 
Namibian  should  feel  left  out”.  The  logic  is  simple, 
for  inclusivity  spells  harmony  and  peace,  whereas 
exclusivity  spells  disaster,  conflict  and  potential  war. 
Therefore, we commend the President for his choice of a 
theme for this session: “Focusing on people: Striving for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”.
In  a  climate  of  ever-increasing  uncertainty  and 
unpredictability,  it  is  incumbent  upon  world  leaders 
to renew faith in multilateralism. The United Nations 
matters most because it is at the centre of the needs and 
desires of humankind. Therefore, it must be inclusive 
by  including  Africa  at  the  highest  decision-making 
level. By failing to do so, the United Nations runs the 
risk  of  losing  its  respectability.  The  only  sure  way 
to  restore  trust  in  the  United  Nations  will  be  for  the 
Security Council to become more inclusive.
The people of Namibia can testify to the importance 
of multilateralism. Namibia is a child of international 
solidarity,  conceived  through  the  valiant  struggle  of 
Namibian  patriots,  delivered  by  resolution  435  (1978) 
and  midwifed  by  the  United  Nations.  Today,  thanks 
to the support of the international community, we are 
an  independent  nation  founded  on  the  principles  of 
democracy, unity, stability, peace and the rule of law.
People-centred  development  should  not  extend 
to  only  a  small  part  of  the  population.  It  must  cover 
all  demographic  components.  Too  often,  the  largest 
demographic  component  in  our  societies  —  namely, 
our mothers, sisters and daughters — are excluded from 
development. In Namibia, we believe that gender equity 
is equally important for a stable and harmonious society. 
A policy decision by the ruling party to introduce 50-50 
representation at all party levels has led to a significant 
improvement  in  the  representation  of  females  to 
48 per cent in Namibia’s National Assembly. That is the 
second-highest level of representation on the continent 
and among the top five in the world.
To  give  further  meaning  to  that  policy  directive, 
women  have  also  been  appointed  to  key  positions  in 
the  executive  branch.  That  includes  the  young  Prime 
Minister  and  the  Deputy  Prime  Minster  —  who  is 
also  the  Minister  for  International  Relations  and 
Cooperation  —  the  Minister  and  Deputy  Minister  for 
Education, Arts and Culture, the Minister and Deputy 
Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, 
the Minister and Deputy Minister for Urban and Rural 
Development  and  the  Minister  for  Home  Affairs  and 
Immigration. Those are powerful positions.
Another  significant  demographic  component  that 
we must not neglect is the youth. We in Namibia value 
the empowerment of the youth. Many of the so-called 
older  guard  had  been  groomed  and  well  prepared  in 
the structures of the ruling party and the Government 
before they were assigned higher responsibilities. That 
practice  continues  with  a  number  of  young  deputy 
ministers. Our Attorney General is one of the youngest 
in the world. Very soon, the last crop of the Tanganyika 
group — the freedom fighters of the 1960s, including 
myself — will make way for the new breed.
When we adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development and acceded to the Paris Agreement, we 
not  only  reaffirmed  the  centrality  of  multilateralism; 
we also reaffirmed the reality of climate change. What 
has happened in Sierra Leone, the Caribbean and some 
parts of the United States — and we must also note the 
recent earthquake in Mexico — serve as grim reminders 
that  climate  change  is  real.  We  have  witnessed  the 
stripping away of human dignity, security and hope. We 
must increase our resolve to address the challenges of 
climate change.
In  order  to  achieve  the  ambitions  of  living  on  a 
sustainable  planet,  peace  processes  and  international 
peacebuilding  must  be  strengthened.  We  recognize 
the contribution of women in promoting global peace, 
both  in  peace  negotiations  and  through  their  active 
participation  in  peace  missions.  Namibia  supports 
efforts 
the  representation  of  women 
in  peace  missions  around  the  world,  especially  in 
leadership positions.
increase 
to 
Out  of  52  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and 
special political missions, 26 are in Africa. Therefore, 
we  recognize  the  institutional  partnership  between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  African  Union  in  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
partnership  not  only  enhances  cooperation  between 
the  two  institutions,  but  also  adds  greater  legitimacy 
to 
the  decisions 
the  Security  Council 
regarding Africa.
taken  by 
Africa  should  not  be  seen  only  as  a  source  of 
precious  primary  commodities  but  as  an  important 
and  equal  partner  of  the  international  community 
with  concrete  contributions  to  make.  In  that  context, 
we  welcome  the  recent  Joint  United  Nations-African 
Union  Framework  for  Enhanced  Partnership  in  Peace 
18/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
and Security, signed by the Secretary-General and the 
Chairperson of the African Union Commission, which 
will  enhance  coordination  between  the  Africa  Union 
and the United Nations.
Namibia  stands  together  with  the  international 
consensus that the Israeli occupation of Palestine must 
end.  We  reiterate  that  statehood  and  independence 
are  the  national,  inalienable  and  legal  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  We  join  the  call  for  the  two-
State solution to be pursued with renewed vigour and 
determination.
Similarly,  the  people  of  Western  Sahara  cannot 
continue  to  have  their  inalienable  rights  to  self-
determination  and  national 
independence  denied. 
Namibia  reaffirms  its  full  and  unequivocal  support 
for the rights of the people of Western Sahara to self-
determination. We call for the urgent implementation of 
all Security Council and General Assembly resolutions, 
with the aim of holding a free and fair referendum in 
Western Sahara.
Over  the  past  several  years,  Namibia  has  been 
noting the growing rapprochement between Cuba and 
the United States, which culminated in the reopening 
of embassies in the two countries. We believe that those 
efforts  should  lead  to  the  full  lifting  of  the  economic 
and  financial  embargo  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba 
and its people, who have the right to pursue peace and 
a decent life.
Namibia 
the 
Organization in its efforts to achieve global peace. As 
Albert  Einstein  once  said,  “Peace  cannot  be  kept  by 
force; it can only be achieved through understanding”. 
Let  us  therefore  try  to  be  more  tolerant  and  embrace 
diverse  views  through  dialogue  and  understanding, 
before  hastily  embarking  upon  a  path  of  force,  which 
will lead  only to conflict and, eventually, to war.
committed 
is 
to 
supporting 
The  United  Nations  is  a  great  social  experiment. 
It features small and large nations coexisting in peace 
and harmony. If the United Nations did not exist today, 
I  would  definitely  call  for  the  creation  of  such  an 
organization.  Let  us  continue  to  treasure  the  unity  of 
the United Nations, for it is only through unity that we 
will bring about a world free from fear and conflict. It 
is only through unity that we will bring about a world 
free from hunger and poverty. It is only through unity 
that we will deliver a sustainable planet for our children 
and their children.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Namibia for the statement just made.
Mr.  Hage  Geingob,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of 
Montenegro
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
Montenegro.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Filip 
Vujanović, President of Montenegro, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Vujanović  (spoke 
in  Montenegrin; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my 
pleasure  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second  session  and  to  reiterate  Montenegro’s 
strong commitment to the values of the United Nations.
As one of the newest Members of the Organization, 
Montenegro  actively  contributes 
to  maintaining 
peace  and  security  in  its  region.  Good-neighbourly 
relations  and  regional  cooperation  are  at  the  top  our 
foreign-policy  agenda.  We  are  strongly  committed  to 
multilateral  cooperation  and  affirm  our  support  for 
international organizations that contribute to peace and 
stability.
It is of great importance for Montenegro that it has 
become the twenty-ninth member of the North Atlantic 
Alliance. As a member of the Alliance, my country will 
continue  to  improve  its  cooperation  and  partnership 
with  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and 
with  regional  organizations  dedicated  to  establishing 
and maintaining peace and stability. At the same time, 
Montenegro has proved to be a reliable partner of the 
European Union. Accession negotiations have already 
ensured significant economic benefits.
The  international  community  is  facing  complex 
challenges  such  as  long-term  conflicts,  terrorism 
and  violent  extremism,  refugee  crises,  the  systematic 
violation  of  human  rights,  and  poverty.  The  United 
17-29400
19/21
A/72/PV.9 
20/09/2017
Nations,  which  was  established  to  prevent  war  and 
human  suffering,  should  adjust  more  quickly 
in 
response to those challenges and adopt new mechanisms 
to prevent conflicts and resolve long-term crises.
The United Nations and international and regional 
economic organizations have new responsibilities today. 
Peace,  stability,  achieving  sustainable  and  inclusive 
growth and improving international economic relations 
are the basic elements for achieving the goals set forth 
in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is 
therefore of great importance to carry out the successful 
implementation of the process of reforming the United 
Nations — and its affiliates the International Monetary 
Fund and the World Bank — in order to achieve more 
equitable  economic  growth,  poverty  eradication  and 
women’s economic empowerment, as well as to bridge 
the technological gap between countries and regions.
Montenegro  remains  dedicated  to  United  Nations 
efforts  aimed  at  implementing  the  ambitious  reform 
agenda, including the strengthening of the role of the 
General Assembly and the enlargement of the Security 
Council, in accordance with the principles of equitable 
regional 
cooperation 
between  Montenegro  and  the  United  Nations  system 
continues  in  the  framework  of  the  Delivering  as  One 
initiative. Positive results of this programme are visible 
and recognized by many States Members of the United 
Nations.
representation.  Successful 
Montenegro  is  part  of  a  region  whose  experience 
has  shown  that  dialogue  and  cooperation  are  possible 
and that they are the only way to overcome differences 
and  achieve  peace  and  lasting  solutions  to  problems. 
Accordingly, early next year, we will organize a regional 
conference  with  a  view  to  sharing  our  experience 
and  helping  to  define  new  mechanisms  for  conflict 
prevention and resolution.
Efforts  aimed  at  preventing 
terrorism  must 
be  focused  on  its  causes.  That  is  the  particular 
responsibility of the countries from which the terrorist 
threats emerge, but the international community should 
also offer needed help. We therefore highly appreciate 
the establishment, upon the initiative of the Secretary-
General,  of  the  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism,  which 
will enable strong leadership and a connection between 
the  United  Nations  and  its  Members  as  they  strive  to 
prevent conflicts and terrorism.
Montenegro  unequivocally  supports  the  efforts 
aimed at the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. The 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
provides  a  foundation  for  the  improvement  of  global 
stability. Montenegro has defined its national framework 
in this area by adopting a strategy of non-proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction for the period 2016 to 
2020, including an action plan for its implementation.
Montenegro strongly condemns the nuclear-weapon 
tests  conducted  by  North  Korea  as  acts  that  violate 
international obligations pursuant to Security Council 
resolutions. Those tests pose a serious threat to global 
peace and security. We support diplomatic efforts aimed 
at calming the current situation and call on North Korea 
to fully respect its international obligations.
Highly  important  multilateral  agreements  that 
have  been  adopted  confirm  that  multilateralism  is 
crucial  and  essential  for  achieving  peace,  inclusive 
sustainable  growth  and  respect  for  human  rights. 
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  the 
Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  and 
the  Paris  Climate  Agreement  constitute  a  universal 
platform for transformation and progress. For their full 
implementation to be achieved, therefore, it is necessary 
to secure the utmost commitment of all Member States, 
as well as considerable financial resources.
Montenegro  strongly  supported  the  negotiations 
on a new international accord on climate change. The 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  is  a  foundation 
for further efforts in long-term climate preservation. I 
had the pleasure and honour to participate, on behalf of 
Montenegro, in the historic Conference in Paris, when 
the  Agreement  was  adopted,  and  to  take  part  in  its 
signing ceremony at Headquarters. As part of the efforts 
to  mitigate  climate  change,  Montenegro  financially 
contributes to the Trust Fund of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change.
Respect for human rights is a precondition for peace, 
stability  and  development.  The  full  implementation 
of  the  international  standards  and  norms  relating  to 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  is  an 
obligation for every country. We are committed to the 
multilateral system for the protection and promotion of 
human rights, in particular among the most vulnerable 
groups,  and  therefore  attach  special  importance  to 
poverty eradication and the fight against discrimination.
We also attach special importance to strengthening 
the  position  and  role  of  women  in  society,  the 
prevention of violence against women, child protection 
and  development  and  the  fight  against  discrimination 
20/21 
17-29400
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.9
of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex 
population  and 
individuals  with  disabilities.  We 
especially appreciate the joint initiative of the European 
Union  and  the  United  Nations  to  eliminate  all  forms 
of violence against women and girls and the launch of 
the global alliance to end trade in tools of torture and 
capital punishment.
I  am  certain  that  its  improvement  of  human 
rights  protection  and  respect  for  individuals  renders 
Montenegro a strong candidate for membership of the 
Human Rights Council for the period 2022-2024. That 
was  also  confirmed  by  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights, who said that Montenegro was one of 33 
United Nations Members to send regular reports on the 
implementation of international agreements concerning 
human rights.
We  attach  special  importance  to  developing  key 
documents on refugees and migrants and point out the 
necessity  of  a  comprehensive  approach,  while  taking 
into  account  the  development,  humanitarian,  security 
and human rights dimensions. Based on our experience 
and  in  cooperation  with  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, we are ready 
to make a concrete contribution to drafting two global 
compacts.
Its  enormous  obligation  to  offer  humanitarian 
assistance to civilians in conflicts and natural disasters 
obliges  the  United  Nations  to  reinforce  mechanisms 
for humanitarian aid. Montenegro actively participated 
in  the  first  World  Humanitarian  Summit,  held  last 
year.  The  Summit  confirmed  the  need  for  efficient 
coordination of international humanitarian assistance. 
Montenegro  has  therefore  invested  significant  efforts 
this  year  into  ensuring  that  there  are  appropriate 
legislative  and  strategic  frameworks  for  planning 
in  place  for  managing  and  financing  international 
development cooperation and humanitarian assistance.
Finally,  on  behalf  of  Montenegro  and  on  my  own 
behalf,  allow  me  to  extend  our  congratulations  to 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election  as  the  President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. 
His persistent commitment to dialogue and cooperation 
unequivocally confirms that he will be very successful 
in  his  high  office.  I  would  also  like  to  express  great 
appreciation 
the  former  President,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, for his achievements in the work related to 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
to 
I take this opportunity to reiterate my most sincere 
congratulations to new Secretary-General, Mr. António 
Guterres.  I  am  convinced  that  his  rich  professional 
experience, leadership and commitment will contribute 
to the work and results of the United Nations at this time 
when the world faces complex challenges. I also express 
my sincere gratitude to former Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  overall  contribution  to  achieving  the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations, as well 
as for his support for Montenegro. I wish the General 
Assembly a successful seventy-second session.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Montenegro for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Filip Vujanović, President of Montenegro, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
17-29400
21/21
