United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
34th plenary meeting
Thursday, 26 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.34
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 
Second report of the General Committee 
(A/72/250/Add.1)
The President: I should like to draw the attention 
of representatives to the second report of the General 
Committee  contained  in  document  A/72/250/Add.1. 
In  paragraph  1  of  the  report,  the  General  Committee 
decided to postpone its consideration of the question of 
the inclusion of the item entitled “Complete withdrawal 
of  foreign  military  forces  from  the  territory  of  the 
Republic of Moldova” to one of its subsequent meetings.
In  paragraph  2  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee recommends to the General Assembly that 
an  additional  sub-item  entitled  “Confirmation  of  the 
appointment of members of the Investments Committee” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
agenda  item  115  under  heading  I,  “Organizational, 
administrative and other matters”. May I take it that the 
General  Assembly  decides  to  include  this  sub-item  in 
the agenda of the current session under agenda item 115 
under heading I of the agenda?
It was so decided. 
The  President:  In  paragraph  2  (b),  the  General 
Committee  further  recommends  that  the  sub-item  be 
allocated to the Fifth Committee. May I take it that the 
General Assembly decides to allocate this sub-item to 
the Fifth Committee?
It was so decided. 
The President: I should like to inform members that 
the sub-item entitled “Confirmation of the appointment 
of  members  of  the  Investments  Committee”  becomes 
sub-item  (j)  of  agenda  item  115  on  the  agenda  of  the 
current session. The Fifth Committee will be informed 
of the decision just taken by the General Assembly.
In  paragraph  3  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee recommends to the General Assembly that 
an additional item entitled “Observer status for the Fund 
for the Development of the Indigenous Peoples of Latin 
America and the Caribbean in the General Assembly” 
be included in the agenda of the current session under 
heading  I.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly 
decides to include this item in the agenda of the current 
session under heading I?
It was so decided. 
The  President:  In  paragraph  3  (b),  the  General 
Committee  further  recommends  that  the  item  be 
allocated to the Sixth Committee. May I take it that the 
General Assembly decides to allocate this item to the 
Sixth Committee?
It was so decided. 
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members 
that the item entitled “Observer status for the Fund for 
the  Development  of  the  Indigenous  Peoples  of  Latin 
America and the Caribbean in the General Assembly” 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-34488 (E)
*1734488*
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
becomes item 175 on the agenda of the current session. 
The Sixth Committee will be informed of the decision 
just taken by the General Assembly.
In  paragraph  4  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee recommends to the General Assembly that 
an  additional  item  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations: 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation”  be  included  in 
the agenda of the current session under heading I. May 
I take it that the General Assembly decides to include 
this  item  in  the  agenda  of  the  current  session  under 
heading I?
It was so decided. 
The  President:  In  paragraph  4  (b),  the  General 
Committee  further  recommends  that  the  item  be 
considered  directly  in  plenary  meeting.  May  I  take  it 
that the General Assembly decides to consider this item 
directly in plenary meeting?
the 
item  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
It was so decided. 
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members 
the 
that 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations: 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation”  becomes  item 
176 on the agenda of the current session.
In  paragraph  5  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General 
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly 
that an additional item entitled “Impact of exponential 
technological  change  on  sustainable  development 
and  peace”  be  included  in  the  agenda  of  the  current 
session under heading I.  May I take it that the General 
Assembly decides to include this item in the agenda of 
the current session under heading I?
It was so decided. 
In paragraph 5 (b), the General Committee further 
recommends  that  the  item  be  considered  directly 
in  plenary  meeting.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly  decides  to  consider  this  item  directly  in 
plenary meeting?
It was so decided. 
The President: I should like to inform members that 
the item entitled “Impact of exponential technological 
change on sustainable development and peace” becomes 
item 177 on the agenda of the current session.
Agenda item 74
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/72/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/72/345)
The  President:  The  annual  consideration  of  the 
report of the International Court of Justice (A/72/4) by 
the General Assembly has been a tradition since 1968. 
It is integral to the efforts aimed at strengthening the 
relationship  between  two  main  organs  of  the  United 
Nations:  the  General  Assembly  and  the  International 
Court of Justice. Today it is my pleasure and privilege 
to  welcome  the  Honourable  Judge  Ronny  Abraham, 
President of the Court, to this meeting. Before we start 
the consideration of the report, allow me to make three 
brief  points  on  the  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.
First,  I  want  to  underline  the  contribution  of 
the  Court  to  the  cause  of  peace.  The  United  Nations 
was  created  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge  of  war.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
declared, among other things, that one of the objectives 
of  the  Organization  is  to  establish  conditions  under 
which justice and respect for international law can be 
maintained. The International Court of Justice, as the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, plays a 
key role in that regard. 
While  the  Court’s  judgments  are  binding  only  on 
the parties to the case in question, the jurisprudence of 
the Court has far-reaching impact. It sends a powerful 
message across the world. Through the exercise of its 
functions  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  the 
Court also plays an important role in the prevention of 
conflicts. And in doing so, it contributes to the United 
Nations wider efforts for peace.
Secondly,  I  want  to  acknowledge  the  role  of  the 
Court’s work in strengthening the rule of law, not only 
in  the  sphere  of  inter-State  relations,  but  also  within 
the United Nations system. The vision outlined in the 
Charter  cannot  be  achieved  without  the  rule  of  law. 
That is what underpins all of the work we do, whether 
related to peace and security, sustainable development 
or  human  rights.  The  Court’s  judgments,  as  well  as 
its  advisory  opinions,  are  key  to  strengthening  the 
commitment of the international community to the rule 
of law.
2/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
A  lot  has  changed  since  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  was  established.  However,  the  third  point 
I  want  to  make  is  that  the  Court  remains  as  relevant 
as ever. The annual report before us today once again 
details  the  high  level  of  activity  and  interest  on  the 
part  of  States  in  relation  to  the  Court’s  work.  The 
2016-2017 period again saw a number of States, from 
various parts of the world, submit their disputes to the 
Court’s  adjudication.  It  is  also  encouraging  to  note 
that the positive trend in the level of acceptance of the 
Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction  continues.  Moreover, 
our  annual  consideration  of  the  Court’s  report  shows 
the sustained interest of States Members of the United 
Nations in the work that takes place in the Peace Palace 
at The Hague.
It is now my honour to invite Judge Ronny Abraham, 
President of the International Court of Justice, to take 
the floor.
Judge  Abraham,  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice (spoke in French): It is an honour for me 
to be addressing the General Assembly once again as it 
considers the annual report of the International Court 
of Justice (A/72/4) on its activities over the past year. I 
am happy to be carrying on what is already a very old 
tradition. I am pleased to have the opportunity to do so 
before  an  Assembly  meeting  under  the  presidency  of 
His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, to whom I offer 
my  warm  congratulations  on  his  election;  he  has  my 
very best wishes for this most distinguished of missions.
Between  1  August  2016  —  the  starting  date  of 
the period covered by the Court’s report — and today, 
up  to  19  contentious  cases  and  one  advisory  opinion 
have been pending before the Court. During that same 
period,  the  Court  has  held  hearings  in  six  cases.  The 
Court first heard the oral arguments of the parties on 
the preliminary objections submitted by Kenya in the 
case  concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Indian 
Ocean  (Somalia  v.  Kenya).  It  then  held  hearings  on 
three  requests  for  provisional  measures  submitted,  in 
turn, in the case concerning Immunities and Criminal 
Proceedings (Equatorial Guinea v. France), in the case 
concerning Application of the International Convention 
for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and 
of the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Racial Discrimination (Ukraine v. Russian 
Federation) and in the Jadhav Case (India v. Pakistan). 
Finally, in early July, the Court heard the oral arguments 
of  the  parties  on  the  merits  in  the  cases  concerning 
Maritime  Delimitation  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  the 
Pacific  Ocean  (Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua)  and  Land 
Boundary in the Northern Part of Isla Portillos (Costa 
Rica v. Nicaragua), which were joined in February.
first 
three 
Since 1 August 2016, the Court has also delivered 
four judgments and three orders indicating provisional 
measures.  The 
judgments  concerned 
questions of jurisdiction and admissibility raised in the 
cases  regarding  Obligations  concerning  Negotiations 
relating  to  Cessation  of  the  Nuclear  Arms  Race  and 
to  Nuclear  Disarmament  (Marshall  Islands  v.  India), 
(Marshall  Islands  v.  Pakistan)  and  (Marshall  Islands 
v.  United  Kingdom)  and  the  fourth  addressed  the 
preliminary  objections  raised  by  Kenya  in  the  case 
concerning Maritime Delimitation in the Indian Ocean 
(Somalia  v.  Kenya).  The  orders  indicating  provisional 
measures  were  made,  in  turn,  in  the  case  concerning 
Immunities  and  Criminal  Proceedings  instituted  by 
Equatorial Guinea against France, in the case instituted 
by Ukraine against the Russian Federation and in the 
case instituted by India against Pakistan.
(spoke in English) 
As is customary, I shall now give a brief overview 
of the substance of those decisions.
Having  already  presented  the  three  judgments 
rendered by the Court on 5 October 2016 in the cases 
concerning  Obligations  concerning Negotiations 
relating  to  Cessation  of  the  Nuclear  Arms  Race  and 
to  Nuclear  Disarmament  (Marshall  Islands  v.  India), 
(Marshall Islands v. Pakistan) and (Marshall Islands v. 
United Kingdom) in the statement that I had the honour 
to  give  last  year  to  the  Assembly,  I  shall  not  go  back 
over those decisions. I shall therefore begin by recalling 
certain elements of the judgment rendered by the Court 
on 2 February 2017 on the preliminary objections raised 
by Kenya in the case concerning Maritime Delimitation 
in the Indian Ocean (Somalia v. Kenya).
In  this  regard,  let  me  first  recall  some  factual 
elements.  Somalia  and  Kenya,  adjacent  States  on  the 
coast of East Africa, are parties to the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). Under 
article 76, paragraph 8, of UNCLOS, a State party to 
the Convention intending to establish the outer limits 
of its continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles shall 
submit information on such limits to the Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  (CLCS).  The 
role  of  the  CLCS  is  to  make  recommendations  to 
coastal  States  on  matters  related  to  the  establishment 
of  the  outer  limits  of  their  continental  shelf  beyond 
17-34488
3/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
200  nautical  miles.  With  regard  to  disputed  maritime 
areas,  the  CLCS  requires  the  prior  consent  of  all  the 
States  concerned  before  it  will  consider  submissions 
regarding such areas.
As the Court recalls in its judgment, Somalia and 
Kenya  signed  a  Memorandum  of  Understanding  on 
7 April 2009, agreeing to grant each other a no-objection 
in respect of submissions made to the CLCS on the outer 
limits of the continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles. 
Paragraph 6 of the Memorandum further provides that: 
“[t]he  delimitation  of  maritime  boundaries  in  the 
areas  under  dispute  ...  shall  be  agreed  between 
the  two  coastal  States  ...  after  the  Commission 
has  concluded  its  examination  of  the  separate 
submissions made by each of the two coastal States 
and made its recommendations...”. 
In 
the  following  years,  both  parties  raised  and 
withdrew objections to the consideration of each other’s 
submissions  by  the  CLCS.  Those  submissions  are 
currently under consideration by the CLCS.
the  maritime  areas  appertaining 
On 28 August 2014, Somalia instituted proceedings 
against  Kenya  before  the  Court,  requesting  the  latter 
to  determine,  on  the  basis  of  international  law,  the 
complete  course  of  the  single  maritime  boundary 
dividing  all 
to 
Somalia and to Kenya in the Indian Ocean, including 
the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles.  As  a 
basis for the Court’s jurisdiction, Somalia invoked the 
declarations  recognizing  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  as 
compulsory made by the two States. Kenya, however, 
raised two preliminary objections: one concerning the 
jurisdiction of the Court and the other the admissibility 
of the application.
In  its  judgment  dated  2  February  2017,  the  Court 
first  examined  Kenya’s  objection  concerning 
the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  In  this  objection,  Kenya 
argued  that  the  Court  lacked  jurisdiction  to  entertain 
the  case  as  a  result  of  one  of  the  reservations  to  its 
declaration  accepting  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of 
the Court, which excludes disputes in regard to which 
the parties have agreed “to have recourse to some other 
method or methods of settlement”. Kenya asserted that 
the  Memorandum  constituted  an  agreement  to  have 
recourse  to  another  method  of  settlement.  It  added 
that  the  relevant  provisions  of  UNCLOS  on  dispute 
settlement  also  amounted  to  an  agreement  on  the 
method of settlement.
The Court first considered whether the Memorandum 
fell  within  the  scope  of  Kenya’s  reservation.  Having 
examined  the  legal  status  of  that  instrument  under 
international law, it concluded that it was a valid treaty 
which entered into force upon signature and which was 
binding  on  the  parties  under  international  law.  The 
Court  then  proceeded  to  interpret  the  Memorandum 
and  concluded  that  it  did  not  constitute  an  agreement 
by the parties to have recourse to some other method or 
methods of settlement within the meaning of Kenya’s 
reservation  to  its  declaration  recognizing  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction. Therefore, it did not fall within the scope 
of that reservation.
The  Court  next  considered  whether  Part  XV  of 
UNCLOS, entitled “Settlement of disputes”, amounted 
to  an  agreement  between  the  parties  on  a  method  of 
settlement for their maritime boundary dispute within 
the meaning of Kenya’s reservation. It focused on article 
282 of the Convention in particular, which provides that 
“[i]f  the  States  Parties  which  are  parties  to  a 
dispute concerning the interpretation or application 
of  [UNCLOS]  have  agreed,  through  a  general, 
regional  or  bilateral  agreement  or  otherwise,  that 
such dispute shall, at the request of any party to the 
dispute, be submitted to a procedure that entails a 
binding decision, that procedure shall apply in lieu 
of the procedures provided for in [Part XV], unless 
the parties to the dispute otherwise agree”.
The Court was of the view that the phrase “or otherwise” 
in article 282 encompassed agreement to the jurisdiction 
of the Court resulting from optional clause declarations, 
even  when  such  declarations  contain  a  reservation  to 
the same effect as that of Kenya. It concluded from this 
that, under article 282, the optional clause declarations 
of 
the  Parties  constituted  an  agreement  reached 
“otherwise” to settle in the Court disputes concerning 
the interpretation or application of UNCLOS and that 
the procedure before the Court should therefore apply 
“in lieu” of procedures provided for in section 2 of Part 
XV. 
Accordingly, the dispute did not, by virtue of Part 
XV  of  UNCLOS,  fall  outside  the  scope  of  Kenya’s 
optional  clause  declaration.  The  Court  concluded 
that  Kenya’s  preliminary  objection  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  had  to  be  rejected.  It  then  turned  to  the 
second  preliminary  objection  raised  by  Kenya,  which 
concerned the admissibility of the application.
4/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
The  Court  recalled  that,  according  to  Kenya, 
the  application  was  inadmissible  for  two  reasons. 
First, Kenya argued that the parties had agreed in the 
Memorandum to delimit their boundary by negotiation 
and  only  after  the  completion  of  the  CLCS  review  of 
their  submissions.  Having  previously  found  that  the 
Memorandum  did  not  bind  the  parties  to  wait  for  the 
outcome  of  the  CLCS  process  and  did  not  impose 
an  obligation  on  the  parties  to  settle  their  maritime 
boundary  dispute  through  a  particular  method  of 
settlement,  the  Court  also  rejected  this  aspect  of 
Kenya’s second preliminary objection. 
contended 
Secondly,  Kenya 
that  Somalia’s 
withdrawal  of  its  consent  to  the  consideration  by  the 
CLCS  of  Kenya’s  submission  was  in  breach  of  the 
memorandum. The Court observed that the violation by 
Somalia of a treaty at issue in the case did not per se 
affect  the  admissibility  of  its  application.  In  the  light 
of the foregoing, the Court found that the preliminary 
objection to the admissibility of Somalia’s application 
had to be rejected.
The Court therefore found that it had jurisdiction to 
entertain the application filed by the Federal Republic 
of Somalia on 28 August 2014 and that the application 
was  admissible.  By  an  order  dated  2  February  2017, 
the Court fixed 18 December 2017 as the deadline for 
Kenya  to  file  its  counter-memorial  in  the  case.  The 
proceedings are therefore currently pending.
As already mentioned, during the reporting period, 
the  Court  also  handed  down  three  orders  for  the 
indication of provisional measures, which I will briefly 
present in chronological order. The first one was issued 
on 7 December 2016 in the case concerning Immunities 
and  Criminal  Proceedings  (Equatorial  Guinea  v. 
France).  As  a  French  national,  I  did  not  exercise  the 
functions of the presidency in this case, in accordance 
with article 32, paragraph 1, of the rules of the Court. 
This  role  was  assumed  by  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Court, in conformity with article 13 of the rules. 
I would like to recall that, on 13 June 2016, Equatorial 
Guinea  instituted  proceedings  against  France  with 
regard  to  a  dispute  concerning  the  alleged  immunity 
from criminal jurisdiction of the Vice-President of the 
Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  Mr.  Teodoro  Nguema 
Obiang  Mangue,  and  the  legal  status  of  a  building 
located at 42 avenue Foch in Paris. Equatorial Guinea 
contended,  inter  alia,  that,  by  initiating  criminal 
in  charge 
proceedings  against 
its  Vice-President 
of  Defence  and  State  Security  and  by  ordering  the 
attachment or saisie pénale immobilière of a building 
said  to  house  its  Embassy,  France  had  disregarded 
immunities  accorded  under  international  law  and 
violated Equatorial Guinea’s sovereignty.
for 
request 
A  few  weeks 
later,  on  29  September  2016, 
Equatorial  Guinea  submitted  a 
the 
indication  of  provisional  measures,  asking  the  Court, 
inter alia, to order that France suspend all the criminal 
proceedings  brought  against 
the  Vice-President 
of  Equatorial  Guinea,  that  France  ensure  that  the 
building located at 42 avenue Foch in Paris is treated 
as premises of Equatorial Guinea’s diplomatic mission 
in  France,  and,  in  particular,  assure  its  inviolability, 
and that France refrain from taking any other measure 
that  might  aggravate  or  extend  the  dispute  submitted 
to  the  Court.  Equatorial  Guinea  sought  to  found  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  on  two  instruments,  namely  the 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and the Optional Protocol to the Vienna Convention on 
Diplomatic Relations.
In 
its  order, 
the  Court,  following 
its  usual 
methodology, first examined whether the jurisdictional 
clauses  contained  in  these  instruments  conferred 
upon it prima facie jurisdiction to rule on the merits, 
enabling  it  —  if  the  other  necessary  conditions  were 
fulfilled  —  to  indicate  provisional  measures.  Having 
examined the relevant elements, the Court considered 
that  it  did  not  have  prima  facie  jurisdiction  under 
article  35,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime to entertain Equatorial 
Guinea’s  request  relating  to  the  alleged  immunity  of 
Mr. Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue. 
It  did,  however,  find  that  it  had  prima  facie
jurisdiction under article I of the Optional Protocol to 
the Vienna Convention to entertain the second aspect 
of  the  dispute  concerning  the  building  located  at  42 
avenue  Foch  in  Paris.  The  Court  was  therefore  of  the 
view  that  it  could,  on  this  basis,  examine  Equatorial 
Guinea’s  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures insofar as it concerned that building.
Having  found  that  it  did  not  have  prima  facie
jurisdiction  to  entertain  the  alleged  violations  of  the 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime, 
the  Court  addressed  only  Equatorial  Guinea’s  alleged 
right to the inviolability of the premises of its diplomatic 
mission,  in  respect  of  which  article  22  of  the  Vienna 
Convention  was  invoked.  The  Court  concluded  that 
17-34488
5/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
the conditions required by its Statute for it to indicate 
provisional measures in respect of the building located 
at 42 avenue Foch in Paris had been met. It therefore 
indicated that France should, pending a final decision 
in the case, take all measures at its disposal to ensure 
that the premises presented as housing the diplomatic 
mission  of  Equatorial  Guinea  enjoy 
treatment 
equivalent to that required by article 22 of the Vienna 
Convention on Diplomatic Relations in order to ensure 
their inviolability.
the circumstances required the indication of provisional 
measures for the protection of rights. It stated that it was 
fully aware of the context in which the case had been 
brought before it, in particular the fighting taking place 
in large parts of eastern Ukraine and the destruction on 
17 July 2014 of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17 while 
it was flying over Ukrainian territory en route between 
Amsterdam and Kuala Lumpur, which claimed a large 
number of lives. Nevertheless, the Court recalled that 
the case before it was limited in scope.
On 19 April 2017, the Court handed down a second 
order  for  the  indication  of  provisional  measures  in 
the  case  concerning  Application  of  the  International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of 
Terrorism and of the International Convention on the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination
(Ukraine  v.  Russian  Federation).  This  case  was 
instituted  on  16  January  2017  by  Ukraine  against  the 
Russian  Federation  with  regard  to  alleged  violation 
of  the  International  Convention  for  the  Suppression 
of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  and  the  International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination (CERD). 
With reference to the International Convention for 
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, Ukraine 
contended that the Russian Federation, in violation of 
its  obligations  under  that  Convention,  had  failed  to 
take appropriate measures to prevent the financing of 
terrorism  in  Ukraine  by  public  and  private  actors  on 
the territory of the Russian Federation and that it had 
repeatedly refused to investigate, prosecute or extradite 
offenders within its territory brought to its attention by 
Ukraine. With reference to CERD, Ukraine contended 
that the Russian Federation, in violation of its obligations 
under  that  Convention,  had  imposed  on  the  Crimean 
peninsula “a regime of ethnic Russian dominance” and 
had  engaged  in  systematic  discrimination  against  the 
Crimean Tatars and ethnic Ukrainians in Crimea.
The  Court’s  decision  followed  a  request  for  the 
indication  of  provisional  measures  submitted  by 
Ukraine,  also  on  16  January  2017.  In  its  request, 
Ukraine  stated  that  it  was  seeking  to  safeguard  the 
rights  it  claimed  under  the  two  cited  Conventions, 
pending the Court’s decision on the merits. In its order, 
the  Court  first  recalled  that  it  was  not  called  upon, 
for the purposes of its decision on the request for the 
indication  of  provisional  measures,  to  establish  the 
existence of breaches of the parties’ obligations under 
either of these Conventions, but to determine whether 
In  respect  of  the  events  in  the  eastern  part  of  its 
territory, Ukraine brought proceedings only under the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the 
Financing  of  Terrorism.  With  regard  to  the  events  in 
Crimea, Ukraine’s claim was based solely upon CERD, 
and the Court was not called upon, as Ukraine expressly 
recognized, to rule on any issue other than allegations 
of  racial  discrimination  made  by  it.  Moreover,  the 
Court reminded the parties that the Security Council, 
in  its  resolution  2202  (2015),  had  endorsed  the 
“Package  of  measures  for  the  Implementation  of  the 
Minsk Agreements”, adopted and signed in Minsk on 
12 February 2015. The Court said that it expected the 
parties, through individual and joint efforts, to work for 
the full implementation of this “Package of measures” 
in order to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict 
in the eastern regions of Ukraine.
The  Court  thereafter  turned  to  the  question  of 
whether  the  jurisdictional  clauses  contained  in  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the 
Financing  of  Terrorism  and  CERD  conferred  upon 
it  prima  facie  jurisdiction  to  rule  on  the  merits, 
enabling  it  —  if  the  other  necessary  conditions  were 
fulfilled  — 
indicate  provisional  measures.  It 
considered that the evidence before it was sufficient to 
establish, prima facie, that the procedural preconditions 
for its being seized, set out in article 24, paragraph 1, 
of the International Convention for the Suppression of 
the Financing of Terrorism and in article 22 of CERD, 
had been met.
to 
The  Court  then  turned  to  the  rights  for  which 
protection  was  sought  and  was  of  the  view  that  the 
conditions  required  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures  in  respect  of  the  rights  alleged  by  Ukraine 
on  the  basis  of  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  had  not 
been  met.  With  regard  to  CERD,  it  considered  that 
the conditions required by its Statute for it to indicate 
provisional measures were met. It therefore found that, 
6/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
in order to protect the rights claimed by Ukraine with 
regard to the situation in Crimea, the Russian Federation 
should, in accordance with its obligations under CERD, 
first, refrain from maintaining or imposing limitations 
on  the  ability  of  the  Crimean  Tatar  community  to 
conserve 
including 
the  Mejlis,  and,  secondly,  ensure  the  availability  of 
education in the Ukrainian language. The Court added 
that  both  parties  should  refrain  from  any  action  that 
might aggravate or extend the dispute before it or make 
it more difficult to resolve.
its  representative 
institutions, 
A  few  weeks  later,  on  18  May  2017,  the  Court 
handed  down  a  third  order  for  the  indication  of 
provisional  measures,  in  the  Jadhav  Case  (India  v. 
Pakistan).  In  this  case,  instituted  on  8  May  2017, 
India  alleges  that  Pakistan  violated  article  36  of  the 
Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, of 24 April 
1963,  with  respect  to  an  Indian  national,  Mr.  Jadhav, 
sentenced to death in Pakistan. The applicant contends 
that it had not been informed of Mr. Jadhav’s detention 
until weeks after his arrest and that Pakistan failed to 
inform the accused of his rights. It further alleges that, 
in violation of the Vienna Convention, the authorities of 
Pakistan have been denying India its right of consular 
access to Mr. Jadhav, despite its repeated requests. The 
Court’s order was made in response to a request for the 
indication of provisional measures, also filed on 8 May 
2017.
In  its  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures, India maintained that the alleged violation of 
the Vienna Convention by Pakistan 
“ha[d]  prevented  India  from  exercising  its  rights 
under the Convention and ha[d] deprived the Indian 
national  from  the  protection  accorded  under  the 
Convention”. 
It added that Mr. Jadhav 
“[would]  be  subjected  to  execution  unless  the 
Court  indicate[d]  provisional  measures  directing 
the  Government  of  Pakistan  to  take  all  measures 
necessary to ensure that he [was] not executed until 
th[e] Court’s decision on the merits” 
of the case.
In  its  order,  having  found  that  it  had  prima  facie
jurisdiction  under  article  I  of  the  Optional  Protocol 
to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Consular  Relations,  and 
having  concluded  that  the  conditions  required  by  its 
Statute  for  it  to  indicate  provisional  measures  had 
been met, the Court decided that Pakistan should take 
all measures at its disposal to ensure that Mr. Jadhav 
was  not  executed  pending  the  final  decision  in  these 
proceedings  and  should  inform  the  Court  of  all  the 
measures  taken  in  implementation  of  said  order.  The 
Court  also  decided  that,  until  it  had  given  its  final 
decision, it should remain seized of the matters which 
form the subject matter of said order.
(spoke in French)
I will turn to the new cases brought before the Court 
during the reporting period. In addition to the two cases 
just  referred  to  —  between  Ukraine  and  the  Russian 
Federation and between India and Pakistan — in which 
the Court issued orders on the indication of provisional 
measures,  a  further  four  sets  of  proceedings  were 
instituted,  three  of  which  were  contentious  and  one 
advisory.
First,  on  16  January  2017,  the  Republic  of  Costa 
Rica  instituted  proceedings  against  the  Republic  of 
Nicaragua  with  regard  to  a  dispute  concerning  the 
precise  definition  of  the  boundary  in  the  area  of  Los 
Portillos/Harbor Head Lagoon and the establishment of 
a new military camp by Nicaragua on the beach of Isla 
Portillos. I would specify that, given the nature of the 
claims made by Costa Rica in these new proceedings 
and  the  close  link  between  those  claims  and  certain 
aspects of the dispute in the case concerning Maritime 
Delimitation  in  the  Caribbean  Sea  and  the  Pacific 
Ocean (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua), the Court decided to 
join  the  proceedings  in  the  two  cases  on  2  February 
2017. As I mentioned in my opening remarks, hearings 
were held at the start of July 2017, and this new case is 
currently under deliberation.
A  second  case  was  brought  before  the  Court  on 
2 February. On that date, Malaysia filed an application 
for review of the judgment of the Court of 23 May 2008 
in the case concerning Sovereignty over Pedra Branca/
Pulau  Batu  Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South  Ledge 
(Malaysia/Singapore).  In  its  application,  Malaysia 
contends  that  there  is  new  evidence  of  such  a  nature 
as to have a decisive influence within the meaning of 
Article 61 of the Statute of the Court, which authorizes, 
under certain conditions, a State to request the revision 
of  a  judgment.  Malaysia  refers  in  particular  to  three 
documents  found  in  the  United  Kingdom’s  national 
archives between 4 August 2016 and 30 January 2017. 
It states that these documents highlight new evidence, 
namely that, 
17-34488
7/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
“officials at the highest levels in the British colonial 
and  Singaporean  administration  appreciated  that 
Pedra Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh did not form part 
of Singapore’s sovereign territory” 
during  the  relevant  period.  According  to  Malaysia, 
“the Court would have been bound to reach a different 
conclusion  on  the  question  of  sovereignty  over  Pedra 
Branca/Pulau Batu Puteh had it been aware of this new 
evidence”.
A few months later, on 30 June, Malaysia brought 
a  new  case  before  the  Court  by  filing  a  request  for 
interpretation of the judgment of the Court of 23 May 
2008  in  the  case  concerning  Sovereignty  over  Pedra 
Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South 
Ledge (Malaysia/Singapore). Malaysia bases its request 
for  interpretation  on  Article  60  of  the  Statute  of  the 
Court, which provides that 
“[i]n the event of dispute as to the meaning or scope 
of  the  judgment,  the  Court  shall  construe  it  upon 
the request of any party”. 
Malaysia also bases its request on article 98 of the rules 
of the Court. 
The applicant states that, “Malaysia and Singapore 
have attempted to implement the 2008 judgment through 
cooperative processes”. To that end, Malaysia affirms 
that they have established a joint technical commission, 
responsible 
the  delimitation  of 
maritime boundaries between the territorial waters of 
the two countries. According to Malaysia, the work of 
this Committee culminated in a stalemate in November 
2013. Malaysia further asserts that 
in  particular  for 
“one  of  the  reasons  for  this  stalemate  is  that  the 
Parties  were  unable  to  agree  on  the  meaning  of 
the 2008 judgment in respect of South Ledge and 
the  waters  surrounding  Pedra  Branca/Pulau  Batu 
Puteh”.
To  conclude  this  overview,  I  should  mention 
the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  presented  by  the 
Assembly in June 2017 on the legal consequences of the 
separation of the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius 
in  1965.  From  a  procedural  point  of  view,  the  Court 
has, as the Assembly is aware, decided in its order of 
14 July 2017  that the United Nations and its Member 
States were likely to be able to furnish information on 
the  question  submitted  to  the  Court  for  an  advisory 
opinion. It fixed 30 January 2018 as the date of expiry 
of the period within which written submissions on the 
matter could be submitted to the Court, in accordance 
with Article 66, paragraph 2, of its Statute, and it fixed 
16 April 2018 as the date of expiry of the period within 
which States or organizations having presented written 
statements  to  comment  in  writing  on  other  written 
statements,  in  accordance  with  Article  66,  paragraph 
4, of the Statute.
I 
to 
the 
requests 
turn  now 
for  budgetary 
appropriations  for  the  2018–2020  biennium  that  the 
Court  transmitted  to  the  Assembly  this  year.  The 
Court is fully aware of the budgetary constraints of the 
Organization  and  its  Member  States,  and  of  the  need 
for the United Nations as a whole and for the Court in 
particular to demonstrate the necessary fiscal discipline 
in this area. The appropriations requested by the Court 
this  year,  which  represents  a  slight  increase,  meet 
the  essential  requirements  for  guaranteeing  the  good 
administration  of  international  justice,  thus  fulfilling 
the mandate conferred to the Court by the Charter of 
the United Nations. 
The budget of the Court represents less than 1 per 
cent of the regular budget of the Organization. In view 
of  its  prominent  role  and  its  ever-growing  activity, 
the Court is undoubtedly a peaceful means of settling 
disputes  and  shows  particularly  exceptional  cost-
effectiveness. The Court is confident that it can count 
on  the  understanding  and  support  of  the  Assembly  in 
this regard.
integrated  management 
In  particular,  the  support  of  the  Assembly  will 
be  needed  to  provide  the  Court  with  the  means  to 
implement  an 
software 
package, known as Umoja, in the next biennium. This 
software  package,  which  was  designed  to  facilitate 
and  simplify  communication  across  all  areas  of  work 
within the United Nations Secretariat, has been in use 
there  since  2016.  Revised  estimates  of  the  budgetary 
resources 
implementation  have 
been  communicated  to  the  Secretariat  by  the  Court. 
The  adoption  of  this  software  package  —  and  the 
implications of such a project for the administration of 
the Court, given the small size and specific attributes 
of its Registry — has required a number of preliminary 
studies. As these have been successfully completed, the 
Court has been able to take the necessary decisions and 
is now ready to deploy Umoja under the best possible 
conditions.
required 
for 
its 
This  concludes  the  third  statement  that  I  have 
had the honour to address to the General Assembly as 
8/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  This 
seems  to  be  a  good  time  to  mention  the  confidence 
the  international  community  continues  to  have  in  the 
Court, which is seen in the submissions to it of a wide 
variety of disputes, each of them raising important legal 
questions that touch upon many fields of international 
law.  Beyond  the  obvious  role  it  has  played  —  and 
continues  to  play  —  in  consolidating  and  developing 
the  law  governing  issues  that  might  be  qualified  as 
standard, such as territorial and maritime boundaries, 
the Court is increasingly led to address issues that are 
central  to  the  current  concerns  of  the  international 
community, such as, for example, those relating to the 
preservation of the environment. 
The substantive issues that it is called upon to resolve 
are  regularly  accompanied  by  incidental  proceedings 
that lead the Court to constantly dealing with several 
cases  at  the  same  time.  The  increase  in  the  number 
of  requests  for  the  indication  of  provisional  measures 
reveals that States do not hesitate to turn to the Court 
in a crisis situation, that is, when a risk of irreparable 
harm is likely to be caused to their rights. In such cases, 
the Court has mobilized all of its resources to provide 
a  rapid  response  suitable  for  these  urgent  situations. 
Whatever the mission that States entrust to it, the Court 
always bears in mind its primary concern, which is to 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security through the application of the law.
(spoke in English)
I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  address  the 
General Assembly today, and I wish it every success at 
its seventy-second session.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Group of African States. 
The  African  Group  will  of  course  associate  itself 
with  the  statement  to  be  delivered  shortly  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
First of all, the African Group would like to thank 
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  for  his  presentation  and  also 
for  his  report  (A/72/4).  The  African  Group  continues 
to consider the International Court of Justice to be the 
pre-eminent  mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  at  the  international  level.  It  should  be 
kept in mind that the Court, as a court of justice and, 
moreover,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  occupies  a  special  position.  Everything  the 
Court does is aimed at promoting the rule of law. The 
World Court hands down judgments and gives advisory 
opinions  in  accordance  with  its  Statute,  which  is  an 
integral part of the Charter of the United Nations, and 
therefore contributes to the promotion and clarification 
of international law.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  reaffirmed 
confidence  that  States  have  shown  in  its  ability  to 
resolve  their  disputes.  In  particular,  we  are  pleased 
to see that States continue to refer to their disputes to 
the International Court of Justice. We commend States 
for no longer limiting their referral of cases to matters 
of  low-impact  political  significance  and  for  referring 
disputes with weighty political issues to the Court. The 
number of cases currently pending on the Court docket 
is  a  reflection  of  the  esteem  in  which  States  hold  the 
International Court of Justice.
Notwithstanding  the  proliferation  of  international 
judicial  dispute-settlement  mechanisms  on  either  a 
specialized  or  regional  basis,  the  Court  continues  to 
attract  a  wide  range  of  cases,  covering  many  areas. 
While  the  Court’s  determination  that  there  is  an 
obligation  to  cooperate  is  based  principally  on  treaty 
obligations, the Court also clearly draws upon general 
principles,  particularly  in  making  the  link  between 
procedural and substantive obligations.
The  principle  of  prevention,  enunciated  in  earlier 
Court  decisions,  notably  the  Corfu  Channel  case  and 
in the advisory opinion on the Legality of the Threat or 
Use of Nuclear Weapons, is drawn upon significantly 
by  the  Court.  As  such,  the  African  Group  reaffirms 
the  importance  of  the  unanimous  Court  advisory 
opinion  issued  on  8  July  1996  on  the  Legality  of  the 
Threat  or  Use  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  In  this  decision, 
the International Court of Justice concluded that there 
exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a 
conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament 
in all its aspects under strict and effective international 
control. The African Group attaches great importance 
to this matter because Africa is a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone.
After another two decades, the Court again had the 
opportunity  to  decide  on  issues  pertaining  to  nuclear 
weapons.  The  African  Group  notes  that  the  Court 
dismissed  the  three  cases  submitted  by  the  Marshall 
17-34488
9/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
Islands  on  the  Obligations  concerning  Negotiations 
relating  to  Cessation  of  the  Nuclear  Arms  Race  and 
to  Nuclear  Disarmament  (Marshall  Islands  v.  India). 
However, it is worth keeping in mind the closeness of 
the votes regarding these cases.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The  African  Group  commends  the  efficiency 
and professionalism with which the Court has treated 
the  request  by  the  General  Assembly,  pursuant  to  its 
resolution  71/292,  for  an  advisory  opinion  on  the 
Legal  consequences  of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos 
Archipelago from Mauritius in 1965. Resolution 71/292 
was  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority,  testifying 
the  great  interest  that  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations attaches to the Court’s opinion on the matter, 
which is an opinion that will assist the United Nations in 
its function in relation to decolonization. We renew our 
full confidence in the Court as the principal judiciary 
organ of the United Nations and in the respected judges 
of the Court.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  saying  that  the 
importance  of  advisory  opinions  on  legal  questions 
referred to the International Court of Justice cannot be 
overstated in the pursuit of the peaceful settlement of 
disputes in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations. It is therefore very positive to note that, during 
the  period  under  review,  one  request  for  an  advisory 
opinion was made.
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): It is an 
honour to take the floor on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement  (NAM) on the occasion of the consideration 
of  an  agenda  item  to  which  we  attach  such  great 
importance — the report of the International Court of 
Justice (A/72/4) — of which we take note. 
At  the  outset,  allow  us  to  thank  the  President  of 
the International Court of Justice for his presentation of 
the report to the General Assembly on the activities of 
the Court between 1 August 2016 and 31 July 2017, as 
requested by this body last year.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  and 
underscores  its  principled  positions  concerning  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  non-use  or  threat 
of use of force. The International Court of Justice plays 
a  significant  role  in  promoting  and  encouraging  the 
settlement of international disputes by peaceful means, 
as reflected in the Charter of the United Nations and in 
such a manner that international peace and security and 
justice are not endangered. The Movement endeavours 
to generate further progress to achieve full respect for 
international law and, in this regard, commends the role 
of  the  Court  in  promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes in accordance with the relevant 
provisions  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court  and  the  United 
Nations Charter, particularly Articles 33 and 94. 
In relation to advisory opinions of the Court, having 
noted the fact that the Security Council has not sought 
any  advisory  opinion  from  the  Court  since  1970,  the 
NAM urges the Security Council to make greater use of 
the International Court of Justice, the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  source  of  advisory 
opinions and for the interpretation of relevant norms of 
international law, as well as on controversial issues. The 
NAM further requests that the Council use the Court 
as  a  source  of  interpreting  relevant  international  law 
and urges the Council to consider having its decisions 
reviewed  by  the  Court,  bearing  in  mind  the  need  to 
ensure  their  adherence  to  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and international law.
The Movement also invites the General Assembly, 
other organs of the United Nations and the specialized 
agencies duly authorized to do so to request advisory 
opinions  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on 
legal questions arising in the scope of their activities. 
Moreover,  the  States  members  of  the  Movement 
reaffirm  the  importance  of  the  Court’s  unanimous 
advisory opinion issued on 8 July 1996 on the Legality 
of the threat or use of nuclear weapons, in which the 
Court concluded that there exists an obligation to pursue 
in  good  faith  and  bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations 
leading  to  nuclear  disarmament  in  all  aspects  under 
strict and effective international control.
In 
conclusion, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
continues  to  call  on  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to 
fully  respect  the  Court’s  advisory  opinion  of  9  July 
2004, entitled Legal Consequences of the Construction 
of  a  Wall  in  the  Occupied  Palestinian  Territory,  and 
calls upon all States to respect and ensure respect for 
the  provisions  therein  for  the  realization  of  the  end 
of  the  Israeli  occupation  that  began  in  1967  and  for 
the  independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr.  Kessel  (Canada):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
today on behalf of Australia and New Zealand, as well 
as my own country, Canada.
10/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
On behalf of Canada, Australia and New Zealand 
(CANZ),  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, Judge Ronny Abraham, 
for his report on the work of the Court over the past year 
(A/72/4). As countries that firmly believe that the rule 
of law is the foundation of the international system and 
that the peaceful settlement of disputes is essential to 
international peace and security, CANZ countries have 
always been strong supporters of the International Court 
of Justice and maintain ongoing respect for the work of 
the Court. Of course, the subsequent implementation of 
a ruling by the Court is essential if the final resolution 
of a dispute is to be ensured.
One  of  the  primary  goals  of  the  United  Nations, 
as stated in the Preamble to the Charter of the United 
Nations, is to establish conditions under which justice 
and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and 
other  sources  of  international  law  can  be  maintained. 
The  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  only 
international  court  with  general  international  law 
jurisdiction, is uniquely placed to further this goal.
testament 
to 
the 
importance 
together  with 
As  the  Court’s  report  records,  disputes  have 
been  submitted  to  it  by  a  variety  of  States  from 
many  regions.  This  diversity, 
the 
wide-ranging,  significant  and  complex  subject  matter 
under  deliberation  and  pending  before  the  Court, 
bears 
that  Member 
States  attribute  to  the  role  of  the  Court  in  resolving 
international  disputes.  Indeed,  we  underline  that  the 
willingness  of  States  to  turn  to  the  Court  to  resolve 
differences of views must be welcomed as an important 
means of ensuring the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Our  confidence  in  the  Court  is  reflected  in  our 
acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction. 
CANZ believes that wider acceptance of the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court would enable it to fulfil its role 
more  effectively,  by  reducing  jurisdictional  disputes, 
thus allowing the Court to move more quickly to focus 
its attention on the substance of disputes. In line with 
resolution 68/116, we continue to urge Member States 
that  have  not  done  so  to  deposit  with  the  Secretary-
General  a  declaration  of  acceptance  of  the  Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction.
(spoke in French)
We  look  forward  to  the  contributions  of  the  new 
and  re-elected  judges  that  the  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  will  be  choosing  this  year  for  the 
International Court of Justice. We take this opportunity 
to thank the members of the Court for their dedication 
and commitment to this institution. Canada, Australia 
and  New  Zealand  would  also  like  to  express  their 
appreciation in particular to Judge and Vice-President 
Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf, as well as Judge and President 
Ronny  Abraham,  for  their  contribution  towards  the 
interpretation and development of international law in 
recent years.
We  expect  that  the  Court’s  programme  of  work 
in  the  year  ahead  will  remain  full  as  States  continue 
to  demonstrate  their  confidence  in  the  Court.  We 
are  aware  that  the  Court’s  caseload  continues  to  be 
demanding and are grateful for its contribution to the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
Mr. Vieira (Brazil): It is my honour to deliver this 
statement  on  behalf  of  Angola,  Cabo  Verde,  Guinea-
Bissau, Equatorial Guinea, Mozambique, Portugal, Sao 
Tome and Principe, Timor-Leste and my own country, 
Brazil  —  all  States  members  of  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP).
I  would  like  to  begin  by  expressing  our  gratitude 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge Ronny Abraham, for his thorough report on the 
Court’s work for the judicial year 2016-2017 (A/72/4).
The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  the  only 
international court of a universal character with general 
jurisdiction. The Court holds important responsibilities 
in the international community as it plays a fundamental 
role in the judicial settlement of disputes between States 
and in strengthening of the international rule of law at 
the  level.  Furthermore,  such  a  role  enables  it  to  play 
another  very  particular  role,  which  is  to  help  prevent 
disputes between States erupting into violence.
The  Court’s  crucial  function  in  the  international 
legal system is becoming increasingly recognized and 
accepted. All States Members of the United Nations are 
parties to the Statute of the Court, and 73 of them have 
recognized  its  jurisdiction  as  compulsory.  Moreover, 
approximately  300  bilateral  and  multilateral  treaties 
provide  for  the  Court  to  have  jurisdiction  over  the 
resolution  of  disputes  arising  out  of  their  application 
or  interpretation.  The  heavy  workload  and  the  wide 
range of subjects that the Court has ruled on confirm 
its  success.  It  must  be  noted  that  the  Court’s  cases 
come from all over the world, relate to a great variety 
of  matters  and  have  high  levels  of  factual  and  legal 
complexity.  This  reaffirms  the  universality  of  the 
17-34488
11/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
Court,  the  expansion  of  the  scope  of  its  work  and  its 
growing specialization.
Charter and contributed to ensuring the primacy of law 
in international affairs.
The Court is making an impressive effort to cope 
with  the  very  demanding  level  of  activity.  However, 
it is important for Member States to acknowledge the 
Court’s need for adequate resources.
The Court has often recalled that everything it does 
is  aimed  at  promoting  the  rule  of  law.  That  is  indeed 
so. It is worth reiterating the outstanding contribution 
that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has  made  to 
the  development  of  international  law.  In  that  regard, 
we  should  also  stress  that,  although  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  is  a  main  player  in  the  international 
judicial  area,  there  are  other  international  courts  and 
tribunals  whose  significance  should  be  emphasized. 
The CPLP member States strongly believe that all such 
courts should cooperate with a view to enhancing the 
international  legal  order  through  dialogue  and  cross-
fertilization.
We  acknowledge  that  tension  frequently  exists 
between law and power. It is sometimes hard to balance 
States’  obligation  to  settle  their  disputes  peacefully 
and the need for sovereign consent in order to resort to 
such mechanisms. However, it is our firm belief that the 
Court is an institutional pillar of international society. 
The CPLP member States are confident that the Court 
will continue to overcome the growing challenges that 
it  is  bound  to  face.  Such  challenges  are  a  good  sign. 
They mean that States have confidence that the Court 
will  help  to  settle  their  disputes  and  strengthen  the 
international  rule  of  law  in  bending  towards  justice 
and peace.
I  would  now  like  to  make  some  comments  in  my 
national capacity.
Both Secretary-General Guterres and the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  have  underscored  the  need 
for  the  United  Nations  to  focus  on  prevention,  which 
is  linked  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  The 
Court is at the core of those efforts, for it is more than 
just  another  body  listed  in  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations. It is the main judicial organ of 
the United Nations and the only international court of a 
universal character with general jurisdiction. For more 
than  70  years,  it  has  helped  to  crystallize  and  clarify 
international law in areas as diverse as the law of the 
sea, human rights, treaty interpretation and the use of 
force, to name only a few. Through its judgments and 
advisory  opinions,  it  has  upheld  the  principles  of  the 
The  Court’s  most  recent  report  is  yet  another 
chapter  in  its  auspicious  history,  with  details  of 
four  judgments,  14  orders  and  six  new  proceedings, 
including one request for an advisory opinion from the 
General  Assembly.  The  high  level  of  activity,  diverse 
geographic  spread  of  cases  and  variety  of  subject 
matter  demonstrate  the  Court’s  renewed  vitality  and 
its universal role in promoting justice. It also reminds 
us  of  the  heavy  demands  placed  on  the  Court  and 
of  the  efforts  it  has  been  making  to  keep  up  with  its 
increasing workload.
We  are  proud  to  have  contributed  to  that  process 
throughout  the  Court’s  history  with  highly  qualified 
Brazilian judges. I would like to take this opportunity 
to  pay  tribute  to  their  work  in  the  cause  of  justice,  a 
tradition currently honoured by Judge Antônio Augusto 
Cançado  Trindade.  Brazil  has  decided  to  present  his 
candidacy  for  re-election,  reflecting  both  our  faith 
in  the  future  role  of  the  Court  and  our  faith  in  Judge 
Trindade’s  work  in  strengthening  the  Court  and 
international law.
Brazil also welcomes the Court’s outreach efforts, 
which  bring  it  closer  to  a  variety  of  audiences  and 
thereby  help  to  disseminate  international  law.  We 
note  with  satisfaction  the  redesign  of  the  Court’s 
website  and 
international 
accessibility standards.
its  compatibility  with 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Brazil’s 
unwavering  support  for  the  Court  and  its  pivotal  role 
in  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level. We believe that the Court will continue to play a 
key role in promoting a culture of peace, tolerance and 
justice  and  thereby  advancing  the  higher  goals  of  the 
United Nations.
Ms. Varga (Hungary): On behalf of the Visegrád 
4 Group — the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and 
my  own  country,  Hungary,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
Ronny  Abraham,  for  presenting  the  Court’s  report 
for  the  year  2016-2017  (A/72/4).  I  have  the  honour  to 
present  the  position  of  the  Visegrád  countries  with 
respect to the Court’s report.
Today  the  question  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes is as timely as ever. The principle 
of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between  States 
12/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
is  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and,  among  other  things,  was  reaffirmed  in  1982  in 
the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful  Settlement 
of  International  Disputes.  Strict  observance  of  that 
principle  is  a  prerequisite  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. The Visegrád Group 
is  a  staunch  supporter  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, which has contributed to the maintenance of 
international peace and security for more than 72 years 
by rendering justice for States.
Turning  to  the  subject  of  the  cases  before  the 
Court  in  the  period  from  2016  to  2017,  we  note  with 
appreciation  that  the  Court  has  closed  a  busy  year. 
Besides  having  received  a  request  from  the  General 
Assembly  for  an  advisory  opinion,  in  accordance 
with  Article  65  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  it  has  19 
contentious  cases  pending  on  its  agenda.  The  Court’s 
recent  cases  have  given  it  a  unique  opportunity  to 
elaborate  on  questions  of  international  law  on  a  wide 
range  of  issues,  including  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes,  the  application  of  certain  treaty  obligations, 
the use of force and the protection of the environment. 
The  variety  of  the  Court’s  work  is  a  testimony  to  its 
comprehensive  character  and  the  crucial  role  it  plays 
in  upholding  and  developing  international  law.  The 
pending  cases  concern  disputes  between  States  from 
almost  all  continents,  showing  that  the  efforts  to 
promote the Court’s global role as an effective forum 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  have  been 
successful. A regular debate at the Committee of Legal 
Advisers on Public International Law of the Council of 
Europe is part of that process.
Let me now turn to the issue of the jurisdiction of the 
Court. The Visegrád Group is of the view that making 
full use of the means available for establishing the basis 
of the Court’s jurisdiction is a primary objective, as it 
increases  the  likelihood  that  States  will  submit  their 
legal  disputes  to  it.  We  therefore  encourage  States 
and  international  organizations  to  continue  including 
provisions  in  future  multilateral  treaties  that  could 
serve as a basis for the Court’s jurisdiction in cases of 
disputes concerning the application or interpretation of 
the  treaty  in  question.  In  that  context,  we  would  also 
encourage  States  to  refrain  from  making  reservations 
to  clauses  of  multilateral  treaties  that  provide  for  the 
Court’s compulsory jurisdiction.
The  Visegrád  Group  believes  that  the  Court  can 
succeed only if States are committed to respecting the 
Court’s  decisions  as  well  as  relying  on  its  expertise. 
Taking into account the fact that the Court has a unique 
role  in  the  architecture  of  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  and  in  the  interpretation  and  application 
of  international  law,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  that 
compliance with the Court’s decisions, judgments and 
orders is a fundamental prerequisite for the effectiveness 
of the system of international justice.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): Peru 
welcomes the annual report of the International Court 
of Justice to the General Assembly (A/72/4) on its work 
during the period from 1 August 2016 to 31 July 2017.
I  would 
like 
to  begin  by  emphasizing 
the 
fundamental  role  played  by  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  in  the  system  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  established  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Its  work  is  an  essential  contribution  to  the 
promotion of the rule of law at the international level. 
We would like to recall that in addition to that valuable 
function, in accordance with Article 96 of the Charter, 
the  Court  can  issue  advisory  opinions  at  the  request 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and 
other authorized bodies and specialized organs of the 
United  Nations.  Those  are  the  Court’s  two  areas  of 
responsibility. Through its judgments and opinions, it 
helps to promote and clarify the scope of international 
law as a true path to peace. Accordingly, my delegation 
would  like  to  point  out  that  the  General  Assembly 
has once again urged States that have not yet done so 
to  consider  recognizing  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  in 
accordance with Article 36, paragraph 2, of its Statute, 
as Peru and 72 other States have done.
My delegation would like to acknowledge the work 
done  by  the  Court’s  eminent  judges,  particularly  the 
President  and  the  Vice-President,  as  well  as  the  ad 
hoc  Judges.  We  would  also  like  to  put  on  record  our 
recognition  of  the  valuable  and  diligent  efforts  of  the 
Registry  of  the  Court,  particularly  the  Registrar  and 
the  Deputy  Registrar.  In  that  context,  we  call  on  the 
Assembly  to  continue  to  carefully  consider  the  needs 
of the Court.
The  Court’s  sustained  level  of  activity  is  an 
expression  of  the  prestige  that  this  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  enjoys,  a  prestige  that  is 
also reflected in the diverse geographical distribution 
of the cases it hears, which affirms the universal nature 
of its jurisdiction. Several of those cases, such as that of 
17-34488
13/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
a few years ago involving Peru and Chile, are between 
Latin  American  States.  In  that  regard,  considering 
the  upcoming  elections  of  judges  and  the  provisions 
of Article 9 of the Court’s Statute, Peru would like to 
highlight  the  importance  of  ensuring  the  presence  on 
the Court of Latin Americans, so that the principal legal 
systems of the world are duly represented on its bench.
The level of activity of the International Court of 
Justice  requires  that  it  continually  consider  ways  to 
adapt its working methods to respond to the procedural 
burden and complexities of the cases before it. We would 
once again like to reiterate our appreciation to the host 
State, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, for its ongoing 
commitment and support to the work of the Court. At 
the same time, we want to emphasize the importance of 
cooperation between the Court and the other principal 
organs of the Organization, based in New York. In that 
regard,  my  delegation  encourages  the  good  relations 
between the Court and the Security Council, of which 
Peru will be a non-permanent member starting in 2018.
I  would  like  to  conclude  my  statement  by  once 
again  highlighting  how  profoundly  important  we 
believe the work of the International Court of Justice to 
be, as well as our recognition of its continuing valuable 
contribution  to  maintaining  international  peace  and 
justice  and  effectively  implementing  the  principle  of 
the peaceful settlement of disputes between States.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  My  delegation  would 
like  to  start  by  thanking  President  Ronny  Abraham 
for  his  comprehensive  presentation  of  the  activities 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  over  the  past 
year.  Under  the  able  stewardship  of  Judge  Abraham 
and  Vice-President  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  the 
Court  continues  to  maintain  the  highest  standards  in 
discharging  its  vital  duties  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations.
Singapore  notes  the  Court’s  demanding  caseload 
and the continuing diversity of the regions and subject 
matter represented by the 17 cases pending on its list 
at the end of the period under review. The list includes 
two  cases  involving  Singapore  that  were  referred  to 
the Court by Malaysia and pertain to the Court’s 2008 
judgment in the case concerning sovereignty over Pedra 
Branca, Middle Rocks and South Ledge.
Singapore  believes 
in  a  stable  and  peaceful 
international  order  based  on  the  rule  of  law.  The 
international  rule  of  law  is  an  essential  premise  for 
ensuring  the  validity  of  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  preservation 
of  friendly  relations  among  States.  When  the  Court 
exercises its advisory jurisdiction, it provides guidance 
on  important  issues  of  international  law.  When  it 
exercises  its  contentious  jurisdiction,  it  fulfils  a  key 
function in facilitating the obligation to settle disputes 
peacefully  under  Article  33  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  In  that  regard,  Singapore  reiterates 
its commitment to the peaceful resolution of disputes, 
including those brought before the Court.
Turning to the work of the Court during the period 
under review, Singapore welcomes its continuing drive 
to  innovate  and  ensure  that  its  procedures  respond  to 
the  needs  of  the  parties  coming  before  the  Court.  In 
that regard, Singapore noted with interest the Court’s 
appointment of two experts in the exercise of its power 
under article 50 of its Statute and appreciates the fact 
that  the  experts’  report  has  been  made  available  on 
the  Court’s  website.  In  that  context,  Singapore  also 
welcomes  the  Court’s  special  effort  to  redesign  its 
website  in  order  to  enhance  its  usability  and  thereby 
improve the reach of its jurisprudence.
In closing, Singapore reaffirms its strong support 
for the work of the Court, which plays a vital role in the 
international rule of law. We wish it every success in 
meeting its future challenges and discharging its duties 
in the year ahead.
Mr.  Mikami  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to  thank  Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  dedication  and 
leadership, as well as for his in-depth and comprehensive 
report on the work of the Court (A/72/4). I would also 
like to express my deep appreciation and support for the 
achievements of the Court during the reporting period.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  for  the  important  role  that  it  has  played 
over  the  past  71  years  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes  and  the  promotion  of  the  rule 
of  law.  As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Court  has  delivered  many  important 
judgments  and  advisory  opinions  since  its  creation 
in  1946,  taking  on  a  diverse  range  of  cases  requiring 
thorough legal examination. The Court is dealing with 
an increasing demand for legal solutions and opinions 
on complex legal and factual questions. We believe that 
the  dedication  and  legal  wisdom  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  will  continue  to  attract  the  respect 
14/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
and support of all Member States. During this decade, 
an  average  of  three  or  four  cases  per  year  have  been 
brought before the Court, and 17 are currently pending. 
That  is  in  stark  contrast  to  the  Cold  War  period.  The 
current  figure  demonstrates  a  positive  trend  in  which 
countries are increasingly turning to the Court for the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
The  rule  of  law  and  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes  provide  an  essential  foundation 
for  any  society  and  are  fundamental  principles  of 
Japan’s  foreign  policy.  Japan  became  a  State  party  to 
the  Statute  of  the  Court  in  1954,  two  years  before  it 
joined the United Nations, and has accepted the Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction since 1958. We recently had the 
honour to welcome President Abraham and Mr. Philippe 
Couvreur, the Registrar of the Court, to Japan this year. 
They shared their wisdom at lectures and meetings on 
the rule of law in the international community, which 
helped  deepen  understanding  of  the  International 
Court of Justice and its importance among academics 
and practitioners in Japan. Japan shares the President’s 
view, expressed during his lecture in Tokyo, that
“two of the core requirements of a legal system based 
on the rule of law are consistency and predictability, 
both  of  the  law  itself  whether  substantive  or 
procedural, and of the judicial decisions”.
The  international  community  today  enjoys  the 
benefit  of  numerous  peaceful  ways  to  settle  disputes 
other than the Court, such as the International Tribunal 
for the Law of the Sea, arbitral tribunals, international 
investment tribunals and the dispute-settlement system 
of the World Trade Organization. Japan welcomes the 
current  trend  whereby  States  utilize  such  peaceful 
means  for  settling  disputes  as  appropriate.  At  the 
same  time,  given  the  increasing  diversity  of  ways  to 
achieve  peaceful  settlements,  Japan  would  like  to 
encourage  international  courts  and  tribunals  to  make 
efforts  to  ensure  the  consistency  of  the  jurisprudence 
of respective courts and tribunals and thereby avoiding 
the  possible  fragmentation  of  international  law.  As 
President Abraham also stated in his lecture in Tokyo, 
the consistency of international law has
“been  guaranteed  by  the  persistent  awareness  of 
the Court of the decisions of other judicial bodies, 
and  the  reference  it  has  made  to  such  decisions, 
when appropriate, in its own judgments”.
As I said at the outset, Japan has always accepted 
the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  Japan  joins 
other Member States in welcoming Equatorial Guinea’s 
acceptance  in  August  of  the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction,  making  it  the  seventy-third  country  to 
do  so.  In  order  to  encourage  other  States  to  follow 
suit, it is important for the Court to accumulate good, 
solid  judgments  and  advisory  opinions  that  enjoy  the 
confidence of States. I hope the Court will continue to 
make its best efforts tos achieve that objective.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  unwavering 
support  for  the  Court.  We  believe  firmly  that  it  will 
continue to make a significant contribution to clarifying 
international  law  and  thereby  strengthening  the  rule 
of law.
Mr.  Castro  Cordoba  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We are grateful to President Abraham for his 
report (A/72/4), and it is an honour for me to participate 
once again in the General Assembly’s annual meeting 
to  consider  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  the  only  international  tribunal  of  a  universal 
nature that enjoys general jurisdiction and the principal 
judicial body of the United Nations.
The Court’s workload during the reporting period 
was  again  very  heavy,  with  four  judgments  and  14 
orders handed down. We are also aware that there are 
19 contentious cases and an advisory opinion pending. 
The  Court  has  held  public  hearings  in  five  cases  and 
accepted six new ones. We have taken particular notice 
of  the  fact  that  there  are  cases  from  four  different 
continents, all of them diverse in nature. That testifies 
to the Court’s universal nature and the importance that 
the States Members of the United Nations attach to its 
decisions, as well as to the fundamental peacekeeping 
role that it plays.
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes 
is  a  fundamental  purpose  of  the  United  Nations. 
This  is  why  the  Court’s  role  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security and the promotion of 
the rule of law at the international level is key, and why 
it is therefore the responsibility of the United Nations 
and Member States to support it in fulfilling its tasks. 
Through its support, the Organization must ensure that 
the  Court  can  continue  to  effectively  and  objectively 
address  the  cases  submitted  for  its  consideration 
in  absolute  legal  and  procedural  independence  and 
that  it  has  the  budgetary  resources  necessary  for  the 
fulfilment of its mandate. In that regard, my delegation 
was  pleased  that  the  General  Assembly  authorized 
additional budgetary resources that enabled the Court 
17-34488
15/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
to conduct two field inspections in a case to which my 
country is a party, which certainly ensured the Court’s 
better  understanding  of  the  arguments  presented  by 
both parties.
Costa  Rica  sees  international  law,  especially  in 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  and  with  regard  to 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level,  as  the  tools 
that we need to endure. In our view, the compliance of 
all States with their international obligations vis-à-vis 
others, including by fully respecting and complying in 
good  faith  with  the  Court’s  decisions,  is  fundamental 
to ensuring justice and peace. That is why we insist on 
ensuring  that  the  Organization  considers  options  for 
following  up  on  judicial  decisions,  in  order  to  avoid 
situations of non-compliance that violate the rule of law.
The International Court of Justice plays a key role 
in the promotion and elaboration of the rule of law at 
the  international  level.  It  exercises  that  function  not 
only  through  its  advisory  opinions  and  judgments 
but  also  through  its  various  academic  and  publicity 
activities, and through easy access to its decisions via 
its electronic portal. In that regard, we are particularly 
pleased  to  note  the  Court’s  efforts  to  show  a  special 
interest in young people, promoting their exposure to 
international law through internship programmes. We 
also  highlight  once  again  the  role  that  the  Court  can 
play  in  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
as a body that has succeeded in preventing the use of 
force,  defending  peoples’  right  to  self-determination, 
advocating  the  preservation  of  the  environment  and 
recognizing  and  avoiding  potential  violations  of 
human rights.
My  delegation  accepted  the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction in 1973 and respectfully urges States that 
have not yet done so to consider using the mechanism 
provided  in  Article  36  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court  to 
accept its jurisdiction. We firmly believe that the Court 
will  continue  to  work  diligently  in  order  to  resolve 
the  disputes  submitted  to  it  fairly  and  impartially,  in 
accordance with the mandate entrusted to it by States 
through  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
regard, and in keeping with our traditional respect for 
the  instruments  of  international  law  and  the  rule  of 
law, my country reiterates its commitment to faithfully 
abiding by all the decisions of the Court, reaffirming 
our  full  confidence  that  the  Court  will  continue  to 
strengthen  peace  and  justice  through  the  objective 
fulfilment of its mission.
Mrs.  Orosan  (Romania):  We  have  witnessed 
yet  another  year  of  intensive  activity  on  the  part  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  On  behalf  of  my 
delegation,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Court for presenting its annual report (A/72/4), which 
gives  us  an  insightful  overview  of  this  most  valuable 
work.  We  are  grateful  to  the  Court  for  its  diligence, 
and  we  wish  to  express  our  thanks  to  the  President 
and the members of the Court, as well as the Registry, 
for  dealing  with  a  very  demanding  schedule  while 
maintaining  the  highest  standards  of  professionalism 
and impartiality.
It seems that the international legal order is being 
increasingly tested nowadays, with challenges coming 
from  many  corners.  Some  of  them  are  the  result  of 
States’ conduct, while others are based on developments 
and  processes  that  require  an  analysis  of  how  they 
might fit within the existing norms of international law 
or whether the existing law might have to be adjusted in 
order to deal with them. In that context, we look to the 
Court as one of the pillars of the supremacy of the rule 
of  law  in  international  relations.  By  settling  disputes 
between States and clarifying and refining the norms 
of  international  law,  the  Court  makes  an  enormous 
contribution to world peace and stability. Many disputes 
can  be  halted  in  their  tracks  by  the  Court  through  a 
judicious application of the norms of international law. 
The Court must remain a sought-after tool for resolving 
international  disputes,  and  for  that  it  has  to  maintain 
top-quality  judicial  work  and  be  fully  supported  by 
the States.
The  Court’s  current  docket  is  indicative  of  the 
role it plays in the peaceful resolution of international 
disagreements,  as  it  is  called  on  to  settle  extremely 
complex disagreements that are significant not just for 
the parties directly concerned but for the international 
community  as  a  whole.  We  therefore  contend  that  in 
order  for  the  Court  to  discharge  its  role,  it  needs  the 
strong support of States, including in terms of ensuring 
that it has adequate financial resources.
As  a  State  that  the  Court  has  been  seized  of  in 
the  past,  in  a  maritime  boundary  case,  and  that  has 
subsequently  accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of 
the Court, Romania is well placed to express its deep 
appreciation for the Court’s effectiveness and fairness. 
We  commend  the  world’s  most  important  judicial 
body  for  its  efforts  to  consolidate  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  international  level.  In  that  context,  we  call  on  all 
States to follow a rules-based approach in their foreign 
16/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
relations and especially to work to settle any disputes 
between  them  exclusively  by  peaceful  means  and  in 
accordance with international law.
Ms. Hioureas (Cyprus): It is a privilege to address 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  International  Court  of 
Justice’s  report  (A/72/4).  We  are  grateful  to  Judge 
Ronny Abraham for his introduction of the report and 
his insightful remarks on the work and functioning of 
the Court.
During the period under review, the International 
Court of Justice once again experienced a particularly 
high level of activity. It issued decisions in four cases, 
and  by  the  end  of  the  period  under  review,  its  list  of 
cases  reached  17.  That  consistently  high  workload 
demonstrates  the  confidence  placed  in  the  Court  and 
the respect shown to it by States. That trust is echoed 
in  resolution  71/146,  in  which  the  General  Assembly 
emphasized
“the  important  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, in adjudicating disputes among States and 
the  value  of  its  work,  as  well  as  the  importance 
of  having  recourse  to  the  Court  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes” (para. 8)
and also recalled that
“consistent  with  Article  96  of  the  Charter,  the 
Court’s  advisory  jurisdiction  may  be  requested 
by the General Assembly, the Security Council or 
other authorized organs of the United Nations and 
the specialized agencies” (ibid.).
The profound respect of the Republic of Cyprus for 
the remarkable achievements of the International Court 
of Justice was demonstrated by its presentation of a gift 
to the Court, in a ceremony that took place in The Hague 
on 18 November 2016, of a replica of a limestone head 
found at the sanctuary of Aphrodite in Arsos, Cyprus, 
officially  presented  to  Judge  Ronny  Abraham  by 
Ambassador  Alexandros  Zenon,  Permanent  Secretary 
of  the  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of Cyprus.
The  Republic  of  Cyprus  is  one  of  72  States  that 
have  made  a  declaration  recognizing  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  as  contemplated  by  Article 
36,  paragraphs  2  and  5,  of  the  Statute.  The  Court’s 
jurisdiction is further complemented by the more than 
3,000  bilateral  or  multilateral  treaties  or  conventions, 
which  provide  the  Court  with  jurisdiction  ratione 
materiae in the resolution of various types of disputes. 
We would like to take this opportunity to call on States 
to recognize the jurisdiction of the Court, in accordance 
with Article 36 of the Statute, thereby promoting and 
facilitating  the  International  Court  of  Justice’s  ability 
to  maintain  and  promote  the  rule  of  law  throughout 
the world.
Mr.  Alabrune  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
French  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Ronny 
Abraham,  for  his  briefing  on  the  International  Court 
of Justice’s report on its activities (A/72/4). The report 
is  particularly  useful  to  the  Assembly  and  the  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  as  it  testifies  to  its 
importance  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
between  States.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  reaffirm  France’s  commitment  to  the  Court  as  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations.
As its list of cases underscores, the Court has seen 
an  increase  in  its  activities  in  recent  decades.  Since 
the  publication  of  last  year’s  report  (A/71/4),  six  new 
cases  have  been  brought  before  the  Court.  That  is 
a  testament  to  the  confidence  that  States  have  in  the 
Court and their belief that its decisions will encourage 
peaceful  relations.  While  the  Court’s  judgments  are 
enforced based on the authority of the subject at hand, 
it  is  the  high  quality  of  the  Court’s  decisions  that 
strengthens respect and compliance with its judgments. 
The  references  to  the  jurisprudence  of  the  Court  by 
other international jurisdictions attest to that. Both the 
representation  of  the  world’s  principal  legal  systems 
within the membership of the Court and the use of its 
two official languages make an enormous contribution 
to improving the quality of its decisions.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  on 
behalf  of  France  to  express  to  the  Court,  the  Judges, 
the Registrar and the Court’s entire staff our profound 
gratitude for their outstanding work.
Mr.  Koch  (Germany)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  on  behalf  of  the  German  delegation,  I  would 
like to warmly thank Judge Ronny Abraham, President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  detailed 
presentation on the work of the International Court of 
Justice. We would also like to thank all the Judges and 
staff of the Court for their tireless efforts in the service 
of international law. This year we will hold elections for 
one third of the membership of the Court, which is also 
clearly  a  key  factor  in  its  success.  We  firmly  believe 
17-34488
17/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
that  ensuring  that  the  world’s  diverse  legal  systems, 
cultures and languages are represented in the Court’s 
composition contributes significantly to the quality and 
full acceptance of its work.
(spoke in English)
I would like to highlight a few additional points of 
particular importance.
First, 
remains 
the  consent  of  States 
the 
indispensable  foundation  on  which  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  based.  In  that 
regard,  in  2008  Germany  gave  its  consent,  in  the 
form  of  a  declaration  under  Article  36,  paragraph  2, 
of  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  recognizing  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  as  compulsory.  Like  previous  speakers 
today,  we  encourage  other  States  to  do  so  as  well. 
When  States  submit  to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  they 
must  respect  and  comply  with  its  decisions.  That  is 
true  not  only  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
but  also  for  other  international  courts  and  tribunals, 
and it refers both to decisions regarding the merits of 
a case and decisions on jurisdictions. Conversely, it is 
still crucial to recognize that without consent, parties 
cannot be subject to the jurisdiction of the Court. Any 
deviation  from  that  principle  would  gravely  endanger 
the  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  role  and  ultimately 
compromise its effectiveness as a whole.
However,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has 
a  particular  role  in  that  regard,  because  it  has  a  dual 
jurisdiction.  Besides  its  jurisdiction  in  contentious 
cases, it gives advisory opinions on legal questions at 
the request of organs of the United Nations, particularly 
the  General  Assembly.  But  we  must  not  blur  the  line 
between those two functions. The International Court 
of  Justice  should  not  admit  attempts  to  make  what  is 
essentially a dispute between two States into an abstract 
question of law.
Secondly,  I  would  like  to  highlight  an  issue  that 
some  describe  as  the  fragmentation  of  mechanisms 
for  the  resolution  of  international  disputes.  Today, 
the  international  community  benefits  not  only  from 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  a  means  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  but  also  from  other 
instruments such as the Permanent Court of Arbitration 
and  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the 
Sea.  I  encourage  States  and  courts  to  welcome  such 
diversification,  as  it  promotes  a  sensible  division  of 
labour and provides for options that meet the specific 
requirements of individual disputes and interests.
(spoke in French)
In conclusion, the report on the Court’s activities 
(A/72/4)  gives  an  impressive  overview  of  its  ever-
increasing workload during the past few years. I believe 
that  we  should  welcome  this  development,  which  is 
indicative of States’ growing acceptance of the role that 
the Court plays in the peaceful settlement of disputes 
in the field of international law. We call on all States to 
support the Court and its work, as Germany has always 
done and will continue to do without fail.
Mr. Locsin (Philippines): We align ourselves with 
the statement delivered earlier on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries by the representative of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran.
The United Nations was established in the wake of 
the two cruellest wars in history. The League of Nations 
was an ambitious attempt to unite the world’s Powers 
for peace after the First World War, but it failed. After 
the unimaginably greater horrors of the Second World 
War,  the  United  Nations  was  founded.  Its  founding 
purpose was therefore to maintain international peace 
and security and prevent any repetition of the horrors 
that  made  both  world  wars  so  infamous.  We  all  have 
the duty to work to bring about those ends by peaceful 
means, and to achieve the adjustment and settlement of 
international disputes and situations that might lead to 
conflict in accordance with the principles of justice and 
international law.
Judicial  settlement  is  a  uniquely  cost-effective 
mode for the peaceful settlement of disputes, while the 
cost  of  the  alternatives  is  incalculable.  No  price  can 
be put on lost and shattered lives. Well into its eighth 
decade, the International Court of Justice has become 
firmly  established  at  the  centre  of  the  international 
rule  of  law  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes. 
History has confirmed it and the General Assembly has 
recognized it time and again. The Philippines reaffirms 
its confidence in the Court and extends warm greetings 
to the entire team in The Hague, led by President Ronny 
Abraham, whom we also thank for his comprehensive 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  (A/72/4)  over  the 
past year.
Five years ago, the General Assembly also affirmed 
the Court’s essential contribution to the rule of law in 
paragraph 31 of the Declaration on the Rule of Law at 
the National and International Levels (resolution 67/1). 
The  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful  Settlement 
of  International  Disputes,  adopted  by  the  Assembly 
18/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
in  1982,  was 
the  first  comprehensive  plan  and 
consolidation  of  the  legal  framework  for  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes,  building  on  the 
Charter of the United Nations. It affirms the principle 
of judicial settlement and the central role of the Court.
The  Philippines  would  like  to  believe  that  the 
Manila  Declaration  gave  impetus  to  the  Court’s 
increased  activity  in  the  1980s  and  up  to  the  present 
day.  That  may  be  no  coincidence.  The  increasing 
confidence  of  Member  States,  especially  developing 
countries,  in  the  Court’s  integrity,  impartiality  and 
independence  is  not  unrelated  to  the  norms,  values 
and aspirations articulated in the Manila Declaration, 
the most fundamental of which is the principle of the 
non-use or threat of use of force.
The Court is the only forum for resolving justiciable 
disputes between States across the vast field of general 
international law. In the period under review the Court 
has  been  seized  of  17  cases,  ranging  from  territorial 
and  maritime  disputes, 
environmental  damage 
and  the  conservation  of  living  resources  to  nuclear 
disarmament  and  human  rights,  consular  rights,  the 
immunities of States and their representatives and the 
interpretation  and  application  of  international  treaties 
and  conventions.  Such  varied  subject  matter,  along 
with  the  diverse  geographical  spread  of  the  Court’s 
cases,  is  a  testament  to  the  Court’s  position  as  the 
only  international  court  of  universal  character  with 
general jurisdiction. However, of the 193 States parties 
to  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  only  72  States,  including 
the  Philippines  —  a  little  more  than  a  third  —  have 
made a declaration recognizing the jurisdiction of the 
Court as compulsory. That is why we reiterate our call 
to  the  Security  Council  to  consider  Article  96  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  more  seriously  and  to 
make greater use of the Court as a source of advisory 
opinions and for the interpretation of relevant norms of 
international law. The Security Council can take a leaf 
out  of  the  General  Assembly’s  book,  which,  through 
resolution  71/292,  has  requested  the  Court’s  advisory 
opinion on the legal consequences of the separation of 
the Chagos Archipelago from Mauritius in 1965.
The  Philippines  reaffirms  the  importance  of  the 
unanimous  advisory  opinion  of 
the  International 
Court of Justice of 8 July 1996 on the Legality of the 
threat or use of nuclear weapons. The Court concluded 
that there is an obligation to pursue in good faith and 
bring  to  a  conclusion  negotiations  leading  to  nuclear 
disarmament  in  all  aspects  under  strict  and  effective 
international control.
through  multimedia  platforms  and 
The  Philippines  supports  the  Court’s  efforts  to 
continually  adapt  its  working  methods  in  response  to 
its  increased  workload  and  to  publicize  its  decisions, 
including 
the 
Internet.  We  must  help  the  Court  reach  out  and  work 
with  young  people  from  various  backgrounds  and 
in  various  venues,  so  as  to  internalize  and  entrench 
universal  norms  of  conduct  in  individuals  and  States, 
until seeing that justice is done, and keeping the peace, 
become reflexive actions — as for so many centuries 
their opposites have been in humankind’s sad history.
On that note, the Assembly can continue to count on 
the Philippines as a strong supporter of the International 
Court of Justice.
Mr. Troncoso Repetto (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  would  like  to  convey  my  country’s  greetings  to 
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  who  has  provided  us  with  a 
comprehensive  report  (A/72/4)  for  the  period  from 
1  August  2016  to  31  July  2017.  It  indicates  that  the 
Court  has  done  intensive  work  over  the  reporting 
period,  addressing  increasingly  varied  issues,  which 
is  a  challenge  and  an  opportunity  for  reaffirming  the 
role of international law in relations among States and 
the values it should promote and protect. We commend 
the updating of the Court’s website, which gives users 
a broader and more comprehensive acquaintance with 
its activities.
The cases currently before the Court deal with very 
diverse  matters  that  encompass,  among  other  things, 
territorial  and  maritime  issues,  consular  law,  human 
rights, international liability and reparation of damages 
and  the  immunity  of  States  and  their  representatives 
and property, all of which require skilled interpretation 
and application of the sources described in Article 38 
of its Statute.
Through  its  decisions,  the  Court,  as  the  principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, performs a vital 
role  in  support  of  the  validity  and  effectiveness  of 
international  law.  Moreover,  it  generates  valuable 
case  law  that  contributes  to  better  knowledge  and 
determination of applicable international law. The Court 
has thus become an essential organ in the functioning 
of an international legal order that is called on to foster 
peaceful coexistence among peoples, prevent conflicts 
and  promote  confidence  in  a  universally  respected 
17-34488
19/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
legal  order.  We  appreciate  the  International  Court  of 
Justice’s  lofty  responsibilities,  mission  and  work, 
which  reflect  the  pre-eminence  of  international  law. 
For States to accept the jurisdiction of the Court, it is 
crucial to ensure their confidence that it is carrying out 
its work according to the highest standards of integrity, 
impartiality  and  independence,  in  the  context  of 
international law and in accordance with the principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  for 
guaranteeing peaceful coexistence among States.
As 
the  Assembly 
is  aware,  my  country 
is 
currently  a  party  to  two  cases  whose  proceedings 
are  before  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  that 
have  required  special  attention.  As  we  participate  in 
them,  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  international 
law  and  peaceful  relations  among  States.  As  we  have 
repeatedly stated, one of the central principles guiding 
Chile’s  foreign  policy  is  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international  disputes,  together  with  the  principle  of 
the  importance  of  respect  for  international  treaties  as 
an expression of consent governed by international law. 
The strict observance of treaties, their implementation 
in good faith and their stability over time are essential 
conditions for peaceful relations among nations.
Chile has total faith in the application of international 
law  in  relations  with  other  States.  That  commitment 
compels us all to respect the fundamental principles of 
coexistence among States and to refrain from engaging 
in  conduct  that  could  affect  the  normal  development 
of  those  relations.  That  is  particularly  relevant  in 
situations  where  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is 
conducting  proceedings  on  specific  cases.  We  should 
also  remember  that  once  a  case  has  been  referred  to 
the Court, the Court alone has competence to address 
it.  It  is  not  acceptable  for  an  issue  that  is  sub  judice 
to be referred simultaneously to bodies or forums of a 
political nature.
We  join  others  in  their  expressions  of  respect 
and  support  for  the  Court  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ of the United Nations system, and trust that the 
Organization will continue to furnish it with the human 
and  material  resources  that  its  judicial  mandate  and 
important functions require.
Mrs.  Mangklatanakul  (Thailand):  The  Kingdom 
of  Thailand  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier by the Permanent Representative of the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned Countries.
My delegation would like to express its appreciation 
to Judge Ronny Abraham for his comprehensive report 
(A/72/4) on the activities of the International Court of 
Justice in the past year. Thailand would like to affirm 
its full confidence in the Court, the principal judicial 
organ of the United Nations, in its efforts to safeguard 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and maintain international peace and security.
The diversity and complexity of the cases submitted 
to the International Court of Justice add tremendously 
to  the  Court’s  indispensable  role  and  contribution, 
through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions,  to  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  advancement 
of  the  rule  of  law  and  beyond.  Moreover,  we  cannot 
overemphasize  the  extent  to  which  the  Court  plays  a 
significant  part  in  the  progressive  development  of 
international law by clarifying and amplifying it and by 
promoting a greater understanding of it at every level.
We  follow  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice closely and with great interest. In this respect, 
Thailand wishes to congratulate the Court for providing 
another layer of predictability in international relations 
by  clarifying  the  substantive  customary  international 
law codified in the Vienna Convention on the Law of 
Treaties with regard to the validity and interpretation 
of  treaties.  In  particular,  in  its  judgment  rendered  on 
2 February 2017 in the case Maritime Delimitation in 
the Indian Ocean (Somalia v. Kenya), the Court ruled on 
the legal status and objectives of the 2009 Memorandum 
of Understanding between the two countries.
With  regard  to  the  case  Obligations  concerning 
Negotiations  relating  to  Cessation  of  the  Nuclear 
Arms  Race  and  to  Nuclear  Disarmament  (Marshall 
Islands  v.  India),  we  note  that  the  Court  ruled  that 
it  had  no  jurisdiction  in  the  absence  of  a  dispute 
between  the  parties.  However,  my  delegation  is  of 
the view that the Court missed a great opportunity to 
express  its  views  and  provide  greater  certainty  and 
predictability  by  interpreting  article  VI  of  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  in  a 
binding manner, which is still very much needed today. 
Furthermore,  Thailand  is  interested  in  the  question 
raised by the International Court of Justice in this case 
as  to  whether  or  not  votes  cast  by  Member  States  on 
draft  resolutions  before  such  political  organs  as  the 
General  Assembly  can  be  construed  to  indicate  or 
imply the existence of a legal dispute between parties. 
We  believe  that  this  question  needs  further  attention 
and deliberation.
20/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
to  encourage 
Thailand  wishes 
the  General 
Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  other  organs, 
including  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations, to make greater use of the International Court 
of  Justice  and  support  its  role  in  issuing  advisory 
opinions on important topics in accordance with Article 
96  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Although 
these  advisory  opinions  and  other  obiter  dictum  of 
the Court are not legally binding in nature, they carry 
moral  and  persuasive  authority  that  can  have  a  broad 
impact and lead to the peaceful settlement of disputes 
without parties having to undergo lengthy contentious 
proceedings.
My delegation cannot emphasize enough how much 
importance we attach to the work of the International 
Court  of  Justice.  Throughout  the  year,  its  Judges  and 
Registry  work  daily  to  ensure  that  the  rule  of  law  is 
upheld  and  to  maintain  a  world  of  peace.  In  the  light 
of  this  fact,  we  are  of  the  view  that,  above  all  else, 
the  integrity  and  independence  of  its  Judges  must  be 
maintained.  There  should  be  a  pension  scheme  for 
members of the Court so that they can enjoy security 
and  equal  treatment  when  they  retire  from  their  long 
years  of  service  to  the  international  community  as 
adjudicants  of  international  disputes.  We  therefore 
welcome the decision taken by the General Assembly in 
the last session to extend the discussion with regard to 
their retirement benefits to its seventy-fourth session.
to 
Thailand  also  wishes 
thank  Mr.  Philippe 
Couvreur,  Registrar  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  for  educating  and  sharing  his  wisdom  and 
insight  with  young  Thai  lawyers  specializing  in 
international law at the lecture series organized by the 
Department of Treaties and Legal Affairs of Thailand 
in  Bangkok  in  February.  We  commend  the  Registry’s 
role  in  upholding  the  rule  of  law  and  promoting  the 
wider appreciation of international law to that end. We 
hope that useful programmes like the lecture series will 
be offered in future.
Finally,  for  all  the  foregoing  reasons,  Thailand 
once  again  wishes  to  express  its  gratitude  to  all  the 
Judges,  the  Registrar  and  the  Registry  staff  for  their 
unwavering dedication and commitment to maintaining 
peace, justice and the rule of law within the international 
community.
Mr.  Skinner-Klée 
in 
Spanish):  Guatemala  takes  the  opportunity  provided 
by  the  presentation  today  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
(Guatemala) 
(spoke 
International Court of Justice to the General Assembly 
(A/72/4)  to  share  its  views  on  the  Court’s  role  in 
promoting  the  rule  of  law,  following  the  invitation 
extended to us by the Assembly in resolution 71/148 of 
13 December 2016.
We  are  aware  that,  during  the  past  20  years,  the 
workload  of  the  Court  has  increased  considerably.  In 
this regard, the President of the Court, His Excellency 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  in  his  statement  before  the 
General Assembly on 27 October 2016, stressed that the 
Court had not lost sight of
“the  importance  of  continually  reflecting  on  the 
need to adapt the Court’s working methods in order 
to respond to the increase in its workload and the 
complexity  of  the  cases  submitted  to  it”  (A/71/
PV.34, p.8).
Guatemala  recognizes  that  the  Court  plays  a 
fundamental role in the maintenance and promotion of 
the rule of law throughout the world. In that regard, my 
delegation notes with satisfaction that, in paragraph 8 
of resolution 71/146, of 13 December 2016, the General 
Assembly recognizes the 
“important role of the International Court of Justice, 
the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, 
in adjudicating disputes among States and the value 
of  its  work,  as  well  as  the  importance  of  having 
recourse to the Court in the peaceful settlement of 
disputes”,
which  is  an  assertion  that  we  endorse  today  as  both 
valuable and necessary.
The fundamental role of the Court in the system of 
peacefully settling disputes between States established 
by the Charter of the United Nations is recognized at the 
global level, which is why we must emphasize that all 
of the Court’s endeavours are aimed at promoting and 
strengthening the rule of law. Through its judgments and 
advisory opinions, the Court contributes to interpreting 
and strengthening international and customary law, as 
well as generally accepted practices, making them all 
more robust.
Accordingly,  the  President  and  other  members 
of  the  Court,  the  Registry  and  other  staff  members 
periodically  speak  and  participate  in  forums,  both  in 
The  Hague  and  elsewhere,  on  the  Court’s  operations, 
proceedings  and  jurisprudence.  These  presentations 
allow the public to gain better knowledge of the work 
of the Court, both in terms of contentious proceedings 
17-34488
21/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
and  consultative  activities.  In  this  regard,  aware 
that  the  Court  seeks  to  achieve  the  greatest  possible 
understanding  and  dissemination  of  its  decisions 
worldwide through its publications, we call for the use 
of  all  official  languages    of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
important  work  the  Court  publishes  so  as  to  achieve 
greater dissemination and wider reach.
During  the  reporting  period,  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  had  a  particularly  heavy  workload, 
with  19  pending  contentious  cases  and  one  pending 
advisory  procedure,  in  addition  to  having  issued  four 
judgments  and  14  orders.  During  this  same  period, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  held  five  hearings 
and  dealt  with  five  new  contentious  cases  as  well  as 
one request for an advisory opinion. In addition, as of 
31 July 2017, the Court still had 17 cases pending.
The  outstanding  contentious  causes  affect  States 
on  four  continents,  among  which  six  States  of  the 
Americas, five States of Africa, five States of Europe 
and five States of Asia are involved. This geographical 
diversity among the cases reflects the universal nature 
of the jurisdiction of the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations. We reiterate our respect for the Court 
and praise it for its work.
Mr. Alday González (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mexico thanks Judge Ronny Abraham, President of the 
International Court of Justice, for presenting the report 
on  the  activities  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
during  the  reporting  period  (A/72/4).  The  number 
of  cases  being  heard,  including  the  submission  of 
new  cases  and  a  request  for  an  advisory  opinion,  are 
a  testament  to  the  dynamic  nature  of  the  Court  and 
reflect its relevance, given that States continue to turn 
to it for the resolution of their disputes. The report also 
reflects  the  universality  of  the  Court,  demonstrating 
the regional diversity of its cases and the range of issues 
that  are  addressed,  including  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes, 
law,  human  rights, 
environmental law, international accountability and the 
question of damages, immunity and the interpretation 
and application of international treaties.
issues  of  consular 
The volume of the International Court of Justice’s 
judicial  activity  is  unique  and  distinct  from  that  of 
other  international  courts  and  tribunals.  International 
criminal tribunals and human rights tribunals seek to 
dissuade  actors  from  perpetrating  crimes  and  other 
violations  of  human  dignity,  with  the  ultimate  goal 
of  one  day  having  no  cases  to  consider.  In  contrast, 
recourse  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  will 
always be attractive for States, with the increase in its 
case  load  being  a  healthy  symptom  of  the  preference 
for  peaceful  solutions  to  controversies,  as  opposed  to 
confrontation.  For  my  delegation,  that  will  always  be 
the best approach. However, in order to guarantee that 
recourse to the Court remains an attractive option for 
States, it is necessary for the Court’s judgments to be 
upheld. Adjudication alone is not enough to restore the 
rule of law when it is violated. Rather, adjudication is 
a  prerequisite  for  taking  measures  to  restore  law  and 
order.
Although paragraph 2 of Article 94 of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  indicates  that  the  Security 
Council  can  take  action  in  cases  of  non-compliance 
with  the  obligations  imposed  by  a  Court  ruling,  the 
political  considerations  surrounding    the  Security 
Council sometimes make it an inefficient and therefore 
ineffective  mechanism,  which  can  no  doubt  generate 
frustration  among  the  States  that  have  decided  to 
submit their disputes to the Court in good faith. Mexico 
is no stranger to that reality. Nevertheless, we remain 
convinced that a simple, well-reasoned decision to call 
upon  the  Court  must  alone  represent  a  willingness 
to  comply  with  its  rulings.  Paragraph  1  of  Article  94 
of  the  Charter,  on  good-faith  compliance  with  the 
Court’s decisions, should always take precedence of the 
Article’s  second  paragraph.  Therefore,  it  is  important 
to  uphold  the  finality  of  the  Court’s  judgments;  such 
finality is set forth in Article 60 of the Statute of the 
Court. 
While each and every one of the Court’s judgments 
serves to consolidate the rule of law at the international 
level, the Court’s impact extends beyond its judgments. 
Its openness to participating in and holding discussions 
in different forums, whether official or academic, with 
a range of stakeholders, also serves that purpose.
The world is facing new challenges. At a time when 
the drift towards isolationism and detachment from the 
multilateral  order  appears  increasingly  tempting,  the 
validity of international law put to the test almost daily. 
This is a moment when the pre-eminence of the Charter 
of the United Nations becomes key and when the need 
for a strong Court is at its greatest, whose judgments 
are  seen  as  success  stories  in  our  commitment  to  the 
law.  We  must  therefore  make  greater  efforts  for  the 
work  of  the  Court  to  be  known.  Court  cases  should 
not only be understood and analysed in governmental 
and academic circles, but should also reach the widest 
22/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
possible audience so that, in difficult times, the United 
Nations, through its principal judicial body, can be seen 
to provide concrete results that allow for the peaceful 
restoration of the rule of law. 
We, 
to 
upholding 
international 
the  Member  States,  must  honour  our 
commitments 
law. 
Strengthening the Court also means giving it our vote of 
confidence by recognizing its compulsory jurisdiction. 
We therefore strongly welcome the fact that Equatorial 
Guinea  has  recently  joined  the  group  of  States  that 
have  expressly  recognized  that  jurisdiction.  We  can 
also  support  the  Court  in  other  ways,  for  example, 
by  including  jurisdictional  clauses  in  international 
treaties,  by  applying  forum  prorogatum  or  by  calling 
upon  the  Court’s  advisory  function,  keeping  in  mind 
that the number of contentious cases in the past decade 
has been greater than all the advisory opinions issued 
by the Court since its inception. 
its  mandate. 
Finally,  we  must  ensure  that  the  Organization 
endows the Court with the funds it needs to effectively 
fulfil 
the  unwavering 
commitment  of  Mexico  to  the  settlement  of  disputes 
through peaceful means and therefore its commitment 
to the International Court of Justice.
reiterate 
I 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
country’s  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representatives of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  and  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Group of African States, respectively. 
We  thank  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the 
report  on  its  judicial  activity  from  1  August  2016  to 
31 July 2017 (A/72/4).
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and 
security  is  one  of  the  most  important  objectives  of 
the United Nations. This objective is enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations as one of the reasons for 
the  creation  of  the  Organization.  One  of  the  essential 
principles of the Charter is that all Member States must 
strive to resolve their international disputes by peaceful 
means that do not pose a threat to international peace 
and security.
We  commend  the  United  Nations  and  its  ongoing 
commitment  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, 
which it has demonstrated on several occasions, with, for 
example, the Declaration on Principles of International 
Law  concerning  Friendly  Relations  and  Cooperation 
among  States  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  1970,  the  Manila  Declaration  on 
the  Peaceful  Settlement  of  International  Disputes,  in 
1982, and the 2005 World Summit Outcome. The same 
can be said for a number of international instruments 
that  were  recently  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council. The Charter should not just 
urge  States  to  peacefully  settle  their  disputes,  but  it 
should  also  provide  a  platform  for  doing  so,  pursuant 
to  international  law;  this  is  the  prime  task  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
  In  order  for  the  Court,  as  the  principal  judicial 
body  of  the  United  Nations,  to  be  able  to  settle 
disputes,  however,  the  States  concerned  must  accept 
its  jurisdiction,  which  can  be  done  in  various  ways, 
including  through  a  special  agreement  whereby  a 
country  becomes  party  to  a  treaty  that  stipulates  that 
the Court is the body responsible for the arbitration or 
settlement  of  disputes  arising  from  the  treaty,  or,  in 
the  alternative,  it  could  issue  a  unilateral  declaration 
accepting  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  Accordingly,  the 
number  of  States  accepting  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
has  increased,  which  has  allowed  the  Court  to  carry 
out its work more effectively, bring about the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  maintain  international  peace, 
and enable States to develop friendly relations based on 
the rule of law.
In  recent  years, 
the  Court’s  activities  have 
substantially increased, with an increasing number of 
Member  States  referring  to  it  as  the  appropriate  and 
effective  venue  for  ensuring  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes.  The  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the  Court 
covers all cases referred to it by States parties,  as well 
as  all  matters  related  to  the  authority  of  the  Charter, 
and  treaties  and  conventions  in  force;  its  authority  is 
supported by the universal character of the judgments it 
issues. As a result, the Court  is the organ of choice by 
States for the resolution of legal disputes. 
To  further  energize  that  dynamic  and  encourage 
States  to  refer  their  disputes  to  the  Court,  the 
Secretary-General  launched  a  campaign  in  2013  to 
increase the number of States accepting the compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court under Article 36, paragraph 2, 
of its Statute and to encourage States that had lodged 
reservations  with  regard  to  arbitration  articles  in 
international treaties to withdraw them. This campaign 
was  successful  and  constructive  and  underscored  the 
importance of the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes.  Still,  it  is  important  that  the  campaign  be 
extended.  To  that  end,  my  country’s  delegation  feels 
that  it  is  especially  important  for  Member  States  to 
17-34488
23/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
support  United  Nations  endeavours  and  participate  in 
any  initiative  that  promotes  accepting  the  universal 
jurisdiction of the Court.
As a judicial organ, the International Court of Justice 
is an especially attractive venue because the Court can 
be seized of all legal disputes under international law. 
Indeed,  unlike  other  mechanisms  aimed  at  settling 
disputes,  the  scope  of  the  Court  is  not  limited  to  one 
single  area  of  international  law.  Any  dispute  can  be 
referred  to  it,  provided  that  the  parties  to  the  dispute 
wish to have it resolved there. The Court offers a number 
of  options  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  as 
well  as  the  means  to  break  deadlocks  effectively  and 
in  a  cost-efficient  manner.  It  delivers  authoritative 
judgments  and,  more  importantly,  plays  a  major  role 
in  establishing  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level.  By  applying  the  law  to  its  cases,  it  establishes 
and develops international law, thereby promoting the 
rule of law more generally. In other words, when States 
consent to and accept the jurisdiction of the Court as 
parties to a case within its jurisdiction, they are clearly 
indicating their recognition and respect for the rule of 
law.  That  is  beneficial  not  just  for  consenting  States, 
but  for  international  law  in  and  of  itself,  and  for  the 
entire international community.
international 
law, 
tools  developed  under 
In conclusion, my country’s delegation calls on all 
Member States to make use of the various mechanisms 
and 
in 
particular  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  to  settle 
disputes peacefully, and expresses its appreciation for 
the Court and all the steps that it has taken to fulfil its 
mandate as effectively as possible. We underscore the 
importance of finding ways to strengthen the Court and 
bolster its role, as it is the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations. 
From this rostrum, we call on the General Assembly 
and the Security Council to exercise wherever possible 
the  power  conferred    upon  them  by    Article  96  of 
the  Charter  to  request  advisory  opinions  from  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  on  any  legal  issue.  We 
also  encourage  other  countries  to  consider  referring 
their disputes to the Court, using all possible means set 
forth in its Statute. Moreover, we urge States that have 
not yet done so to accept the jurisdiction of the Court in 
accordance with its Statute.
Mrs. Rolón Candia (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  commend  and  congratulate  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham  in 
his capacity as President of the International Court of 
Justice, as well as the other judges of that international 
judicial body, for their hard work in advocating for the 
universal consecration of the principle of the peaceful 
settlement  of 
international  disputes.  My  country 
welcomes  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  for  the  period  from  1  August  2016  to  31  July 
2017 (A/72/4). 
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  has  a  long-standing 
tradition  with  regard  to  multilateral  issues,  as  one  of 
the  founders  of  the  now-defunct  League  of  Nations, 
and its successor, the United Nations. In the Republic 
of Paraguay, the rule of law prevails, international law 
is accepted, and the general principles that govern its 
international relations and its domestic legal system are 
adapted in accordance with its Magna Carta. We have 
also enshrined in our law both the renunciation of war 
and the inherent right to legitimate self-defence in cases 
of  aggression.  The  Republic  of  Paraguay  reiterates 
its  commitment  to  and  unconditional  respect  for  the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations, in particular the peaceful settlement of 
international  disputes  and  the  abstention  from  use  or 
threat of use of force.
With regard to the jurisdiction of the International 
Court of Justice, the Republic of Paraguay is currently 
celebrating the twenty-first anniversary of depositing its 
declaration of acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction 
of the Court in relation to any other State accepting the 
same  obligation,  with  the  goal  of  settling  ex  nunc  all 
disputes provided for in Article 36, paragraph 2, of the 
Statute  of  the  Court.  It  is  worth  mentioning  that  the 
only limitation Paraguay places on its acceptance of the 
Court’s jurisdiction is ratione temporis. Consequently, 
our acceptance may be view to be very broad in terms 
of the legal disputes set forth in the Statute.
We take this opportunity to share with the General 
Assembly  the  fact  that  Paraguay’s  experience  with 
respect  to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  dates  back  to  the 
American  Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement  of  1948,  also 
known as Pact of Bogotá, which  aimed at ensuring the 
abstention  from  use  or  the  threat  of  the  use  of  force, 
or  any  other  means  of  coercion,  in  the  settlement 
of  disputes,  and  the  recourse  at  all  times  to  peaceful 
procedures whereby the high contracting parties declare 
that they accept ipso facto the compulsory jurisdiction 
of  the  Court  with  respect  to  any  other  State  of  the 
Americas. The importance of this regional instrument 
is therefore worth emphasizing.
24/26 
17-34488
26/10/2017 
A/72/PV.34
The  Republic  of  Paraguay,  a  peace-loving  State, 
commends  the  other  72  States  that  have  accepted  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  in  particular 
Equatorial  Guinea,  the  Netherlands,  Pakistan  and  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
each of which recently deposited a declaration to this 
end. This should encourage the international community 
to continue to pool its efforts aimed at promoting the 
rule of law and the principle of the peaceful settlement 
of international disputes. We urge those States that have 
not yet done so to accept the jurisdiction of the Court.
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  wishes  to  highlight 
the  advisory  work  of  the  Court,  which,  since  its 
establishment,  has  issued  more  than  20  advisory 
opinions.  Set  alongside  its  judgments,  the  advisory 
opinions  have  helped 
to  bring  about  a  greater 
understanding  of  international  law  in  general  and  its 
further  development.  Similarly,  with  regard  to  its  
publications, both in print and digitally, the Republic of 
Paraguay encourages the Court to continue to publish 
its work and to ensure in particular that its publications 
are available in all the official languages   of the United 
Nations. In addition, the delegation of Paraguay wishes 
to encourage Member States to pool their efforts with a 
view to guaranteeing the financial resources the Court 
needs  for  its  work  to  be  sustainable.  As  we  wish  the 
judges of the Court continued success in their functions 
in  the  current  and  future  phases  of  their  work,  my 
delegation  encourages  them  to  continue  to  strive  for 
legal equality among States and to make strides towards 
true universal peace.
Finally,  with  respect  to  the  principle  of  the  legal 
equality  of  States,  which  is  one  of  the  cornerstones 
of  international  law,  we  wish  to  recall  the  words  of 
Manuel Gondra Pereira, a Paraguayan intellectual from 
the last century, who in 1924, at the fifth Pan-American 
Conference, held in Santiago, Chile, said,
“In  a  conflict  between  States,  the  weak  may  be 
just, the strong also be just. But the injustice of one 
may be constrained by its own fragility, while the 
injustice of the other may seek to reach wherever 
its strength allows. Therefore, since the just cannot 
always  be  strong,  we  have  pledged  to  make  sure 
that the strong is always just.”
Mr. Bin Momen (Bangladesh): Bangladesh thanks 
Judge  Ronny  Abraham,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  his  comprehensive  report,  which 
details  the  judgments  rendered  by  the  Court  during 
the  reporting  period  (A/72/4).  We  also  take  note  of 
the measures adopted to make the Court function with 
enhanced efficiency and visibility.
itself  with 
Bangladesh  aligns 
the  statement 
delivered by the representative of the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  We 
thank the Court and its President for handing down a 
considerable  number  of  orders  during  the  reporting 
period.
Bangladesh attaches great importance to the crucial 
role  played  by  the  Court  in  promoting  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes,  as  set  forth  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Court  has  a 
crucial role to play in upholding and promoting the rule 
of  law  and  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  We  highlight  the  power  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  other  authorized 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  specialized 
agencies  with  in  its  principal  organs,  to  invoke  the 
Court’s advisory jurisdiction.
the 
that 
Bangladesh  believes 
international 
community’s sustained confidence in the International 
Court of Justice’s work is manifest through the broad 
range  of  subjects  of  the  cases  submitted  to  it.  The 
diversity  of  the  subject  matter  further  illustrates  the 
general  character  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  While 
Bangladesh acknowledges the possibility of submitting 
cases involving contentious and protracted disputes on 
a wide range of subjects to the Court for authoritative 
judgments, orders and advisory opinions, we consider 
it advisable to submit cases matters of sufficient weight 
so  as  to  avoid  overloading  the  Court’s  already  heavy 
workload, especially when many of those issues can be 
resolved through other legal and peaceful means.
As  a  nation  with  unequivocal  commitment  to 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  Bangladesh 
duly  acknowledges  the  Court’s  judgments,  advisory 
opinions  and  ongoing  work  with  respect  to  territorial 
integrity and sovereignty, the unlawful use of force, and 
interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  States,  among 
other  issues.  Bangladesh  continues  to  follow  with 
interest  the  Court’s  work  on  territorial  and  maritime 
disputes and on the conservation of natural and living 
resources.  We  have  demonstrated  our  commitment  to 
the international rule of law by resolving outstanding 
boundary-delimitation  issues  with  our  neighbouring 
countries through legal and peaceful means.
17-34488
25/26
A/72/PV.34 
26/10/2017
Bangladesh  recalls  the  Court’s  valuable  role  in 
paving the way for the landmark adoption of Treaty on 
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons that we signed this 
year. Every year, we continue to co-sponsor the General 
Assembly  draft  resolution  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the 
Advisory Opinion of the International Court of Justice 
on the legality of the threat or use of nuclear weapons”.
Bangladesh  acknowledges  the  need  for  adequate 
resources to ensure the proper functioning of the Court 
and urges all Member States to give due consideration 
to  the  Court’s  requests  in  this  regard.  We  take  note 
with appreciation of the efforts being made to further 
upgrade the Court’s visibility online, including through 
its  website,  and  to  enhance  the  use  of    information 
and  communications  technologies  in  tandem  with  the 
growing volume and complexity of its work. We thank 
the Court for broadening its outreach to include more 
young  people  and  students.  We  would  recommend 
that  the  Court  and  its  Registry  consider  ways  to 
allow  eligible  students  from  the  least  developed  and 
developing  countries  to  benefit  from  the  hands-on 
experience of working with the Court.
Bangladesh  remains  mindful  of 
the  General 
Assembly’s  call  upon  States  to  accept  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction 
its  Statute.  The 
authorities  concerned  should  keep  this  issue  under 
active consideration.
in  accordance  with 
Mr.  Lefeber  (Netherlands):  I  would  like,  first 
of  all,  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ronny  Abraham, 
President of the International Court of Justice, for his 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  (A/72/4)  and  for  the  outstanding  work  of 
the Court as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations. The Kingdom of the Netherlands continues to 
be proud to be the host country of the Court.
the  compulsory 
My  Government  recently  renewed  its  declaration 
of  acceptance  of 
jurisdiction  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  with  a  view  to 
eliminating prior limitations on the jurisdiction of the 
Court  in  contentious  cases  involving  the  Kingdom  of 
the Netherlands. Our only remaining reservation to the 
Court’s jurisdiction is now one of ratione temporis: the 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  will  accept  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  all  disputes  arising  out  of  facts  or 
situations arising no earlier than 100 years before the 
dispute is brought before the Court.
We  would  encourage  all  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accept 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court by issuing a 
declaration  pursuant  to  Article  36  of  the  Statute.  We 
would also invite those States declaring acceptance of 
the Court’s jurisdiction to do so with as few reservations 
as possible. 
In this context, my Government notes with concern 
recent  developments  that  point  in  the  direction  of 
more,  rather  than  fewer,  reservations  being  declared 
with respect to acceptance of the Court’s jurisdiction. 
The Kingdom of the Netherlands considers additional 
limitations of the Court’s jurisdiction to be undesirable 
and  therefore  would  invite  States  that  have  entered 
reservations  to  reconsider  them  and  amend  their 
declarations  to  remove  limitations  on  the  exercise  of 
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
26/26 
17-34488
