United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
17th plenary meeting
Friday, 22 September 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.17
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Brown 
(Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Address by His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of 
the Kingdom of Tonga
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the King of the Kingdom of Tonga.
King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom of Tonga, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Majesty  King  Tupou  VI,  King  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Tonga,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
King  Tupou  VI:  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Mr. Lajčák on his assumption of the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session and to 
assure him that the Tonga delegation will fully support 
his  able  leadership  in  revitalizing  and  enhancing  the 
crucial  role  of  the  United  Nations.  I  am  grateful  to 
his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson, 
a  distinguished  son  of  the  Pacific  islands  region,  for 
advancing the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development  and  successfully  convening 
the  inaugural  Ocean  Conference  this  year.  I  also 
commend  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres for his sterling stewardship since he began his 
first year at the helm of the United Nations. The Tonga 
delegation will fully support his important reform work.
We send our message of solidarity and sympathy to 
the people of Mexico and to their families and friends 
affected by the devastating earthquake, as well as to the 
millions of people in the Caribbean and all those affected 
in recent weeks by the ravages of successive hurricanes.
My  delegation  and  I  welcome  the  timely  and 
relevant  theme  of  this  year’s  session —  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a  sustainable  planet”.  It  essentially  emphasizes  the 
peaceful well-being of all people and the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  our  global  resources  for 
present  and  future  generations.  What  is  now  crucial 
is  implementation,  through  sincere  partnerships,  to 
collectively achieve the targets, goals and objectives set 
under international law and the internationally agreed 
outcomes.  In  contributing  to  the  implementation  of 
the 2030 Agenda, including the internationally agreed 
blueprint for the sustainable development of small island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  and  the  SIDS  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway,  Tonga  has 
established a national monitoring mechanism, for which 
we would like to acknowledge the support of the United 
Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The  United  Nations  Development  Assistance 
Framework 2013-2017 will conclude at the end of this 
year. The five-year programme cycle for 14 Pacific island 
countries,  the  United  Nations  Pacific  Strategy  2018-
2022, which was signed in August 2017 at the UNDP 
Pacific  Office,  will  commence  after  that.  The  close 
partnership between the Government of Tonga and the 
United Nations system for effectively implementing the 
integrated Tonga strategic development framework and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29722 (E)
*1729722*
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
the 2030 Agenda is reinforced, through the coordination 
of  United  Nations  Pacific  Strategy  2018-2022,  by  the 
United Nations Joint Presence Office delivering as one, 
led  by  UNDP  in  Tonga.  It  is  strategically  positioned 
to  provide 
the  Government, 
non-governmental organizations, civil society and the 
private sector.
technical  advice 
to 
We  also  note 
the  Secretary-General’s  new 
senior-management  appointments  and  welcome  the 
appointment  of  the  first  woman  from  Tonga  and 
the  Pacific  islands  region  to  shepherd  the  important 
advocacy and facilitation work in the years ahead for the 
United  Nations  Office  of  the  High  Representative  for 
the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing 
Countries and Small Island Developing States. We fully 
support the goal of gender parity, including at all levels 
in the Organization.
The 2017 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable 
Development  enabled  us  to  review  seven  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  in  particular 
Goal 3, on good health and well-being; Goal 5 on gender 
equality and the empowerment of women and girls; and 
Goal 14 on the ocean and its resources. We commend 
the President of the Economic and Social Council for his 
initiative in devoting adequate time to underscore and 
examine  the  complex  sustainability  challenges  facing 
SIDS, as a special case, and thereby enhancing efforts 
to implement the commitments called for in the Samoa 
Pathway.  The  High-level  Political  Forum  remains  an 
important way to assess the follow-up, monitoring and 
accountability  of  commitments  to  SIDS,  which  are 
essentially  linked  to  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda.
We fully support Fiji’s presidency this year of the 
twenty-third Conference of Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, with a view 
to strongly addressing the adverse impacts of climate 
change and the urgent need for innovation in adaptation 
for SIDS. We note the role of the International Monetary 
Fund,  the  World  Bank,  and  the  Asian  Development 
Bank  in  making  disaster  finance  and  other  financial 
tools  available  to  all  SIDS.  While  we  acknowledge 
their work on expanding the definition of fragility, we 
urge  for  further  refinement  of  operational  financing 
decisions so as to include the drivers of vulnerability 
that the Pacific islands region experiences, particularly 
natural  disasters  and  adverse  economic  shocks.  We 
reiterate  our  call  for  the  appointment  of  a  special 
representative  for  climate  and  security  to  ensure  that 
the United Nations system has the appropriate tools to 
respond effectively and efficiently to climate change as 
an existential threat and a mounting security challenge 
for SIDS and the entire international community.
Enhanced 
access 
and 
to  modern 
clean 
sustainable-energy  services,  energy  efficiency  and 
the  use  of  economically  viable  and  environmentally 
sound  technology  and  research  play  a  critical  role  in 
our  sustainable  development.  Mitigation  efforts  are 
also essential to overcoming the challenges of excessive 
dependence  on  imported  fossil  fuels.  To  further 
strengthen  international  and  regional  cooperation, 
the  Pacific  Centre  for  Renewable  Energy  and  Energy 
Efficiency  was  established  in  Tonga  in  April.  The 
Centre  provides  valuable  support  to  Pacific  island 
countries  and  territories  in  advancing  their  various 
priorities  and  commitments  in  achieving  sustainable 
energy  and  contributing  to  SDGs  7,  9  and  13.  It  is  a 
partnership  that  includes  the  Pacific  Community,  the 
Government of Austria, the United Nations Industrial 
Development  Organization  and  the  SIDS  Sustainable 
Energy Initiative, among others. The General Assembly 
acknowledged the Centre at its adoption in July of the 
biennial  resolution  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum” 
(resolution 71/316).
However,  we  continue  to  experience  the  negative 
effects  of  ocean  degradation  on  our  livelihoods  and 
culture,  owing  to  anthropogenic  activities  and  the 
devastating interrelated effects of climate change. We 
are already actively contributing to the implementation 
of SDG 14, and look forward to a strong collaboration 
with  all  interested  parties.  This  year  we  hosted  an 
international  whaling  meeting.  Through  a  far-sighted 
royal decree in 1978, His Majesty the late King Tupou 
IV had already banned whaling in Tongan waters four 
years  before  the  international  ban  on  whale  hunting 
came into effect. That was reaffirmed during the April 
2017 international conference on “Whales in a changing 
ocean” that we were honoured to host.
We may be a small island State, but all small island 
developing States are large-ocean States. For us and our 
people,  the  successful  implementation  of  Sustainable 
Development Goal 14 is critical to our pathway towards 
sustainable  development  and  its  interconnection  with 
other  goals,  such  as  those  related  to  food  security, 
water  and  sanitation,  health,  economic  growth,  and 
sustainable  production  and  consumption.  We  need 
strong  political  will  for  a  whole-of-Government 
2/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
approach 
to  mainstreaming  ocean-related  actions 
from international, regional, and national development 
plans  and  strategies,  in  order  to  ensure  the  inclusive 
participation and efforts of all stakeholders, including 
local communities and the private sector.
Tonga  joined  the  international  community  in 
endorsing 
the  call-for-action  outcome  document 
(resolution  71/312)  of  the  Ocean  Conference  in  June, 
which  includes  almost  1,400  voluntary  commitments 
by  stakeholders,  including  eight  from  Tonga.  It  is  a 
foundation  for  the  development  of  a  blue  economy  or 
“blue  charter”,  as  proposed  by  the  Commonwealth 
secretariat.  It  is  urgent  that  we  begin  working  to 
develop practical guidelines and toolkits to assist States 
in  delivering  on  all  the  targets  under  Goal  14  in  an 
integrated manner.
We  acknowledge  the  completion  of  the  work  of 
the  Preparatory  Committee  established  by  General 
Assembly  resolution  69/292  on 
the  development 
of  a  legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  Tonga 
maintains  its  support  for  the  commencement  of  an 
intergovernmental  conference  to  initiate  negotiations 
on a substantive text as soon as possible. We embrace 
the ongoing work of the International Seabed Authority 
in its administration and management of resources in 
that  area  in  accordance  with  the  common  heritage  of 
mankind.  Tonga  congratulates  the  Secretary-General 
of the Authority in his first year in office as he works 
with member States to develop important exploitation 
regulations, which must strike the appropriate balance 
between  conservation  of  the  natural  environment  in 
which mineral resources exist and its sustainable use. 
The consultations must be transparent and inclusive if 
such a balance is to be achieved.
Tonga continues its engagement as a member State 
of the Authority and will seek re-election to the Council 
at  the  Authority’s  twenty-fourth  session  in  2018.  A 
Tongan  national,  together  with  other  members  of  the 
Legal  and  Technical  Commission,  provides  expert 
views  for  facilitating  the  work  of  the  Commission  in 
developing  an  important  financial  mechanism  for 
ensuring the fair and equitable distribution of returns 
from seabed mining.
Tonga  reiterates  the  call  made  under  the  Samoa 
Pathway  for  genuine  and  durable  partnerships  that 
can  help  to  ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  A  very 
credible partnership mechanism between the 12 Pacific 
SIDS  and  Italy,  Austria,  Luxembourg  and  Spain  is 
exemplified through the Joint Committee. It has been 
ably  co-chaired  by  Italy  and  the  Chair  of  the  Pacific 
SIDS  every  year  since  2006.  Tonga  has  therefore 
benefited  thanks  to  projects  related  to  renewable 
energy, water, the strengthening of young Government 
officials’  capacities  and,  more  recently,  protected 
maritime areas.
We welcome the establishment of the India-United 
Nations Development Fund through the United Nations 
Office for South-South Cooperation, which launched a 
project  implemented  by  UNDP  for  establishing  early 
warning  systems  in  Tonga  and  other  Pacific  island 
countries. The system relies on the timely provision of 
disaster-risk  information,  guidance  on  how  to  act  on 
warnings and ensuring a constant state of preparedness. 
Sustainable  development  is  possible  where  there  is 
peace and security, and sustainable development is key 
to peace and security.
Finally, we urge all leaders to focus and reflect on 
the best ways to ensure that their power and legitimacy 
can benefit their own people and the entire world. We 
appeal for a speedy resolution to the current tensions on 
the Korean peninsula, which are affecting global peace 
and  security.  I  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on 
the  recent  establishment  of  the  High-level  Advisory 
Board for Mediation, designed to advise him on specific 
initiatives and related efforts around the world.
May Almighty God guide and bless the President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  all  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  and  their  respective  Governments 
and peoples.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the King of the Kingdom of 
Tonga for the statement he has just made.
His Majesty King Tupou VI, King of the Kingdom 
of  Tonga,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
17-29722
3/27
A/72/PV.17 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address  by  Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the Prime Minister of Solomon Islands.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare, 
Prime Minister of Solomon Islands, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Sogavare (Solomon Islands): I would like to add 
to those of others the congratulations of my delegation 
to Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election as President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
His  great  experience  and  wisdom  as  a  diplomat  will 
guide our work going forward in this session. I assure 
him that for its part, my delegation will try to lighten 
his  burden  by  providing  him  with  full  cooperation 
throughout the proceedings of the Assembly.
With  regard  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  what  can  I  say?  Not  only  was 
he  the  first  Fijian  to  hold  the  office  of  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  he  was  also  the  first  Pacific 
islander to assume that prestigious office. Among his 
many achievements was his championing of the 1,350 
voluntary commitments made at the Ocean Conference 
held here in June. I thank him for a marvellous job done.
Our world is going through difficult times. The year 
2017  has  been  dominated  by  intentional  provocations 
and  natural  disasters.  As  such,  the  choice  of  our 
theme — “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a 
decent life for all on a sustainable planet” — is not only 
appropriate, it is perfectly timed. On that note, on behalf 
of the people of Solomon Islands, I extend our heartfelt 
sympathies  to  those  affected  by  the  recent  natural 
disasters,  in  particular  Hurricanes  Harvey,  Irma  and 
Maria. We would like to express our sympathies to the 
families who lost loved ones in the recent earthquakes 
in  Mexico.  Whether  we  are  talking  about  tsunamis, 
cyclones,  flooding  or  earthquakes,  Solomon  Islands 
knows  well  the  pain  of  having  to  live  through  such 
ordeals. Our hearts and prayers are with the victims.
22/09/2017
I believe that the theme can effectively be summed 
up  in  three  simple  yet  powerful  words  —  peace, 
humanity  and  equality.  However,  I  am  afraid  that  the 
status  quo  in  the  world  today  does  not  reflect  them. 
According  to  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees, approximately 65.6 million 
people worldwide were forcibly displaced at the end of 
last year. Those statistics are the result of persecution, 
conflict,  violence  or  human  rights  violations  —  the 
consequences  of  human  actions.  Sadly,  the  majority 
of  the  displaced  are  women  and  children.  They  are 
the most vulnerable to the evil designs of their fellow 
human beings. They must therefore be protected. The 
protection of people is in the DNA of the Organization. 
My Government therefore reaffirms its support for the 
responsibility to protect. The international community 
must  continue  to  stand  firm  in  its  fight  to  prevent 
crimes against humanity.
I stand here with pride in saying that today we in 
the Pacific continue to enjoy the world’s most peaceful 
corner. Although we play a minor role in the geopolitics 
of the world, we are now once again caught up in the 
midst of a global power play. History shows that global 
events have often dictated those in the Pacific region. 
They were events beyond our control that were imposed 
on  us.  They  have  had  lasting  effects  on  our  peoples, 
many  of  them  negative.  From  bygone  world  wars 
to  nuclear  tests,  to  the  current  instances  of  military 
provocation, we continue to deal with the remnants of 
those foreign-imposed events.
For  us  in  Solomon  Islands,  it  was  only  a  month 
ago  that  we  celebrated  the  seventy-fifth  anniversary 
of  Guadalcanal,  a  significant  battle  of  the  Second 
World War. For many, that war ended in 1945, but for 
us its repercussions continue. Between 2011 and 2017, 
approximately  37,000  pieces  of  unexploded  ordnance, 
weighing  some  152,000  metric  tons,  were  destroyed. 
I  thank  the  Governments  of  Australia  and  the  United 
States of America for their assistance in that exercise, 
which continues today.
Today, we are also continually threatened by global 
power  posturing  attempting  once  again  to  dictate  our 
fate as a region. However, we refuse to remain silent. It 
is on that note that I would like to register our strongest 
condemnation of the actions by the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. We too would like to echo the global 
call  to  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to 
abide by the relevant Security Council resolutions. The 
recent  testing  of  ballistic  missiles  by  the  Democratic 
4/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  over  the  Pacific  Ocean  is 
an  insult  to  the  people  of  the  Pacific.  We  are  ocean 
people.  The  sea  is  our  sanctuary.  It  is  the  foundation 
of our heritage and where our people source their food 
and  income.  We  therefore  denounce  any  pollution  or 
contamination  of  the  ocean  that  our  Pacific  peoples 
depend on for their livelihoods.
As the Assembly is well aware, we in the Pacific 
supply  approximately  60  per  cent  of  the  world’s  tuna 
market, underscoring our region’s global significance. 
Maintaining  the  health  of  our  ocean  is  therefore  not 
merely  in  our  own  interests.  The  maintenance  of  our 
ocean,  given  its  importance  to  global  food  security, 
should be in all of our interests. In that regard, Solomon 
Islands reaffirms the principles enshrined in the United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the 
peaceful use of ocean spaces.
While  the  threat  of  nuclear  warfare  is  a  genuine 
concern to us all, for our small island developing States 
the  effects  of  climate  change  that  we  are  currently 
witnessing  at  an  alarming  rate  on  our  shores  present 
a  clear  and  present  danger.  The  concentration  of 
carbon dioxide in our oceans now stands at 400 parts 
per  million.  It  has  passed  the  safe  level  of  350  parts 
per  million  and  at  550  parts  per  million  will  soon 
begin  to  dissolve  our  corals.  For  Pacific  nations  like 
ours,  climate  change  continues  to  be  our  enemy.  We 
are  constantly  invaded  by  that  enemy,  every  day.  In 
Solomon Islands, we have lost six islands to the effects 
of  climate  change.  What  was  once  a  playground  for 
children  is  now  inundated  with  water.  For  many  of 
our  peoples,  talk  of  a  sustainable  world  is  becoming 
increasingly unattainable. We are in survival mode.
The  horrors  of  the  impact  of  a  nuclear  attack  are 
undeniable,  but  the  slow  onset  of  tragedy  caused  by 
the  adverse  impact  of  climate  change  is  just  as  cruel. 
If it has not happened yet, it will shortly. An unstable 
climate  and  people’s  subsequent  displacement  and 
relocation  can  exacerbate  some  of  the  core  drivers 
of  conflict,  such  as  migratory  pressures,  the  clash  of 
cultures  and  competition  for  resources.  Those  are 
threats to humankind’s very existence and could very 
well  morph  into  threats  to  global  peace  and  security. 
That is why the Pacific small island developing States 
have  been  requesting  that  the  Security  Council  also 
address the issue of climate change.
While  useful,  the  building  of  sea  walls  and 
wave-breakers to mitigate some of the effects of climate 
change  is  a  mere  Band-Aid  solution.  We  call  on  all 
major  greenhouse-gas  emitters  to  meet  their  national 
determined  contributions  for  reducing  emissions.  We 
strongly urge the United States of America to reconsider 
its position on the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. 
Let  us  all  stand  together  in  solidarity  to  face  the 
defining  challenges  of  our  time.  With  regard  to  the 
twenty-third session of the Conference of the Parties, 
Solomon Islands pledges its full support to Fiji as Chair. 
As a fellow Pacific island country, we congratulate Fiji 
on its upcoming assumption of the chairship and look 
forward to discussions on effective implementation of 
the Paris Agreement.
Regarding  peace  and  security,  Solomon  Islands 
has  contributed  a  contingent  of  five  police  officers 
who  have  just  completed  their  12-month  tour  of  duty 
in the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation 
in  Darfur,  in  our  first  humble  contribution  to  the 
maintenance  of  world  peace.  Another  eight  police 
officers, two of whom are women, are all set to go as soon 
as  they  secure  their  visas  for  the  Sudan.  The  African 
Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur was 
set up to protect civilians in areas where militia groups 
continue to be active and intercommunal violence still 
occurs. The efforts could be made more effective if the 
United  Nations  Framework  of  Analysis  for  Atrocity 
Crimes  could  be  integrated  into  predeployment  and 
in-theatre training for all peacekeepers.
The  mandate  of  the  Regional  Assistance  Mission 
to  the  Solomon  Islands  ended  on  30  June.  On  behalf 
of  the  people  of  Solomon  Islands,  I  would  like  to 
sincerely thank members of the Pacific Islands Forum 
for coming to our aid to save us from ourselves. At this 
juncture, I would like to pay tribute to those who made 
the ultimate sacrifice during the Mission and to thank 
their families for their loved ones’ services. I am also 
deeply grateful to Australia and New Zealand for their 
excellent  leadership  role  in  the  Assistance  Mission, 
which was premised on a regional security framework, 
the Biketawa Declaration. My Government is also very 
supportive of the Pacific islands leaders’ communiqué 
from  the  forty-eighth  Forum  meeting,  which  calls 
for  a  comprehensive  expansion  and  updating  of  the 
Declaration. We believe that a Biketawa-plus that takes 
into  consideration  the  security  challenges  the  region 
faces today, as well as our collective responses to them, 
will help to keeping the Pacific islands region peaceful.
Like  other  post-conflict  countries,  Solomon 
to  face  many  challenges. 
Islands  will  continue 
17-29722
5/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
initiatives 
Sustainable peace will require more than just effective 
policing or a functioning public service. It will require 
social  and  economic  development 
that 
address  the  underlying  causes  of  the  conflict.  In  that 
regard,  I  must  thank  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
for  facilitating  our  national  dialogue  on  peace  and 
sustainable  development.  The  communiqué  from  that 
dialogue shows an inclusive and clear consensus on our 
priorities for sustaining peace. I therefore look forward 
to  Solomon  Islands  being  formally  declared  eligible 
for  peacebuilding  support  from  the  Peacebuilding 
Recovery Facility.
I must also thank the Board of the Green Climate 
Fund for approving $86 million for the Tina River Hydro 
Project when it met in South Korea early this year. The 
project will create more than 200 jobs and offset more 
than 44,000 tons of carbon dioxide per annum in diesel 
emissions.  It  will  also  provide  renewable  energy,  at  a 
more  affordable  cost,  to  more  than  100,000  people  in 
and around our capital city of Honiara.
I  currently  have  an  issue  with  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  the  joint 
submission by Papua New Guinea, the Federated States 
of  Micronesia  and  Solomon  Islands  concerning  the 
Ontong Java plateau. Solomon Islands notes with serious 
concern that the Commission, in its deliberations, has 
overturned the understanding that we had reached with 
the  Sub-Commission  on  the  connection  of  Duff  and 
Anuta Islands to the continental margin of the Ontong 
Java  plateau.  The  Sub-Commission  and  our  joint 
delegation reached mutually acceptable conclusions that 
were the result of comprehensive interactions over two 
years. However, we were not given the opportunity to 
address the amendments proposed by the Commission, 
despite  their  serious  implications  for  our  submission, 
nor  were  we  given  the  reasons  for  the  amendments 
despite  our  repeated  requests.  We  therefore  have  no 
option but to consider making a revised submission.
A related issue is the negotiations on an implementing 
agreement  under  the  United  Nations  Law  of  the  Sea 
Convention  on 
the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  biological  diversity  in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdictions.  The  current  negotiations  undermine  the 
fundamental  principles  embodied  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  are  grossly  inadequate  when 
addressing  the  principle  of  adjacency,  the  integration 
of  traditional  knowledge,  and  transboundary  and 
cumulative  impacts  as  they  relate  to  small  island 
developing States. There must also be some recognition 
for a funding mechanism that can adequately support 
the implementation of the proposed instrument.
The Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations 
speaks  powerfully  of  our  mission  to  reaffirm  faith  in 
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of 
the human person, and in the equal rights of men and 
women and of nations large and small. This language 
clearly  articulates  the  principle  of  universality  for 
all  peoples  and  nations,  regardless  of  their  size 
or population.
However, as we in the Assembly speak of leaving 
no  one  behind,  we  are  at  the  same  time  shutting  the 
door  for  the  people  of  Taiwan  in  participating  in  this 
universal  process.  We  are  thereby  contradicting  our 
own  principles  by  leaving  23  million  people  behind. 
And  yet  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  requires  global  partnership 
and  the  joint  efforts  of  all  stakeholders  to  mobilize 
all  available  resources.  Taiwan  is  ready,  willing  and 
able to engage in and contribute to the wide range of 
substantive United Nations programmes for the welfare 
of humankind. If we are to focus on people and promote 
peace  and  sustainability,  let  us  give  Taiwan  and  its 
23 million people a chance.
Let us not contradict the principles that the United 
Nations was established to represent and allow the rules 
to  change  based  on  whose  best  interests  are  at  stake. 
Taiwan  has  been  actively  involved  in  United  Nations 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies.  Despite  its 
contributions  to  the  well-being  of  the  citizens  of  the 
world,  we  continue  to  ignore  Taiwan’s  right  to  self-
determination; as such, it is high time that the Assembly 
gave due recognition to Taiwan as a legitimate member 
of the family of nations.
Article 73 of our Charter also speaks powerfully on 
fundamental human rights. In the 1960 Declaration on 
the granting of independence to colonial countries and 
peoples, the General Assembly stated:
“The subjection of peoples to alien subjugation, 
domination  and  exploitation  constitutes  a  denial 
of  fundamental  human  rights,  is  contrary  to  the 
Charter of the United Nations and is an impediment 
to the promotion of world peace and cooperation” 
(resolution 1514 (XV), para. 1).
Thanks to that Article, the people of New Caledonia 
will hold a referendum in 2018 whereby they can finally 
decide, without fear or favour, on their political future. 
6/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
I  wish  them  all  the  best.  I  must  thank  and  commend 
the administering Power for working closely with the 
Special  Committee  on  Decolonization  (Committee 
of 24) on the issue of New Caledonia. I hope that the 
same level of cooperation will also be shown on French 
Polynesia and that a visit by the Committee of 24 will 
occur soon.
The  position  of  Solomon  Islands  on  the  issues 
I  have  mentioned  is  premised  on  principles  that  we 
have consistently upheld. In this connection, Solomon 
Islands condemns the consistent human rights violations 
in  West  Papua.  Our  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
which promote the notion of no one being left behind, 
will be empty promises unless we in the United Nations 
take  active  steps  to  address  the  plight  of  the  peoples 
of  West  Papua.  Indeed,  we  left  them  behind  some  50 
years ago when, as a family of nations, we noted their 
plight without adding much. Since then, the peoples of 
West Papua have never been allowed the proper act of 
self-determination guaranteed by the inalienable right 
to  self-determination,  as  expressed  in  United  Nations 
human rights covenants.
Only 
the 
international  action  of 
individual 
countries and the leading organizational bodies of the 
international system, especially the General Assembly, 
can pave the way for the recognition of a people whose 
right to self-determination has been denied for nearly 50 
years. Failing that, we as a family of nations will become 
complicit in perpetuating suffering and being blind to 
injustice,  missing  yet  another  golden  opportunity  to 
remain true to the idea of leaving no one behind. At the 
seventy-first session, a group of Pacific Island nations 
called for the General Assembly to address the human 
rights violations in West Papua. Today, I stand before 
the Assembly on behalf of my people and those of the 
Pacific region to reiterate that same call to address the 
plight of West Papuan women, children and men.
Our  people  are  watching,  West  Papuans  in  West 
Papua are watching, praying and hoping for a brighter 
future. They have come in numbers to express their hope 
for a better future. We as leaders have the responsibility 
to  leave  no  one  behind.  I  would  therefore  encourage 
Indonesia  to  engage  in  more  constructive  dialogue, 
including  with  West  Papua,  to  find  a  way  forward  in 
addressing the aspirations of the people of West Papua. 
I urge the United Nations to proactively engage in those 
dialogues as well.
Violence against women and girls is one of the most 
widespread violations of human rights worldwide, my 
country and region included. Violence against women is 
an obstacle to gender equality, economic opportunities 
and livelihoods. The final Pacific Regional Millennium 
Development Goals Tracking Report, published in 2015, 
highlighted the fact that violence against women was an 
impediment to achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals.  If  our  region  is  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  we  will  have  to  intensify  efforts 
and  increase  support  and  cooperation  to  end  violence 
against women and girls.
The Solomon Islands Family Protection Act of 2014 
was a national response to the urgent need to curtail the 
increasing  rate  of  domestic  violence.  It  was  aimed  at 
ensuring that homes in Solomon Islands, as important 
units  of  the  community,  are  peaceful  and  safe  for 
all  members  of  a  family.  The  Act  covers  any  type  of 
abuse  that  happens  in  the  home  between  perpetrators 
and victims of domestic violence. Yes, we have made 
big  strides  in  not  just  counting  women,  but  more 
importantly, in making women count.
As  a  small  island  developing  State  and  least 
developed  country  with  inherent  structural  capacity 
constraints,  we  greatly  rely  on  the  United  Nations 
system to support and augment our national efforts in 
implementing national development programmes. It is 
our hope that this expectation will be met by concrete 
and  measurable  deliverables  on  the  ground  by  our 
United Nations partners.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
reform agenda and applauds his vision for repositioning 
sustainable  development  at  the  heart  of  the  United 
Nations.  Its  guiding  framework,  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  with  its  pledge  to  leave 
no  one  behind,  is  indeed  our  boldest  agenda  for 
humankind.  For  my  country,  it  will  have  to  include 
fair  representation  in  the  recruitment  of  staff  to  the 
United  Nations  Secretariat.  Despite  having  only  one 
national  at  the  Secretariat,  we  have  not  been  invited 
to sit the young professionals’ exams for two years in 
a  row  now.  We  nevertheless  remain  steadfast  in  our 
support and encouragement of action for a strong and 
effective United Nations, and we stand ready to support 
the Secretary-General’s noble efforts to transform the 
Organization, including the Security Council.
The  United  Nations  is  still  the  town  hall  of  our 
global  village.  People  know  what  it  does  but  do  not 
17-29722
7/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
see  much  value  in  it.  It  is  inevitably  imperfect.  As 
the  Organization’s  second  Secretary-General,  Dag 
Hammarskjöld,  famously  said,  “The  United  Nations 
was  not  created  to  take  humanity  to  heaven,  but  to 
save  it  from  hell”.  The  Organization’s  imperfections, 
however,  only  mean  that  we  need  to  work  harder  to 
make it better. So let us do that.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Manasseh  Sogavare,  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address  by  Mr.  Zoran  Zaev,  President  of  the 
Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Government of 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr.  Zoran  Zaev,  President  of  the  Government  of 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zoran  Zaev,  President 
of the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Zaev  (Macedonia)  (spoke  in  Macedonian; 
English text provided by the delegation): It is an honour 
for me to address the Assembly and to share the Republic 
of Macedonia’s positions on the most important issues 
on the United Nations agenda. I firmly believe that we 
share the common goal of world peace. I also believe 
that we share the same commitments to a decent life for 
all in a sustainable environment and, further, that we 
will find common solutions to our common challenges. 
Peace, commitment to a decent life, and joint solutions 
are  the  values  that  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  has 
relied on in overcoming a deep political crisis that had 
repercussions throughout our region.
We  are  a  small,  diverse  countryy.  We  have 
managed to overcome difficult challenges because we 
have united around common values. That is why today 
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  is  again  free,  secure  and 
stable. It is a friend to all its neighbours and is firmly 
oriented  towards  full  integration  into  NATO  and  the 
European Union.
(spoke in English)
As  Head  of  the  Delegation  of  the  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  I  want  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  of  the  Slovak  Republic  on  his 
election to the prestigious position of President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I would 
also like to express our full support to Secretary-General 
Guterres. We wish him great success in carrying out his 
comprehensive, ambitious and much-needed agenda to 
transform and adapt the United Nations to enable it to 
meet its demanding tasks and our common challenges, 
both existing and emerging.
The  United  Nations  must  continue  to  do  more 
and better to meet those challenges and stand the test 
of  time.  We  must  be  vigilant  and  constant,  but  also 
seek  to  develop  innovative  and  adaptable  conflict 
prevention,  sustainable  development  and  management 
reform mechanisms, while building on the foundations 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other core documents.
The world is plagued by severe humanitarian crises, 
new and protracted old conflicts, the intensification of 
terrorist  attacks  and  violent  extremism,  human  rights 
abuses and increasing climate-change effects. Different 
in  scope  and  weight,  those  challenges  have  become 
more complex. They require a wide-ranging response. 
While we have been able to mitigate the consequences 
for some, others remain unabated. Just a few weeks ago, 
we witnessed devastating natural disasters in the Gulf 
of Mexico and South Asia. That is a harsh reminder that 
our  planet  is  changing,  and  we  all  have  an  obligation 
to  do  our  best  to  mitigate  and  hopefully  reverse  the 
consequences. We can progress if we are united.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights, 
democracy and the rule of law must remain at the core 
of our action. Despite the fact that the United Nations 
has  a  robust  human  rights  architecture,  the  current 
blatant  human  rights  violations,  widespread  impunity 
and lack of accountability around the globe remind us 
that there is much to be done.
Monstrous  terrorist  attacks  have  increased  in 
number. Our actions must focus on preventing violent 
extremism and radicalization, as they are major factors 
for  terrorist  recruitment.  The  establishment  of  the 
United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism, in which 
one of the priority areas is prevention, was a welcome 
step.  For  our  part,  we  are  also  working  on  a  national 
strategy  for  the  prevention  of  violent  extremism  and 
8/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
radicalization.  I  am  aware  that  there  are  differing 
approaches to those crucial issues, as we have divergent 
views  among  us.  However,  I  would  like  to  urge  the 
international community not to focus on its differences, 
but rather on its primary responsibility to act robustly 
for the common good.
The  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
and  their  means  of  delivery  continues  to  jeopardize 
global security. The implementation of Security Council 
resolution 1540 (2004) is key to minimizing the possible 
disastrous consequences for the generations to come. In 
that regard, let me underline that we are deeply alarmed 
by the continued unilateral actions of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, which has been conducting 
nuclear tests and missile launches despite the repeated 
calls  of  the  international  community  to  fully  comply 
with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  We 
believe  that  the  peaceful  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula is possible, and we therefore urge the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to immediately 
abandon its nuclear and missile programmes and to sign 
and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
Let me comment briefly on the main theme of the 
current session of the General Assembly, “Focusing on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a  sustainable  planet”.  States  must  remain  focused  on 
the implementation of the new sustainable development 
agenda that we agreed on at the seventieth anniversary 
of our Organization. That remarkable undertaking laid 
the foundations for the future development framework. 
That had implications for many other important areas 
of common concern.
Many  vital  issues  affecting  global  prosperity 
are related to the implementation of that agenda. It is 
therefore important to continue to encourage and build 
new avenues of cooperation and new partnerships among 
us. That is central to the integration of the economic, 
environmental and social dimensions of sustainability. 
Those  are  the  fundamentals  for  development  and  a 
hopeful future, as well as for our peace, stability and 
security. At the national level, our efforts to transform 
agreed  goals  into  practice  are  included  in  the  new 
United  Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework 
programme, the 2016-2020 United Nations Partnership 
for Sustainable Development.
Here I would like to mention to last year’s important 
summit  on  the  issue  of  large-scale  movements  of 
refugees  and  migrants.  That  is  a  global  phenomenon 
with  various  causes  and  diverse  implications.  The 
United  Nations  adopted  a  comprehensive  political 
declaration  and  pledged  to  intensify  international 
cooperation, in particular among countries of origin or 
nationality, transit and destination.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  supports  and  is 
participating in the ongoing consultation processes on 
the two compacts dealing with refugees and migrants. 
We expect an outcome that will address all aspects of 
these global phenomena. Let me remind everyone that 
in  the  past  couple  of  years,  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
migrants  have  transited  through  my  country  and  the 
region. Even though that presented complex challenges, 
we  managed  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to 
the  people  in  need.  Since  we  have  to  adapt  globally, 
we must also do our homework and act as responsible 
Governments  in  order  to  secure  and  provide  a  better 
future and prosperity for our people.
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia 
affirms its dedication to fundamental democratic values, 
good governance, the rule of law and respect for human 
rights. We overcame a deep political and institutional 
crisis  through  our  resolute  stand  in  defence  of  those 
fundamentals.  Our  understanding  is  that  democracy 
must  be  driven  by  civic  engagement  from  the  bottom 
up.  Societies  are  better  off  when  decision-making 
is  comprehensive,  inclusive  and  transparent.  Public 
policies must work for citizens’ well-being.
My Government has laid out an ambitious reform 
plan  with  short-,  medium-  and  long-term  measures. 
Our goal is to restore democracy, build professional and 
independent  institutions  and  improve  the  standard  of 
living for every citizen, and to expedite the integration 
of the Republic of Macedonia into the European Union 
and NATO.
From the depths of a political crisis we have emerged 
stronger, and we have been able to contribute to regional 
stability  and  cooperation.  Those  who  know  Balkan 
history know that our region has not always been seen 
in a positive light. I strongly believe that we have a new 
chance to make a change, not just in perceptions but in 
substance. Over the past few months, the Government 
of the Republic of Macedonia has strongly promoted a 
new approach to its neighbours. We have demonstrated 
the  capacity  to  overcome  open  issues.  We  have 
articulated our national interests and acted in pursuit of 
them. At the same time, we have been fully aware and 
respectful  of  the  national  interests  of  our  neighbours. 
17-29722
9/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
Our policy is based on solving issues through dialogue 
and  cooperation.  We  hope  that  that  approach  will 
inspire others and stimulate a new approach to bilateral 
relations in our region. As a positive step forward, let 
me  underscore  our  signing  of  a  bilateral  agreement 
on  friendship,  good-neighbourliness  and  cooperation 
with  Bulgaria.  That  represents  a  joint  success  for  the 
two countries.
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  represents 
the  twenty-fifth  year  of  our  participation  as  an 
independent State. Next year, we will mark a quarter-
century of our United Nations membership. However, 
that anniversary is also marked by the dispute over how 
my country should be referred to, which has unilateral 
consequences on our development and perspectives.
The  Interim  Accord  of  1995  laid  the  foundations 
for a normalization of relations between Macedonia and 
Greece. At present, the two countries are implementing 
confidence-building  measures,  and  that  is  a  very 
positive  development.  We  have  a  fresh  impetus  to 
overcome  the  long-standing  bilateral  dispute.  I  would 
say that we have both made certain mistakes at various 
times, but the main goal now is to resolve the issue and 
close it.
I firmly believe that we must seize the momentum, 
conduct discussions in good faith and resolve the issue 
for our shared future. We greatly value the continuing 
efforts of the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Matthew  Nimetz,  and  the  good  offices  that  he 
provides  to  that  end.  I  firmly  believe  that  there  is  a 
way to overcome the problem that Greece has with our 
constitutional name. For a change, let us try to approach 
it from a positive point of view.
Maintaining  good  neighbourly  and 
friendly 
relations  is  a  two-way  street.  We  are  committed  to 
doing our job and expect the same of our neighbours. 
That  message  has  already  been  clearly  sent  to  our 
friends and partners. I would like to reaffirm it here, 
from the rostrum, where all of us have been recalling 
the purposes and principals of the Charter of the United 
Nations. The world can be a very noisy place, but the 
most important things can be very quiet. I believe that 
if we listen to our peoples, we can hear the world.
that 
the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  remains  a  staunch  supporter 
of  multilateralism.  We  will  continue  to  work  with 
the  United  Nations  and  all  Member  States  on  jointly 
reinforcing world peace and security, promoting human 
In  conclusion,  I  want 
to  underline 
rights,  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and dealing with all the other issues that are crucial for 
the people we represent.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Government  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Zoran  Zaev,  President  of  the  Government  of 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Hailemariam  Desalegn,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Ethiopia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, 
Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Ethiopia, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Desalegn  (Ethiopia):  I  would  like  to  join 
other  delegations  in  congratulating  the  President  on 
his  election  to  preside  over  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  and  I  wish 
to  assure  him  of  the  support  and  cooperation  of  my 
delegation  in  the  discharge  of  his  responsibilities 
through the course of the session. Let me also take this 
opportunity to express appreciation to his predecessor, 
who  effectively  guided  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly at its previous session.
We  welcome  the  appointment  of  Mr.  António 
Guterres as the new Secretary-General and support his 
call  for  a  surge  in  diplomacy  for  peace  in  addressing 
the many crisis situations that the world is facing today. 
Let me stress here we are behind the Secretary-General 
in  his  efforts  to  reform  the  Organization  in  the  three 
interrelated areas of development, peace and security, 
and management.
It  has  been  indeed  a  great  pleasure  and  honour 
for  Ethiopia  to  preside  over  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council  during  this  important  month,  when  world 
leaders gather in New York for the new session of the 
10/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
General  Assembly  to  discuss  issues  of  global  peace, 
security  and  development.  We  would  like  to  express 
our  gratitude  to  all  the  delegations  that  participated 
in  the  high-level  open  debate  of  the  Security  Council 
on Wednesday, 20 September, on the reform of United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  (see  S/PV.8051).  As 
a leading troop-contributing country, Ethiopia attaches 
great  importance  to  strengthening  the  role  of  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  in  addressing  challenges  to 
international peace and security.
In that regard, we welcome the unanimous adoption 
of  Security  Council  resolution  2378  (2017),  which  we 
introduced on Wednesday, and we thank all delegations 
that  sponsored  the  resolution,  which  reaffirms  the 
central role of United Nations peacekeeping as one of 
the  most  effective  tools  available  to  the  world  in  the 
promotion  and  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security.
That the world is facing unprecedented challenges 
to its peace and prosperity has been all too apparent for 
quite some time now. Geopolitical tensions reminiscent 
of  the  Cold  War  are  increasing.  The  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  is  posing  a  real  threat 
to  global  peace  and  security.  Terrorism  and  violent 
extremism continue to wreak havoc across various parts 
of the world. Global income inequality is no longer just 
a  development  challenge;  it  is  also  a  security  threat. 
Climate  change  is  not  a  fiction  but  real,  and  we  are 
witnessing its devastating consequences for humankind 
and the planet. Countries such as my own continue to 
face that horrendous challenge to their development.
if 
Three  major  peace  and  security  reviews  were 
conducted  only  two  years  ago,  providing  valuable 
recommendations,  which, 
implemented,  could 
help  the  United  Nations  keep  pace  with  the  changing 
global  security  dynamics  and  respond  effectively  to 
new and emerging peace and security challenges in a 
comprehensive,  systematic  and  coordinated  manner. 
The  clear  conclusion  of  the  three  major  reviews  was 
that the primary United Nations approach to resolving 
conflicts  should  be  a  political  one.  Indeed,  the  many 
conflict and crisis situations around the world cannot 
be  resolved  other  than  through  political  means.  That 
holds true not only for the crisis in South Sudan, close to 
my country, but also for the conflicts that are raging in 
the Middle East, including in Syria and Yemen, as well 
as the dangerous situation on the Korean peninsula. It 
is  therefore  only  by  reaffirming  our  commitments  to 
the letter and spirit of Chapter VI of the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  on  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes, 
that we can effectively respond to the global peace and 
security challenges we are facing today.
However, 
that 
is  obviously  easier  said 
than 
done.  That  is  because  without  the  political  will  and 
commitment  of  the  conflicting  parties  to  finding  a 
political  solution  through  dialogue  and  negotiation, 
peace  is  bound  to  elude  us.  A  common  purpose  and 
resolve  on  the  part  of  all  external  actors  involved  in 
the search for a political solution to conflict and crisis 
situations are also absolutely vital. What current global 
security requires is a stronger and more effective global 
and  regional  partnership  in  the  service  of  conflict 
prevention and peace. What we have repeatedly seen is 
that in the absence of that partnership, which must be 
underpinned by the principles of complementarity and 
coherence,  no  meaningful  progress  can  be  achieved. 
The United Nations should be able to play a leading role 
in  forging  those  kinds  of  partnerships  and  in  sharing 
the burden in accordance with the Charter.
The 
links  connecting  peace, 
security  and 
development have long been recognized, and that was 
also  the  other  clear  key  message  emanating  from  the 
three major peace and security reviews. More peaceful 
and 
inclusive  societies  generate  an  environment 
conducive to sustainable development, and sustainable 
peace is both an enabler and an outcome of sustainable 
development.  The  year  2015  was  indeed  seminal  in 
that regard. The commitment that we made in this Hall 
to  the  transformative  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  to  inclusiveness,  leaving  no  one 
behind, was the result of our shared conviction that our 
fates and futures are linked and that poverty is a shared 
challenge. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
were  further  reinforced  by  the  adoption  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  which  entered  into 
force last November, thereby strengthening the global 
response to the threats posed by that phenomenon.
Today, however, it is no longer the time to celebrate 
those achievements; we need rather to reflect where we 
are in terms of their implementation. Though the SDGs 
were endorsed by all with much optimism, the current 
state  of  affairs  is  far  from  reassuring.  The  global 
situation  since  their  adoption  has  not  been  conducive 
to ensuring their reasonably effective implementation. 
That is a major disappointment for all those who have 
been  hoping  to  see  renewed  global  partnership  in  the 
spirit of the 2030 Agenda.
17-29722
11/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
For our part, we have fully embraced and begun to 
record encouraging initial results in implementing the 
2030 Agenda. We have continued to invest in our people 
so as to improve their well-being. In order to achieve 
structural  transformation  and  diversify  our  economy, 
the Government is expanding our manufacturing sector 
and  infrastructure  facilities,  which  have  continued  to 
attract  an  increasing  amount  of  domestic  and  foreign 
investments. In order to finance our ambitious national 
projects,  we  are  mobilizing  domestic  resources  while 
maximizing the positive impacts of foreign assistance. 
By  implementing  integrated,  pro-poor  policies,  we 
have been reducing poverty and enhancing the quality 
of life, and we have sustained our rapid and inclusive 
economic growth.
Ethiopia  is  therefore  projected  to  be  the  fastest 
growing economy in the world by the end of 2017. That 
should,  of  course,  not  be  a  source  of  complacency; 
it  should  rather  drive  us  further  to  redouble  our 
determination  and  endeavours  to  accelerate  the  full 
implementation  of  our  current  national  development 
policy,  which  integrates  the  SDGs,  and  we  will 
remain  fully  committed  to  realizing  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  to  responding  to  the  legitimate 
development demands of our people and to addressing 
our  multifaceted  development  challenges.  That  is  not 
easy,  nor  are  our  challenges  uncomplicated,  most 
particularly those related to natural phenomena.
We  in  Ethiopia,  like  many  other  countries,  are 
dealing  almost  every  day  with  the  adverse  effects 
of  climate  change.  Now  is  not  the  time,  therefore,  to 
doubt  their  devastating  impact,  while  millions  of  our 
fellow  humans  are  losing  their  lives  and  their  hard-
won  development  achievements.  That  is  happening 
all  over  the  world.  It  is  high  time  to  act  urgently  and 
decisively  to  combat  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate 
change,  particularly  its  disproportionately  bad  effect 
on  the  most  vulnerable  countries,  which,  as  has  been 
repeatedly  pointed  out,  bear  almost  no  responsibility 
for causing climate change.
Climate  change,  not  just  poverty,  is  our  major 
challenge.  The  current  climate-induced  drought  is 
affecting millions of people. For the third consecutive 
year, after successfully dealing with the El Niño-induced 
drought  in  2015,  Ethiopia  is  confronting  the  adverse 
effects  of  climate  change.  That  is  why  I  said  earlier 
that  climate  change  is  real  and  poses  a  clear  danger 
for  humankind,  because  it  undermines  development 
gains. We are doing everything that we can to mitigate 
its  negative  effects,  with  the  continuing  and  much 
appreciated  support  of  our  bilateral  and  multilateral 
partners.  While  we  are  committed  to  addressing  our 
current humanitarian emergency, we will also continue 
to implement our national strategy to build a green and 
resilient economy.
Countries such as Ethiopia that are fully committed 
to implementing the Sustainable Development Agenda 
require  an  international  environment  that  can  help 
them  succeed  in  their  fight  against  poverty.  Ending 
poverty,  achieving  prosperity  for  all  and  preserving 
our planet are attainable goals. We know that we have 
the  resources  and  the  capabilities  to  achieve  a  world 
free  from  poverty.  We  have  begun  implementing  the 
SDGs, albeit unevenly, but time is of the essence. We 
must  accelerate  the  process  if  we  are  to  leave  no  one 
behind. That has enormous meaning for peace, security 
and prosperity as well. Poverty and economies that fail 
to  produce  employment  opportunities  are  not  fertile 
ground for peace to grow in and be nurtured.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Hailemariam Desalegn, Prime Minister of the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Ethiopia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  Government of  the 
Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government
of  the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit, 
Head  of  Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
Spanish text provided by the delegation): I would like 
to begin by congratulating the President, Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák, on his choice of theme for the seventy-second 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  link  between 
peace and a dignified life is, without a doubt, one of the 
key issues of our time — as is sustainable development, 
12/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
which  has  become  the  principal  challenge  facing  the 
international  community.  The  priorities  set  forth  by 
the  President  and  the  theme  for  the  current  session 
highlight the close link between peace, a dignified life 
and a sustainable planet.
The  choice  of  those  priorities  and  theme  are  in 
keeping with what we have been building together over 
the years, as reflected in the aims of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  we  agreed  on 
two years ago, and are also based on the actions of the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  António  Guterres,  during  his 
first nine months at the helm of the United Nations.
Next year will mark 70 years since the publication 
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the first 
major joint success of the United Nations. Throughout 
those  seven  decades,  we  have  learned  that  the  goals 
shared  by  all  of  humankind  are  interrelated.  The 
United  Nations  was  founded  with  the  fundamental 
aim of preventing conflicts and ensuring peace. Over 
the centuries, all our parliaments and assemblies have 
been  established  on  the  basis  of  that  goal,  namely,  to 
peacefully  resolve  conflicts  and  make  decisions  that 
affect us all together. This parliament, an assembly of 
all the countries of the world, was also founded on that 
very desire.
Soon  afterwards, 
the  original  objective  of 
maintaining  peace  and  security  was  joined  by  those 
of  promoting  human  rights  and,  subsequently,  by  the 
economic and social development of nations and their 
citizens.  That  in  itself  was  because  the  international 
community  became  aware  of  the  strong  relationship 
between development opportunities and the prevention 
of conflict. A fairer world with fewer inequalities, with 
opportunities  for  all  and  respect  for  our  differences, 
will tend to be a safer and more peaceful world.
It was several decades ago that the United Nations 
turned  its  focus  towards  another  major  objective, 
namely, sustainability, caring for the environment and, 
more specifically, the fight against climate change. In 
June  we  marked  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the 
signing of the United Nations Framework Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1992.  Its 
four  objectives  —  peace,  human  rights,  development 
and  sustainability  —  continue  to  be  priorities.  All 
four  are  tightly  interconnected,  and  all  four  require  a 
multilateral approach, since no country, no matter how 
powerful, can guarantee peace and security alone.
No  country  or  group  of  countries  can  implement 
development  policies  alone,  and  no  country  can  fight 
climate  change  alone.  We  must  therefore  continue  to 
uphold  inclusive  multilateralism.  It  is  not  enough  to 
simply  work  together  to  resolve  issues  that  affect  us 
all  —  the  solutions  we  agree  on  should  leave  no  one 
behind. They must be fair and inclusive, and we must 
make sure that they benefit us all.
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  Andorra  has  become  a 
member of the Economic and Social Council for 2017 
to  2019,  because  it  is  in  that  Council  that  inclusive 
multilateralism is truly significant. The Economic and 
Social  Council  is  the  clearest  manifestation  that  the 
United  Nations  not  only  strives  to  be  an  assembly  of 
the  world’s  countries  but  also  wants  to  have  a  direct 
impact on the lives of citizens all over the world. If, as 
the Secretary-General stated, development is the key to 
conflict prevention, the Economic and Social Council 
is a key tool for that.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
also  plays  a  key  role.  For  that  reason,  Andorra  will 
participate  in  the  next  round  of  voluntary  national 
reviews of the Sustainable Development Goals, which 
will evaluate our implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
and accelerate its effective application.
Everyone  here  knows  that  we  live  in  a  world  of 
constant  assessment.  Rating  agencies  measure  the 
solvency of our countries, the World Trade Organization 
analyses  the  level  of  openness  and  interdependence 
of  our  economies  and  the  Organization  of  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  ensures  transparency 
and  healthy  fiscal  competition  between  States.  Never 
before have we experienced the evaluative capacity of 
various international agencies and bodies so intensely, 
especially in the economic and financial sphere.
That  is  a  positive  thing,  but  it  will  not  be  if  we 
limit  those  evaluations  to  the  economic  and  financial 
sphere.  We  must  be  equally  demanding  in  the  social 
sphere  —  although  economic  progress  does  indeed 
play a very important role in constructing a fairer and 
safer world. The promotion of a decent life and social 
development are also essential elements. That is what the 
voluntary national reviews are — a means of measuring 
all we are doing to attain the Sustainable Development 
Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda.  Andorra  will  submit  its 
voluntary report next July. The various ministries and 
departments  of  the  Andorran  Government  have,  in 
fact, been working for some time to align our internal 
17-29722
13/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
policies  with  the  2030  Agenda  and  ensure  that  our 
internal  actions  comply  with  each  of  the  17  Goals  to 
which we all committed on 25 September 2015.
From  a  social  perspective,  the  work  that  Andorra 
has  done  over  the  past  year  to  develop  a  white  paper 
on equality as a basis for cross-cutting actions to foster 
inclusion in both the public and the private sectors is a 
clear example. When I say that Andorra is developing 
this  white  paper,  I  mean  the  country  as  a  whole,  not 
just  the  Government.  Of  course,  the  Government  and 
Parliament must act as initiators and leaders, but they do 
so with the full participation of civil society. The white 
paper will lead to a law on equality, which should be 
the key tool in our effort to eradicate the discrimination 
that still persists in our society.
All  that  work  is  clearly  aligned  with  Goal  5  on 
gender  equality  and  Goal  10  on  reducing  inequalities 
within and among countries. Inclusive multilateralism, 
which I mentioned a few moments ago, should not only 
prevail in the General Assembly but should also guide 
our internal policies. At the national level, we need to 
involve the largest possible number of actors and find 
solutions that work for everyone.
There are also other examples of Andorra’s efforts 
in  the  context  of  domestic  policy,  such  as  in  the  area 
of  education,  which  is  directly  linked  to  Goal  4  of 
the  2030  Agenda.  In  that  regard,  we  are  working  to 
introduce  competency-based  education;  to  continue 
and  improve  the  coexistence  of  our  three  educational 
systems — in Spanish, French and Andorran — all of 
which are public, free of charge and open to all; and to 
incorporate human rights and democratic values in our 
curriculums  for  children  and  young  people.  All  three 
of  those  efforts  are  also  in  line  with  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, and in some instances are inspired 
by  them.  A  good  example  of  our  commitment  to 
international educational standards is the Government’s 
recent  adoption  of  the  UNESCO  Convention  against 
Discrimination 
international 
instrument for promoting equal opportunity.
in  Education,  a  key 
While  the  relationship  between  peace,  human 
rights, security and inclusive development is clear and 
undeniable, it is also increasingly obvious that combating 
climate change is a crucial pillar of that edifice. That is 
because the destruction of ecosystems and the natural 
disasters linked to climate change directly and cruelly 
affect  the  most  vulnerable  people;  because  a  scarcity 
of  natural  resources  is  at  the  heart  of  many  current 
conflicts;  because  the  new  paradigm  of  sustainability 
drastically  changes  our  previous  notion  of  economic 
and social development; and because — and pardon me 
for mentioning the obvious — if we destroy the planet, 
there will be no sense in talking about peace, security 
or development. Fighting climate change will therefore 
continue to take up much of the debate now and in the 
future on international actions and initiatives. That is 
why seven of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals are 
directly related to environmental issues. It is key that 
much of the our Governments’ domestic efforts should 
address that issue.
In  recent  times,  Andorra  has  become  very  aware 
of  the  relevance  of  fighting  climate  change,  and  we 
have  demonstrated  that  through  actions.  Thanks  to 
an  ambitious  aid  programme,  Andorra  has  one  of  the 
world’s most significant growth rates per inhabitant for 
electric automobiles and numbers of points for charging 
electric  vehicles.  Given  that  heating  buildings  is  one 
of  our  biggest  sources  of  greenhouse-gas  emissions, 
we are investing substantially in network projects that 
centralize  heat  generation,  making  it  more  efficient 
and less polluting. We are also implementing a policy 
of incentives and obligations to promote citizens’ own 
production of renewable solar and geothermal energy. 
Lastly, we are drafting a law on energy transition that 
will make all such policies mandatory.
As most members of the international community 
stated  in  December  2015,  we  do  not  want  this  effort 
to  remain  merely  pious  words  or  a  catalogue  of  good 
intentions that will not be translated into concrete action. 
We therefore welcome the initiative of Mr. Emmanuel 
Macron, the President of our partner country, France, to 
promote a global compact for the environment, which 
will collect and harmonize all of the agreements signed 
and implemented since the United Nations Conference 
on  Environment  and  Development  in  Rio  de  Janeiro 
in  1992  through  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change — because it is important that all global action 
to protect the environment and fight climate change be 
reflected  in  specific  rights  and  obligations  for  States 
and  individuals.  Andorra  heartily  welcomes  the  work 
that has been done so far for the global compact, which 
includes, as a substantive right for individuals, the right 
to  a  sound  and  healthy  environment.  Here,  our  1993 
Constitution was a bellwether, as it includes the right to 
a clean environment as a citizens’ right and, therefore, 
a duty for the public authorities.
14/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
The  various 
international  conventions  aimed 
at  protecting  the  environment  must  be  reflected  in 
specific  actions  that  will  have  tangible  effects  for 
people, because the negative effects of climate change 
and global warming have been apparent for some time 
and  are  having  a  very  negative  effect  on  the  planet 
and  its  inhabitants.  I  have  in  mind  especially  the 
concerns we have about the Pacific islands, which are 
threatened by a rise in sea levels, the fragile ecosystems 
of  mountainous  countries  such  as  Andorra,  and  the 
extraordinary, devastating force of the hurricanes that 
have been hitting the Caribbean region recently.
More 
than  ever  before,  we  need 
inclusive 
multilateralism that will leave no one behind. But we 
also  need  effective  multilateralism  that  works,  offers 
concrete results and responds to people’s problems. Work 
to that end begins here at United Nations Headquarters, 
which must adjust the Organization to the needs of both 
countries  and  their  citizens.  The  first  mission  of  any 
organization, from private companies to Governments, 
is  an  internal  one  —  ensuring  that  its  members  and 
structures are aligned with its final objectives and that 
they are well prepared to respond to various needs. We 
therefore  welcome  the  fact  that  one  of  the  first  steps 
taken by Secretary-General Guterres was on his project 
to reform the United Nations development system.
If  we  really  believe  that  peace,  human  rights, 
development and sustainability are closely interrelated, 
we  would  logically  expect  the  various  bodies  and 
committees dealing with such issues to work together in 
a coordinated manner, just as it is logical and necessary 
for  specific  problems  to  be  managed  by  specific 
departments.  Proof  of  the  fact  that  the  Secretary-
General is doing a good job is his decision to establish 
a  United  Nations  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  headed 
by an Under-Secretary-General.
The  importance  of  fighting  terrorism  has  been 
trumpeted everywhere in recent years. We Andorrans 
have seen our European neighbours suffer directly from 
the  consequences  of  such  irrational  hatred.  In  Spain 
last month, Barcelona and Cambrils, two Catalan towns 
that are close to Andorra, suffered from the problem.
also  played  a  significant  role.  Today,  with  the  global 
threat  of  terrorism,  while  diplomacy  between  States 
continues  to  be  very  important  in  settling  issues  of 
peace  and  security,  they  also  require  concrete  action 
for combating terrorism and eradicating its root causes. 
The Secretary-General can therefore count on Andorra’s 
support for his establishment of the Office of Counter-
Terrorism  and  other  measures  designed  to  improve 
the  functioning  of  the  Organization  and  provide  the 
effective answers that citizens of the world expect from 
all of us.
The  question  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  United 
Nations is important not only for the Secretary-General 
but  also  clearly  for  all  of  us  States  Members  of  the 
Organization. It is all of us who must work to ensure 
that global agreements, starting with the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  are  truly  binding,  to  assess  with 
transparency various countries’ compliance with those 
agreements and to avoid the possibility that the United 
Nations and the international community could become 
paralysed or inactive in the face of the great challenges 
and major crises of our times.
It is for those reasons that Andorra has supported, 
and will continue to support, the Rome Statute and the 
Kampala Amendments, which make it possible for the 
International Criminal Court to exercise its jurisdiction 
in  cases  of  crimes  of  aggression  that  clearly  violate 
the Charter of the United Nations. Allowing the Court 
to act ex officio in the most serious cases without the 
need  for  referrals  by  the  Security  Council  would  be 
a  meaningful  step  forward  for  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level.
For  the  same  reason,  Andorra  will  continue  to 
support initiatives that seek to limit the right of the veto 
for the permanent members of the Security Council in 
cases  of  genocide  or  serious  human  rights  violations. 
In  our  opinion,  the  political  declaration  adopted  two 
years  ago  on  the  initiative  of  the  French  Republic 
and  the  United  Mexican  States,  which  provides  for 
the  suspension  of  the  veto  in  cases  involving  mass 
atrocities, is a good course of action to follow.
Peace and security have more complex dimensions 
today than they did 70 years ago. In the mid-twentieth 
century, after two world wars, the maintenance of peace 
and  security  could  be  addressed  and  resolved  here  in 
the  Assembly  through  frank  dialogue  and  effective 
cooperation and among countries. Bilateral diplomacy 
No  one  should  be  surprised  by  the  fact  that 
Andorrans  are  faithful  defenders  of  the  multilateral 
order.  Like  other  small  countries,  we  firmly  believe 
that the major challenges of our time must be addressed 
globally,  and  that  what  the  various  countries  of  the 
world  can  do  for  themselves  amounts  to  very  little 
17-29722
15/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
without global and concerted action. That is why much 
of our foreign policy is focused on multilateral forums, 
as  we  showed  four  years  ago  during  the  Andorran 
presidency  of  the  Council  of  Europe.  Evidence  for 
that will also be seen next month, when Andorra hosts 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  and  from  our 
candidacy  to  organize  the  Ibero-American  Summit 
in 2020.
The  Ibero-American  community  is  in  mourning 
today for the victims of the earthquake that took place in 
Mexico last Tuesday. The Government and the Mexican 
people know that they can count on the sympathy and 
solidarity of the Principality of Andorra.
As  I  have  said,  our  dedication  to  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  is  clear  and 
firm. Secretary-General António Guterres can rely on 
Andorra to help build a sustainable, safe and fair world 
that involves everyone, with no one left behind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of Government of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Hassan  Ali  Khayre,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Republic of Somalia.
Mr.  Hassan  Ali  Khayre,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan  Ali  Khayre, 
Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Somalia, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Khayre (Somalia): It is an honour to address 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
I  bring  warm  greetings  and  good  wishes  from  our 
President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Abdullahi 
Mohamed Farmajo, and the entire Government and the 
people of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Allow me first to congratulate the President of the 
General Assembly on his assumption of his post and his 
capable work in steering this organ towards a successful 
session.  Yesterday  we  observed  the  International  Day 
of Peace, a day that calls for togetherness and solidarity 
with  those  who  have  been  forced  to  flee  their  homes 
and  those  who  leave  home  to  seek  a  better  life.  The 
theme of this year’s General Assembly session speaks 
of  peace  and  a  decent  life  on  a  sustainable  planet. 
The  similarity  in  focus  goes  beyond  coincidence  to 
acknowledge  that  the  pursuit  of  peace,  a  decent  life, 
respect,  safety  and  dignity  is  a  global  need.  Yet  it  is 
elusive for hundreds of millions of people in the world 
today.  From  Syria  to  the  Central  African  Republic, 
from  the  Rohingya  people  of  Myanmar  to  the  people 
of  Libya,  the  number  of  protracted  and  new  conflicts 
remains unacceptably high.
The  Somali  people  have  for  many  years  been  the 
victims  of  war,  famine  and  poverty,  which  has  seen 
some of them displaced internally, while others made 
the  perilous  journey  abroad.  We  are  therefore  all  too 
familiar  with  the  need  for  others  to  open  their  doors 
to  distraught  and  disillusioned  people  who,  just  like 
us, are seeking a safe and dignified life. I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  those  who,  even 
in challenging times, continue to uphold that spirit of 
oneness, sharing and caring.
Somalia is rising, and we are determined to stay the 
course. Our aim is to contribute positively to the progress 
of  our  region,  our  continent  and  the  world.  Despite 
the enormous challenges, we are, among other things, 
improving security, re-establishing law and order and 
conducting the necessary political and socioeconomic 
reforms.  The  progress  we  have  achieved  so  far  is  the 
result of our people’s embrace of a new dawn and our 
steadfast partners’ willingness to continue supporting 
us on our journey towards peace and prosperity.
We  will  continue 
to  formulate  measures 
to 
strengthen  Somalia’s  progress,  including  in  revenue 
generation.  However,  we  are  dealing  with  some 
serious  challenges  beyond  the  control  of  the  Somali 
Government.  Debt  relief  would  have  the  effect  of 
unlocking  concessional  financing,  attracting  foreign 
investment and providing an opportunity that is critical 
to  sustaining  our  reform  efforts,  and  consequently 
reinvigorating  our  economy.  We  are  already  working 
with  international  financial  institutions  towards  that 
objective and, through this forum, seek the support of 
the international community.
16/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
Terrorism remains one of our pressing challenges. 
Its  repercussions  are  felt  around  the  globe.  Our  unity 
in  addressing  this  scourge,  both  collectively  and 
sustainably,  is  therefore  critical.  No  effort  should 
be  spared  to  neutralize  the  growth  and  influence  of 
international terrorist organizations such as the Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  and  Al-Qaida,  which,  as 
we  know,  are  key  influencers  of  localized  terrorism. 
Efforts  to  step  up  military  interventions  against  such 
groups should be redoubled. We in Somalia have made 
significant strides that have weakened the capability of 
Al-Shabaab.
In that regard, I would like to thank those participating 
in  the  African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  (AMISOM) 
for  their  sacrifice,  unfailing  support,  dedication  and 
solidarity in the fight against Al-Shabaab. In order to 
ensure that such gains are sustainable, we are focused 
on strengthening the military capacity of our national 
security  forces.  However,  the  arms  embargo  imposed 
on  Somalia  severely  limits  our  ability  to  achieve  that 
objective.  The  Federal  Government  of  Somalia  will 
continue to work with the Security Council and relevant 
actors on our road map to get it lifted.
Poverty  and  a  lack  of  education  and  livelihood 
opportunities  continue  to  contribute  to  the  growth  of 
violent  extremism.  Across  the  world,  disillusioned 
young  people  are  at  a  heightened  risk  of  exploitation 
by  criminal  networks,  including  terrorists.  The  need 
to  invest  in  education,  skill-building  and  livelihood 
opportunities for our youth is urgent. Addressing those 
key strategic elements in order to counter terrorism is 
an enormous task that requires a holistic approach and 
resources to match. We continue to call on friends of 
Somalia to help us in such an important undertaking.
We cannot talk about a sustainable planet without 
demonstrating  a  commitment  to  making  the  world 
livable for ourselves and future generations. Somalia is 
one of the countries that have been ravaged by a vicious 
cycle  of  man-made  and  natural  disasters  directly 
created  by  environmental  degradation.  Scarce  rains 
lead  to  crop  failure  and  the  death  of  livestock,  which 
subsequently  lead  to  drought  and  famine.  Currently, 
the  humanitarian  situation  of  millions  of  Somalis 
remains  fragile,  as  the  bite  of  the  current  drought, 
which still threatens to develop into famine, continues. 
Our  national  development  plan  outlines  a  clear  and 
realistic  road  map  towards  breaking  that  vicious 
cycle.  However,  Somalia  and  many  other  countries 
that  are  on  the  receiving  end  of  climate  change  have 
been unable to come up with the resources required to 
tackle  this  ever-growing  problem.  In  that  regard,  we 
urge all Member States to continue improving the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change, which has the potential 
to  mitigate  the  issue’s  effects.  Similarly,  developing 
countries  like  Somalia  need  investment  in  long-term 
initiatives, including infrastructure development, water 
conservation, innovative food and livestock production 
and the creation of livelihood opportunities.
We  must  get  better  at  streamlining  global 
development  and  aid  structures,  especially  for  fragile 
States.  We  must  revisit  the  prevailing  paradigms 
and  take  bold  and  innovative  steps  to  improve  that 
architecture. The New Deal for Engagement in Fragile 
States, adopted in South Korea in 2011, was certainly 
a great step in that direction. Somalia fully embraced 
the  New  Deal.  Yet  even  with  all  of  its  strengths,  the 
New Deal needs improvement. That said, the principles 
of  mutual  accountability  that  are  embedded  in  the 
framework  are  exactly  what  fragile  countries  like 
Somalia need. It often happens that pledges are made, 
only  to  be  later  neglected.  That  should  not  be  the 
case, because fragile countries rely on such support to 
rebuild their States. Conversely, development partners 
are  often  frustrated  with  fragile  countries’  weak 
transparency  and  accountability 
institutions.  That 
is  a  legitimate  concern.  As  fragile  nations,  we  must 
do  better  by  tackling  corruption  and  plugging  leaks. 
Somalia recently took bold steps to address corruption. 
Our anti-corruption bill, which is critical for putting in 
place measures for good governance and accountability, 
has  been  approved  by  my  Cabinet  and  introduced 
for  enactment  by  Parliament.  The  leadership  of  my 
country  has  also  reiterated  its  zero-tolerance  policy 
on corruption.
Also related to funding, we must find predictable 
financing 
for  non-United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions.  That  is  particularly  true  for  AMISOM. 
AMISOM has registered tremendous success for more 
than a decade, and yet each year it continues to operate 
with  uncertainty  about  its  funding.  We  believe  that 
investment  in  peacekeeping  is  a  worthy  investment 
in  peacebuilding  and  State-building.  We  have  seen 
the  dividends  of  such  investment  in  Somalia.  I  look 
forward to engaging with our partners on that matter in 
the coming weeks and months.
A 
fundamental 
peacebuilding 
and  State-building  is  how  any  country  treats  its 
marginalized and voiceless citizens. Women are crucial 
element 
of 
17-29722
17/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
in  decision-making  and  represent  an  investment  in 
society.  In  spite  of  our  many  challenges,  Somalia  has 
made significant steps in that regard. During the 2016 
election, the number of women in Parliament increased 
from 14 to 24 per cent of the total. Although we missed 
our target of 30 per cent, we have improved markedly 
from a few years ago.
Six months ago, when I was forming my Council 
of  Ministers,  I  appointed  six  women  to  my  Cabinet. 
They hold some of the most important portfolios in our 
nation,  including  in  trade  and  industry,  health,  youth 
and sports, women and human rights and humanitarian 
affairs.  Women  have  played  an  instrumental  role  in 
Somalia  during  our  worst  times.  In  addition  to  being 
mothers, wives and sisters, they dominate the informal 
economy. Many living as refugees and migrants remain 
the  lifeline  of  their  families  through  remittances  sent 
to Somalia.
Similarly, young people are vital to peacebuilding 
and  State-building.  The  number  of  youths  in  our 
Parliament  has  increased  exponentially.  I  have  also 
appointed  a  number  of  very  young  people  to  key 
Cabinet positions. Tragically, one of them, Mr. Abbas 
Siraji,  was  killed  in  May.  He  was  a  beacon  of  hope 
for  Somalia’s  young  people.  Having  grown  up  in 
Kenya, in the world’s largest refugee camp, he worked 
hard,  studied  and  worked  for  various  United  Nations 
agencies.  I  appointed  him  Minister  of  Public  Works 
and Reconstruction when he was 31. Although he is no 
longer with us, his appointment brought out the potential 
of  thousands  of  young  people  across  the  country.  He 
showed them that life in the refugee camps, harsh as it 
was, did not mean the end of hope.
is  mandated 
Human  rights  is  one  of  the  core  principles  of  the 
United Nations. We are working hard to ensure respect 
for the human rights of all people. Our establishment 
of  institutions  such  as  our  National  Human  Rights 
Commission,  which 
to  protect  and 
promote  human  rights,  will  be  a  significant  step  in 
that direction. Vital legislation on human rights, such 
as  the  soon-to-be-approved  sexual  offences  bill,  will 
provide the tools to fight impunity for perpetrators of 
sexual crimes. However fond we are of our traditions, 
that should never be a reason to condone impunity. My 
Government is determined to find ways to harmonize 
our  traditional  dispute-resolution  approach  and  the 
conventional justice system in a manner that respects 
the human rights of its people.
The  United  Nations  continues  to  be  the  world’s 
most important shared platform for nations to develop 
and  strengthen  bilateral  and  multilateral  relations.  It 
is a core United Nations principle for States to respect 
one  another’s  political 
independence,  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity.  It  is  a  principle  that  should 
be  promoted  and  upheld  at  all  times,  especially  when 
engaging with fragile States, such as Somalia.
In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity 
to  add  my  voice  to  those  supporting  reform  of  the 
United Nations. The Organization has worked for peace 
and stability for decades, and I strongly believe that the 
Secretary-General’s reform agenda will most certainly 
lead to a far more responsive and dynamic institution. 
As a country that has greatly benefited from the United 
Nations system, we have also seen that it can improve 
its overall efficiency.
With that, I would like to conclude by once again 
reminding all of us that we must redouble our efforts to 
focus on peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable 
planet. That will take collective recognition of the fact 
that what happens in one corner of the world can affect 
those in other corners, too.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Ali  Khayre,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Somalia,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Lesotho.
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae 
Thabane, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Thabane  (Lesotho):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
congratulating  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
18/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
second session. His illustrious career as a diplomat gives 
us  confidence  that  we  will  see  a  successful  session, 
and  I  assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and 
cooperation  during  his  tenure.  Let  me  also  commend 
his  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  for  his  excellent 
leadership  of  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  He  handled  that  great  responsibility  very 
well and with much skill and devotion.
During  the  previous  session,  we  also  witnessed 
the  appointment  of 
the  new  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  António  Guterres,  whose  impeccable  credentials 
and  distinguished  service  within  the  United  Nations, 
coupled with his wealth of knowledge and experience, 
leave us hopeful that he will handle the challenges of his 
new position with dexterity. We therefore congratulate 
him  on  his  well-deserved  appointment  and  wish  him 
success in the long journey ahead. We also pay tribute 
to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  a  job  well 
done. He performed the duties of his high office with 
consummate diplomatic skill and honour.
We meet once again for the seventy-second time in 
the history of the United Nations in order to appraise 
the world’s political, security and economic situations. 
We do so at a critical juncture in human history. Now 
is  the  time  for  a  true  reflection  on  the  role  of  the 
Organization in the twenty-first century, since it is on 
the United Nations that humankind places much faith 
and hope for a better life for all.
The  pall  of  despair  that  descended  on  the  world 
following  the  Second  World  War  was  eased  by  our 
forebears’  adoption  of  lofty  ideals  when  they  came 
together in San Francisco and resolved
“to save succeeding generations from the scourge 
of war;
“to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in 
the dignity and worth of the human person, in the 
equal rights of men and women and of nations large 
and small, and;
“to promote social progress and better standards of 
life in larger freedom”.
Sadly,  today  we  speak  of  a  world  that  is  slowly 
regressing  to  resembling  the  one  that  existed  seven 
decades ago. The multifaceted and complex challenges 
that  have  besieged  us  are  threatening  to  erode  the 
laudable  strides  that  the  United  Nations  has  made 
since  its  establishment.  Inter-  and  intra-State  conflict 
characterizes  the  modern-day  world.  From  the  global 
refugee crisis to the spread of terrorism, the ability of 
the  United  Nations  to  effectively  resolve  conflict  is 
being  put  to  the  test.  The  heightened  tensions  on  the 
Korean peninsula, coupled with the flagrant violation 
there of Security Council resolutions and the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, speak to the 
arms race brewing in that part of the world.
As  if  that  were  not  enough,  respect  for  human 
rights and the rule of law — the principles that speak to 
the very fibre of the United Nations — continues to be 
flouted with impunity. Women and children in particular 
face  the  worst  forms  of  brutal  abuse,  especially  in 
conflict-ridden  countries.  Poverty  also  continues  to 
be  a  dreadful  affliction  for  developing  countries, 
undermining their efforts to re-orient their economies 
towards significant gains in real growth. The result is 
that  most  poverty-stricken  populations  are  sometimes 
left with no option but to employ unorthodox methods 
for economic survival to sustain their livelihoods.
It is in that context that we welcome the theme for 
this  session:  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace 
and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”.  It 
resonates squarely with the principles that underpinned 
the establishment of the United Nations. That is what 
the  Organization  stands  for.  The  complexities  and 
dichotomies  that  characterize  humankind’s  existence 
on the planet and the inequalities that prevail between 
developed  and  underdeveloped  countries  would  be  a 
thing of the past if we could remain true to our mission 
and focus on people on our development path.
While the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
embrace 
the  concept  of  universal  prosperity  for 
all  societies,  we  are  all  aware  that,  in  essence,  that 
ideal  is  still  far  from  being  realized.  We  must  move 
forward  cooperatively  in  our  efforts  to  achieve  peace 
and a decent life for all. It is incumbent on the entire 
international community to act in unison as we strive 
to restore peace and deploy a universal response to our 
goals. To that end, our immediate challenge is to come 
up with a new strategy that encapsulates the SDGs and 
multidimensionally integrates them into the concept, as 
the theme outlines.
We  are  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  in  Lesotho  our 
destiny is in our hands and that the chief responsibility 
for sustainable and equal development resides with us. 
As  a  newly  inaugurated  Administration,  we  have  set 
for ourselves the very lofty goal of restructuring all our 
important Government institutions. In that regard, we 
17-29722
19/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
intend to embark on an ambitious yet achievable reform 
programme. We are committed to fully implementing 
the  decisions  of  the  Southern  African  Development 
Community  (SADC)  and  putting  Lesotho  on  a  path 
of  inclusive  reform  that  will  consist  of  constitutional, 
parliamentary,  electoral,  public-sector  and  security-
sector  reforms.  It  is  an  exercise  that  will  involve  all 
stakeholders, who must engage with genuine and total 
commitment to establishing a stable political order that 
is conducive to economic development.
As  the  new  Government  of  Lesotho,  our  resolve 
and  commitment  to  implementing  SADC  decisions 
signifies our commitment to working together with our 
regional body in pursuit of lasting peace and security in 
our country and the whole SADC region. We have made 
good progress in the implementation of SADC decisions 
following  the  recommendations  of  Justice  Mpaphi 
Phumaphi,  which  were  laid  out  during  his  enquiry  in 
Lesotho  after  the  brutal  assassination  of  Lieutenant 
General Mahao, Lesotho’s Army Commander, in June 
2015. Today I have to once again report to the Assembly 
with  sadness  and  great  humiliation  the  assassination 
of  the  current  Army  Commander,  Lieutenant  General 
Khoantle  Motsomotso,  less  than  three  weeks  ago,  on 
5  September,  by  two  senior  army  officers,  who  were 
in  turn  shot  and  killed  by  the  General’s  bodyguards. 
Despite such daunting challenges to our small mountain 
Kingdom’s  political  and  security  instability,  SADC  is 
standing  firmly  behind  us  as  a  regional  bloc  to  help 
restore peace, political stability, security and the rule 
of law in Lesotho.
On that note, I wantto thank SADC, our development 
partners,  the  Friends  of  Lesotho,  the  African  Union 
and the United Nations for their unwavering support in 
ensuring  that  Lesotho’s  democracy  is  protected  in  its 
pursuit of economic growth and stability.
On  the  development  front,  I  am  happy  to  report 
that  the  Government  of  Lesotho  is  committed  to 
maintaining  fiscal  discipline  in  order  to  stabilize  the 
national  economy  and  stimulate  growth  and  business 
activity while preserving the environment. At the same 
time, we are relentlessly committed to combating crime 
and corruption at all levels of our society, in accordance 
with  SDG  16,  which  recognizes 
that  corruption 
undermines  efforts  to  combat  poverty  and  gender 
equality.  It  further  acts  as  a  tax  on  the  poor  when  it 
comes  to  accessing  their  right  to  public  services.  We 
are aware that on our own, without the support of our 
cooperating partners, our efforts to root out corruption 
cannot yield the desired results; hence our urgent call to 
them to join forces with us in our crusade.
As  a  least  developed  country,  we  believe  that  the 
concept  of  development  is  meaningful  only  when  it 
gives  communities  tangible  benefits  in  a  sustainable 
manner. It is indisputable fact that young people are the 
thread that holds together the fabric of every nation and 
that at the same time they can be major agents of change. 
It would be a serious and unwise miscalculation not to 
recognize them as our partners of today and leaders of 
tomorrow. In that regard, we emphasize the importance 
of  young  people’s  participation  in  decision-making  at 
all levels. Job creation for young people also remains a 
priority. With reference to SDG 8, our global strategy 
for  youth  employment  is  set  to  be  operationalized  by 
2020.  Countries  therefore  have  to  develop  strategies 
for youth employment and implement the Global Jobs 
Pact of the International Labour Organization. In that 
regard, the Government of Lesotho remains committed 
in its resolve to harness the energy of young Basotho 
men and women in order to further the advancement of 
the economy of our country.
Lesotho  continues  to  deal  with  the  scourge  of 
the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  which  is  more  prevalent 
among  young  women,  who  are  the  backbone  of  our 
economy. The empowerment of women is a focus of our 
development policy. We believe that elevating them to 
positions  of  leadership  in  both  the  private  and  public 
sectors  will  lead  to  a  more  equitable  and  prosperous 
society  in  Lesotho.  We  recognize  that  poverty  and 
the AIDS pandemic go hand in hand, and our poverty 
eradication policies therefore target the most vulnerable 
groups,  including  the  elderly,  AIDS  orphans,  women 
and  young  people.  We  remain  committed  to  ensuring 
that  those  objectives  are  tackled,  for  they  are  key 
components of the SDGs.
On  the  economic  front,  like  other  landlocked 
developing  countries,  Lesotho  continues 
to  face 
challenges  inherently  linked  to  its  unique  geographic 
position.  The  burden  of  high  transport  costs  and 
cumbersome  and  slow  export  processing  procedures 
continues  to  impose  serious  impediments  to  our 
external  trade.  I  must  therefore  mention  the  need  for 
increased  international  assistance  in  infrastructure 
development  and  institutional  capacity-building,  as 
well as industrialization and enhancement of productive 
capacity, for all developing countries, not only the least 
developed.
20/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
Lesotho  continues  to  support  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  We  are  deeply 
disturbed  by  the  ongoing  violence  in  Syria  and  other 
parts of the Middle East. The rise of the Islamic State in 
Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) has added another dimension 
to the scourge of international terrorism. It has become 
a  force  of  destruction  and  generates  mayhem  on  a 
global scale. We are encouraged by recent efforts aimed 
at shrinking the boundaries of the territories controlled 
by ISIL in Iraq and Syria. As a result of the ongoing 
violence in the Middle East and elsewhere, the world’s 
refugee  population  has  grown;  there  are  more  than 
65  million  displaced  persons,  including  those  fleeing 
hunger.  That  situation  is  intolerable,  as  it  has  created 
an  environment  in  which  young  people  have  become 
vulnerable to recruitment by terrorist movements and 
human trafficking.
In  recent  years,  Lesotho  has  faced  prolonged 
droughts due to the El Niño effect, which crippled the 
entire  Southern  African  subcontinent  and  led  to  food 
shortages  and  other  hardships.  The  recent  hurricanes 
that  have  devastated  the  Caribbean  and  parts  of  the 
United States, along with the torrential rains that have 
been witnessed in many countries, including floods of 
biblical proportions, are a stark reminder that climate 
change  is  with  us  and  that  urgent  action  is  required 
in  accordance  with  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change, which was concluded more than a year ago.
the  part  of  all, 
We  reiterate  our  appeal  that  small  countries  such 
as  Lesotho,  including  small  island  States,  should  be 
empowered  with  technologies  for  dealing  with  and 
adapting  to  climate-change  challenges.  Sustainable 
development will elude us without genuine commitment 
on 
including  our  development 
partners. The principles of common but differentiated 
responsibility  and  economic  might  and  capability 
between  developed  and  developing  nations  will  be 
critical to our success in building a sustainable world. 
We  therefore  call  on  the  international  community  to 
continue mobilizing and providing additional financial 
resources to Africa for climate-friendly technologies to 
address both the urgent adaptation and mitigation needs 
of Africa and other developing countries. Similarly, we 
urge countries that have reneged on their support to the 
Paris Agreement to reconsider their position and return 
to the fold.
The  eradication  of  colonialism  is  one  of  the  most 
notable achievements accomplished by the international 
community  through  the  United  Nations.  However, 
that  business  remains  unfinished.  The  questions  of 
Western Sahara and Palestine have defied solutions for 
a long time.
We reiterate our support for Western Sahara in its 
struggle for self-determination. Every day that passes 
without a change in the lives of the people of Western 
Sahara is a reminder to the world that we must renew 
our  determination  to  fight  the  injustices  perpetrated 
against 
the  Sahrawi  Arab  Democratic  Republic. 
History  will  judge  us  harshly  if  we  watch  in  silence 
as  unjust  treatment  is  meted  out  to  the  people  of  that 
African country. Our silence and inaction will leave an 
indelible mark of failure on our collective character. In 
the modern world the use of colonial tactics is totally 
unacceptable. In that connection, we call on the United 
Nations  to  remain  resolute  in  its  determination  to  rid 
the world of the scourge of colonialism. The agreement 
by  the  POLISARIO  Front  and  Morocco  to  resume 
negotiations in order to reach a long-term solution has 
not gone unnoticed. We commend them for that bold step 
and assure them of our support in that noble endeavour.
The  question  of  Palestine  has  been  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda  for  decades.  We  continue  to  believe 
that  a  two-State  solution,  based  on  the  1967  borders, 
whereby  Israel  and  Palestine  coexist  side-by-side  in 
equal  sovereignty,  is  the  most  viable  proposal  for  a 
permanent  settlement  to  that  vexing  problem.  The 
Palestinians  too  deserve  to  enjoy  the  right  to  peace, 
development and the sanctity of life.
Concerning  the  nuclear-disarmament  landscape, 
the  United  Nations  made  significant  progress  a  few 
months  ago  with  the  adoption  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  as  the  first  legally 
binding  international  agreement  to  comprehensively 
prohibit  nuclear  weapons  with  the  goal  of  eventually 
achieving  their  total  elimination.  That  is  a  historic 
achievement,  especially  in  the  light  of  the  ongoing 
tensions  in  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  argument  that 
nuclear  weapons  are  a  deterrent  is  a  fallacy.  Such 
weapons  are  a  threat  to  human  existence,  and  their 
possessors should do the right thing and renounce them 
in line with their international obligations. The Treaty 
should not remain a mere paper agreement; it must be 
ratified and implemented by all.
As  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  we 
should  continue  to  resist  all  attempts  to  undermine 
the global consensus that the United Nations has built 
around many issues of importance to our peoples. We 
17-29722
21/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
remain convinced that it is the only universal institution 
that can safeguard world peace and ensure the survival 
of all and sundry. For it to do so, however, the reform 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations  must  proceed  without 
further delay, including reform of the Security Council. 
A Council that is transparent and representative of all 
regions, including Africa, will go a long way to fulfilling 
the ideals for which the United Nations was founded. 
Unilateral  actions  that  defy  civility  and  international 
law belong to the past. Let us march forward with unity 
of purpose, while focusing on our peoples and striving 
for peace so that we can all have a decent life.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Lesotho for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Sir  Louis  Straker,  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister 
International 
Trade  and  Regional  Integration  of  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines.
for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Sir  Louis  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines): 
Our Organization was founded amid the still glowing 
embers  and  simmering  tensions  of  global  war.  In  the 
shadows  of  widespread  death  and  destruction,  the 
nations  of  the  world  united  in  recognition  of  the  fact 
that  global  challenges  can  be  overcome  only  through 
collective action and international law, not misguided 
unilateralism  or  short-sighted  self-interest.  That 
recognition remains as valid today as it was 72 years 
ago, even as new threats to life and development have 
joined  armed  conflict  as  challenges  demanding  a 
concerted international response.
On  behalf  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
I  would  like  to  express  our  stand  in  solidarity  with 
the  Government  and  the  people  of  Mexico  as  they 
are  suffering  the  devastating  effects  of  yet  another 
earthquake. As I speak before the Assembly today, the 
island of Dominica has been levelled by a direct hit from 
Hurricane Maria, even as it was continuing to recover 
from the widespread devastation wrought by Tropical 
Storm  Erika  two  years  ago.  No  individual  there  has 
been  spared.  A  series  of  hurricanes  —  Harvey,  Irma, 
Jose,  and  Maria  —  of  unprecedented  intensity  have 
struck the peoples of our region with unerring accuracy 
and rapidity.
The States and territories affected include the United 
States,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Anguilla,  Dominica, 
Cuba, Saint Kitts and Nevis, the Bahamas, the British 
Virgin Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Saint 
Martin, Puerto Rico and, today, the Turks and Caicos 
Islands. In a period of five weeks, each of those countries 
and territories has been struck with a force comparable 
to that of a weapon of mass destruction. Hundreds of 
people  are  dead.  The  damage  to  infrastructure,  while 
still being calculated, is already estimated at more than 
$130 billion. The current Atlantic hurricane season is 
likely to be the most expensive in history. In terms of 
development, the countries affected will take years, if 
not decades, to recover from the devastating battering.
Let us make no mistake: the death and destruction 
wrought  by  this  hurricane  season  are  not  merely  the 
result of freak weather events or vengeful acts of God. 
They are the direct result of the acts and omissions of 
humankind. They are manifestations of climate change 
and the symptoms of the prescient predictions made by 
the overwhelming majority of scientists. Today almost 
every  year  is  hotter  than  the  preceding  one;  almost 
every hurricane season more intense; and almost every 
storm,  drought  and  flood  more  destructive  than  its 
predecessors. It is a barefaced insult to the intelligence 
and  experience  of  the  peoples  of  island  States  and 
coastal areas to call climate change a hoax.
At this point, it is almost a cliché to reaffirm that 
small island developing States are the most vulnerable 
to  climate  change  while  contributing  the  least  to  the 
emissions that cause it. But that truism is the foundation 
of  our  just,  urgent  and  unavoidable  demand  that  the 
nations  that  have  contributed  most  to  climate  change 
should also do the most to mitigate its effects and assist 
others in adapting to our dangerous new realities.
Our  global  community,  in  the  great  tradition  of 
the United Nations and in the spirit of the founders of 
this  Organization,  came  together  through  hard-fought 
negotiations  to  craft  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change, an ambitious if imperfect agreement designed 
to arrest climate change and assist those most affected 
by  it.  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  views  any 
attempt to disavow the freshly minted commitments of 
the Paris Agreement as an act of hostility, and we draw 
a direct, causal connection between any such abdication 
and the future death and destruction that island States 
face as the result of increasingly frequent and intense 
weather events.
22/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
The 
independent  countries  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Cuba,  the  Bahamas 
and Dominica require the special and sustained support 
of the international community. These countries need 
immediate and massive assistance with both immediate 
relief  and  long-term  reconstruction.  That  assistance 
should be concessional and free from antiquated notions 
of per capita gross domestic product. We therefore join 
other  countries  in  calling  for  a  donor  conference  to 
address  the  daunting  challenges  that  those  countries 
face. Only together can we recover.
Additionally, the Caribbean territories with special 
relationships  to  colonial  Powers  in  the  United  States, 
the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands are in 
desperate need of assistance and have limited options for 
international  cooperation,  given  their  unique  political 
status.  Despite  our  small  size  and  limited  means,  the 
people of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines have already 
sent emergency assistance to these territories, as well 
as technical expertise. We urge administering Powers 
and potential donors alike to look past political issues 
and  look  instead  to  the  needs  of  the  affected  peoples 
and communities. We also call on the colonial Powers 
to accept their full responsibility for the recovery and 
rehabilitation of these territories.
The rise of climate change as an existential threat 
of our era has not replaced the persistent peril of armed 
conflict across the globe. The human suffering in Syria, 
Yemen  and  Myanmar  demands  greater  international 
attention  and  action.  Similarly,  the  potential  threats 
to  international  peace  and  security  posed  by  tensions 
on  the  Korean  peninsula,  among  the  Gulf  States 
and  in  the  State  of  Palestine  require  persistent  and 
prioritized diplomacy.
Diplomacy,  though  difficult,  is  always  preferable 
to  the  alternative.  The  United  Nations  was  founded 
and  continues  to  exist  on  that  fundamental  premise. 
Frustration with the pace of negotiation and mediation 
cannot give way to the intemperate urge to impose quick 
military fixes on inherently political problems. Nor can 
it  lead  to  an  illogical  interpretation  of  sovereign  self-
interest  that  justifies  trampling  on  the  sovereignty  of 
other States.
Sovereignty is not a sword but a shield. The United 
Nations is not a forum for measuring whose sovereignty 
is  bigger,  or  whose  military  is  better  equipped  to 
pursue  its  narrow,  short-term  self-interest.  We  are  a 
community  founded  instead  on  the  assumption  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  all  States,  rich  and  poor,  large 
and small. One nation’s ability to destroy another does 
not  endow  it  with  special  rights,  but  rather  profound 
responsibilities, chief among them restraint. President 
Theodore  Roosevelt’s  realpolitik  adage  of  speaking 
softly  while  carrying  a  big  stick  —  whatever  its 
limitations  —  cannot  be  replaced  by  irresponsible, 
bellicose sabre-rattling that inches us closer to the types 
of conflict that the Assembly was created to prevent.
threats 
to 
the  continued 
In that context. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
views  with  alarm 
the 
sovereignty  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela. 
To  be  sure,  the  people  of  Venezuela  have  endured 
an  extended  period  of  political  conflict,  which  has 
exacerbated other difficulties in the country. But with 
illegal street violence dwindling and all political parties 
committed  to  the  upcoming  gubernatorial  elections, 
the  interventionist  option  increasingly  floated  by  the 
United  States  and  an  imprudent  Secretary  General  of 
the Organization of American States have no place in a 
modern Latin America.
Similarly, any threat, expressed or implied, to the 
sovereignty  of  the  peaceful  and  noble  Cuban  people 
is  an  anachronistic  throwback  to  Cold  War  posturing 
without  any  logical  justification,  particularly  in  the 
light of the recent détente between the Governments of 
Cuba and the United States.
Let us be clear. Latin America and the Caribbean 
is  a  zone  of  peace.  There  is  no  conflict,  challenge  or 
disagreement  in  our  region  that  requires  military 
intervention  in  any  way,  shape  or  form,  be  it  covert, 
overt  or  by  proxy.  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
is  resolutely  and  implacably  opposed  to  any  attempt 
to  foment  external  interference  or  interventionist 
activities against any nation in our hemisphere.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  was  honoured 
to  host  the  2017  Caribbean  regional  seminar  on 
decolonization,  consistent  with  our  responsibilities  as 
one  of  the  many  Caribbean  and  Pacific  small  island 
States  and  former  colonies  in  Africa  and  Asia  whose 
self-determination was achieved under the watchful eye 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  inconvenient  truth  is  that 
the decolonization process remains incomplete, and it 
will be essential to intensify our efforts to achieve the 
goal of full self-government through the attainment of a 
legitimate political status option providing for absolute 
political  equality.  That  principle  must  be  the  guiding 
standard applicable to the small island territories, just 
17-29722
23/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
as  it  was  the  standard  for  decolonizing  other  former 
colonies.  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  remains 
fully seized of this issue and was pleased to play its part 
in completing the unfinished business of decolonization 
by hosting the 2017 seminar and previous seminars in 
2011  and  2005.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  have  great 
sympathy  for  the  legitimate  aspiration  of  the  people 
of  West  Papua  to  freedom  and  independence  and  to 
govern themselves and guide their own destiny through 
legitimate political means.
The issue of United Nations reform has justifiably 
gained momentum in recent months. As a large, aging 
bureaucracy, the United Nations has not demonstrated 
the nimbleness and responsiveness it needs for our new 
and fast-paced modern challenges. However, the areas 
demanding the most immediate and far-reaching reforms 
are  not  budgetary  allocations  or  staffing  matters  but 
rather the political and organizational underpinnings of 
the most fossilized structures of the United Nations and 
the wider international architecture.
The  litmus  test  for  any  serious  talk  of  United 
Nations  reform  is  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
Those  who  pay  lip  service  to  reform  while  ignoring 
the  need  for  a  reformed  Council  —  with  expanded 
permanent membership, a special voice for island States 
and  radically  revised  working  methods  —  are  simply 
engaging in an exercise where they attempt to reduce 
their  financial  responsibilities  while  maintaining  an 
unjustifiable  grip  on  disproportionate  and  outmoded 
power arrangements.
Similarly,  the  lessons  of  the  global  economic 
and  financial  crisis  have  yet  to  be  implemented.  Our 
inactivity has produced an extended period of halting 
and  uneven  recovery  and  an  iniquitous  globalization 
whose unequal distribution of benefits and burdens is 
spurring  a  popular  backlash  worldwide.  The  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
must  squarely  and  frontally  address  reforms  to  our 
international  financial  architecture,  in  particular  the 
Bretton Woods institutions.
For  Caribbean  States,  the  issue  of  declining 
correspondent  banking  relationships  is  a  grave  and 
gathering threat to our continued growth and ongoing 
connections to the global economy. The United Nations, 
the Group of 20 and international financial institutions 
cannot shirk this issue as a private banking matter. It 
is a threat to development of the highest priority, and it 
demands a coordinated, political solution.
located 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  applauds  the 
President’s sustained focus on sustainable development. 
Our  Government  has 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) at the centre of its national 
development strategies. In the areas of climate change, 
pollution and biodiversity, we have banned Styrofoam 
products  and  turtle-hunting,  tightened  restrictions  on 
internationally  permitted  indigenous  whaling  activity 
and  implemented  new  coastal  protection  regulations. 
We are investing heavily in geothermal and solar energy 
and expect to generate 80 per cent of our energy needs 
from renewable sources within the next three years.
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is also dedicating 
special  funding  to  technology-based  entrepreneurs, 
improving  wages  and  occupational  health  and  safety 
legislation  and  investing  in  new  modem  medical 
facilities. We have launched an innovative zero-hunger 
fund  with  interventions  targeting  food  insecurity 
and  unemployment  in  vulnerable  populations,  while 
simultaneously  creating  a  contingency  fund  to  aid  in 
disaster recovery efforts.
We are serious and committed to the achievement 
of all the SDGs by the year 2030. Nonetheless, as the 
President and the Secretary-General have recognized, 
the  achievement  of  the  SDGs  requires  international 
cooperation and the commitment of new and additional 
funding.  Ours  is  the  only  body  that  can  generate  and 
sustain  the  necessary  political  will  and  resources  to 
give life to the ambition of the SDGs. The link between 
development and peace is well established, and the link 
between peace and the United Nations is immutable.
A  substantial  part  of  the  backdrop  or  context  of 
the continuing socioeconomic challenges of the nation 
States of our Caribbean civilization is the awful legacy 
of  underdevelopment  that  European  colonialism  has 
bequeathed to us as a consequence of native genocide 
and  African  slavery.  The 
international  campaign 
for  reparations  from  the  former  colonial  Powers  in 
order  to  assist  in  repairing  this  malignant  legacy  is 
urgent  and  timely.  It  deserves  the  full  support  of  the 
Assembly,  particularly  within  this  decade  which  has 
been declared to be focused on the uplifting of persons 
of African descent.
I  repeat  yet  again  the  necessity  and  desirability 
for  the  responsible  authorities  in  the  Dominican 
Republic  and  the  United  Nations  to  address  properly, 
and once and for all, the respective issues of the denial 
of  citizenship  for  persons  of  Haitian  descent  in  the 
24/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
Dominican  Republic  and  the  cholera  epidemic  that 
some United Nations troops in Haiti initiated.
In 
the  quest 
for  deepening  multilateralism, 
international cooperation and peace, the glaring injustice 
of  the  continuing  denial  of  Taiwan’s  membership  in 
the  special  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  demands 
correction.  The  ghosts  of  a  divisive  past  ought  to  be 
laid to rest. Taiwan’s legitimate incorporation into the 
family of nations is long overdue. How can we neglect 
or deny 23 billion people who have been contributing 
so much to developing countries in every sector of their 
economy?  How  can  we  deny  them  entrance  into  the 
organs  of  the  United  Nations?  It  is  unfair  and  unjust 
and should be remedied.
The President took the Chair.
The travails of the people of Palestine arising from 
the illegal occupation of their lands continue to haunt 
us  globally.  The  General  Assembly  has  repeatedly 
pronounced  in  favour  of  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people, but the illegal occupiers, backed internationally 
by  a  handful  of  powerful  States,  have  continued  to 
thwart the will of the international community. Peace 
in  the  Middle  East  will  remain  a  mirage  unless  the 
national rights of the Palestinian people are recognized 
and upheld in practice.
As we speak in this Hall today, we seek to amplify 
the echoes of the visionaries of yesteryear who stood at 
this rostrum to give voice to the system of multilateral 
cooperation  and  mutual  respect  that  has  defined  our 
post-war existence. New challenges may arise, but the 
solutions  —  diplomacy,  ambitious  action  and  respect 
for the sovereign equality of all Member States — are 
eternal.  Multilateral  diplomacy  may  be  messy  and 
imperfect;  international  law  may  be  frustratingly 
inconsistent;  the  path  of  development  may  be  beset 
on  all  sides  by  natural  and  man-made  obstacles;  but, 
united, we have always been greater than the sum of our 
individual parts, and together there is no challenge too 
great for the collective wisdom of our great nations and 
our great institution.
As  new  challenges  confront  us,  let  us  hew  ever 
closer to the undeniable strengths of our Organization 
to make this a better world for all of us.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Prak  Sokhonn,  Senior  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
Kingdom of Cambodia.
Mr. Sokhonn (Cambodia): On behalf of the Royal 
Government  of  Cambodia  and  on  my  own  behalf, 
I  congratulate  you,  Mr.  Lajčák,  on  your  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  of  Fiji. 
for his commitment and dedication to the work of the 
previous session.
I join previous speakers in expressing my deepest 
condolences  and  sympathy  to  the  victims  of  the 
earthquake in Mexico and their families.
My delegation finds the theme of this session of the 
General Assembly extremely relevant. It appropriately 
sums up the six overarching priorities of the presidency, 
which  respond  to  the  global  megatrends  currently 
facing  our  world.  The  interaction  between  population 
growth, massive migration movement, climate change 
and  food  insecurity  renders  these  megatrends  all  the 
more worrisome.
Similarly,  the  same  forces  of  globalization  that 
in  the  past  have  made  us  so  interdependent  are 
exposing  deep  flaws  in  the  existing  international 
order.  A  quarter  century  after  the  end  of  the  Cold 
War, the world has become, by many measures, more 
complex  and  challenging  than  ever  before.  Today, 
our  world  is  increasingly  multipolar,  which  creates 
chaos  and  turbulence  as  the  competition  between  the 
major  Powers  becomes  more  confrontational.  We  are 
more  interdependent  but  more  unequal;  we  are  more 
prosperous  and  yet  millions  are  still  afflicted  with 
poverty. All these factors have contributed to a sense 
of a world out of balance, and that is the paradox that 
defines our world today.
While  we  share  the  deep  concern  about  the 
situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  we  appeal  to  all 
the  parties  concerned  to  exercise  the  utmost  restraint 
to  avoid  provocative  activities  and  remain  committed 
to  peaceful  and  constructive  dialogue  so  as  to  defuse 
tension and promote trust and confidence in the region.
Another  factor  destabilizing  collective  security  is 
the unilateral and illegal embargo on Cuba. We ask that 
this violation of international law be brought to an end.
While it is true that globalization and technological 
progress have dramatically increased global trade and 
wealth  all  over  the  world,  it  is  equally  true  that  they 
have  been  factors  in  the  increases  we  are  seeing  in 
inequality,  social  tensions  and,  sometimes,  conflicts. 
17-29722
25/27
A/72/PV.17 
22/09/2017
To  a  large  extent,  those  fragilities  are  responsible  for 
many of today’s conflicts and threats.
One  of  those  threats  is  terrorism,  from  which  no 
country  is  spared.  Defeating  that  transnational  threat 
requires  a  firm  global  resolve  to  comprehensively 
address it in all its forms, starting with the symptoms 
and  root  causes  of  radicalization  and  confronting  the 
issues  of  foreign  fighters  and  financing  for  terrorism 
and other forms of support.
Let  me  touch  on  two  topics  of  relevance  to  the 
theme  of  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and 
climate change.
The  2030  Agenda  is  inextricably  linked  to  many 
of  the  issues  that  perturb  the  world  today,  the  most 
pressing being climate change, which is not only a direct 
threat  in  itself  but  is  also  a  multiplier  of  many  other 
threats  —  from  poverty,  diseases  and  food  insecurity 
to mass migrations and regional conflicts. In our view, 
climate  change  is  a  global  human  security  issue  that 
presents  a  serious  and  unprecedented  threat  to  global 
peace and security more generally.
Cambodia  is  regularly  ranked  among  the  top  10 
most  vulnerable  countries  globally,  with  extreme 
weather  events  damaging  our  infrastructure,  severely 
affecting  agriculture,  disrupting  economic  activities 
and hampering crucial social services for our vulnerable 
groups.  While  our  contribution  to  climate  change  is 
negligible  and  our  domestic  resources  quite  limited, 
we have nonetheless made clear commitments to low-
carbon  development  and  look  forward  to  developing 
partnerships  with  other  progressive  nations  that  are 
committed  to  addressing  this  formidable  challenge 
cooperatively and fairly. I am pleased to note that the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change acknowledges the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, 
meaning  that  they  are  based  on  countries’  respective 
capabilities  and  varying  national  conditions.  Indeed, 
the 2030 Agenda is our boldest agenda for humankind 
and it is aimed at fostering fair globalization.
Cambodia  has  demonstrated  its  commitment  to 
sustainable  development  over  the  past  two  decades. 
Specifically, our target of reducing the poverty rate to 
19.5 per cent by 2015 was achieved ahead of schedule. 
We have received a United Nations award for halving 
hunger before the deadline. Cambodia is also among the 
top seven performers globally for its improvements in 
the Human Development Index between 1990 and 2015.
With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  Cambodia 
is  proud  of  its  unwavering  commitment  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping efforts. More than two decades 
ago  Cambodia  received  United  Nations  Blue  Berets 
deployed  on  their  peacekeeping  mission.  Since  2006, 
we have dispatched more than 4,700 troops to take part 
with great and commendable success in United Nations 
peacekeeping missions in a number of hotspots in the 
world, such as the Sudan, South Sudan, Lebanon, the 
Central African Republic, Chad, Syria and Mali.
As all delegations know, peacekeeping operations 
are not without security risks. Peacekeepers continue to 
come under attack from armed groups and increasingly 
from terrorists. In May, rebel ambushes in the Central 
African Republic killed and wounded our Cambodian 
peacekeepers.  Let  us  pay  tribute  to  those  who  have 
died while serving under the United Nations flag and 
remind ourselves to acknowledge their contributions in 
the transformation of many countries from battlefields 
to peaceful States.
(spoke in French)
I  now  wish  to  address  the  issues  of  human  rights 
and democracy, since my country is regularly targeted 
in  that  regard  by  some  countries  and  United  Nations 
agencies, as well as by international non-governmental 
organizations active in these areas.
Cambodia upholds the universal principle that we 
all  possess  fundamental  human  rights.  We  therefore 
see  no  incompatibility  between  national  sovereignty, 
as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
and  international  monitoring  of  the  application  of 
those rights, provided that it is impartial and takes all 
pertinent factors on the ground into account, and that 
observers harbour no prejudice or prejudgement against 
democratically elected authorities.
Now, what is the reality? To get straight to the point, 
assessments of human rights situations vary according 
to the political predispositions of certain great Powers. 
The same reasoning holds true for some big international 
non-governmental organizations whose agendas are far 
from politically neutral. The issue of human rights and 
democracy comes up only when the specific interests 
of certain major Powers are at stake, depending on the 
vagaries of the moment. Otherwise, all we hear is total 
and often complicit silence.
My  country  suffered  from  the  deliberate  political 
instrumentalization of human rights and democracy for 
26/27 
17-29722
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.17
more than 12 years, during which time the international 
community  denied  the  existence  of  the  most  terrible 
mass crimes. Today, as a survivor of the genocidal Pol 
Pot regime, I am pained and shocked to hear the Special 
Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Cambodia 
refer to the crimes perpetrated by that regime as mere 
disturbances.  We  are  subject  to  incessant  criticism 
on  matters  that  are  reported  in  a  partial  and  biased 
manner.  Those  reports  always  blame  the  Government 
and  portray  the  opposition  as  martyrs  of  democracy 
and  human  rights.  They  invariably  and  exclusively 
target  the  Government,  while  the  wrongdoings  and 
illegal behaviour of the opposition are never or rarely 
mentioned.
What country represented in the General Assembly 
would refrain from acting when opposition politicians 
incite  people  to  remove  border  posts,  ignite  vile 
hysteria with racist remarks and publish false treaties 
and fake maps to make people believe that some parts 
of  the  country  have  been  annexed  by  neighbouring 
States?  What  country  endorses  defamation  and 
slander? In most countries, incitements to racial hatred, 
xenophobic  statements  and  speeches  of  the  extreme 
right are severely denounced or even condemned, as we 
have just seen with the events of Charlottesville. While 
such actions are the daily language of the Cambodian 
opposition, they have never been condemned or raised 
by  non-governmental  organizations  or  the  United 
Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human 
rights in Cambodia.
The  latest  attacks  on  the  Royal  Government  of 
Cambodia  pertain  to  the  expulsion  of  an  institute 
affiliated with a foreign political party that, under the 
cover  of  democracy  training,  deliberately  supports 
the  opposition  and  violates  our  law;  the  closure  of  a 
tax  delinquent  foreign  newspaper;  and  the  arrest  of 
an  opposition  leader  who,  in  a  recorded  interview, 
confessed to being an agent of a major Power working 
to overthrow the Government. In what country would 
such behaviour by a foreign Government be tolerated? 
We have not acted arbitrarily but rather completely in 
accord with provisions of our specific laws.
We can learn an important lesson from the history 
of my country. When we were forced to choose a path set 
by some Western Powers, Cambodia ended up suffering 
one  of  the  most  horrific  human  tragedies  of  the  last 
century. We must recognize that it was the Cambodian 
Government,  under  the  leadership  of  Prime  Minister 
Hun  Sen  and  with  its  own  homegrown  methods,  that 
secured peace for the country in 1998. It was a striking 
demonstration of the fact that certain practices imposed 
from  the  outside  are  often  part  of  the  problem  rather 
than the solution.
Today we are accused of undermining democracy 
because,  under  existing  laws,  we  are  prosecuting 
and  punishing  people  who  violate  the  law.  Those 
who  criticize  or  even  threaten  us  refuse  to  take  into 
consideration  the  crimes  committed  by  those  whom 
they protect.
While  acknowledging  with  sincere  gratitude  the 
very  positive  and  important  contributions  of  many 
countries  to  peace  and  economic  development  in  our 
country, I would like to conclude by affirming that the 
discourse  of  certain  Governments  concerning  human 
rights  and  democracy  will  be  relevant  and  credible 
only  when  those  countries  first  apply  to  themselves 
the same standards of treatment that they apply to their 
assessments, criticisms and condemnations of others.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
17-29722
27/27
