United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
22nd plenary meeting
Saturday, 23 September 2017, 6 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 6.15 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The President: I call on His Excellency Mr. Ibrahim 
Yacoubou,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation, 
African  Integration  and  Nigeriens  Abroad  of  the 
Republic of the Niger.
Mr.  Yacoubou  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 
me at the outset to extend my sincere congratulations to 
you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session, as well 
as my best wishes for your success. I would also like to 
congratulate  the  new  Secretary-General,  Mr.  António 
Guterres,  and  wish  him  every  success  in  his  mission. 
The Niger assures him of its full support.
The  present  session  is  taking  place  in  a  specific 
context,  marked  by  the  deterioration  of  the  security 
situation  in  some  Member  States  and,  recently,  by 
the  destruction  caused  by  hurricanes  in  others.  To 
those  affected  countries,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
solidarity  and  compassion.  For  those  who  have  the 
flaw of forgetting or neglecting nature, it has reminded 
us  that  often  it  can  be  indomitable  and  has  shown  us 
that  climate  change  can  at  times  bring  disaster  and 
irremediable  losses.  We  must  therefore  be  aware  and 
resolute in our conviction that new norms of production 
and consumption are being imposed on us.
The Niger is aware that each country is responsible 
for  its  own  development  and  each  person  for  his  own 
destiny. However, the most vulnerable countries — I am 
speaking  of  the  least  developed  countries,  landlocked 
developing  countries  and  small  island  developing 
States  —  deserve  the  support  and  assistance  of  the 
more  affluent  nations.  Cooperation  and  solidarity  are 
essential pillars of our common Organization. It is an 
original  commitment  of  all  Member  States  to  work 
together so that all peoples can attain a decent standard 
of living.
That  is  why,  while  recognizing  some  positive 
developments,  it  is  important  for  the  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  to  make  a  greater  commitment 
to  partnership  and  cooperation  in  order  to  achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  to  combat 
inequalities  among  and  within  States. 
that 
connection,  the  Niger  stresses  the  imperative  need 
for  effective  mobilization  of  the  resources  needed  to 
finance  development,  in  accordance  with  the  Addis 
Ababa Action Plan.
In 
For  its  part,  and  to  give  meaning  to  the  Niger 
people’s  struggle  for  prosperity  and  shared  progress, 
the  Government  of  the  Niger  has  successfully  carried 
out the Economic and Social Development Plan 2012-
2015  and  has  just  adopted  a  second  plan  for  2017  to 
2021. That plan takes into account the main trends of 
the  Renaissance  Programme  Act  2  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mahamadou  Issoufou,  President  of  the  Republic 
of the Niger, and of the Sustainable Development and 
Inclusive Growth Strategy, Niger 2035. It was designed 
to  continue  and  amplify  the  Government’s  efforts  to 
face the immense challenges to our development. It is an 
expression of our determination to improve, substantially 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29819 (E)
*1729819*
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
and sustainably, the basic social indicators, guarantee 
universal  rights,  realize  food  self-sufficiency,  protect 
the environment, build strong democratic institutions, 
defend  the  integrity  of  our  territory  and  ensure  the 
security  of  goods  and  people  throughout  the  national 
territory. It also takes into account the main features of 
the African Union’s Agenda 2063 and those of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Very opportunely, that plan will be presented to the 
Niger’s technical and financial partners at a donor round 
table in Paris from 11 to 13 December 2017, under the 
patronage of the President of the Republic of the Niger. 
The  Niger  will  mobilize  to  produce  the  maximum 
amount  of  internal  resources  to  finance  the  plan,  but 
it also knows it can count on the active solidarity of its 
development partners. I therefore appeal to States and 
the private sector that believe in our potential to be a 
partner in that project.
I have just mentioned our development challenges 
and  our  responses  to  them.  But  our  country  and  all 
the  countries  of  the  Sahel  face  significant  security 
challenges.  In  reality,  they  are  strategic  threats  that 
may  even  jeopardize  the  existence  of  our  States.  The 
Niger is facing three hotbeds of threats.
The first is related to the situation in Libya. Without 
a  Government  exercising  control  over  the  whole 
territory, with dozens of militias, terrorist groups and 
all kinds of traffickers and a process in difficulty, the 
situation is of concern not only for the Libyans but also 
for neighbouring countries such as the Niger. Because 
of the uncontrolled movement of arms of all calibres, 
armed  groups  have  become  direct  threats  to  both  the 
Libyan  people  and  neighbouring  countries.  Until  that 
country  is  stabilized,  we  will  have  no  guarantee  that 
the  Sahelo-Saharan  space  will  not  continue  to  face 
violent upheavals.
the  entire 
The  Niger  calls  on 
international 
community  to  genuinely  commit  to  the  restoration  of 
a  democratic  order  in  Libya.  The  Niger  has  only  one 
agenda  in  Libya  —  peace.  That  is  why  we  believe 
that  we  must  already  be  supporting  the  process  of 
revising the Libyan Political Agreement. We call on all 
parties to make every effort to ensure that the Libyans 
themselves  are  masters  of  their  political  destiny; 
that  reconciliation  is  inclusive  and  excludes  groups 
terrorists;  that  the  army  is  unified  and  national;  that 
militias are disarmed and terrorist groups neutralized; 
and,  lastly,  that  the  referendum  and  electoral  process 
is  undertaken  on  the  basis  of  a  new  constitution  and 
consensual electoral laws.
The second threat that we face is linked to ongoing 
presence of Boko Haram in the Lake Chad basin. For 
more than two years, in synergy with Cameroon, Chad 
and  Nigeria,  we  have  been  fighting  hard  against  the 
terrorist  group  Boko  Haram.  That  barbarous  group, 
which  has  claimed  several  thousand  victims,  is  today 
considered one of the most cruel of recent years.
Thanks  to  the  Multinational  Joint  Task  Force, 
we  have  gained  meaningful  victories  and  fear  has 
changed  sides.  Today  we  have  considerably  reduced 
the  offensive  and  harmful  capacities  of  Boko  Haram. 
It  is  no  longer  possible  for  that  criminal  organization 
to  control  and  administer,  as  it  did  so  easily  before, 
any locality in any one of our countries. However, even 
though they are weakened and wandering, elements of 
Boko  Haram  still  remain  dangerous.  They  organize 
suicide attacks by young girls forced to become human 
bombs  or  sex  slaves,  and  engage  in  racketeering  and 
kidnappings. In that connection, I wish to recall the 39 
women and children abducted last July in the Niger by 
the  terrorist  group  Boko  Haram.  The  Government  of 
the Niger remains strongly engaged and mobilized until 
their liberation.
The third threat, and by far the most worrying for us, 
is the situation in northern Mali. We must resolve two 
questions there. The first concerns the implementation 
of  the  Algiers  peace  agreements,  and  the  second 
concerns fight against terrorist groups and traffickers.
From  our  point  of  view,  the  most  important  of 
those  two  issues  is  the  fight  against  terrorist  groups 
and  traffickers.  Until  they  are  defeated,  it  will  be 
difficult to implement the peace agreements or to hope 
for the restoration of the authority of the Malian State 
throughout its national territory. Therefore our primary 
objective  is  the  eradication  of  those  groups  and  the 
destruction of all trafficking that has become the source 
of their financing. That is why the member countries of 
the Group of Five for the Sahel (G-5 Sahel) decided to 
set up a joint armed force.
Despite  the  commitment  and  determination  of 
the  G-5  Sahel  member  States,  we  remain  deeply 
concerned by the weak mobilization of the international 
community to make that force operational. The Niger is 
convinced that the force will make it possible to impose 
the  conditions  for  an  irreversible  balance  of  power  in 
favour  of  peace  and  stability  in  Mali  and  therefore 
2/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
throughout the Sahel. I therefore call for a real start so 
that  we  can  make  the  necessary  decisions.  The  Niger 
calls on the Security Council to adopt a new resolution 
that foresees a commitment of our forces under Chapter 
VII  and  to  provide  a  mechanism  for  predictable  and 
sustainable financing. Moreover, it is simply a matter 
of reorienting existing resources to enable the force to 
achieve its objectives.
What  is  at  stake  in  the  Sahel  is  a  fight  not  only 
for  the  peace  and  security  of  the  region,  but  also  for 
international peace and security. Failing to help the G-5 
Sahel  and  leaving  the  situation  in  Mali  to  deteriorate 
even  further  would  be  a  mistake  that  the  Member 
States  should  not  commit.  I  would  therefore  like  to 
thank  all  partners  who  already  have  announced  their 
contribution to the operationalization of the G-5 Sahel 
joint force. The Niger welcomes the recent consultations 
undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General  and  encourages 
him to continue his efforts to enable the deployment of 
the force.
With  regard  to  peacekeeping  operations,  is  it 
not  time  for  the  United  Nations  to  question  their 
effectiveness and to learn lessons from the shortcomings 
and failures observed here and there? Indeed, the nature 
of and actors in those conflicts have changed. We are 
dealing with non-State actors resorting to asymmetric 
actions  for  which  peacekeeping  missions  are  neither 
adapted nor prepared. That is why the United Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Mali  has  become  one  of  the  deadliest  United  Nations 
missions  today.  This  it  is  important  to  review  those 
missions  with  regard  to  their  composition,  their 
armaments and, especially, their mandate.
In  discussing  the  issue  of  terrorism  and  the 
determined  fight  that  our  defence  and  security  forces 
are  waging,  I  would  like  to  say  here  that  the  Niger 
will  remain  eternally  grateful  for  the  sacrifice  of  its 
daughters  and  sons  who,  with  courage  and  honour, 
are  fighting  to  preserve  and  safeguard  the  integrity 
of our country. We are certainly paying a heavy price 
for  this  fight,  but  the  Niger  will  continue  to  play  its 
role and live up to its duty to ensure that never again 
will  any  terrorist  or  criminal  organization  be  able  to 
occupy or take control of any part of our territory. That 
is why the Government will not stint on its considerable 
efforts to ensure that our forces take control and that 
their  capacities  are  boosted.  We  will  never  let  up  in 
our  determination,  and  I  know  we  will  win  this  war 
because our cause is noble.
Every  year  thousands  of  migrants  throughout  the 
world put themselves in danger to seek a better life, and 
the deserts and oceans of the world have become open-
air cemeteries. Irregular migrants, victims of criminal 
smugglers with neither faith nor law, should be protected. 
The  Niger,  essentially  a  transit  country,  reaffirms  its 
determination to fight the irregular migration networks 
and  will  continue  to  do  everything  possible  to  attack 
the root causes of such migration. That is the meaning 
of the plan that our country presented at the European 
Union-African Union Valletta Summit on Migration.
I have mentioned the security situation in western 
and eastern Niger. I would like to recall here that as a 
result of those conflicts, our country, although among 
the poorest in the world, is hosting more than 200,000 
refugees,  internally  displaced  persons  and  returnees. 
For  the  Niger,  what  is  most  important  today  is  to  get 
past those emergencies so as to launch socioeconomic 
recovery  in  the  areas  affected  by  those  conflicts.  We 
need to move from humanitarian issues to development.
Turning  to  certain  international  issues,  I  recall 
that the Niger is in solidarity with the struggle of the 
Palestinian people for freedom and independence. Our 
position  remains  unswerving  support  for  the  just  and 
definitive  resolution  of  that  question,  guaranteeing 
the creation of a sovereign State of Palestine with East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
The abuses against Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar 
are unacceptable. Such serious and massive violations 
of  human  rights  must  be  punished.  The  Niger 
unequivocally condemns those atrocities.
The  Niger,  a  State  party  to  the  Paris  Agreement 
on Climate Change, will respect its commitments. We 
are  convinced  that  there  is  no  alternative  for  saving 
our  planet  and  especially  for  preserving  it  for  future 
generations.  The  Paris  Agreement  is  not  only  the 
realization of our awareness, but also proof of our shared 
responsibility  before  history.  Taking  a  step  backward 
is not possible unless one believes that the fate of the 
Earth and of humankind is not concern for everybody.
The Niger urges the United States of America and 
Cuba  to  persevere  in  the  constructive  dialogue  that 
had  begun  between  the  two  countries  until  relations 
between  the  two  are  normalized  and  the  embargo  is 
fully lifted.
The issue of disarmament is a crucial. It deserves 
special  attention  to  enhance  trust  among  States.  The 
17-29819
3/15
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
Niger strongly supports the actions undertaken by the 
United Nations with a view to bringing about general 
and complete disarmament with regard to both weapons 
of mass destruction and conventional weapons.
The  new  challenges  generated  by  globalization, 
the  transformations  that  have  affected  international 
relations for decades and the need to take into account 
new geopolitical dimensions, particularly in regard to 
Africa, require that we deal with the crucial issue of the 
reform of United Nations organs. In accordance with the 
Ezulwini Consensus, Niger calls for the composition of 
the  Security  Council  to  be  reviewed,  for  the  General 
Assembly to be revitalized and for the United Nations 
to remain a democratic Organization that enshrines the 
sovereign equality of States, not a tiered organization in 
which the powerful and the weak have different rights.
To  conclude  my  remarks  before  the  Assembly,  I 
would  like  to  reaffirm  that  at  every  opportunity  and 
before  every  challenge,  my  country,  the  Niger,  will 
always  rise  to  play  its  proper  role  to  promote  and 
defend peace, to eradicate poverty and inequality and 
to preserve our environment. We are fully aware of our 
responsibilities to change our own fate and contribute 
to making the world safe and better. We assume these 
responsibilities fully and in a determined manner.
May God bless the Niger and the United Nations.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Elvin  Nimrod,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, Legal Affairs, Carriacou and Petite Martinique 
Affairs and Local Government of Grenada.
Mr. Nimrod (Grenada): I bring warmest greetings 
from Grenada’s Prime Minister, the Honourable Keith 
Mitchell. Prime Minister Mitchell sincerely believes in 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  and  is  absent  only 
because he believes that, as Chairman of the Caribbean 
Community,  his  presence  in  the  region  allows  his 
colleague  Prime  Ministers  to  travel  to  New  York  to 
plead the cases of their hurricane-stricken countries.
Our hearts and prayers go out to all the victims in 
our Caribbean region, in Mexico and across the world 
who  are  presently  suffering  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate  change  and  natural  disasters.  Within  the  last 
few  weeks,  our  fellow  members  of  the  Organization 
of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  and  the  Caribbean  small 
States of Barbuda and the Commonwealth of Dominica 
were  ravaged  by  hurricanes  Irma  and  Maria,  which 
caused  near-total  destruction  and  the  loss  of  many 
lives.  Our  hearts  also  go  out  to  the  people  of  Cuba, 
with whom our region shares a very special friendship. 
I  implore  the  international  community  to  recognize 
without  delay  our  responsibility  to  assist  all  those 
affected by natural disasters.
I  join  those  before  me  in  congratulating  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  your  election  as  President  of  this 
international organ. I am confident in your stewardship 
and  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  cooperation  and 
support.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend 
your predecessor, Ambassador Peter Thomson of Fiji, 
for  his  able  stewardship  of  the  Assembly’s  seventy-
first session.
I  also  wish  to  thank  both  you  and  Secretary-
General  Guterres  for  your  leadership  and  willingness 
to serve as guardians of the spirit of our Charter of the 
United  Nations.  I  believe  there  is  value  in  repeating 
your  astute  and  entirely  relevant  observation  that  the 
Charter makes only five references to war, while peace 
is referenced 47 times.
Over the next few minutes, I will endeavour to offer 
Grenada’s interpretation of what it means to strive for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet, 
the theme for this session.
I would like to say a few words on climate change. 
I  am  sure  that  almost  every  speaker  here  mentioned 
something  about  climate  change,  because,  as  we  all 
know, it is a very relevant and topical subject. Certainly, 
based on recent activities in the Atlantic, we just cannot 
dispute  that  the  climate  is  changing.  In  fact,  97  per 
cent of actively publishing climate scientists agree that 
climate  change  is  due  to  human  activities.  For  those 
who question the veracity of that science, the cluster of 
extreme weather events over the past few years ought to 
suffice for sounding the alarm.
Extreme  weather  events  disproportionately  affect 
our planet’s most vulnerable, such as women, children 
and  the  elderly.  Therefore,  Grenada  advocates  that 
special attention be paid to those groups. As we assess 
the  physical  damage  caused  by  such  disasters,  let  us 
never  forget  the  psychological  toll  they  take  take 
on survivors.
We  reiterate  Grenada’s  commitment  to  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  Speaking  in  his 
capacity  as  Chair  of  the  World  Bank’s  Small  States 
Forum  in  June,  Grenada’s  Prime  Minister  lamented 
the  withdrawal  of  key  partners  from  the  Agreement. 
4/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
Therefore,  we  encourage  them  to  reconsider.  The 
Government of Grenada has adopted an ambitious Blue 
Growth agenda to take advantage of our vast maritime 
territory and its countless resources. Grenada aims to 
be the beacon of sustainable development for maritime 
States  around  the  world.  Our  relatively  small  size 
makes  it  an  interesting  and  achievable  project.  Our 
Blue  Growth  master  plan  offers  many  opportunities 
for collaboration.
The  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  has 
emphasized  the  need  to  advance  measures  to  develop 
sustainable  ocean-based  economies  in  the  Caribbean. 
The word “Caribbean” reminds us of beautiful beaches, 
such as the world-famous Grand Anse beach in Grenada. 
Our recent endeavours aim to use our maritime waters 
in a sustainable manner, governed by robust policies in 
our people’s interest.
I  previously  alluded  to  the  many  variables  that 
influence the sustainability of our planet. Small States 
such  as  Grenada  and  other  CARICOM  countries 
have  to  battle  to  maintain  our  access  to  financial 
markets.  In  March,  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF)  published  a  report  titled,  “Recent  trends  in 
correspondent banking relationships”, which highlights 
some of the challenges facing the financial institutions 
and  Governments  of  small  States.  Observing  that 
the  number  of  correspondent  banking  relationships 
has  decreased,  the  IMF  anticipates  a  negative  effect 
on  global  trade  and  economic  activity  this  year. 
Furthermore, in the specific cases of Grenada and the 
rest of CARICOM, the high cost of compliance with the 
international tax agenda was underscored at the Ninth 
General  Meeting  between  the  United  Nations  system 
and the Caribbean Community in July.
Added to the threat of lost correspondent banking 
relationships, we also have to deal with the unilateral 
and  often  unfounded  blacklisting  of  our  institutions 
as  money  launderers  and  tax  havens.  Grenada  has 
worked  tirelessly  to  sign  tax  information  exchange 
agreements  and  has  signed  14  of  those  agreements 
since  2010.  It  pains  us  as  policy-makers  when  we 
expend  our  limited  resources  to  comply  with  rules, 
only  to  face  unjust  consequences  when  we  are  quite 
evidently in compliance. There are no easy answers to 
those challenges, but I urge our partners to desist from 
draconian  approaches  to  such  matters  when  dealing 
with vulnerable small developing States such as ours.
Grenada also supports resolution 70/5, which calls 
for an end to the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba.  We  also  believe  that 
renewed dialogue may augur well for the discovery of a 
mutually acceptable solution for both parties.
Lastly,  on  finance,  I  am  proud  to  report  that 
Grenada’s  structural  adjustment  programme  has 
been  highly  commended 
locally,  regionally  and 
internationally. In May, the IMF reported that
“Grenada  has  continued  with 
steadfast 
implementation  of  reforms  and  made  progress 
toward achieving the key program goals.”
footing 
is  on  solid 
Through  the  leadership  and  wisdom  of  our  Prime 
Minister  and  the  sacrifices  of  the  Grenadian  people, 
Grenada’s  economy 
today. 
Grenada’s thriving economy is proof that the structural 
adjustments  are  not  inherently  bad.  Investment,  both 
foreign and local, is at its highest levels in recent years. 
Although  we  are  cautious  to  declare  victory,  we  are 
very confident that we are headed in the right direction.
Grenada believes that all 7 billion of our planet’s 
humans  are  entitled  to  certain  fundamental  human 
rights. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
is unambiguous. We should all be guided by article 1 of 
the Declaration, which states that all humans are born 
free and equal.
On  the  issue  of  international  security,  Grenada 
continues  to  work  with  our  international  partners 
in  the  interest  of  world  peace.  Grenada  is  active  and 
compliant numerous matters of international security. 
Grenada  views  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
with  great  trepidation  and  the  hope  that  the  conflict 
will be resolved peacefully. The proliferation of nuclear 
weapons is inherently destructive and serves no useful 
purpose  for  humankind.  Therefore,  Grenada  urges  its 
friends  and  allies  to  desist  from  all  development  and 
testing  of  such  weapons.  Each  year,  $105  billion  are 
spent on developing nuclear weapons. That amounts to 
around $12 million per hour. If we are willing to make 
the shift from destruction to construction, the people of 
Barbuda, Dominica, Cuba, Mexico and other countries 
suffering from recent disasters will be forever grateful 
to the world.
Grenada remains concerned by recent political and 
social  developments  in  Venezuela.  In  his  capacity  as 
Chair  of  CARICOM,  Grenada’s  Prime  Minister  has 
offered  CARICOM’s  help  in  facilitation  of  dialogue 
17-29819
5/15
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
the  opposition 
the  Government  and 
between 
in 
Venezuela. CARICOM’s approach must necessarily be 
impartial. CARICOM will not attempt to dictate terms to 
either side. We seek to encourage meaningful dialogue 
on  the  premise  that  the  Venezuelan  people  can  come 
together to safeguard the future of all of Venezuela. In 
the meantime, Grenada believes in the art of diplomacy 
and the principle of respect for sovereignty.
Turning to matters of health, the year 2017 marks 
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  landmark  signing  by 
CARICOM Heads of Government of the Port of Spain 
Declaration  on  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs). 
While some progress has been made in reducing NCDs, 
there is still much work left to be done. The Caribbean 
region  has  the  highest  burden  of  non-communicable 
diseases in the Americas. Therefore, we urge key allies 
to continue to partner with us as we attempt to correct 
that unfortunate reality.
Grenada has made important progress in controlling 
the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS.  Only  0.3  per  cent  of  our 
population presently lives with the disease. The work of 
Grenada’s National Infectious Disease Control Unit and 
our health-care practitioners and policymakers must be 
highly commended for their work in that regard. That 
work,  however,  is  greatly  supported  by  international 
assistance that is being depleted — as it already has been 
in  some  Caribbean  countries  —  without  foreseeable 
replenishment.
Grenada thanks the Global Fund, the United States 
President’s  Emergency  Plan  for  AIDS  Relief,  the 
Pan  American  Health  Organization  and  the  German 
Development  Bank  for  their  assistance.  I  urge  donors 
to be flexible in their relief responses. We cannot wait 
for  data  while  our  people  suffer.  The  data  will  come 
eventually,  but  in  the  meantime,  lives,  families  and 
communities are at stake.
I  would  like  to  close  with  the  assurance  that 
Grenada believes in the United Nations system. I have 
had the honour of representing the people of Grenada, 
Carriacou and Petite Martinique on several occasions 
at this noble institution. As I retire from active political 
life, I am very optimistic that the window is still open 
for  us  to  leave  a  peaceful,  habitable  and  prosperous 
planet  for  future  generations.  The  challenges  of  our 
time  are  dynamic  and  continuous,  and  we  would  be 
remiss to put anything but our planet first.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Augustine  Phillip  Mahiga,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  East  Africa,  Regional  and  International 
Cooperation of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Mr.  Mahiga  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to 
preside over deliberations of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-second session. My delegation pledges full 
support to you and your Bureau.
Allow me to convey warm fraternal greetings from 
His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Pombe  Joseph  Magufuli, 
President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  who 
wished to be here but, due to other pressing commitments 
at home, is unable to attend this session of the Assembly. 
President Magufuli has sent me to assure the Assembly 
that his Government will continue to support the United 
Nations and its noble mandate to promote global peace, 
security,  freedom  and  development.  We  also  wish  to 
extend Tanzania’s unwavering support and cooperation 
to the Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, as he 
continues to discharge his duties.
My  delegation  pays  tribute  to  your  predecessor, 
Mr.  President  —  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Peter 
Thomson  —  for  his  exemplary  leadership  during  the 
Assembly’s  seventy-first  session.  His  tireless  efforts 
in  promoting  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, as well as his dedication 
to  resolving  the  plight  of  refugees  and  migrants  and 
reviving  consultations  on  the  reforms  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  of  the  Security  Council,  will 
remain  part  of  his  legacy.  We  are  confident  that  you 
and your team will advance from where he left off, as 
you pledged in your opening statement (see A/72/PV.1).
Today,  the  world  is  facing  myriad  challenges, 
which include new and old threats such as international 
terrorism  and  other  international  crimes,  persistent 
poverty, hunger and climate change, as well as global 
inequalities  in  economic  and  social  status  among 
nations. Those challenges call for a common and urgent 
response by the entire United Nations system and the 
international community as a whole.
It is in that regard that my delegation welcomes the 
theme for this session “Focusing on people: Striving for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. 
The  theme  is  timely  and  welcomed,  as  most  of  our 
countries are adjusting their development strategies and 
plans to ensure the speedy and timely implementation 
of the Goals and targets enshrined in the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  The  striving  for  peace 
and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet should 
6/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
focus  on  ending  poverty,  promoting  economic  and 
social prosperity, addressing inequality and injustices, 
and  tackling  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change. 
That can be achieved by successfully implementing the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Cognizant of that fact, Tanzania has integrated the 
Sustainable Development Goals into the second phase 
of  our  five-year  development  plan  for  2016  to  2021, 
which  focuses  on  industrialization,  on  the  basis  of 
complementarity between the agricultural and industrial 
sectors. That plan is one of our tools for the realization 
of  our  National  Development  Vision  2025,  which 
seeks  to  bring  our  country  to  middle-income  status. 
In  collaboration  with  our  development  partners  and 
other stakeholders, we have developed frameworks for 
implementing the SDGs, which include communication 
and dissemination strategies on the SDGs to make the 
Goals  understandable  to  everyone.  Dissemination  is 
in  both  English  and  Kiswahili,  which  is  our  national 
language,  spoken  by  all  Tanzanians.  Sensitization 
workshops  on  SDGs  are  also  being  conducted  for 
regional  administrations  and 
local  Government 
authorities, so that the Goals can be mainstreamed in 
their local plans and budgets in order to directly involve 
and benefit ordinary people, who are the main focus of 
the 2030 Agenda.
Tanzania has set a target growth from an average of 
7 per cent in 2015 to 10 per cent by 2020, in order to reach 
middle-income  status  by  2025.  We  also  believe  that 
such growth will encourage efforts to promote equality 
in society by reducing the unemployment rate from the 
current 10.3 per cent to 8 per cent and will also reduce 
the  proportion  of  population  below  the  poverty  line. 
That growth can be achieved by, among other things, 
increasing employment in both rural and urban areas and 
providing financial support through soft loans to youth 
and  women.  Other  measures  include  strengthening 
small  and  medium  enterprises,  securing  fair  taxation 
and  fiscal  regimes  for  business  entities  and  restoring 
discipline  and  accountability.  Fighting  corruption, 
financial discipline and accountability in all sectors are 
the hallmarks of President Magufuli’s Government.
Climate  change  has  become  an  existential 
challenge  to  the  entire  planet  Earth.  All  parts  of  the 
world are increasingly experiencing the adverse impact 
of  climate  change,  manifested  in  persistent  droughts, 
land  degradation,  coastal  erosion,  ocean  temperature 
rise  and  extreme  weather  patterns  such  as  cyclones, 
typhoons,  hurricanes  and  floods.  In  Tanzania,  for 
instance, it is disheartening to witness the epic snows 
and glaciers of Kilimanjaro — the highest mountain in 
Africa — melting at an alarming rate.
Against that background, I would like to express my 
Government’s heartfelt sympathies and condolences to 
our brothers and sisters in the Caribbean, South Asia, 
Mexico,  Nigeria,  Sierra  Leone,  the  United  States  of 
America  and  all  around  the  world  who  have  recently 
been victims of the disastrous impact of climate change. 
Our thoughts and prayers are with those who have lost 
their lives and those who have been dispossessed and 
displaced. For all of us, this should be a wake-up call 
and a reminder that climate change has no boundaries 
and can potentially wipe out economic and development 
achievements  in  the  blink  of  an  eye.  Therefore,  the 
sooner  we  act,  the  better  chances  we  have  to  protect 
the planet Earth for the present and future generations.
It  is  fortunate  that  we  have  the  Paris  Agreement, 
which already entered into force in November 2016, to 
address this problem. To honour our joint efforts that 
gave birth to the Paris Agreement under the leadership 
of France, we should implement, in letter and spirit, all 
of its articles. Assistance to developing countries should 
go beyond mere mitigation measures and should target 
adaptation measures with built-in green technologies to 
control carbon emissions from the outset.
Violent  conflicts  continue  to  plague  the  world 
and  to  challenge  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
Security Council, which has the primary responsibility 
for  maintaining  international  peace  and  security. 
They  claim  thousands  of  lives  and  lead  to  massive 
displacements and flights of people in search of safer 
places. We need to invest more in conflict prevention, 
conflict resolution and mediation efforts by addressing 
the  root  causes,  the  precipitating  and  triggering 
factors  of  conflicts.  Peacekeeping,  peacebuilding 
and  State-building  are  essential  to  the  maintenance 
and  consolidation  of  peace  where  peace  has  been 
secured. We commend the role of the United Nations in 
spearheading those peace initiatives.
Striving for peace should be a collective endeavour 
involving  Governments,  international  organizations, 
regional blocs, non-State actors, religious groups, civil 
societies and individuals. Sustainable peace and security 
is  prerequisite  for  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
development. In that regard, we commend our men and 
women in Blue Helmets who are sacrificing their lives 
to  serve  the  heroic  cause  of  peacekeeping.  Tanzania, 
17-29819
7/15
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
with  other  countries,  has  been  contributing  troops  to 
several  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  We 
have paid a high price through the loss of peacekeepers 
serving in different missions. It is only this week that 
Tanzania  lost  a  soldier  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo following an attack by the rebels of the 
Allied Democratic Forces. We condemn that cowardly 
act in the strongest possible terms.
Nonetheless,  Tanzania 
remains  steadfast  and 
committed  to  contributing  troops  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions.  At  the  same  time,  we  urge 
the  Security  Council  to  continue  strengthening  the 
operational capability of the Force Intervention Brigade 
in the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo so that it can 
effectively deal with negative forces and asymmetrical 
warfare, which are manifesting in different war theatres 
in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Tanzania  has  maintained  its  record  as  a  peaceful 
country upholding the rule of law, democracy and other 
principles of good governance. It has been a country of 
refuge for many decades. At the same time, Tanzania has 
been actively participating in regional and international 
peace initiatives, including the ongoing Burundi peace 
process, which has been supervised by the East African 
Community,  facilitated  by  the  former  President  of 
Tanzania, Mr. Benjamin William Mkapa, and mediated 
by  His  Excellency  President  Yoweri  Museveni  of 
Uganda.  The  peace  talks  are  still  on  track,  although 
their pace is slow and halting. It is encouraging to note 
that in some parts of Burundi, the security situation has 
significantly  improved  to  permit  the  voluntary  return 
of some 12,000 refugees of the almost 250,000 refugees 
who have been in Tanzania since 2015. We appreciate 
the  partnership  we  have  had  with  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  in  protecting  and 
assisting the refugees in our country.
Tanzania  has  also  for  decades  been  receiving 
and  hosting  refugees  from  pockets  of  troubled  areas 
in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. We trust that there will be full implementation 
of  the  31  December  2016  peace  agreement,  with  the 
promise  of  timely  elections  in  that  country.  We  urge 
the  leadership  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  to  live  up  to  that  commitment  and  to  issue  an 
election calendar soon. In that connection, we urge the 
international community to extend both logistical and 
financial  support  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo so that it can complete the registration of voters 
and expeditiously carry out the planned elections.
On  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council,  there  are  two  protracted  problems 
that require decisive action. One is the issue of the self-
determination  of  the  Sahrawi  people.  With  the  return 
of Morocco into the African Union fold, expectations 
are high in Africa that negotiations on that issue, which 
is on the agenda of the Security Council, will receive 
renewed momentum and urgency.
On Palestine, we support the two-State solution — two 
States  living  side  by  side  in  peaceful  coexistence.  To 
that  end,  the  elements  of  a  viable  State  of  Palestine 
must be ensured and respected. The long-stalled peace 
process  in  the  Middle  East  must  be  rekindled  with  a 
series  of  acceptable  confidence-building  measures  by 
both sides with the support and guarantee of the United 
Nations and the international community in its entirety.
In  the  Assembly,  we  have  been  calling  for  the 
cessation  of  economic,  commercial,  fmancial  and 
other embargoes imposed on Cuba, without significant 
results. The intention of the United States to reverse the 
agreements between the two countries on normalizing 
relations  is  a  setback  to  the  progress  that  had  been 
registered and applauded by all of us in the Assembly 
and  beyond.  Tanzania  continues  to  call  for  the  total 
removal  of  all  embargoes  on  Cuba.  The  people-to-
people contact that has started between the peoples of 
both Cuba and the United States should serve as building 
blocks  for  enduring  peaceful  good-neighbourliness  in 
the spirit of dialogue and understanding.
After  the  end  of  the  Cold  War,  there  was  a  new 
dawn  and  bright  prospects  for  both  conventional 
and  nuclear  disarmament.  The  doctrine  of  nuclear 
deterrence was becoming obsolete, negotiations for the 
reduction  of  nuclear  arsenals  were  making  progress 
towards a nuclear ban treaty, including nuclear testing, 
and  some  aspirants  to  nuclear  weapons  abandoned 
their ambitions.
However, the recent developments in the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  have  shattered  these 
optimistic prospects. The world is being dragged back 
to nuclear brinkmanship. This is the most recent threat 
to international peace and security. Tanzania supports 
all relevant resolutions of the Security Council on the 
nuclear-weapons  trends  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  calls  for  de-escalation  of  the 
8/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
political warfare and propaganda, and for the renewal 
of dialogue under the auspices of the Six-Party Talks.
On the other hand, Tanzania commends the recent 
adoption  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons,  which  puts  nuclear  weapons  on  the  same 
legal  ground  as  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
We  should  all  support  the  Treaty  in  order  to  increase 
our  moral  authority  in  the  fight  against  nuclear-
weapons proliferation.
The  reforms  of  the  United  Nations  to  make  the 
Organization  more  efficient  and  relevant  in  order  to 
cope with new trends and challenges must be continuous 
and progressive. The latest initiative of the Secretary-
General  is  a  commendable  effort  that  should  have 
received  consensual  support  from  the  entire  United 
Nations  membership.  We  hope  that,  in  the  process  of 
implementing these latest reform proposals, the debates 
will be all-inclusive and progress will be made on the 
basis of consensus among the entire membership of the 
United Nations.
The  delay  in  Security  Council  reform  is  indeed 
testing  the  political  will  of  the  key  players  on  this 
serious matter, and the debate has now become routine 
and sterile. The status quo is undercutting the primary 
responsibility  of  the  Council  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Democratizing  the 
Security  Council  is  good  for  the  Council  and  for  the 
world in the twenty-first century.
In conclusion, I wish to return to the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  by  making  a  clarion 
call  to  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  to 
implement  the  goals  contained  therein,  in  measured 
and  agreed  benchmarks  and  intervals.  The  economic 
and  social  benefits  of  well-implemented  goals  will 
enhance  democracy,  freedom  and  security  at  the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels,  leaving  no 
one behind.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Mark  Anthony  Brantley,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Aviation of Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Permit  me  also  to  extend  congratulations  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session. President 
Thomson ably steered the deliberations on many pressing 
matters  during  this  past  year.  As  a  representative  of 
Fiji,  he  proved  once  again  that  small  island  nations 
continue  to  make  significant  contributions  to  matters 
of global relevance.
I also extend a warm welcome to Secretary-General 
Guterres as he assumes leadership of the Organization. 
His Excellency has come to the helm at a critical time 
in our collective history, and we are confident that his 
competence, coupled with his political and diplomatic 
experience, will enable him to chart the course of the 
Organization towards a sustainable and peaceful future 
for  all.  I  assure  His  Excellency  of  my  Government’s 
fullest support and commitment.
My  delegation  also  expresses  appreciation  to 
former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his sterling 
service and wishes him well in his future endeavours.
The  world  has  gathered  here  in  New  York  at  the 
seventy-second session of the General Assembly under 
the theme “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and 
a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. The theme 
is  comprehensive,  yet  simple;  concise,  yet  inclusive; 
and  it  encompasses  pivotal  and  pertinent  areas  for 
international  reflection  at  this  critical  juncture  in 
our history.
Permit  me 
to 
the 
begin  where 
theme 
ends — a sustainable planet. I choose to do so because 
of the experience that I and members of our Caribbean 
civilization  had  immediately  prior  to  leaving  our 
countries to attend this session of the General Assembly. 
In the space of two weeks, we braced ourselves for the 
three  hurricanes  Irma,  Jose  and  Maria.  Two  of  these, 
Irma and Maria, descended on our region as category 
5  hurricanes  and,  in  the  case  of  Irma,  as  the  most 
powerful  storm  in  recorded  history  in  the  Atlantic.  I 
pause  to  reflect  on  the  fact  that  the  hurricane  season 
of 2017 is not yet over and that the Caribbean will face 
similar threats each and every year.
Mr.  Brantley  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  I  bring 
greetings from the Government and the people of the 
Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis. I wish at the outset 
to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session 
and to assure you of my delegation’s full support as you 
carry out your duties.
In  the  aftermath,  we  were  faced  with  the  tragic 
destruction  of  life,  property  and  infrastructure  in 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Anguilla,  Saint  Barthélemy, 
Saint Martin, Sint Maarten, the British Virgin Islands, 
the United States Virgin Islands, Cuba, the Turks and 
Caicos islands, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, 
Guadeloupe  and  Dominica.  Irma  then  made  landfall 
17-29819
9/15
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
in Florida in the United States, where, like Hurricane 
Harvey  before  it  in  Texas  and  Louisiana,  millions  of 
people were subject to damage and destruction.
I  have  highlighted  the  various  countries  and 
territories  that  suffered  the  most  devastation,  but  my 
own beloved country of Saint Kitts and Nevis was not 
without injury. We, too, saw damage to our power grid, 
our  roads,  our  agriculture  and  fisheries  sector  and  to 
the homes of our people. Indeed, on 19 September, the 
day we should have been celebrating the thirty-fourth 
anniversary  of  our  independence  as  a  nation,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis  was  locked  down  under  assault  from 
Hurricane Maria.
The  carnage  in  a  wide  swath  of  the  Caribbean 
is  unimaginable.  Lives  have  been  lost,  homes  and 
infrastructure destroyed, economies reduced to tatters, 
and  years  of  development  wiped  out;  in  the  case  of 
Barbuda, an entire island was evacuated and rendered 
uninhabited and uninhabitable for the first time in 300 
years. It is worthy of note that the carnage caused by 
Hurricanes Irma and Maria took but a few days. In just 
a  few  days  and  in  many  countries  a  mere  few  hours, 
the  world  had  front-row  seats  to  the  most  horrific 
destruction ever seen in our beloved Caribbean region.
We  have  in  this  Hall  heard  the  Prime  Minister 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  speak  solemnly  of  the  utter 
destruction  of  Barbuda  (see  A/72/PV.14).  It  was 
only  today  that  we  stood  in  anguished  silence  as  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Dominica  recounted  the  near  total 
destruction of his beautiful country and the tragic loss 
of  life  (see  A/72/PV.19).  Their  first-hand  accounts 
would move even the coldest hearts to tears.
We  today  extend  our  deep  condolences  to  our 
brothers and sisters and continue to keep them in our 
prayers. But even as we do so, we also remember the 
victims  of  the  three  horrific  earthquakes  in  Mexico 
and those in Japan and New Zealand. Our thoughts and 
prayers are also with the Governments and the peoples 
of those countries.
The time has now come for the world to treat these 
phenomena not as natural disasters but as the man-made 
disasters that they are. The science is irrefutable. Our 
oceans  continue  to  get  warmer  due  to  our  continued 
abuse  of  our  planet  Earth.  Warmer  oceans  feed  and 
create  horrific  storms  such  as  Irma  and  Maria.  Now 
more than ever, we bear witness to the compelling need 
to  support  the  call  for  a  reduction  in  greenhouse-gas 
emissions  and  all  other  actions  and  behaviours  that 
aggravate the effects of climate change.
Climate  change  for  us  in  the  Caribbean  is  not  a 
matter  for  academic  rumination.  The  humanitarian 
crisis  unfolding  in  the  Caribbean  in  the  wake  of 
Hurricanes  Irma  and  Maria  is  stark  testimony  to  the 
fact  that  climate  change  is  not  only  real  but  poses  an 
existential threat to our peoples, our countries and our 
civilization. The world has deliberated and negotiated. 
We  have  made  commitments  and  signed  multiple 
agreements,  most  recently  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change, but the time for more urgent, concrete, 
tangible and collective action is now.
It  is  the  most  cruel  irony  of  our  times  that  we  in 
the  Caribbean,  who  are  least  responsible  for  climate 
change,  are  the  ones  most  disastrously  affected  by  it. 
We are not major polluters, but we bear the brunt of the 
effects  of  pollution.  In  every  sense,  small  vulnerable 
States like Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica and my own 
Saint Kitts and Nevis continue to be asked by the world 
to cash a cheque we did not write. In order to attain a 
sustainable  planet,  those  most  responsible  for  climate 
change  through  their  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and 
other environmentally harmful practices must shoulder 
the  responsibility  of  arresting  and  ameliorating  the 
consequences. We cannot continue to abuse our planet 
and expect to remain unscathed.
The people of Saint Kitts and Nevis call upon the 
global community to pledge itself to pursue renewable 
energy with greater alacrity. We must invest in better 
and stronger homes and buildings. We must grow our 
economies  to  allow  us  greater  financial  resilience 
and  flexibility.  The  people  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
and  of  our  Caribbean  deserve  and  demand  the  same 
fundamental right to life and security of our way of life 
as others anywhere else. I ask the global community to 
lend its collective voice so that together we can create 
a  glorious  symphony  for  change  —  change  that  will 
ensure a sustainable planet for all. In this regard, I call 
on the community of nations to mobilize the resources 
necessary to ensure the speedy reconstruction of those 
countries devastated by Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
My  delegation  unreservedly  condemns  the  sterile 
analysis  of  gross  domestic  product  per  capita,  which 
has  been  used  by  international  agencies  to  tell  our 
small island developing States that we are now middle- 
and  high-income  countries  and  therefore  locked  out 
of  accessing  development  assistance  or  affordable 
10/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
financing. It is a travesty and a tragedy for the world 
community  to  witness  such  destruction  caused  by 
forces entirely outside the control of Caribbean nations 
and  then  refuse  to  allow  those  very  nations  access  to 
the  resources  necessary  to  rebuild.  There  has  to  be  a 
more sensible and just model that takes into account the 
special vulnerability of small island States.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  therefore  joins  others  in 
demanding  that  a  vulnerability  index  be  developed 
as  part  of  the  matrix  for  accessing  development 
assistance. We of the Caribbean, already caught in the 
debt trap, cannot be forced to borrow commercially at 
high interest rates to rebuild destroyed lives after each 
disaster. This is and must be a moral imperative for us 
all in the wake of the destruction seen in the Caribbean.
And rebuild we must. Countries such as Dominica 
have no safe zones or other geographic areas to which 
populations can be relocated. A hurricane of the scale of 
Irma and Maria devastates entire countries. We of the 
Caribbean are a proud and resilient people. The world 
must not stand by and allow the evils of climate change 
to force Caribbean people to become climate refugees. 
We  must  rebuild,  and  we  require  the  community  of 
nations to partner with us in this rebuilding effort.
In the fight against the disastrous effects of climate 
change,  allow  me  to  commend  the  work  of  many 
international  agencies  and  organizations,  as  well  as 
non-governmental  actors.  My  country  is  especially 
heartened  by  the  work  being  undertaken  by  the 
Commonwealth and its leadership. It follows that if we 
are  to  achieve  a  sustainable  planet,  it  requires  an  all-
hands-on-deck  approach.  From  the  onset,  there  must 
be buy-in from all stakeholders. No one should be left 
out, and therefore this calls for inclusiveness, unity and 
appreciation of the input and contributions that all can 
make to achieving the world we want.
to 
the 
This  brings  me 
first  part  of  our 
theme — focusing on people. There can be no debate 
that  our  people  are  our  primary  resource.  It  is  no 
marvel,  therefore,  that  Governments  allocate  a  large 
percentage of their budgets to developing their human 
capital and expend great effort to ensure that they meet 
the basic needs of their populace. Governments that fail 
to provide for their people and that ill-treat, abuse and 
oppress their people must be rightly ostracized by the 
international community.
Our world comprises all kinds of people, but I wish 
to highlight the youth — a sector of all our populations 
on which the global community must increase its focus. 
I  commend  the  United  Nations  on  its  unflinching 
efforts  to  draw  attention  to  our  youth.  Indeed,  it  was 
more than two decades ago that the General Assembly 
adopted the World Programme of Action for Youth to 
the Year 2000 and Beyond.
Young people constitute 18 per cent of the global 
population.  Young  people  and  children 
together 
account for nearly 40 per cent of the world’s population. 
Young  people  are  not  just  our  future;  they  are  our 
present. Globally, Governments must do all they can to 
provide institutions and opportunities for learning and 
development,  create  employment  and  prepare  young 
people  for  and  steer  them  towards  entrepreneurial 
endeavours.  But  Governments  cannot  do  it  alone.  We 
therefore  use  this  forum  to  call  upon  the  business 
community,  as  well  as  non-governmental  agencies 
and  actors,  to  provide  our  young  people  with  viable 
options and opportunities for gainful employment and 
social and economic advancement. We cannot speak of 
attaining the Sustainable Development Goals without a 
focus on our youth.
A  vital  element  of  a  sustainable  planet  is  peace. 
It  behoves  us  all,  nations  great  and  small,  to  work 
towards  the  achievement  of  that  essential  universal 
value.  Regrettably,  while  in  some  countries  citizens 
are  forced  to  engage  in  a  daily  struggle  for  survival, 
braving the scorching sun and bitter cold to labour for 
less  than  $1  per  day,  other  countries  are  expending 
billions  of  dollars  on  developing  weapons  of  war 
and  mass  destruction.  While  some  Governments  are 
allocating large sums to secure a future for their women 
and young people, others are investing in tools of war. 
While the budgets alone of some Governments will be 
inadequate  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  others  are  using  multiple  times  those  budgets 
in  developing  nuclear  warheads.  In  order  to  attain  a 
sustainable planet, our priorities must be synchronized, 
harmonized  and  synergized.  Our  goal  must  be  the 
preservation and conservation not only of our natural 
resources, but also of our human resources.
My delegation condemns unreservedly the actions 
that  have  led  to  heightened  tensions  on  the  Korean 
peninsula  and  calls  on  all  countries  to  respect  and 
honour their solemn commitments under international 
law.  We  condemn  all  actions  that  encourage  violence 
and  disrupt  peace.  There  can  be  no  place  in  today’s 
world  for  war  and  violence.  We  therefore  join  the 
17-29819
11/15
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
international community in demanding diplomacy and 
dialogue instead of sabre-rattling and warmongering.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  stands  proudly  with  our 
Caribbean  and  Latin  American  neighbours  as  a  zone 
of  peace  and  exhorts  all  members  of  the  community 
of  nations  to  expend  every  effort  to  create  and 
promote peace.
The  theme  of  the  current  session  makes  a  clarion 
call  not  only  to  strive  for  peace,  but  also  to  strive 
for  a  decent  life  for  all.  No  boy,  no  girl,  no  man,  no 
woman, no person should be left behind. We must work 
together to reduce poverty and hunger, promote justice 
and equality, and ensure that our people have access to 
health  care  and  economic  opportunity.  In  that  global 
effort, we must be inclusive and each and every country 
must be allowed to play its part. No one nation can do 
it alone. Human suffering anywhere is human suffering 
everywhere. We must build partnerships and ensure the 
contribution of all the populations of our planet Earth. 
All must be allowed to sit at the table of brotherhood and 
contribute to finding lasting solutions to the problems 
that we face.
in 
In that regard, we call on the international community 
yet again to look at our dear friend, Taiwan — a modern 
country of 23 million people that has had tremendous 
successes 
technology,  agriculture,  health,  and 
renewable  energy;  a  country  that  is  a  model  of  peace 
and  security.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  experienced 
first-hand  the  benefits  of  partnership  with  Taiwan. 
There is much that it can offer, and we lose collectively 
when we seek to isolate and prevent our fellow nations 
from having a seat at the international table. Saint Kitts 
and  Nevis  continues  its  unwavering  support  for  the 
Government and the people of the Republic of China on 
Taiwan to be included in the United Nations and other 
international agencies. There is much that we can learn 
from Taiwan, and we can no longer afford to ignore the 
voices of its 23 million people.
In  equal  measure,  we  call  yet  again  for  the 
lifting  of  the  more  than  50-year  embargo  against  our 
Caribbean sister Cuba. The Cuban people are a noble 
people who have demonstrated their resilience despite 
insurmountable  odds.  Their  leadership  in  health  and 
humanitarian  assistance  to  Africa,  the  Caribbean  and 
Latin  America  is  well  known.  The  Cuban  people  ask 
only  to  be  given  a  fair  chance  to  live  their  lives  in 
dignity and peace.
In  closing,  I  acknowledge  that  the  task  ahead  of 
navigating the many complex issues of the international 
community will not be easy. However, we remain firm 
believers  in  collective  strength  and  collective  effort. 
The journey to a sustainable planet and a future for all is 
attainable. Throughout history, we have achieved more 
together  than  we  have  ever  achieved  alone.  Whether 
we  are  small 
land-locked,  mountainous, 
desert  or  ice-capped  States;  whether  we  are  super-
Powers or powerless, we are all better and the United 
Nations becomes a better Organization when we work 
together.  Alone  we  can  do  little,  but  together  we  can 
achieve much.
islands; 
The challenges that we face globally — from climate 
change to refugees to war and violence — require urgent 
action now. The world does not have the luxury of time. 
We have talked. We have debated. We have postulated 
and hypothesized. We have studied and analysed. We 
must now act. In that regard, I can find no more elegant 
prose than that of American civil-rights leader, Martin 
Luther King, Jr., who said:
“We are now faced with the fact that tomorrow 
is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency 
of  now.  In  this  unfolding  conundrum  of  life  and 
history, there is such a thing as being too late. This 
is no time for apathy or complacency. This is a time 
for vigorous and positive action.”
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate for this meeting.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind 
members  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and to five minutes for the second, and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Al-Khalifa (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like to speak in exercise of the right of reply in response 
to  the  statements  delivered  by  the  representatives  of 
Saudi Arabia and Bahrain.
Both  delegations  accused  Qatar  of  terrorism. 
Qatar  has  an  excellent  record  in  counter-terrorism 
and ranks high in that regard. Such allegations allude 
to  a  link  between  Qatar  and  terrorism.  Those  claims 
are false, baseless and part of the unlawful campaign 
against  Qatar  that  started  with  hacking  and  piracy. 
Other Member States took similar steps against Qatar 
and resorted to religious rhetoric to back their claims. 
12/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
Those countries are now frustrated and use commercial 
means to pressure Qatar.
In  response  to  the  statement  of  Saudi  Arabia,  I 
affirm  that  the  State  of  Qatar  has  spared  no  effort  in 
strengthening international action against terrorism. We 
are  a  principled  member  of  various  counter-terrorism 
forums  and  coalitions,  including  the  Global  Coalition 
against  Da’esh  and  the  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Forum. Qatar participated in a summit between Islamic 
countries  and  the  United  States  of  America  and  was 
among  the  first  countries  to  implement  the  outcomes 
of  that  summit.  We  have  also  signed  a  memorandum 
of  understanding  with  the  United  States  to  stop 
funding terrorism.
We  tell  those  countries  that  accuse  Qatar  of 
supporting  terrorism  that  they  ought  to  follow  our 
example.  The  State  of  Qatar  has  fully  implemented 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  Our  record 
has  been  commended  in  a  number  of  United  Nations 
reports,  which  stress  the  constructive  role  that  Qatar 
is playing to support the United Nations in sustaining 
peace  and  providing  humanitarian  and  development 
assistance, which promotes stability and contributes to 
eradicating terrorism.
The  statement  delivered  by  the  representative 
of  Bahrain  included  a  number  of  contradictions. 
It  is  truly  surprising  to  hear  the  representative  of 
Bahrain,  who  used  to  commend  Qatar,  now  turn  to 
criticizing it. Bahrain’s experience affects the stability 
of  the  entire  region.  We  reject  the  claims  made  in 
Bahrain’s statement, which are refuted by our excellent 
record and our commitment to the Charter of the United 
Nations and stability in our region.
It is very surprising to hear Bahrain accuse us of 
terrorism. We call on the Kingdom of Bahrain to work 
tirelessly  to  overcome  its  own  internal  problems.  To 
that end, it should respect human rights and implement 
United Nations resolutions. It should also refrain from 
marginalizing sectors of its own population and flouting 
the rule of law. It needs to be very objective in dealing 
with  its  own  internal  problems.  Fabricating  problems 
and conflict with the State of Qatar to obscure its own 
domestic problems will not yield positive results.
The 
illegal  steps 
taken  against  Qatar  are 
unacceptable. Is it conceivable or reasonable to prevent 
students  from  attending  to  their  studies?  Is  that  not 
a  violation  of  their  human  rights?  The  same  might 
be  asked  of  legislation  that  threatens  citizens  with 
punishment simply for expressing their sympathy with 
Qatar? Such rhetoric fuels the campaign against Qatar. 
How  can  counter-terrorism  succeed  when  we  fuel 
such rhetoric?
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): I take the floor to exercise 
Pakistan’s right of reply to a statement in the general 
debate earlier today (A/72/PV.19) in which the Foreign 
Minister  of  India  indulged  in  an  orgy  of  slander 
against  my  country.  Her  comments  towards  Pakistan 
betrayed the hostility of the Indian leadership towards 
Pakistan — hostility that we have endured for 70 long 
years.  Repeating  falsehoods  year  after  year  does  not 
and cannot conceal or alter the truth.
But 
in  her  vitriol,  India’s  Foreign  Minister 
deliberately  ignored  the  core  issue  of  Jammu  and 
Kashmir. Let me be clear. Jammu and Kashmir is not 
a part of India. It is recognized by the United Nations 
and the international community as disputed territory. 
I invite the Assembly and the Indian Foreign Minister 
to look at the United Nations maps. Therefore, India’s 
military occupation of the state is illegal. The Security 
Council has, in more than a dozen resolutions, decided 
that the dispute must be resolved by enabling the people 
of Jammu and Kashmir to determine their own destiny 
through a United Nations-supervised plebiscite.
India accepted these United Nations resolutions, but 
has  avoided  implementing  them  through  obfuscation, 
diversion,  deceit  and  aggression. 
India’s  brutal 
occupation  of  Kashmir  has  killed  more  than  100,000 
innocent  Kashmiri  children,  women  and  men.  Today 
this  campaign  of  brutality  continues,  including  the 
shooting  and  blinding  of  innocent  Kashmiri  children 
with pellet guns. Yet every day these Kashmiri children, 
women  and  youth  come  out  on  the  streets  to  demand 
that India get out of occupied Kashmir.
India cannot hide behind semantics. Any inter-State 
dispute like that surrounding Kashmir is by definition 
an  international  dispute.  If  the  parties  fail  to  resolve 
a  dispute,  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  have  not  only  the  right  but  the  obligation 
to  intervene  and  help  resolve  the  dispute.  In  the  case 
of  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  that  obligation  is  explicit 
since the Security Council has been involved with this 
dispute  since  its  very  inception  and  has  prescribed 
very specifically and precisely how the dispute should 
be resolved.
Security  Council  resolutions  do  not  lapse  with 
time,  nor  are  they  “overtaken”,  as  the  Indian  Foreign 
17-29819
13/15
A/72/PV.22 
23/09/2017
Minister put it. Law has no expiry date and morality has 
no sell-by date. India’s posture is that of the predator. 
It cannot escape its legal and moral obligation to abide 
by the resolutions of the Security Council. Any other 
interpretation will open the door to the logic of force in 
international relations.
India  now  also  refuses  a  bilateral  dialogue  with 
Pakistan,  whether  composite  or  comprehensive.  The 
condition  it  imposes  that  first  there  must  be  an  end 
to  violence  begs  the  question.  Violence  emanates 
first  and  foremost  from  India’s  occupation  and  brutal 
suppression  of  the  people  of  Kashmir.  Under  the 
circumstances,  my  Prime  Minister  has  proposed  that 
the Secretary-General appoint a special representative 
or special envoy, as several of his predecessors did, to 
promote  the  implementation  of  relevant  provisions  of 
the Security Council resolutions.
At the same time, the United Nations should also 
take  steps  to  investigate  India’s  ongoing  and  massive 
violations of human rights in Kashmir and the impunity 
enjoyed  by  India’s  security  forces,  lift  the  draconian 
emergency  laws  and  punish  those  responsible  for  the 
war crimes and genocide in Kashmir. If the international 
community  wishes  to  avoid  a  dangerous  escalation 
between India and Pakistan, it must call on India to halt 
its provocations and aggressive actions. It must end the 
ceasefire violations along the Line of Control. It must 
halt its sponsorship of terrorist groups inside Pakistan.
India’s  Foreign  Minister  has  spoken  much  about 
terrorism.  The  United  Nations  should  actually  define 
terrorism,  and  in  that  definition  we  should  include 
State terrorism. The Indian National Security Advisor 
has boasted how this State terrorism is being sponsored 
by India’s spy agencies in my country, in what he has 
called a “double-squeeze strategy”.
Pakistan  has  in  its  custody  an  Indian  spy  and 
intelligence  officer,  Kulbhushan  Jadhav,  who  has 
confessed to India’s support of terrorist activities in my 
country.  In  fact,  India  has  considerable  experience  in 
the State sponsorship of terrorism in our region. It has 
sponsored  and  perpetrated  terrorism  and  aggression 
against  all  its  neighbours,  creating  terrorist  groups, 
destabilizing  and  blockading  neighbours  to  do  its 
strategic building, and sponsoring subversion, sabotage 
and  terrorism  in  various  parts  of  Pakistan.  All  this 
establishes the fact that India is the mother of terrorism 
in South Asia.
India’s  proclivity  for  violence  is  also  no  secret. 
In  the  70  years  since  its  independence,  India  has 
been  engaged  in  at  least  a  dozen-plus  instances  of 
the use of force and continues to face 17 insurgencies 
in  its  own  land.  It  has  fought  a  war  with  or  within 
each  of  its  neighbours.  The  Indian  Foreign  Minister 
sought to denigrate my country’s founding father, the 
Quaid-e-Azam  Muhammad  Ali  Jinnah.  All  I  can  say 
about  India’s  current  political  luminaries  is  that  they 
belong  to  a  political  organization  that  has  the  blood 
of  thousands  of  Muslims  of  Gujarat  on  their  hands. 
Today, that so-called democracy is the world’s largest 
hypocrisy. That is the face of India’s democracy.
India  is  ruled  by  a  Government  in  which  a 
racist  and  fascist  ideology  is  firmly  embedded.  The 
leadership  of  this  Government  emanates  from  the 
Rashtriya  Swayamsevak  Sang,  the  same  extremist 
group accused of assassinating Mahatma Gandhi. It is 
a Government that has appointed a fanatic as the Chief 
Minister of India’s largest state, whose rallying cry to 
his mobs was: “If they kill even one Hindu, we will kill 
100 Muslims”. It is a Government that has allowed the 
lynching of Muslims.
All  this  is  amply  documented  by  international 
human  rights  organizations.  Indeed,  as  one  of  India’s 
most famous contemporary authors recently said,
“These  horrific  murders  are  only  a  symptom 
of a deeper malaise. Life is hell for the living too. 
Whole populations — millions of Dalits, Adivasis, 
Muslims  and  Christians  —  are  being  forced  to 
live in terror, unsure of when and from where the 
assault will come”, [and that] “[m]uch of what is in 
the air in India now is pure terror, in Kashmir, in 
other places”.
The  Indian  Foreign  Minister  spoke  about  human 
rights, so let me ask: who is using pellet guns that are 
blinding  unarmed  protesters,  including  children  and 
infants,  in  occupied  Kashmir?  Who  is  violating  the 
fundamental  rights,  not  only  of  the  brave  people  of 
Kashmir, but of hundreds of millions of Indians? Who 
is  using  rape  as  an  instrument  of  terror  and  of  State 
policy to crush a popular and indigenous movement in 
the occupied state of Jammu and Kashmir?
In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  Pakistan  remains 
open  to  resuming  a  comprehensive  dialogue  with 
India to address all outstanding issues, especially that 
of  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  and  to  discuss  measures  to 
maintain  peace  and  security.  But  this  dialogue  must 
14/15 
17-29819
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.22
be  accompanied  by  an  end  to  India’s  campaign  of 
subversion and State-sponsored terrorism in Pakistan.
Ms.  Mohamed  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
response  to  the  Qatari  allegations,  I  assert  that  the 
Kingdom of Bahrain and its brethren in Saudi Arabia, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Egypt  —  supported 
by  several  other  countries  —  have  exercised  their 
sovereign  right,  in  accordance  with  international  law, 
to  impose  measures  against  Qatar,  which  violated  an 
accord that, when violated in part, is considered to have 
been violated as a whole. The Kingdom of Bahrain has 
evidence that the State of Qatar violated that agreement 
and  interfered  in  the  internal  affairs  of  the  Kingdom 
in  order  to  foment  chaos  and  overturn  our  domestic 
rulings.  Qatar  is  also  threatening  the  social  fabric 
of  Bahrain  by  according  Qatari  nationality  to  many 
Bahraini families.
Since  the  boycott  was  first  imposed  by  our  four 
countries,  Qatar  has  spread  false  allegations  that  we 
are violating the human rights of our citizens, although 
Qatar  knows  that  the  four  countries,  including  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  have  taken  measures  to  ensure 
that all humanitarian cases — whether with respect to 
education, health care or any other urgent matter — are 
given  due  consideration.  The  measures  taken  by  our 
four countries are sovereign matters. Any country has 
the right to do so under international law.
If we are to talk about contradictions, Qatar refutes 
its own allegations about the boycott by claiming that 
it is not impacted thereby, that it is enjoying economic 
growth and other similar claims. That is Qatar’s right, 
but  it  should  not  behave  one  way  and  then  act  in  an 
entirely contradictory fashion. Qatar is seeking to exploit 
international forums for its own political interests.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  has  suffered  a  great 
deal  under  the  policies  of  Qatar,  which  spurns  good-
neighbourliness  despite  our  family  ties.  However,  the 
State  of  Qatar  has  sought  and  continues  to  seek  to 
foment chaos and instability in Bahrain by supporting 
militias and terrorist groups, either through espionage, 
financing or its media, which it has exploited especially 
since 2011 in order to spread false news and create chaos 
in Bahrain through more than 800 falsified broadcasts. 
It is hiding behind freedom of expression and freedom 
of the media, well aware that the Kingdom of Bahrain 
has a long-standing record of respect for freedom of the 
media. We have a democratic system and a fully elected 
Parliament that, thanks to recent amendments, is able 
to carry out all its functions.
No such achievements exist in the State of Qatar. 
Its Constitution is riddled with flaws. It does not have a 
Parliament. We are not trying to compare Bahrain and 
Qatar. This is an internal affair and, unlike Qatar, we do 
not interfere in the internal affairs of others. We wish 
the people of Qatar well, but we believe that reform is 
part of the democratic process. We remind our brethren 
in Qatar that it is easy to accuse others, but they should 
first look to themselves before looking at others.
Mr.  Al-Khalifa  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 
regret that Bahrain has attacked Qatar. Its allegations 
against us are false. Unjust measures have been taken 
against Qatar, in violation of human rights, freedom of 
expression and the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, 
which is based on respect for human rights. One cannot 
counter terrorism without respecting human rights.
We  have  been  accused  of  funding  terrorism,  but 
there  is  no  substantiated  evidence  for  these  claims. 
These  four  countries  have  provided  no  evidence 
because there is no such evidence. Qatar is better than 
all  four  countries  combined  in  the  field  of  counter-
terrorism. The boycott, of which Bahrain is a part, has 
led to violations of human rights, such as the separation 
of  families.  Some  countries  have  even  enacted  laws 
to  prosecute  citizens  who  express  their  sympathy 
for Qatar.
Any  allegation  that  Qatar  has  intervened  and 
interfered in the internal affairs of these four countries 
is false and intended to obscure the fact that those four 
countries  are  interfering  in  our  internal  affairs  and 
have  launched  campaigns  that  threaten  the  unity  of 
the  Qatari  people.  Against  this  background,  we  have 
advised these four countries to pay greater attention to 
their own unity and their own respect for human rights. 
Respect for human rights is the only guarantee for the 
stability  of  countries.  To  ensure  the  stability  of  the 
Gulf, we need cooperation among the Gulf States.
As we are not able to speak a third time in exercise 
of the right of reply, we shall submit further comments 
in writing.
The meeting rose at 8 p.m.
17-29819
15/15
