United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
5th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 19 September 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Laaksonen 
(Finland), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Address by Mr. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, President 
of the Republic of Mali
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of Mali.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita, 
President of the Republic of Mali, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
in  French):  At 
President  Keita  (spoke 
the 
outset,  on  behalf  of  Mali,  allow  me  to  extend  warm 
congratulations to the President on his election to guide 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I 
also commend the outstanding work of his predecessor, 
Ambassador  Peter  Thomson.  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  Organization,  my  dear 
friend  António  Guterres,  for  his  leadership,  vision 
and commitment to the common values, purposes and 
principles of the United Nations.
Mali  welcomes  the  choice  of  the  theme  of  the 
present  session  —  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving 
for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet” — which is both timely and relevant in a world 
that is confronted with the various challenges to peace, 
security and the considerable efforts needed to improve 
the  living  conditions  of  our  populations.  The  highest 
priority of our joint efforts at present is not the effective 
preservation  of  our  planet,  which  is  of  course  in  our 
best  interests,  but,  more  urgently,  the  interest  of  our 
future generations.
Given  those  numerous  challenges,  from  which 
no  one  —  not  even  my  country,  Mali  —  has  been 
spared,  since  assuming  my  post  as  head  of  State,  I 
have consistently devoted myself to working to quickly 
bringing  peace  and  security  for  my  people  to  an 
acceptable  level,  in  creating  genuine  conditions  for  a 
decent life for the benefit of the Malian people and in 
improving our living environment. Since my election in 
2013, I have firmly dedicated myself to the search for 
a negotiated political solution to the internal dimension 
of the Malian crisis.
After  eight  long  months  of  intense  and  steadfast 
negotiations  in  Algiers  —  and,  once  again,  I  would 
like  to  say  how  much  we  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
our  Algerian  brothers,  especially  those  of  President 
Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,  and  we  thank  them  for  the 
welcome  and  the  hospitality  we  received  in  that 
wonderful  white  city  —  the  Agreement  on  Peace  and 
Reconciliation  in  Mali  was  concluded.  Today  Mali  is 
pleased with the conditions that were thus created for 
its future. The principal merit of the Agreement would 
have certainly been to immediately restore confidence 
among  the  Malian  parties  —  no  more  belligerence. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29275 (E)
*1729275*
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
With the implementation of the Agreement, the general 
situation of the country has significantly improved.
I  shall  spare  the  Assembly  the  long  list  of  the 
measures and concrete actions taken by the Government 
of Mali to implement the Agreement in strict accordance 
with  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  the  commitments  we 
have  made.  As  an  example,  I  would  simply  point  out 
that,  as  of  today,  what  we  call  in  Mali  the  interim 
authorities and transitional colleges — two key elements 
of the Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation — are 
operational in the five regions of northern Mali.
In  the  same  vein,  I  am  particularly  pleased  with 
the  current  efforts  aimed  at  the  definitive  return  of 
the  Malian  administration  to  Kidal.  That  fortunate 
prospect  was  made  possible  by  the  efforts  of  the 
Malians  themselves,  aided  by  international  mediation 
and the support of the United Nations Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA). 
At the same time, the Government, under my authority, 
is  working  to  stabilize  the  security  situation  in  the 
central regions of the country, which today are a source 
of  great  concern  for  us  and  the  whole  country.  That 
particular situation has become acute and urgent after 
the  Algiers  talks,  which  is  to  say  that  there  is  a  new 
front  to  be  secured  and  pacified.  Important  measures 
have therefore been taken and are currently under way, 
with very encouraging results.
Those  results  undoubtedly  speak  of  the  common 
will  of  Malian  men  and  women  to  achieve  peace, 
reconciliation  and  the  re-establishment  of  genuine 
conditions for a good life together. We also owe those 
results to the multifaceted support of the men and women 
of the United Nations system in Mali. They have paid 
a  high  price  to  help  us,  otherwise  maintaining  peace 
would  have  been  bloody.  That  is  why  I  would  like  to 
commend the excellent work of the civilian and military 
staff  of  MINUSMA,  who  work  under  conditions  that 
I  know  are  difficult  and  often  dangerous.  From  this 
rostrum, I would like to pay tribute to the memory of all 
of the victims, both civilian and military, Malian and 
foreign, who have fallen in the field of honour in Mali.
the 
implementation of the Agreement, which have resulted 
in long delays, procrastination and postponements — all 
of which have generated immense impatience in national 
opinion and among international community.
There  have  been  numerous  obstacles 
to 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
our  deep  appreciation  to  the  Security  Council  for  the 
adoption of resolution 2364 (2017), which renewed the 
mandate of MINUSMA. In addition, I am particularly 
pleased by the adoption, on 5 September, of resolution 
2374 (2017), which establishes the legal framework for a 
sanctions regime against perpetrators of acts impeding 
the  implementation  of  the  Agreement  on  Peace  and 
Reconciliation in Mali. Those two resolutions are aimed 
at  the  effective  resolution  of  the  types  of  difficulties 
underlying  the  implementation  of  the  Agreement. 
They  also  reflect  the  steadfast  determination  of  my 
Government  to  tirelessly  continue  in  its  political  and 
institutional  efforts  for  firmness  and  diligence  in  the 
processes related to the effectiveness of the Agreement.
The deterioration of the security situation in Mali 
has had a negative impact on the implementation of the 
Agreement on Peace and Reconciliation. Insecurity in 
Mali and the Sahel is a source of great concern for my 
country  and  for  our  neighbours.  The  situation  poses, 
in all respects, a real threat to international peace and 
security. It is marked by terrorism, violent extremism 
and  other  forms  of  organized  transnational  crime, 
including trafficking in drugs, weapons and people.
The  Sahel  is  swarming  with  organized-crime 
groups.  They  have  access  to  substantial  material, 
financial  and  logistical  resources  and  pose  serious 
challenges to the individual functioning institutions and 
organizations of all our States. They sow death through 
their  criminal  and  asymmetrical  attacks.  Working  to 
conquer  areas  only  partially  under  our  sovereignty, 
they find themselves free to maintain and spread their 
criminal  activities,  thereby  seriously  threatening  the 
foundations, and even the very existence, of our States.
No single country by itself would be able to confront 
those cross-border threats. That was the entire rationale 
behind the establishment of the Group of Five for the 
Sahel (G-5 Sahel) by Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania, 
the  Niger  and  Chad  so  as  to  confront  together  shared 
challenges related to the security and the development 
of our countries. From its founding, in February 2014, 
to  the  present,  our  organization  —  which  I  have  the 
privilege  of  chairing  in  2017  and  2018  —  has  made 
tremendous progress. In particular, it has put in place 
the force conjointe du  G-5 Sahel to combat terrorism, 
transnational  organized  crime  and  the  trafficking  of 
migrants.
Although 
the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2359 (2017) was certainly an important step, 
we would have preferred it to have been adopted under 
2/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, which 
would  have  ensured  its  predictable  and  sustainable 
funding,  including  through  the  United  Nations,  in 
accordance  with  the  decision  by  the  African  Union 
Peace and Security Council of 13 April.
The  force  represents  the  collective  resolve  of  our 
States to work together to secure and develop the region 
that we share, with the support of our partners — whom 
I commend here for their constant support at our side. 
Today we are working tirelessly towards the effective 
operationalization  and  functioning  of  the  force,  with 
the very much appreciated support of friendly countries 
and partner organizations.
The  first  operations  of  the  force  will,  we  hope, 
begin in October. I can assure the Assembly that those 
operations will be carried out in strict compliance with 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law.  A 
civilian  mechanism  will  be  deployed  within  the  force 
so as to monitor that issue, which is so important to us, 
because the success of the force depends on the full and 
continued support of our people.
I  would  nevertheless  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  some  of  the  challenges  that  characterize 
the  operationalization  and  maintenance  of  the  force. 
Among  them,  mobilizing  comprehensive  funding  for 
the force figures prominently. I would therefore like to 
take this opportunity to invite all friendly countries and 
international partner organizations to the international 
contribution  planning  conference  for  the  force  to  be 
held in Brussels in December. I would like to give my 
assurance that resources allocated to the force will be 
managed with total transparency. Moreover, we remain 
open  to  any  support  from  our  partners  that  can  help 
ensure better management of the resources of the force 
conjointe.
I would also like to add, for the benefit of the friendly 
countries and international organizations that are ready 
to help us, that the Joint Force is in the public interest 
of  all.  Although  we  are  going  through  a  transitional 
phase today, the battle that we are waging in the Sahel 
is akin to a dam. If that dam were to give, that would 
be  a  misfortune  for  the  civilized  world,  which  shares 
our values. Therefore, in areas that involve equipping 
battalions  and  reinforcing  logistics  resources,  as  well 
as communications, emergency medical evacuation and 
combating the use of improvised explosive devices, we 
need the world’s help.
Alongside  security  issues,  the  G-5  Sahel  places 
high  priority  on  issues  involving  development,  the 
resilience  of  populations,  governance  and  decent  jobs 
for the youth of our countries, among others. I would 
like to call on members of the General Assembly and the 
international community to provide sustained support 
to the G-5 Sahel Priority Investment Programme.
Implementing the Sustainable Development Goals 
remains  a  priority  for  Mali.  In  that  context,  in  2016, 
the  Government  adopted  its  strategic  framework  for 
economic  recovery  and  sustainable  development  for 
the  period  from  2016  to  2018.  Its  overall  goal  is  to 
promote  inclusive  and  sustainable  development,  with 
the aim of reducing poverty and inequalities in a united 
and peaceful Mali, while building on the potential and 
capacity  for  resilience,  with  a  view  to  reaching  the 
Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
The macroeconomic framework of our country has 
improved, and numerous indicators show encouraging 
developments, including robust economic growth with 
an annual average of approximately 6 per cent, and a 
substantial improvement in the business environment. 
This  was  noted  by  the  Arab  Maghreb  Union.  In  that 
context,  Mali  will  hold  the  Invest  in  Mali  Forum  on 
7 and 8 December in Bamako, and we invite friendly 
countries and international organizations to come and 
bet on Mali.
As a Sahelian country with an agro-sylvo-pastoral 
system, Mali remains deeply concerned about climate 
change, which is one of the major challenges involving 
the  survival  and  development  of  humankind.  That  is 
why I would like to reiterate Mali’s commitment to the 
effective  implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change,  to  which  it  is  party.  In  that  regard, 
the international community must remain committed to 
its implementation so as to preserve the ecosystem for 
present and future generations.
The world continues to face numerous public health 
challenges,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis 
and  Ebola.  While  commending  the  progress  made  in 
the fight against those pandemics, we must strengthen 
international  efforts  so  as  to  achieve  the  shared  goal 
of  eradicating  those  diseases.  We  must  redouble  our 
vigilance and efforts so as to implement, in particular, 
the Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS: On the Fast 
Track to Accelerating the Fight against HIV and to End 
the  AIDS  Epidemic  by  2030,  which  we,  the  world’s 
leaders, adopted in New York in June 2016.
17-29275
3/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
Concerning  migration  issues,  Mali  fully  supports 
the  ongoing  process  in  the  Organization  aimed  at  the 
adoption in 2018 of a global compact for safe, orderly 
and regular migration. Together we must seek suitable 
solutions  to  the  human  tragedy  taking  place  in  the 
Mediterranean and the desert, which leaves no human 
conscience indifferent and leads to thousands of deaths, 
including those of women and children. That maritime 
cemetery  represents  a  scandal  for  the  twenty-first 
century, and it must stop.
Mali is at one and the same time a country of origin, 
transit and destination for migrants. We therefore have 
established  a  national  migration  policy  with  a  view 
to  better  overseeing  the  phenomenon.  Mali  has  also 
established  national  mechanisms  for  better  managing 
migration issues.
I take this opportunity to commend the substantial 
contribution  of  the  Malian  diaspora  to  the  economic, 
scientific, cultural and social development of Mali. The 
diaspora constitutes both our pride and our wealth.
The Government and the people of Mali continue 
to pay close attention to the situation in Africa and the 
rest of the world. We are therefore concerned about the 
situation in Libya, which continues to have a negative 
impact  on  the  Sahel  region.  We  call  on  all  Libyan 
stakeholders  to  encourage  the  search  for  peaceful 
solutions with a view to achieving a lasting settlement 
of the crisis.
Mali pays equal attention to the ongoing situation in 
the Middle East, in particular as concerns the impasse 
in  negotiations  surrounding  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict.  Mali  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  brotherly 
Palestinian people in their legitimate struggle to regain 
their inalienable rights and calls for the resumption of 
negotiations aimed at a two-State solution, with Israel 
and Palestine living side by side in peace and security 
in a calm Middle East.
Similarly, we are concerned about the unprecedented 
increase in terrorism, violent extremism and religious 
intolerance  in  the  world.  To  contain  those  global 
threats, which spare no country, we need to strengthen 
international and regional cooperation, foster a fruitful, 
ongoing  dialogue  and  combat  the  vulnerabilities  that 
expose  our  communities  to  extremist  ideology.  Mali 
welcomes the successes around the world in the fight 
against  terrorist  organizations  and  urgently  calls  for 
more cooperation and coordination in the fight against 
terrorism in the Sahel.
The realities and demands of today’s world require 
that we adapt global governance to current challenges. 
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
long-awaited  reform  of  the  Security  Council  are 
becoming  increasingly  necessary  if  we  are  to  have  a 
United Nations capable of responding effectively to the 
legitimate  expectations  of  all  nations.  That  has  been 
said here today.
Mali  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  African 
Common  Position  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. Moreover, we express our concern about the 
current tendency to reduce the budget of peacekeeping 
operations at the very time when such operations have 
become crucial and substantial in terms of volume.
I wish to reiterate the Government of Mali’s call for 
the necessary adaptation of peacekeeping operations to 
the  dizzying  developments  surrounding  them:  global 
threats.  We  believe  that  the  call  we  just  launched  for 
support  for  our  common  regional  organization,  the 
G-5  Sahel,  must  be  promoted  so  that  we  may  receive 
energetic  support  for  the  G-5  Sahel  and  establish 
the  effective  business  and  financing  that  we  lack. 
Unfortunately,  very  often  such  promises  remain  mere 
pronouncements,  at  the  very  time  such  operations 
are  indispensable  and  urgent  for  the  well-being  of 
the  populations  under  permanent  threat  from  diverse 
groups infesting the region.
Let  me  also  say  that  today  that  our  region  is 
concerned about the trend in United Nations budgetary 
cutbacks.  Each  of  us  has  been  somewhat  reassured 
today by strong statements made.
We have a collective responsibility to bring about 
peace and to ensure security worldwide. We have the 
collective responsibility to leave no one behind and to 
create the conditions for inclusive development for our 
populations.  We  have  the  collective  responsibility  to 
save and to preserve our environment and our common 
planet. Through my voice, Mali fully commits to play 
its  role  in  this  collective  endeavour  to  build  a  better 
world for all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Mali for the statement just made.
Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar  Keita,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mali,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
4/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
Address by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II 
of Monaco
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by His Serene Highness Prince Albert 
II of Monaco.
His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II  of  Monaco 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II  of 
Monaco and to invite him to address the Assembly.
Prince  Albert  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like  to 
begin by telling the President how pleased I am to see 
him  conducting  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its seventy-second session. We wish him success in the 
accomplishment of this important and delicate task in 
the  service  of  the  international  community.  I  have  an 
excellent memory of my official visit to Slovakia last 
May.  On  that  occasion  I  was  able  to  appreciate  his 
work and to consolidate the good relations between our 
two States.
“Peace must be our goal and guide”. But “without a 
healthy environment we cannot end poverty and build 
prosperity”.  Those  are  the  words  of  the  Secretary-
General,  and  current  circumstances  give  those  words 
special resonance. It is clear that the threat of nuclear 
escalation  in  Asia  has  never  been  greater,  and  that 
notion can leave no leader indifferent.
In accordance with its obligations, Monaco complies 
with  the  Security  Council  resolutions  adopted  under 
Chapter VII of the Charter. Respecting the commitments 
that  apply  to  each  Member  State  is  paramount.  We 
therefore  refuse  to  be  powerless  witnesses  of  the 
indefensible stances that pose a grave danger to all our 
States. We condemn the irresponsibility of those who 
expose humankind to an irreversible disaster.
the 
Recognizing 
importance  of  cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations, 
Monaco continues to support collective efforts for the 
promotion of peace and security. As a member of the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
and  the  Council  of  Europe,  Monaco  participates 
actively  in  the  work  of  those  regional  institutions. 
In  that  connection,  the  Principality  pays  particular 
attention to the work of the Special Monitoring Mission 
on the crisis in Ukraine and its vicinity.
The Principality of Monaco, with 140 nationalities 
in its territory, has always been open to dialogue. Our 
country  has  been  enriched  by  that  diversity,  which 
continues  today.  We  are  convinced  that  our  common 
values  —  the  defence  of  human  rights,  of  democracy 
and  of  the  rule  of  law  —  are  among  the  ongoing 
priorities of a modern State concerned with the welfare 
of its citizens and those who live on its soil. The ideals 
that unite us allow us to move forward together, as our 
goals remain unfulfilled.
The  fight  against  impunity  is  part  and  parcel  of 
those ideals. Refusing to allow atrocity to dictate the law 
is a sine qua non condition of assumed sovereignty. The 
Principality of Monaco is fully committed to respect for 
justice and peace. That underpins our support for the 
International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism on 
the most serious crimes committed in Syria. To the best 
of its ability, Monaco will continue its contribution in 
terms of the assistance to that country’s long-suffering 
civilian  population  in  order  to  enable  them  to  rebuild 
and imagine a better future.
The  situation  in  Africa,  where  over  20  million 
individuals are risk of losing their lives as a result of 
famine,  will  have  serious  consequences.  Although 
drought is an exacerbating factor, it must be recognized 
that the primary cause for this humanitarian disaster is 
war. In keeping with our traditions, Monaco expresses 
solidarity by responding to the call of the United Nations 
for contributions to the World Food Programme and the 
International Committee of the Red Cross, as well as to 
Monegasque non-governmental organizations.
Above  and  beyond  those  urgent  humanitarian 
actions,  Monaco’s  cooperation  system  implements 
a  policy  promoting  the  eradication  of  poverty  and 
fostering  sustainable  development  to  serve  the  most 
vulnerable.  My  country’s  new  strategic  plan  for 
official  development  assistance  will  work  with  public 
and  private  partners  to  respond  to  the  most  pressing 
needs  —  food  security,  health,  education  and  job 
placement — beyond the mere duty to assist.
Good governance, the fight against corruption, and 
sufficient  public  resources  are  not  empty  words,  but 
rather assets without which no State can meet the basic 
needs  of  its  population  or  establish  its  development 
policies in a long-lasting manner.
Those  crises  serve  only  to  further  justify  the 
Secretary-General’s  advocacy  for  “protection  and 
17-29275
5/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
respect for human rights and for the creation of decent 
work opportunities for young people”.
Today, by depositing our instrument of ratification 
of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities, I once again wish to associate my country 
with  the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to 
promote  their  fundamental  freedom  and  dignity.  As 
Dag Hammarskjöld so aptly observed,
(spoke in English)
“The  United  Nations  was  not  created  to  lead 
mankind to heaven, but to save humanity from hell.”
(spoke in French)
Attacks  on  innocent  civilians  affect  us  all,  wherever 
they are perpetrated. We hope that the United Nations 
Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  can  bring  us  together  in 
our determination to annihilate this barbarism.
Climate change is putting humankind in imminent 
danger. The unprecedented violence of recent extreme 
weather  events  serve  to  prompt  us  once  again  to 
recognize our limitations. Faced with nature unleashed, 
people will always lose. Hurricanes and typhoons have 
tragic consequences whether they form in the Atlantic 
or  the  North  Pacific.  The  Paris  Climate  Change 
Agreement has garnered 195 signatures and 159 States 
parties. That is the clearest proof of the urgency felt at 
the global level. Only by promoting global awareness 
and mobilizing all sectors of our societies can we adapt 
our  economies  successfully.  Several  States,  including 
Monaco,  as  well  as  some  private  companies,  have 
already announced major measures aimed at changing 
our  modes  of  transport,  production  and  consumption. 
In  general,  a  change  in  our  lifestyles  is  more  than 
necessary; it is crucial. The joint UNICEF-World Health 
Organization report of 12 July on access to water and 
sanitation  reveals  glaring  inequalities  that  continue 
to  worsen.  Too  many  people  are  still  marginalized  or 
living in unacceptable conditions.
We  must  also  resolutely  persevere  in  the  fight 
against  all  forms  of  serious  violence  against  human 
dignity.  In  particular,  we  must  work  to  improve  the 
status  of  women  as  long  as  the  discrimination  and 
violence of which they are victims continues. Monaco 
welcomes  the  courageous  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  that  regard  and  yesterday  signed  the 
Voluntary  Compact  between  the  United  Nations  and 
Member States with a view to eliminating exploitation 
and  sexual  abuse  in  peace  operations,  humanitarian 
assistance, the promotion and protection of human rights 
and, more broadly, in the Organization’s contribution to 
sustainable development. That commitment is a strong 
message  that  zero  tolerance  should  become  the  norm 
for all States.
I  believe  it  is  important  today  to  reflect  on  the 
creation  of  the  United  Nations,  if  only  to  appreciate 
it  more.  This  exercise  in  remembering  can  enable  us 
to  put  our  current  difficulties  into  perspective  and 
convince us — if we needed to be convinced — of the 
importance of this global Organization. That brings me 
to  express  my  satisfaction  with  respect  to  the  vision 
that the Secretary-General has put forward so that the 
Organization  will  be  better  able  to  assist  its  Member 
States  in  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. We support him in his reform 
initiatives  because  we  want  a  modern  and  efficient 
Organization where international civil servants, both at 
Headquarters  and  in  its  many  fields  of  operation,  are 
invested in a priority mission for which their work and 
self-sacrifice  are  recognized.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like to pay tribute to all those who undertake to fulfil 
this  mission  on  the  ground,  sometimes,  as  we  have 
sadly seen too often this year, by putting their lives at 
risk. It is up to us, the leaders gathered in this forum, 
to  forge  an  ambitious  consensus  and  provide  realistic 
mandates and sufficient resources to the Organization.
The  first  voluntary  report  from  Monaco  on  its 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) was presented at the High-level Political Forum 
on Sustainable Development held under the auspices of 
the Economic and Social Council in July. Monaco, like 
every State here today, can now deal with ensuring the 
effectiveness  of  its  choices  with  respect  to  the  global 
goals that we adopted here two years ago. I would like 
to mention the Assembly’s call to action on 9 June with 
its adoption of resolution 71/312, which recognized that 
the ocean is our future. The implementation of SDG 14 
on marine life, has special significance, and the success 
of the Ocean Conference, which focused on it, showed 
us  that  the  conservation  and  sustainable  development 
of the oceans and seas and their resources are essential 
for our survival.
We are fully and forever committed to our planet in 
general and to the oceans in particular. I firmly believe 
that our ability to save the ocean from gradual decline 
will  help  us  save  the  planet.  That  is  why  I  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  visionary  decision  to  appoint 
a  Special  Envoy  for  the  Ocean,  which  highlights  the 
6/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
challenges to be met and is greatly needed if we are to 
streamline our actions. There can be no doubt as to the 
dedication and unwavering commitment of the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session, 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  whom  we  warmly  congratulate 
both on the work he has accomplished in recent months 
and  on  his  new  responsibilities.  We  have  great  hopes 
for  his  ability  to  bring  together  the  United  Nations 
system, civil society, the private sector and academia to 
ensure that the targets of SDG 14 are met. It is therefore 
with  great  pride  that  the  Oceanographic  Museum  of 
Monaco  and  the  Prince  Albert  I  Foundation  will  host 
him  at  the  Maison  des  Océans  in  Paris.  In  doing  so, 
the Principality is continuing a tradition established by 
my great-great-grandfather — a prince, oceanographer 
and  passionate  scientist  —  one  of  whose  ambitions 
was  to  make  science  accessible  to  all  and  to  use  new 
knowledge to improve the well-being of humankind.
A few weeks ago I had the privilege of presenting, 
on the sidelines of the SDG 14 Conference, the Monaco 
Explorations  initiative.  The  vessel  Yersin’s  three-year 
voyage around the world aims to increase our knowledge 
through marine biological research in association with 
local scientists, disseminate the results of our research 
and  promote  collective  and  concerted  action  in  areas 
such as the creation of protected marine zones, while 
stimulating innovation.
I would like to conclude by affirming my confidence 
in science, which enables us to base our decisions on 
proven and verifiable facts. Whether it reassures us or 
frightens us, science must spur us to action and thereby 
to  moving  forward  together  towards  progress  and  the 
hope for a better world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank His Serene Highness Prince 
Albert II of Monaco for the statement he has just made.
Prince Albert II of Monaco was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Andrzej Duda, President of the 
Republic of Poland
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Poland.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
into 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President 
of the Republic of Poland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Duda  (spoke  in  Polish;  interpretation 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  first  like  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session, on his 
election  to  this  honourable  post.  I  would  also  like  to 
assure him of Poland’s full support for the tasks ahead of 
him and to say how pleased we are at his election, since 
he represents a country that is a friend and neighbour 
to  my  own.  Once  again,  I  offer  him  my  warmest 
congratulations. I would also like to express my thanks 
to Mr. Peter Thomson for his active presidency during 
the seventy-first session of the General Assembly.
Like the pillars of the United Nations system, the 
international community’s basic goals are the promotion 
of sustainable development, the maintenance of peace 
and security and the protection of human rights. I was 
therefore  very  pleased  to  learn  that  the  theme  of  this 
year’s session is focusing on people’s needs. Too often in 
global politics we devote too much time and attention to 
broad economic models and social systems, forgetting 
that  politics  and  economics  are  in  fact  human  issues. 
When we lose our focus on those issues, we inevitably 
lose sight of the goal that underpins our shared efforts, 
which should be that of ensuring peace and well-being 
for every individual and family in every State through a 
policy whose goal is to serve the people and meet their 
needs, and that is based on the notion of the dignity that 
is inherent in human life.
As  we  address  a  people-centred  policy  that  is 
focused on the human need to live in peace and in decent 
conditions,  we  should  first  and  foremost  consider  the 
importance  of  defending  and  protecting  human  life. 
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
we all adopted, defines a global model for sustainable 
development.  In  line  with  its  recommendations,  we 
should  concentrate  our  efforts  on  the  elimination 
of  poverty  in  all  its  manifestations  through  the 
implementation  of  a  series  of  economic,  social  and 
environmental goals. At the same time, we must bear in 
mind that this process should be accompanied by respect 
for all our interconnected rights, including economic, 
social, political, civil and cultural rights and the right 
to development. While in adopting the 2030 Agenda we 
demonstrated our ability to take action as a community, 
17-29275
7/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals remains a formidable challenge that will require 
close cooperation at the international level.
As  a  reliable  and  responsible  partner,  Poland 
is  committed  to  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Goals  outlined  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  believe  that  only  through  their 
effective implementation will we be able to ensure the 
achievement  of  the  desired  socioeconomic  conditions 
for all. That involves coordination and comprehensive 
action  across  many  sectors  and  at  all  levels  of 
Government,  from  local  to  national  to  regional  to 
international.  Domestically,  Poland  is  taking  concrete 
steps  to  implement  its  vision  for  development  in  the 
spirit  of  the  2030  Agenda  to  ensure  that  none  of  its 
citizens is left behind.
The strategy for responsible development that the 
Polish  Government  adopted  in  February  is  designed 
to  ensure  that  Poland  and  its  people  can  maintain  a 
level  of  development  that  is  sustainable,  stable  and, 
most  important,  responsible,  and  that  will  embrace 
both current and, especially, future generations. In the 
international  arena,  Poland  supports  countries  that, 
among other things, are seeking to develop economically 
through  development  cooperation.  We  want  to  ensure 
that  our  actions  are  as  effective  as  possible,  and 
therefore, using the experience of the Polish authorities 
and  non-governmental  organizations,  we  are  working 
with States that we can support most effectively.
We  are  deeply  concerned  about  the  growing 
number  of  people  who  are  suffering  as  a  result  of 
protracted conflicts, particularly in Syria and Ukraine. 
Guided  by  the  principle  of  solidarity,  we  have  also 
been  consistently  increasing  our  humanitarian  aid.  In 
our view, it is also very important to ensure cohesion 
and  complementarity  between  humanitarian  aid  and 
development aid and to work to eliminate the underlying 
causes of humanitarian crises. That is our shared duty, 
and the future of the world order and the international 
community  depends  upon  how  we  deliver  on  it.  In 
addition, we should not fail to continue to respect and 
strengthen international humanitarian law.
One  of  the  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  is  halting 
the  changes  occurring  in  our  natural  environment, 
which  can  be  seen  in  every  country  and  on  every 
continent, and which have are having negative effects 
on  national  economies  and  the  living  standards  of 
entire communities. For a number of years, Poland has 
been part of global efforts to protect the environment 
and  combat  climate  change.  We  have  fulfilled  our 
obligations  in  that  regard,  surpassing  our  reduction 
targets  under  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  We  have  worked 
in  concert  with  the  European  Union  to  make  an 
exceedingly ambitious global contribution to the Paris 
Climate Change Agreement, and will continue our low-
carbon development efforts with the aim of protecting 
our climate.
Next year, for the third time, Poland will have the 
honour of hosting the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  (COP  24).  COP  24,  to  be  held  in  the  city  of 
Katowice,  will  be  of  key  importance,  owing  to  the 
Conference’s expected adoption of the implementation 
package  for  the  Paris  Agreement.  As  President  of  the 
COP, Poland will do its best to ensure that the summit’s 
outcome  is  an  ambitious  one.  We  will  continue  to 
demonstrate  leadership  in  climate  negotiations,  in 
the spirit of the Paris Agreement, while ensuring that 
all  States  can  participate  and  that  the  discussions 
are  transparent,  while  respecting  countries’  varying 
domestic conditions and their choices along the path to 
reducing emissions.
Poland’s  election  to  the  Security  Council  as  a 
non-permanent  member  for  the  period  2018-2019 
reflects  my  country’s  growing  potential  and 
its 
involvement  in  efforts  to  ensure  international  peace 
and  security.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
express my gratitude for the 190 votes cast for Poland, 
one of the best results in the history of elections to the 
Council.  For  us,  the  election  and  its  result  are  both  a 
huge  honour  and  a  major  obligation.  I  would  like  to 
thank the United Nations community for placing their 
confidence  in  us.  We  view  our  membership  in  the 
Security Council as a commitment to representing all 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  regardless  of 
their affiliations with regional groups.
We see the Security Council as representing values 
that are particularly important to my nation. First and 
foremost,  they  include  our  firm  attachment  to  the 
inalienable  right  of  every  nation  to  sovereignty  and 
freedom.  We  are  joining  the  Security  Council  in  the 
conviction  that  international  law  is  the  only  effective 
mechanism  for  preserving  peaceful  relations  among 
nations.  Freedom  is  synonymous  with  peace,  while 
enslavement is a source of war. Principles such as the 
freedom  of  speech  and  sovereign  nation  States’  right 
to  self-determination  are  of  particular  importance  to 
8/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
security.  I  bring  this  subject  up  because  last  year  in 
particular saw an increase in instances in many States 
where  political  processes  were  manipulated  through 
the imposition of hybrid measures, either by means of 
propaganda  or  direct  interference  in  the  democratic 
process. Such attempts by third countries to influence 
the democratic policies pursued by free nations should 
also be of concern to the international community.
Such 
issues,  as  well  as  analysis  of  current 
international relations, serve to emphasize that security 
in  the  modern  world  should  be  viewed  from  many 
platforms. It is not just a State’s military strength that 
determines its citizens’ sense of security, but also areas 
that often transcend the regular purview of the Security 
Council’s  work.  Changes  in  the  natural  environment, 
economic disparities, conflicts fuelled by competition 
over  natural  resources,  and  inadequate  health  care 
can  also  undermine  that  sense  of  security,  and  I 
believe those issues should feature permanently on the 
Council’s agenda.
Respect 
for,  and 
the  absolute  primacy  of, 
international  law  in  relations  among  States  safeguard 
our  effectiveness  in  ensuring  international  peace  and 
security. As a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council, Poland will strive to ensure that all disputes 
and conflicts are resolved in line with the fundamental 
principle  of  peaceful  settlement.  In  that  context,  we 
fully agree with the high priority that should be given to 
mediation and conflict prevention, as advocated by the 
Secretary-General, and which accords with our belief 
that  preventive  measures  that  target  the  underlying 
sources  of  problems  on  the  ground  produce  the  best, 
quickest and most tangible results.
When  I  visited  the  headquarters  of  the  African 
Union in Addis Ababa earlier this year, I discussed the 
importance of the international community’s ability to 
prevent  conflicts.  Conflicts  do  not  exist  without  root 
causes  and,  by  the  same  token,  there  are  no  conflicts 
that cannot be brought to an end. We should apply that 
approach first and foremost, though not exclusively, to 
issues  related  to  mass  migration  and  refugees,  which 
represent  problems  that  many  regions  and  continents 
share.  The  continuing  internal  clashes  and  risks  of 
terrorist attacks in the Middle East and North Africa, 
as well as all the challenges that they entail, call for a 
common response on the part of the whole international 
community.  That  is  why  it  is  our  duty  to  eliminate 
the  root  causes  of  the  refugee  problem  and  restore 
the right of all people to live in their home countries. 
Humanitarian operations and development aid must be 
aimed  at  achieving  the  fundamental  goal  of  helping 
refugees  in  order  ultimately  to  help  them  return  to 
their homes. Operations that help to build the resilience 
of  States  and  societies  are  particularly  important  to 
efforts  to  deal  with  issues  such  as  structural  poverty, 
unemployment and lack of access to education.
Poland  has  always  considered  ensuring 
the 
effectiveness  of  international  law  to  be  of  prime 
importance. Its regulations are founded on the principles 
of cooperation and meeting international obligations in 
good faith, thereby ensuring that international disputes 
can be resolved through dialogue rather than aggression 
and armed violence. In dealing with situations in which 
States  use  aggression  as  an  instrument  of  foreign 
policy,  Poland  urges  the  international  community  to 
refrain  from  recognizing  the  faits  accomplis  that  can 
result from such policies.
We in Poland want to help to build an international 
order  founded  on  the  principles  of  State  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity.  Any  attempt  to  violate  those 
principles, successful or not, weakens mutual trust. For 
almost 10 years in Georgia, and almost three in Ukraine, 
we have witnessed clear violations of the fundamental 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, including 
the inviolability of borders, respect for sovereignty and 
rejection of the use of military force in the settlement of 
disputes. In our view, absolute respect for international 
law creates a foundation for the stable, predictable and 
peaceful  settlement  of  differences  among  States,  and 
through that the assurance of truly sustainable growth.
The  situation  in  the  Korean  peninsula  has  been 
marked  by  flagrant  attempts  to  disrupt  the  prevailing 
world  order  that  have  contributed  to  the  growing 
risk  of  escalation  of  the  situation  in  the  region.  The 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s development 
of a nuclear and missile programme, as well as its most 
recent tests of nuclear weapons, constitutes a flagrant 
violation of international law and the relevant Security 
Council  resolutions.  We  hope  that  the  international 
community will continue its intensified efforts in that 
regard, including the Council’s recent adoption of new 
resolutions, and enable us to halt the spiral of tension 
and stabilize the situation in the region.
Poland sets great store by the goals of disarmament 
and  the  idea  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  The 
only  instrument  at  hand  that  can  genuinely  bring  us 
closer  to  achieving  that  vision  is  the  Treaty  on  the 
17-29275
9/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  The 
Treaty  is  subject  to  review  every  five  years  in  order 
to  take  stock  of  progress  towards  its  realization  and 
reinforce  its  commitments.  Poland  has  now  taken 
the  lead  in  the  preparation  process  for  the  upcoming 
NPT  Review  Conference  in  2020,  a  testament  to  our 
longstanding  commitment  to  non-proliferation,  a  ban 
on nuclear tests and the peaceful use of atomic energy.
The  third  pillar  of  the  United  Nations  system  is 
the  protection  of  human  rights,  whose  foundation  is 
the  fundamental  right  to  life.  Regrettably,  there  are 
too  many  places  in  the  world  that  have  been  stripped 
of  that  right,  as  well  as  the  right  to  human  dignity, 
personal  freedom  and  freedom  of  conscience  and 
religion. One particularly visible problem in that regard 
is  the  persecution  of  religious  minorities,  including 
Christians.  Poland  condemns  in  the  strongest  terms 
every instance of persecution and discrimination based 
on  religion  and  insists  on  the  importance  of  States’ 
commitments  to  ensuring  protection  to  all  members 
of  religious  minorities,  in  the  spirit  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. The right to live in dignity should also 
include the right to uphold one’s native traditions and 
traditional family model, as long as they are compatible 
with the fundamental rights of individuals.
chose 
the  motto 
In  its  campaign  for  membership  of  the  Security 
Council,  Poland 
“Solidarity, 
responsibility, engagement”. Those are the values that 
we are constantly seeking to promote in the international 
arena.  Only  through  a  sense  of  shared  responsibility, 
coupled with harmonious engagement and cooperation 
among all States, will we be able to achieve sustainable 
development,  security  and  peace,  and  not  only  today, 
but for generations to come.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Poland for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Andrzej  Duda,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Arab Republic 
of Egypt.
Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi,  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi, 
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Al Sisi (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I would like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session  and  to  wish  him  every 
success in carrying out his duties. I would also like to 
take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation 
to  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  the  outgoing  President,  who 
so  ably  oversaw  the  Assembly’s  work  at  its  seventy-
first session.
Each  time  we  meet  in  this  Hall,  we  rekindle  the 
hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  peoples  whom  we  are 
honoured  to  represent  and  serve.  We  hope  to  provide 
them  with  peace  and  development.  New  generations 
look up to us to realize their dreams for a decent life 
within  a  just  international  order.  It  is  a  global  order 
that  can  face  challenges  such  as  climate  change, 
natural  disasters,  diseases  and  epidemics,  as  well  as 
other  man-made  crises  —  war,  terrorism  and  huge 
discrepancies  in  the  distribution  of  resources  and 
development opportunities.
It  is  evident  that  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the United Nations are still valid as a basis for a world 
that  offers  everyone  an  opportunity  to  benefit  from 
the great strides being made in scientific advancement 
and  economic  development,  as  well  as  from  the 
information  revolution,  which  has  brought  societies 
unprecedentedly closer. Those developments offer great 
potential for establishing a fair and secure international 
order — one that is based on the right to development, 
freedom  and  progress  and  open  interactions  between 
people. In Egypt, we adamantly believe in the values of 
the United Nations and the purposes of its Charter. We 
have great confidence that realizing those values is not 
only possible, but rather an obligation and a necessity.
Egypt’s 
long-standing 
involvement  with 
the 
United  Nations  —  both  as  a  founding  Member  of  the 
Organization  that  has  been  elected  to  the  Security 
Council six times and as the seventh-largest contributor 
to peacekeeping operations worldwide — bears witness 
to our constant striving to build a world that is worthy 
10/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
of the aspirations of our children and grandchildren to 
live in freedom, dignity, security and prosperity.
However,  the  responsibility  that  we  bear  requires 
that we be frank in saying that the world we seek, albeit 
possible,  unfortunately  still  remains  far  from  reality. 
We are still unable to prevent armed conflict, confront 
terrorism,  eliminate  nuclear  weapons  or  address  the 
structural  imbalances  in  the  international  economic 
order that have widened the gap between the developed 
and  developing  worlds.  Based  on  the  experiences  of 
the African and Arab regions, I can state with a clear 
conscience  that  those  experiences  summarize  the 
current crisis of the international order and its inability 
to deliver on the goals of the United Nations.
The Arab region, Egypt’s civilizational and cultural 
milieu, has today become an epicentre for some of the 
most  vicious  civil  conflicts  in  recent  human  history. 
It  is  the  region  most  vulnerable  to  the  dangers  posed 
by  terrorism.  One  out  of  every  three  refugees  in  the 
world today is an Arab, and the Mediterranean Sea has 
become  a  conduit  for  irregular  migrants  from  Asian 
and  African  States  fleeing  the  scourge  of  civil  strife, 
as well as the despair of economic and social hardships. 
That  is  reflected  in  the  Arab  regional  report  on 
multidimensional poverty in Arab countries published 
by the League of Arab States in collaboration with the 
United Nations. The report will be issued tomorrow.
As  Egypt’s  geographical  home,  Africa  lies  at  the 
heart of Egypt’s foreign policy. It is Africa where our 
historic roots lie, and it is from Africa that we derive 
pride in our identity and our deep sense of belonging. 
The  continent  has  also  become  subject  to  the  same 
security threats facing the Arab region and constitutes 
a major example of the crisis in the current international 
economic order that perpetuates poverty and economic 
disparity. This global order bears a major responsibility 
in the economic, political and social crises that threaten 
international  peace  and  stability, 
rendering  any 
discussion on the Sustainable Development Goals just 
words without evidence based on reality.
Egypt is therefore encircled by the most dangerous 
crises  in  the  world.  It  is  our  destiny  to  navigate 
confidently through those unprecedented dangers, while 
relying on an ambitious development strategy based on 
radical,  bold  economic  reforms.  Those  reforms  aim, 
above all else, to empower the youth, who represent the 
majority of the population, not only in Egypt but also 
in most of the Arab countries and the developing world.
In a world that is interconnected, complex and full 
of challenges that cannot be confronted by one country 
alone,  regardless  of  its  capabilities,  it  is  natural  for 
Egypt’s ambitious development plans to correlate with 
an  active  foreign  policy.  That  foreign  policy  strategy 
is  guided  by  the  long-established  moral  principles 
ingrained  in  our  heritage  and  culture  and  abides  by 
the legal principles of the international system, which 
Egypt actively participated in formulating. It is based 
on  a  vision  to  address  the  shortcomings  that  have 
prevented the realization of the objectives of the United 
Nations. Our vision is based on the following five main 
principles and priorities.
First,  the  only  possible  solution  to  the  crises 
afflicting  the  Arab  region  is  through  persistently 
upholding the notion of the modern nation-State based 
on the principles of citizenship, equality, the rule of law 
and human rights, and thereby defeating any attempts 
to  retreat  into  doctrinal,  sectarian,  ethnic  or  tribal 
loyalties. The path towards reform inevitably includes 
embracing  the  nation-State  and  cannot  be  built  on  its 
demise.  This  principle,  in  summary,  lies  at  the  core 
of  Egypt’s  foreign  policy  and  is  the  foundation  upon 
which we base our positions in addressing the crises in 
our region.
With  regard 
to  brotherly  Syria,  we  believe 
there  will  be  no  salvation  for  Syria  except  through  a 
consensual political solution among all Syrians. At its 
core is the preservation of the unity of the Syrian State, 
the maintenance of its institutions and the broadening 
of its political and social base to include all sectors of 
Syrian society, as well as the decisive confrontation of 
terrorism until it is defeated. The way to this solution 
is through the United Nations-led negotiation process, 
which  enjoys  strong  support  from  Egypt.  Equally  as 
strong is our objection to any attempt to manipulate the 
tragedy  in  Syria  to  establish  international  or  regional 
zones of influence or carry out the subversive policies 
of  some  regional  parties  —  parties  whose  practices 
have caused great suffering to our region over the past 
few years. It is now high time for a final and decisive 
confrontation with those practices.
Similarly, we believe that a political settlement is 
the  only  viable  solution  to  the  crisis  in  Libya.  Libya 
continues  to  face  attempts  to  dismantle  the  State  and 
turn  it  into  an  open  field  for  tribal  conflict,  a  field 
of  operations  for  terrorist  organizations.  I  would  like 
clearly  to  underscore  that  Egypt  will  not  allow  the 
continuation  of  attempts  to  tamper  with  the  unity 
17-29275
11/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
and  integrity  of  the  Libyan  State  or  undermine  the 
capabilities of the Libyan people. We will continue to 
work  diligently  with  the  United  Nations  to  achieve  a 
political  settlement  based  on  the  Skhirat  Agreement 
and  inspired  by  the  recommendations  agreed  upon 
by Libyans. The recommendations that emerged from 
their  consecutive  meetings  in  Cairo  during  the  past 
months aim to end the political stalemate and revive the 
settlement process in the country.
The same logic applies to Egypt’s strategy in Iraq 
and Yemen: the only way to overcome the crises is with 
a  unified,  capable  and  just  modern  nation-State  that 
realizes the legitimate aspirations of the Arab people.
Secondly, it is time for a comprehensive and final 
settlement  to  the  longest-standing  crisis  in  the  Arab 
region, namely, the question of Palestine. This is a clear 
depiction  of  the  international  community’s  inability 
to  implement  a  long  series  of  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions.  The  closure  of  this 
chapter — through a fair settlement based on established 
international norms and by establishing an independent 
Palestinian  State  along  the  1967  border  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital — is a necessary precondition 
for the entire region to transition into a phase of stability 
and development. That is also necessary to restore the 
credibility of the United Nations and the international 
order.
Achieving peace will without a doubt eliminate one 
of  the  main  excuses  that  terrorism  has  been  using  to 
justify its proliferation in the region. It will guarantee a 
dignified and peaceful life for the peoples of the region. 
It is time to permanently overcome the barrier of hatred 
forever. I would like to underscore here that Arabs still 
extend their hand in peace. Egypt’s experience proves 
that peace is possible, and is indeed a realistic objective 
that we should all continue to pursue seriously.
Before I continue my statement, allow me to veer 
off script for a moment and call directly upon everyone 
who is concerned by this issue.
My  first  audience  is  the  Palestinian  people.  I  say 
to them that it is extremely important to unite behind 
a  common  goal,  overcome  differences,  not  to  lose 
opportunities and be ready to accept coexistence with 
the  other  —  with  Israelis  —  to  achieve  stability  and 
security for all. 
I now direct my call to the Israeli people. In Egypt 
we have an excellent track record of peace with Israelis 
that spans more than 40 years. It is possible to repeat 
that  experience  —  an  excellent  step  to  achieve  peace 
and  security  for  both  Israeli  and  Palestinian  citizens. 
My  call  to  Israelis  is  to  stand  behind  their  political 
leadership and support it without hesitation. I urge the 
Israeli public not to hesitate. We are all with them for 
the success of that attempt. This opportunity might not 
repeat itself. 
My other call is to all nations that love peace and 
stability.  All  Arab  States  support  Israel’s  excellent 
endeavour.  Other  nations, 
its 
endeavour,  which,  if  successful,  will  change  the  face 
of history. 
too,  must  support 
I  also  address  the  American  leadership  and  the 
American  President:  we  have  an  opportunity  to  turn 
over  a  new  page  in  human  history  and  achieve  peace 
in the region. 
The  third  of  my  main  principles  and  priorities  is 
that it is impossible to envisage a future for the regional 
or international order in which we have not definitively 
and comprehensively addressed terrorism. That should 
be  approached  in  a  manner  that  eradicates  terrorism 
and eliminates its roots and causes, while also openly 
challenging  any  party 
that  supports  or  finances 
terrorism or that offers it political and media channels 
or safe havens.
there 
Frankly, 
is  no  room  for  any  serious 
discussion  on  the  credibility  of  a  system  that  applies 
double  standards  —  a  system  that  fights  terrorism 
while  tolerating  its  supporters  and  engaging  them 
in  discussions  on  how  to  eliminate  a  threat  that  they 
created  in  the  first  place.  To  be  truthful  and  faithful 
to  our  peoples,  members  of  various  international 
alliances should answer the pertinent questions that we 
are raising out of devotion to our people. Answers are 
usually avoided by those who prefer duplicity to attain 
narrow political interests in the demise of States and at 
the expense of blood shed by their people. We will not 
allow our peoples’ sacrifices to be made in vain, under 
any circumstances.
We  in  the  Muslim  world  need  to  face  up  to  our 
reality  and  work  together  to  rectify  the  misconstrued 
notions  that  have  become  an  ideological  pretext  for 
terrorism  and  its  destructive  discourse.  As  members 
may  recall,  Egypt  launched  an  initiative  to  rectify 
religious  discourse  in  order  to  revive  the  true  and 
tolerant values of Islam. Egypt’s religious institutions 
12/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
are currently engaged in that process, in coordination 
with the relevant international entities.
Egypt, which is currently engaged in an unrelenting 
battle  to  eradicate  terrorism  from  its  territory,  is 
committed  to  tracking,  confronting  and  eliminating 
terrorism  decisively,  wherever  it  exists.  It  is  evident 
that confronting terrorism has been at the forefront of 
Egypt’s priorities during its 2016-2017 membership in 
the  Security  Council  and  during  our  chairmanship  of 
the  Security  Council  Counter-Terrorism  Committee. 
We do not wish to defend only Egypt’s future, but also 
the future of the international community as a whole.
Our  fourth  priority  is  to  eliminate  the  root 
causes  of  international  crises  and  the  sources  of 
threat  to  international  stability,  That  requires  the 
operationalization  of  the  principle  of  a  common  but 
differentiated  responsibility  among  the  members  of 
the  international  community,  in  order  to  narrow  the 
economic  and  social  gaps  between  developed  and 
developing countries.
How  can  the  United  Nations,  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  have  any  credibility  when  the 
international  economic  order  is  itself  responsible  for 
augmenting disparities, in a manner inconsistent with 
the  values  of  justice  and  equality?  How  can  there  be 
any opportunity for less developed countries, no matter 
how  determined  they  are,  to  implement  fundamental 
economic  reforms  to  address  the  mismanagement 
of  their  resources  without  addressing  imbalances  in 
the  international  economic  order?  Such  endeavours 
require  greater  involvement  by  developing  countries 
in  international  economic  governance  structures  and 
facilitating  their  access  to  easier  financing,  markets 
and technology transfer.
Fifthly,  settling  disputes  in  our  world  today  can 
be  achieved  only  through  respect  for  the  principles 
of  international  law  and  negotiation  on  the  basis  of 
legal,  historic  and  moral  principles,  as  well  respect 
for  the  sovereignty  of  States  and  the  principle  of 
non-intervention in individual States’ internal affairs. 
More  than  seven  decades  after  the  establishment  of 
the United Nations, force and zero-sum games cannot 
remain  as  a  means  to  realize  interests  —  especially 
in  today’s  world,  which  is  based  on  interdependence 
among  nations  and  where 
there  are  significant 
opportunities  for  cooperation  and  understanding  to 
achieve the common interests of all.
Based  on  the  principles  I  have  mentioned,  Egypt 
was  at  the  forefront  of  countries  eager  to  initiate  the 
Nile  Basin  initiative  in  1999.  Egypt  also  pursued  the 
conclusion  of  a  trilateral  agreement  between  Egypt, 
the  Sudan  and  Ethiopia  to  address  the  issue  of  the 
Renaissance  Dam  from  a  cooperative  perspective,  in 
a  manner  that  establishes  a  clear  legal  framework  to 
manage the issue in accordance with international law, 
established  principles  and  the  well-established  rules 
that  govern  relations  between  States  sharing  basins 
of  transboundary  rivers  throughout  the  world.  That 
agreement remains as a legal framework that can be used 
as  an  example  to  reflect  the  logic  of  cooperation  and 
sharing among the three parties, as long as good faith 
continues. It is of paramount importance to implement 
the  agreement,  in  the  light  of  the  limited  amount  of 
time  available,  to  avoid  squandering  the  opportunity 
of  presenting  a  successful  model  to  manage  relations 
between three sisterly countries in the Nile basin.
today 
Our  meeting  here 
truthful  self-reflection, 
is  an  opportunity 
for 
in  which  we  should 
acknowledge the various deficiencies that are hindering 
the  international  system  from  delivering  on  the  noble 
objectives  and  aspirations  it  was  set  up  to  realize.  It 
is  also  an  opportunity  to  renew  our  commitment  to 
establish a more equitable international order, given that 
the attainment of justice globally remains a necessary 
condition to confront the immense challenges impacting 
our world today and endangering the credibility of the 
international system.
tragedy  of 
The  humanitarian 
the  Rohingya 
minority in Myanmar is yet another reason to remind 
the  international  community  of  its  moral  obligations, 
not to mention its legal responsibilities, as reflected in 
the Charter of the United Nations. We must promptly 
work towards a lasting solution that ends the plight of 
civilians  and  addresses  the  root  causes  of  the  crisis, 
which has become a threat to regional security and the 
stability of neighbouring countries.
Let  us  move  together  to  empower  the  people  of 
the  world  to  regain  control  of  their  destinies  and  to 
explore new horizons of cooperation between members 
of  the  international  community.  Let  us  transcend  the 
vicious  cycle  of  narrow  interests  and  the  futile  logic 
of  power  politics  to  the  broader  horizons  of  common 
human interests and cooperation among all. Let us be 
true to ourselves and dispel the mentality of polarizing 
policies. The world today is in dire need of the upholding 
of  common  human  interests.  It  is  incumbent  upon  all 
17-29275
13/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
States to strive to further relations among all partners 
with malice towards none.
I  have  conveyed  Egypt’s  message  to  the  General 
Assembly today explicitly and clearly. I am full of hope 
that our joint efforts during the upcoming period will 
lead  to  a  better  world  that  is  more  secure,  stable  and 
prosperous. Long live Egypt!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Arab 
Republic of Egypt for the statement he has just made.
His Excellency Mr. Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, President 
of the Arab Republic of Egypt, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Shavkat Mirziyoyev, President of 
the Republic of Uzbekistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Shavkat Mirziyoyev, President of the Republic 
of  Uzbekistan,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shavkat  Mirziyoyev, 
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Mirziyoyev  (spoke  in  Russian):  Allow 
me to express my sincere gratitude for this opportunity 
to speak from the high rostrum of the United Nations.
A few weeks ago, our people widely celebrated the 
twenty-sixth anniversary of Uzbekistan’s independence. 
Today Uzbekistan is rapidly developing. While carefully 
preserving  the  wisdom  of  past  generations,  we  are 
consciously moving forward with resolute reforms and 
are committed to creating a new image of the country.
Political activity is growing and in-depth reforms are 
being implemented in all spheres. Their goal is to forge 
a democratic State and a just society, where the priority 
is the implementation of a simple and clear principle: 
human  interests  come  first.  Following  the  results  of 
nationwide  discussions,  the  five-year  development 
strategy for Uzbekistan was adopted. While developing 
it, we looked at ourselves from outside, so as to not only 
objectively  assess  our  potential  and  the  opportunities 
before us, but also to pay close attention to our failures 
and  mistakes.  The  strategy  is  a  programme  of  real 
actions for renewal; it is already being put into practice.
We have declared 2017 the Year of Dialogue with 
People and Human Interests in our country. Our goal is 
to strengthen the mechanisms that would make people’s 
power in the country not nominal, but real. We are deeply 
convinced that it is not the people who must serve the 
Government bodies, but rather the Government bodies 
that  must  serve  the  people.  We  have  established  one 
Virtual  and  many  People’s  Reception  Offices  of  the 
President all over the country. Over 1 million citizens 
have been able to resolve their urgent problems with the 
help of those offices.
In  cooperation  with  the  International  Labour 
Organization,  we  have  taken  effective  measures  to 
eradicate  child  labour  and  forced  labour.  Following 
the  visit  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  Mr.  Al  Hussein,  a  programme  of 
measures  to  strengthen  guarantees  for  the  protection 
of  human  rights  was  developed.  We  have  abolished 
outdated legacies of the past such as exit visas, which 
impeded the freedom of movement. An open dialogue 
with  national  and 
international  non-governmental 
organizations  on  the  protection  of  human  rights  is 
being intensified.
Proceeding  from  the  principles  of  humanism, 
many  individual  cases  of  detained  persons  have  been 
reviewed.  Misguided  citizens  who  fell  under  the 
influence of the ideology of extremism are undergoing 
social rehabilitation, and conditions are being created 
for their return to normal life. The activities of all law- 
enforcement agencies in terms of protection of human 
rights and freedoms are under constant parliamentary 
and civil supervision.
The  role  of  political  parties  and  civil  society  is 
growing, and the genuine independence of the judiciary 
is  being  ensured.  The  role  of  the  mass  media  has 
significantly  increased.  The  most  important  direction 
for reforms is the liberalization of our economic system 
and  the  creation  of  a  favourable  investment  climate. 
We base ourselves on one simple truth: the richer the 
people are, the stronger the State will be.
Since the beginning of the month, Uzbekistan has 
completely switched to a system of free conversion of 
the national currency. Along with that, all the necessary 
measures  have  been  taken  to  mitigate  any  possible 
negative consequences for the population. For the first 
time, an institute of the ombudsman for the protection 
14/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
of the rights of entrepreneurs was established. Taxes on 
business were significantly reduced. Access of business 
to credit was expanded. New free economic zones have 
been  launched,  where  investors  are  granted  extensive 
benefits.  Cooperation  with 
international  financial 
institutions 
is  being  successfully  developed,  and 
partnership with the European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development has been renewed. I want to note that 
the contents of the strategy are fully consistent with the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
We  are  convinced  that  the  United  Nations  must 
continue to play a central role in international relations. 
Uzbekistan  champions  its  gradual  reform.  We  believe 
that, in keeping with the realities of the modern world, 
the Security Council needs to be expanded. We support 
the  steps  taken  by  the  new  leadership  of  the  United 
Nations  to  improve  its  management  system.  I  want 
to  reaffirm  that  Uzbekistan  will  continue  its  close 
partnership  with  United  Nations  structures.  We  are 
determined  to  ensure  the  practical  implementation  of 
the road map that was developed following the recent 
visit  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  António  Guterres, 
to Uzbekistan.
Today Uzbekistan considers the region of Central 
Asia the main priority for its foreign policy, and that is 
a conscious choice. Lying at the heart of Central Asia, 
Uzbekistan  is  keenly  interested  in  seeing  the  region 
become a zone of stability, sustainable development and 
good-neighbourliness.  A  peaceful  and  economically 
prosperous Central Asia is our most important goal and 
key task.
Uzbekistan  is  determined  to  engage  in  dialogue, 
constructive 
interaction  and  strengthening  good-
neighbourliness. We are open to reasonable compromise 
with the countries of Central Asia on all issues without 
exception.  Thanks  to  joint  efforts  in  the  region  in 
recent  months,  political  confidence  has  significantly 
increased. Fundamentally important decisions on many 
issues have been made.
The  signing  of  the  treaty  on  the  State  border 
between Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan in early September 
was  a  truly  landmark  event.  A  breakthrough  in  that 
very  sensitive  issue,  achieved  for  the  first  time  in  26 
years, became possible as a result of the political will 
demonstrated by both parties and their readiness to find 
mutually acceptable solutions. In a word, an absolutely 
new political atmosphere has been created in the region 
in a short period.
I believe that holding regular consultation meetings 
of  the  heads  of  Central  Asian  States  would  facilitate 
the  consolidation  of  this  trend.  We  intend  to  discuss 
the  fundamental  problems  of  the  region  at  the  high-
level  international  conference  on  the  theme  “Central 
Asia:  one  past  and  common  future,  cooperation  for 
sustainable development and mutual prosperity”, to be 
held in November in Samarkand under the auspices of 
the United Nations. Based on its results, we intend to 
make a proposal on the adoption of a special General 
Assembly  draft  resolution  in  support  of  the  efforts 
of  Central  Asia  to  ensure  security  and  enhancing 
regional  cooperation.  We  count  on  support  for  that 
proposal  by  the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the international community.
When  speaking  about  the  problems  of  ensuring 
security  and  stability  in  Central  Asia,  one  cannot 
overlook an issue as important as the joint use of the 
region’s  shared  water  resources.  We  fully  share  the 
position  of  the  Secretary-General  that  the  problems 
of “water, peace and security are inextricably linked” 
(S/PV.7959,  p.  2).  I  am  convinced  that  there  is  no 
alternative to addressing the problem of water besides 
equally taking into account the interests of the countries 
and  nations  of  the  region.  Uzbekistan  supports  the 
draft  conventions  on  the  use  of  water  resources  of 
the Amudarya and Syrdarya river basins, which were 
developed  by  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for 
Preventive Diplomacy.
I  would  like  to  once  again  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  one  of  the  most  acute  environmental 
problems  of  our  time:  the  Aral  Sea  catastrophe.  I  am 
holding  a  map  showing  the  Aral  Sea  tragedy  —  I 
believe that words are not necessary. Overcoming the 
consequences  of  the  drying  up  of  the  sea  requires 
the  active  consolidation  of  international  efforts.  We 
stand for the full implementation of the special United 
Nations  programme  to  provide  effective  assistance  to 
the  population  affected  by  the  Aral  Sea  crisis,  which 
was adopted this year.
The stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan is 
an important precondition to ensure not only regional 
security, but global security as well. We are convinced 
that  the  only  way  to  peace  in  Afghanistan  is  a  direct 
dialogue between the central Government and the main 
domestic  political  forces,  held  without  preconditions. 
The  negotiations  should  be  Afghan-led,  held  on  the 
territory of Afghanistan and under the auspices of the 
United Nations. The wise Afghan people have the right 
17-29275
15/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
to independently define their own destiny. We support 
the  appeal  of  the  Administration  of  United  States 
President Donald Trump to Afghanistan’s neighbouring 
States to promote the peace process and an inter-Afghan 
settlement.  Uzbekistan  will  continue  to  contribute 
to  the  economic  reconstruction  of  Afghanistan,  as 
well as to the development of its transport and energy 
infrastructure and the training of national personnel. I 
am convinced that Afghanistan must remain at the heart 
of  the  global  agenda.  The  efforts  of  the  international 
community should primarily be aimed at resolving the 
acute  social  and  economic  problems  of  Afghanistan. 
Our common determination to promote peace in such a 
long-suffering country should not wane.
The  aggravation  of  terrorist  threats  in  the  world, 
especially  in  recent  years,  indicates  that  the  use  of 
primarily  forceful  methods  of  counteraction  is  not 
justified.  Often,  efforts  are  reduced  to  combating  the 
consequences  of  challenges,  rather  than  addressing 
their  root  causes.  I  believe  that,  along  with  other 
factors,  ignorance  and  intolerance  are  at  the  heart 
of  international  terrorism  and  extremism.  In  that 
regard,  the  most  important  task  is  to  fight  for  the 
minds  of  people,  especially  young  people.  Most  of 
the crimes linked with extremist activity and violence 
are  committed  by  the  people  under  the  age  of  30. 
Today’s  youth  is  the  largest  generation  in  the  history 
of humankind, totalling 2 billion people. The planet’s 
future and well-being depend upon what kind of people 
our children will grow up to be.
Our  task  is  to  provide  conditions  for  the  self-
realization  of  the  youth  and  create  a  barrier  against 
the  spread  of  the  virus  of  the  ideology  of  violence. 
We  believe  that,  in  order  to  achieve  that,  we  need  to 
develop  necessary  multilateral  cooperation  in  the 
sphere of social support of the younger generation and 
bolster  the  protection  of  their  rights  and  interests.  In 
that  regard,  Uzbekistan  proposes  to  develop  a  United 
Nations  international  convention  on  the  rights  of 
youth, which would constitute a unified, international 
legal 
the  development  and 
implementation of youth policy, taking into account the 
conditions of globalization and the rapid development 
of  information  and  communication  technologies.  In 
our opinion, States that accede to the convention would 
make firm commitments in order to raise the level of 
awareness with regard to one of the main, vital priorities 
of their social policies.
instrument  aimed  at 
We consider communicating the humanistic essence 
of Islam to the broader world community to be one of 
the most important tasks at hand. We cherish our sacred 
religion as the focal point of time-honoured values. We 
strongly condemn and will never agree with those who 
equate  our  great  faith  with  violence  and  bloodshed. 
Islam  calls  upon  us  to  be  kind  and  peaceful.  It  calls 
for  the  preservation  of  genuine  humanity.  I  would 
like  to  especially  note  the  invaluable  contribution  of 
a  whole  line  of  outstanding  members  of  the  Central 
Asian  renaissance  to  the  development  of  the  Islamic 
and  world  civilization.  One  of  them,  Muhammad 
al-Bukhari, is acclaimed all over the world as the author 
of  Sahih  al-Bukhari,  the  second-most  important  book 
in  Islam  after  the  Qur’an.  In  order  to  preserve  and 
study his richest legacy and disseminate his teachings 
on  enlightened  Islam,  we  decided  to  establish  the 
Imam  Al-Bukhari  International  Research  Center  in 
Samarkand.  The  activities  of  the  Center  for  Islamic 
Civilization,  which  is  being  established  in  Tashkent, 
will contribute to the implementation of that task.
I  would  like  to  address  the  participants  at  this 
meeting  with  a  proposal  to  adopt  a  special  draft 
resolution  of  the  General  Assembly  on  education  and 
religious tolerance. Its main goal would be to promote 
universal  access  to  education  and  eradicate  illiteracy 
and ignorance. It would be designed to promote tolerance 
and  mutual  respect,  ensure  religious  freedom,  protect 
the  rights  of  believers  and  prevent  discrimination 
against them.
While  steadfastly  maintaining  its  non-aligned 
status,  Uzbekistan 
is  open  to  dialogue.  We  are 
interested in expanding cooperation with all partners in 
the name of peace, progress and prosperity. We see that 
cooperation  as  a  vital  precondition  for  the  successful 
implementation of the most important tasks of reform 
carried out in our country, the main focus of which is 
people, their needs and their interests.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Uzbekistan for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Shavkat Mirziyoyev, President of the Republic 
of  Uzbekistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
16/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
Address by Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the 
Republic of Armenia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Armenia.
into 
Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Armenia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President 
of the Republic of Armenia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Sargsyan  (spoke  in  Armenian;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I congratulate 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajcák  on  his  election  and  wish  him 
success  in  his  duties  as  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session. I also take this 
opportunity  once  again  to  congratulate  Mr.  António 
Guterres  upon  his  appointment  as  Secretary-General. 
We  wish  him  success  in  carrying  out  his  important 
duties. Armenia supports the priorities that Secretary-
General Guterres has declared.
In  2017,  we  mark  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
Armenia’s accession to the United Nations. On 2 March 
1992, the Armenian tricolour started flying at United 
Nations Headquarters, the logical and desired outcome 
of  the  Armenian  people’s  quest  to  exercise  their 
fundamental right to self-determination. Over the years, 
Armenia  became  a  full-fledged,  responsible  member 
of  the  international  community.  We  faced  numerous 
challenges,  but  we  withstood  them  with  dignity.  The 
Nagorno Karabakh conflict was the most important and 
daunting one. This is the fifth time that I speak from 
this rostrum, and again I need to address the Nagorno 
Karabakh  conflict.  I  would  have  preferred  to  talk  of 
peace,  progress  and  cooperation  but,  unfortunately, 
we are still far from that stage. Hence, it is my duty to 
explain why we are so far from that desirable point.
The  new  phase  of  the  Artsakh  people’s  struggle 
for self-determination began almost 30 years ago. The 
Armenians of Artsakh used peaceful calls to exercise 
their inalienable right to self-determination. Azerbaijan 
has always responded to such calls with the use of force. 
The policy of the Baku Government culminated in the 
massacre,  ethnic  cleansing  and  mass  deportation  of 
the Armenian population of Azerbaijan. Districts with 
once-flourishing Armenian populations are now devoid 
of  Armenians,  and  the  Government  of  Azerbaijan 
continues  with  its  policy  of  systematically  destroying 
the vast Armenian cultural and spiritual heritage on the 
territories under its control. It is obvious that in those 
circumstances the people of Artsakh have had no other 
choice  than  to  resort  to  self-defence.  Azerbaijan  did 
not  learn  any  lessons  from  the  perilous  war  of  1992-
1994, its aftermath and negotiations. Last year in April, 
Azerbaijan  unleashed  a  four-day  war,  which  proved 
that Azerbaijan’s objective is to exterminate the people 
of Artsakh.
In  the  course  of  the  military  hostilities,  the 
Azerbaijan  armed  forces  committed  a  number  of  war 
crimes against the civilian population and prisoners of 
war. I find it worth mentioning that one serviceman who 
committed such atrocities received a high State award, 
and  the  President  of  Azerbaijan  personally  decorated 
him in front of the cameras.
For  years  hate  speech  against  Armenians  was 
made  part  and  parcel  of  the  Azerbaijan  State  policy. 
It is firmly part of its school curriculums and poisons 
the upbringing and thinking of its younger generation. 
For  years  a  number  of  intergovernmental  and  other 
specialized  organizations  dealing  with  racism  and 
xenophobia have raised the alarm.
All of this leads us to the conclusion that the Artsakh 
people’s  exercise  of  the  right  to  self-determination  is 
of vital importance. In that regard, I express the views 
of Armenia, the Artsakh and of all Armenians all over 
the  globe.  I  bring  this  message  from  Yerevan,  where 
the  sixth  Armenia  diaspora  conference  is  currently 
taking place.
Everyone  should  be  aware  that  for  the  Artsakh 
people, who are building democracy, Azerbaijan simply 
symbolizes  medieval  backwardness.  Azerbaijan  has 
no  legal  or  moral  grounds  whatsoever  to  present  any 
claims  on  Artsakh.  Artsakh  has  never  been  part  of 
independent Azerbaijan, and it is not fair to attempt to 
annex Artsakh to that State order. Today free Artsakh 
is an established democratic society. Our shared motto 
and commitment of leaving no one behind should be the 
hallmark guiding the work of the United Nations family. 
For that very reason, I believe that the people of Artsakh 
should  never  be  excluded  from  the  implementation  of 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
I strongly believe that the unresolved status of the 
Nagorno Karabakh conflict should have no impact on 
17-29275
17/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
the people of Artsakh as they exercise their rights. It is, 
first and foremost, about the inalienable rights of any 
human being, the right to life, to organize public life, 
to freely form one’s own Government, to communicate 
unimpededly  with  the  outer  world,  and  about  many 
other rights. Armenia consistently contributes and will 
contribute to the improvement of the living conditions 
of  the  Artsakh  people  and  to  its  sustainable  and 
democratic development. No one has a right to create 
hindrances  to  the  implementation  of  initiatives  and 
projects  to  that  effect.  The  legal  status  of  Artsakh, 
or,  to  be  more  precise,  the  lack  of  international  legal 
recognition, is not an impediment to the exercise of the 
rights of the men and women living there.
We  strongly  believe  that  there  is  no  alternative 
to  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
conflict.  Right  now,  from  this  rostrum,  I  reiterate 
our  commitment  to  that  effect.  Meanwhile,  everyone 
should be aware that the Nagorno Karabakh issue is a 
human rights issue, one that can be resolved exclusively 
through one of the fundamental and inalienable human 
rights — the people’s right to self-determination. At the 
end of the day, whatever option for resolving the conflict 
we arrive at, the Republic of Artsakh should not enjoy 
a status and liberty inferior to the one it enjoys today. 
Azerbaijan will recognize and respect the right of the 
people of Artsakh to decide their own future through the 
free expression of their will. All available international 
and domestic mechanisms should guarantee the security 
of the Armenian population of Artsakh. All remaining 
issues are collateral in nature and will be resolved in a 
logical and fair manner in conjunction with the general 
resolution process.
When I last spoke from this rostrum and addressed 
the process of international recognition of the Armenian 
genocide (see A/71/PV.17), I considered it my duty to 
express our gratitude to all those nations, one by one, 
that  had  recognized  the  horrendous  crime  that  was 
committed against my people by the Ottoman Empire. 
It  is  my  duty  to  express  gratitude  here  to  all  those 
countries  that  displayed  honour  and  responsibility 
by  recognizing,  or  reiterating  their  position  on,  the 
Armenian  genocide.  I  thank  them  for  that  initiative, 
regardless of the format and language adopted. I thank 
the numerous countries and individuals, State bodies, 
regional  entities  and  organizations  that  called  things 
by their proper names. That is indeed important, since 
denial  paves  the  way  for  new  crimes  of  genocide.  In 
that context, we recall that next year the United Nations 
family  will  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Convention  for  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of 
the  Crime  of  Genocide.  Armenia  will  propose  a  new 
initiative  on  that  occasion,  and  we  invite  everyone  to 
join us and support it.
Nevertheless,  we  have  never  made  recognition 
of  the  Armenian  genocide  a  precondition  for  the 
normalization  of  bilateral  relations  between  Armenia 
and  Turkey.  Moreover,  it  was  at  the  initiative  of 
Armenia  that  a  normalization  process  was  launched, 
resulting  in  the  conclusion  of  the  Zurich  protocols  in 
October 2009. Those documents have not been ratified 
thus  far;  instead  they  have  been  left  in  some  dark 
drawer in Ankara. The Government of Turkey came up 
with  preposterous  preconditions  for  their  ratification 
that run counter to the letter and spirit of the protocols. 
I expressed the clear-cut views of the Armenian people 
on  that  issue  three  years  ago  (see  A/69/PV.6),  when 
I  spoke  from  this  rostrum.  Now  the  time  is  ripe  for 
additional explanations.
The leadership of Turkey is mistaken if it thinks that 
it can keep those documents hostage forever and ratify 
them only at the most opportune occasion from its point 
of view. The protocols were negotiated in the existing 
circumstances at the time in order to find solutions to 
the  then  existing  issues.  Armenia  will  declare  those 
two  protocols  null  and  void,  since  there  has  been  no 
progress  towards  their  implementation.  We  will  enter 
the spring of 2018 without those, as our experience has 
demonstrated, futile Protocols.
Armenia  nevertheless  continues  to  believe  that 
any  two  neighbouring  States  need  to  establish  and 
enjoy normal relations in order to address any possible 
disagreement  between  them  and  find  solutions.  That 
is the credo we are guided by in our engagement with 
various  integration  processes.  Armenia  today  is  an 
active  member  of  the  Eurasian  Economic  Union  and 
spares  no  effort  in  contributing  to  the  unimpeded 
movement of goods and services in that large economic 
area.  In  that  way,  we  promote  welfare  for  all.  We 
have  already  registered  certain  achievements  in  that 
regard, and that makes us feel hopeful for the future. 
We also plan to conclude an Armenia-European Union 
comprehensive  and  enhanced  partnership  agreement 
in  November,  which,  in  our  view,  will  help  give  new 
impetus to the institutional reforms being implemented 
in Armenia.
18/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
The current instability in the Middle East regretfully 
remains  as  a  serious  challenge.  It  is  with  great  pain 
that we have been following the crisis in Syria and the 
humanitarian situation there, which has brought about 
the  suffering  of  the  civilian  population,  including  the 
country’s Armenian community. Armenia is doing what 
it can to mitigate the suffering of the Syrian people by 
providing humanitarian assistance. We also express our 
willingness  to  engage  in  possible  discussions  on  the 
peacemaking efforts in Syria under the United Nations 
auspices and with an appropriate mandate.
I  have  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations  family 
can ensure the needed cooperation to address modern 
global and regional challenges. It is with that objective 
in mind that Armenia participates in a number of the 
United Nations peacekeeping operations. Moreover, we 
stand ready to increase our contribution in Lebanon and 
Mali — respectively, to the United Nations Interim Force 
in  Lebanon  and  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali.
As  a  landlocked  country  with  scarce  natural 
resources  located  in  a  complex  region,  Armenia  has 
continuously  emphasized  that  it  considers  human 
beings to be its most valuable resource. That is indeed 
the  case  both  for  Armenia  and  for  the  whole  United 
Nations  family  —  we  should  focus  on  people  and  we 
should  strive  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a 
sustainable planet.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Armenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Serzh  Sargsyan,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Armenia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, 
President of the Republic of Costa Rica
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of Costa Rica.
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Luis  Guillermo  Solís 
Rivera, President of the Republic of Costa Rica, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President Solís Rivera (spoke in Spanish):  Costa 
Rica  congratulates  the  President  on  his  election 
and  welcomes  the  priorities  that  he  has  established 
for  his  tenure.  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my  country’s 
commitment  to  working  with  him  and  all  Member 
States  to  achieve  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, to help swiftly honour the pledges made 
in Paris and Marrakesh to mitigate climate change, to 
implement  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  and  to  strengthen  global  governance  and 
multilateralism as areas of supreme importance for the 
maintenance of international peace and stability.
I also wish to convey a message of solidarity and 
sympathy to the people and the Government of Mexico 
for  the  human  and  material  losses  resulting  from  the 
earthquake  that  struck  its  capital  and  surrounding 
areas today.
Every  word,  statement  and  action  adopted  in  this 
Hall keeps alive Kant’s hope and inspiring confidence 
in  humankind.  To  build  a  world  based  on  the  2030 
Agenda, the Paris Agreement, the 20-year review of the 
implementation of the Beijing Declaration and Platform 
for  Action,  the  treaties  on  the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons and the treaties on nuclear disarmament and 
prohibition  is  an  acknowledgement  of  the  multiple 
challenges  that  human  communities  face.  They  also 
evoke our sincere conviction in reaching globally agreed 
responses to the most urgent threats to humankind.
fought 
Those milestones are recent pieces in the renowned 
understanding of those who, before us and in pressing 
circumstances, 
for  dignified  coexistence, 
for  freedom  as  a  life-long  mandate  and  for  keeping 
hope  alive  as  a  daily  imperative.  Our  duty  as  leaders 
consists  in  leading  our  nations  towards  sustainable 
human  development.  Therein  lies  the  ethical  power 
of  our  actions,  both  in  domestic  affairs  and  in  the 
Assembly — the importance of which calls for an active 
commitment  to  ensure  the  well-being  of  our  nations 
and to fight against inequality, injustice and violence. 
It  means  inconveniencing  those  who  are  opposed  to 
the  world  being  a  radiant,  open  and  unbiased  hearth 
for  us  all,  rather  than  a  free  aspiration  of  resistance 
and misunderstanding.
In  the  face  of  that  wall  of  short-sightedness 
or  malice,  Costa  Rica  has  always  chosen  honest 
work — the tireless ability to provide for one another 
with generosity, despite our small size. My country has 
chosen  compassion,  solidarity  and  peacebuilding  as 
17-29275
19/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
the  main  values  in  fully  respecting  human  rights.  In 
that  framework,  it  has  made  international  law,  active 
multilateralism  and  the  rejection  of  environmental 
destruction  as  the  ideal  mechanisms  for  resolving 
conflicts domestically and among States. That, in short, 
will always be our commitment to humankind.
In  September  2016,  Costa  Rica  became 
the 
first  country  to  enter  into  a  national  pact  to  meet 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs),  with 
the  concrete  step  of  involving  representatives  at  the 
highest levels in the country, local representatives and 
representatives  from  the  business  sector,  churches, 
social organizations and academia — all of which have 
actively  committed  to  seeking  the  implementation  of 
those comprehensive goals. Through that initiative, we 
have aligned our 2015-2018 national development plan 
with the Sustainable Development Goals and the sectoral 
goals  of  national  and  local  programmes  and  projects. 
Additionally,  we  established  a  functional  strategy  for 
the planning, implementation and monitoring of those 
goals  —  which  operates  on  the  basis  of  consultation, 
dialogue and accountability.
Two  years  ago,  I  stated  in  this  very  Hall  (see 
A/70/PV.19)  that  Costa  Rica  would  commit  to  the 
design and implementation of the adequate instruments 
to  wage  a  real  and  sustainable  campaign  against 
poverty.  Given  its  multidimensional  character,  we 
adopted  a  multidimensional  poverty  index  along  with 
a  multi-actor  functional  governance  structure,  which 
was  one  of  the  most  important  factors  in  the  poverty 
reduction achieved for the first time in seven years in 
Costa  Rica  —  through  a  coordinated  and  structured 
ownership  in  decision-making,  initiative  design  and 
strategy implementation at a national level.
In the same vein, Costa Rica and 42 other countries 
gathered here presented a voluntary national report on 
the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Goals  during 
Sustainable  Development  of 
the  United  Nations. 
Moreover, Costa Rica and the other States members of 
the Central American Integration System sponsored the 
harmonization of the regional Central America agenda 
with the same objectives.
Costa  Rica  has  understood  and  taken  on  the 
integrated  universal  and  multidimensional  nature  of 
the SDGs. We therefore believe that its implementation 
requires  policy  and  public  management  innovation. 
Leaving  no  one  behind  is  a  State  and  Government 
responsibility, but those entities cannot act alone. That 
is why the 2030 Agenda must be based on consensus, 
the creation of synergies and the creative participation 
and  commitment  of  various  actors  and  productive 
sectors  —  above  all,  in  the  commitment  and  call 
to  action  of  the  Assembly.  Leaving  no  one  behind  is 
more  than  just  a  slogan,  it  is  a  forceful  call  to  action 
for  all  the  segments  that  make  up  our  societies.  That 
is why I commend the contents and the quality of the 
Secretary-General’s report for the repositioning of the 
United Nations development system so as to honour the 
ambitious goals of the 2030 Agenda.
that  regard,  we  must  consider 
I believe that is the appropriate path to coordinate 
and carry out comprehensive actions that respond to the 
current  and  future  needs  of  sustainable  development. 
In 
the  needs  of 
middle-income  countries.  I  believe  it  is  advisable  to 
continue the efforts carried out thus far and to continue 
to  promote  the  interests  of  middle-income  countries, 
with a view to the United Nations offering them more 
efficient, targeted and better coordinated support.
Costa  Rica  wishes 
to  stress 
the 
the  United  Nations 
importnace 
of  countries  and 
system 
reconsidering the concept of per capita income as the 
gauge  for  determining  a  country’s  progress.  Only  a 
multidimensional  view  of  development,  especially 
a  multidimensional  view  of  poverty,  will  allow  us  to 
understand  the  needs  of  the  people  and  families  and 
the individuals that make it up, as it relates to access 
to health care, the elimination of inequality, promoting 
gender equality and attention to social, economic and 
environmental  weakness,  among  other  challenges  of 
developing nations.
With due respect but also with urgency, I call on the 
Secretary-General to promote open spaces to establish 
work  strategies  that  would  strengthen  the  capacities 
of  such  countries  and  allow  them  to  cooperate  more 
effectively with other middle-income countries and with 
less-developed countries. For those countries, reaching 
the Sustainable Development Goals will be impossible 
unless  economic,  social  and  environmental  problems 
are incorporated into a path of comprehensive action.
As  a  universal  forum,  the  United  Nations  has  a 
privileged  position  for  consolidating  the  consultation 
process  of  middle-income  countries.  Amartya  Sen 
has  said  with  incontrovertible  authority  that  to  speak 
of  the  development  of  a  particular  society,  we  must 
analyse the lives of those who live within it, and that 
20/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
there can be no economic success without considering 
the  quality  of  life  of  communities,  which  is  one  and 
the same with that of each of its members. That thesis 
gives  special  attention  to  minority  groups  that  have 
been  historically  excluded  from  fully  exercising  their 
rights and denied the understanding of the societies in 
which they live — especially if their nature requires the 
adoption of targeted processes in order to achieve the 
2030 Agenda.
That  complexity  requires  taking  a  closer  look  at 
productive  sectors,  such  as  family  agriculture  —  the 
primary source of income for 70 per cent of the global 
rural  population,  that  is,  40  per  cent  of  the  global 
population.  Close  to  500  million  small  farms  provide 
80  per  cent  of  the  food  consumed  by  the  developing 
world. In many cases, they are the historical basis for 
the productive development of entire nations, as is the 
case  in  my  country.  Family  agriculture  has  a  crucial 
role to play in achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals, as it integrates the goals and is the basis for the 
sustainable  production  of  food,  for  the  environmental 
management  of  rural  and  marine  territory  and  for 
biodiversity  —  as  a  source  of  significant  cultural 
expressions  of  each  people.  It  is,  without  a  doubt,  a 
fundamental  pillar  of  the  integrated  development  of 
nations. In that regard, alongside a group of countries 
from  different  parts  of  the  world,  Costa  Rica  will  be 
honoured  to  present  a  draft  resolution  at  the  current 
session to declare the decade of family agriculture 2019-
2028  —  inspired  by  the  success  of  the  International 
Year of Family Agriculture, adopted by the Assembly 
in 2014 as resolution 66/222.
Gender  equality  continues 
to  be  a  goal  of 
quintessential  importance  in  all  nations.  Every  day, 
more  women  strive  to  be  fully  recognized  and  to 
exercise  their  rights.  Their  struggle  is  inherent  in  the 
building of truly democratic societies and of peaceful 
coexistence  in  all  countries.  Moreover,  without  equal 
rights for women, it will be impossible to achieve the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  by  the  target  date  set 
by the Organization.
The literature is vast and the political declarations 
are forceful in highlighting the noticeable democratic 
gaps  and  the  resulting  detriment  to  development 
due  to  the  persistence  of  patriarchal  and  chauvinist 
structures  forged  in  another  time  but  revived  today 
absent  education  regarding  human  rights  and  respect 
for democratic coexistence. Gender inequality is not a 
topic that is foreign to us, nor a phenomenon that unfolds 
covertly  in  the  internal  relations  of  countries  beyond 
our purview, but rather it is occurring in front of our 
very eyes. Let us take a moment to look around us. It 
is imperative to take joint action to ensure that equality 
in  this  important  organ.  My  country  has  understood 
that  commitment  and  welcomes  work  proposals  from 
International Gender Champions that seek to revert the 
trend  of  gender  inequality  within  the  United  Nations 
and  to  take  concrete  actions  for  the  seventy-second 
session by calling on the Gender Champions to promote 
equilibrium  within  each  delegation  that  attends  the 
general  debate  during  the  Assembly’s  week  of  high-
level debate.
Women’s  effective  participation  in  the  economic 
sectors of their societies has a deep and significant impact 
on  other  areas  of  independence,  as  an  economically 
empowered  woman  is  a  person  with  the  tools  and 
capabilities  necessary  to  make  a  positive  impact  on 
her  community  and  her  family.  While  it  is  true  that 
many  women  work,  are  entrepreneurs,  are  employed 
in the public and private sectors and are scientists and 
artists, millions of others work in the informal sector 
or  do  domestic  work  and  unpaid  care.  It  is  estimated 
that women’s unpaid work is equivalent to $10 billion 
per  year,  or  13  per  cent  of  the  global  gross  domestic 
product. However, if I were to choose a single insulting 
and absurd example of this discrimination, the one that 
angers me the most is that the average woman’s salary 
is  25  per  cent  lower  the  average  man’s  salary  for  the 
same job.
I had the honour to co-chair the High-level Panel 
on  Women’s  Economic  Empowerment,  along  with 
Ms.  Simona  Scarpaleggia,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of 
IKEA Switzerland, at the request of former Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  UN-Women.  The  final 
report  of  the  Panel,  in  which  women  from  the  entire 
world participated, concluded,
“that  it  is  essential  to  expand  social  protection 
coverage  and  access  to  justice  with  due  process; 
that  care  is  also  an  economic  activity  whose 
contribution  should  be  reflected  in  countries’ 
productivity; that men should share responsibility 
for fulfilling this work and private companies and 
public  institutions  are  called  on  to  encourage  it; 
that women have the challenge of accessing digital 
and  financial  services,  as  well  as  of  being  deed 
owners in land redistribution; that companies must 
recognize  women’s  leadership;  that  it  is  urgent 
that  States’  macroeconomic  policies  empower 
17-29275
21/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
women  and  promote  decent  jobs  for  them;  that 
laws  that  discriminate  must  be  amended  and 
others  that  encourage  equality  must  be  enacted; 
that  affirmative  policies  on  hiring  women  must 
be  extended  to  public  institutions  and  private 
companies  and  women-owned  businesses  must 
be promoted; and that it is necessary to reinforce 
support  to  informal  women  workers  and  women 
agricultural workers”.
Of course, we must adopt a multidimensional and 
intersectoral strategy to address the barriers to women’s 
economic  empowerment.  In  that  regard,  Costa  Rica 
has  in  place  a  public  policy  that  guarantees  women’s 
employability  on  an  equal  basis.  The  main  objective 
of  this  policy  is  to  eliminate  women’s  lack  of  access 
to,  and  permanence  in,  the  workplace.  The  private 
sector is the key actor in that, as it is the main source 
of employment and national development. This practice 
is  part  of  the  new  trend  in  international  markets  and 
the global economy, where companies seek to increase 
their productivity through innovation, the improvement 
of the work environment, the attraction of talent and the 
adoption of values and practices based on human rights.
Nevertheless, we recognize that multiple challenges 
remain 
towards  substantive 
equality for women. We are determined to incorporate 
women  in  paid  work,  with  measures  that  eradicate 
gender-based  division  in  the  workplace  and  facilitate 
economic independence and quality of life as necessary 
conditions for the full enjoyment of human rights.
to  making  progress 
With the Assembly’s permission, for just a moment, 
I would like to convey this message in English to all the 
women who, with their work, raise up their families and 
local and national communities.
(spoke in English)
Today  I  extend  my  recognition  to  all  women  on 
Earth. They are capable enough to move ahead despite 
the rigid and rude patriarchal heritage that tends to not 
acknowledge  their  abilities  and  accomplishments  and 
that  fills  with  doubts  and  dangers  their  road  towards 
full  autonomy.  They  are  an  example  for  others:  their 
internal  strength  leads  them  to  break  the  chains  of 
oppression,  rise  above  the  misery  of  migration  and 
forced displacement and free entire communities from 
various forms of slavery. And in the grim march of their 
lives, they devote themselves with great passion to their 
people;  they  are  sensitive  and  protective  even  when 
their love and generosity are not understood or repaid. 
They are masters of resilience, since they have learned 
how to deal with bad people and painful moments. They 
know how to fulfil their roles of mother, partner, friend 
or leader, and they dedicate themselves to them even if 
they need to sacrifice themselves because of a superior 
responsibility,  a  greater  good  that  they  accomplish 
with  sincere  devotion,  aware  of  the  risks  and  bearing 
in mind that they are an example to other women that 
follow in their steps.
Definitely, it is not easy being a Khaleesi. Whether 
in  fiction  or  in  real  life,  the  goal  of  equality  is  much 
greater  than  what  our  circumstances  relegate  us  to. 
Today is a good day to look at ourselves in the mirror, 
start to create truly equal relations and bring this long 
night to an end.
(spoke in Spanish)
My  generation’s  grandparents  could  not  have 
foreseen  the  consequences  that  industrialization  and 
business  models  would  have  on  the  climate.  We,  the 
grandparents  of  future  generations,  can.  That  is  why 
we  cannot  be  indifferent.  It  is  true  that  for  decades 
humankind  has  had  the  resources  and  scientific 
knowledge  to  precisely  measure  the  behaviour  of 
endless  variables  related  to  the  environment  and  that 
it  can  project  future  scenarios  for  weather  conditions 
in  different  parts  of  the  world  and  the  impact  they 
would  have  on  humans  and  their  social,  productive 
and  cultural  activities.  These  capabilities  commit  us 
at levels seldom encountered throughout the history of 
humankind. They saddle us with an ethical and moral 
responsibility about the future of life on Earth and the 
terms  of  the  interactions  among  human  groups  and 
between humans and their environment.
There is enough evidence to support the idea that 
a  transformative  solution  to  climate  change  is  within 
human  capabilities.  That  is  why  we  welcome  the 
French initiative of a global pact for the environment, 
which  would  complement  the  legal  framework  of  the 
international agreements adopted by the United Nations 
in 1966. We are also pleased to be a member of the group 
of  friends,  which  under  the  leadership  of  Slovenia, 
Switzerland, Morocco and Maldives, promotes the draft 
resolution on human rights and the environment that is 
being coordinated in the Human Rights Council. Also, 
along with countries of the Independent Association of 
Latin America and the Caribbean, we have exercised a 
positive  leadership  position  in  the  negotiations  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
22/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
Change,  building  bridges  between  negotiating  groups 
and making proposals.
develop  from  the  use  and  sustainable  management  of 
marine-coastal resources.
Our  countries  must  adopt  increasingly  ambitious 
positions  on  environmental  conservation  and  in  the 
fight against climate change and understand the right to 
live in a healthy and ecologically balanced environment 
as an essential right of every human being and of future 
generations. The international community can count on 
the unconditional and unrestricted support of the Costa 
Rican people and Government in promoting this vital 
agenda. It is my pleasure to inform the plenary that, with 
the  shared  leadership  of  Chile  and  Costa  Rica,  Latin 
America  is  moving  towards  establishing  a  regional 
instrument  on  the  rights  of  access  to  information, 
participation and justice on environmental matters. The 
initiative  aims  to  produce  more  effective  agreements 
in 
the  context  of  socio-environmental  conflicts 
through  an  environmental  governance  programme  in 
which the State acts as a facilitator in agreement and 
decision-making  spaces  with  the  participation  of  all 
interested  and  affected  stakeholders.  It  includes  the 
principles of precaution, reparation and non-regression.
We  reaffirm  our  intention  to  guide  our  economy 
towards  carbon  neutrality,  as  part  of  the  pre-2020 
voluntary actions, and we are expanding our long-term 
commitments  towards  the  in-depth  decarbonization 
of  the  economy.  Our  electrical  grid  continues  to  be 
an example of planning and renewable energy use for 
the world, thanks to long periods of energy generation 
based  solely  on  renewable  sources  —  in  water,  wind, 
geothermal sources, biomass and sunlight. In addition 
to the offsetting process of our forests, we are reducing 
emissions in critical sectors, such as transport, livestock 
and  waste.  We  have  set  an  absolute  emission  limit 
for  2030  that  is  equivalent  to  a  25  per  cent  decrease 
in  emissions  as  compared  with  2012.  That  places  us 
in  a  privileged  position  to  become  a  green  centre  for 
management,  innovation  and  knowledge  transfer.  We 
invite our strategic partners to join this effort.
It  is  clear  that  we  cannot  not  improve  the  health 
of our oceans if we do not change our land production 
and  consumption.  In  that  regard,  our  recently  issued 
national wastewater sanitation policy and our national 
strategy for plastics replacement seek to stop pollution 
resulting  from  land-based  activities  and  reverse  their 
cumulative effects. To that end, straws, coffee stirrers 
and plastic containers are to be replaced. In addition, 
we are working to end destructive fishing practices and 
to  coordinate  efforts  so  that  coastal  populations  can 
Along  the  same  conservation  lines,  we  presented 
our national wetlands policy, which seeks to ecologically 
rehabilitate the Costa Rican wetland ecosystems and to 
promote actions for their sustainable and participatory 
use,  as  well  as  the  establishment  of  a  framework 
planned  over  the  long  term  in  order  to  restore  the 
national wetland systems and ensure its responsible use 
in order to contribute to improving the quality of life of 
the communities that use it.
We believe that all those efforts not only encourage 
a focus on and the mitigation of climate change, but they 
also have an impact on human rights and public policies 
that  promote  gender  equality,  non-discrimination  and 
the enjoyment of the rights of indigenous peoples. That 
is  why  we  also  welcome  the  process  to  prepare  the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration 
and the global compact on refugees.
In that regard, I would like to recall the principle 
of  the  progressivity  of  human  rights  —  an  essential 
principle  that  implies  expanding  the  range  of  rights 
granted,  from  which  we  cannot  go  back.  But  above 
all, it entails the idea that we are called on to provide 
our  inhabitants  with  increasingly  more  and  better 
guarantees that allow the free and full exercise of each 
of those rights.
The  twentieth  century  witnessed  some  of  the 
greatest  and  most  atrocious  conflicts  that  humankind 
has  experienced.  The  end  of  the  Second  World  War 
marked  an  even  greater  threat,  one  with  the  potential 
to  destroy  our  species.  The  nuclear  arms  race  was, 
for  much  of  the  second  half  of  the  last  century,  a 
constant concern that threatened the continuance of the 
human family.
Costa  Rica  views  with  great  concern  the  events 
developing  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  increase  in 
the  warmongering  rhetoric  on  that  part  of  the  Asian 
continent implies a serious and real threat to the peace 
and  stability  not  only  of  the  region,  but  of  the  world. 
Costa  Rica  is  amazed  by  how,  almost  three  decades 
after the end of the Cold War, ghosts that we thought 
had  been  banished  forever  reappeared  in  a  world 
where there is need for more medicine, not rifles, more 
schools,  not  barracks,  and  more  projects  to  provide 
drinkable water than facilities to produce weapons of 
mass destruction.
17-29275
23/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
That is why we strongly and vehemently condemn 
the  nuclearization  of 
the  Korean  peninsula.  We 
will  always  support  dialogue,  active  diplomacy  and 
multilateralism.  We  call  on  the  parties  involved 
and  on  the  Security  Council  to  take  an  active  role 
in  avoiding  escalations  of  tension  that  could  lead  to 
dire  consequences  and  from  which  there  is  a  risk  of 
no  return.  We  cannot  remain  silent  or  stand  idly  by. 
Therefore,  together  with  the  Secretary-General,  we 
demand that the Security Council act immediately, as 
is its responsibility, to contain this situation.
We view with hope, joy and pride the fact that the 
Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  was 
finally approved in July of this year. I congratulate Costa 
Rican Ambassador Elayne Whyte on that process. As 
President of the United Nations conference to negotiate 
a 
to  prohibit  nuclear 
weapons,  leading  towards  their  total  elimination,  she 
led the process with courage and great skill. That effort, 
together with that of the participating delegations, made 
a dream come true after more than seven decades.
legally  binding 
instrument 
The  Treaty  is  a  strong  message  that  most  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  do  not  support,  do 
not  accept  and  do  not  consider  nuclear  weapons  as 
legitimate, and that the international community clearly 
states  that  nuclear  weapons  are  not  only  immoral, 
ethically repugnant, but are, henceforth, illegal. A new 
norm  of  international  law  that  absolutely  prohibits 
nuclear  weapons  in  all  circumstances  is  therefore 
established  and  provides  a  solid  and  legally  binding 
framework  for  the  destruction  and  total  elimination 
of  nuclear  weapons  in  a  transparent,  irreversible  and 
verifiable manner within specified time frames.
As  an  unarmed  democracy  that  bases  its  defence 
entirely  on  international  law,  we  are  satisfied  that,  in 
addition  to  prohibiting  the  development,  production, 
manufacture,  transfer,  possession,  storage,  location, 
installation  and  deployment  of  nuclear  weapons, 
the  Treaty  explicitly  prohibits  the  threat  of  its  use, 
thereby  also  banning  so-called  nuclear  deterrence 
security doctrines.
Many will say that this entire effort is meaningless, 
since none of the nuclear Powers wanted to be part of 
it. With respect, I tell them they are wrong. The desire 
of the 122 countries that approved the text of the Treaty 
is the legitimate voice of peoples who love peace and 
defend humankind. Any effort to support disarmament 
will  never  be  pointless.  Supporting  peace  will  never 
be a mistake. Costa Rica applauds those 122 countries 
and  all  those  that  will  sign  the  Treaty  tomorrow,  and 
urgently calls on others to join in signing it, so that we 
can ensure a future for us and for those who will come 
after us so that we can continue to build the world we 
are dreaming of.
Costa  Rica  is  constantly  shocked  by  the  terrorist 
attacks  that  unfortunately  happen  everywhere  in  the 
world almost every week of the year. Once again, we want 
to express our absolute and unequivocal condemnation 
of  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations,  no 
matter  who  commits  it,  wherever  it  is  committed  or 
whatever its purpose, and we stress the need to bring its 
perpetrators to justice. The fight against terrorism must 
be  framed  in  strict  observance  of  international  law, 
including human rights law, international humanitarian 
law and international refugee law.
I wish to emphasize the crucial role of international 
law  as  a  legitimate  mechanism  for  settling  disputes 
among  States,  which  we  must  resolve.  In  that  regard, 
considering  that  unilateral  economic  sanctions  are 
not  efficient  ways  to  punish  Governments  but  can 
seriously harm the rights of peoples to well-being and 
development,  I  once  again  would  like  to  express  the 
opposition of my country to the embargo that the United 
States has imposed against Cuba for 55 years, with high 
human, economic and social costs for its population.
Sixty-nine  years  ago  Costa  Rica  decided 
to 
exchange  weapons  and  soldiers  for  notebooks  and 
teachers.  Sixty-nine  years  ago  Costa  Rica  decided  to 
establish,  strengthen  and  promote  international  law 
as  the  civilized  way  to  resolve  its  differences  with 
others. Today, 69 years later, Costa Rica continues to 
believe that.
The  original  goal  of  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations  was  to  save  future  generations  from  the 
scourge of war. The world has changed in a dizzying 
way  since  1945.  The  threats  and  challenges  to  peace, 
stability  and  global  security  are  increasingly  diverse 
and complex. However, there is something that has not 
changed one iota: the intrinsic and natural impulse to 
strive untiringly towards the most dignified and highest 
universal values based on law and towards the prevalence 
of institutions over brute force, of multilateralism over 
smaller, narrower and pettier national interests. That is 
the essence of this institution: to achieve the well-being 
of all nations as a whole by sustaining peace in each of 
them. It is not the opposite. It is not to achieve the well-
24/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
being  of  each  nation  in  order  to  achieve  global  well-
being, but rather it is in the world’s interest to uphold 
the interests and well-being of our individual nations.
The  Andalusian  poet  Federico  García  Lorca  said 
that theatre is the poetry that rises from the page and 
becomes  human,  and  becoming  human,  speaks  and 
yells, cries and despairs. It is our duty now to take action 
based on our rhetoric and to go out into the world and 
make it all possible. We must restore hope to the hearts 
of the world’s citizens and ensure that that hope leads 
to a life of dignity that enables them to fully enjoy their 
rights and freedoms. The fight to uphold human rights 
is historic and long-standing endeavour. Never before 
have the levels of education and peace been so high and 
the number of conflicts so low. That does not mean that 
we should reduce our mobilization efforts and become 
complacent. It means that, in spite of it all and although 
war and structural violence still plague many regions 
of the world, human society remains on the right path, 
in no small measure due to the Organization’s efforts.
We  own  our  future.  In  spite  of  the  pain  caused 
by  injustice  and  perpetual  and  pervasive  irrational 
behaviour,  there  are  more  people  who  believe  that 
happiness, 
peace, 
forgiveness  and  reconciliation  are  possible  —  many 
more than those who promote death, pain, torture and 
militarization  and  spread  fear,  which  all  thwart  our 
beautiful creative capacity.
solidarity, 
freedom, 
justice, 
This  will  be  the  last  time  that  I  address  the 
Assembly  as  President  of  Costa  Rica.  Next  year,  as 
my country fulfils a decades-old civic duty yet again, 
my  people  will  send  a  new  representative  to  address 
an  Organization  of  which  we  are  so  proud.  That  will 
happen  repeatedly  in  future  because  a  democracy’s 
presidential mandate calls for the perpetual renewal of 
its leadership. I have been pondering this moment for 
several  months.  On  behalf  of  all  representatives  and 
their  children,  I  would  like  to  dedicate  these  closing 
words to my sons and daughters. 
Future generations also deserve to be acknowledged 
in this universal forum because, in many ways, they are 
the beneficiaries of the solutions their parents brought 
to  the  table,  both  metaphorically  and  in  the  deepest 
human  sense.  I  would  like  Mónica,  Cristina,  Beatriz, 
Diego,  Ignacio  and  little  Inés  to  know  that  each  time 
a father or mother steps up to this rostrum to promote 
peace and justice, reconciliation and solidarity, it is with 
them and their present and future in mind. I would like 
them to know that each time a father or mother takes 
the floor to promote human rights, gender equality and 
the importance of protecting the environment from the 
irrational forces of human greed or consumerism, they 
do it out of deep concern for their well-being and that of 
future generations. I would like them to also know that 
their father, and before him other Costa Rican mothers 
and  fathers  who  stood  before  the  Assembly,  did  so 
proud to represent a people who are full of dignity, hard 
working and courageous. They clamour for peace and 
seek  to  build  it  day  by  day.  They  will  always  uphold 
human  rights  as  our  universal  family’s  highest  good. 
That should make them proud and happy. They should 
be proud to be part of an ongoing story that, like the 
waves  of  the  ocean  will  happen  time  and  again,  just 
as  the  world  continues  to  have  hopes  and  dreams  for 
human  progress.  They  should  be  happy  because  they 
know that our efforts to promote justice and peace have 
not been and will not be in vain. 
I hope that the United Nations will continue to be 
the preferred forum for fostering understanding among 
the peoples of the world. It will not be a conflict-free 
environment  because,  unfortunately,  that  is  not  our 
species’  default  state,  but  it  could  be  a  meeting  point 
where people can reach agreement, based on the higher 
aspirations  of  human  progress  that  makes  survival 
possible. I also hope that this session can shed light on 
demilitarization  and  denuclearization,  which  are  the 
only ways to ensure our survival, beyond all efforts to 
guarantee it. 
I also sincerely hope, with all my heart and soul, 
that  all  nations  represented  here  today  are  happy,  at 
peace and able to adhere to the wise biblical admonition 
to beat swords into ploughshares. It is simply another 
way of saying love your neighbour as you love yourself.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Costa Rica for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Luis Guillermo Solís Rivera, President of the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President 
of the Republic of Uganda 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Uganda.
17-29275
25/27
A/72/PV.5 
19/09/2017
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, 
President of the Republic of Uganda, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Museveni: I congratulate His Excellency 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  and 
assure him of Uganda’s support. We are confident that 
he will lead the Assembly effectively and successfully. 
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson for his leadership of the 
Assembly at its seventy-first session. I also pay tribute 
to His Excellency Secretary-General António Guterres 
for his personal dedication and commitment to the work 
of the United Nations.
The  theme  for  this  session,  “Focusing  on  people: 
Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a 
sustainable planet”, is very pertinent. I am happy this 
topic is being discussed. I have always wondered why 
the elites in the different countries of the world do not 
see  its  importance.  Who  would  lose  if  everyone  in 
the  world  led  a  decent  life  and  every  adult  consumed 
between 2,000 and 2,500 calories per day? Who would 
lose  if  everyone  were  consuming  the  right  number  of 
calories every day? Who would lose if everyone were 
immunized against immunizable diseases? Who would 
lose if all the immunizable diseases that afflict people 
were immunized against? Who would lose if we were 
to  achieve  universal  immunization  for  all  the  people 
in the world? What would be the problem? Who would 
lose if all young people, children, accessed education to 
achieve literacy, numeracy and skills, as a minimum? 
Who  would  lose  if  all  human  beings  had  health  units 
within a radius of 5 kilometres from where they live? 
Who would lose if all human beings had access to clean 
electricity,  away  from  charcoal,  firewood  and  dirty 
kerosene?  Who  would  lose  if  every  adult  had  a  well-
paying job? Who would lose if every family on the globe 
had a decent, three-bedroom house? Who would lose if 
every  person  had  access  to  clean  water?  Who  would 
lose if no person on the globe had to worry about war, 
terrorism or crime? Who would lose if every provider of 
a service or producer of a good that is needed for use in 
the world had a right of access to markets? Who would 
lose if all the countries in the world had good transport 
and other elements of infrastructure? Who would lose 
if we all insisted on protecting Mother Nature so that it 
can also look after us?
On 
To what extent would this effort at global affluence 
stimulate  business?  How  much  cement,  steel,  copper 
and  food  would  we  need?  How  would  all  that  impact 
business?  If  we  aimed  at  global  affluence,  how  much 
would  this  impact  business  positively?  Why,  then, 
do  we  all  have  bad  businessmen  who  do  not  have 
spectacles effective enough to see the implied business 
opportunities if we aim at global affluence? As a milk 
and beef producer myself, only a few months ago I was 
cautioning my fellow farmers against excessive greed 
as  far  as  the  price  per  litre  of  milk  and  per  kilogram 
of  beef  were  concerned.  The  farmers  were  trying  to 
demand  extremely  high  prices  for  beef  and  milk,  but 
I warned them that if the milk were too expensive, the 
people  might  not  buy  it  as  much  as  if  it  were  better 
priced. The more buyers we have for our products, the 
more  prosperous  we  will  be.  We  would  therefore  be 
both  good  businesspeople  as  well  as  good  Christians, 
because  we  would  be  doing  business  in  a  fair  way. 
Therefore, in my opinion, parasitism is the only obstacle 
to global affluence, prosperity and peace.
the  dangerous  situation  on 
the  Korean 
peninsula, where very dangerous instruments of mass 
extermination are paraded around by the two contending 
sides, I have one question. My approach today is just to 
pose questions. I will not answer all of them, but I put 
them to the Assembly so that members can answer them 
themselves.  I  have  one  question.  Who  would  lose  if 
North Korea and South Korea, those kith and kin, were 
left  alone  to  discuss  their  reunification?  The  Korean 
nation  came  into  existence  in  1234  A.D.,  according 
to  the  information  available  on  the  Internet.  Why 
cannot these people — they are one people — discuss 
their  reunification  instead  of  maintaining  a  divided 
peninsula, the division of which it is our job to manage 
endlessly?  Koreans  were  temporarily  divided  towards 
the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  Why  should  this 
division  be  allowed  to  be  permanent  and  a  source  of 
dangerous tensions? A unified Korea would be a very 
strong nation. Why do some actors fear strong nations in 
the world? Why should the Koreans themselves, North 
and South, allow external forces to continue to divide 
them? We always strive not to allow actors, foreign or 
local, to divide the African peoples, regardless of the 
complications  involved.  When  one  hears  that  Uganda 
accommodates many African refugees, it is on account 
26/27 
17-29275
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.5
of  a  conscious  ideological  position  to  not  allow  any 
actors  to  divide  us.  We  fight  only  traitors.  Who  has 
been hurt by a unified Viet Nam since 1975, although 
the  method  of  their  unification  was  not  the  best  one? 
Who  has  been  hurt  by  the  reunification  of  Germany 
since 1990?
Finally,  on  the  small  issue  of  enforcing  sanctions 
against  North  Korea,  Uganda  is  in  compliance.  That 
is not a big problem, for we do not have to trade with 
North Korea. We are, however, grateful that, in the past, 
the North Koreans helped us to build our tank forces.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Uganda for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of  the 
Republic of Uganda, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.
17-29275
27/27
