United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
29th plenary meeting
Monday, 9 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Llorentty Solíz 
(Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 140 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/519)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
positions of delegations regarding the recommendation 
of  the  Fifth  Committee  have  been  made  clear  in  the 
Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the  relevant  official 
records. Therefore, if there is no proposal under rule 66 
of the rules of procedure, may I take it that the General 
Assembly decides not to discuss the report of the Fifth 
Committee that is before the Assembly today?
It was so decided.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): Before we 
begin to take action on the recommendation contained 
in  the  report  of  the  Fifth  Committee  (A/72/519),  I 
would like to advise representatives that we are going 
to proceed to take a decision in the same manner as was 
done in the Fifth Committee.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. The Fifth Committee adopted 
the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Scale  of  assessments 
for  the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations”, without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 72/2).
The  Acting  President 
in  Spanish): 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda item 140.
(spoke 
Agenda items 9 and 14
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Report of the Economic and Social Council 
(A/72/3)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/255)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
connection  with  agenda  item  9,  I  would  like  to  recall 
that,  pursuant  to  resolution  58/316,  of  1  July  2004, 
the  Assembly,  on  the  recommendation  of  the  General 
Committee,  decided,  at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  held 
on  15  September,  to  consider  agenda  item  9  in  its 
entirety in plenary meeting, on the understanding that 
the  administrative  programme  and  budgetary  aspects 
should be dealt with by the Fifth Committee.
At the same meeting, the Assembly took note of the 
clarification that, in implementing resolution 58/316 to 
consider item 9 in its entirety in plenary meeting, the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-31537 (E)
*1731537*
A/72/PV.29 
09/10/2017
relevant  parts  of  chapter  I  of  the  report  (A/72/3)  that 
are under agenda items already allocated to the Main 
Committees  would  be  considered  by  the  Committee 
concerned for final action by the General Assembly.
In connection with agenda item 14, members will 
recall that, pursuant to resolution 57/270 B, of 23 June 
2003,  the  Assembly  decided  to  consider  under  the 
item the chapters of the annual report of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  relevant  to  the  integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits,  including  through  the  participation  of  the 
President of the Council in its discussions.
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Cristián 
Barros  Melet,  Vice-President  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, to introduce the report of the Council.
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have the honour to introduce to the General Assembly 
the  2017  report  (A/72/3)  of 
the  Economic  and 
Social Council.
In  2017,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  built 
on  the  initial  phase  of  implementation,  follow-up  and 
review of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and related commitments and integrated lessons learned 
from years 1 and 2.
We  have  made  a  good  start,  but  further  work, 
coordination  and  innovation  are  needed.  We  must 
ensure  that  the  impact  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  system  as  a  whole  is  greater  than  the  sum 
of  its  parts.  That  includes  the  work  of  its  segments 
and  forums,  functional  and  regional  commissions 
and  expert  bodies.  As  a  Bureau  member  during  the 
2017  session,  I  can  attest  to  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s  commitment  to  strengthening  its  support 
to  Member  States  and  development  partners.  Let  me 
briefly outline some of the highlights of our work from 
the past year.
First,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  built 
on  its  successes  in  the  follow-up  and  review  of  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda and Addis Ababa 
Action  Agenda.  The  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable  Development  was  held  under  the  theme 
“Eradicating  poverty  and  promoting  prosperity  in  a 
changing world” and reviewed a subset of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  in  depth.  During  the 
three-day ministerial segment, 43 countries presented 
their  voluntary  national  reviews.  Common  themes  in 
those reviews included the importance of bringing all 
the parties together in a multi-stakeholder approach to 
implementation,  as  well  as  the  critical  importance  of 
involvement  at  the  highest  levels  of  Government.  In 
addition,  the  Forum  was  enriched  by  147  side  events, 
nine  learning  courses,  several  special  activities,  an 
SDG business forum and a partnership exchange.
The  second  Economic  and  Social  Council  Forum 
on Financing for Development follow-up demonstrated 
its importance as an inclusive platform for discussion 
of  a  range  of  key  issues.  The  outcome  document 
(E/FFDF/2017/3)  reaffirmed  the  key  elements  of  the 
Addis Ababa Agenda and included new commitments 
on  policies  and  actions,  such  as  the  acceleration  of 
national  and  international  efforts,  sending  a  strong 
signal  of  our  commitment  to  multilateralism  and  the 
global partnership for sustainable development.
two-year  dialogue  on 
Secondly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s 
2017  session  established  a  shared  understanding  of 
the  adjustments  needed  to  enable  the  United  Nations 
development system to get better results in a changing 
development  landscape.  The  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s 
longer-term 
positioning of the United Nations development system 
laid the foundations for a landmark resolution (71/243) 
on  the  quadrennial  comprehensive  policy  review  of 
the  United  Nations  system,  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly in December 2016. The resolution requested 
that  the  Secretary-General  lead  a  process  of  change 
by  presenting  proposals  and  rallying  the  development 
system around those proposals.
the 
In  July, 
the  Secretary-General  presented 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  with  an  outline  of 
his  reform  proposals,  seeking  the  views  of  Member 
States  in  order  to  develop  the  proposals  in  detail  this 
autumn.  The  proposals include  the  two  remaining 
mandates  — 
the  system-wide  strategic  planning 
document and the proposal on the resident coordinator 
system.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council  continues 
to be the main forum for ongoing consultations on the 
repositioning  exercise  and  the  implementation  of  the 
quadrennial  comprehensive policy  review.  Member 
States  used  the Economic  and  Social  Council’s  2017 
segment  on  operational  activities  for  development  to 
address implementation of the resolution in detail.
Thirdly, the engagement of stakeholders in the work 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  United 
Nations development system continued to intensify. The 
2/6 
17-31537
09/10/2017 
A/72/PV.29
role of the Economic and Social Council as a platform 
for  multi-stakeholder  participation  is  unrivalled.  Last 
year,  460  non-governmental  organizations  obtained 
consultative status with the Council, a new record, and 
the meetings of the Committee on Non-Governmental 
Organizations were webcast, thereby helping to improve 
communications and transparency.
The Economic and Social Council’s Youth Forum 
continues to grow in terms of participation and impact 
and  underlines  the  potential  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development for promoting solidarity and 
action  among  young  people  in  all  countries.  Young 
people are eager to be involved in implementing the SDGs 
in  concrete  ways,  including  through  youth  advisory 
councils, grass-roots-driven solutions and participation 
by youth representatives in Member States’ delegations 
to  the  High-level  Political  Forum.  The  Economic 
and  Social  Council  also  continued  to  collaborate 
with  key  partners  through  its  Partnership  Forum  and 
Multi-stakeholder Forum for Science, Technology and 
Innovation. The participants in the Partnership Forum 
emphasized  the  importance  of  developing  a  common 
set of core guidelines and principles on partnerships for 
the entire United Nations system.
its 
leadership 
role 
Fourthly, 
to  strengthen 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
continued 
in 
identifying  new  issues  and  promoting  reflection, 
debate and innovative and comprehensive thinking. In 
2017, the Council devoted time to the issue of achieving 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  9  by  organizing  a 
special meeting and two preparatory events in Africa. 
That  has  resulted  in  the  expansion  of  two  concrete 
initiatives of the United Nations system for supporting 
infrastructure, industrialization and innovation — the 
Country Partnership Programme of the United Nations 
Industrial  Development  Organization 
(UNIDO) 
and  the  Accelerated  Agriculture  and  Agro-industry 
Development  Initiative,  led  by UNIDO,  the  Food  and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the 
International Fund for Agricultural Development.
The President took the Chair.
The Economic and Social Council also worked to 
deepen our understanding of the nexus between peace 
and  sustainable  development,  building  on  last  year’s 
joint meeting with the Peacebuilding Commission. The 
joint meeting on the situation in the Sahel underlined 
the importance of addressing the root causes of poverty 
while avoiding a disproportionate emphasis on security.
for 
The  comprehensive  report  discusses  all  of  this 
in  greater  detail.  On  behalf  of  the  2017  Economic 
and  Social  Council  Bureau,  we  would  like  to  thank 
Member States and our partners in the United Nations 
development  system 
their  continued  strong 
collaboration  and  support.  Under  the  guidance  of  its 
new President, Mrs. Marie Chatardová, I am sure that 
in  2018  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will  build 
on the achievements of this session. We look forward 
to  continuing  its  close  working  relationship  with  the 
General  Assembly  in  support  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
Mr. Sinha (India): We would like to congratulate 
the Permanent Representative of the Czech Republic on 
her assumption of the presidency of the Economic and 
Social Council and to assure her and the new Bureau 
of  our  steadfast  support  for  their  work.  We  would 
also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the 
outgoing  President,  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Zimbabwe, and his Bureau for their stewardship of the 
Council’s activities in the previous session. We thank 
the delegation of Chile for presenting the report of the 
Council (A/72/3) today.
India attaches great importance to the work of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  welcomes  its  2017 
report,  which  gives  helpful  details  of  its  activities. 
Since the adoption of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, the Economic and Social Council, with 
its well-planned working methods, has been able to give 
special attention to implementing and following up on 
the outcomes of all major United Nations conferences 
and  summits  in  the  economic,  social,  environmental 
and other related fields contributing to the achievement 
of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We  note  with  appreciation  its  enhanced  activities 
related  to  the  2030  Agenda,  including  organizing  the 
Forum  on  Financing  for  Development  follow-up,  the 
segment on operational activities for development, the 
Partnership  Forum,  the  integration  segment  and  the 
Multi-stakeholder  Forum  on  Science,  Technology  and 
Innovation,  as  well  as  the  High-level  Political  Forum 
on Sustainable Development, the special meeting of the 
Council  on  international  cooperation  in  tax  matters, 
the  Youth  Forum  in  New  York,  and  the  humanitarian 
affairs segment in Geneva, among others.
We would like to commend the Economic and Social 
Council for convening the High-level Political Forum,
the  second  of  its  kind  since  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
17-31537
3/6
A/72/PV.29 
09/10/2017
Agenda.  The  Forum  offered  a  place  for  policymakers 
from  around  the  world  to  exchange  ideas  on  how  to 
accelerate  the  implementation  of  the  far-reaching 
2030  Agenda  consistently  and  effectively.  It  included 
well-organized  presentations  of  voluntary  national 
reviews by 43 countries, including my own, as well as 
in-depth  reviews  of  the  progress  that  has  been  made 
on seven specific Sustainable Development Goals, and 
the adoption of a ministerial declaration on the theme 
“Eradicating  poverty  and  promoting  prosperity  in  a 
changing world”.
India  presented  its  voluntary  national  review  in 
the spirit of sharing experiences, including successes, 
challenges  and  lessons  learned,  with  a  view  to 
accelerating  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda. 
We  have  integrated  the  SDG  framework  into  our 
national  development  strategies.  India’s  success  in 
sustaining robust economic growth aimed at eradicating 
poverty should make a major contribution to the global 
achievement  of  the  SDGs.  As  it  does,  it  will  bring 
forth technologies and pathways for progress that can 
be  shared  with  other  developing  countries  in  order  to 
enable them to achieve sustainable development as well.
In a spirit of South-South solidarity, India continues 
to expand its development partnerships over a wide range 
of  capacity-building  sectors  with  fellow  developing 
countries in various continents, especially those in more 
vulnerable situations. In June of this year we established 
the  India-United  Nations  Development  Partnership 
Fund,  with  the  aim  of  enhancing  our  contribution  to 
South-South  cooperation  as  a  means  to  achieving  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We  are  happy  to  note  that  the  theme  for  the  next 
High-level  Political  Forum  will  be  “From  global  to 
local: supporting sustainable and resilient societies in 
urban  and  rural  communities”.  It  is  our  expectation 
that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will  address 
sustainable development challenges through the prism 
of  poverty  eradication  as  its  central  and  overarching 
objective. We also commend its effort in organizing the 
second  Forum  on  Financing  for  Development  follow-
up,  which  provided  a  useful  platform  for  substantive 
deliberations with representatives of intergovernmental 
bodies and the senior management of the Bretton Woods 
institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
and which acknowledged the necessity for a wider and 
global framework for financing for development in the 
spirit of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.
India has a historic association with the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  whose 
first  President  was 
Sir  Ramaswamy  Mudaliar,  who  played  an  important 
role  in  formulating  the  sections  on  it  in  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  line  with  its  role  as  a  large 
developing country, India has played an active role in 
the Council’s deliberations and activities.
The architect of the Economic and Social Council 
Chamber  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  famously 
left its ceiling unfinished, signifying that the work of 
development is never finished. While the United Nations 
development  system  entities  are  individually  taking 
important  steps  to  mainstream  the  2030  Agenda  into 
their  work  and  programmatic  instruments,  a  system-
wide approach should be strengthened. We would like 
the  Council  to  be  more  purposeful,  action-oriented 
and  policy-relevant.  It  should  keep  the  interests  of 
developing countries at the centre of its work, and its 
policy recommendations should lead to positive change 
on the ground and in the lives of ordinary people around 
the world.
Last but not least, as we plan various forums in this 
session, we would like to have a balance between the 
time allocated for panel discussions and that available 
for  deliberations  among  Member  States,  or  we  will 
run the risk of making our processes academic, at the 
expense of the Council’s ownership by Member States.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  India’s 
commitment to the work and activities of the Economic 
and Social Council and to constructive engagement in 
its work in the coming months.
Mr. Alsharrah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
first  like  to  take  note  of  the  report  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  (A/72/3).  The  various  reports 
we  have  been  presented  with  will  help  us  to  achieve 
the  objectives  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and the Sustainable Development Goals, 
at every level.
Along  with  our  various  development  partners, 
we  had  already  made  considerable  progress  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  enabling  us 
to  achieve  sustainable  development  and  economic 
growth.  Tremendous  efforts  were  made  to  achieve  a 
successful outcome for the July 2015 third International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  in  Addis 
Ababa  and  to  take  into  account  the  various  changes 
our development plans have undergone, enabling us to 
move forward after September 2015 while taking into 
4/6 
17-31537
09/10/2017 
A/72/PV.29
consideration  the  national  particularities  and  varying 
development  levels  of  developing  countries  in  the 
framework  of  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
We also saw the holding of the twenty-first session of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  at  which 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change was adopted. 
There  we  worked  to  establish  concrete  measures 
to  combat  climate  change  based  on  the  principle  of 
collective  responsibility  and  expressed  our  desire  to 
work alongside other States to fulfil our obligations and 
ensure that no one is left behind.
This  has  been  part  of  a  process  of  consultation 
with  all  stakeholders  with  the  aim  of  eradicating 
poverty in all its forms and aspects and to tackle that 
challenge, which is the most important one we face at 
the global level as we work to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  are  grateful  to  a  number  of 
Member States as well as to the entities and agencies 
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, of which we were a member from 2013 
to 2015. We have seen various reforms in the Economic 
and  Social  Council  that  have  made  it  possible  for  it 
to  become  a  truly  effective  and  equitable  platform 
for  Member  States  and  for  our  efforts  to  implement 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  with  significant 
effects  for  the  results  achieved.  We  hope  that  the 
Council will continue to make progress in that regard 
in the years to come, particularly through its High-level 
Political Forums, as well as in the context of the Forum 
on Financing for Development follow-up.
I  would  also  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
continued cooperation for tackling the major challenges 
that prevent developing countries from assisting those 
in  highly  fragile  social  categories,  especially  States 
dealing  with  extremely  difficult  circumstances.  It 
is  essential  to  ensure  that  they  too  are  given  the 
opportunity  to  achieve  prosperity.  In  that  regard,  all 
countries  should  share  this  responsibility  in  tackling 
these difficulties together. We must work together for 
sustainable  development  and  ensure  that  developing 
countries have access to the sustainable and predictable 
financing  that  they  need  in  order  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. They need conducive 
conditions and new and innovative financing options to 
do so. Since the developed donor States have committed 
to providing such support and assistance to developing 
countries, we urge that they fulfil their commitment to 
allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product 
to official development aid.
The State of Kuwait has made great efforts, especially 
under the leadership of Sheikh Sabah Ahmad Al-Jaber 
Al-Sabah,  to  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals so that people all over 
the world can benefit from mechanisms and initiatives 
to  eradicate  poverty,  reduce  their  debt  —  especially 
foreign  debt  —  and  combat  the  effects  of  climate 
change. It is essential that we continue to move forward 
on this path under the auspices of the United Nations. 
In that regard, we have a created the Kuwait Fund for 
Arab  Economic  Development,  a  groundbreaking  step 
that  has  enabled  us  to  help  neighbouring  States  to 
achieve  development  and  see  genuine  changes  on  the 
ground. We have also contributed to many international 
partnerships, a tradition for Kuwait, which has been at 
the forefront of joint development and humanitarian aid 
efforts for a long time.
We  have  therefore  been  advancing  our  efforts  to 
achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  by  2030 
by  establishing  a  number  of  policies  and  measures 
aimed at fulfilling the Goals at the national level, based 
on  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
We  have  also  integrated  that  effort  into  our  various 
national  strategies,  including  our  new  vision  for 
“Kuwait 2035”, a strategy designed to position Kuwait 
as a leading State on the cultural, social and economic 
fronts  in  our  region  by  2035.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  vision  he 
has outlined for reforming and revitalizing the work of 
the United Nations in order to enable it to help States 
around  the  world  achieve  stability  and  development. 
We firmly believe in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. It can be achieved if we States show the 
necessary political will, work together and abide by our 
various commitments.
Ms. Guadey (Ethiopia): The major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social 
and  environmental  fields  have  resulted  in  ambitious 
and  transformative  global  development  frameworks. 
My  delegation  sees  their  overarching  objective  as 
eradicating  poverty  and  achieving 
inclusive  and 
sustainable development growth while leaving no one 
behind. In that regard, they complement and reinforce 
one another in ensuring a prosperous and decent standard 
of living for all, while respecting development’s three 
dimensions, economic, social and environmental.
17-31537
5/6
A/72/PV.29 
09/10/2017
Despite  the  uneven  and  mixed  progress  that  has 
been made in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, we know that if we cannot 
overcome  our  current  complex  and  interconnected 
challenges, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
will  not  be  met  by  2030,  particularly  in  the  least 
developed countries. While we all agree, therefore, that 
adopting  ambitious  and  universal  master  plans  is  the 
right  way  to  go  —  and  one  that  we  still  consider  an 
achievement  of  multilateralism —  if  the  international 
community  cannot 
into  concrete 
actions,  a  major  opportunity  will  be  missed,  with 
serious  consequences  for  millions  of  people  around 
the world, whose faith in the United Nations and in its 
States Members’ capacity and willingness to deliver on 
collective promises would be undermined.
translate 
them 
Without  in  any  way  underestimating  the  current 
problems  we  face,  if  the  world  recommits  with  the 
same optimism and political determination that it has 
demonstrated  in  endorsing  the  intergovernmentally 
agreed-on frameworks, it will indeed be possible to end 
poverty, combat climate change and mobilize sufficient 
resources.  Moreover,  what  we  achieved  through  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  can  serve  as  lessons 
and  inspiration  for  finishing  our  unfinished  business. 
My delegation would therefore like to underscore that 
what  we  require  is  a  genuine  and  revitalized  global 
partnership and multi-stakeholder collaboration for the 
full and timely implementation of the 2030 Agenda, the 
Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  the  Sendai  Framework, 
the  Paris  Climate  Change  Agreement  and  the  New 
Urban Agenda.
It will also be imperative to strengthen coordination 
and  coherence  in  the  follow-up  to  decisions  taken  by 
United Nations conferences and forums. In that regard, 
the  ministerial  declarations  of  the  Second  Forum  on 
Financing  for  Development  and  the  2017  High-level 
Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development  should 
be implemented to address the many gaps that remain 
in fulfilling the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, thereby 
creating an international environment more conducive 
to the realization of the 2030 Agenda.
should 
honour 
countries 
sufficient 
to  providing 
their 
Developed 
commitments 
financial 
assistance  and  transferring  appropriate  technologies 
for  developing  countries,  particularly  least  developed 
countries,  in  order  to  complement  national  efforts. 
In  addition,  as  a  universal  body,  the  United  Nations 
has  an  important  role  to  play  in  the  full  and  timely 
implementation of our global development frameworks. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
further  enhancing  synergy  among  United  Nations 
entities and other global bodies, with the objective of 
supporting Member States in their efforts to implement 
the  SDGs.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s  reform  agenda,  which  we  hope 
will  further  strengthen  the  development  effectiveness 
and efficiency of the United Nations system, anchored 
in national ownership and leadership.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on these items.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Economic and Social Council, 
contained in document A/72/3?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
items 9 and 14.
Agenda item 117
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit
Specific meeting focused on development
The  President:  In  accordance  with  resolution 
60/265,  dated  30  June  2006,  on  the  follow-up  to  the 
outcome of the Millennium Summit, a specific meeting 
focused  on  development  should  be  held.  I  have  been 
informed  that  no  Member State  has  requested to take 
the floor under this item.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 117.
The meeting rose at 10.55 a.m.
6/6 
17-31537
