United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
33rd plenary meeting
Friday, 20 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 66 and 13
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and 
international support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/72/223)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/72/269)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
The President: It is an honour to address this joint 
debate,  which  will  be  the  final  event  of  this  year’s 
Africa  Week  and  will  address  many  issues  that  are 
crucial to Africa’s development. To begin, I will make 
three brief points.
First, I want to acknowledge the importance of the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
NEPAD was something of a trailblazer. It predates, by 
more than a decade, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063: 
The  Africa  We  Want.  Nevertheless,  many  of  its  core 
priorities  are  also  found  in  those  later  frameworks, 
including 
human 
development,  food  security,  education  and  training, 
and health.
infrastructure 
development, 
Since  its  adoption  in  2001,  NEPAD  has  led 
transformative change. For example, the Comprehensive 
Africa  Agriculture  Development  Programme  has 
improved  agricultural  productivity  on  the  continent. 
It  has  also  changed  people’s  lives  in  many  African 
countries.  Additionally,  NEPAD  has  generated  big 
strides  towards  the  integration  of  African  trade.  The 
finalization  this  summer  of  the  Tripartite  Free  Trade 
Area  Agreement  was  an  important  step  that  will 
harmonize three subregional blocs that previously had 
their own rules and models for trade. A continental free 
trade  area  is  no  longer  a  distant  dream;  it  could  very 
soon be a reality.
Major  hurdles  still  need  to  be  overcome.  Faster 
progress  needs  to  be  made,  not  only  in  the  sectors  of 
agriculture and trade, but also in a wide range of key 
areas  including  infrastructure,  industry,  economic 
diversification  and  poverty  eradication.  NEPAD, 
together with the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063, sets 
out  a  very  clear  plan  for  how  such  progress  can  be 
achieved.  We  must  ensure  that  those  frameworks  are 
harmonized and integrated, particularly with regard to 
reporting, follow-up and review.
Secondly,  I  want  to  repeat  a  message  that  I 
have  heard  many  times  this  week,  which  is  that  no 
development in Africa can take hold unless it is led from 
within. When NEPAD was adopted in 2001, it acted as 
a  strong  sign  of  regional  leadership  in  development. 
That  was  reaffirmed  through  the  adoption  of  Agenda 
2063. The roles played by the African Union, regional 
economic  communities  and  subregional  organizations 
have  been  indispensable.  They  have  acted  as  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-33710 (E)
*1733710*
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
engines of progress in sustainable development, as well 
as in building African capacities in the areas of peace 
and security.
We have also seen many exciting developments at 
the national level. There are ongoing efforts to integrate 
the  goals  and  targets  of  international  and  regional 
frameworks  into  national  development  plans.  African 
countries are also building their capacities for domestic 
resource  mobilization  and  tackling  illicit  financial 
flows.  However,  in  an  increasingly  globalized  world, 
no single country or region can go it alone.
The efforts taking place within Africa need to be 
supported by a revitalized partnership for development. 
We  need  closer  partnerships  between  Africa  and  its 
development  partners,  including  the  United  Nations 
bodies  and  Member  States.  Official  development 
assistance and other commitments are crucial in order 
to  enhance  finance,  technology  transfer  and  market 
access.  Moreover,  investment  must  be  incentivized  at 
the national, regional and international levels.
Thirdly, as we have heard this week, development 
in Africa should not be seen as a stand-alone activity. 
No  support  that  we  give  to  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development will bring about lasting change 
if  we  do  not  also  address  the  root  causes  of  conflict. 
Similarly,  we  cannot  look  at  how  to  prevent  societies 
turning to violence without addressing many of the core 
priorities of NEPAD. That is why today’s joint debate is 
very important. It deal with issues that are different but 
closely  linked.  That  reflects  reality  for  many  people. 
Yes, sustainable and inclusive development will improve 
entire  societies,  but  the  signing  of  a  trade  agreement 
will mean little to a mother whose young child is very 
sick from malaria. Similarly, foreign direct investment 
is  not  on  the  mind  of  someone  who  is  running  away 
from a hail of bullets.
Africa has a very clear vision. It is one that involves 
all layers of society, while benefiting from growth and 
development; one in which malaria and other diseases do 
not serve as death sentences for hundreds of thousands 
of people every year; one in which early warning signs 
of conflict lead more often to successful mediation than 
to  violence;  and  one  in  which  institutions  are  strong, 
both women and young people lead and participate, and 
good governance is the norm. That vision is becoming 
closer  to  reality.  This  week  and  today’s  debate  will 
allow us to take another step in the right direction.
Mr. Charwath (Austria): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  Friends  of  Inclusive  and  Sustainable 
Industrial  Development  —  a  group  of  37  countries 
that  believes  that  inclusive  and  sustainable  industrial 
development  plays  a  crucial  role  in  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  that  we  have 
set  for  ourselves  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  fifteenth  consolidated  progress  report  on  the 
implementation  of  and  international  support  for  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
The report outlines that,
industrialization  efforts 
“an  immediate  priority  for  African  countries 
is  to  intensify  efforts  to  accelerate  economic 
growth  through  industrialization  and  structural 
transformation,  which  are  key 
to  achieving 
sustainable development”. (A/72/223, pp. 1-2)
The role played by industrialization as one of the 
key enablers and catalysts for sustainable development 
has been well established. Target 2 of SDG 9 aims at 
promoting  inclusive  and  sustainable  industrialization 
and  at  raising  industry’s  share  in  employment  and 
gross  domestic  product.  In  that  regard,  achieving 
structural  transformation  through  more  accelerated 
and  coordinated 
should 
remain  a  key  development  priority  for  Africa.  We 
therefore  welcome  efforts  by  the  NEPAD  Agency, 
together  with  the  South  Africa  Council  for  Scientific 
and Industrial Research, to work towards achieving a 
road  map  for  countries  outlining  ways  to  achieve  the 
short-, medium- and long-term industrialization targets 
for the continent, as set out in the Action Plan for the 
Accelerated Industrial Development of Africa. We also 
welcome the initiatives of the Group of 20 to support 
the industrialization efforts of African States through 
investment  promotion  and  the  building  of  capacity  in 
science, technology and innovation programmes in line 
with the African Union’s 2063 Agenda.
international  community, 
the 
United  Nations  system,  must  play  a  critical  role  in 
assisting countries on the road to industrialization. The 
General  Assembly’s  adoption  of  the  Third  Industrial 
Development  Decade  for  Africa  for 
the  period 
2016-2025 (resolution 70/293) adds to that commitment 
and assigns the United Nations Industrial Development 
Organization  (UNIDO)  a  leading  role  in  promoting 
inclusive  and  sustainable  industrial  development  in 
close collaboration with the African Union, the United 
Nations Economic Commission for Africa, the African 
The 
including 
2/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
Development  Bank  and  the  Office  of  the  Special 
Adviser on Africa.
UNIDO assists developing countries in designing 
and  implementing  industrial  policies  and  enhancing 
local  productive  capacities  and  entrepreneurship. 
Its  technical  assistance  contributes  to  job  creation, 
advancing  economic  competitiveness  and  enabling 
market  access.  UNIDO  also  plays  a  significant  role 
in  advancing  the  diffusion  of  environmentally  sound 
technologies  and  practices  in  production  systems  and 
in collaborating with the private and public sector so as 
to mobilize investments in an inclusive, sustainable and 
resilient manner.
We  commend  UNIDO  for  the  important  role 
that  it  plays  in  furthering  inclusive  and  sustainable 
industrialization,  and  we  trust  that  it  will  play  an 
important role in the industrial development of Africa 
in line with continental, regional and national priorities.
Mr.  Moustafa  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to 
address the General Assembly on behalf of the Group 
of  African  States  in  this  important  debate  on  issues 
of  great  importance  to  Africa’s  peace,  security  and 
development. I would like in that connection to thank 
President Lajčák for his opening remarks.
At 
to  express 
the  outset,  I  wish 
the  deep 
appreciation of the African Group to all Member States 
for  their  commitment  to  keeping  the  special  needs  of 
Africa  among  the  top  priorities  of  the  Organization, 
and  for  showing  solidarity  with  African  countries  in 
their  efforts  to  achieve  inclusive  growth,  sustainable 
development and promoting peace and stability across 
the  continent.  I  also  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
recognize  the  efforts  of  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres and the entire United Nations system for their 
commitment  to  enhancing  coherent  United  Nations 
system support for Africa, as well as for supporting the 
transformative African Union Agenda 2063.
The  peace  and  development  nexus  is  evident 
today  in  the  two  reports  of  the  Secretary-General, 
which  constitute  the  basis  of  our  debate  —  namely, 
the  report  entitled  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development: fifteenth consolidated progress report on 
implementation and international support” (A/72/223) 
and that entitled “Causes of conflict and the promotion 
of  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa” (A/72/269). Clearly, as the world pursues a new 
milestone in the global partnership for development, as 
represented by the ongoing process of implementing the 
2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, it is imperative 
to  continue  to  place  Africa  at  the  centre  of  United 
Nations efforts to eradicate poverty, address the impact 
of  climate  change  and  ensure  inclusive  economic 
growth and sustainable development.
Indeed,  eradicating  poverty  remains  the  greatest 
development challenge for African countries, in which 
half  of  the  world’s  poor  live.  The  African  Group  is 
concerned about the fact that two years after we began 
implementing the 2030 Agenda, global hunger is once 
again on the rise and affects 815 million people. That 
is  an  increase  from  777  million  in  2015,  according 
to  recent  reports  on  the  state  of  food  security  and 
nutrition. It is therefore imperative that we ensure that 
the  special  development  needs  of  Africa,  particularly 
poverty eradication, are accorded due attention by the 
United Nations development system.
implementation, 
In  that  regard,  our  efforts  should  focus  on  the 
necessary  means  of 
including 
financial resources, technology transfer and capacity-
building.  The  scale  must  be  ambitious  enough  to 
meet  the  aspirations  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  Developed  countries  should  fulfil  the 
commitments that they made in the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda,  including  official  development  assistance 
commitments,  as  aid  remains  an  important  source 
of  development  financing  for  developing  countries, 
particularly in Africa.
The  African  Group  expects 
that  a  renewed 
commitment to the Global Partnership for Sustainable 
Developmnet  will  enable  a  speedy  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda.  While  we  stress  the  importance 
of  international  support,  I  would  nonetheless  like  to 
emphasize that African ownership of the development 
process  is  not  just  a  mere  concept.  African  countries 
have  indeed  taken  primary  responsibility  for  their 
own  development.  The  experience  of  implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  has  shown  that 
significan  advances  were  made  by  African  countries, 
particularly  in  improving  primary-school  enrolment, 
advancing  gender  equality  and  halting  the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS.
Those  advances  were  mainly  the  result  of  sound 
macroeconomic policies and the remarkable economic 
growth  that  Africa  has  achieved  over  the  past  two 
decades.  Nevertheless,  systemic  issues  have  affected 
Africa’s  rates  of  economic  growth,  and  international 
support was not sufficient to bring about a significant 
17-33710
3/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
As  we  appreciate 
the 
the  New  Partnership 
reduction in unemployment and poverty levels, nor in 
effecting similar positive advances in other goals.
steady  progress 
in 
implementing 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD), and the strong support of the 
United Nations, particularly in enhancing the Office of 
the Special Adviser on Africa, we have to be mindful 
that mobilizing support for Africa is now more urgent 
than  ever.  That  is  particularly  the  case  as  Africa 
implements Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want, which 
represents the continent’s ambitious and transformative 
50-year  vision.  That  people-centred  agenda 
is 
underpinned  by  seven  core  aspirations,  including 
inclusive growth and sustainable development, regional 
integration,  peace  and  good  governance.  Achieving 
those  aspirations  ultimately  hinges  on  development 
cooperation and our overall commitment to promoting 
a strengthened partnership.
The  challenges  facing  Africa  today  encompass 
the 
issues  of  peace,  security  and  development. 
There  can  be  no  lasting  security  without  inclusive 
development. Similarly, peace, security and the rule of 
law — underpinned by credible systems of democratic 
governance  —  are  prerequisite  and  indispensable 
factors for and drivers of development. It is imperative, 
in that regard, to encourage all partners, including the 
United Nations system, to support the efforts of African 
countries  in  achieving  the  African  Union’s  Silencing 
the Guns by 2020 initiative, as envisioned by African 
leaders  in  the  African  Union’s  Fiftieth  Anniversary 
Solemn Declaration.
African  countries  have  taken  numerous  steps  to 
address peace and security challenges at the national and 
regional levels, including — in dealing with terrorism 
and instability — the establishment of the Joint Force 
of  the  Group  of  Five  for  the  Sahel, the  Multinational 
Joint  Task  Force  and  the  deployment  of  the  African 
Union  Mission  in  Somalia.  Despite  limited  capacity 
and  resources,  those  commendable  efforts  serve  as 
proof  of  Africa’s  determination  to  find  solutions  to 
its  own  security  challenges.  Furthermore,  African 
countries have demonstrated a growing commitment to 
the rule of law and good governance. The African Peer 
Review Mechanism (APRM) has become a unique and 
innovative framework for promoting good governance, 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  across 
the  continent.  The  African  Union  is  working  hard  to 
encourage all African Member States to join the APRM.
In  order  to  complement  and  strengthen  African 
efforts to address challenges to the continent’s peace and 
security, it is critical that Africa’s partners strengthen 
their support for African peace and security activities 
and help build the continent’s capacity to prevent and 
resolve  conflict  through  increased  assistance.  No 
country  or  organization  can  solve  those  challenges 
alone.  Moreover, 
the  African  Group  underscores 
the  importance  of  the  long-standing  and  exemplary 
partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and  Africa, 
notably  in  efforts  to  support  the  establishment  and 
operationalization  of  the  African  Peace  and  Security 
Architecture.  That 
includes  cooperation  between 
the Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the  African  Union 
and  the  United  Nations  Security  Council,  as  well  as 
the  African  Standby  Force  and  continued  support  for 
the APRM.
The  African  Group  commends 
the  renewed 
commitment on the part of the United Nations and the 
African Union to strengthening their cooperation and 
promoting a strategic partnership, as demonstrated by 
the signing in April of the Joint United Nations-African 
Union  Framework  for  an  Enhanced  Partnership  in 
Peace and Security. In that regard, the African Group 
wishes  to  acknowledge  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres’  emphasis  on  prevention  as  an  important 
cornerstone that reinforces the nexus between the key 
pillars of the work of the United Nations, namely, peace 
and  security,  development  and  human  rights.  Indeed, 
promoting sustainable development and ensuring a life 
of dignity for all represent the most effective strategy 
for conflict prevention.
With  regard  to  the  acceleration  of  efforts  to 
control  and  eliminate  malaria  by  2030  in  developing 
countries  —  particularly  African  countries  —  the 
African  Group  welcomes  the  continued  commitment 
on  the  part  of  the  international  community  to  the 
eradication of malaria and other diseases, as stipulated 
clearly  under  Sustainable  Development  Goal  3  of 
the  2030  Agenda.  In  that  regard,  we  underscore  the 
need  to  undertake  preventive  measures,  including 
strengthening  the  capacities  of  African  countries’ 
health  and  disease  surveillance  systems.  We  concur 
with  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General 
that  a  concerted  and  coordinated  global  effort  will 
be  needed  in  order  to  substantially  reduce  malaria 
transmission, morbidity and mortality by 2030.
Finally, I wish to conclude by emphasizing that the 
African  Group  stands  ready  to  work  with  the  United 
4/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
Nations  system  and  other  development  partners  to 
mobilize  support  for  the  integrated  implementation 
of  Agenda  2063:  The  Africa  We  Want  and  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, in order to ensure 
a mutually reinforcing implementation of both agendas.
Mr. Ismail (Brunei Darussalam): I have the honour 
of speaking on agenda item 66 on behalf of the 10 States 
members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN),  namely,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Viet Nam and my 
own country, Brunei Darussalam.
We too would like to thank the Secretary-General 
for his latest report (A/72/223) on the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  which  provides 
valuable  and  practical  insights  on  the  way  forward. 
We  acknowledge  the  progress  made  in  achieving  the 
priorities set by NEPAD. That is particularly noteworthy 
against the backdrop of the current unfavourable global 
economic conditions, as well as persistent challenges in 
the areas of agricultural productivity and food security, 
economic  diversification  and  market  access,  and  the 
lack of financing and capacity, among other things.
As  sustainable  development  and  sustaining  peace 
are  mutually  reinforcing,  it  is  important  to  safeguard 
advances  in  socioeconomic  development  through  the 
promotion  of  sustainable  peace.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
encouraging  to  see  many  African  countries  continue 
to  intensify  their  efforts  and  seize  opportunities  to 
accelerate progress towards durable peace, security and 
development in the region.
ASEAN  reaffirms 
its  solidarity  with  Africa, 
especially  with  respect 
to  realizing  our  shared 
aspirations  for  growth,  prosperity  and  sustainable 
development.  As  such,  ASEAN  fully  supports  the 
implementation of NEPAD, which will provide a strong 
foundation for Africa’s Agenda 2063. We welcome the 
efforts  by  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations 
system  under  the  Regional  Coordination  Mechanism 
for  Africa  to  align  the  Agenda  2063  and  the  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  We  are  pleased  to  note 
that  their  meeting  in  Senegal  last  March  focused  on 
investing  in  youth,  who  represent  a  key  driving  force 
for  inclusive  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa, 
where the world’s youngest population is concentrated.
In  ASEAN,  we  are  also  exploring  ways  and 
means  of  promoting  synergies  and  complementarities 
between  the  ASEAN  Community  Vision  2025  and 
the  2030  Agenda.  Recently,  on  the  margins  of  the 
high-level  general  debate,  ASEAN,  together  with  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  launched 
the  ASEAN  My  World  survey.  That  project  aims 
to  capture  the  people’s  perspective  on  progress  in 
achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  to 
mobilize and build dialogue between decision-makers 
and  people,  with  a  view  to  shaping  recommendations 
and policies on how to implement the 2030 Agenda. We 
therefore believe that there is ample scope for greater 
collaboration  between  ASEAN  and  Africa  to  address 
mutual concerns and achieve sustainable development.
ASEAN  and  African  countries  have  an  enduring 
friendship that is guided by the spirit of solidarity for 
peace and prosperity. That friendship dates back to the 
1955 Bandung Conference. Two years ago, we met again 
in Indonesia to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary 
of  that  historic  occasion  and  revitalize  our  political, 
economic and sociocultural cooperation.
Enhancing people-to-people linkages is a key aspect 
of that partnership, which brings professionals, business 
people, students and travellers from both regions closer 
together.  ASEAN,  both  as  a  whole  and  as  individual 
member  States,  stands  ready  to  exchange  ideas  and 
share experiences with our African partners in various 
fields, such as agriculture, education, information and 
communications-technology 
trade  and 
infrastructure development.
innovation, 
A  supportive  international  environment  is  vital 
for  catalysing  further  development  in  Africa.  In  that 
regard,  development  partners,  international  financial 
institutions,  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
and 
the 
United  Nations,  must  redouble  their  efforts  to  ensure 
that  African  countries  achieve  sustainable  peace 
and development.
international  community,  especially 
the 
In conclusion, ASEAN is committed to supporting 
the  endeavours  of  our  African  friends  and 
the 
international  community  to  bring  about  meaningful 
progress in the implementation of Agenda 2063 for the 
benefit of Africa.
Mr. Prasad (India): We are meeting at a time when 
all of us have embarked on the journey towards achieving 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
was adopted two years ago. Our African partners have 
also commenced the first phase of the implementation 
of  the  more  long-term  African  Agenda  2063.  Agenda 
2063  is  mutually  reinforced  by  the  2030  Agenda  and 
17-33710
5/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
builds  on  the  core  priorities  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  which  came  into 
existence 16 years ago.
International  cooperation 
remains  a  critical 
element  in  Africa’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  greater 
peace  and  prosperity  envisaged  in  the  two  Agendas. 
NEPAD  is  an  important  part  of  those  collaborative 
efforts. Africa has made rapid strides in recent years. 
Compared  with  even  a  decade  ago,  the  continent  is 
more peaceful. Its governance institutions are stronger. 
Its  overall  economic  output  has  grown.  Poverty  rates 
have  fallen.  Infrastructure  and  connectivity  are 
improving,  and  the  economies  are  more  diversified. 
In  several  countries,  the  service  sectors,  including 
banking,  telecommunications  and  retail,  have  been 
growing, in spite of the fact that low commodity prices 
have adversely impacted many economies.
Life  expectancy  has  increased.  Rates  of  infant 
and  maternal  mortality  have  fallen.  Primary-school 
enrolment,  especially 
increased. 
Malnutrition  has  been  reduced,  and  access  to  safe 
drinking  water  has  increased.  HIV  infection  and 
prevalence  rates  have  been  reversed,  as  noted  by  the 
Secretary-General  in  his  remarks  earlier  this  week  at 
the opening of Africa Week 2017.
for  girls,  has 
Today,  Africa 
is  a  young  continent  with  a 
demographic  dividend  that  can  be  of  great  advantage 
if  young  people  are  provided  with  education  and  the 
skills needed for economic opportunities. International 
cooperation  can  help  overcome  constraints  posed  by 
poor  connectivity  and  infrastructure,  low  agriculture 
productivity,  the  lack  of  diversification  in  certain 
economies and limited regional integration.
We commend the organization of the ongoing Africa 
Week. It helps focus attention on the opportunities and 
challenges faced by Africa. It would also help to engage 
United Nations entities in effective partnerships for the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063.
Long-standing  trade  and  diaspora  links  across 
the  Indian  Ocean,  a  shared  colonial  past  and  our 
common  development 
framed 
India’s  relationship  with  Africa.  Today,  Africa  and 
India  represent  young  and  dynamic  societies  and 
economies  that  are  intensifying  their  collaboration  so 
as  to  achieve  greater  prosperity  for  their  peoples  in 
an  increasingly  globalized  world.  The  core  strengths 
of  our  development  partnership  have  been  capacity-
building, mobilizing financial support and the sharing 
challenges  have 
of  technical  expertise.  That  complements  our  rapidly 
growing trade and investment links.
Trade  between  Africa  and  India  has  increased 
by  a  factor  of  20  in  the  past  15  years  and  doubled 
in  the  past  five  years,  reaching  nearly  $72  billion  in 
2016 and making India Africa’s fourth-largest trading 
partner.  Indian  investment  in  Africa  has  also  surged, 
with  major  investments  in  the  telecommunications, 
information technology, energy, engineering, chemicals, 
pharmaceuticals and automobile sectors.
Indian leaders continue to attach a very high priority 
to our partnership with Africa. Earlier in October, Africa 
was  the  destination  for  the  first  overseas  visit  by  the 
new President of India, His Excellency Mr. Ram Nath 
Kovind. During the past three years, the top leadership 
of  India,  including  the  President,  Vice-President  and 
Prime  Minister,  have  visited  18  African  countries. 
Indian  ministers  have  visited  all  54  partner  countries 
during  that  period.  In  a  significant  development,  the 
African  Development  Bank  held  its  board  meeting  in 
India  this  year.  During  the  meeting,  Prime  Minister 
Modi announced the launch of India’s latest initiative in 
Africa,  the  Asia-Africa  Growth  Corridor,  established 
in partnership with Japan.
We  have  also  had  11  incoming  visits  by  African 
Heads  of  State  and  Government,  in  addition  to  the 
landmark Third India-Africa Forum Summit, held two 
years  ago  in  Delhi,  where  41  African  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  participated.  During  the  Summit, 
the Government of India announced significant offers 
of  development  partnership,  including  $10  billion  in 
concessional  credits,  as  well  as  grant  assistance  of 
$600  million  and  50,000  scholarships  over  the  next 
five years.
India  has  also  engaged  with  the  Group  of  20  and 
the  Brazil,  Russia,  India  and  China  group  on  issues 
regarding the development priorities of Africa. Besides 
the  wide-ranging  development  and  humanitarian 
assistance  efforts,  India  also  partners  with  Africa  in 
promoting peace and security through its long-standing 
contribution 
to  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
efforts. Recent initiatives have also included trilateral 
cooperation, along with the United States of America, 
to  provide  United  Nations  peacekeeping  training  for 
African partners.
I would like to conclude by reiterating what Prime 
Minister  Modi  said  during  the  Africa  Development 
Bank  Board  meeting  in  India  this  year,  which  is  that 
6/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
India’s partnership with Africa is based on a model of 
cooperation.  It  is  responsive  to  the  needs  of  African 
countries, demand-driven and free of conditions.
The 
long-standing  India-Africa  partnership 
is 
based  on  solidarity  and  mutual  respect  and  is  neither 
prescriptive nor exploitative. It represents South-South 
cooperation  in  all  its  dimensions,  one  that  continues 
to  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want.
Mr.  Almunayer  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation has the honour to participate in this debate 
on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD). We have considered with great interest the 
content  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/72/223) 
of  28  July,  entitled  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development:  fifteenth  consolidated  progress  report 
on  implementation  and  international  support”.  The 
report focuses on political measures taken by African 
countries  and  organizations  to  implement  NEPAD,  as 
well as the commitments announced to assist African 
States, the progress they have made and the challenges 
they face. It also focuses on progress made to implement 
the NEPAD Agenda, including the need to sustain and 
forge partnerships aimed at addressing issues of States’ 
national security.
Two years ago, Africa saw the launch of two historic 
agendas, one global and the other continental. The first 
is  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the  second  is  the  2063  Agenda  of  the  African  Union. 
Both provide long-term development visions. We hope 
that the objectives of those visions will be implemented 
to  advance  Africa.  The  first  10-year  implementation 
plan was adopted in June 2015 to implement the 2063 
Agenda of the African Union, and there will be other 
strategies in the next 50 years.
The  harmony  and  interdependence  of  those  two 
Agendas provide a common path for implementing the 
objectives that Africa aspires to reach. That is reflected 
in the Secretary-General’s report, as are the challenges 
facing  Africa,  notably  insufficient  financial  support, 
the  spread  of  weapons  and  transnational  organized 
crime, as well as trafficking in natural resources.
We  are  very  concerned  about  the  unfavourable 
economic  circumstances  that  stand  in  the  way  of 
implementing the 2030 Agenda and the NEPAD Agenda. 
They  tend  to  undermine  the  progress  made  in  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
despite the gains made so far. I would like to emphasize 
the need to implement the recommendations contained 
in the Secretary-General’s report, in particular those on 
good governance, the rule of law and the empowerment 
and protection of the rights of African women in order 
to  enhance  peacebuilding  efforts  and  implement  the 
objective of an Africa free from conflicts.
Kuwait prides itself on its historical relations with 
Africa, and we are an observer member of the African 
Union.  In  2013,  we  hosted  the  third  Africa  Arab 
Summit, under the theme “Partners in Development and 
Investment”.  At  the  Summit,  Amir  Sabah  Al-Ahmad 
al-Sabah  announced  the  provision  of  concessionary 
loans  to  non-Arab  African  countries  through  the 
Kuwait Development Fund. During the Summit, Kuwait 
also  announced  the  investment  of  $1  billion  through 
the  General  Investment  Authority  in  collaboration 
with  the  World  Bank  and  its  institutions,  as  well  as 
the  China-Africa  Development  Fund,  to  invest  in  the 
infrastructure of Africa.
The  loans  provided  by  the  Kuwait  Development 
Fund have reached $20 billion so far. Loans have been 
granted to 106 countries worldwide; African countries 
alone  have  received  18  per  cent  of  that  amount.  It  is 
also  important  to  mention  the  initiative  of  the  Amir 
of  Kuwait,  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  al-Sabah,  which 
provides an annual award of $1 million in the name of 
Mr. Abdul Rahman Al-Sumait, the late Kuwaiti doctor 
who  was  active  in  humanitarian  affairs  and  activities 
in Africa. The annual award is given for development 
research  in  Africa  and  under  the  supervision  of  the 
Kuwait  Foundation  for  the  Advancement  of  Sciences. 
Kuwait  will  also  host  a  conference  for  supporting 
education in Somalia in the near future, as we believe 
in the need to promote education towards a future that 
meets  the  aspirations  of  the  Somali  people  and  in  a 
manner that keeps abreast of modern developments.
international 
  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that,  given  our 
historical bonds and common destiny, the international 
community, 
and 
non-governmental  organizations  in  the  private  sector 
must act vigorously to support the needs of Africa and 
assist them in implementing their aspirations to achieve 
development and economic prosperity.
organizations 
Mrs. Rugwabiza (Rwanda): At the outset, Rwanda 
thanks you, Mr. President, for convening this important 
joint debate. We also thank the Secretary-General for 
17-33710
7/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
the reports submitted under agenda item 13 (А/72/223 
and A/72/269) to inform today’s meeting.
With 
the  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  African  Union’s 
Agenda  2063:  The  Africa  We  Want,  the  world  and 
the  African  continent  set  forth  ambitious  strategic 
frameworks 
transformation. 
The  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  establishes  a  strong 
foundation  to  support  the  implementation  of  both 
Agendas  by  aligning  all  financing  flows  and  policies 
with economic and social priorities.
for  a  socioeconomic 
The  Kigali  Amendment  to  the  Paris  Agreement 
on Climate Change reinforces the Agendas by setting 
environmental targets and time frames. My delegation 
recognizes  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating 
Agency’s  efforts  aimed  at  strengthening  capacities 
at  the  continental,  national  and  regional  levels,  as  we 
assert that efficient, robust and coordinated efforts are 
imperative  for  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
two Agendas.
Throughout  the  continent,  notable  socioeconomic 
progress has been achieved since 2015. In that regard, 
we  congratulate  the  African  Union  and  the  NEPAD 
Agency on the finalization of the Tripartite Free Trade 
Area Agreement in July. That marked the beginning of 
the  operationalization  of  the  Agreement,  namely,  the 
implementation of flagship projects of the programme 
for infrastructure development in Africa.
The  agricultural  sector  is  an  important  one  for 
Africa’s sustainable development. Achieving impactful 
agricultural  transformation  will  necessitate  strong 
coordination between partners in country-led processes. 
Renewed  partnerships  built  on  mutual  accountability 
will  help  Governments, 
the  private  sector,  civil 
society, farmers and farmers’ cooperatives, as well as 
development partners, to deliver on the results needed 
to reach the targets set by the Malabo Declaration on 
Accelerated  Agricultural  Growth  and  Transformation 
for  Shared  Prosperity  and  Improved  Livelihoods. 
In  that  regard,  we  note  the  efforts  of  the  African 
Union  to  strengthen  mutual  accountability  through 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme partnership platform.
Despite  notable  advancements, 
the  African 
continent  continuously  faces  systemic  challenges. 
Investing 
the 
continent will require cross-sectoral inclusive policies 
to  provide  youth  and  women  equal  opportunities  to 
in  people-centred  development  on 
take  part  in  the  prosperity  of  The  Africa  We  Want 
Agenda.  We  note  the  continental  education  strategy 
for  Africa  and  the  gender-equality  strategy,  which 
are  the  blueprints  for  mainstreaming  and  scaling  up 
education  and  the  promotion  of  gender  and  women’s 
empowerment. Furthermore, the African Peer Review 
Mechanism demonstrates the valuable African efforts 
that have been made to prevent conflict by addressing 
the  root  causes  and  drivers  of  conflict.  Through 
initiatives such as Silence the Guns by 2020, the African 
continent has underscored the nexus between security 
and  development  and  the  importance  of  conflict 
prevention and response to early-warning signals with 
rapid intervention to protect civilians.
The 
Joint  United  Nations-African  Union 
Framework  for  an  Enhanced  Partnership  in  Peace 
and  Security  is  an  important  blueprint  for  boosting 
the  coordination  between  the  two  organizations  at  all 
levels. The implementation of the United Nations and 
the African Union’s development agendas through the 
pillars provided by the NEPAD Agency will be realized 
only if the global commitment of leaving no one behind 
is  upheld  through  mutually  reinforcing  partnerships. 
A  revitalized  global  partnership  for  development  is 
therefore an indispensable ingredient for success. In that 
regard, we congratulate both the United Nations and the 
African Union for the reforms that each is undertaking 
to  recalibrate  and  become  fit  for  purpose  so  as  to  be 
able  to  competently  support  the  collective  efforts  of 
African Member States to achieve the complementary 
agendas of the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063.
Lastly,  on  the  progress  on  implementing  the 
programme  of  the  2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back 
Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa, 
Rwanda  is  committed  to  working  alongside  other 
African Member States to eradicate malaria by shifting 
the  paradigm  from  malaria  control  and  prevention 
activities  to  a  scaled-up  targeted  identification  and 
response,  where  enhanced  malaria  surveillance  and 
responses will prevent infection and shrink the malaria 
map across the continent.
Mr.  Annakou  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank 
you, Mr. President, for having organized this important 
meeting.  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the two reports on development 
in Africa (A/72/223 and A/72/269). I would also like to 
thank Mr. Mayaki, Chief Executive Officer of the New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), for his 
efforts to support the African continent.
8/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
My  country’s  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Group of African States.
This plenary meeting on NEPAD is being held two 
years  after  the  adoption  by  world  leaders  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  is  based 
on the idea of leaving no one behind. This meeting is 
also  taking  place  following  the  adoption  by  African 
leaders  of  Agenda  2063,  which  provides  a  50-year 
plan  for  peace,  security  and  development  in  Africa, 
and  following  the  adoption  of  the  African  Union’s 
first  10-year  plan.  Agenda  2063  is  centred  around 
people,  who  are  both  the  instruments  and  the  goals 
of  development.  In  order  to  move  from  planning  to 
comprehensive and integrated implementation, NEPAD 
and African regional economic commissions must play 
a central role in aligning the Sustainable Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  and  the  African  Union’s  10-year  action 
plan in order to implement those goals and targets at the 
national and regional levels, while taking into account 
the national, cultural and religious specificities of the 
people  of  the  continent.  In  that  regard,  we  stress  the 
importance of coordinated integration in Africa. That 
requires integration first at the national level and then 
at  the  regional  level,  and  the  regions  must  also  work 
together to ensure integration throughout the continent.
Despite  all  the  efforts  deployed  throughout  the 
continent and the progress made in certain areas with 
the  support  of  development  partners,  the  African 
continent  faces  many  challenges  in  implementing  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  including 
poverty,  violence,  conflicts,  climate  change,  capital 
outflows,  migration  and  many  others.  The  continent 
also  suffers  from  high  unemployment  levels;  poor 
education levels, both quantitatively and qualitatively; 
and a lack of basic services, such as electricity, water 
and sanitation.
As  we  face  those  challenges,  developed  countries 
must honour the commitments they made at the main 
United Nations conferences on Africa. They must also 
support  African  countries  in  strengthening  economic 
stability  and  help  them  to  attract  investment.  That 
will contribute to capacity-building in Africa without 
exhausting the continent’s natural resources. That will 
lead to true human-resource development in Africa and 
must also involve the private sector, so as to facilitate 
technology  transfers,  especially  in  food  security  and 
infrastructure, and empower youth and women so that 
they can gain the necessary competencies to fully carry 
out the SDGs.
With  regard  to  peace  and  security  in  Africa, 
many  countries  on  our  continent, 
including  my 
country, Libya, continue, regrettably, to suffer from a 
deteriorating security situation and armed conflicts. In 
that regard, we stress the intrinsic link between security 
and development. There can be no development without 
security and no security without development. That is 
why  we  must  urgently  support  the  countries  facing 
challenges  or  recently  emerging  from  conflict,  so  as 
to improve stability and security and prevent conflicts, 
maintain peace and improve conditions after conflicts 
have ended. Indeed, the African continent cannot move 
forward  economically  or  developmentally  without 
enjoying  peace,  security  and  stability  and  without  a 
strengthened rule of law, good governance and respect 
for human rights.
My  country,  Libya,  like  many  other  countries, 
is  a  transit  country  for  migrants  and  is  suffering 
from  instability  owing  to  significant  flows  of  illegal 
migration,  as  well  as  transnational  crime,  human 
trafficking  and  other  issues,  which  are  all  the  result 
of  challenges  relating  to  border  control.  In  that 
connection, I affirm that migration is an international 
multidimensional problem and not merely a national or 
regional one. We must not place the responsibility for 
solving it on countries of transit. We must address the 
root causes of the problem, not its symptoms, in order to 
bring about development in countries of origin, with the 
support  of  destination  countries,  through  technology 
transfers  and  by  strengthening  capacity-building, 
creating  decent  working  conditions,  supporting  small 
and medium-sized enterprises and working to combat 
the organizations and groups involved in trafficking in 
migrants in countries of origin and destination.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda focus on the need to 
mobilize  financial  resources  to  achieve  the  SDGs.  In 
that  connection,  we  must  note  that  many  developing 
countries,  especially  in  Africa,  including  Libya,  are 
losing  part  of  their  wealth  owing  to  illicit  financial 
outflows,  both  on  the  continent  and  beyond.  The 
countries  to  which  those  funds  have  been  sent  must 
therefore work to detect where those funds are situated 
and return them to their countries of origin, so that the 
latter  will  be  able  to  benefit  from  them  and  finance 
infrastructure. 
their  development  plans  and 
their 
17-33710
9/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
In  order  to  combat  the  problem,  we  must  take  the 
following measures.
First,  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
especially  African  countries,  should  not  serve  as 
financial havens for those funds. We must put an end 
to  the  illicit  financial  flows  and  stop  encouraging 
corruption.  The  question  is,  if  developed  countries 
did  not  provide  corrupt  organizations  with  secure 
financial  havens,  would  that  corruption  be  able  to 
persist  and  develop  exponentially  to  its  current  level, 
which  is  valued  in  trillions  of  dollars,  according  to 
estimates  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
financial organizations?
Secondly, those same countries that have received 
such illicit funds must work to resolve the problem by 
identifying  where  those  monies  are  and  encouraging 
bilateral  cooperation  with  the  countries  of  origin  of 
those funds so that they can be recovered. Only 3 per 
cent  of  the  funds  that  have  been  covertly  smuggled 
out have been returned to the countries of origin, and 
that  despite  the  protocols  and  conventions  aimed  at 
combating corruption.
Thirdly, we must establish a global mechanism to 
combat financial smuggling and to facilitate the return of 
such funds to the countries of origin. The United Nations 
system,  including  its  entities  and  institutions,  must 
collaborate with the World Bank and the International 
Monetary Fund to accelerate the implementation of such 
a mechanism, which must be adopted and respected by 
countries  in  developing  and  developed  countries,  as 
well as by financial organizations.
In  conclusion,  let  us  translate  our  words  into 
actions. We must have the genuine political will to take 
the  practical  measures  needed  to  combat  the  ongoing 
haemorrhaging  of  the  funds  of  developing  countries 
in Africa and throughout the world. I hope we are not 
obliged to meet again next year to discuss this agenda 
item  and  repeat  the  same  words  and  declarations 
without having made any tangible progress on that very 
important and urgent issue.
Mr. Plasai (Thailand): The Kingdom of Thailand 
aligns  itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Brunei  Darussalam  on 
behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN).
Africa has come a long way. With abundant natural 
resources and vast potential, the continent is now one 
of  the  fastest-growing  regions  of  the  world.  Over  the 
decades,  Africa  has  also  worked  successfully  to  deal 
with  various  challenges  of  a  political,  economic  or 
social nature. Thailand commends the role of the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  in 
fostering  integration  and  development  in  Africa  by 
enhancing  trade  flows,  the  movement  of  people,  the 
development  of  human  resources,  youth  and  women’s 
empowerment,  as  well  as  environmental  and  food 
security.  Thailand  also  congratulates  the  African 
Union  on  its  fifty-fourth  anniversary  this  year.  We 
support NEPAD’s first 10-year plan on the way towards 
achieving  Agenda  2063  of  the  African  Union,  as  it 
provides a joint comprehensive vision for an integrated 
and prosperous Africa.
In recent years, our world has faced increasing acts 
of  violence,  particularly  against  women  and  children, 
terrorism,  conflicts  and  political  instability.  That  has 
undermined  progress  towards  development  in  many 
countries  and  regions,  including  Africa.  Now  more 
than  ever,  we  need  to  come  together  to  address  the 
root  causes  of  those  problems,  namely,  poverty  and 
social  inequality.  More  importantly,  it  is  imperative 
for  the  international  community  to  join  hands  in 
helping  countries  in  post-conflict  situations  ensure  a 
smooth transition and sustain peace through effective 
peacebuilding and reconstruction.
Asia  and  Africa  have  faced  similar  development 
challenges,  be  it  in  achieving  sustainable  agriculture, 
ensuring  equal  and  universal  access  to  health  care  or 
strengthening infrastructure development. As Thailand 
has  now  become  a  donor  country,  we  are  committed 
to  extending  our  regular  support  and  assistance  to 
Africa through various forms of cooperation, including 
scholarships,  training  and  local-to-local  knowledge 
transfers.  Thailand  also  ranks  first  among  ASEAN 
countries as a trading partner with Africa and third in 
term of investment in the continent.
We  have  redefined  our  cooperation  with  Africa 
on  the  basis  of  trust  and  mutual  interests  under 
the  Thailand-Africa  Partnership 
for  Sustainable 
Development  scheme.  The  main  purpose  is  to  share 
with our African friends the philosophy of His Majesty 
the late King Bhumibol Adulyadej — the Sufficiency 
Economy Philosophy — our home-grown approach to 
sustainable  development.  We  believe  that  philosophy 
can be adapted to meet the needs of Africa in the areas 
of  agriculture,  public  health  and  human-resources 
development,  among  others,  especially  in  rural  areas. 
10/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
through  projects  under 
Today,  21  countries  have  developed  cooperation  with 
Thailand 
the  Sufficiency 
Economy  Philosophy  for  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  Partnership.  In  Africa,  Sufficiency  Economy 
Philosophy  projects  have  been  successfully  launched 
and implemented in Lesotho and Swaziland, and new 
projects will start this year in Mozambique and Senegal.
levels, 
we  give  priority  to  and  participate  in  international 
forums  to  promote  Africa’s  development,  such  as 
the  Asia-Africa  Conference,  the  Tokyo  International 
Conference  on  African  Development 
the 
New  Asian-African  Strategic  Partnership.  Those 
consultation and cooperation processes will help pave 
the way for all of us to achieve our common goals of 
sustainable development.
interregional  and  multilateral 
At 
the 
and 
On our path towards sustainable development, one 
of  the  most  challenging  tasks  at  hand  is  to  eradicate 
pandemics, which continue to leave people in developing 
and  least-developed  nations  in  dire  need  of  access  to 
appropriate health care. A part of Thailand’s dedicated 
work in health care has been on combating epidemics 
in developing nations, particularly malaria, in order to 
contribute to creating a healthy population in the Asian 
region and beyond. Thailand’s efforts in the past decade 
to  control  the  outbreak  of  malaria  have  yielded  some 
positive results. We will continue our work and have put 
in place a 10-year National Strategic Plan for Malaria 
Elimination  (2017-2026),  with  the  target  of  complete 
elimination by 2024.
Thailand has been sharing and will continue to share 
its experience and know-how with its African friends 
in health care through human-resources development, 
particularly  in  the  fields  related  to  preventing  and 
curing epidemics, as well as the management of health 
care in rural areas.
In conclusion, Thailand stands ready to cooperate 
and  work  closely  with  our  African  friends  so  that 
together  we  can  achieve  sustainable  development, 
leaving  no  one  behind.  Once  again  we  reaffirm  our 
solidarity  with  Africa.  We  hope  that  our  continued 
support will continue to contribute to development in 
Africa in a meaningful way. We also hope that it will 
truly  help  improve  the  livelihood  and  welfare  of  the 
African peoples.
global  average  over  the  past  decade.  Africa’s  rapid 
modernization has laid the groundwork for expanding 
global  partnerships  that  will  spur  the  momentum  of 
development and help bring regional stability.
The  relationship  between  Israel  and  Africa  has 
never  been  stronger.  Israeli  Prime  Minister  Benjamin 
Netanyahu  visited  Africa  several  times  over  the 
past  two  years  and  has  hosted  numerous  African 
leaders  in  Jerusalem.  In  June  2017,  the  Israeli  Prime 
Minister joined the leaders of 15 West African States 
in  Liberia  for  the  fifty-first  Summit  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States,  and  in  July  2016 
Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  visited  Uganda,  Kenya, 
Rwanda and Ethiopia accompanied by business leaders 
from  more  than  60  companies  in  order  to  strengthen 
economic ties. During those visits, agriculture, health, 
innovation,  energy  and  counter-terrorism  were  key 
items on the agenda.
The theme of the current, seventy-second session of 
the General Assembly is “Focusing on people: Striving 
for peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. 
It is in that spirit that we need to focus on the things that 
we have in common, which are what unite us. African 
nations face many of the same challenges as Israel and 
must use human capital to create sustainable solutions.
Sustainable  development  in  Israel  relies  on  what 
the Secretary-General calls Israel’s “knowledge-based 
economy”,  that  is,  the  minds  of  our  people.  African 
nations  must  groom  young  people  to  think  critically 
and  creatively  —  especially  given  the  fact  that 
60  per  cent  of  the  continent  is  under  the  age  of 
24  —  as  they,  like  all  nations,  must  rely  on  human 
capacity, rather than scarce resources, to build thriving 
knowledge-based economies.
for  Development 
Israel’s  Agency 
Through 
Cooperation, 
Israel  works  with  African  partner 
countries,  United  Nations  agencies,  civil  society 
and  the  private  sector  to  further  education  and 
training,  which  is  a  key  platform  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  progress  report  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (A/72/223).  Israel’s  Agency  for 
Development Cooperation programmes are based on a 
“train the trainers” approach to institutional and human 
capacity-building,  with  professional  training  courses 
conducted in Israel and on site.
Ms.  Furman  (Israel):  African  States  continue  to 
demonstrate drive and resilience, with the African gross 
domestic product growing significantly faster than the 
In  December  2016,  Israel  hosted  a  three-day 
ministerial  conference  with  African  agriculture 
ministers. That was followed by a training session on 
17-33710
11/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
applied research in agriculture for agriculture experts. 
In  March  2017,  in  collaboration  with  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
hosted a large delegation from Africa for a study tour 
on  green  growth  and  climate  change  in  arid  lands, 
topics of concern for both Israel and African nations. 
Knowledge gained from those seminars will be useful 
in  making  progress  on  the  African  Union’s  vision  for 
providing  support  for  25  million  farming  households 
so  that  they  can  employ  climate-smart  agricultural 
practices by 2025.
Whether it be running seminars on entrepreneurship, 
partnering with UNICEF schools to teach children about 
innovation and technology, joining with UN-Women to 
build programmes on women’s economic empowerment 
or establishing emergency trauma units and conducting 
medical  operations 
the 
Government of Israel and our civil society are making 
a real difference in the lives of people across Africa and 
its youth in particular.
to  alleviate  blindness, 
While  time  does  not  permit  me  to  elaborate  on 
all  of  the  projects  and  partnerships  between  African 
States and Israel, I want to highlight one in particular. 
The  Israeli  non-governmental  organization  (NGO) 
Innovation Africa is on a mission to bring innovative 
Israeli  solar  energy  and  water  technologies  to  remote 
African villages. Active in over eight African countries, 
that Israeli NGO has already provided 1 million people 
across Africa with access to light and water.
Israel’s  commitment  to  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and 
the  African  Union 
Agenda 2063 focuses on sharing best practices through 
global partnerships. Through the exchange of ideas and 
strategies,  our  nations  can  address  mutual  challenges 
together using sustainable solutions. We stand with our 
African partners to build a brighter future.
Mr.  Kononuchenko  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  Despite  continued  weak  global  economic 
growth and the many crisis situations on the continent, 
African  countries  have  demonstrated  a 
resolute 
commitment to achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals  and  Agenda  2063  of 
the  African  Union. 
Significant  efforts  have  been  focused  on  elaborating 
national  political  strategies  for  mobilizing  domestic 
resources, broadening private-public partnerships and 
simplifying investment legislation.
decrease in foreign direct investment on the continent 
in 2016. We are of the view that African countries need 
support to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, without which the threat of reversing the 
progress achieved in recent years is very real.
takes  a 
The  Russian  Federation 
responsible 
approach to its role as a partner for African development 
and  plans  to  continue  to  increase  its  cooperation 
with 
the  continent.  Russia  continuously  provides 
intergovernmental assistance through initiatives aimed 
at assisting the poorest, highly indebted countries and 
has  forgiven  more  than  $20  billion  in  African  debt. 
Moreover,  it  uses  innovative  mechanisms  to  ease  the 
debt  burden  through  debt-for-development  schemes. 
Such  agreements  have  been  signed  with  Tanzania, 
Zambia, Mozambique and Ethiopia.
As a donor facilitating international development, 
our  country  is  carrying  out  projects  to  ensure  food 
security  and  to  improve  industrial  and  transport 
infrastructure  through  response  programmes,  funds 
and other specialized United Nations bodies. One of the 
key channels for that is the World Food Programme. In 
2017, the recipients of Russian assistance were Namibia, 
Kenya, Somalia, and the Sudan.
We  support  the  community  health-care  sector:  in 
2015, the Russian Federation was one of the first to react 
and respond to the Ebola fever outbreak by allocating 
more than $60 million. At the medical centre opened by 
Russia in Guinea, a vaccine developed in our country is 
being tested, with professional training courses being 
held for local specialists. That is particularly important 
for  improving  the  response  to  outbreaks  of  infectious 
diseases. Through UNICEF, more than $5 million has 
been  allocated  for  a  vaccine  campaign  in  Angola  to 
protect people from yellow fever.
We  consider  that  the  World  Health  Assembly’s 
decision to appoint a representative of Africa — Tedros 
Adhanom  Ghebreyesus  —  as 
the  new  Director-
General  of  the  World  Health  Organization  was  a 
timely  one.  Russia  has  supported  South  Africa’s 
initiative  to  organize  a  high-level  meeting  to  combat 
tuberculosis in 2018. We plan to participate actively in 
the  preparations  for  that  meeting  by  holding  a  global 
ministerial  conference  on  the  topic  in  Moscow  on 
16 and 17 November, in which we invite Member States 
to take part.
It  is  troubling  to  see  that  the  Secretary-General’s 
latest  progress  report  (A/72/223)  notes  a  3  per  cent 
Africa’s  future  development  largely  depends  on 
the development of the continent’s production capacity 
12/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
the  Third 
the  adoption  of 
and  trade  opportunities.  Our  delegation  accordingly 
endorsed 
Industrial 
Development Decade for Africa. In our view, the United 
Nations Industrial Development Organization will play 
a key role in carrying out the work of that 10-year plan.
Industrialization  is  impossible  without  ensuring 
that  States  on  the  continent  have  access  to  cutting-
edge  technologies.  We  therefore  value  establishing  a 
technology bank for least-developed countries. In order 
to  integrate  Africa  into  international  markets,  it  is 
clear that greater attention must be paid to developing 
its  infrastructure.  In  that  regard,  we  welcomed  the 
opening  of  the  regional  central  branch  of  the  Brazil, 
Russia,  India,  China  and  South  Africa  Development 
Bank  in  Johannesburg.  We  trust  that  it  will  generate 
additional  opportunities  for  the  entire  continent  with 
regard  to  establishing  and  implementing  large-scale 
infrastructure projects. That is fully in line with plans 
set out in the Group of 20 Communiqué at the Hangzhou 
Summit, which was aimed at supporting inclusive and 
sustainable structural transformations in Africa.
We  believe  that  the  continent  has  enormous 
potential in terms of both natural and human resources. 
It would be a grave error not to use them for the benefit 
of all humankind. We therefore call on the international 
community, in particular the United Nations system, to 
provide the necessary assistance to the region so as to 
implement the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063.
Mr.  Laassel  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States.
for  strengthening  cooperation  between 
The  Moroccan  delegation  welcomes  the  adoption 
of  the  Framework  for  a  Renewed  United  Nations-
African  Union  Partnership  on  Africa’s  Integration 
and  Development  Agenda  2017-2027,  and  hopes 
that  the  Framework,  which  will  provide  the  road 
map 
the 
two  organizations,  will  be  able  to  draw  on  effective 
monitoring mechanisms so as to ensure the achievement 
of the development goals set out by the African Union’s 
Agenda  2063.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  remains 
convinced  that  only  joint  African  efforts  based  on 
strong  regional  coordination  will  enable  African 
countries to overcome the challenges they face relating 
to sustainable development and peace and security.
(NEPAD) has underscored, despite the progress made 
in  recent  years  in  the  areas  of  economic  and  social 
development,  obstacles  continue  to  impede  efforts  to 
reach the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 
to  implement  Agenda  2063.  Among  those  obstacles 
is the problem of financing the implementation of the 
NEPAD  programme,  which,  if  left  unresolved,  could 
hinder the achievement of the goals of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063. Indeed, 
the  financing  capacity  of  most  African  Governments 
is limited.
That  situation  is  aggravated  by  a  situation  where 
we have a scarcity of funding resources, international 
financial  markets  that  are  difficult  to  access,  and 
a  decrease  in  official  development  assistance.  It  is 
therefore important to establish, together with African 
countries,  a  new  phase  of  international  cooperation 
and  partnership  for  sustainable  development  in  its 
three  dimensions  based  on  the  principle  of  shared 
but  differentiated  responsibilities  so  as  to  create 
more  opportunities 
the  necessary 
financial resources.
for  enlisting 
In 
that  context,  my  delegation  believes 
that 
encouraging  investment,  developing  infrastructure, 
improving  market  access,  and  facilitating  technology 
transfer  and  debt  relief  are  key  to  achieving  the 
economic  emergence  of  African  countries.  Moreover, 
strengthening  the  private  sector  will  help  diversify 
African  economies,  improve  added  value  and  create 
employment  and  income  opportunities.  It  is  also 
important  that  the  pledges  made  in  connection  with 
official development assistance, which is a significant 
source of financing for development — especially for 
least-developed African countries — be honoured.
requires 
Adapting  agriculture  in  Africa  is  an  essential 
component for ensuring food security. For that reason, 
appropriately  adapting  agriculture 
the 
implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change through capacity-building, technology transfer, 
and  the  financing  of  climate-related  activities.  The 
twenty-second session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  (COP  22),  held  in  Marrakech,  provided  an 
opportunity for a broader discussion on how to involve all 
governmental and non-governmental actors, including 
financial institutions, in climate-related activities.
As the report of the Secretary-General (A/72/223) 
on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
In that context, the solemn declaration adopted by 
African leaders and Heads of State at the African Action 
17-33710
13/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
Summit, held on the sidelines of COP 22, reflects the 
commitment of African leaders to defend their shared 
stance  on  combating  climate  change  and  its  effects, 
particularly  desertification.  In  that  spirit,  my  country 
has  facilitated  the  initiative  known  as  the  Adaptation 
of  African  Agriculture,  which  is  aimed  at  developing 
solutions  based  on  resilience  for  farmers  across  the 
African continent, while taking into account the impact 
of climate change on agriculture.
intra-African 
Morocco  has  promoted  South-South  cooperation 
and 
the  development  of 
trade  and 
investment  as  a  fundamental  pillar  of  its  economic 
cooperation policy in its sphere of influence in Africa. 
Accordingly,  Morocco  has 
launched  partnerships 
and  cooperation  programmes  together  with  African 
countries in numerous areas, such as education, health, 
infrastructure,  agriculture  and  vocational  training. 
In  addition,  Morocco’s  relations  with  the  African 
continent  have  enjoyed  unprecedented  growth  over 
the last decade, thanks to the numerous visits made by 
His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  to  several  African 
countries,  thereby  strengthening  our  relations.  At 
the  same  time,  together  with  the  cooperative  efforts 
initiated  by 
the 
Moroccan  Agency  for  International  Cooperation  with 
the  countries  of  Africa,  Moroccan  private  enterprises 
have  increased  their  investments  in  key  development 
sectors on the continent, such as air and sea transport, 
banking, housing, telecommunications and tourism.
the  Moroccan  Government  and 
to 
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Morocco’s 
commitment 
strengthening  South-South  and 
triangular cooperation, which encourages partnerships 
that promote financing, spur growth and create jobs so 
as to achieve the priority goals of the African continent. 
Morocco will also be active in supporting efforts aimed 
at  significantly  contributing  to  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD  and  Agenda  2063  programmes,  based  on  an 
integrated and coherent approach aimed at implementing 
the Sustainable Development Goals and bringing about 
a lasting peace that prioritizes prevention by addressing 
the root causes of conflict.
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of  Brunei  Darussalam  on  behalf  of  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations.  My  delegation  wishes  to 
thank the Secretary-General for his reports (A/72/223 
and A/72/269), which highlight the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  major  developments 
regarding  peace  and  security  and  their  interlinkage 
with sustainable development in Africa, respectively.
The impacts of the global financial crisis continue 
to  cast  a  shadow  over  many  countries.  The  pace 
of  recovery  is  uneven  across  the  globe,  even  as  we 
witnessed a modest strengthening of global economic 
activities  in  the  beginning  of  2017.  Growth  on  the 
African continent is expected to reach 2.6 per cent this 
year, but there needs to be more rapid growth so that 
African countries can accelerate their efforts to reach 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Prior  to  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, African countries had already 
set their own developmental targets under the African 
Union’s Agenda 2063. We must now strive together and 
synergize efforts to achieve the targets for the people 
in  Africa.  The  pursuit  of  sustainable  development  in 
Africa should be a collective endeavour. We all share 
the responsibility to ensure that African countries are 
not left behind. To that end, my delegation would like 
to highlight the following points.
First,  we  must  enhance  international  cooperation 
so as to mobilize financing for development in Africa. 
The  Secretary-General’s  latest  report  on  progress  in 
implementing NEPAD (A/72/223) noted that financing 
remains  a  serious  challenge  to  the  implementation  of 
the NEPAD agenda and, unless addressed, is likely to 
pose  challenges  to  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as 
well. The continuous provision of technical assistance 
and  capacity-building  is  needed  to  mobilize  domestic 
resources and combat illicit financial flows, strengthen 
the  recovery  and  return  of  stolen  assets,  broaden  tax 
bases and attract investment.
Equally  crucial  is  the  fulfilment  of  all  official 
development  assistance  commitments  and  other 
concessional 
financing  by  development  partners. 
Efforts must be made to preserve the debt-sustainability 
of  African  countries,  especially  those  impacted  by 
conflicts and natural disasters, thus freeing up resources 
for development and poverty eradication.
inclusive  and 
Secondly,  we  must  promote 
that 
sustained  growth.  The 
generate 
infrastructure 
the 
importance  of 
the  global  economy  cannot  be 
integration  of 
overstated. 
in 
African  countries  must  be  supported.  We  must  foster 
partnerships  to  support  industrialization  in  Africa  in 
Infrastructure-development  projects 
initiatives 
in  promoting 
14/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
line  with  the  Third  Industrial  Development  Decade 
for  Africa  for  the  period  2016-2025,  recognizing  its 
potential to generate employment, increase income and 
further economic diversification.
Thirdly,  we  must  strive  to  enhance  collaboration 
between the United Nations and the African continent 
in  the  area  of  sustainable  development.  NEPAD  and 
the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  are  integral  to  the 
United Nations 2030 Agenda. Indonesia looks forward 
to the further mainstreaming of those strategies in the 
operational activities of the United Nations development 
system,  and  we  also  look  forward  to  the  Secretary-
General’s December report on how the United Nations 
must be repositioned to better support national efforts, 
including  those  of  African  countries,  in  achieving 
the SDGs.
Indonesia has always been a true partner of African 
countries, including in their struggle for independence, 
as  manifested  by  the  convening  of  the  Asian-African 
Conference in 1955 in Bandung. Indonesia co-initiated 
the New Asia Africa Strategic Partnership to promote 
cooperation in various fields between the two regions. 
African  countries  are  among  the  top  recipients  of 
Indonesia’s  South-South  cooperation  programme, 
which  is  based  on  the  principles  of  equality,  mutual 
respect and non-conditionality, and is demand-driven.
At  the  Group  of  20  Summit  in  Hamburg  this 
year, our President announced his intention to further 
transform  political  ties  between  Indonesia  and  Africa 
into  concrete  economic  ties.  To  that  end,  Indonesia 
will  host  the  Indonesia-Africa  Forum  in  2018  to 
explore  economic  opportunities,  strengthen  technical 
cooperation  and  enhance  the  existing  partnership 
between both sides.
Mr.  Gumende  (Mozambique):  Allow  me  to  start 
by  congratulating  Mr.  David  Mehdi  Hamam,  Acting 
Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Africa, 
and  his  staff  for  the  successful  convening  of  Africa 
Week  2017,  an  annual  event  that  brings  together  all 
relevant stakeholders in the quest for ways and means to 
advance synergies and partnerships aimed at addressing 
the prevailing challenges afflicting the development of 
African countries and their peoples.
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Secretary-
General  António  Guterres  for  the  two  reports  under 
consideration (A/72/223 and A/72/269), as they provide 
a  clear  picture  of  the  efforts  undertaken  by  African 
countries  and  their  partners,  including  the  United 
Nations system, to implement the commitments under 
the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) 
and the African Union’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We 
Want. The complementarity between those continental 
instruments  and  the  United  Nations  Agenda  2030  on 
Sustainable Development is also very well highlighted.
I  seize  this  opportunity  to  express  the  alignment 
of  Mozambique  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States.
Since  its  inception,  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development has provided us with exceptional 
opportunities to improve capacities and policies, with a 
view to delivering results in important socioeconomic 
areas  and  promoting  public  and  private  partnerships 
that  add  to  the  growing  confidence  in  our  ability  to 
lead Africa on the path to socioeconomic development, 
peace and stability.
The adoption of Agenda 2063 and the approval of 
its 13 flagship projects also bear witness to our resolve 
to be the subjects and owners of our own destinies. We 
believe that the strategic impacts of those home-grown 
solutions  will  provide  quick  wins,  with  the  potential 
to improve the positive trends in Africa with regard to 
its  economic  growth  rates,  political  stability  and  the 
strengthening  of  democratic  institutions  and  results 
in  the  social  sphere.  In  our  endeavours,  the  support 
of  development  partners  is  key  to  helping  Africa 
successfully address the prevailing challenges.
Therefore, while we are encouraged by the modest 
increase in the levels of official development assistance 
to Africa, from $15.3 billion in 2014 to $56.6 billion in 
2015, we are concerned by the fact that, since 2010, the 
increase has been due mainly to the cost of humanitarian 
aid  and  the  hosting  of  refugees  in  donor  countries. 
In  addition,  the  continued  decline  in  foreign  direct 
investment (FDI) flows to Africa is a source of concern, 
given its role in the development of infrastructure. We 
therefore  look  at  the  financial  commitments  made  at 
United  Nations  conferences,  including  in  the  Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  of  the  Third  International 
Conference on Financing for Development, with hope.
The  call  for  action  to  implement  Agenda  2063 
reminds  us  that  agriculture  continues  to  be  a  major 
driver  of  development  and  source  of  livelihood  in 
Africa, particularly in rural areas, where the majority 
of our people live. In that vein, our efforts to eradicate 
poverty also address the need to modernize agriculture. 
17-33710
15/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
Experience  proves  that,  with  the  right  policies  and 
support, progress in promoting sustainable agriculture 
and combating malnutrition is possible.
drugs.  Major  progress  has  also  been  made  in  child 
immunization, and overall access to health services has 
substantially increased.
Therefore,  at  the  national  level,  our  2015-2019 
five-year  agricultural  plan  was  defined  as  the  basis 
for  development,  owing  to  the  fact  that  88  per  cent 
of  Mozambicans  rely  on  agriculture.  Therefore,  the 
Strategic  Plan  for  the  Development  of  the  Agrarian 
Sector  (PEDSA)  for  2011-2020  strongly  supports  the 
family sector, which still comprises the largest number 
of  agricultural  workers.  PEDSA  also  includes  high-
productivity  farming  systems  in  the  six  sectors  that 
work  with  regional  and  international  markets.  With 
PEDSA,  we  also  aim  to  support  food  production  and 
cash  crops  so  as  to  supply  agriculture  inputs,  crop 
protection, institutional capacity and the promotion of 
research on the agriculture sector.
We are committed to continuing to encourage the 
participation of various stakeholders, including women 
and  youth.  In  our  view,  community  empowerment 
is  essential,  owing  to  the  capacity  that  it  provides 
in  improving  the  welfare  of  the  most  vulnerable  and 
protecting the environment.
As  part  of  food  security  and  nutrition  policies, 
Mozambique  established  a  national  coordination 
framework, whose priority actions include: increasing 
local  production  of  adequate  food  to  meet  nutritional 
needs  in  terms  of  quantity  and  quality,  improving 
the  capacity  of  individuals  and  families  to  provide 
sufficient resources to purchase food suitable for their 
needs,  strengthening  nutrition  surveillance  systems, 
improving the access of households to sources of safe 
drinking  water  and  energy  resources,  creating  and 
controlling food standards that ensure food safety and 
good  human  nutrition,  including  food  and  nutrition 
security  and  the  human  right  to  adequate  food  in 
school curriculums.
Achieving  agriculture  development  and 
food 
investment 
security  and  nutrition  goals  demands 
capacity  to  create  national  resilience  and  holistic, 
multi-sectoral  coordination.  It  also  requires  adequate 
flows of FDI.
As  part  of  our  national  five-year  plan, 
the 
Government  of  Mozambique  is  fully  committed  to 
providing  high-quality  health  care  to  its  people.  In 
fact, the national health system has shown significant 
improvements  over  the  past  decade  with  efforts  to 
reduce  imbalances  and  improve  the  availability  of 
Despite  that  progress,  Mozambique  still  faces 
daunting challenges in addressing malaria and the HIV/
AIDS epidemic. Malaria remains a great concern in our 
development efforts, as it accounts for a high percentage 
of Mozambique’s disease burden, with children under 
5, pregnant women, socially disadvantaged groups and 
people living with HIV/AIDS being the most vulnerable.
As  part  of  Mozambique’s  development  plan,  the 
Ministry for Health is actively engaged in establishing 
participative  and  integrated  strategies  to  mitigate  the 
impact  of  diseases  that  directly  affect  the  social  and 
economic  structure.  It  also  has  a  strategy  in  place 
that  combines  efforts  to  secure  more  flexible,  better 
trained health personnel, as well as a close-monitoring 
mechanism  for  malaria  eradication.  As  a  result, 
Mozambique  has  made  significant  steps  towards  the 
reduction  of  malaria  incidence  and  has  increased  the 
number of health units capable of performing malaria 
diagnosis on the spot. Our efforts are geared towards 
measures aimed at increasing the collective awareness 
of good practices with a view to eliminating the scourge 
of malaria.
In  efforts  to  address  malaria,  partnerships  are 
of  the  essence.  To  that  end,  Mozambique  joined 
the  Southern  African  Development  Community’s 
Malaria  Elimination  Framework,  which  includes  the 
eight  countries  that  signed  the  Malaria  Elimination 
Agreement in 2009, setting 2020 as a target for malaria 
eradication.  That  regional  approach  played  a  pivotal 
role in strengthening the ongoing transborder initiatives 
and their sustainability.
Guided  by  the  NEPAD  agenda,  Mozambique  is 
committed  to  good  governance.  In  that  context,  we 
adhered  to  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  in 
March  2003,  followed  by  the  submission  of  progress 
reports in 2014 and 2015. The country is undertaking 
its  second  evaluation,  which  will  be  concluded  and 
submitted by mid-2018.
I would like to conclude this statement by stressing 
our  unwavering  commitment  to  fulfilling  the  pan-
African vision of an integrated, prosperous and peaceful 
Africa,  driven  by  its  own  citizens  and  representing  a 
dynamic  force  in  the  international  arena.  That  is  the 
Africa we want, this is the Africa we seek to build for 
the  next  generations,  this  is  the  Africa  we  hope  our 
16/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
partners will continue to support. The Government of 
Mozambique  remains  committed  to  accelerating  and 
redoubling its efforts.
Mr.  Sinirlioğlu  (Turkey):  I  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
organizing  this  debate.  I  congratulate  the  Office  of 
the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  for  organizing  the 
2017 Africa Week at the United Nations. I also thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  substantive  reports 
(A/72/223  and  A/72/269)  on  the  progress  achieved  in 
the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  on  the  causes  of  conflict 
in Africa.
including 
the  continent.  Despite 
I would like to begin by commending the efforts of 
the African countries, the African Union and African 
subregional  organizations, 
the  NEPAD 
Planning  and  Coordination  Agency,  which  contribute 
to  the  development  and  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security  on 
tremendous 
challenges,  Africa  is  making  great  strides  towards 
achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  while 
trying  to  find  African-led  solutions  to  the  ongoing 
crises  in  various  parts  of  the  continent.  Africa’s 
increasing economic growth and its genuine initiatives 
to prevent and solve its crises deserve the support of the 
international community.
Turkey’s Africa Partnership Policy fully embraces 
the principle of African solutions to African issues. We 
believe that the African people and African Governments 
have the best knowledge and the most suitable answers to 
their problems. With its expertise and capacity, Turkey 
remains determined to assist the African countries in 
their  efforts.  Turkey,  as  a  strategic  partner  of  Africa, 
has joined the African countries in their development 
efforts with substantive infrastructure programmes and 
projects and humanitarian assistance. Turkey also plays 
an important part in supporting security and stability in 
Africa through its participation in United Nations field 
missions and through its bilateral engagements.
Turkey has diversified and significantly increased 
its  assistance  to  Africa  in  recent  years.  The  Global 
Humanitarian  Assistance  Report  2016  ranked  Turkey 
the  second-largest  donor  country  worldwide  with  its 
$6 billion in humanitarian spending. Turkey ranks first 
in terms of its official humanitarian assistance ratio by 
national income.
Turkey  has  multiplied  its  official  development 
than  a 
assistance 
hundredfold since 2005. While taking critical initiatives 
to  sub-Saharan  Africa  more 
to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  crisis-stricken  African 
nations,  Turkey  focuses  on  capacity  development  and 
institution-building in many African countries. Turkish 
development  efforts  are  not  limited  to  infrastructure 
projects 
through 
education  and  vocational  training,  which  have  a 
genuine impact.
capacity-building 
include 
and 
information 
Those  capacity-building  efforts  stretch  across 
all  fields,  including  macroeconomic  management, 
land  surveys,  urbanization  projects,  agricultural 
productivity, medical treatment and hospital management, 
communication  and 
technologies  and 
transport. Education is a field of advanced cooperation 
between Turkey and its African counterparts. Yesterday, 
we hosted education ministers from African countries 
in  Istanbul  at  the  Turkey-Africa  Education  Ministries 
Conference. Each year, Turkey provides around 1,000 
higher-education  scholarships  to  African  students. 
There are several technical training programmes carried 
out  by  various  Turkish  Ministries  and  Government 
agencies, either in Turkey or in Africa.
is  key 
increase 
Local  capacity 
in  Turkey’s 
development  assistance  strategy.  For  instance,  the 
vocational  training  centre,  established  by  the  Turkish 
Cooperation  and  Coordination  Agency  in  Khartoum, 
provides  necessary  skill  sets  for 
the  youth  and 
contributes to the flourishing of local economies. The 
centre has so far provided training to more than 15,000 
young people in 10 different sectors.
Turkey  also  shares  its  expertise  in  agriculture,  a 
key sector for Africa’s development, through vocational 
training  programmes,  experience-sharing  and  best-
practices  courses  held 
in  Turkey.  Infrastructure 
projects,  such  as  the  construction  of  roads,  ports, 
irrigation  systems  and  schools,  are  important  for 
capacity-building  and  improving  basic  services,  food 
security and human-resources development in African 
countries.  Turkey  provides  African  Governments  and 
local  authorities  with  grants  and  technical  assistance 
for  infrastructure  projects  and  supports  the  African 
private-sector  initiatives  through  EXIMBANK  loans 
and other facilities.
With 
that  understanding,  Turkey 
is  building 
or  rehabilitating  dams  for  agricultural 
irrigation 
and  water  management  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Our 
Cooperation Agency, in collaboration with Turkish and 
local  non-governmental  organizations,  is  establishing 
in  Somalia, 
agriculture  schools  and  greenhouses 
17-33710
17/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
Sudan  and  other  parts  of  Africa.  Two  research  and 
training  hospitals  that  Turkey  constructed  in  Darfur 
and  Mogadishu  in  2014  and  2015,  respectively,  are 
good  examples  of  Turkey’s  determination  to  fulfil 
its  unwavering  commitment  to  Africa,  even  under 
difficult  conditions.  Turkey  also  collaborates  with 
African  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises  (SMEs) 
to  carry  out  sustainable  development  projects  aimed 
at  strengthening  industrialization  and  job  creation 
in  various  African  countries.  In  that  connection,  we 
also organize training programmes and field trips for 
African SMEs in Turkey.
In 
We know that overall stabilization and socioeconomic 
development efforts in Africa cannot succeed without 
economic  empowerment  and  the  active  engagement 
of  women  and  youth. 
that  context,  Turkey 
implements joint projects with the African Union and 
African  countries  for  the  capacity-building  of  young 
entrepreneurs,  including  women.  Turkey  organizes 
comprehensive training programmes and field trips in 
cooperation with the African Union on entrepreneurship, 
business start-ups, development and capacity-building. 
One such event, designed for Somali women and young 
entrepreneurs,  was  held  within  the  framework  of  the 
Somali High-level Partnership Forum, which took place 
in Istanbul in 2016. The Bazaar Africa, which opened 
in  2016,  gave  visibility  to  the  economic  capacity  and 
productivity of African women.
An  extensive  network  composed  of  39  Turkish 
embassies, development agencies across the continent, 
Turkish Airlines and Turkish businessmen’s associations 
across  the  continent  play  an  active  role  in  efforts  to 
help African countries tap Africa’s real economic and 
business  potential  in  order  to  create  an  environment 
conducive  to  peace  and  prosperity.  That  network  is 
present in many crisis-affected regions of Africa and is 
doing a great job for the African people.
Mr.  Suan  (Myanmar):  It  has  been  almost  two 
decades  since  the  inception  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  It  is  a  collective 
vision  and  strategic  framework  for  African  countries 
that has the aim of eliminating poverty and achieving 
a  sustainable  path  of  growth  and  development  on 
the continent.
Over  the  years,  we  have  witnessed  encouraging 
progress made by many African countries. Nevertheless, 
many  challenges  remain 
to  be  addressed.  Some 
African  countries  are  still  grappling  with  economic 
uncertainty,  political  instability,  poor  connectivity 
and 
infrastructure,  climate  change  and  natural 
disasters, which impede the achievement of sustainable 
development on the continent.
We are encouraged by the impressive progress made 
by  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure  Development 
in  Africa  (PIDA),  which  focuses  on  16  cross-border 
projects. It will further strengthen connectivity among 
African  countries.  The  successful  implementation 
of  PIDA  will  contribute  to  reaching  NEPAD’s  goals 
of  promoting  accelerated  growth  and  sustainable 
development,  eradicating  widespread  and  severe 
poverty,  and  halting  the  marginalization  of  Africa  in 
the globalization process.
Despite  the  adverse  effects  that  weak  global 
economic  conditions  have  on  Africa’s  growth 
performance,  African  countries  continue  to  make 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  priorities  of 
NEPAD,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  infrastructure, 
agriculture  and  gender  mainstreaming.  While  some 
African  countries  are  experiencing 
infrastructure 
development,  the  Secretary-General,  in  his  report 
on  progress  in  implementing  the  NEPAD  agenda 
(A/72/223),  pointed  out  that  African  countries  need 
to  undertake  the  reforms  necessary  to  attract  local 
and  foreign  private-sector  partners  for  investment 
in  infrastructure,  including  through  the  creation  of 
enabling  regulatory  and  legal  frameworks.  I  strongly 
believe  that  such  reforms  will  bring  more  foreign 
investors to the region. At the same time, I would like 
to urge development partners to support infrastructure 
development in Africa through financing and capacity-
building.
Asia and Africa are the continents of opportunities 
and challenges. Given the similarity of the development 
paths of our two continents, we recognize tremendous 
potential  in  our  collaboration  for  mutual  benefit  in 
many  areas  through  South-South  cooperation  and  the 
New Asian-African Strategic Partnership.
Myanmar  was  one  of  the  leading  countries  in 
building  friendship  and  solidarity  among  Asian  and 
African countries more than six decades ago, as it was 
one  of  the  organizers  for  the  historic  Asian-African 
Conference,  which  is  better  known  as  the  Bandung 
Conference.  As  Myanmar  and  African  friends  have 
deep-rooted  traditional  relationships,  Myanmar  will 
continue  to  stand  firmly  in  supporting  NEPAD’s 
18/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
objectives of political stability, high economic growth 
and sustainable development.
Myanmar,  like  many  countries  in  Africa,  lagged 
behind  in  development  owing  to  decades  of  internal 
armed  conflict.  Since  the  new  Government  came 
into  office  in  March  2016,  we  have  set  peace  and 
national  reconciliation  as  top  priorities,  with  the  aim 
of establishing a democratic federal union. Significant 
progress  has  been  achieved  in  the  peace  process. 
Peace  and  stability  are  prerequisites  for  sustainable 
economic development.
On  the  economic  front,  Myanmar  has  opened  its 
doors  to  responsible  foreign  investment,  which  could 
provide  much-needed  employment  opportunities. 
Myanmar’s 12-point economic policy has been crafted 
to  achieve  many  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, including poverty alleviation, the enhancement 
of infrastructure investment, as well as investment in 
agriculture, the private sector and small and medium-
sized enterprises. At the same time, we are reaching out 
to the international community for a new approach that 
will  deepen  engagement  and  cooperation  at  both  the 
bilateral and the multilateral levels. Myanmar therefore 
looks forward to enhancing our engagements with our 
African friends in their development endeavours within 
the framework of South-South cooperation.
To conclude, we would like to reiterate our support 
for  the  full  and  effective  implementation  of  NEPAD, 
the  United  Nations  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063 
for promoting peace and development in Africa, while 
building  a  mutual  understanding  that  is  based  on  our 
friendship and cooperation through the Bandung spirit 
of Afro-Asian solidarity.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  I  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
personally presiding over today’s meeting. It shows your 
interest in Africa, and I would like to convey my thanks 
for that. The debate on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) is very dear and crucial to my 
continent, and my country cherishes the opportunity to 
share its views with the entire membership.
We  note  with  appreciation 
the  findings  and 
recommendations  contained  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General, in particular the report on progress 
in the implementation of and international support for 
NEPAD (A/72/223). We also wish to thank the Office 
of the Special Adviser on Africa for its dedication and 
valuable  work  in  enhancing  international  support  for 
Africa’s development. I also wish to commend the work 
of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa,  which  has 
called for enhanced cooperation with the African Union.
As  indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 
African countries are working to mainstream the United 
Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
the  African  Union’s  Agenda  2063  into  their  national 
development  frameworks.  While  being  convinced  of 
the  multiple  benefits  of  regional  integration,  African 
countries  have  made  significant  progress  on  the 
establishment of a continental free trade area, which we 
hope will facilitate economic exchanges, create decent 
jobs,  help  to  mobilize  domestic  resources  and  attract 
extra-continental flows of funds needed for investments, 
in particular for infrastructure and development.
Having  said  that,  what  is  needed  most  is  the 
concrete mobilization of domestic resources in African 
countries. The international community should support 
the continent in achieving a sustainable growth that is 
based on a domestic production system, an effective tax-
collection  administration  and  strengthened  capacity-
building.  Africa  needs  to  benefit  from  improved 
market access, particularly to markets in the developed 
countries,  which  are  called  upon  to  show  more 
openness  to  supporting  Africa’s  development  efforts 
and its inclusion in the international system. The voices 
heard in some wealthy countries, calling for economic 
stabilization  measures,  could  raise  some  difficulties, 
as we fear that certain proposed measures will end up 
creating new obstacles for the effective contribution of 
Africa to the world economy.
The issue of the transfer of technology remains a 
long-standing,  lingering  issue.  Productive  investment 
is investment that opens up possibilities for the transfer 
of technology and is not focused exclusively on material 
profits or stock dividends.
I would like to start by saying that in addition to 
aligning  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered  by 
the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  African  States,  I  would  like  to  add  the  following 
remarks in my national capacity.
For  more  than  a  decade  now,  NEPAD  has  placed 
the  questions  of  peace,  security,  democracy,  good 
governance, human rights and women’s empowerment at 
the heart of sustainable development. While recognizing 
the political, economic and social difficulties that have 
17-33710
19/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
beset Africa’s development for decades, NEPAD is also 
the expression of Africa’s determination to establish a 
new partnership anchored in the principles of African 
leadership and, above all, ownership.
The progress that Africa has achieved finds itself 
hampered by a variety of factors. The collective actions 
undertaken  by  Africa  to  fight  poverty  continue  to 
suffer from the backlash caused by a multitude of crises 
in  various  parts  of  Africa,  as  well  as  other  setbacks 
resulting from the effects of natural disasters, climate 
change — to which Africa has contributed the least of 
any region — and volatile commodity prices. Africa’s 
resilience can and must be strengthened.
With 
respect 
to 
The 
international  community  can  contribute 
greatly to that process, and we seize this opportunity to 
call on our partners to fully support the African Union. 
Let  us  remember  that  Agenda  2063  of  the  African 
Union and its continental programmes are embedded in 
NEPAD. After a decade of implementation, NEPAD, as 
a programme of the African Union, produced a number 
of  encouraging  results,  including  the  promotion  of 
infrastructure development.
the 
the 
Trans-Sahara Highway project championed by Algeria, 
the  part  that  is  to  be  carried  out  by  my  country  has 
recently  been  completed.  That  project  will 
link 
Algeria to Nigeria and will open up the landlocked and 
deprived areas in between the two countries. It will also 
certainly be instrumental to free trade and to enhancing 
economic  exchange  between  the  North  and  the  South 
of  the  Sahelo-Saharan  region.  The  other  project,  an 
optic  fibre  link  between  Algeria  and  Nigeria  via  the 
Niger, aimed at connecting Algeria to Nigeria through 
the installation of 4,500 kilometres of terrestrial optic 
fibre, will certainly lead to positive spinoffs.
implementation  of 
Significant  progress  has  also  been  made  within 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme, to which 50 of the 55 States members of the 
African Union have committed themselves, particularly 
with  regard  to  implementing  national  agriculture  and 
food-security investment plans.
Thanks  to  its  immense  potential,  both  in  human 
and natural resources, Africa is the future of the world. 
Africa is a thriving continent that is on the right track, 
despite  real  and  evident  setbacks  and  uncertainties. 
Africa  needs  to  jumpstart  its  development  and  has 
begun  to  do  so  thanks  to  national,  regional  and 
continental  endeavours.  Africa  needs  to  be  respected 
and  viewed  as  a  partner,  not  as  a  source  of  problems 
or a threat to the comfort of others. History shows that 
the whole world still owes Africa its support in solving 
its woes, and we expect Member States to provide their 
cooperation,  mutual  respect,  genuine  partnership  and 
solidarity, which are needed now more than ever.
Ms. Guadey (Ethiopia): At the outset, let me thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  (A/72/223).  Let  me  also  thank  the  Office 
of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  the  Mission  of  the 
African Union, the Economic Commission for Africa, 
NEPAD and the United Nations Department of Public 
Information for jointly organizing Africa Week, which 
has given us a unique opportunity to exchange views on 
how to accelerate inclusive and sustainable peace and 
development in Africa. My delegation aligns itself with 
the statement delivered earlier by the representative of 
Egypt on behalf of the African Group.
Since the dawn of the millennium, Africa has been 
registering  encouraging  economic  growth,  which  has 
reduced poverty. As a result of comprehensive policies 
implemented  at  the  national,  regional  and  continental 
levels,  Africa  continues  to  be  the  second-fastest-
growing region in the world, meaning that even sceptics 
recognize it as the hopeful and rising continent.
That  does  not,  of  course,  mean  that  Africa  was 
immune  to  the  adverse  impacts  the  2008  global 
recession or the impact of the recent global commodity-
price  volatility,  which  affected  its  economic  growth. 
Moreover, despite the progress achieved in the political 
and socioeconomic areas, Africa still continues to face 
multiple  challenges  that  require  urgent  and  concerted 
solutions. That is why the leaders of Africa came together 
and endorsed Agenda 2063 of the African Union with a 
political commitment to build an integrated, prosperous 
and peaceful continent that plays its rightful role at the 
global level.
Building on the achievements of past endeavours, 
that  ambitious  vision  of  creating  the  Africa  we  want 
for  current  and  future  generations  demonstrates  the 
unflinching  political  will  and  readiness  of  African 
leaders  to  shape  the  destiny  of  the  continent  for  a 
much  better  and  transformed  Africa.  Now  more  than 
ever,  Agenda  2063  reflects  the  shared  vision  of  the 
people  of  Africa  to  fully  realize  the  development 
potential  of  the  continent,  as  well  as  comprehensive 
political,  socioeconomic  and  cultural  development, 
20/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
while respecting environmental sustainability. Indeed, 
Agenda  2063  is  an  African-led  and  African-owned 
master plan, and Africans are committed to assuming 
full  responsibility  for  its  implementation  in  line  with 
varying national and regional circumstances.
The  2063  Agenda 
is  also  a  comprehensive 
framework  for  partnership  with  the  international 
community  and  a  road  map  for  multi-stakeholder 
collaboration with the private sector, civil society and 
other development actors. The African Agenda is also 
fully aligned with the objectives of the United Nations 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  aimed  at 
realizing prosperity for all and leaving no one behind. 
Therefore Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda reinforce 
and complement each other.
In  order  to  fully  realize  the  vision  of  creating  a 
peaceful and prosperous Africa, it is important to pay 
special  attention  to  silencing  the  guns.  Africa  should 
leave  no  stone  unturned  in  working  to  achieve  that, 
for peace is the prerequisite for Africa’s development, 
which is indispensable for ensuring sustainable peace 
and security on the continent. In that regard, we have 
no option but to transform and diversify our economies 
through  inclusive  and  sustainable  industrialization. 
That  should  be  done  in  a  way  that  could  further 
translate economic growth into poverty reduction and 
job  creation,  as  well  as  into  building  resilience  so  as 
to address the adverse impacts of external shocks and 
climate change.
While  it  is  the  primary  responsibility  of  Africa 
itself to achieve its development vision, it is clear that, 
in an interconnected world, Africa requires an enabling 
and supportive global environment. In that regard, let 
me emphasize that it is important to enhance financial, 
technological  and  capacity-building  support  for  the 
2030  and  2063  Agendas  in  a  more  coordinated  and 
enhanced manner.
In that regard, we commend the cooperation between 
the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  aimed  at 
integrating  follow-up  and  reporting  mechanisms.  We 
also believe that cooperation and coordination between 
the  two  organizations  should  be  further  consolidated 
so  as  to  achieve  both  of  the  development  frameworks 
in  line  with  existing  national  and  regional  initiatives. 
The  reform  agenda  of  the  United  Nations  should  also 
consider the special development needs and challenges 
of Africa.
In  conclusion,  the  messages  of  the  Secretary-
General’s report and the many useful ideas that we have 
heard during this Africa Week will help to further foster 
international partnership in support of the development 
efforts  of  Africa.  We  hope  the  Week  has  provided 
us  an  opportunity  to  have  productive  deliberations 
between Africa and our development partners, thereby 
contributing  to  the  accelerated  implementation  of 
Agenda 2063.
Mr. Mero (Tanzania): My delegation aligns itself 
with the statement made by the representative of Egypt 
on behalf of the Group of African States.
to 
My  delegation  wishes 
commend  you, 
Mr. President, for your statement, which has encouraged 
Africans to continue to work together to address their 
own challenges. It is gratifying that the African Union’s 
Agenda  2063,  which  dovetails  with  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  is  gaining  recognition 
across  the  globe.  We  in  Africa  are  determined  to 
eradicate poverty in the short, medium and long term 
and to guarantee prosperity to our people. Our resolve 
has  come  a  long  way,  starting  in  the  African  Union 
and  its  subregional  organizations  with  their  intent  to 
generate  African  solutions  to  surmount  current  and 
future  challenges.  We  have  always  addressed  our 
challenges through common purpose and solidarity, be 
it in the areas of peace and security, or development and 
environmental issues.
We are determined, through partnerships with the 
international  community,  to  be  able,  first,  to  address 
the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  and  Agenda 
2063; secondly, to ensure that we implement the Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change; thirdly, to support the 
Secretary-General’s  reform  agenda;  and  fourthly,  to 
address  the  challenges  of  peace  and  security  through 
regional  initiatives,  including  through  partnerships 
with  the  international  community  and  other  partners. 
We  continue  to  believe  that  addressing  infrastructure 
development  on 
in 
industrialization and value addition is a step in the right 
direction. At this juncture, let me thank all cooperating 
partners  for  supporting  the  continent  through  the 
peace, security and development agenda. Support from 
partners is not in vain; it is valued and recognized by 
all of us.
the  continent  and 
investing 
In  conclusion,  let  us  work  together  in  order  to 
support the continent as it seeks to integrate itself into 
and contribute to the global economic value chain.
17-33710
21/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
Mr.  Elnour  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  my 
pleasure at the outset to stress that we align ourselves 
with the statement made by the representative of Egypt 
on behalf of the Group of African States.
It  is  also  my  pleasure  to  address  the  Assembly 
during  Africa  Week,  which  supports  an  integrated, 
prosperous,  people-centred  and  peaceful  Africa.  We 
salute our great fathers and grandfathers. We commend 
the  attention  to  and  focus  on  people  and  their  role  in 
improving  their  lives  and  developing  their  societies. 
We believe that it is high time for the United Nations, 
which adopted its Charter in 1945 with the words “We 
the peoples”, to take the initiative and lead the people to 
promote their economic, social and cultural rights and 
to strengthen the pillars of peace and security.
The  African  continent’s  contribution  to  human 
civilization has been proven since the dawn of time on 
this  Earth.  In  fact,  various  cultures  and  civilizations 
in  various  parts  of  Africa,  whether  in  the  north, 
south,  centre,  west  or  east,  have  promoted  human 
development. Africa was left behind over the past two 
decades in terms of industrialization and development; 
yet it has always played its role, and history has proved 
that Africa set the cornerstone for human civilization. 
In Africa we have significantly contributed to the great 
developments of our day.
Unfortunately,  over  the  past  several  decades,  the 
dark continent has grown into a region of conflicts. In 
fact, bloody armed conflicts have mushroomed, which 
has  increased  the  number  of  fighter  and  non-fighter 
victims.  Destruction  has  struck  various  parts  of  our 
continent. We must address the root causes of conflict, 
such  as  poverty,  the  weak  rule  of  law  and  education 
opportunities,  and  the  failure  to  use  our  resources. 
Those  factors  have  adversely  affected  the  prosperity 
and stability of our people. That is why Africa was left 
behind  in  development.  That  is  also  one  of  the  main 
causes of conflict.
In  addition,  emerging  reasons  for  conflict,  such 
as  climate  change  and  its  significant  impact  on  food 
security 
in  many  developing  African  countries, 
especially  sub-Saharan  Africa,  have  caused  great 
concern  for  our  people.  The  international  community 
must  work  together  to  avoid  the  destructive  impact 
of  climate  change.  We  hope  that  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  which  includes  the  African 
Union’s  vision  of  socioeconomic  development  on  the 
continent, will tackle the root causes of conflict so that 
Africa may enjoy sustainable peace and development.
We salute and commend the efforts of the African 
Union, which adopted its ambitious plan: Agenda 2063. 
That document provides a road map for the development 
of  Africa  and  for  the  promotion  of  its  democracy. 
We  also  have  the  pleasure  to  commend  the  efforts  of 
regional  organizations,  which  have  played  a  key  part 
in that field, such as the Intergovernmental Authority 
on Development, which includes the States of the Horn 
of Africa. As for the Sudan, we must note that we have 
made  tangible  progress  in  our  efforts  to  end  conflict 
and move towards peacebuilding and sustainable peace 
in  Darfur.  We  would  like  to  thank  all  organizations 
that  have  contributed  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Agreement between the Government of the Sudan and 
the Liberation and Justice Movement for the adoption 
of  the  Doha  Document  for  Peace  in  Darfur.  That 
agreement  has  transformed  Darfur  from  a  conflict 
region to a region of peace, stability and security.
initiative 
inclusiveness, 
I  would  also  like 
to  commend  the  national 
dialogue 
launched  by  our  Government 
with  the  participation  of  all  political  forces.  That 
was  done  in  an  effective  and  serious  way  in  order  to 
ensure  comprehensive 
transparency 
and  freedom,  and  to  address  the  main  problems  of 
the  country,  while  providing  a  national  document 
that  all  political  parties  agreed  on.  It  paved  the  way 
for  a  constitutional  and  political  future  in  line  with 
consensual visions and ambitions for addressing social, 
economic and political problems. Its recommendations 
and  decisions  were  an  achievement  that  led  to  the 
establishment of the Government of National Accord, 
which has been steering the work of our country with 
participation on the part of all political parties.
In  conclusion,  we  stress  the  need  to  redouble 
African efforts to establish a comprehensive strategic 
partnership  to  fight  terrorism  and  ensure  political 
stability  on  the  African  continent,  in  line  with  the 
Committee  of  Intelligence  and  Security  Services  of 
Africa  Conference  held  in  Khartoum  in  September, 
with  the  participation  of  leaders  in  the  fields  of 
intelligence  and  security  in  Africa.  That  will  help  to 
achieve  the  NEPAD  agenda  and  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development. In  fact,  there  can  be  no 
sustainable  peace  without  stability  and  economic  and 
human development.
22/24 
17-33710
20/10/2017 
A/72/PV.33
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  observer  of  the 
African Union.
Mr.  Mayaki  (African  Union):  I  would  first  like 
to convey my warmest congratulations to you, Sir, on 
your election as President of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-second session.
I  am  very  honoured  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
African  Union  (AU),  and  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  for  having 
organized  a  very  successful  Africa  Week.  The  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which 
is  an  African  Union  programme,  is  a  commitment  to 
action by Africa’s leaders. Embedded in Agenda 2063: 
The  Africa  We  Want,  adopted  by  the  African  Union 
in  2015,  NEPAD  continues  to  be  a  rallying  point  in 
the  continent’s  pursuit  of  transformation  and  growth, 
within  particularly  key  parameters  that  underline  the 
social  and  economic  empowerment  of  our  people, 
without exception.
The  continent  has  settled  down  and  is  now  fully 
focused  on 
implementing  economic  growth  and 
development  strategies  within  the  context  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As we know, 
Africa’s  commitments  are  also  specified  in  Agenda 
2063. During this year’s Africa Week, with its theme, 
“Supporting an integrated, prosperous, people-centred 
and  peaceful  Africa:  Towards  the  implementation  of 
Agenda  2063  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development”,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention 
that  underline  Africa’s 
advances on its socioeconomic pathways.
issues 
three 
to 
The 
is 
first 
issue 
the  demographic 
factor, 
particularly the issue of youth and youth employment. 
We know from past experience, especially that of the 
past decade, that it is not enough for economies to grow 
in  terms  of  gross  domestic  product  if  that  growth  is 
not accompanied, at acceptable levels, by growth and 
transformative change in specific human-development 
factors  —  from  jobs  and  economic  opportunities  to 
access  to  education,  health,  shelter  and  clean  water. 
With a youthful population that has a current median 
age  of  20  years  —  expected  to  rise  to  25  years  by 
2050,  which  will  still  be  below  the  global  average 
of  36  years  —  it  is  imperative  that  Africa  break  the 
generation-to-generation  poverty  cycle  that  continues 
to trap many of our people.
While  significant  progress  is  being  made  at  the 
continental  and  regional  levels,  as  well  as  within 
individual  AU  member  States,  there  are  challenges 
remaining.  With  an  average  annual  growth  rate  of 
2.5  per  cent  over  the  past  decade,  the  demographic 
factors  will  be  central  in  identifying  priority  issues 
and  public-policy  options  with  regard  to  Africa’s 
socioeconomic pathways. It is no accident that, through 
the theme of this year’s AU Summit, “Harnessing the 
demographic dividend through investments in youth”, 
the African Union dedicated 2017 to making progress 
on the issue of youth employment. The issue of youth 
is not a problem to be eliminated, it is a resource — an 
economic resource to be harnessed.
they 
An estimated 440 million young people will enter 
the labour market in Africa alone by 2030. The situation 
of young people is particularly critical in rural areas, 
where  the  lack  of  decent  work  opportunities  remains 
pervasive. The majority of rural youth are employed in 
the informal economy as contributing family workers, 
subsistence  farmers,  home-based  micro-entrepreneurs 
or  unskilled  workers,  where 
typically  earn 
low  wages  and  are  employed  under  seasonal  work 
arrangements and usually in unsafe working conditions.
The  African  Union  Commission,  the  regional 
economic  communities  and  the  NEPAD  Agency  are 
collaborating  on  several  initiatives  that  seek  to  bring 
added value to the actions being taken by AU member 
States  to  address,  on  the  one  hand,  employment 
creation and entrepreneurship development, and on the 
other, enhance the employability of the youth through 
appropriate  training.  The  African  Union  vocational 
training  and  skills-development  strategy  is  already 
enabling the youth in many African countries by helping 
them  to  acquire  industry-relevant  skills,  and  in  some 
cases,  entrepreneurship  and  business-management 
skills.  Africa  needs  to  rapidly  expand  its  capacity  to 
offer  relevant  skills  and  vocational  training  to  youth 
and women.
The  second  issue  is  that  of  trade.  While  global 
competitiveness and trading with the rest of the world 
is one of the realities of our globalized world, I would 
like  to  focus  that  issue  on  Africa’s  own  inter-  and 
intra-regional  trade.  The  potential  capacity  to  have  a 
significant impact on economic growth is massive and 
evident. Through progress on various trade instruments, 
from regional instruments to decisions and declarations 
on boosting intra-African trade and the establishment 
of  a  continental  free-trade  area,  Africa  has  made 
commendable  advances  towards  making  a  reality 
of  its  clear  political  ambition  to  expand  the  levels  of 
17-33710
23/24
A/72/PV.33 
20/10/2017
continental  trade.  That  is  an  imperative  objective  for 
Africa  if  it  is  to  realize  the  goals  and  targets  set  by 
Agenda 2063 and the SGDs.
The  need  to  accelerate  progress  on  the  policy 
front is imperative with regard to customs procedures 
and  visa  restrictions,  and  bringing  about  the  full 
ratification and use of the African passport. It is equally 
important to enhance the form, quality and diversity of 
transboundary tradable goods and services.
Within 
the  context  of 
the  African  Union 
Commission,  the  NEPAD  Agency  is  determined, 
through  various  programmes,  to  support  regional 
economic communities and AU member States in their 
efforts  to  make  further  advances,  including  on  the 
positive trends in governance and the general business 
environment  with  regard  to  macroeconomic  policies 
and  investment  options.  That  should  have  a  tangible 
impact on the capacity and quality of trade-enhancing 
factors, 
development, 
stronger  and  more  accountable  institutions  and  better 
infrastructure  —  especially  with  regard  to  transport, 
communication and electricity.
including 
human-capital 
The continent is already making progress on major 
motorways  and  regional  railway  projects  to  create 
inland connections. Such efforts need to be augmented, 
both in terms of technologies and investment financing. 
One  example  is  the  standard-gauge  railway  that  will 
connect  Kenya,  Uganda,  Rwanda  and  South  Sudan. 
On the other hand, sea transport is also an important 
feature in Africa’s trade, accounting for close to 90 per 
cent  of  Africa’s  trade  movements.  That  implies  the 
need to strengthen the functioning of seaports, which 
runs from modernization to improved administration. 
Another  example  is  the  4,500-kilometre  highway  that 
will link Algiers to Lagos.
Within the global communication context in which 
we live, expanded and widespread Internet penetration 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  It  is  a  critical  issue,  and 
Africa is moving at the same pace as the rest of the world 
in building relevant Internet capacity and systems.
My  third  and  last  point  is  about  addressing 
inequality.  Africa  has  learned  that  wealth  creation 
is  important  in  the  pursuit  of  economic  growth  and 
inclusive development, but equally important and highly 
critical for Africa is the issue of the distribution of that 
wealth in order to make sure that growth is inclusive. It 
is clear that the world, and the more so Africa, cannot 
continue  to  have  non-inclusive  growth.  It  is  not  good 
for  business,  nor  is  it  good  for  political  stability  and 
social  cohesion.  It  is  not  good  for  economic  growth. 
It is not good for peace and security. That is an issue 
that has been highlighted by our sister organization, the 
African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM). As Member 
States know, the APRM is a critical instrument for the 
improvement of our governance systems.
While inequality, especially as measured in terms 
of income and wealth levels, is a global phenomenon, 
addressing  inequality  requires  that  it  be  analysed 
and  understood  within  the  local,  socioeconomic  and 
cultural  context.  The  NEPAD  Agency,  within  the 
African  Union  framework,  aims  to  work  with  AU 
member  States  and  the  United  Nations  agencies  to 
produce a better national understanding of our situation 
and  to  provide  ways  of  measuring  inequality.  In  that 
context,  member  States  must  have  access  to  relevant 
analytical  and  decision-making  tools  to  guide  their 
policies and investments.
In conclusion, I would like to recall one, I believe, 
underlying principle in both the African Union’s Agenda 
2063  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  —  the 
commitment to results. The African Union Commission, 
the  regional  economic  communities  and  the  NEPAD 
Agency  are  keen  and  committed  to  collaborate  with 
the United Nations agencies to support member States 
in  their  efforts  to  realize  their  ambition  for  concrete 
change and impact through their development efforts.
(spoke in French)
through 
The  African  Union, 
its  cooperative 
framework  with  the  United  Nations,  is  prepared  to 
step  up  its  partnership  in  order  to  create  conditions 
conducive to accelerating swift implementation of the 
African  Union’s  Agenda  2063,  which  is  fully  in  line 
with the Sustainable Development Goals. The future of 
the world and of Africa will depend on the success of 
that implementation.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  66  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 13.
The meeting rose at 1.35 p.m.
24/24 
17-33710
