United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
51st plenary meeting
Monday, 13 November 2017, 4.30 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 4.30 p.m.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c)  Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/72/181)
List of candidates (A/72/182 and A/72/182/Add.1)
Curricula vitae (A/72/183)
The  Acting  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
there is still one vacancy on the Court to be filled. The 
Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  vote  in  respect  of  the 
remaining vacancy.
I give the floor to the representative of Uganda on 
a point of order.
Mr.  Muhumuza  (Uganda):  I  should  like  to  thank 
you, Sir, for this opportunity. Not to prolong the process, 
but I thought that we could probably use an explanation 
as  to  the  issue  of  abstentions  and  how  it  affects  the 
absolute  majority,  because  it  remains  the  same  even 
when the number of voters is reduced or changes in one 
way or the other.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Abelian  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  Unlike  other  elections 
in the General Assembly, elections for the judges of the 
International Court of Justice, as was indicated earlier, 
are regulated not only by the rules of procedure of the 
General Assembly but also by the relevant Articles of 
the Statute, which requires an absolute majority of the 
membership for the election of judges. For that reason, 
97  remains  the  absolute  majority  number  for  this 
particular election.
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  begin  the 
voting process. Ballot papers will now be distributed. 
Ballot  papers  will  be  given  only  to  the  representative 
seated  directly  behind 
the  country’s  nameplate. 
Representatives  are  requested  to  use  only  the  ballot 
papers that are being distributed.
The  two  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the 
ballot paper are eligible.
May  I  remind  delegations  that  only  the  box  next 
to the name of one candidate should be marked with a 
cross. Any ballot paper on which more than one name 
is checked will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast 
only for those whose names appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Aldoseri (Bahrain), 
Ms.  Sánchez  Rodríguez  (Cuba),  Mrs.  Le  Diffard 
(Hungary), Ms. Rheindrayani (Indonesia), Mr. McSwiney 
(Ireland) and Mr. Waweru (Kenya) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  4.40  p.m.  and 
resumed at 5.05 p.m.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-38003 (E)
*1738003*
A/72/PV.51 
13/11/2017
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members present and voting: 
Absolute majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained:
192
0
192
2
190
97
111
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari (India) 
Mr. Christopher Greenwood (United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland) 
79
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari obtained an absolute majority 
in the General Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  communicated 
the  result  of  the  voting  to  the  President  of  the 
Security Council.
The  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  has 
received from the President of the Security Council the 
following letter, which I will read out on behalf of the 
President of the Assembly:
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that,  at  the 
8096th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
13  November  2017,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
one  member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
for a term of office beginning on 6 February 2018, 
Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood  (United  Kingdom  of 
Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland)  obtained  an 
absolute majority of votes.”
The  same  candidate  was  not  successful  in  both 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  In 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  11  of  the 
Statute of the Court, it will be necessary to hold another 
meeting  to  fill  the  remaining  vacancy.  I  propose  that 
this  meeting  be  adjourned  and  that  the  52nd  meeting 
be held immediately to vote on the remaining vacancy.
It was do decided.
The meeting rose at 5.10 p.m.
2/2 
17-38003
