United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
30th plenary meeting
Thursday, 12 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Andrianarivelo-
Razafy 
took 
the Chair.
(Madagascar),  Vice-President, 
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 14 and 117 (continued), 123 and 124
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Notes by the Secretary-General (A/72/267 and 
A/72/271)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/271)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
connection  with  document  A/72/271,  members  will 
recall  a  letter  from  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  dated  25  September  2017  informing  them 
of  the  commencement  of  the  informal  consultations 
process on a zero draft of the modalities resolution for 
the  intergovernmental  conference  to  adopt  a  global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, which 
is  currently  under  way.  Once  the  draft  resolution  has 
been finalized, it will be submitted for consideration by 
the Assembly.
Mr. Skinner-Klée (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to thank the President for the reports that have 
been presented and for enabling us to have a dialogue on 
the follow-up to the international development summits. 
The interdependent and symbiotic relationship between 
the  economic,  social  and  environmental  dimensions 
of  sustainable  development  is  becoming  increasingly 
clear,  thanks  to  the  new  generation  of  universal  and 
transformational agreements resulting from the various 
summits  and  conferences,  including  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, the Addis Ababa Action 
Agenda,  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction,  the  New  Urban  Agenda  and  the  recent 
Ocean  Conference.  We  are  entering  the  third  year  of 
the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda,  and  many 
questions and challenges remain regarding their means 
of  implementation,  follow-up  and  review,  which  are 
ultimately our responsibility as Member States.
We  also  consider  the  restructuring  of  the  United 
Nations  development  system  to  be  as  timely  as  it  is 
essential for supporting Member States on their path to 
achieving their development goals. For the same reason, 
we believe that the initiatives for administrative reform 
and reform of the peace and security architecture that 
the  Secretary-General  has  presented  to  members  are 
the  right  thing  to  do  and  will  make  the  work  of  the 
Organization  more  flexible  and  efficient  generally. 
Reforming  the  system  will  be  complex,  because  it 
involves normative, organic and operational changes at 
every  level  of  the  departments  of  the  Secretariat  and 
of  the  funds,  programmes,  specialized  agencies  and 
regional commissions, as well as in the functioning of the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-32174 (E)
*1732174*
A/72/PV.30 
12/10/2017
United Nations country teams. The system of resident 
coordinators will also be part of the adjustment of the 
Secretariat’s  functions  and  budgets.  Rejuvenating  the 
United Nations will require a more agile and effective 
Organization, and in particular it will require cohesion 
and unity of purpose in the tasks for each area and how 
they all relate to one another.
We are grateful for the Secretary-General’s report 
(A/72/124)  on  reforms  based  on  the  quadrennial 
comprehensive policy review, and we look forward to 
his next report, which will further examine the resident 
coordinator role and other aspects of the system with a 
view to making progress with reforms that will result 
in greater efficiency, transparency and accountability.
From a broader perspective, the collective awareness 
of States of the interdependence of the Organization’s 
three  pillars  —  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human  rights  —  is  clear.  That  is  why  Guatemala 
supports the Secretary-General’s vision for prevention, 
because  we  firmly  believe  that  investing  more  in 
prevention will prevent and mitigate social clashes and 
armed  conflicts  where  they  originate.  In  that  regard, 
we  share  the  Secretary-General’s  prevention-oriented 
vision and approach, which in our view can be summed 
up as more and better development, in which the concept 
of sustainable peace is the driving force behind policies 
and  action  for  development.  We  therefore  affirm  the 
three pillars and the synergy between the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  sustainable  peace, 
as  well  as  the  link  between  humanitarian  activities, 
development  and  peacebuilding,  which  constitute 
a  solid  and  comprehensive  basis  for  achieving  the 
Organization’s  founding  promise  and  the  common 
goal we all share of saving future generations from the 
scourge of war.
Mr. 
Iliichev 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  We  have  been  closely  studying  the 
information being presented on the Secretary-General’s 
proposals for reform of the United Nations in the areas 
of the Organization’s peace and security architecture, 
development system and management. We understand 
the  importance  of  adapting  the  Organization  to  the 
changing  conditions  and  new  realities  of  our  time. 
Reforming  a  global  organization  is  a  continuing 
process. We believe firmly that the main goal of reforms 
should be to improve their practical effectiveness. We 
must  avoid  weakening  the  identity  and  specialties 
of  the  various  entities  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
essential to avoid situations where the United Nations 
bodies that specialize in peacebuilding, peacekeeping, 
humanitarian  aid  and  development  assistance  invade 
one another’s areas of responsibility. We must respect 
and  observe  the  principle  of  the  division  of  labour  or 
we will be unable to avoid duplication of effort, which 
reduces effectiveness.
We  understand  the  Secretary-General’s  desire  to 
emphasize conflict prevention in his peace and security 
reforms.  That  is  indeed  an  important  principle.  We 
believe that such efforts in the United Nations should 
be conducted only in strict recognition of the Charter 
of the United Nations, the principle of State sovereignty 
and  the  leading  role  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
fundamental  principles  of  the  international  system  in 
that area are affirmed in Security Council resolution 2171 
(2014). However, the chief responsibility for preventing 
conflicts  and  dealing  with  their  consequences  rests 
with the States themselves.
In  reforming  the  peace  and  security  architecture, 
it  is  also  important  to  take  into  account  the  fact  that 
issues  related  to  peacebuilding  and  sustaining  peace 
are  regulated  by  the  landmark  Security  Council 
resolutions 1645 (2005) and 2282 (2016) and by related 
General  Assembly  decisions.  They  formulate  a  single 
definition of the term “sustaining peace” that is firmly 
tied  to  peacebuilding  efforts  and  is  the  shared  duty 
and responsibility of both Governments and the other 
stakeholders  in  national  processes.  There  must  be  no 
expansive  interpretation  of  the  concept  of  sustaining 
peace that treats it as a new direction for the work of 
the  United  Nations.  The  Member  States  have  never 
discussed,  let  alone  agreed  on,  any  plan  of  action  or 
agenda in the area of sustaining peace.
The  United  Nations  development  system  is  a  key 
element  in  its  support  to  countries  that  need  support 
in their efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals.  It  is  important  to  ensure  that  the  process  of 
adapting it to new conditions is conducted within the 
framework of intergovernmental agreements as outlined 
in resolution 71/243, on the quadrennial comprehensive 
operational  activities  policy  review.  The  review 
provides  a  clear  and  updated  view  of  the  principles 
on which the United Nations should base its activities 
in  the  foreseeable  future.  We  believe  that,  as  before, 
the area where the operational programmes and funds 
should  apply  their  efforts  should,  as  before,  continue 
to be development itself. Their humanitarian assistance 
activities  are  regulated  by  the  relevant  decisions  of 
Member  States,  including  related  participation  in 
2/3 
17-32174
12/10/2017 
A/72/PV.30
humanitarian clusters under the auspices of the Office 
for  the  United  Nations  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs. We are concerned about attempts to mandate 
the  United  Nations  development  system  with  the 
obligatory,  if  not  almost  predominant  task  of  conflict 
prevention.  That  area  is  the  responsibility  of  other 
United Nations Charter entities.
We also believe that it is unreasonable to directly 
link  the  implementation  of  resolution  71/243  with  the 
transformation of the Economic and Social Council and 
the United Nations Department of Economic and Social 
Affairs (DESA). While we do not deny that the Economic 
and Social Council and DESA play an important role in 
coordinating and supporting the activities of operational 
programmes  and  funds,  our  delegation  nevertheless 
recalls that those are independent processes. We call for 
the  adoption  of  coordinated  decisions  on  these  issues 
in the framework of the upcoming review of resolution 
68/1, which is to take place at the current session.
We  are  also  aware  of  the  initiatives  of  the 
Secretary-General on the reform of the Organization’s 
management  system.  Before  proceeding  to  consider 
those  initiatives,  it  is  necessary  to  understand  what 
has been accomplished to date. Without assessing the 
status of the implementation of previous projects in the 
field  of  management  reform,  it  will  be  impossible  to 
understand whether the Organization is heading in the 
right direction. We believe that strategic efforts should 
be aimed at defining the common goals and orientation 
of  these  reforms.  Relevant  proposals  should  contain 
clear indicators of achievements and detailed plans for 
the realization of benefits. It is obvious that any increase 
in  expenditures  is  unacceptable  for  Member  States, 
especially in the light of the current optimization of the 
United Nations budget. Any initiative should be based 
on clear mandates from the General Assembly.
for 
innovation 
We  consistently  advocate 
transparency, 
efficiency  and  accountability  in  the  work  of  the 
Secretariat.  In 
that  regard,  we  propose  seeking 
opportunities  for 
in  planning,  budget 
formulation  and  staffing  within  the  framework  of 
the  existing  powers  of  the  Secretary-General.  It  is 
necessary  to  observe  all  existing  mandates  in  the 
transformation process, to provide Member States with 
full control over possible changes in the Organization, 
and  to  conduct  a  comprehensive  assessment  of  the 
advantages  and  disadvantages  and  the  benefits  and 
costs of any innovation.
We are studying the report of the Secretary-General 
containing proposals for the transformation of the United 
Nations  management  system  (A/72/492).  We  express 
our  readiness  to  participate  constructively  in  further 
discussions on the topic during the substantive part of 
the seventy-second session of the General Assembly.
The quality of interaction between States and the 
Secretariat,  which  is  built  on  trust,  determines  the 
effectiveness  of  the  work  of  the  Organization.  In  that 
connection,  we  expect  the  Secretariat’s  reassessment 
of  ongoing  reforms  to  take  into  account  the  existing 
recommendations  and  criticisms  voiced  by  many 
Member States, which are the consumers of the services 
of the Secretariat. It is on their support that the success 
of any initiative depends.
The Acting President (spoke in French): We have 
heard the last speaker in the debate on these items.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda items 14, 117, 123 and 124.
The meeting rose at 10.25 a.m.
17-32174
3/3
