United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
28th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 3 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 110 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/72/1)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 
Secretary-General presented his annual report (A/72/1) 
to the General Assembly at its 3rd plenary meeting on 
19 September 2017.
Mr.  Mnatsakanyan 
(Armenia):  Once  again, 
Mr.  President,  Armenia  congratulates  you  on  your 
election and assures you of its full support.
The  Secretary-General’s  first  report  (A/72/1)  since 
his  election  to  lead  our  Organization  reflects  the 
considerable  complexity  of  addressing 
the  many 
objectives  of  our  collective  global  agenda.  We 
commend the Secretary-General for his strong focus on 
the major challenges before us and for the action he has 
taken  in  a  short  period  of  time.  Above  all,  the  report 
is a manifestation of a commitment to multilateralism 
as  an  effective  instrument  for  addressing  the  mix  of 
challenges.  It  is  a  refreshing  reminder  that  it  is  not 
possible for individual States in isolation to address our 
global  challenges,  from  climate  change  to  population 
growth, from displacement and migration to inequality 
and  exclusion,  and  from  national 
to 
global  terrorism  and  threats  to  peace  and  security. 
Multilateralism is not optional, and we agree on that.
institutions 
The  United  Nations  will  have  to  recalibrate  itself 
to address the current global agenda. Without reform, 
it  will  be  doomed  to  ad  hoc  reactions,  inertia  and 
reduced effectiveness. If we share a common and strong 
commitment to multilateralism, we simply cannot avoid 
reform. Armenia therefore reiterates its full support to 
the Secretary-General’s reform agenda. We understand 
that  it  is  a  work  in  progress,  and  we  also  accept  that 
while the Secretary-General enjoys a mandate from the 
membership to ensure that the United Nations system’s 
capacity  is  strong  and  action-oriented,  it  is  he  who  is 
responsible for taking action to adapt the system.
in 
We  greatly  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s 
full  engagement  with  Member  States  in  sharing  and 
testing  his  concept  of  reform.  The  past  few  months 
have demonstrated the Secretariat’s serious intellectual 
and  analytical  engagement  and  the  leadership  of 
the  Secretary-General 
introducing  a  holistic 
reform  agenda  with  three  fundamental  constituent 
parts  —  reform  of  the  United  Nations  development 
system,  management  reform  and  reform  of  the  peace 
and  security  architecture.  We  are  looking  forward  to 
the next phases of the reform agenda’s implementation.
Armenia  particularly  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s doctrine whereby prevention is placed at the 
heart  of  United  Nations  action.  We  have  consistently 
promoted  that  concept,  with  particular  emphasis  on 
early  prevention  and  action.  We  therefore  welcome  a 
holistic  approach  to  prevention  in  all  its  complexity. 
If  early  prevention  is  accepted  as  the  most  effective 
method  of  interrupting  deteriorating  situations,  a 
rights-based approach should carry particular weight.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-30665 (E)
*1730665*
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
the 
report 
rightly 
While 
emphasizes 
the 
complementary  nature  of  prevention  and  sustainable 
and  inclusive  development  and  recognizes  the  2030 
Agenda  as  the  primary  architecture  for  that,  the 
reinforced  emphasis  on  promoting  and  protecting  all 
human  rights,  strengthening  national  institutions  to 
that  end  and  reinforcing  international  cooperation  to 
promote the human rights agenda is still significant. We 
welcome the report’s recognition of that premise. As it 
stresses, peace is indeed a human rights imperative.
Only  strong  States  are  capable  of  delivering 
effectively  on  this  agenda  in  order  to  secure  early 
prevention. Strong States are inclusive States, in which 
a  strong  civil  society,  an  open  media  and  a  vibrant 
private sector all participate in advancing the national 
agenda.  Early  prevention  depends  on  detecting, 
recognizing  and  acting  on  deteriorating  human  rights 
situations,  and  it  remains  the  primary  responsibility 
of  States.  That  responsibility  should  be  driven  by  a 
deep  recognition  of  the  risks  of  permitting  the  social 
fabric  to  be  undermined,  exposing  vulnerable  groups 
to serious human rights violations and amplifying the 
likelihood of atrocities.
The irresponsibility of inflammatory hate speech, 
intolerance, xenophobia, racial and ethnic profiling and 
the glorification of hate crimes, especially when such 
behaviour is led and encouraged by a State’s political 
leaders, should be of concern to the entire international 
community  and  serve  as  a  clear  early-warning  sign 
of  potential  conflict  and  atrocity  crimes.  The  United 
Nations has the capacity to detect such early-warning 
signs and address them.
For its part, Armenia will continue working to help 
consolidate  international  efforts  to  prevent  genocide. 
The year 2018 marks the seventieth anniversary of the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime  of  Genocide.  While  about  one  third  of  United 
Nations  Member  States  have  still  not  acceded  to  or 
ratified  the  Convention,  Armenia  proposes  to  use  the 
occasion of its seventieth anniversary to launch a resolute 
United Nations-wide campaign for raising awareness of 
the  Convention  and  the  need  for  its  universalization. 
The 
International  Day  of  Commemoration  and 
Dignity of the Victims of the Crime of Genocide and 
of  the  Prevention  of  this  Crime,  which  we  mark  on 
9 December, will be a fitting occasion for setting that 
campaign in motion.
While  we  emphasize  the  primary  role  of  States 
in  advancing  the  prevention  agenda,  in  restating  our 
commitment  to  multilateralism,  we  recognize  the 
significant  potential  of 
international  cooperation, 
backed  by  sufficient  financing,  to  achieve  collective 
good  at  the  regional  and  international  levels.  The 
Secretary-General’s  stated  objective  of  making  the 
United  Nations  a  better  partner  for  Member  States  in 
their efforts to meet their responsibilities, and the fact 
that he has placed it at the heart of his reform agenda, is 
highly commendable.
In Armenia, we are gradually reaping the benefits 
of  working  with  the  United  Nations  and  its  country 
team  in  advancing  our  national  development  agenda, 
making full use of the 2030 Agenda as an international 
policy  framework.  Together  with  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  we  have  been  setting  up  a 
national platform to support accelerated implementation 
of the Sustainable Development Goals, promote public-
sector innovation and leverage private capital through 
impact  investment.  Armenia  emphasizes  the  strong 
effects of innovation, creative education and inclusive 
and  collaborative  joint  action  by  the  Government, 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector  in  advancing 
smart development.
emphasizes 
Although  middle-income  countries  will  continue 
to  require  the  attention  of  international  financial 
institutions  and 
the  United  Nations  development 
system, regional and international partnerships remain 
as  important  as  ever.  As  a  landlocked  developing 
country,  Armenia  particularly 
the 
importance  of  accessible  and  unimpeded  transport 
and transit corridors, and deplores unilateral coercive 
measures  and  the  imposition  of  blockades  and  closed 
borders that worsen existing infrastructure deficits. We 
are  looking  forward  to  presenting  our  first  voluntary 
national  review  at  the  meeting  of  the  High-level 
Political Forum on Sustainable Development to be held 
under the auspices of the Economic and Social Council 
in  2018,  and  are  happy  to  share  our  experience  with 
our partners.
With  regard  to  its  peace  and  security  pillar,  the 
Organization  continues  to  face  the  considerable  and 
multifaceted challenges of unresolved conflicts, global 
terrorism and other vulnerable situations. Displacement 
and migration remain an important focus of our collective 
agenda, including from the peace and security angle. In 
the past four years alone, Armenia has become a host 
to more than 22,000 displaced people from the Middle 
2/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
East.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  concept 
of  building  anticipatory  relationships  with  national 
and  regional  partners  in  order  to  prevent  conflict,  as 
well  as  addressing  the  root  causes  of  conflict  across 
the  three  pillars  of  peace  and  security,  human  rights 
and inclusive development. The evolving proposal for 
recalibrating the peacebuilding function of the United 
Nations  within  the  peace  and  security  architecture 
deserves  close  attention.  Once  again,  we  commend 
the  focus  on  prevention  in  supporting  an  integrated, 
strategic and coherent approach to sustaining peace.
the 
We  also  underline 
importance  of  strong 
collaboration  with  regional  settings,  platforms  and 
formats for sustaining peace and resolving conflicts and 
preventing duplication of effort, which has the effect of 
blurring the focus on sustainable, peacefully negotiated 
and  compromise-based  solutions,  encouraging  forum-
shopping  and  undermining  the  efforts  of  parties  in 
internationally mandated formats. In that respect, we are 
very grateful to the Secretary-General for his continued 
commitment and unequivocal support to the co-Chairs 
of  the  Minsk  Group  of  the  Organization  for  Security 
and Cooperation in Europe in their efforts to achieve a 
peaceful resolution of the Nagorno Karabakh conflict.
The  Secretary-General  concludes  his  report  with 
the  significant  observation  that  the  onus  is  on  the 
United Nations to prove its worth. It is a call to heed 
the  contradictory  and  complex  challenges  of  our 
current  agenda  and  to  recall  the  foundations  of  the 
United  Nations  as  it  was  born  out  of  the  destruction 
and calamity of the twentieth century’s two devastating 
world wars. It is an invitation to reflect on our collective 
conscience, as the United Nations does not consist only 
of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Secretariat.  As  of 
today, it is constituted by 193 sovereign States sharing 
responsibility for the peoples in whose name, after all, 
the Charter of the United Nations was written.
(Cuba) 
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Abascal 
in 
Spanish): We thank you, Mr. President, for presenting 
the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization  (A/72/1)  and  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  work  you  have  done  in  this  first 
month of your mandate.
(spoke 
The  United  Nations  is  becoming  more  and  more 
relevant  to  the  people  of  the  world  every  day.  Our 
multilateral institution represents the hope of millions 
for  a  better  world,  where  peace,  goodwill  and  the 
yearning for a better world prevail over war, threats and 
fear of the disappearance of the human species. That is 
where we see the Organization’s relevance and where the 
importance of multilateralism is affirmed once again. 
As  the  Secretary-General  rightly  says,  multilateral 
action is more necessary than ever if we want to find 
effective solutions to today’s converging challenges.
Although we have major commitments that provide 
a road map for achieving sustainable development, such 
as the 2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change,  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, there 
are  continuing  challenges  to  their  implementation  at 
both  the  national  and  international  levels.  According 
to  data  from  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization, 
about 108 million people globally suffered from severe 
food  insecurity  in  2016,  a  drastic  increase  compared 
to the figure of 80 million in 2015. In addition, some 
700  million  people  continue  to  live  in  extremely 
difficult  conditions.  The  impact  of  climate  change  as 
reflected in recurring natural disasters, as well as in the 
virtual destruction of infrastructure in many developing 
countries,  has  led  to  the  loss  of  many  lives.  We  are 
concerned about the fact that developing countries lack 
the new, additional and predictable financial resources 
and  the  infrastructure  and  technology  they  need  in 
order to implement these agendas at the national level.
The  Cuban  people  have  much  to  be  proud  of  in 
terms  of  our  achievements  over  the  past  six  decades. 
To cite just a few examples, we were the first country 
to  end 
in  Latin  America.  The  World 
Health  Organization  recently  certified  Cuba  as  the 
first  country  on  Earth  to  eliminate  mother-to-child 
transmission of HIV/AIDS and syphilis, and UNICEF 
has declared Cuba free of child malnutrition. All of this 
is  the  result  of  the  high  quality  of  our  renowned  free 
health and education systems, whose main concern is 
the right to life and the well-being of the Cuban people. 
Our revolution is of the people, by the people and for 
the people.
illiteracy 
We  are  proud  to  belong  to  a  zone  of  peace,  as 
announced at the second Summit of the Community of 
Latin American and Caribbean States, held in Havana 
in  January  2014.  Cuba  emphasizes  that  the  rules  of 
coexistence,  based  on  friendship,  cooperation  and 
respect, without interference in the internal affairs of 
other  nations,  are  essential  in  international  relations 
among States.
17-30665
3/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
We reiterate that the best way to prevent conflict is 
to eradicate its root causes. In that regard, Cuba urges 
the  international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts 
to  eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and  dimensions, 
including  inequality,  hunger  and  social  exclusion.  We 
affirm  that  unwavering  respect  for  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international  law  must  continue  to  be  a  basic  pillar 
of  international  security.  That  means  ensuring  full 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
States, refraining from the use or threat of use of force 
in international relations and from interference in the 
internal  affairs  of  States,  as  well  as  working  to  settle 
international disputes by peaceful means.
If  we  want  to  change  the  current  unjust  and 
profoundly  unequal 
international  order,  we  must 
stop  applying  unilateral  coercive  measures  aimed  at 
developing  countries  and  put  an  end  to  colonialism 
and  foreign  occupation.  We  reaffirm  that  respect  for 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  systems  that 
nations have freely chosen for themselves promotes not 
only sustainable development but also the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  Cuba  firmly 
denounces and rejects the unjust economic, trade and 
financial  embargo  that  the  United  States  of  America 
has  imposed  on  it  for  more  than  50  years.  Backed  by 
more than 11 million Cubans and with the support of 
the international community, we call once again for the 
lifting  of  this  cruel  blockade,  which  is  a  violation  of 
international law and of the human rights of all Cubans, 
whom it has deprived of their full enjoyment of the right 
to development.
We have taken note of the efforts of the Secretary-
General aimed at reforming the Organization. In order 
for  the  United  Nations  to  be  more  democratic  and 
effective, the General Assembly should be revitalized 
and strengthened and able to fully exercise the powers 
conferred  on  it  by  the  Charter,  without  interference 
from  the  Security  Council  in  its  work  or  its  entities. 
Reforming the Security Council with a view to making 
it more democratic and representative requires changing 
its composition and working methods, and we must not 
postpone that any longer.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  to  you, 
Mr.  President,  and  to  the  Secretary-General,  Cuba’s 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  to  safeguarding 
a  prosperous  and  peaceful  world  for  present  and 
future generations.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Colombia  is  grateful  for  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General (A/72/1), which lays out a valuable road map 
for  the  reforms  that  he  has  proposed  and  takes  us  on 
a  geopolitical  and  strategic  journey  through  the  true 
role  of  multilateralism,  led  by  the  United  Nations,  at 
one of the most critical times that the world has seen 
since our Organization was founded, 72 years ago. The 
notion that we need a more analytical document rather 
than  a  summary  of  activities  has  been  apparent  for 
many years. We firmly believe that in October 2018, a 
year from now, when we meet once again in this Hall 
to  analyse  what  this  document  has  achieved,  we  will 
not just be describing the past and sometimes repeating 
sterile diagnoses but seeing the results of an ambitious 
and  inclusive  process  of  change,  which  Colombia 
fully supports.
A  stronger,  more  effective  multilateralism  will 
enable  the  United  Nations  to  achieve  ambitious  goals 
in the areas of peace, development and human rights. I 
can say with certainty that we have specific examples 
that  have  shown  that  it  is  possible  to  approach  this 
task  with  optimism,  despite  the  difficulties.  Various 
Member  States  are  seeing  a  greater  good  reflected 
in  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, the Forum on Financing for Development 
and the Paris Climate Change Agreement, and are now 
signing up to the New York Declaration for Refugees 
and  Migrants  and  the  Ocean  Conference’s  voluntary 
commitments. That is cause for optimism. We are seeing 
evidence that when there is a high level of involvement 
and political will on the part of States and when they 
consistently  and  persistently  work  towards  a  win-win 
situation in our Organization, it is possible to establish 
an  architecture  that  benefits  humankind.  Once  again, 
I want to emphasize the indisputable relevance of the 
United Nations for addressing today’s challenges.
Right  now,  if  we  are  to  achieve  that  win-win 
scenario in the area of international peace and security, 
we  must  be  bold,  as  is  evidenced  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General and in his vision for the future. As 
the Secretary-General says and has reiterated in recent 
months, in its approach to attaining sustainable peace 
the Organization should focus its efforts on prevention 
and on reacting more quickly in order to get results that 
can have the real impact that we all seek on the ground. 
As the report says, we must make our institution agile 
and able to deliver results.
4/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
I  would  like  to  mention  two  things  that  are 
particularly important to my delegation. The initiative 
for achieving gender parity at the senior management 
level  by  2021,  clearly  outlined  by  the  Secretary-
General, brings us closer to a goal that has eluded us 
for decades. Through that proposal, we now believe it 
is possible. We should also give due recognition to the 
cross-cutting nature of the gender perspective in areas 
such  as  sustainable  peace.  In  the  case  of  my  country 
and its journey towards peace, the United Nations has 
played a major role in it through the first special political 
mission of the Security Council to Colombia, which is 
ending this week, giving way to a new phase through a 
second, verification mission. In addition to that is all of 
the support we have been shown, which in the next few 
hours  will  culminate  in  a  bilateral  ceasefire  with  the 
National Liberation Army, a proof of the commitment 
to accompanying us on that journey.
That is why we can say, based on the lessons we have 
learned, that the proposal for a structural transformation 
of  the  Secretariat  is  essential  and  will  lead  to  results 
that will literally be seen on the ground on a daily basis, 
aimed  at  achieving  the  principal  goal  of  the  United 
Nations, which is helping the men, women and children 
in every part of the world afflicted by conflict or war. 
We are of the firm belief that we can do this through 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding operations and special 
political  missions  that  address  our  pressing  political, 
military and humanitarian challenges. A dysfunctional 
bureaucracy should no longer be an obstacle. In order to 
achieve those goals and overcome the other challenges 
that  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report,  it  will  not 
be  enough  simply  to  make  those  proposals.  A  firm 
political commitment from all of us, the Member States, 
is crucial. The ground has already been prepared with 
important contributions. The time for diagnoses is over. 
We must move on to action, without delay, because that 
could  mean  the  difference  between  life  or  death  and 
peace or war.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/72/1), which we note is his first since 
assuming office.
My delegation welcomes the report, which not only 
provides a sobering reminder of the multiple challenges 
facing  the  United  Nations  but  also  highlights  the 
important  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  addressing 
them.  There  are  many  crises  yet  to  be  resolved,  but 
the  world  would  be  worse  off  if  it  were  not  for  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations.  As  we  heard  from  many 
leaders over the past week during the general debate, 
today  we  need  the  United  Nations  more  than  ever.  A 
universal, rule-based multilateral system is essential if 
we are to solve the complex problems confronting the 
world. No nation can deal with transboundary problems 
alone. The United Nations has a critical role to play as 
a  platform  for  cooperation  based  on  the  principles  of 
mutual respect, mutual benefit and international law.
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the  figures  and 
diagrams are a welcome addition to this year’s report. 
They  are  very  useful  and  contribute  significantly  to 
highlighting the progress achieved over the past year. 
For  example,  the  improvement  in  the  percentage  of 
women who are heads or deputy heads of missions is 
clearly depicted in figure IX, along with the significant 
distance still to go before gender parity is achieved. We 
also greatly appreciate the summary of the Secretary-
General’s  key  initiatives  in  2017  that  appears  right 
after  the  introduction  in  the  report.  This  list  clearly 
demonstrates  that  Secretary-General  Guterres  has 
set  about  tackling  our  multiple  challenges  head-on 
immediately after taking office, taking steps to make 
the  United  Nations  fit  for  purpose  and  outlining  a 
clear vision for how the United Nations can do better. 
We  look  forward  to  further  updates  on  initiatives 
introduced in 2017. We would now like to make three 
points pertaining to the report.
support 
First,  we 
the  Secretary-General’s 
commitment to reforming the United Nations in order 
to  make  it  more  effective,  nimble  and  accountable, 
with  a  view  to  improving  its  delivery  of  its  mandate 
and  making  a  real  impact  on  people  on  the  ground. 
We particularly welcome his drive to make the United 
Nations  more  transparent  and  accountable  to  the 
membership. We share his view that the Organization 
must become more transparent and able to demonstrate 
a clear link between resources and results much more 
visibly  and  meaningfully.  In  that  regard,  we  see  the 
Secretary-General’s  annual  report  as  an  important 
mechanism  for  transparency  and  accountability.  We 
would therefore like to see it further improved to focus 
on results, and specifically on what the United Nations 
is doing to make a difference to people on the ground. 
It would help if the report also included an annex with a 
one-page outline of some of the key statistics and figures 
showing how the United Nations had made a positive 
17-30665
5/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
impact  globally  over  the  past  year  that  could  then  be 
used to profile the work of the Organization positively.
Secondly, just as the report begins with a snapshot 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  main  initiatives,  we  would 
suggest  that  it  conclude  with  a  concise  list  of  his 
priorities  and  objectives  for  the  upcoming  year.  Of 
course,  we  understand  that  those  may  change  during 
the  year  with  the  vagaries  of  international  crises  and 
developments.  However,  a  list  of  priorities  would 
enable  Member  States  to  better  understand  the  key 
platforms  in  the  Secretary-General’s  agenda  for  the 
year and, more importantly, objectively assess progress 
on them throughout the year. For example, we welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  commitment 
to  achieving 
gender  parity  at  the  senior  leadership  level  by  2021, 
which is listed as one of his main initiatives for 2017. 
A  commitment  that  explicit  not  only  communicates 
the Secretary-General’s priorities and goals in a clear 
and  measurable  way,  it  also  reflects  a  willingness  on 
his  part  to  be  accountable  to  Member  States  for  his 
actions and priorities and for achieving what he wishes 
to achieve. It shows that he is willing to lead from the 
top in transforming the Organization so that it is more 
focused on delivery and results than on mere process.
importance 
to 
attach  great 
Thirdly  and  lastly,  it  is  evident  throughout  the 
report  that  the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-
General 
effective 
partnerships between the United Nations and regional 
and  subregional  organizations,  which  often  have  a 
valuable  understanding  of  the  particular  contexts  and 
circumstances  of  individual  regions.  In  South-East 
Asia,  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  plays  a  critical  role  in  securing  regional 
peace and fostering regional economic integration. We 
are  pleased  that  the  United  Nations  concluded  a  new 
plan  of  action  with  ASEAN  in  2016.  The  partnership 
must  be  strengthened,  and  we  look  forward  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  visit  to  Manila  in  November  for 
the upcoming ASEAN Summit.
For its part, as the incoming ASEAN Chair for 2018, 
Singapore  looks  forward  to  working  with  the  United 
Nations and the Secretary-General to explore new ways 
to enhance the partnership with ASEAN. In that regard, 
it  is  our  hope  that  next  year  the  Secretary-General’s 
annual report will devote greater attention to the issues 
and highlight the partnerships that the United Nations 
has with various regional organizations throughout the 
world.  Ultimately,  it  is  important  that  the  Secretary-
General and the United Nations lay out a clear plan and 
pathway  for  building  partnerships  with  regional  and 
subregional organizations around the world with a view 
to addressing the key global challenges of our time.
In conclusion, Singapore strongly supports the work 
of  the  United  Nations,  which  has  made  a  significant 
difference  to  the  lives  of  people  around  the  world. 
We  need  to  safeguard  and  strengthen  our  multilateral 
rule-based  system  so  that  even  the  smallest  country 
can  survive  and  thrive  as  an  independent,  sovereign 
nation. In that regard, the work of the United Nations, 
particularly  the  work  of  the  Secretary-General,  is 
absolutely  critical.  Singapore  reiterates  its  support 
for  the  Secretary-General,  and  we  look  forward  to 
continuing to work constructively with him so that as 
the  United  Nations  we  can  collectively  build  a  better 
future for all our people.
Mr.  Rybakov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  We 
have read the report of the Secretary-General (A/72/1) 
on the work of the Organization with interest.
The  United  Nations  is  clearly  faced  with  the 
difficult choice of staying within its customary limits 
and conducting business as usual or of moving forward, 
while  listening  to  the  voice  of  each  individual  State 
and  taking  account  of  their  specific  needs.  In  that 
context we support the Secretary-General’s view on the 
crucial  importance  of  revitalizing  the  commitment  to 
the  principle  of  multilateralism,  which  enables  States 
to  combine  their  resources  so  as  to  overcome  the 
challenges and threats of today. Belarus has frequently 
noted  that  many  conflict  situations  could  be  avoided 
if the United Nations were truly committed to a spirit 
of unity.
Working for political mediation at the early stages 
of  a  confrontation  is  unquestionably  an  effective  part 
of  the  ways  by  which  we  can  maintain  international 
peace  and  security.  In  that  regard,  we  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General’s  approach  in  terms  of  its  focus 
on  preventive  action  aimed  at  avoiding  conflicts. 
Peacebuilding  should  not  be  perceived  as  solely 
intended for post-conflict situations. At the same time, 
we  understand  that  new  times  bring  new  challenges 
and threats. In that regard, we believe the initiative of 
the President of the Republic of Belarus in launching a 
new Helsinki process is timely and has the potential to 
become  a  platform  for  dialogue  aimed  at  overcoming 
differences among States all over the world.
Naturally,  in  summing  up  the  past  year,  we  have 
noted  the  Secretary-General’s  active  efforts  aimed  at 
6/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
reorganizing the United Nations. While in that regard 
we  have  confidence  in  the  Secretary-General  as  an 
experienced  international  official,  we  do  not  believe 
that reform should be carried out without the broadest 
possible participation of Member States. Consultations 
must  include  all  States,  not  just  donor  countries, 
because  we  firmly  believe  that  new  methods  of  work 
in the United Nations are especially important to States 
receiving assistance. It is only through joint efforts that 
we will be able to realize our goals most effectively and 
in a manner acceptable to all.
In any restructuring of the Organization, we should 
be  careful  not  to  eliminate  positive  aspects  of  the 
system that have been shown to be effective in practice. 
We  also  believe  it  is  extremely  important  to  avoid 
saddling Member States with additional financial and 
bureaucratic burdens, and to ensure that United Nations 
agencies  are  well  coordinated  and  run  smoothly  on 
the  ground,  while  fully  respecting  the  principle  that 
United Nations activities should respond to the national 
priorities of Member States.
We  welcome 
increasing 
Initiatives  aimed  at 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts 
to  revitalize  the  Secretariat’s  peace  and  security 
architecture. 
the 
potential  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces 
and  adapting  their  configurations  as  well  as  possible 
to  current  circumstances  deserve  broad  support.  In 
the  context  of  improving  peacekeeping,  however,  it 
is  important  to  ensure  that  the  process  of  technical 
reform  does  not  become  an  end  in  itself,  that  we  do 
not  get  bogged  down  in  bureaucratic  rearrangements 
and  that  we  avoid  arbitrarily  expanding  or  shrinking 
the mandates and functions of the key United Nations 
bodies.  Our  joint  and,  most  importantly,  coordinated 
efforts should result in maintaining peace and security 
in vulnerable regions.
Where United Nations peacekeeping missions are 
concerned,  the  gender  perspective  plays  an  important 
role  in  improving  the  current  peace  and  security 
architecture.  In  that  regard,  the  Secretary-General’s 
initiative to enhance the role of women in peacekeeping 
deserves  the  high  praise.  The  Republic  of  Belarus  is 
no  stranger  to  that  concept.  The  Belarusian  military 
experts deployed to the United Nations Interim Force 
in  Lebanon  and  successfully  carrying  out  their  tasks 
there include women.
We  concur  with 
that, 
although  progress  on  development  indicators  is  being 
the  Secretary-General 
made, there remain threats that could undermine global 
stability.  That  is  a  very  immediate  problem,  and  we 
believe that the United Nations should therefore take a 
more individual approach to solving specific problems, 
taking  into  account  the  unique  characteristics  and 
peculiarities of every country.
In our view, it is high time that the United Nations 
recognized 
the  middle-income  countries,  which 
have still not been factored into the systemic activity 
of  our  Organization  and  for  which  there  is  still  no 
coordinated  assistance  mechanism.  We  are  talking 
about  more  than  100  countries,  which  are  home  to  a 
majority  of  the  world’s  population.  They  account 
for  a  third  of  the  world’s  gross  domestic  product 
and  a  quarter  of  its  exports  and  imports.  Moreover, 
73  per  cent  of  all  the  people  living  in  poverty  are  in 
middle-income countries. We hope that the Secretariat 
will  help  by  formulating  and  adopting  a  strategy  to 
help  middle-income  countries  achieve  sustainable 
development,  based  on  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and  on  instruments  analogous  to  those  devised 
for other categories of developing countries. If we do 
not  take  the  interests  of  this  category  of  country  into 
account  we  will  never  succeed  in  implementing  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We  would  also  like  to  look  at  various  current 
processes  within  the  United  Nations  that  have  to 
do  with  routine  interactions  between  States  and  the 
Secretariat.  States  need  a  clear  and  open  framework 
for  such  interaction  if  they  are  to  accomplish  their 
tasks successfully. Unfortunately, the bureaucratic red 
tape  in  the  Secretariat  shows  no  sign  of  diminishing. 
We  continue  to  see  that  the  Secretariat  is  simply  not 
listening to States’ requests that it simplify the processes 
intended  to  serve  them.  The  unilateral  introduction 
of  new  rules  to  do  with  the  technical  aspects  of  the 
Secretariat  often  seriously  complicates  the  practical 
daily work of States at Headquarters and compels them 
to focus on technical and logistical issues rather than on 
addressing substantive issues.
The process for organizing events for States at the 
United  Nations  remains  cumbersome,  and  for  some 
reason we still have to pay for it. The Secretariat’s desire 
to  divest  itself  of  its  direct  administrative  functions 
has forced Member States to establish a mechanism to 
improve the interaction between the Secretariat and the 
Permanent Missions of Member States. The enormous 
attention  paid  to  this  mechanism  during  the  previous 
session emphasized how increasingly urgent it is that we 
17-30665
7/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
rid ourselves of the backlog of these problems, whose 
resolution frequently depends solely on the Secretariat’s 
willingness  to  react  quickly  to  constructive  criticism 
and suggestions from the Missions.
We  would  also  like  to  discuss  the  format  for 
considering agenda items, specifically item 110, which 
we  are  currently  considering,  on  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization. 
Today, as in past years, only Member States participate 
in the debate. For some reason, the Secretary-General 
presented  his  report  under  agenda  item  8,  which  is 
the  general  debate.  In  our  view,  that  is  quite  wrong. 
Moreover, agenda item 8 has its own theme, which the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  decides  on  every 
year. We believe that the Secretary-General should also 
adhere strictly to that theme, but he should present his 
report  under  the  appropriate  agenda  item.  Some  here 
may  say  that  these  are  details  and  this  is  a  practice 
that has evolved over the years, but it is precisely such 
practices,  where  things  are  winked  at  and  there  is  an 
unwillingness  to  follow  our  own  rules,  that  can  lead 
first  to  indifference,  then  to  misunderstandings  and 
eventually even to conflicts, which all of us would like 
to avoid.
We  should  not  forget  that,  first  and  foremost,  the 
United Nations is us — the States. We should not speak 
of it as if it were some artificial organism with a life of 
its own. Only when we fully identify with the United 
Nations  and  feel  that  it  belongs  equally  to  all  States, 
with no exceptions, will we begin to talk and listen to 
one another, and to agree with one another instead of 
trading verbiage and blame. Only then will we succeed 
in  ridding  ourselves  of  the  criticism  that  the  United 
Nations is unable to respond adequately to challenges 
and threats, and make the Organization truly useful and 
essential for all who need it.
Mr.  Matjila  (South  Africa):  I  would  first  like  to 
convey  our  heartfelt  condolences  to  those  affected 
by the massacre in Las Vegas this past weekend. Our 
thoughts and prayers go to the families of the victims, 
and we wish those who were injured a speedy recovery.
At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  first  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/72/1).  It  reflects  his  clear  vision  and 
firm  determination  to  enhance  multilateralism  and 
strengthen the authority and role of the United Nations. 
This is indeed an Organization like no other. We agree 
with  the  Secretary-General  that  the  world  we  live  in 
presents  a  mixed  picture  of  progress,  challenges  and 
opportunities. The United Nations has a unique role and 
responsibility to assist and empower all Member States 
and regional organizations to achieve the global goals 
that we have collectively identified and included in the 
Charter of the United Nations, the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights and the landmark agreements of 2015 
on climate change and sustainable development.
The  triple  challenges  of  poverty,  unemployment 
and  inequality  are  not  unique  to  South  Africa.  They 
are  present  across  all  regions  of  the  world  and  can 
be  seen  even  between  States.  We  need  to  be  creative 
in  finding  ways  to  establish  a  more  equal  and  just 
socioeconomic world order to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  As  President  Zuma  noted  during 
the general debate,
to  deepen 
the  divide  between 
“The  current  structure  of  the  global  economy 
continues 
the 
global North and global South ... Even within the 
developed  countries,  the  gap  between  rich  and 
poor remains wide and is of serious concern” (see 
A/72/PV.9, p. 15).
South  Africa  is  committed  to  working  with  the 
United  Nations  to  ensure  that  our  efforts  can  put  the 
world on a trajectory that will enable us to attain the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  eradicate  poverty, 
combat  discrimination  and  uphold  equality  for  all. 
“Leaving no one behind” should not become an often-
repeated but meaningless phrase, for it is a call to action. 
In that regard, we note that the implementation phase of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development has seen 
a drop in the means of implementation for supporting 
developing  countries  and  a  decline 
in  financial 
contributions to the relevant multilateral bodies dealing 
with development and environmental issues. There has 
also  been  a  concerted  attempt  to  shift  the  burden  of 
development  assistance  away  from  the  commitments 
made by developed countries. South Africa counts on 
the leadership and good offices of the Secretary-General 
to mobilize adequate financial support, and thanks him 
for his commitment to maintaining a relentless focus on 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
South  Africa  is  continuing  its  commitment  to 
ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  and 
their  promotion,  protection  and 
fulfilment. South Africa’s commitment to human rights 
and to the promotion of human dignity and equality is 
unwavering, and respect for human rights has been the 
8/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
defining  feature  of  its  political  history.  In  his  report, 
the Secretary-General notes that human rights are
“investments which bring both immediate and long-
term  benefits  in  building  resilience,  redressing 
grievance,  reducing 
inequality  and  advancing 
sustainable development” (A/72/1, para. 92).
South  Africa  emphasizes 
importance  of 
the  global 
realization  of  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights  and  remains  committed  to  helping  the 
Organization to make concrete and tangible progress in 
that regard, including by drafting a convention, within 
the human rights family of instruments, on the right to 
development. That should be the case for all kinds of 
rights, including the right to self-determination.
the 
South Africa deplores the ongoing denial of the right 
to  self-determination  for  the  peoples  of  Palestine  and 
Western Sahara, which is a matter of serious concern to 
the people of South Africa. Those issues have become 
even more critical, given the current global instability 
and the increased number of conflicts. We are grappling 
with a multiplicity of new threats to the maintenance of 
international peace and security.
capacities, 
conflict-prevention 
South Africa has long been an unwavering advocate 
for  a  more  deliberate  and  focused  use  of  United 
Nations 
including 
early  engagement  with  parties  in  disputes  that  could 
potentially  become  violent.  In  addition,  the  United 
Nations should not lose focus once initial stability has 
been achieved, and should continue to work in support 
of finding lasting political solutions. Too often we see 
a relapse into conflict after initial peace processes have 
been  implemented.  With  that  in  mind,  South  Africa 
fully  supports  the  vision  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
establish, as he says, a culture of prevention within the 
Organization, including by identifying and addressing 
the  root  causes  of  conflict.  That  is  a  process  that 
requires  coordination  across  the  three  pillars  of  the 
United Nations: peace and security, human rights and 
inclusive development.
South  Africa  remains  convinced  that  peace  and 
stability in the world will remain elusive if we do not 
address the nexus between security and development. 
We  look  forward  to  the  joint  United  Nations-World 
Bank flagship study on how development and political 
processes  interact  for  the  prevention  of  violence.  We 
support a United Nations that is agile and able to deliver 
results  in  complex  environments.  We  look  forward  to 
the  forthcoming  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
regional  organizations, 
sustaining peace and holistic approaches to the peace 
spectrum. Sustainable peace requires not just changes 
to the structures and mindset of the Organization but 
also  sustainable  and  predictable  financing  for  all  the 
Organization’s mechanisms across the peace spectrum.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s prioritization 
of  partnerships  with 
in 
particular  the  Framework  for  a  Renewed  United 
Nations-African  Union  Partnership  on  Africa’s 
Integration  and  Development  Agenda  2017-2027.  We 
welcome  the  continued  support  for  the  efforts  of  the 
African  Union  to  resolve  conflicts  on  our  continent 
through the promotion of African solutions to African 
problems.  South  Africa  will  also  look  favourably  on 
the proposals for sustainable, predictable and flexible 
financing for African Union peace-support operations, 
based on an understanding of the comparative advantage 
of African Union missions and the added value to the 
United  Nations.  We  remain  concerned  that  arbitrary 
cuts to the peacekeeping budget will limit the ability of 
the Organization to respond to the multitude of global 
peace and security threats and the ability of our troops 
to deliver on their mandate.
We welcome the Secretary-General’s commitment 
to a universally desired goal of a nuclear-weapon-free 
world.  South  Africa  is  pleased  that  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  has  been  signed  by 
more than 50 Member States, and we call on all Member 
States to join the momentum to prohibit all weapons of 
mass destruction. As President Zuma declared during 
the general debate, “there are no safe hands for weapons 
of mass destruction” (A/72/PV.9, p. 16).
South Africa believes that the United Nations needs 
to be effective, efficient, transparent, accountable and 
people-centred. In that regard, we have welcomed the 
inclusive  and  consultative  processes  led  personally 
by  the  Secretary-General,  such  as  the  establishment 
of  the  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  earlier  in  the 
year.  Meaningful  reform  of  the  Secretariat  requires 
ownership on the part of the entire membership of the 
Organization. Gender parity and greater geographical 
balance at all levels of the Secretariat are goals that we 
should already have achieved after 72 years. We look 
forward  to  constructive  engagement  on  the  proposals 
in the relevant committees. However, the reform of the 
Organization remains incomplete as long as the entire 
continent of Africa is excluded from its most powerful 
principal organ.
17-30665
9/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
In conclusion, South Africa shares the view of the 
Secretary-General that
“Multilateralism  is  not  optional.  It  is  the  most 
effective  vehicle,  whether  regional  or  global,  for 
achieving the goals of peace, inclusive sustainable 
development  and  human  rights  for  all.”  (A/72/1, 
para. 14)
We  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Secretariat for their services to the Organization, and 
look forward to working with the Secretary-General and 
all  Member  States  to  build  a  stronger,  more  effective 
and equitable United Nations that will deliver for all the 
peoples of the world.
Mr.  Nebenzia 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  express  my  delegation’s  profound  and 
sincere condolences to the people of the United States 
in the aftermath of the monstrous tragedy that recently 
occurred in Las Vegas.
(Russian  Federation) 
We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  informative  report  (A/72/1).  It  is 
important  that  it  focuses  not  only  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization over the past year, but also on the tasks 
that it will face in the future. We share the document’s 
key  thought,  namely,  that  the  development  of  the 
international situation in the period under review was 
characterized  by  contradictory  trends.  In  particular, 
the  continuing  transition  to  a  multipolar  world  order 
has  been  accompanied  by  an  increasing  potential  for 
conflicts,  the  growing  threat  of  terrorism,  deepening 
lines  of  division  and  powerful  migration  flows.  A 
similar  picture  has  been  observed  in  the  area  of 
development.  While  progress  has  been  made  with 
a  number  of  economic  indicators,  the  problems  of 
poverty  and  inequality  are  becoming  more  acute,  the 
technology gap persists, climate change continues and 
unemployment among young people is on the rise.
Our global Organization has therefore been forced 
to  take  action  under  difficult  conditions,  constantly 
keeping  its  finger  on  the  pulse  of  the  evolving 
international  situation  and  closely  following  and 
promptly  responding  to  key  changes.  The  Secretariat 
and  the  Secretary-General  have  provided  essential 
support for Member States in that regard, and we thank 
them for their efforts.
We understand the need to adapt the United Nations 
to changing conditions and new realities. Its reform is 
an  ongoing  process.  New  institutions  and  structures 
are  being  established,  the  agenda  is  expanding  and 
peacekeeping  is  becoming  more  multifaceted.  At  the 
same  time,  some  assessments  of  what  has  happened 
in  that  regard  and  certain  proposals  with  regard  to 
ways  to  move  the  process  forward  that  are  presented 
in  the  report  are  not  entirely  clear.  Let  me  focus  on 
the following points.
On the subject of multipolarity, the report affirms 
that  the  United  Nations  is  the  best  platform  for 
uniting the efforts of Member States and civil society 
to  solve  current  problems.  We  support  the  effort  to 
make  the  Organization  more  transparent.  However, 
we must emphasize that its work is traditionally of an 
intergovernmental nature, and it is Member States that 
have the prerogative to make decisions.
We believe that peacekeeping must not be considered 
in  an  overly  broad  manner  or  interpreted  as  some 
kind  of  new  concept  or  direction  in  the  work  of  the 
United Nations. Member States never have discussed, 
let  alone  agreed  on,  any  action  plan  currently  being 
put  forward  with  regard  to  the  broadly  disseminated 
peacekeeping  agenda.  Identical  resolutions  adopted 
in  2016  by  the  General  Assembly  (70/262)  and  the 
Security  Council  (2282  (2016))  on  the  peacebuilding 
architecture  proposed  a  unique  definition  of  the  term 
“sustaining  peace”.  It  is  inextricably  linked  to  the 
implementation  of  peacebuilding  efforts  and  is  the 
shared task and responsibility of both Governments and 
other stakeholders in national processes.
United  Nations  support  for  conflict  prevention 
activities  can  be  provided  only  in  strict  conformity 
with the Charter of the United Nations, the sovereignty 
of States and the leading role of the Security Council. 
The basic principles of international assistance in that 
regard  are  enshrined  in  Security  Council  resolution 
2171 (2014). At the same time, the chief responsibility 
for  preventing  conflicts  and  for  overcoming  their 
consequences lies with the States themselves.
We believe that early prevention should not be based 
on some combination of certain conflict indicators, as 
that opens up opportunities for arbitrary or overly broad 
interpretations.  There  are  no  universal  or  automatic 
solutions to conflict prevention. Each situation requires 
a sensitive and impartial approach and a patient search 
for  a  unique  solution.  We  must  not  forget  that  many 
conflicts  have  been  triggered  by  foreign  interference 
10/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
in the internal affairs of States, including attempts to 
overthrow regimes that someone disliked.
interrelated 
Peace and security, human rights and development 
are  unquestionably 
to  some  extent. 
However, it is important to have a clear understanding 
of  the  fact  that  development  per  se  cannot  guarantee 
peace  and  security,  nor  can  peace  and  security 
guarantee  sustainable  development.  Although  they 
are related, each United Nations entity must retain its 
identity and functional specialization in order to avoid 
duplication of effort and interference in one another’s 
areas of responsibility.
On  economic  issues,  we  cannot  agree  with  the 
idea that the resolutions of the General Assembly and 
the  Security  Council  must  serve  as  a  framework  for 
helping countries achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). One-dimensional interpretations of the 
climate-change  process  as  a  cause  of  mass  migration 
also raise doubts and do not reflect existing differences 
in the positions of countries on that issue.
The report fails to mention the Economic and Social 
Council  Forum  on  Financing  for  Development,  which 
is  the  central  platform  for  discussing  development 
financing and how to achieve the SDGs. Instead, we are 
being asked to focus on strengthening the Development 
Cooperation Forum, which does not have a mandate to 
develop solutions in the field of financing.
The  Russian  delegation  has  traditionally  been 
committed to the multifaceted topics of justice and the 
rule of law. However, the report presents those topics 
only  as  part  of  human  rights.  Furthermore,  it  states 
that  when  there  is  a  lack  of  access  to  justice,  certain 
segments of society may slip to violence. We consider 
that  to  be  a  one-sided  and  unreasonable  approach. 
Other aspects of the rule of law, for example, the crucial 
international dimension, are not underscored at all. The 
same can be said of the section on drug control.
We are not convinced that the report should have 
paid  so  much  attention  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  a  body  that  is  outside  the  United  Nations 
system. We also do not understand why an illegitimate 
mechanism to investigate crimes in Syria is presented 
as  an  unprecedented  step.  The  General  Assembly 
established the mechanism in violation of the Charter 
of the United Nations and exceeded its own authority in 
doing so. Once again, we call on the Secretary-General 
and Member States to renounce all forms of support for 
that mechanism.
Once again, we express our principled support for 
the  Secretary-General’s  wish  to  improve  the  United 
Nations.  However,  given  the  sensitive  nature  of  any 
changes in that regard, we are convinced that there is 
a need for clear and rational reform plans and that they 
should be strictly coordinated with all Member States. 
In  that  way,  the  call  to  strengthen  multilateralism  in 
international  politics  and  to  increase  the  authority  of 
the Organization can be made a reality.
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  The  report  of 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/72/1) is in many ways an inflection point. It depicts 
the  international  landscape  and  the  United  Nations 
itself in a manner that looks much different compared 
to just a year ago.
though 
The  euphoria  surrounding  the  finalization  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  seems  to  have 
substantially  dissipated,  even 
large-scale 
efforts  are  under  way  in  many  States  to  achieve  the 
objectives  outlined  in  those  goals.  The  resentment 
produced by the uneven impacts of globalization within 
and among national economies, the anxiety generated 
by large movements of peoples fleeing extreme levels 
of  armed  conflict  and  brutality  across  continents  and 
the  widespread  devastation  at  the  hands  of  nature’s 
fury,  which  signal  the  urgency  of  climate  action,  are 
all depicted with startling starkness. Threats of nuclear 
escalation,  armed  conflict,  massive  refugee  flows, 
ever  escalating  terrorist  attacks,  endemic  poverty 
and  underdevelopment,  worsening  environmental 
degradation 
accelerating 
technological  change,  all  have  increased  rather  than 
diminished  the  demand  for  much  closer  and  more 
effective multilateralism.
change, 
and 
climate 
Yet the spirit of global partnership appears muted 
at best. While we have created a community of mutual 
dependence, we have yet to create one of mutual trust 
and respect. Multilateralism itself would seem to be in 
retreat. The world is clearly in a state of flux.
The  first  report  of  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  brings  out 
succinctly  some  of  the  global  challenges  we  face.  It 
points to many of the weaknesses in the United Nations 
system and makes a compelling case for reform.
Over the past several weeks, the Secretary-General 
has also elaborated some of his reform proposals for the 
United Nations system. We have conveyed our support 
17-30665
11/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
for the Secretary-General’s overall efforts to work for 
reform.  We  appreciate  the  initiative  to  establish  an 
Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  so  as  to  consolidate  the 
United Nations efforts on that significant problem. We 
welcome the push towards a greater gender balance in 
senior  appointments.  The  initiatives  to  tackle  sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse  are  innovative.  The  efforts  to 
deal with the fundamental fragmentation in the way that 
work is organized at the United Nations will improve 
delivery. Aligning authority with responsibility and the 
delegation  of  authority  to  managers  at  the  field  level, 
while  changing  organizational  designs  to  strengthen 
accountability,  are  proposals  that  are  all  overdue.  We 
appreciate  the  spirit  that  imbues  those  objectives,  as 
well as the Secretary-General’s willingness to change 
processes.  We  will  address  those  specific  issues  as 
they  are  unveiled  in  greater  detail.  From  a  policy 
perspective,  however,  we  need  to  assess  whether  the 
breadth of suggestions for reform matches the depth of 
the challenges we are facing.
Human  history  is,  in  part,  also  the  story  of  our 
adaptation to new technologies. Today, the gap between 
what technological advances permit and what the current 
system of multilateral cooperation is prepared to address 
is  growing  in  many  areas.  Technical  achievements, 
which  we  believed  to  be  capable  of  solving  all  our 
ills, are actually accentuating our sense of insecurity. 
Will the reform being talked about facilitate efforts to 
address  that  dichotomy?  Can  we,  in  all  honesty,  say 
that  the  reforms  that  we  are  contemplating  will  make 
us  fit  for  purpose  to  address  the  challenges  posed  by 
the furious pace of technological advances in artificial 
intelligence, 
geoengineering, 
directed-energy  systems  and  additive  manufacturing? 
Can  we  say  that  we  are  getting  prepared  through 
the  current  set  of  reform  efforts  to  address  issues  of 
global  commons  or  spaces  that  no  State  controls,  but 
on  which  all  States  rely  for  security  and  prosperity? 
As the commons — our oceans and outer space — get 
congested and contested, will the contemplated reforms 
address the challenges that those spaces will pose? For 
example, are we able to assess the concerns for “we the 
people” resulting from the more than 22,000 man-made 
objects orbiting the Earth? Cyberspace is just one more 
example of the frontier areas where we remain out of 
our depth in multilateral terms.
synthetic 
biology, 
Mrs.  Nusseibeh  (United  Arab  Emirates),  Vice­
President, took the Chair.
Speaking  very  evocatively  at  the  opening  of  the 
high-level week, the Secretary-General said that rather 
than a world at peace, we have a world in pieces. The 
aging pillars of a creaking and crumbling post-Second 
World War order are not amenable to improvement by 
minor stabs at modest reform at the margins. If we are 
not to remain prisoners of historical destiny for all time, 
and if we are to keep pace with the fast-moving threats 
we face, we will have to go beyond piecemeal changes. 
If not, we will be condemned to global governance in 
pieces too.
If  we  await  dramatic  crises  to  force  our  hand  to 
get  us  to  address  such  issues,  we  do  so  at  the  cost  of 
deepening the crisis of relevance and performance of the 
United Nations in particular, as well as the legitimacy 
and  effectiveness  of  multilateralism  in  general.  If  we 
choose to collectively address those issues as part of a 
quest to strive proactively for peace, justice and order, 
it will represent a necessary step in piecing together a 
system that is increasingly seen to be in pieces.
India,  for  its  part,  stands  ready  to  work  with  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  membership  in  finding  a 
pathway to a more lasting peace and prosperity for all.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): Let me start by conveying 
Pakistan’s  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
annual report on the work of the Organization (A/72/1). 
We agree with the Secretary-General’s assessment that 
the  international  situation  is  marked  by  conflicting 
trends.  While  the  international  community  has  made 
important progress in its fight against extreme poverty, 
hunger,  illiteracy  and  disease,  the  dividends  resulting 
from  those  gains  have  been  unequally  distributed. 
Inequality, exclusion and a lack of opportunity continue 
to blight the hopes and aspirations of millions of people, 
especially women and girls.
the  world  more 
As advancements in communication and commerce 
have  made 
interconnected  and 
interdependent, there are powerful voices of discontent 
casting  doubt  on  the  very  foundations  of  the  liberal 
economic  international  order.  At  the  same  time, 
changing  climatic  patterns  have  unleashed  nature’s 
fury in unforeseen and unprecedented ways.
Internal  conflicts  and  violence  continue 
to 
undermine the prospects for peace and stability across 
many parts of the world. Protracted conflicts have also 
spawned  unprecedented  humanitarian  crises,  if  not 
emergencies. Already displaced by the ravages of war, 
countless millions of people, including children, have 
12/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
been forced to wage fresh battles for survival against 
famine  and  disease.  Meanwhile  terrorism,  which  has 
mutated  into  new  and  more  dangerous  forms,  has  yet 
to be defeated.
At  a  time  when  international  cooperation  is 
needed most to address those interrelated and mutually 
reinforcing challenges, the world is, sadly, more divided 
and  polarized.  As  the  Secretary-General  urges  in  his 
report, we must revive faith in multilateralism so as to 
face  the  most  pressing,  indeed  shared,  challenges  of 
our  times.  The  United  Nations  remains  indispensable 
to our efforts to restore order and ensure global peace, 
stability and prosperity.
Just as the world has evolved over the past 70 years, 
so must the United Nations, so that it is fit for purpose. 
Today, more than ever, we need the United Nations to 
provide  the  parameters,  processes  and  platforms  for 
global  cooperation  that  are  essential  to  addressing 
our  wide-ranging  challenges  to  peace,  security  and 
development.  We  welcome  the  efforts  launched  by 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  to  revitalize  the 
United  Nations  capabilities  for  peace  and  security, 
development and management.
isolated  from 
By  the  same  token,  the  Security  Council  cannot 
remain 
the  process  of  change.  A 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is 
therefore  essential,  but  as  Pakistan’s  Prime  Minister 
told  the  Assembly  last  month,  the  process  should 
transform
“the  Security  Council  into  a  more  representative, 
democratic and accountable organ, rather than an 
expanded club of the powerful and the privileged.” 
(A/72/PV.14, p. 8)
We  consider  the  Secretary-General’s  emphasis  on 
prevention both apt and timely. A surge in diplomacy 
is  the  best  response  to  any  threat  to  peace.  Over  the 
years, peacekeeping has remained the United Nations 
flagship  enterprise  for  conflict  prevention,  mediation 
and sustaining peace.
Among the world’s top troop-contributing countries, 
Pakistan  is  proud  to  have  played  its  part  in  bringing 
hope  to  the  lives  of  millions  of  people  caught  up  in 
conflict  and  war  across  the  world.  This  year  alone, 
five  Pakistani  peacekeepers  made 
the  ultimate 
sacrifice  to  uphold  international  peace  and  security. 
Our  peacekeepers  have  always  displayed  the  highest 
standards  of  professionalism  and  conduct.  Pakistan 
was also among the first batch of countries to sign the 
United  Nations  voluntary  compact  on  preventing  and 
addressing sexual exploitation and abuse.
Respect  for  human  rights  is  at  the  core  of  the 
Secretary-General’s call for prevention and sustaining 
peace. But peace can only be built on a foundation of 
justice.  There  can  be  no  peace  without  justice.  Yet, 
these universal ideals are being violated, in plain sight 
of the international community, in Palestine, in Indian-
occupied Jammu and Kashmir and elsewhere.
The  continuing  Indian  occupation  of  Jammu  and 
Kashmir is a travesty of justice, law and morality. That 
dispute has been on the agenda of the United Nations 
and the Security Council for almost 70 years. But the 
people  of  Indian-occupied  Jammu  and  Kashmir  still 
await the implementation of numerous Security Council 
resolutions that promised them their inalienable right to 
self-determination.
The Kashmiri people, men, women and children, have 
waged a heroic and popular struggle against occupation. 
India  has  used  brutal  and  indiscriminate  force  to 
suppress the indigenous freedom movement. Hundreds 
of innocent, unarmed Kashmiris have been martyred in 
the recent wave of protests; countless others have been 
blinded  and  maimed  by  pellet  guns  in  what  has  been 
widely and rightly described as the first mass blinding 
in human history.
Indian  atrocities  in  Jammu  and  Kashmir  have 
been  well  documented  by  international  human  rights 
organizations.  India  does  not  deny  those  actions.  It 
defends them. It does not express remorse for the acts 
of the perpetrators of those war crimes. It rewards them 
with  national  honours.  To  cover  up  its  crimes  against 
the Kashmiri people and to divert world attention, India 
resorts  to  daily  violations  of  the  ceasefire  along  the 
Line of Control in Kashmir. It claims, falsely, to have 
conducted a surgical strike across the Line of Control. 
That claim, and India’s repeated threats to conduct such 
strikes across the Line of Control, constitutes a flagrant 
violation of the injunction against the use or threat of use 
of force enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
That gives my country sufficient reason to respond in 
exercise  of  its  right  to  self-defence.  By  making  such 
false claims and blatant threats, India’s leaders seem to 
be attempting to provoke a conflict with Pakistan. All 
I can say to them is that they should not underestimate 
Pakistan’s  resolve  and  capacity  to  defend  itself.  Any 
aggression  or  intervention  will  meet  a  matching  and 
17-30665
13/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
effective response from our armed forces and from the 
people of Pakistan.
Nor should the United Nations ignore India’s open 
threats  to  use  force.  The  international  community 
should  take  urgent  action  to  persuade  India  to  halt 
its  provocations  against  my  country.  The  nations  of 
the  world  represented  here  must  not  tolerate  India’s 
impunity  in  committing  its  crimes  against  humanity 
in  Kashmir  under  the  flimsy  cover  of  a  response  to 
terrorism.  The  only  terrorism  in  Kashmir  is  State 
terrorism  by  India.  The  brutalization  of  peoples  kept 
under  foreign  occupation  is,  in  fact,  considered  as 
the  gravest  form  of  terrorism  by  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned  Countries,  which  includes  almost  two 
thirds of the General Assembly’s membership.
Pakistan  has  been  on  the  front  lines  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism.  Our  military  campaigns,  involving 
200,000  of  our  troops,  have  crushed  and  eliminated 
terrorist groups in our frontier regions and our towns 
and  cities.  We  have  paid  a  heavy  price  —  27,000 
civilians  and  military  personnel  have  been  martyred, 
making  the  ultimate  sacrifice,  and  many  more  have 
been  injured  and  maimed  for  life,  but  that  does  not 
deter us. We will continue until we have eliminated the 
last terrorist from our soil.
But  as  we  all  know,  terrorism  is  now  a  global 
phenomenon  that  must  be  addressed  comprehensively 
in all its forms, including State terrorism. The global 
threat  of  terrorism  cannot,  however,  be  defeated 
unless  we  address  its  underlying  causes.  Poverty  and 
ignorance  are  part  of  the  problem,  as  are  social  and 
political exclusion, foreign intervention and the denial 
of economic and political justice. Similarly, extremist 
ideologies must also be challenged and countered.
Finally,  in  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  quote  Dag 
Hammarskjöld,  who  famously  said  that  the  United 
Nations  “was  not  created  to  take  mankind  to  heaven, 
but  to  save  humanity  from  hell.”  In  the  midst  of  the 
profound  and  imposing  challenges  confronting  us 
today,  the  United  Nations  remains  our  best  hope  to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. 
Pakistan’s  commitment  to  our  parliament  of  man 
is  firm  and  abiding,  and  we  will  work  collectively, 
collaboratively  and  together  for  a  better  and  brighter 
future, for all of humankind.
Mr.  Rattray  (Jamaica):  The  Secretary  General’s 
report on the work of the Organization (A/72/1) represents 
a tale of mixed fortunes. It recalls the significant strides 
that we have made in several areas and across various 
regions.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  millions  of  people 
have  been  lifted  out  of  poverty,  more  children  are 
achieving greater levels of education and more women 
are  entering  politics.  Sadly,  those  encouraging  signs 
have  been  met  with  very  disheartening  developments 
that place our achievements at risk.
to 
The  report  points,  quite  worryingly, 
the 
disturbing trends in the increasing numbers of terrorist 
attacks,  greater  inequality  and  marginalization,  and 
growing  humanitarian  crises.  It  provides  a  list  of 
various  challenges  that  affect  us  as  an  international 
community  and  threaten  our  commitment  to  leaving 
no one behind. We therefore agree with the Secretary-
General in his assessment that the Organization has to 
be more productive, proactive, dynamic and nimble in 
its approach to many of those issues.
My delegation is especially pleased that the report 
acknowledges  the  particular  challenges  that  beset 
middle-income  countries.  The  recognition  that  large 
numbers  of  people  struggling  with  poverty  live  in 
middle-income countries reinforces our long-standing 
contention  that  per-capita  income  as  a  percentage  of 
gross domestic product does not reflect the full picture 
of the development status of middle-income countries. 
The sense of exclusion of which the Secretary-General 
speaks  is  real  and  threatens  prospects  for  citizens  to 
live productive and decent lives.
The  Secretary-General  makes  a 
timely  and 
relevant assertion that the United Nations advocacy for 
disarmament is more vital than ever. Multilateral action 
on all disarmament and non-proliferation fronts remains 
central  to  our  common  endeavour.  That  is  vividly 
demonstrated  by  the  startling  reality,  highlighted  by 
the Secretary-General, that conventional arms remain 
the  predominant  means  of  killing  and  destruction. 
The  report’s  consideration  of  the  effects  of  crime  on 
development is instructive.
As a country challenged by high levels of crime and 
violence, we welcome the ongoing efforts of the United 
Nations  to  support  national  and  regional  programmes 
aimed at stemming that scourge. Given the symbiotic 
relationship  of  crime,  violence  and  drugs,  we  accord 
great importance to the Organization’s continued work 
in  that  field.  Jamaica  remains  particularly  keen  on 
exploring  the  follow-up  to  the  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  world  drug  problem,  which 
was held in 2016.
14/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
We  join  in  celebrating  the  historic  adoption  of 
the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and 
share  the  concerns  about  the  additional  challenges  of 
cybersecurity,  artificial  intelligence  and  the  potential 
harmful  use  of  outer  space,  which  the  Secretary-
General also highlights in his report.
that country and welcome the acknowledgement of the 
role that the United Nations has to play in effectively 
addressing the crisis. We urge all Member States in a 
position  to  do  so  to  contribute  to  the  United  Nations 
Multi-Partner Trust Fund that has been established to 
assist Haitians affected by the epidemic.
throughout 
As  witnessed 
the  year  and  most 
pointedly  during  the  recent  passage  of  Hurricanes 
Harvey, Irma and Maria, extreme weather phenomena 
and climate change present real and serious challenges 
for each and every one of us. The devastating impact 
of  natural  disasters  on  human  life  and  property  is 
undeniable.  The  Secretary-General’s  strong  signal  of 
his  commitment  to  responding  to  those  challenges  is 
therefore welcome. So too is the work being undertaken 
by Member States to draw up an international legally 
binding  instrument  in  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea to conserve 
and sustainably use marine biological diversity in areas 
beyond national jurisdiction.
We support the focus of the Secretary-General on 
the elimination of all forms of violence against women 
and children. We endorse the stance that he has taken 
that  the  United  Nations  must  continue  its  efforts  to 
that end. We also support the focus on the promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  as  integral  to  efforts 
aimed  at  preventing  conflict  and  at  sustaining  peace. 
We  underscore  that  such  efforts  should  also  take  into 
account all economic, social and cultural rights in the 
consideration of peace as a human rights imperative.
The  joint  United  Nations-World  Bank  flagship 
study  on  the  manner  in  which  development  and 
political processes interact to prevent violence should 
provide  some  useful  insights  into  some  aspects  of 
that dynamic. However, funding will no doubt remain 
critical.  The  empowerment  of  vulnerable  groups  will 
remain an essential aspect of the United Nations work. 
My delegation is pleased that that has been highlighted 
in the report and is supportive of that approach.
We  read  with  interest  the  Secretary-General’s 
reference to the important role that partnerships can play 
in  advancing  the  work  of  the  Organization.  However, 
we  would  have  welcomed  a  specific  reference  to  the 
Caribbean Community in that context, as our subregion 
is committed to strengthening its cooperation with the 
United Nations.
I conclude by reiterating my delegation’s commitment 
to the Organization and our shared vision of a United 
Nations that is responsive to the needs of its constituents.
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like  to  touch  briefly  on  some  of  the  issues  reflected 
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/72/1)  that  we  find  noteworthy.  As 
the  world  is  witnessing  a  plethora  of  complex  and 
interconnected  challenges,  we  join  the  Secretary-
General in his assessment in paragraph 4 of the report 
that
“now more than ever, multilateral action is needed 
to find effective solutions to this mix of challenges”.
We  also  share  his  concern  in  paragraph  140  of  the 
report that
“multilateralism is being questioned at a time when 
we  most  need  coherent  global  responses  to  these 
interconnected events”.
In a very pertinent case, we would like to reiterate 
that the Iran nuclear deal, as a testament to the value 
of  diplomacy,  should  be  protected  from  any  attempt 
to  modify  it,  as  that  will  undermine  not  only  the 
agreement,  but  also  diplomacy  and  multilateralism 
in  general.  In  that  context,  we  renew  our  call  to  the 
Secretariat  to  take  a  more  constructive  approach  to 
fulfilling its reporting function.
On  preserving  international  peace  and  security, 
the  report  rightly  points  out  that  the  adoption  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  was  a 
step towards the universally desired goal of a nuclear-
weapon-free  world.  In  our  view,  it  also  represented  a 
collective protest against the almost 50-year violation 
of  nuclear  disarmament  obligations  by  the  nuclear-
weapon  States.  In  that  context,  we  also  expect  it  to 
include  the  alarming  trends  of  the  new  nuclear  arms 
race  and  nuclear-arms  modernization  race,  as  well  as 
the  strong  international  call  that  has  been  made  for 
putting an immediate end to such races.
In the specific case of Haiti, we are pleased with the 
efforts being made to respond to the cholera outbreak in 
On  the  issue  of  peacekeeping  operations,  Iran 
believes  that  such  operations  are  the  strongest  and 
17-30665
15/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
to 
lead 
most  effective  tools  for  maintaining  global  peace  and 
security, as well as for containing conflicts. However, 
as recommended by the High-level Independent Panel 
on  Peace  Operations  in  its  report  (see  A/70/95),  Iran 
believes  that  United  Nation  peacekeeping  missions 
should  not  engage 
in  military  counter-terrorism 
operations, which should be done by host Governments.
The  establishment  of  the  Office  of  Counter-
Terrorism 
the  counter-terrorism-related 
activities  across  the  United  Nations  system  has  the 
potential to enhance United Nations capacity, strengthen 
coherence and coordination, and improve internal and 
external  communication.  It  could  also  strengthen  the 
United Nations capacity to address the root causes of 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  It  is  imperative  to 
allocate  sufficient  financial  resources  for  the  Office 
from the United Nations regular budget. We note with 
concern that in the new structure, most of the positions 
will  be  funded  through  voluntary  funds.  Moreover, 
there  should  be  sufficient  and  sustainable  funding 
available from the regular budget for capacity-building 
to meet the needs of Member States upon request, and 
such funding should be made available in an impartial, 
balanced and sustainable manner.
As  for 
the  ongoing  United  Nations  reform 
consultation  process  on  development,  it  is  essential 
to bear in mind the significance of the alignment and 
compatibility of the United Nations development system 
with  the  policies,  priorities  and  needs  of  developing 
countries, with an emphasis on national ownership and 
leadership at the country level.
In that context, we would like to recall the scope 
and  mandate  of  the  operational  activities  for  the 
development of the United Nations system envisioned 
in resolution 71/243. Our region is now grappling with 
numerous human, environmental and social challenges. 
Achieving peace and sustainable development in tandem 
has become the Middle East’s most urgent priority. In 
that regard, the United Nations reform process should 
help  the  countries  of  our  region  to  meet  their  special 
needs and challenges. It is also important that the United 
Nations regain its leading role in shaping world public 
opinion, rather than following biased media trends or 
the agenda of donor countries.
By  way  of  conclusion,  my  delegation  takes  note 
of 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  regarding 
the 
reform  of  the  management  of  the  Organization.  I 
would  like  to  emphasize  that  any  reform  effort  must 
strengthen  the  ability  of  Member  States  to  perform 
their oversight and monitoring roles, as well as preserve 
the  intergovernmental,  multilateral  and  international 
nature of the Organization. We will carefully examine 
the  Secretary-General’s  reform  proposal  and  actively 
participate in the consultations on that issue. The world 
today faces exponentially greater risks, but we also have 
greater opportunities. Let us join hands to confront the 
risks,  while  appreciating  the  new  opportunities  for  a 
better and brighter future.
Mr.  Sadykov  (Kazakhstan):  At  the  outset,  we 
express  our  deepest  condolences  to  the  United  States 
for  the  loss  of  innocent  lives  in  the  massacre  that 
took  place  last  weekend,  and  we  wish  the  injured  a 
speedy recovery.
We  thank  Secretary-General  Guterres  for  his 
comprehensive report on the work of the Organization 
(A/72/1), which demonstrates that the United Nations is 
the only global, multilateral platform that can address 
global  issues,  threats  and  challenges.  We  highly 
commend his courage and commitment to improving the 
work of the Organization and taking it into the twenty-
first century. His forward-looking, yet pragmatic vision 
and leadership will bring the international community 
together as we support his thrust to counter global risks 
by  promoting  both  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development and the sustaining peace agenda, the two 
key trajectories of the United Nations.
Kazakhstan fully endorses and will work with others 
on  the  Secretary-General’s  plan  for  bold  and  much-
needed  system-wide  reforms  in  areas  ranging  from 
management and gender parity to human resources, in 
order to improve the coordination of the United Nations 
development system. We will be actively engaged with 
others  in  efforts  to  achieve  enhanced  accountability 
and transparency and to pool our resources to make the 
United Nations more cost-effective and result-oriented.
The  Secretary-General’s  approach  and  focus  on 
prevention,  using  the  tool  of  preventive  diplomacy, 
is  also  one  of  the  core  principles  of  my  country’s 
foreign  policy.  It  was  in  1992,  soon  after  we  became 
independent, 
the  President  of  Kazakhstan, 
Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  convened  the  Conference  on 
Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia 
(CICA), an intergovernmental forum to promote peace, 
security and stability in Asia and beyond. We will work 
towards a greater synergy between the United Nations 
and the CICA.
that 
16/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
As  the  country  representing  Central  Asia  on  the 
Security Council for the first time in the history of the 
United Nations, we will support the United Nations and 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  by  promoting  security 
and  stability  in  the  region,  by  fully  implementing 
the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
for  Preventive  Diplomacy  for  Central  Asia,  which  is 
celebrating its tenth anniversary.
Compliance with international law is the bedrock 
of  national,  regional  and  global  peace  and  security. 
Upholding  the  principles  of  the  national  sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of States will thereby prevent 
humankind  from  repeating  the  tragic  mistakes  of 
the  past.  We  therefore  underscore  the  crucial  need  to 
reaffirm the principles of international law.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  initiatives 
to  reform  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and 
the 
restructuring of its mechanisms at Headquarters and in 
the field, with a view to strengthening the Organization’s 
ability to prevent and counter asymmetrical conflicts. 
We  agree  that  clear  mandates  with  achievable  goals 
and the use of regional forces will bring about greater 
relevance,  effectiveness  and  accountability.  Engaging 
new contributing countries would reduce the deployment 
gap  for  rapid-reaction  emergency  responses.  We 
support the Secretary-General’s concept of sustaining 
peace  by  using  all  tools  in  an  integrated  manner  and 
in parallel. Kazakhstan is committed to supporting the 
United Nations by enlarging its contribution to United 
Nations peacekeeping missions.
The  Secretary-General  has  spoken  of  the  need 
to  fight  terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  In  June, 
therefore, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Central 
Asian  States  had  the  opportunity  to  work  with  the 
Secretary-General  in  Ashgabat,  when  he  participated 
in the High-level Dialogue on Implementing the United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy in Central 
Asia.  Kazakhstan  will  work  closely  with  the  newly 
established United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism 
to  fight  international  terrorism  through  a  long-term 
comprehensive  approach.  We  are  therefore  proposing 
the adoption of a code of conduct for the achievement of 
a terrorism-free world, which will positively strengthen 
regional and global cooperation in accordance with the 
Charter of the United Nations and international law.
Kazakhstan is fully engaged in fighting the nuclear 
threat,  one  of  the  most  urgent  tasks  of  our  time.  The 
current year has witnessed important developments, such 
as the historic adoption of the Treaty on the Prohibition 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  which  hopefully  will  lead  to  a 
total  ban  on  nuclear  weapons.  Kazakhstan  actively 
participated  in  that  process  and  will  sign  the  Treaty 
on  the  completion  of  its  internal  procedures.  We  also 
inaugurated the International Atomic Energy Agency’s 
low-enriched  uranium  nuclear  bank  to  facilitate  the 
development of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and 
the strengthening the regime for the non-proliferation 
of weapons of mass destruction. Kazakhstan shares the 
view of the Secretary-General that the United Nations 
now  faces  the  additional  challenges  of  cybersecurity, 
artificial  intelligence  and  the  potentially  harmful 
use  of  outer  space.  We  believe  that  the  international 
community  should  take  appropriate  and  coordinated 
measures to cope with those new challenges.
Kazakhstan is deeply committed to all 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals, promoting justice and equality for 
all and countering climate change. Despite our abundant 
conventional energy resources, we are deeply committed 
to a diversified, green economy with alternative energy 
sources. That sort of thinking led us to choose “Future 
Energy” as the theme for the Astana Expo 2017, which 
opened  on  10  June  and  concluded  on  10  September. 
Some 122 countries and 18 international organizations, 
including the United Nations system, showcased their 
best  solutions  for  gernerating  renewable  sources  of 
energy and combating climate change.
is  reflected 
in 
the 
include 
least  developed, 
Our  commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development 
the 
strategic national legislation and programmes that our 
Government  has  adopted,  as  well  as  our  partnership 
with  all  countries,  especially  the  most  vulnerable, 
which 
landlocked 
developing  countries  and  small  island  developing 
States. My country will therefore focus on enabling all 
countries in such special situations to reach their own 
vision.  Our  consistent  approach  to  solving  problems 
is  threefold,  consisting  of  strengthening  the  security-
development  nexus,  taking  a  more  regional  approach 
rather  than  a  narrow  country  focu,  and  establishing 
a  well-coordinated  development  strategy  based  on 
the  United  Nations  system,  best  described  as  “One 
United  Nations”,  with  the  full  engagement  of  women 
and  young  people  and  aimed  at  50-50  representation. 
Notwithstanding  the  challenges,  by  working  with  the 
Secretary-General, the United Nations, Member States 
17-30665
17/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
and others, we will see a better future for people and 
the planet.
Ms. Hailu (Ethiopia): I would like to start my brief 
remarks  by  applauding  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/72/1).  It  is 
indeed  comprehensive  and  covers  all  aspects  of  the 
work of the Organization. It does that succinctly and is 
therefore very helpful for framing exchanges of views 
among  Member  States  at  a  time  when  the  role  of  the 
United Nations has perhaps become more critical than 
ever.
Let  me  say  that  we  agree  with  the  thrust  of  the 
narrative that underlines the report. Though the world 
has  seen  significant  progress  in  reducing  poverty, 
expanding health and education and improving gender 
equality, the current global context presents new risks 
for  our  hard-won  collective  progress,  as  the  report 
rightly  acknowledges.  Poverty,  inequality,  economic 
fragility, unemployment, conflict, the adverse impacts 
of climate change, governance shortcomings and illegal 
migration  are  among  the  challenges  that  threaten  our 
agenda, which seeks to create a world free from want 
and  fear.  Hence,  two  years  after  adopting  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  with  much 
optimism,  we  cannot  deny  that  that  optimism  has 
dissipated. We have to recreate that optimism, because 
there  is  no  alternative.  It  is  therefore  crucial  to  find 
effective and durable solutions to the multiple common 
challenges  we  face,  while  maximizing  the  benefits  of 
globalization  for  all.  That  is  how  we  will  realize  the 
vision of leaving no one behind.
The  multifaceted  and  transnational  challenges 
require transboundary actions, since no single country, 
no matter how powerful, can solve our global problems 
alone.  Although  the  world  has  transformative  and 
comprehensive  development  frameworks,  what 
is 
required  is  political  determination  and  commitment 
to  acting  collectively 
in 
a  more  effective  multilateralism  and  revitalized 
global  partnership  and  solidarity.  In  that  regard,  the 
commitments  of  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda, as well as the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  should  be  translated  into  action 
aimed  at  eradicating  all  forms  of  poverty,  mobilizing 
sufficient  financial  and  technological  resources  and 
combating the negative effects of climate change.
through  renewed  faith 
Furthermore, the United Nations should be fit for 
purpose,  so  that  it  can  support  developing  countries, 
the  most  vulnerable  countries, 
particularly 
in 
implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in 
line  with  their  national  priorities.  In  that  respect,  we 
support  the  reform  agenda  of  the  Secretary-General. 
Without  underestimating 
the  specific  challenges 
that  each  country  faces,  it  is  important  to  provide 
special  attention  to  the  most  vulnerable  countries,  in 
particular  the  least  developed  countries.  Meaningful 
priority  should  therefore  be  given  to  countries  in 
special  situations,  with  the  aim  of  implementing  the 
global  development  frameworks  and  undertaking  the 
United  Nations  reforms.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  further  strengthen 
United  Nations  peace  and  development  efforts  in 
Africa.  We  support  the  recent  agreement  reached 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union, 
and we look forward to the Secretary-General’s report 
on  financing  African-led  peace  support  missions  this 
coming November.
Achieving  inclusive  and  sustainable  development, 
as well as building a participatory democratic system, 
has been the overriding policy objective of the Ethiopian 
Government. By implementing integrated development 
strategies  through  a  participatory  and  decentralized 
federal approach, Ethiopia has been able to meet most of 
the Millennium Development Goals. Moreover, we have 
continued to register encouraging results in executing 
our current national development plan, the Growth and 
Transformation  Plan  2015-2020,  which  integrates  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  implementing  our 
Plan,  along  with  reducing  poverty  through  rapid  and 
inclusive  economic  growth,  we  are  devoting  special 
attention  to  structural  economic  transformation  and 
building a green and climate-resilient economy.
We have made people-centred progress by reducing 
poverty,  enhancing  the  well-being  of  our  people  and 
increasing  the  resilience  and  the  productive  capacity 
of  our  economy.  However,  poverty,  unemployment, 
deficits  in  good  governance,  inadequate  development 
funding  and  the  adverse  consequences  of  climate 
change  are  among  the  challenges  that  we  continue 
to  face.  By  taking  lessons  from  our  successes  and 
our  shortcomings,  we  seek  to  intensify  our  efforts  to 
implement  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  in 
accordance  with  our  specific  national  conditions.  No 
matter what we may have achieved, we are fully aware 
that without renewed international cooperation, we are 
unlikely to fully prevail over poverty. That is why we 
believe in multilateralism, and promoting that objective 
18/20 
17-30665
03/10/2017 
A/72/PV.28
is also in our national interest. We believe that applies 
to all countries.
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  that  the  United 
Nations  system  in  general,  including  the  General 
Assembly, has an important role to play in advancing 
and advocating for the full and timely implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda.  We  believe,  as  the  report  of  the 
Secretary  General  underscores,  that  it  is  through  a 
coherent and coordinated approach that fully embraces 
the  three  pillars  of  development  that  we  can  realize 
people-centred peace and prosperity for all.
Mr.  Awad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation has taken note of the Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/72/1), and I would like to comment briefly on some 
of the issues that were mentioned in the report.
We  welcome 
the  report’s  discussion  of 
the 
challenges  that  the  United  Nations  is  facing,  such  as 
the  fulfilment  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  climate  change,  equality,  transparency, 
United Nations reform, multilateralism and the culture 
of early prevention. We also affirm the role of Member 
States  in  all  of  the  above,  bearing  in  mind  that  the 
United  Nations  is  an  intergovernmental  organization 
and  that  Member  States  are  the  decision-makers  in 
this body. My delegation welcomes the mention in the 
report  of  the  establishment  of  the  Office  of  Counter-
Terrorism, because it should enhance advocacy efforts 
and the mobilization of resources to expand the scope 
of  efforts  aimed  at  enhancing  initiatives  to  prevent 
conflict  and  dealing  with  root  causes  leading  to  the 
recruitment of terrorists. We would like to note that we 
have  previously  expressed  our  reservations  about  the 
financing  of  the  Office  by  one  country  —  a  country 
that is known for financing terrorism — instead of from 
the regular budget of the United Nations. My country’s 
experience  in  combating  armed  terrorist  groups  that 
are supported and funded by certain countries is well 
known  to  all  and  deserved  specific  mention  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report,  which,  unfortunately,  did 
not happen.
Secondly, the Secretary-General’s report made no 
mention of the Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan 
and other Arab territories that have been occupied since 
1967, or of all the resolutions that have called for an end 
to the worst occupation ever known to humankind.
Thirdly, the report does not mention the unilateral 
group of measures that have been imposed on several 
countries,  including  Syria,  by  the  United  States  of 
America,  the  European  Union  and  other  States  in  a 
manner that is not in line with international law or the 
Charter of the United Nations.
My  delegation  strongly  rejects  a  statement  in 
paragraph 115 of the Secretary-General’s report, which 
says
the 
International, 
in 
to  Assist 
and  Prosecution 
“In an unprecedented step, the General Assembly 
Impartial,  and 
established 
Independent  Mechanism 
the 
of  Persons 
Investigation 
Responsible  for  the  Most  Serious  Crimes  under 
International  Law  Committed  in  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic since March 2011.”
As  is  well  known,  my  delegation  rejects  that 
Mechanism, which was established by an illegitimate, 
non-consensual resolution (71/248), full of political and 
legal holes. The resolution was submitted by countries 
that  are  well  known  for  their  anti-Syrian  agendas. 
Moreover,  the  Mechanism’s  establishment  represents 
blatant interference in the internal affairs of my country 
in a manner that is not in line with the principles and 
purposes of the Charter or with international law.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note 
of the report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the Organization contained in document A/72/1?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers in exercise of the right of reply, I would like 
to  remind  members  that  statements  in  the  exercise  of 
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first 
intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second,  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Gambhir  (India):  I  am  taking  the  floor 
to  respond  to  the  remarks  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Pakistan in the debate earlier today.
Even  as  we  heard  speakers  address  concerns 
of  the  present  and  the  future,  we  also  heard  a  lonely 
voice from the wilderness articulate a narrative of the 
past. That voice focused on an issue that has not even 
been deliberated on in the United Nations for decades 
and  that  Pakistan  tries  to  keep  alive  via  procedural 
stratagems even as the world has moved on. Yesterday’s 
people, reflecting antiquated mindsets of bygone times, 
17-30665
19/20
A/72/PV.28 
03/10/2017
are symbolic of what holds us all back. My delegation 
does not wish to waste the Assembly’s precious time by 
engaging further in such distractions.
Mr.  Warraich  (Pakistan):  My  delegation 
is 
compelled to take the floor in exercise of the right of 
reply to the statement just made by the representative 
of India. Despite what some may believe, the repetition 
of  groundless  accusations  and  fabrications  does 
not  lend  them  credibility.  They  may  at  best  satisfy  a 
self-delusional  notion  of  reality.  But  a  farce  can  only 
go  so  far.  Let  me  recall  for  the  benefit  of  the  Indian 
representative  that  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  not  a  part 
of  India.  It  never  was  and  never  will  be.  It  has  been 
recognized by the United Nations and the international 
community as disputed territory. The Indian occupation 
of Jammu and Kashmir is therefore illegal. No amount 
of  obfuscation,  diversion,  deceit  and  aggression  can 
hide that fact.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 110?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Before concluding, I wish 
to make an announcement concerning the membership 
of  the  General  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session.  Members  will  recall 
that for the seventy-second session, the President, the 
21  Vice-Presidents  and  the  Chairs  of  the  six  Main 
Committees were elected on 31 May 2017. Subsequently, 
I would like to inform members that on 28 September, 
His Excellency Mr. Mohammed Hussein Bahr Aluloom 
of  Iraq  was  elected  Chair  of  the  First  Committee  of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session in 
order  to  replace  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mouayed  Saleh, 
and is accordingly a member of the General Committee 
for  the  session.  I  congratulate  the  Chair  of  the  First 
Committee on his election.
The meeting rose at 12.10 p.m.
20/20 
17-30665
