United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
48th plenary meeting
Monday, 13 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 11
Sport for development and peace: building a 
peaceful and better world through sport and the 
Olympic ideal
Draft resolution (A/72/L.5)
The President: I want to start my statement today 
by  acknowledging  that  sport  is  not  always  associated 
with  the  United  Nations,  which  is  understandable. 
The things that happen on a tennis court or a running 
track look very different from what we are doing here. 
However, there is in fact a strong link between sport and 
the values and work of the United Nations, and today’s 
meeting gives us an opportunity to reaffirm that link. I 
want to make three points in that respect.
First, simply put, sport can bring people together. It 
is founded on universal values that include discipline, 
fairness and respect for opponents and rules. We may 
speak different languages or have different customs or 
viewpoints, but once we step onto a field or court, we 
are all part of the same system. In that way, sport can 
be a universal instrument that can promote both peace 
and  unity.  The  United  Nations  has  used  such  a  tool 
before, particularly through its peacekeeping missions 
and  country  teams.  Sport  has  helped  open  doors  in 
the  communities  that  the  United  Nations  serves.  It 
has  been  used  to  build  confidence  and  trust  in  post-
conflict  settings,  and  it  has  played  an  important  role 
in  the  reintegration  of  ex-combatants,  including  child 
soldiers.  Certainly,  sport  alone  cannot  stop  conflict 
or bring about peace, but I believe that a football or a 
hockey puck is a better peacekeeping tool than a gun. 
It costs less money. It can build rather than destroy. It 
brings people together instead of sending them fleeing 
for their lives, and it invokes enthusiasm, not fear. I am 
confident that the United Nations will continue to use 
that tool in its work on the ground.
The  second  point  that  I  want  to  make  is  that  the 
Olympic  Games  and  the  United  Nations  aspire  to  the 
same  ideal,  that  is,  an  ideal  based  on  humanity.  It  is 
predicated on the fact that no matter what is going on in 
State capitals around the world, people will always have 
a space in which to engage and connect. That space can 
be the finish line of an Olympic sprint, or a Hall such 
as this one. Whether as athletes or diplomats, we must 
use  such  spaces.  We  must  show  that  humankind  can 
triumph over politics.
The  last  point  that  I  want  to  make  relates  to 
youth.  Sport  can  offer  young  people  a  platform  for 
empowerment.  It  can  give  hope  for  a  brighter  future. 
It  can  enable  young  people  to  build  their  capacity  for 
strategic  thinking,  teamwork  and  leadership,  and 
it  can  provide  a  route  out  of  underdevelopment  and 
poverty. Increasingly, the United Nations is working to 
engage and empower young people all over the world. 
We must reach out to young people in a way that will 
resonate  with  them.  Sport  offers  a  major  opportunity 
in that respect. We have already seen some success in 
mobilizing  athletes  and  sports  teams  to  promote  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  should  work  to 
support and replicate and expand on those examples.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37640 (E)
*1737640*
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
In conclusion, I want to stress the link between sport 
and the values and work of the United Nations. It is a 
link that we should do more to strengthen. That is why 
we  should  warmly  welcome  Olympic  gold  medallist 
Ms. Kim Yuna to the General Assembly today, and why 
we  should  seek  out  opportunities  to  support  and  use 
sport as a driver of peace, development and humankind. 
A major opportunity of this kind will present itself in 
February, when the XXIII Olympic Winter Games will 
be hosted in the Republic of Korea. It is more important 
than ever to reaffirm the ideals of the United Nations 
and  the  Olympic  Games  on  the  Korean  peninsula. 
We  must  seize  that  opportunity.  I  therefore  wish  the 
Republic of Korea every success in hosting the Winter 
Games  and  look  forward  to  being  in  Pyeongchang 
myself next February to attend the Games.
I  call  on  all  countries  to  participate  in  the  2018 
Winter  Olympics.  Let  us  demonstrate  once  again  the 
power  of  sport  to  bring  us  together  and  overcome 
political, cultural and historical divides.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the  Republic  of  Korea  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/72/L.5.
Mr. Lee Hee-beom (Republic of Korea): On behalf 
of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  it  is  a 
great  honour  and  privilege  for  me  to  introduce  draft 
resolution  A/72/L.5,  entitled  “Sport  for  development 
and peace: building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal”.
In  less  than  90  days,  the  entire  world  will  enjoy 
the  most  spectacular  Olympic  Winter  Games  in 
Pyeongchang  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  Republic 
of Korea is ready to welcome the world. We are ready 
to  act  as  hosts  to  the  Olympic  family,  the  world’s 
media and spectators from around the world. I am very 
pleased to report to the General Assembly that we have 
completed all the preparations for the Games, including 
the construction of all competition and non-competition 
venues. We have also finished building new roads, and a 
high-speed train will be open to the public in December. 
The  Olympic  flame  arrived  in  Korea  on  1  November 
and is currently travelling across the country, ready to 
welcome the world.
As we all know, the General Assembly has made it 
a tradition to adopt the Olympic Truce draft resolution 
every two years since the adoption of resolution 48/11, 
in 1993. It is about reminding everyone and respecting 
the  ancient  Olympic  tradition  in  Greece  of  ceasing 
all  hostilities  during  the  Games.  The  draft  resolution 
serves  the  purpose  of  ending  all  conflicts  during  the 
Olympic Truce. It begins seven days prior to the opening 
of  the  Olympic  Games,  and  concludes  on  the  seventh 
day  after  the  closing  of  the  Paralympic  Games.  The 
Olympic Truce ensures the safe passage of the athletes 
and  all  other  Olympic-accredited  personnel  when 
they travel to and from the Olympic Games. The draft 
resolution  also  signifies  the  Assembly’s  strong  wish 
that  the  Pyeongchang  Games  will  provide  a  window 
of  opportunity  to  foster  an  environment  conducive  to 
building and sustaining peace on the Korean peninsula 
in North-East Asia.
The Olympic Truce is about the promotion of peace 
through sport. We Koreans still vividly remember the 
1988  Seoul  Olympic  Games  —  an  exemplary  case  of 
promoting  peace  by  bringing  East  and  West  together. 
The 2000 Sydney Summer Olympic Games was another 
good example in that regard. With strong support from 
the International Olympic Committee, the delegations 
of both Koreas walked into the Olympic stadium during 
the opening ceremony, marching together hand-in-hand 
under the same flag.
Those two events demonstrated the power of sport, 
which  unites  people.  It  is  my  strong  belief  that  we 
should  and  can  continue  that  tradition.  I  believe  that 
the  Olympic  Games  represent  the  best  expression  of 
our values translated into action. Since 2004, we have 
been running our own Olympic Truce programmes so 
as to emphasize the importance of the Olympic Truce 
Movement  in  tandem  with  the  Olympic  values  of 
excellence, friendship and respect. For the past 14 years, 
Gangwon province, which is the regional Government 
of  the  host  city  of  Pyeongchang,  has  welcomed  more 
than 1,900 young students from 83 countries. Through 
the  Pyeongchang  Dream  Programme,  it  has  provided 
young  participants  from  developing  countries,  or 
countries  with  no  winter  season  and  no  winter-sport 
facilities,  with  a  once-in-a-lifetime  opportunity  to 
experience and enjoy winter sports. I am very happy to 
inform the Assembly that two participants in the Dream 
Programme  have  become  Olympians 
in  Olympic 
Winter  Games.  In  addition,  seven  other  participants 
have represented their countries in the Youth Olympic 
Games.  We  have  also  directly  engaged  more  than 
6  million  students  through  various  school  visits  and 
cultural  activities  since  2014.  The  online  educational 
component is currently accessible to all young Koreans 
and  will  remain  open  even  after  the  Games  in  order 
2/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
to continue to promote peace and the Olympic ideals. 
Moreover,  we  have  held  numerous  activities,  such  as 
the  National  Model  United  Nations  Conference  and 
other special programmes, to encourage young people 
to  engage  in  dialogues  on  the  topics  of  peace  and 
reconciliation. More than 1 million students from many 
countries have participated in our peace initiatives, of 
which we are very proud.
On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  welcome  three 
Korean  high-school  students  who  have  participated 
in  our  programmes.  They  are  here  with  us  today  to 
represent the young people of Korea and their desire for 
a peaceful Olympic Games. As International Olympic 
Committee  President  Thomas  Bach  has  reiterated,  no 
other  event  brings  the  entire  world  together  like  the 
Olympic  Games.  Against  that  background,  during  a 
plenary meeting of the General Assembly in September, 
President  Moon  Jae-in  of  the  Republic  of  Korea 
expressed  his  commitment  to  peace  on  the  Korean 
peninsula and his earnest desire for it (see A/72/PV.11). 
I would like to take this opportunity to assure Member 
States once again that we, the Organizing Committee 
for  the  Olympic  Games,  together  with  the  Korean 
Government,  are  committed  to  ensuring  a  secure  and 
peaceful Olympic Games so that everyone can feel safe 
and comfortable throughout their stay.
The Pyeongchang Games will be the first of three 
consecutive Olympic and Paralympic Games in North-
East Asia. Our partners and friends from Tokyo 2020 
and Beijing 2022 will also stand before the Assembly 
to support the draft resolution. We Koreans hope that 
those  three  Olympic  Games  will  provide  a  window 
of  opportunity  for  promoting  peace  and  economic 
cooperation  in  North-East  Asia.  We  hope  that  our 
joint action today will lead to a chain reaction for the 
promotion  of  peace  within  the  region  and  beyond. 
Together  we  are  more  powerful  than  any  one  of  us 
working alone.
I would like to emphasize that the values of peace 
and  sport  go  hand  in  hand  with  the  Olympics.  We 
want to share that message as we aim to open up new 
horizons  for  sport.  On  behalf  of  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  host  city  of 
Pyeongchang and the Organizing Committee, I would 
like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
convening  this  plenary  meeting,  and  to  cordially  ask 
that  the  Assembly  support  the  draft  resolution  before 
it today.
The  President:  Before  proceeding  further,  as 
mentioned in my letter dated 8 November, I should like 
to  consult  members  with  a  view  to  inviting  Ms.  Kim 
Yuna,  Olympic  gold  medallist  in  figure  skating  and 
Goodwill  Ambassador  for  the  2018  Pyeongchang 
Olympic  and  Paralympic  Winter  Games,  to  make  a 
statement on this occasion.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly,  without  setting  a  precedent,  to  invite 
Ms. Kim Yuna to make a statement at this meeting?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision 
just  taken,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Kim  Yuna, 
Olympic gold medallist in figure skating and Goodwill 
Ambassador  for  the  2018  Pyeongchang  Olympic  and 
Paralympic Winter Games.
Ms. Kim Yuna: I would like to thank the President 
of the General Assembly and Member States for giving 
me  this  opportunity  to  address  the  Assembly  this 
morning on the role of sport and the Olympic ideal in 
promoting peace.
As  a  former  figure  skater,  a  two-time  Olympian 
and a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, I stand proudly 
before Member States as Honorary Ambassador for the 
Pyeongchang  2018  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Winter 
Games to share my personal experience in witnessing 
the power of sport in breaking down the walls of race, 
region, language and religion all around the world.
One hundred and twenty-three years ago, the father 
of the modern Olympics, Pierre de Coubertin, said that 
the Olympic spirit is not the property of any one race or 
one age. We might want to add today that the Olympic 
spirit is not the exclusive property of any one nation or 
region of the world or of any one religion or faith. The 
Olympic Charter now states that the goal of Olympism 
is  to  place  sport  at  the  service  of  the  harmonious 
development of humankind, with a view to promoting 
a peaceful society concerned with the preservation of 
human dignity. I strongly believe that that is the spirit of 
the Olympic Games and that it represents the potential 
and the power of sport.
I first experienced the same spirit and power as a 
10-year-old child watching the South and North Korean 
delegations walk into the Olympic stadium together in 
2000. Today I hope to witness that power again as the 
General Assembly adopts draft resolution A/72/L.5.
17-37640
3/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
I firmly believe that the Pyeongchang 2018 Olympic 
and Paralympic Winter Games will help to spread the 
message of peace through one of the few languages that 
has the power to unite people around the world — the 
graceful and universal language of sport. Pyeongchang 
represents  perhaps  the  most  sincere  effort  to  cross 
the  frozen  border  between  the  South  and  the  North 
and  to  foster  a  peaceful  environment.  In  particular, 
I  am  confident  that  the  upcoming  Pyeongchang  2018 
Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games will be one of 
the  best  possible  platforms  not  only  for  transmitting 
that message but also for sharing the Olympic spirit of 
peace for humankind with the entire world.
I would like to promise to everyone that I will do 
my best to help Pyeongchang 2018 serve as the model 
for a successful Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games 
for all the years to come. In turn, I would like to ask 
for  the  continued  support  of  the  Assembly  to  help  to 
build the legacy of Pyeongchang for the benefit of all 
future Olympic and Paralympic Games and the spirit of 
world peace. I humbly ask Member States to continue 
to  support  the  Pyeongchang  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Winter  Games  and  the  ideals  of  the  Olympic  Truce 
Movement.  I  hope  to  see  members  again  next  year 
in Pyeongchang.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  For 
the  twenty-third  time,  the  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Winter  Games  will  open  in  February.  The  world’s 
attention  will  be  focused  on  the  opening  ceremonies 
and  the  15  disciplines  of  the  Pyeongchang  Games  in 
the  Republic  of  Korea.  For  the  fifty-second  time,  the 
Summer  and  Winter  Games  will  become  symbols  of 
effort, excellence and fair play. For the twelfth time, the 
General Assembly today is calling for the observance 
of the Olympic Truce.
Allow me to warmly congratulate our friends from 
the Republic of Korea delegation for the draft resolution 
(A/72/L.5)  that  was  just  introduced  to  the  General 
Assembly,  which  we  will  adopt  by  acclamation.  The 
Principality  of  Monaco  is  proud  to  be  a  co-author  of 
that  text,  which  is  an  affirmation  of  our  belief  that 
sport and the Olympic ideal can build a peaceful and 
better world.
The  call  to  respect  the  Olympic  Truce  represents 
more than just a powerful symbol of peace. The titles 
of the agenda item and of draft resolution are directly 
inspired by the values that are supported and promoted 
by the Olympic Movement. That is no coincidence, given 
that  the  Movement  brings  together  the  International 
Olympic  Committee, 
206  National  Olympic 
Committees,  the  International  Sport  Federation,  the 
various Organizing Committees of the Olympic Games 
and all people who adhere to the values   of the Olympic 
Charter. The Olympic Movement has unique reach.
It seems particularly important today to recall that 
Olympism and its values, as enshrined in the Olympic 
Charter, are in line with the principles and ideals that 
transcend our work in this forum and are enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations. Let us not forget that 
Olympism is also, and perhaps even first and foremost, 
a philosophy of life — a balance between the qualities 
of the body, will and spirit. Humanity, dignity and the 
rejection of all forms of discrimination are fundamental 
principles of Olympism.
The United Nations, like the Olympic Movement, 
has  ambitious  agendas  with  universal  and  converging 
principles.  Our  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and recognized that sport, because of its cross-cutting 
nature,  can  make  a  significant  contribution  to  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda.  The  Olympic 
Movement is equipped with the Olympic Agenda 2020, 
which is based on good governance and ethics. Those 
principles are essential because the Olympic Games are 
the global showcase of the Olympic ideal. In addition, 
the promotion of human rights is intrinsic to the Games.
At the ninth forum and fifth assembly of European 
athletes,  held  in  Monaco  in  October,  His  Serene 
Highness Prince Albert II stated that athletes are at the 
heart of the Olympic Movement and that their protection 
is  of  the  utmost  importance  in  the  Agenda  2020.  Let 
us  acknowledge  that  the  actions  of  the  International 
Olympic  Committee  are  of  even  greater  significance. 
The  commitment  of  the  Committee,  which  becomes 
apparent  to  the  world  every  two  years,  is  constant 
and requires all the energy and work of its President, 
members and all those who adhere to the principles of 
the Olympic Charter and embody and promote them on 
a daily basis.
Education,  health, 
inclusion,  gender  equality, 
empowerment,  tolerance  and  respect,  among  other 
things, are part of the Olympic values   that contribute to 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs).  In  February  2018,  tens  of  millions  of  people 
will turn their attention to the Republic of Korea, which 
will mark the opening of a six-year Olympic sequence 
4/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
in Asia, with subsequent Games to take place in Tokyo 
in 2020 and Beijing in 2022.
therefore enliven us in our every action at the service of 
our States and multilateralism.
The Olympic flag and the United Nations flag will 
soon be flown together again at the Pyeongchang site 
and  will  complement  the  Olympic  rings  and  torch, 
symbols  of  our  common  future.  We  strongly  believe 
in  the  power  of  sport  and  its  unique  ability  to  unite. 
That  is  why  the  draft  resolution  reflects  our  shared 
hope  that  the  Games  provide  an  opportunity,  as  its 
thirteenth  preambular  paragraph  states,  “to  foster 
an  atmosphere  of  peace,  development,  tolerance  and 
understanding on the Korean peninsula and in North-
East  Asia”.  We  look  forward  to  the  series  of  athletic 
achievements  broadcast  by  the  Olympic  Channel, 
which will send a strong positive message. In our day-
to-day life, where mistrust sometimes takes precedence 
over seeking mutual understanding, sport is a powerful 
language and promotes respect for the rules that apply 
to everyone equally.
Having come through their qualifying events, the 
athletes  will  soon  compete  under  the  motto  “Faster, 
Higher, Stronger”. They will thrill and inspire us with 
their self-denial, efforts, perseverance and the humility 
that  they  show  in  the  long  and  difficult  journey  that 
leads  them  to  the  Games.  Qualifying  for  the  Games 
represents the culmination of years of sacrifice. It also 
means undergoing a transformation from being merely 
an  athlete  into  an  Olympian,  with  the  corresponding 
responsibilities.  Being  an  Olympian  means  that  one’s 
duties go beyond just giving one’s best. The Olympians 
will be the focus of rapt attention from their countries 
and communities, and their actions and gestures will be 
open to all and analysed.
Like Olympians, we owe it to ourselves to inspire 
the young people we invoke so often in our speeches and 
deliberations on peace, conflict prevention, respect for 
human rights and the implementation of the sustainable 
development agenda. We must ensure that the Olympic 
Truce is respected. Let us ensure that the efforts of the 
Games will be an appropriate expression of our hopes 
and that they will blur our differences. Let us embrace 
the  Olympic  values  together  and  let  the  youth  of  the 
world help us build a future of peace and brotherhood.
Like  the  athletes  who  are  the  ambassadors  of 
Olympism,  we  bear  a  significant 
responsibility, 
entrusted  as  we  are  with  the  task  of  representing  our 
States in the United Nations. The Olympic spirit should 
By  making  the  motto  “Faster,  Higher,  Stronger” 
our own, we can give ourselves the means to achieve 
the  Goals  that  our  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
adopted in the 2030 Agenda faster. We will aim higher 
in our cooperation efforts. We will be stronger together 
and truly united for a better world for all of humankind. 
I  hope  that  the  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  in 
Pyeongchang  will  be  remembered  as  the  Games  of 
understanding and friendship between peoples who are 
united by the power of sport.
Ms.  Velichko  (Belarus):  (spoke 
in  Russian): 
The  delegation  of  Belarus  welcomes  draft  resolution 
A/72/L.5,  of  which  Belarus  is  a  sponsor,  on  building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport.  One  of  its 
key elements is a call to Member States to observe the 
Olympic Truce under the Charter of the United Nations. 
We hope that the draft resolution will serve not only as 
a reminder of the wonderful ancient Greek tradition of 
ceasing hostilities during the Olympic Games, but also 
as a call to action for all States.
We hope that in the current context of international 
instability, the upcoming Olympic Games will facilitate 
the promotion of the value of peace, in accordance with 
the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Olympic  Charter. 
We  support  the  efforts  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  to  facilitate  the 
participation  of  teams  of  refugees  in  the  Games.  The 
development  of  physical  capability  through  sport  is  a 
key area of Belarus’s national policy.
Belarus is proud that it has earned the right to host 
an important European competition in 2019, the second 
European  Games.  We  firmly  condemn  any  attempt 
to  exploit  sport  for  political  gains.  We  advocate  for 
the  preservation  of  the  independence  and  autonomy 
of  sport,  as  well  as  the  principle  of  equality  before 
the  law  and  the  preservation  of  the  values  and  ethics 
of sport. We are confident that the draft resolution to 
be adopted today will help strengthen the role of sport 
in  promoting  peace  and  development,  strengthening 
the  principles  of  tolerance  and  respect  and  enhancing 
mutual understanding among States and peoples in the 
spirit of true Olympism based on friendship, solidarity 
and fair play without discrimination.
Mr.  Alduwaisan  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
My  country  is  pleased  to  be  participating  in  the 
17-37640
5/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
deliberations  on  this  agenda  item,  as  we  firmly 
believe in the importance of sport in solidly grounding 
societies and relations among peoples and of educating 
our  youth  well  in  that  area.  We  also  reaffirm  our 
support  for  resolution  67/296,  adopted  in  August 
2013,  in  accordance  with  which  Member  States, 
the  United  Nations  system,  relevant  international 
organizations, civil society and the public and private 
sector  should  cooperate,  observe  and  raise  awareness 
of the International Day of Sport for Development and 
Peace. We therefore reiterate the need to invest in our 
young  people,  so  as  to  build  a  better  society  through 
programmes and plans of action aimed at helping them 
to  embrace  noble  principles  and  at  combating  crime, 
extremism and corruption. Those ambitions cannot be 
realized unless we use the institutions that have been 
developed within our societies.
The language of sport and athletes has always been 
one  of  peace,  security  and  solidarity  in  confronting 
violence and extremism. In the case of two of the fiercest 
military  adversaries  in  the  First  World  War,  soccer 
brought together soldiers from both sides for a day. The 
results that we could achieve in times of peace through 
the  same  means  are  limited  only  by  our  imagination. 
Another  model  example  that  promoted  peace  across 
the African continent was aimed at combating racism 
when, through sport, the South African leader Nelson 
Mandela conveyed a message at the 1995 Rugby World 
Cup,  hosted  by  South  Africa,  in  order  to  unify  the 
children of his people and combat apartheid.
In 1894, when Coubertin re-established the modern 
Olympic  Games,  he  believed  in  the  importance  of 
sport as a form of spiritual energy and promoted that 
philosophy so as to spread love and peace among peoples 
through  the  Games.  In  that  same  vein,  he  established 
the principles of the Games, whereby participation and 
fair play, rather than winning, were to be the key goals.
The Olympic Movement brings to life the principles 
of  the  Olympic  Charter,  as  well  as  peace  and  human 
dignity,  thereby  fostering  development.  The  example 
and experience of the Olympic Games provide us with 
an opportunity to reflect on the power of sport to unite 
us, the best illustration of which is the concept of the 
Olympic Village, which brings athletes from more than 
200 States together in one place. The guiding principal 
of the Olympic ideal is that sport is synonymous with 
peace,  and  is  almost  magically  reflected  in  efforts  to 
promote peace and development.
In conclusion, within the framework of the United 
Nations  we  see  today  many  similarities  between  the 
principles  of  our  Organization  and  the  International 
Olympic  Committee  in  their  parallel  efforts  aimed 
at  promoting  peace  through  sport.  The  most  striking 
example  of  such  cooperation  and  solidarity  was  the 
support  provided  for  a  group  of  refugee  athletes  —  a 
first-of-a-kind  moment  in  the  history  of  the  Olympic 
Games — when in Rio de Janeiro more than 10 young 
athletes participated in the 2016 Games and were given 
an opportunity to move beyond war and conflicts.
Ms. Wong (Singapore): On behalf of my delegation, 
I would like to express our sincere condolences for the 
lives lost as a result of the earthquake that affected Iran 
and Iraq this past weekend. Our thoughts and prayers 
are with the victims and their loved ones.
Singapore is pleased to co-sponsor draft resolution 
A/72/L.5, entitled, “Sport for development and peace: 
building a peaceful and better world through sport and 
the  Olympic  ideal”,  under  agenda  item  11.  Singapore 
thanks the Republic of Korea for its successful efforts 
in coordinating the draft resolution, which recognizes 
the  ideals  represented  by  the  Olympic  Truce,  and  we 
look forward to its adoption by consensus in the General 
Assembly today.
The  practice  and  goal  of  perfection  in  sport 
represent a force for good in many societies. The values 
of hard work and self-discipline and the determination 
to  do  better  inspire  the  human  spirit.  Sport  brings 
together  people  of  various  origins,  creeds,  cultures 
and nationalities, and enhances mutual understanding 
through  a  spirit  of  friendship  and  fair  play.  That  is 
the  spirit  of  the  Olympic  Games,  which,  since  the 
first  modern  Olympic  Games,  in  1896,  has  not  only 
symbolized  the  pinnacle  of  achievement  in  sports, 
but  also  plays  a  crucial  role  in  bridging  communities 
and  promoting  tolerance,  social  inclusion,  peace, 
cooperation and sustainable development.
Singapore  recognizes  the  importance  of  sport 
in  everyday  life.  Nationally,  sport  can  bring  together 
diverse  groups  of  people  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity  and 
imbue  them  with  a  greater  sense  of  pride  in  their 
country. At the community level, sport helps to bring 
about  better  health  outcomes.  Our  Government  has 
therefore  actively  promoted  sports 
in  Singapore. 
ActiveSG, a national sport movement, was launched to 
encourage Singaporeans to become active by providing 
access  to  affordable  and  exciting  sports  activities 
6/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
and  programmes.  In  addition,  to  ensure  that  sport  in 
Singapore remains an inclusive activity, the disability 
sports master plan was launched in 2016 to ensure that 
persons  with  disabilities  are  able  to  participate  and 
excel in sport if they so wish. Recognizing that areas 
intended for sport are not only places for training but 
also common spaces for people to gather and connect 
with one another, we have also set up a master plan for 
sports facilities to provide greater access to a network 
of  sports  amenities  and  enable  people  to  live  better 
through sport.
We are glad to see that some of our efforts have paid 
off. At the Rio de Janeiro Paralympic Games in 2016, 
the Singapore team did us proud by achieving our best-
ever  result  of  two  gold  and  one  silver  medal,  won  by 
Paralympian swimmers Yip Pin Xiu and Theresa Goh, 
respectively.  The  year  2016  was  also  a  milestone  for 
us, as our swimmer Joseph Schooling won Singapore’s 
first  ever  Olympic  gold  medal.  Those  achievements 
show  that  success  knows  no  boundaries.  Individuals 
from any country can succeed if they put their minds to 
it and work hard for their goals.
The  benefits  of  sport  also  transcend  national 
boundaries. Sport can help to promote closer ties and 
friendships  among  neighbours  and  beyond.  As  part 
of our ongoing contributions to sporting events in the 
region,  Singapore  hosted  the  twenty-eighth  Southeast 
Asian Games and the eighth Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  Para  Games  in  2015.  Our 
athletes participated actively in the recent twenty-ninth 
Southeast Asian Games and ninth ASEAN Para Games, 
held  in  Kuala  Lumpur.  We  are  glad  to  see  the  many 
transnational friendships and inspiring personal stories 
of athletes that emerged during those events. We look 
forward to supporting and participating in the series of 
successive Olympic and Paralympic Games to be held 
in  North-East  Asia,  and  hope  that  they  will  serve  as 
avenues to promote peace, dialogue and reconciliation.
Just  as  Baron  de  Coubertin,  the  creator  of  the 
modern Olympic Games, once said,
“[t]he most important thing in the Olympic Games 
is not to win but to take part. The essential thing is 
not to have conquered but to have fought well”.
Sport inspires a nobler human spirit and is an enabler 
of  individuals  and  communities.  The  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  has  recognized  the  role 
of  sport  in  the  realization  of  development  and  peace 
and  in  the  promotion  of  tolerance,  respect  and  the 
empowerment of women and young people, as well as its 
many contributions to health, education and our goals 
of social inclusion. Let us continue to uphold the spirit 
of  the  Olympic  Truce  and  aim  to  build  a  sustainable, 
inclusive and prosperous future for our peoples.
Ms.  Mohamed  Didi  (Maldives):  The  Olympic 
Movement  is  a  celebration  of  humankind  and  human 
values.  Sport  has  the  power  to  inspire  and  energize 
human development, and the Olympic ideal has helped 
to create equality and a level-playing field to bring out 
the best in humankind. The Maldives is proud to be an 
active participant in the Olympic Movement. Maldivian 
athletes took the great leap forward by participating in 
the Olympic Games for the first time in 1988. It was truly 
a  once-in-a-lifetime  moment,  not  only  for  those  who 
participated,  but  for  future  generations  of  youth  who 
were inspired by the ideals of the Olympic Movement to 
build a peaceful and better world through sport.
The  Olympic  Movement  has  an  extraordinary 
ability  to  give  hope  and  renew  aspirations  precisely 
when  one  is  faced  with  difficult  challenges.  The 
participation  of  an  Olympic  team  of  refugees  during 
the  2016  Summer  Olympics  Games  in  Rio  de  Janeiro 
made  history  and  gave  optimism,  courage  and  faith 
to  millions  of  refugees  around  the  world.  Not  only 
did  those  athletes  help  foster  hope  for  millions  of 
people  facing  unimaginable  barriers  in  reaching  their 
aspirations, it showed the world that through sport no 
barrier is insurmountable.
transcend  boundaries.  The  President  of 
My  delegation  commends  that  initiative,  which 
reflects  the  human  connections  among  communities 
that 
the 
Maldives,  Mr.  Abdulla  Yameen  Abdul  Gayoom,  has 
prioritized  youth  development  and  empowerment 
through opportunities that will unleash their creativity 
and enable them to realize their full potential. That will 
allow them to aim higher, dream bigger and dream new 
dreams. Sport development is, of course, a significant 
component of youth development. The Maldives enacted 
its  first  sport  bill  in  September  2015.  The  legislation 
aims  to  assist  in  the  promotion  of  competitive  sports 
and cultural activities at the international, national and 
local  levels.  It  also  outlines  policies  and  guidelines 
for  facilitating  sports  development  with  community-
level participation.
The  Maldives  recognizes  the  important  role  that 
sport  plays  in  peace  and  security.  That  is  why  we 
pioneered  the  implementation  of  Security  Council 
17-37640
7/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
resolution  2250  (2015),  on  improving  programmes 
for  youth.  The  Ministry  of  Youth  and  Sport  of  the 
Maldives,  in  collaboration  with  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  in  the  Maldives,  held  an 
official  ceremony  in  the  Maldives  in  August  2016  to 
launch the implementation of the resolution, becoming 
the first country to do so in the Asia-Pacific region.
The  Government  of  the  Maldives  continues  to 
make  significant  investments  in  sport  infrastructure. 
Such projects are designed for young people to develop 
their  leadership  skills  and  to  provide  them  with 
support  networks  outside  their  homes.  We  have  also 
successfully conducted sport festivals that aim to create 
peace  and  harmony  within  society.  The  Government 
promotes  the  inclusion  of  women  by  giving  them 
greater opportunities, and has been encouraging female 
participation  in  sport  so  as  to  challenge  traditional 
gender stereotypes.
in 
to  be  active  citizens 
It will be vital to empower our growing populations 
of  young  people 
their 
communities, where they can foster economic and social 
progress. Sport programmes, coordinated by the United 
Nations,  Government  agencies  and  non-governmental 
organizations, have been found to facilitate sustainable 
development  and  peaceful  coexistence.  It  is  therefore 
encouraging  to  see  the  role  of  sport  in  peace  and 
development reflected in all of the 17 goals in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, and to see that in 
action in countries around the world.
One  of  the  most  important  and  enduring  lessons 
sport  offers  is  building  resilience  even  in  the  face  of 
enormous  challenges.  Sport  is  not  a  panacea  for  all 
societal problems, nor can it resolve all global conflicts. 
Nonetheless,  for  those  who  have  lost  their  way,  sport 
can  provide  a  sense  of  purpose,  joy  amid  sorrow  and 
hope in the face of despair.
Ms.  Fisher-tsin 
(Israel):  We  welcome 
the 
upcoming  adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.5, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport and the Olympic ideal”, of which Israel is proud 
to be a sponsor.
Sport and peace are intertwined. Sport encourages 
teamwork, which extends well beyond the field, teaches 
tolerance, which extends beyond the court, and builds 
friendships that last far longer than those crucial final 
seconds of overtime. Israel believes that sport is a key 
ingredient in coexistence and goodwill. Sport is crucial 
for rebinding communities. It builds inclusive societies 
and empowers young people, women and persons with 
disabilities to achieve what they are capable of. Sport 
lays the groundwork for peace and prosperity for all.
As  a  country  in  a  conflict-ridden  region,  Israel 
makes a point of ensuring that all young people learn to 
play on the same team. Mifalot Chinuch is an initiative 
founded  by  Hapoel  Tel  Aviv,  one  of  Israel’s  biggest 
football  clubs.  Its  goal  is  to  see  football  not  just  as  a 
game but rather as a great uniting force — a universal 
language  and  a  common  shared  culture.  Mifalot 
Chinuch programmes provide an effective platform for 
building bridges between Israelis and Palestinians, and 
for  seeing  each  other  as  teammates,  not  as  the  other. 
Through  teamwork,  the  hope  for  peace  grows,  one 
scored goal at a time.
That  educational  model  has  extended  beyond 
the  borders  of  Israel  to  local  communities  across  the 
world, including in Cambodia, Rwanda, Jordan, Haiti 
and  India.  In  Cambodia,  Mifalot  Chinuch  established 
a  programme  for  the  empowerment  of  young  women 
through sport entitled Levelling the Playing Field. Once 
again,  through  sport,  girls  gain  the  confidence  and 
training to become tomorrow’s agents of change, achieve 
gender equality and give back to their communities.
Mifalot  Chinuch  is  just  one  example  of  the 
remarkable  ability  of  sport  to  build  peace.  This  past 
May, Israel spearheaded a local sport-for-peace effort in 
Nigeria entitled “Israel Cares Kids’ Football League.” 
The  initiative  targeted  children  aged  8  to  12  who 
had  been  displaced  from  their  homes  by  the  terrorist 
organization  Boko  Haram.  Israel  provided  uniforms, 
balls and coaches for the programme, giving over 200 
children an outlet that provided trust, safety and calm. 
Their participation in sport offers a sense of belonging 
and a new group of friends, while also restoring hope 
for peace.
Sport should be used as a tool to unite, not divide. 
It should be used to create inclusion, not exclusion or 
politicization.  The  lessons  of  sport  have  the  power  to 
throw  a  wrench  into  the  seemingly  endless  cycle  of 
conflict around our world. By giving every man, woman 
and child full and equal access to sport, we grow closer 
to a peaceful future for all.
Mr.  Sharifuddin  (Brunei  Darussalam):  Brunei 
Darussalam  fully  supports 
the  discussions  under 
today’s agenda item. We are also pleased to once again 
be a sponsor of draft resolution A/72/L.5.
8/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
We  join  others  today  in  giving  due  recognition 
to  the  role  that  sport  plays  in  development  and  peace 
and in advancing social progress. We are pleased that 
that  is  enshrined  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  specifically  in  its  paragraph  37,  which 
recognizes sport as an important enabler of sustainable 
development  that  promotes  tolerance  and  respect  and 
contributes  to  the  empowerment  of  women,  young 
people,  individuals  and  communities,  as  well  as  to 
education and social inclusion objectives.
We  believe  that  sport  is  a  powerful  tool  in  the 
promotion  and  advancement  of  peace  and  harmony. 
That  is  evident,  as  sport  leads  to  healthier  lifestyles, 
more interaction, friendship and community-building.
We should especially encourage our young people to 
participate in sport programmes, events and exchanges, 
which can promote mutual trust and respect, tolerance 
and  a  greater  appreciation  of  other  cultures  and  ways 
of life, and can also forge lasting bonds of friendship. 
Instilling  such  shared  values  and  ideals  is  important 
to  young  people’s  development.  Sport  can  also  act  as 
a positive outlet for countering the various challenges 
that many of our youth face today, such as drug abuse, 
violent extremism and high levels of unemployment.
Brunei  Darussalam  continues 
to  emphasize 
the  positive  contribution  of  sport  to  socioeconomic 
development. Under our national policy, sport is a means 
of enhancing the quality of life and building a healthy 
nation.  It  also  goes  hand  in  hand  with  our  National 
Vision  2035,  which  aspires  to  create  a  well-educated 
and highly skilled society with an improved quality of 
life, as well as a dynamic and sustainable economy.
The development of sport remains a high priority for 
the Government of Brunei Darussalam, and significant 
investment  has  been  made  to  provide  sport  with 
adequate  recreational  infrastructure  so  as  to  promote 
the creation of a healthy and active community.
Integral 
to 
is 
that 
endeavour 
inclusive, 
multi-stakeholder  collaboration  between  the  public 
and private sectors, as well as among national sporting 
bodies. One such project is the My Happy City initiative, 
whereby every Sunday the capital city is designated as a 
car-free zone for people to engage in sporting activities 
such as cycling, running and aerobics. It brings together 
sport enthusiasts of all ages and abilities, irrespective 
of their social background or economic status. Not only 
has the initiative contributed to reviving our capital as a 
centre for community, sporting, commercial and tourist 
activities, it has also promoted healthy lifestyles and a 
sporting culture among the people. That is in line with 
the vision for world health of the Director-General of 
the World Health Organization.
At  the  same  time,  while  recognizing  sport’s 
contributions  to  the  empowerment  of  people,  we  are 
also taking steps to train and develop quality athletes, 
including women and persons with disabilities, who can 
compete at the local, regional and international levels. 
Our participation in various regional and international 
sporting  events,  such  as  the  Olympic  Games,  the 
Commonwealth Games, the Islamic Solidarity Games, 
the Asian Games and the Southeast Asian Games, has 
helped  our  athletes  strive  for  excellence  and  bring 
sporting achievements and recognition to our country. 
Moreover,  such  participation  has  enabled  our  athletes 
to  foster  friendships  with  other  athletes,  thereby 
promoting better understanding, respect and tolerance 
of other cultures. All of those are values that contribute 
to peace.
In  conclusion,  Brunei  Darussalam 
is  firmly 
committed  to  working  with  other  Member  States  and 
related regional and international bodies in advancing 
sport,  particularly  as  such  activities  contribute  to  the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Ms. Al-Abdulla (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I should 
like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening  today’s 
meeting under agenda item 11.
We align ourselves with the statements delivered by 
the sponsors of draft resolution A/72/L.5, on building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideals.
The draft resolution reflects Qatar’s conviction that 
sport has the power to strengthen education, sustainable 
development,  peace,  cooperation  and  solidarity  at  all 
levels. By fostering peace and reflecting and embodying 
the  role  of  sport,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  also  highlights  sport  as  a  means  of 
achieving sustainable development. Given the fact that 
sport plays a role in encouraging tolerance, respect and 
the  empowerment  of  women  and  individuals,  Qatar 
accords particular importance to sport at the national, 
regional and international levels. We have successfully 
hosted a number of sporting events, such as the Asian 
Games  in  2006.  The  Ministry  of  Culture,  Arts  and 
Heritage  considers  that  sport  can  be  used  in  order  to 
develop peace. We also hope to host the International 
17-37640
9/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
Football  Federation  World  Cup  in  2022,  which  would 
be the first time that our region hosted such an event.
I  would  like  to  point  out  the  key  role  that  our 
Ministry  of  Culture,  Arts  and  Heritage  has  played  in 
preparing  Qatar  to  host  the  World  Cup  through  the 
promotion  of  peace  and  mutual  understanding,  based 
on  the  fundamental  principle  of  the  role  that  sport 
plays  in  strengthening  dialogue  among  peoples  and 
cultures  and  in  promoting  peace  and  development. 
Sport also helps Qatar build towards its national vision 
for 2030 and create a strong, healthy society, serving to 
strengthen relations among the citizens of the country. 
We have always supported the role that sport plays, and 
we celebrate National Sports Day as a national holiday.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight 
the  efforts  of  the  Ministry  of  Youth  and  Sports  to 
promote sports and the excellence of sports across the 
country. We also commend the additional efforts of the 
Qatar Olympic Committee to facilitate the development 
of sport. We have in place a number of programmes and 
initiatives that strive for the same objective across all 
levels. Through the Qatar Olympic Committee, we have 
also  provided  significant  assistance  to  communities 
that are in need due to various difficult circumstances 
across various areas of the world.
Mr.  Hoshino  (Japan):  Sport  has  the  power  to 
nurture  dreams  and  bring  hope  to  people.  It  has  the 
power  to  change  the  world,  and  even  the  future  of 
humankind.  In  the  spirit  of  peace,  I  hope  that  the 
international community will once again come together 
to adopt this important draft resolution on the Olympic 
Truce (A/72/L.5), as it has done every year since 1993.
Japan  appreciates  the  initiative  and  leadership  of 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  host  of  next  year’s  Winter 
Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games,  in  submitting  this 
year’s draft resolution. As a sponsor, Japan would like 
to  highlight  the  importance  of  the  independence  and 
autonomy of sport and of ensuring that the Olympic and 
Paralympic Games should be organized in the spirit of 
peace, mutual understanding, friendship, tolerance and 
the  inadmissibility  of  discrimination  of  any  kind.  We 
are  grateful  that  those  fundamental  principles,  drawn 
from  the  Olympic  Charter,  are  reflected  in  the  draft 
resolution. Japan firmly believes that next year’s games 
in Pyeongchang will realize those ideals and objectives.
Japan  will  be  next  to  host  the  Olympic  and 
Paralympic  Games,  in  Tokyo  in  2020.  We  want 
the  Tokyo  2020  Games  to  realize  the  three  ideals 
of  achieving  personal  best,  unity  in  diversity  and 
connecting  to  tomorrow.  Based  on  the  concept  of 
achieving one’s personal best, the Tokyo 2020 Games 
will  aim  to  deliver  an  event  where  all  athletes  can 
realize their greatest athletic performance and achieve 
their personal best. Unity in diversity acknowledges the 
importance of accepting and respecting differences so 
that  peace  can  be  maintained  and  society  continue  to 
develop and flourish. As for the concept of connecting 
to tomorrow, I would like to recall that the Tokyo 1964 
Games were a major factor in Japan’s rapid economic 
growth at the time.
We  hope  that  the  Tokyo  2020  Games  will  enable 
Japan  to  promote  transformative  changes  that  can 
provide  an  opportunity  to  bring  hopes  and  dreams  to 
the areas affected by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami 
disaster. We believe that showing the world the affected 
region’s recovery and reconstruction will be a way of 
expressing Japan’s gratitude to all those who have helped 
us in efforts that continue to this day. In that regard, the 
Government of Japan is promoting exchanges between 
the affected areas and the world.
Since 2014, in the lead-up to 2020, the Government 
of  Japan  has  been  steadily  implementing  various 
projects  under  the  programme  “Sport  for  Tomorrow”, 
while  recognizing  that  sport  enables  societal  and 
economic development. The programme aims to reach 
over  10  million  people  in  more  than  100  countries. 
More  specifically,  we  are  implementing  such  projects 
as sending coaches and athletes abroad or inviting them 
to  Japan  and  providing  sports  facilities.  We  believe 
that  such  projects  contribute  to  the  realization  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
In  conclusion,  Japan  will  continue  working  to 
promote  the  sport  so  that  the  2018  Pyeongchang 
Games  will  be  a  success,  not  only  in  terms  of  the 
Games themselves but also in building a spirit of peace 
throughout the world. I would like to assure the General 
Assembly that the Tokyo 2020 Games will do the same.
Ms. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
My delegation would like to reiterate Cuba’s continued 
support  for  the  international  community’s  efforts  to 
promote  sport  as  a  means  of  fostering  development, 
peace and social inclusion. That is why we have decided 
to  sponsor  the  draft  resolution  introduced  by  the 
Republic of Korea under this agenda item (A/72/L.5).
The  widespread  practice  of  sport  as  a  right  to  be 
enjoyed by all is one of the major achievements of the 
10/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
Cuban  Revolution  in  terms  of  human  rights.  Sport, 
physical  education  and  sport-related 
recreational 
activities  reach  every  corner  of  our  country,  and 
universal access is guaranteed for young and old alike, 
including programmes for special-education centres and 
the disabled. Cuba has trained a considerable number 
of specialized physical-education teachers responsible 
for  implementing  our  physical  culture  and  health 
development strategy in all communities in the country, 
which has benefited all children and adolescents, young 
people,  women  —  including  pregnant  women  —  and 
the elderly.
Cuba  also  has  a  network  of  sports  facilities  with 
services  in  all  municipalities  to  foster  and  encourage 
the practice of sport. Each province in the country has a 
school of physical culture, from which mid- and higher-
level professionals in the field graduate each year. The 
achievements in this sector are further complemented 
by  our  specialized  centres  for  training  athletes  and 
a  robust  sports-medicine  system,  which  includes  a 
modern  anti-doping  laboratory  recognized  by  the 
International  Olympic  Committee,  affirming  Cuba’s 
commitment to fighting that scourge.
Despite being a small developing country, over the 
past  58  years  Cuba  has  achieved  sustained  successes 
in  sport  at  the  regional  and  global  levels.  We  are  the 
one hundred and sixth largest country in the world in 
terms of surface area, and eighty-second by population. 
However, in terms of sport we rank first in the Central 
American  and  Caribbean  region,  second 
the 
Americas  and,  on  average,  eighteenth  at  the  Olympic 
level, among more than 200 other countries.
in 
Cuba’s  worldwide  solidarity  with  coaches  and 
physical-education  teachers  also  enhance  the  prestige 
of  Cuban  sport.  True  to  its  internationalist  vocation, 
Cuba  has  offered  to  cooperate  in  the  development  of 
sport in many countries, and we will continue to do so 
to the best of our ability.
All the achievements I mentioned have been possible 
thanks to the political will of our Government and the 
active participation of our people, despite the obstacles 
imposed by the criminal blockade imposed against my 
country,  which  has  caused  serious  restrictions  on  the 
development of sport.
Finally,  Cuba  reiterates  its  firm  commitment  to 
the  promotion  of  sport  as  a  vehicle  for  the  promotion 
of  peace,  the  building  of  fairer  and  more  supportive 
societies and the making of a better world for present 
and future generations.
Mrs. Theofili (Greece): Dating back to the eighth 
century  before  the  common  era,  the  ancient  Olympic 
Games  were  a  force  for  peace  and  solidarity  among 
ancient Greek city-States, which would declare a truce 
for  a  period  of  seven  days  before  the  beginning  and 
after the end of the Games. The ultimate goal was the 
peaceful conduct of the Games, which was ensured by 
protecting  the  host  city  from  invasion  and  ordering 
individuals  and  State  authorities  to  refrain  from 
interfering  with  the  safe  passage  of  the  athletes.  As 
Thucydides wrote, when States violated the truce, their 
athletes were banned from participating in the Games.
The  concept  of  the  Olympic  Truce  was  born 
in  antiquity  and  was  respected  and  followed  for  a 
period of 1,200 years. The Greeks viewed the Games 
as  an  opportunity  to  replace  conflict  with  friendly 
competition.  However,  the  truce  ideal  was  also  of 
great importance in the revival of the Olympic Games 
in the modern era as an invaluable tool for advancing 
international cooperation and promote world peace.
In  today’s  world,  an  emphasis  on  Olympic  peace 
has  become  a  major  feature  of  modern  Olympic 
ideology. The foundation of the International Olympic 
Truce Centre, for the creation of which Greece actively 
engaged  with  the  International  Olympic  Committee, 
gave  the  pursuit  of  peace  a  new  dynamism.  Most 
importantly, the inclusion of the Olympic Truce in the 
United  Nations  framework  through  the  adoption  of 
relevant resolutions granted a distinct role to the ideal. 
We should bear in mind that, in a world of differences, 
inequalities  and  conflicts,  engagement  in  even  a 
temporary truce is an achievement for the international 
community. It is therefore our responsibility to continue 
to  promote  the  Olympic  Truce  and  spare  no  effort  to 
ensure its actual implementation.
In  2018,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will  host  the 
Pyeongchang Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games. 
I take this opportunity to wish the Republic of Korea 
every  success  in  this  demanding  endeavour.  For  the 
rest  of  us,  it  is  our  task  to  fulfil  our  responsibilities 
by  observing  the  Olympic  Truce  and  thereby  making 
peace an attainable goal. We should all find inspiration 
in next year’s Olympic Games and reflect on how sport 
could  be  used  as  a  useful  tool  to  reduce  tensions  and 
build bridges.
17-37640
11/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
Mr. Prasad (India): India welcomes the adoption of 
draft resolution A/72/L.5, entitled “Building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, 
which  is  in  keeping  with  the  affirmation  of  Heads  of 
State  and  Government  in  the  Declaration  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  that  sport  is  an 
important enabler of sustainable development.
If  sustainable  development  is  about  promoting 
a  range  of  economic,  social  and  community-based 
outcomes  to  build  sustainable  societies,  the  value  of 
sport  as  a  means  of  bringing  children,  and  therefore 
their  parents,  and  young  people  together  to  cooperate 
and  participate  in  tackling  common  issues  cannot  be 
questioned.  This  is  in  addition  to  its  direct  value  in 
promoting  the  health  of  children  and  young  adults, 
which itself is a key element of development.
In  that  context,  India  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  for  the  work  over  the  past  decade  of  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace  and  for  the  valuable  contribution  of  the  Group 
of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace.  The 
designation of 6 April as International Day of Sport for 
Development and Peace has been an important marker 
for emphasizing the relevance of sport to development 
and peace.
The  spread  of  the  Olympic  movement  and  its 
popularity,  as  well  as  the  immense  following  and 
popularity  of  national  and  world  championships  of 
major  sports,  such  as  soccer,  basketball,  cricket, 
hockey and tennis, highlight their role as celebrations 
of  global  goodwill.  The  stories  of  many  sports 
superstars who have risen from poverty and destitution 
are  powerful  messages  of  hope  and  happiness  to 
millions of young people in the world. In turn, sports 
stars  can  become  valuable  messengers  by  spreading 
development messages.
As the national sport of India that reaches millions 
of people in cities, towns and villages in the country, 
cricket and its stars provide a very important platform 
for  spreading  social  messages.  The  greatest  icon  of 
Indian  cricket,  Sachin  Tendulkar,  illustrates  this  fact. 
Tendulkar  was  part  of  a  popular  national  campaign 
to  promote  hygiene  among  children  that  encouraged 
schoolchildren to wash their hands before eating food. 
Similarly, he has recently been a brand ambassador for 
India’s Swachh Bharat, or Clean India, campaign.
Another  Government  initiative  that  has  advanced 
social and educational development in backward areas 
has been the system of sports hostels spread across the 
country.  These  are  residential  sports  schools,  created 
to  take  advantage  of  location-specific  sports  talent. 
Sports hostels in eastern India, particularly in the states 
of Bihar and Jharkhand, have provided an educational 
platform  for  young  girls  from  tribal  areas  in  the  two 
states. This opportunity has paid dividends not only for 
the young women themselves but also for India. Today, 
India’s  junior  and  senior  women’s  hockey  teams  are 
dominated  by  players  who  have  emerged  from  those 
tribal areas.
Sport’s  capacity  for  making  a  positive  impact  on 
peace and security is vividly illustrated by UNICEF’s 
Sports  for  Development  programme  in  the  Sukma 
district  of  the  leftist  insurgency-affected  Indian  state 
of  Chhattisgarh,  where  Naxalism,  the  local  leftist 
insurgency,  had  become  a  very  serious  problem.  The 
UNICEF programme, initiated in 2006—2007, was an 
effort to address issues arising from the civil strife in 
the region, particularly with regard to children affected 
by  violence  and  displacement.  Implemented  through 
khel  mitras,  or  sports  mentors,  those  mentors  used 
sports and games to connect with children so as to help 
them to deal with the violence and resulting trauma and 
encourage  them  to  continue  going  to  school.  This,  in 
turn, provided the window for bringing key messages 
to the children and their parents on development issues 
and  lifestyle  changes.  The  programme’s  success  has 
seen its expansion across primary schools in the state 
of Chhattisgarh.
I would also like to mention two innovative sport-
for-development programmes run by non-governmental 
institutions  in  India,  which  highlight  the  potential  of 
sports  as  a  community  builder  and  contributor  to 
development  initiatives.  The  first  is  Project  KHEL, 
a  programme  that  uses  sport  as  a  platform  to  help 
children  from  disadvantaged  backgrounds  to  grow 
into responsible and contributing members of society. 
Working from Lucknow, a major city in central India, 
Project  KHEL  works  with  orphans,  street  children, 
children of migrant labourers and children from slums 
in  a  four-month-long  biweekly  sports  and  games 
programme,  which  focuses  on  building  a  personal 
sense  of  worth  in  the  children  and  on  teaching  them 
problem-solving skills. Specific sessions also focus on 
issues such as health, substance abuse, a civic sense and 
personal  hygiene.  Today,  the  organization  is  working 
with 10 partner institutions and two slum locations in 
the city.
12/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
A  similar  programme  in  the  western  metropolis 
of  Mumbai  is  the  OSCAR  Foundation,  which  uses 
football  —  soccer  —  to  teach  the  value  of  education 
and life skills to underprivileged children. The specific 
objective  of  the  programme  is  to  support  children 
and  young  people  in  continuing  in  school.  OSCAR’s 
young  leaders  work  as  role  models  and  mentors  for 
these children.
While  organized  sport  is  today  a  major  source  of 
entertainment in the world and an industry on its own, 
the  challenge  of  extending  the  pleasures  of  sport  and 
its  benefits  to  millions  of  young  children  in  the  less 
developed  and  developing  worlds  should  remain  an 
important  objective.  India  therefore  sees  sport  as  an 
important  building  block  in  creating  a  peaceful  and 
better  world  and  will  be  supportive  of  all  efforts  to 
spread the message of sports and development.
Mrs.  Matar  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  would  first  like  to  thank  the  Republic  of 
Korea for having submitted draft resolution A/72/L.5, 
which  seeks  to  build  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through sport and the Olympic ideal. It is my pleasure 
to  underscore  the  fact  that  Bahrain  will  support  the 
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  out  of  the  conviction 
that sport should be used to achieve development and 
to promote sustainable development, peace, education, 
cooperation and health.
The capacity and potential of sport to cross borders 
and transcend language means that it is a good way to 
help settle conflicts and strengthen sustainable peace. 
Sport  is  a  universal  phenomenon  that  brings  people 
together and can help to build strong partnerships in a 
world that is increasingly unified. This is the truth. We 
must therefore protect that unity by standing together 
against hate, violence and extremism. In this regard, I 
wish to underscore the importance of making sure that 
sport serves development and peace and that it can be 
used to counter all forms of discrimination and hatred.
With  support  from  the  King  of  Bahrain,  we 
are  particularly  eager  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  believe  that  sport  can  play 
an  important  role  in  implementing  these  overarching 
goals, since it can help to strengthen unity and peace. It 
is for this reason that 7 February is National Sports Day 
in Bahrain, dedicated to upholding the noble Olympic 
ideals  and  promoting  and  practicing  sport.  It  is  our 
deep  conviction  that  sport  can  be  used  to  strengthen 
and uphold human rights, as well as to reinforce global 
respect for its values.
We  believe  that  the  active  participation  of  people 
with special needs is one way that we can achieve equal 
rights. We therefore want to fully support athletes with 
special needs to participate in events geared especially 
to them, for example, basketball.
We have been able to carry out activities related to 
sport in many areas under the auspices of our Ministry of 
Youth and Sports and the Bahrain Olympic Committee, 
which is part of the comprehensive efforts of Bahrain’s 
Deputy Prime Minister. We have been able to deliver 
on  all  of  those  ideals  through  active  participation  in 
sporting competitions at the regional and international 
levels, which includes the participation of women and 
disabled individuals.
In  conclusion,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  wishes  to 
underscore  the  importance  of  sport  and  its  important 
role in achieving sustainable development, respect for 
all, the empowerment of women and the promotion of 
health, education and social integration and inclusion.
Mr.  Louati  (Tunisia):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to express my sincere thanks to the Permanent Mission 
of  the  Republic  of  Korea  for  its  commendable  and 
successful efforts aimed at facilitating draft resolution 
A/72/L.5,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  Tunisia 
welcomes  the  forthcoming  adoption  of  this  important 
draft  resolution,  which  is  a  testament  to  the  crucial 
role of sport in achieving peace and development. My 
delegation  has  been  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution 
since the beginning of the process.
I would liek to recall that Tunisia and Monaco, as 
Chairs of the Group of Friends of Sport for Development 
and  Peace,  are  committed  to  promoting  all  initiatives 
that support the role of sport in building a better word 
for  humankind.  Furthermore,  at  the  national  level, 
the  promotion  of  sport  is  an  important  component  of 
Tunisian development policy.
As  we  struggle  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  it  is  our  strong  belief 
that  sport  is  an  effective  way  to  help  to  realize  the 
Sustainable Development Goals, particularly regarding 
the promotion of education, health, women and youth 
empowerment,  social  inclusion  and  peace.  In  this 
regard,  let  me  recall  that  sport  is  recognized  as  an 
important  enabler  for  sustainable  development  in 
17-37640
13/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
the  2030  Agenda,  particularly  through  its  growing 
contribution  to  the  realization  of  development  and 
peace,  its  promotion  of  tolerance  and  respect  and  the 
contribution  it  makes  to  the  empowerment  of  women 
and  young  people,  individuals  and  communities.  It 
also  contributes  to  the  2030  Agenda’s  objectives  in 
relation  to  health,  education  and  social  inclusion.  We 
are  all  aware  of  the  power  of  sport  as  an  important 
enabler of tolerance and understanding among peoples 
and nations.
Recognizing  the  essential  nature  of  the  Olympic 
Truce ideal in fostering peace, Tunisia underscores the 
importance  of  cooperation  among  Members  States  in 
implementing  the  draft  resolution  so  as  to  realize  the 
values of the Olympic Truce around the world. I would 
also like to acknowledge the valuable contribution of the 
International Olympic Committee and the International 
Paralympic Committee to the promotion of peace and 
human  understanding  through  sport  and  the  Olympic 
ideal,  which  also  contributes  to  the  fulfilment  of  the 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  Finally,  I  take  this 
opportunity to wish the Republic of Korea every success 
in  organizing  the  upcoming  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Winter Games in 2018.
The President: In accordance with resolution 64/3, 
of 19 October 2009, I now call on the President of the 
International Olympic Committee.
Mr.  Bach  (International  Olympic  Committee):  I 
am grateful for this opportunity to address the General 
Assembly  once  again.  Today  is  an  important  time  to 
reaffirm the values on which both the United Nations and 
the International Olympic Committee (IOC) are built. 
I would like to very warmly thank you, Mr. President, 
for having emphasized these shared values in such an 
impressive way earlier this morning.
I would also like to thank the Government of the 
Republic  of  Korea  for  submitting  the  Olympic  Truce 
draft resolution (A/72/L.5) ahead of the 2018 Olympic 
Winter Games to be held in Pyeongchang. I thank the 
Chairs of the Group of Friends of Sport for Development 
and Peace, Monaco and Tunisia, for all their efforts in 
this  process.  My  gratitude  also  extends  to  the  many 
Member States that have already shown their support 
for the draft resolution as sponsors.
The shared goal of the United Nations and the IOC 
is to make the world a better and more peaceful place. 
For the IOC, this means putting sport at the service of 
the peaceful development of humankind. The Olympic 
Truce draft resolution before the Assembly today is an 
expression of the shared commitment to humankind of 
both our organizations.
In  ancient  Greece,  the  tradition  of  ekecheiria
involved a sacred truce among Greek city-States. The 
Olympic  Truce  ensured  a  halt  of  hostilities,  allowing 
for  the  safe  passage  and  participation  of  athletes  and 
spectators  to  the  Olympic  Games.  Then,  as  now,  the 
Olympic Games are a symbol of hope and peace. In our 
troubled times today, we see that these Olympic values 
of peace, solidarity and respect are eternal values.
The draft resolution entitled “Building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal” 
builds on that 3000-year-old tradition. Paragraph 1 of 
the draft resolution L.5 urges Member States
“to ensure the safe passage, access and participation 
of  athletes,  officials  and  all  other  accredited 
persons taking part in the Olympic Winter Games 
and Paralympic Winter Games”.
This specific call is of particular importance, especially 
with regard to the time and place of the Olympic Winter 
Games. By adopting this draft resolution, the General 
Assembly  recognizes  once  more  the  relevance  of  the 
Olympic Games to fostering peace and understanding 
in our fragile world.
Pierre  de  Coubertin,  the  founder  of  the  modern 
Olympic movement, once said: “The Olympic Games are 
a pilgrimage to the past and an act of faith in the future.” 
In the same spirit, the support of States Members of the 
United Nations for this draft resolution is an expression 
of faith by the international community in a peaceful 
future for our world. The power of the Olympic Games 
is  their  universality  and  global  appeal.  Based  on  our 
principle  of  political  neutrality,  the  Olympic  Games 
stand above and beyond all the political differences that 
divide us. In our fragile world, which is drifting apart, 
the Olympic Games have the power to unite humankind 
in all its diversity. In our fragile world, polarization and 
mistrust are growing. In our fragile world, the Olympic 
Games always build bridges. They never erect walls.
Sport plays a unique role in putting the values of 
peace, solidarity and respect into action. The important 
role of sport in society was confirmed by the General 
Assembly when recognizing sport in the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development as an important enabler, 
in particular to foster peace and understanding.
14/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
The last time that I addressed the General Assembly 
was  ahead  of  the  adoption  of  resolution  70/4,  the 
Olympic Truce resolution for the Olympic Games Rio 
2016 (see A/70/PV.39). On that occasion, I announced 
the  creation  of  the  first-ever  refugee  Olympic  team. 
Their  participation  at  the  Olympic  Games  sent  a 
message  of  hope  to  the  millions  of  refugees  around 
the world. It was a demonstration of how sport is this 
important enabler. To make this a reality, we enjoyed the 
strong cooperation of the United Nations, in particular 
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, 
whose  Office  I  would  like  to  thank  once  more  for  its 
continuing support.
Knowing  that  the  theme  of  this  seventy-second 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  “Focusing  on 
people:  striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”,  I  would  like  to  address  the 
Assembly for a moment as an Olympic athlete myself. I 
do so because, for Olympic athletes, this draft resolution 
will  carry  a  very  special  significance  and  a  deeply 
personal one. It is the dream of every athlete to compete 
at the Olympic Games. For us athletes, it is a once-in-a-
lifetime experience. It is our moment to shine.
With  the  Olympic  Truce  resolution,  the  General 
Assembly  is  creating  the  conditions  for  all  athletes 
to compete in peace. Only the States Members of the 
United Nations can guarantee athletes’ safe passage to 
the Olympic Games. They make it possible for all the 
Olympic  athletes  to  realize  their  dream  of  a  lifetime. 
One may ask why this should matter to the international 
community. The answer is simple: the Olympic athletes 
show the whole world that it is possible to compete with 
each other while living peacefully together under one 
roof at the same time.
In  the  Olympic  Village,  where  the  athletes  live 
during the competitions, we see our values of tolerance 
and  respect  come  to  life.  Athletes  from  all  National 
Olympic Committees, from every corner of the world, 
live together in harmony under one roof. The athletes 
live  side  by  side  in  what  is  literally  a  global  village. 
They  share  their  meals,  experiences  and  emotions. 
They  are  competitors  in  sport,  but  they  share  their 
respect for each other in victory and defeat. That is why 
the athletes are our best ambassadors for our ideals and 
values. The athletes lead by example. Our fragile world 
needs  such  symbols  of  friendship  and  tolerance  more 
than ever before.
My  sincere  thanks  for  their  great  work  go  to 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  to  the 
Pyeongchang  Organizing  Committee  for  the  2018 
Olympic  and  Paralympic  Winter  Games  under  the 
able leadership of President Lee Hee-beom. They have 
created  the  best  venues  and  conditions  for  the  best 
winter-sport athletes in our world. When Pyeongchang 
welcomes  the  world,  just  87  days  from  today,  it  will 
be an important reminder that the Olympic Games are 
always a time when the international community comes 
together to celebrate our shared humanity.
The  IOC  would  like  to  reiterate  our  invitation  to 
everyone to join us at the 2018 Olympic Winter Games. 
In sport, we are all equal. That is why everyone is invited 
to  celebrate  our  shared  values,  the  best  of  the  human 
spirit  and  our  unity  in  diversity.  The  2018  Olympic 
Winter Games in Pyeongchang will give us hope in our 
troubled times for a better future. The Olympic Games 
demonstrate that our values of a shared humanity are 
stronger than all the forces that want to divide us. With 
the support of the delegations here today, the Olympic 
spirit will come alive right here among the nations of 
the  world  gathered  at  the  General  Assembly.  This  is 
another example of the fact that Olympic principles are 
United Nations principles. On behalf of all the athletes 
in  the  world,  I  thank  the  Assembly  very  much  for 
sharing this Olympic spirit.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on this item.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/72/L.5, entitled “Building a peaceful and 
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
(Department 
Ms.  De  Miranda 
for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the 
draft  resolution  A/72/L.5,  and  in  addition  to  those 
delegations  listed  in  the  document,  the  following 
countries  have  also  become  sponsors:  Afghanistan, 
Algeria,  Andorra,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina, 
Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Colombia,  Cuba,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Dominica,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  the 
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, the Gambia, Georgia, 
Grenada, Guyana, Iraq, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
17-37640
15/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
Maldives,  Mali,  the  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritius,  the 
Federated States of Micronesia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  New  Zealand, 
the Niger, Nigeria, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, 
Paraguay,  the  Philippines,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra 
Leone,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  Sri  Lanka, 
South  Sudan,  Sudan,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Tajikistan, 
Timor-Leste,  Uganda,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of the 
General Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/72/L.5?
Draft resolution A/72/L.5 was adopted (resolution 
72/6).
The  President:  I  thank  our  guests  for  joining  us 
this  morning  and  once  again  express  my  best  wishes 
to  the  Republic  of  Korea  for  the  twenty-third  Winter 
Olympic Games.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 11.
Agenda items 120 and 121
Implementation of the resolutions of the 
United Nations
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
The  President:  The  agenda  item  for  our  meeting 
today  refers  to  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly.  In  simple  terms,  we  are  here  to 
explore how to strengthen the role of this body, improve 
the  work  we  do  and  best  address  the  interests  of  the 
Governments and, more importantly, the people we are 
all here to represent. This is therefore a discussion that 
affects all of us.
I want to express my sincere thanks to Ambassadors 
Drobnjak  and  Nusseibeh,  of  Croatia  and  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  respectively,  for  their  dedicated  work 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
seventy-first  session.  I  am  confident  that  all  Member 
States  will  offer  their  full  support  to  Ambassador 
Drobnjak, as well as to his newly appointed co-Chair, 
Ambassador  Mejía  Vélez  of  Colombia,  in  the  session 
ahead. I want to make four main points today.
The first is that this process does work. Over the 
past few years, we have made achievements. A major 
example is, of course, the selection and appointment of 
the  Secretary-General.  For  decades,  this  was  a  secret 
process; however, Member States said no to business as 
usual. That is why, in 2016, things were done differently. 
For  the  first  time,  the  world  had  an  opportunity  to 
review and even interact with the candidates for the top 
position at the United Nations. Member States have also 
mandated me to continue this trend of transparency and 
inclusiveness in the selection of my successor.
The introduction of an oath of office and code of 
ethics for the President of the General Assembly were 
further powerful achievements. Now, no President can 
ever  claim  that  he  or  she  is  ignorant  of  the  standards 
and  responsibility  attached  to  this  Office.  Another 
tangible  result  was  seen  through  the  adoption  of 
resolutions  that  set  clear  time  frames  for  elections. 
These have helped Member States to better prepare for 
their roles, including as members of the Economic and 
Social Council and as non-permanent members of the 
Security Council.
My second point is more personal. I am not here just 
to call for action from Member States; action is needed 
from me as well. I was the second president in history 
to take the oath of office, and I follow this oath closely 
as I work to uphold the high standards of transparency 
and  ethics  set  by  my  two  predecessors.  This  work 
has  taken  three  main  forms.  The  first  is  through  full 
disclosure related to the financing, staffing and travel 
of my Office; all such information is available on my 
website.  I  will  soon  become  the  first  President  of  the 
General Assembly to publish a summary of my financial 
disclosure statement online, which I hope will serve as 
a  concrete  measure  for  stepping  up  the  commitment 
of this Office to transparency. The second way relates 
to the activities of my Office. I publish my agenda on 
my  website  every  day.  My  spokesperson  also  gives 
daily briefings to the media. These efforts are not just 
geared towards transparency, they are also intended to 
promote awareness and interest in the activities of the 
General Assembly.
The third way is through interaction with other parts 
of the United Nations system. I intend to make full use 
of the General Committee, as requested by resolution 
71/323. I met informally with the Committee before the 
start of the regular session to allow for a frank exchange 
of views. Our third meeting of the session is scheduled 
to take place in December. Additionally, I hold monthly 
16/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
meetings with the Secretary-General and the presidents 
of  the  Security  Council  and  Economic  and  Social 
Council to strengthen coherence throughout our work. 
I want to use the opportunity presented by this meeting 
to stress my commitment to the revitalization process.
My  third  point  today  is  that  we  need  to  look 
ahead. We will discuss many important issues during 
the  seventy-second  session.  Three  issues  that  may  be 
considered  include,  first,  conduct  related  to  election 
campaigns;  secondly,  the  strengthening  of  interaction 
between Permanent Missions and the Secretariat; and 
thirdly,  options  for  establishing  a  longer-term  and 
more  transparent  rotation  of  the  Chairs  of  the  Main 
Committees. The issue of reform will also be high on 
our agenda, which will provide us with an opportunity 
to  enhance  the  General  Assembly’s  engagement  with 
and role throughout the United Nations system.
When  looking  ahead,  I  want  to  point  to  the  gap 
between the level of mandated activities and events and 
the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  support 
them. My Office is grappling with this challenge, and I 
urge the Assembly to address it. On a related note, I want 
to  highlight  the  lack  of  institutional  memory  within 
this  Office.  Investment  in  human  capital  is  needed  if 
Member States wish to maintain standards of work and 
ensure smooth transitions between presidencies.
As I have said before, action is needed from me as 
well.  I  have  launched  a  series  of  morning  dialogues, 
which  will  target  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations. These dialogues are intended to complement 
the  ongoing  processes  of 
seventy-second 
session,  such  as  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly.
the 
Finally,  I  want  to  remind  all  of  us  of  the 
responsibility on our shoulders. The General Assembly 
is the most representative body of the United Nations. It 
gives all 193 Member States a voice and a vote. It deals 
with all three pillars of the work of the United Nations: 
peace and security, development and human rights. It 
also  draws  in  all  actors  and  entities  from  across  the 
United Nations system. That is why the impact of the 
work of the General Assembly extends far beyond this 
Hall. In fact, what we do here affects the credibility and 
outcomes of the United Nations as a whole. Improving 
the way we work is therefore not only in the interest of 
all of us here today — it is also in the interest of people 
in  their  homes  and  communities,  thousands  of  miles 
away from here.
I believe that this Hall should be a place for dialogue, 
a place we should enter with ideas and proposals and 
exit  from  with  new  perspectives  and  achievements. 
This is a place where the interests of all 193 Member 
States  and  the  billions  of  people  they  represent  can 
be advanced.
The General Assembly cannot be a place to advance 
our own interests. It cannot be a place we come to with 
nothing but red lines and static positions, even if that 
might be a tempting option, because it could lead to a 
win for just one person or one State or one group. But 
overall,  we  will  all  lose.  I  urge  everyone  to  bear  that 
in mind as we discuss the revitalization of the work of 
this body.
Mr.  Boukadoum  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries  (NAM),  which  is  one  of  the  largest  cross-
regional  groups,  consisting  of  120  member  States. 
Let  me  say  that  all  ceremonial  protocol,  including 
appreciation  to  the  co-Chairs  and  to  the  President  of 
the General Assembly, is respected.
We  reiterate  that  the  revitalization  of  the  work 
of  the  General  Assembly  is  a  critical  component  of 
a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  A 
reinvigorated  General  Assembly  would  significantly 
contribute  to  strengthening  the  wider  United  Nations 
system, 
international  governance  and 
enhancing  multilateralism.  A  thorough  evaluation  of 
the status of the implementation of General Assembly 
resolutions and a clear identification of the underlying 
causes behind any lack of implementation are vital.
improving 
We  fully  adhere  to  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
consensus resolutions 69/321, 70/305 and 71/323, which 
are now the cornerstones for the evolution of the reform 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  this  regard,  the  Movement 
recalls the decision taken in paragraph 4 of resolutions 
68/307,  69/321,  70/305  and  71/323  to  continue  the 
process of the comprehensive review of the inventory 
of  the  resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  status  of  their  implementation. 
However, we also take note of the fact that the report of 
the Secretary-General contained in document A/70/681 
has not yet been implemented.
During  the  current  session  we  wish  to  emphasize 
the  following.  First,  with  respect  to  the  process  of 
selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations,  the  appointment  should  continue 
to  be  transparent,  democratic  and  inclusive  of  all 
17-37640
17/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
Member States, so as to enable the General Assembly 
to participate effectively and efficiently in the selection 
and appointment process. The Non-Aligned Movement 
proudly recalls the role played by the General Assembly 
under Article 97 of the Charter of the United Nations 
and  its  consensual  resolutions  69/321,  70/305  and 
71/323. We should not forget that the Secretary-General 
will be appointed and selected by the General Assembly 
upon the recommendation of the Security Council.
We  find  the  implementation  of  paragraph  42  of 
resolution 69/321, paragraph 36 of resolution 70/305 and 
paragraph 56 of resolution 71/323 on the organization 
of  informal  dialogues  to  be  encouraging.  While 
welcoming the signing of the joint letter by which the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council formally launch the beginning of the process, 
it  is  the  clear  understanding  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement that whatever the stage of the presentation 
of the candidates, the new procedure, as outlined in the 
joint  letter  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
and President of the Security Council, will always be 
followed.  Furthermore,  NAM  calls  on  the  Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council 
to  continue  to  hold  timely  informal  meetings  for 
an  exchange  of  views  with  candidates  presented  by 
Member States.
We  also  believe,  as  suggested  in  the  2011  report 
(A/66/34)  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  (JIU),  that 
prevailing practices in the election of executive heads 
in  other  United  Nations  system  organizations  could 
also be suitable for the appointment of the Secretary-
General. We therefore recommend considering existing 
practices. Moreover, NAM would like to emphasize the 
issue of promises made by candidates in exchange for 
the support of the permanent members of the Security 
Council, which is described in the 2011 JIU report.
In that regard, we welcomed the significant number 
of  women  candidates,  as  stipulated  in  paragraph  44 
of  resolution  71/323.  There  was  a  discussion  about 
the  desirability  for  the  Security  Council  to  consider 
providing a plural number of candidates to the General 
Assembly for the appointment of the Secretary-General 
in  future.  We  emphasize  the  need  to  re-examine  the 
idea.  We  reiterate  that  the  process  of  appointment  of 
the Secretary-General by the General Assembly should 
be  carried  out  in  full  compliance  with  the  General 
Assembly’s  mandate,  which 
timely 
submission  of  the  relevant  draft  resolution,  which 
should be preceded by wide and extensive consultations 
includes 
the 
with all Member States, as well as ensuring the action 
of the General Assembly on the recommendation of the 
Security Council, including by secret ballot, in full and 
strict conformity with rule 141 of the rules of procedure 
of the General Assembly.
We take note of the request made by the Secretariat to 
all Member States encouraging nominating candidates 
to supplement the Secretary-General’s search, in order 
to ensure a wide pool of candidates for positions at the 
level  of  Under-Secretary-General,  and  welcoming  the 
nomination of women candidates. Bearing in mind the 
importance  of  the  best  practices  and  lessons  learned 
from  the  last  selection  and  appointment  process,  the 
Non-Aligned Movement is of the view that the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the  General  Assembly  should  consider  developing  a 
compendium of those best practices for future reference.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
institutional memory of the Office of the President of 
the General Assembly, NAM finds it encouraging that 
an oath of office and a code of ethics for the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  have  been  adopted  for  the 
first  time  in  the  Assembly’s  history.  The  expansion 
of  activities  of  the  General  Assembly  has  made  the 
President’s presence and active participation essential 
all  year  long.  NAM  also  reiterates  the  need  to  assign 
additional  posts  to  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly on a permanent basis. Furthermore, 
we  also  appreciate  the  Member  States  that  have 
provided concrete support to the Office of the President 
of the General Assembly by seconding staff members 
from their respective missions.
NAM  also  attaches  great  importance  to  ensuring 
successful  annual  transitions  between  the  Presidents 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  requests  that  outgoing 
Presidents brief their successors on lessons learned and 
best practices. NAM expresses its support for effectively 
and genuinely strengthening the institutional memory 
of the Office of the President of the General Assembly, 
as well as for allocating sufficient human and financial 
resources to the Office from the regular budget of the 
United Nations.
Thirdly,  with  respect  to  the  role  and  authority  of 
the  General  Assembly,  NAM  reaffirms  that  working 
methods  are  only  one  step  towards  more  substantive 
improvements  aimed  at  restoring  and  enhancing 
the  Assembly’s  role  and  authority.  We  affirm  the 
intergovernmental, 
importance  of  preserving 
the 
18/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
inclusive and democratic nature of the United Nations 
and  of  consulting  with  Member  States  within  the 
Organization,  as  well  as  of  ensuring  strict  respect 
on  the  part  of  Member  States  for  the  Charter-based 
prerogatives  of  the  United  Nations  principal  organs, 
especially the General Assembly. We also support the 
initiative aimed at ensuring proper implementation of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  with  respect  to  the 
functional  relationship  between  its  main  organs,  in 
particular the General Assembly and the Economic and 
Social Council. At the Ad Hoc Working Group’s most 
recent  meeting,  there  was  a  discussion  of  the  need  to 
establish, within its framework, a standing mechanism 
for dialogue between the Permanent Missions and the 
Secretariat, with a view to considering further required 
steps. We look forward to continuing that discussion.
Fourthly,  on  the  working  methods  of  the  General 
Assembly,  we  welcomed  paragraph  51  of  resolution 
71/323, which notes with appreciation the cost-neutral 
proposals  on  the  possible  changes  to  the  format, 
production  and  editing  of  the  Journal  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  also  welcomed  its  paragraphs  47  and 
48,  on  communicating  the  names  of  candidates  for 
election to the Secretariat 48 hours prior to an election 
where possible, as well as printing names on the ballot 
papers, and the decision that, on the day of elections, 
the campaign materials in the General Assembly Hall 
or  the  Committee  meeting  room  should  be  limited  to 
a single page of information regarding the candidates. 
NAM  would  like  to  recall  here  that  the  General 
Assembly  has  encouraged  its  Main  Committees  to 
continue  considering  and  making  proposals  on  their 
working  methods  during  the  current  session.  In  that 
connection,  we  reiterate  the  importance  of  ensuring 
the  intergovernmental  and  inclusive  nature  of  these 
discussions  on  working  methods,  which  must  engage 
all  delegations.  We  believe  that  more  time  should  be 
dedicated  to  the  negotiations  on  this  draft  resolution. 
Resolution 71/323 was adopted by consensus. However, 
we  continue  to  insist  that  more  flexibility  should 
be  the  rule  for  all  Member  States  in  the  next  round 
of negotiations.
NAM  calls  for  measures 
to  enhance  public 
awareness  of  the  role  and  activities  of  the  General 
Assembly and encourages improved media reporting of 
its work. We welcome paragraph 15 of resolution 71/323, 
which calls on the President of the General Assembly to 
organize debates in close coordination with the General 
Committee and Member States, including with regard 
to their frequency. We believe that meetings held at the 
same time as the general debate of the General Assembly 
must be kept to an absolute minimum of only the most 
critical, in order to preserve and strengthen the sanctity 
of  the  general  debate,  a  view  reflected  in  paragraph 
34 of resolution 71/323. Similarly, where all the high-
level thematic debates convened by the President of the 
General Assembly are concerned, we need to improve 
the coordination of the revitalization process with the 
work of the Committee on Conferences.
took 
(Indonesia),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Djani 
the Chair.
We  should  also  take  a  closer  look  at  the  process 
of  arrangements  for  holding  debates  in  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council and their follow-up, 
in view of the number of participating representatives. 
No oral statement should exceed the agreed-on number 
of  minutes,  and  full  versions  can  be  circulated  in  the 
room or posted online. Organizers can make the record 
of the proceedings available. Furthermore, we propose 
holding  briefings,  as  necessary,  with  the  Chairs  of 
the  Main  Committees,  as  well  as  a  meeting  with  the 
Secretary-General.  NAM  also  calls  for  improved 
monitoring of the implementation of past resolutions.
In 
conclusion, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  contributing  effectively 
and constructively to the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly.  We  hope  for  the  same  approach  from 
other  delegations  and  would  like  to  humbly  recall 
that  we  speak  in  the  name  of  120  member  States.  In 
addition,  NAM  stands  ready  to  cooperate  with  you, 
Mr. President, the co-Chairs and the Secretary-General 
in strengthening the role of the General Assembly as the 
chief deliberative policymaking organ. We will continue 
to  provide  support  aimed  at  achieving  inclusiveness, 
transparency and efficiency in the United Nations.
Mrs.  Azucena  (Philippines):  I  have  the  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), which consists of 10 member 
States  —  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand, Viet Nam and my own 
country, the Philippines.
ASEAN would like to convey its deepest sympathies 
and  condolences  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the 
earthquakes in Iran and Iraq and in Costa Rica.
17-37640
19/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
ASEAN  also  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  just 
delivered by the representative of Algeria on behalf of 
the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
ASEAN would like to congratulate the Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Croatia  on  their  excellent  work  in  the  past  year  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
as well as the Permanent Representative of Colombia, 
the  incoming  co-Chair  together  with  the  Ambassador 
of Croatia, and commends the progress they have made, 
as reflected in resolution 71/323, adopted by consensus 
on 8 September.
ASEAN  would  also  like  to  reiterate  its  profound 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session,  for 
his  steadfast  commitment  to  moving  the  agenda  on 
revitalization forward and especially for his advocacy for 
accountability,  transparency  and  openness.  We  would 
also like to once again congratulate the President of the 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák. We believe that under his leadership the process 
of revitalization will yield more positive results.
that 
the 
believes 
ASEAN 
revitalization 
process  will  make  the  Organization  more  effective, 
transparent, inclusive and fit for purpose. In the words 
of  Secretary-General  António  Guterres,  we  have  a 
shared responsibility to make the United Nations more 
effective and responsive to those we serve. We would 
therefore like to make the following key points on the 
four thematic clusters under the revitalization process.
With regard to the role and authority of the General 
Assembly,  ASEAN  reiterates  its  call  for  all  Member 
States  to  work  together  to  ensure  that  the  General 
Assembly  is  able  to  fulfil  its  proper  role  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations.
With respect to the Assembly’s working methods, 
ASEAN  joins  Member  States  on  the  recommendation 
to  enhance  synergies  and  coherence,  reduce  overlap 
where it exists on the Assembly’s agenda, and introduce 
appropriate measures to raise public awareness of the 
Assembly’s role and activities.
Regarding  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the 
Secretary-General and other executive heads, ASEAN is 
of the view that resolution 71/323 must be implemented 
faithfully  to  ensure  that  the  selection  process  is 
transparent  and  inclusive  and  that  the  best  possible 
candidate  is  selected  for  the  position  of  Secretary-
General.  We  also  emphasize 
the  Secretary-
General must exercise independence in selecting senior 
officials  with  adherence  to  the  highest  standards  in 
such  appointments,  while  ensuring  equal  and  fair 
distribution based on gender and geographic balance.
that 
With  regard  to  strengthening  the  institutional 
memory of the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly, ASEAN stands ready to support the agenda 
and  calls  for  the  full  implementation  of  the  relevant 
provisions of resolution 71/323.
ASEAN welcomed resolution 71/323’s reaffirmation 
of the importance and benefits of interaction between 
the  United  Nations  and  international  and  regional 
forums  and  organizations  that  deal  with  matters  of 
global  concern  to  the  international  community.  We 
take note of the report to the President of the General 
Assembly on the strategic alignment of future sessions 
of  the  General  Assembly  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. ASEAN also recognizes that 
complementarities exist between the 2030 Agenda and 
ASEAN’s  Community  Vision  2025.  We  continue  to 
recognize the importance of dialogue and cooperation 
between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations  in  taking 
forward the work of enhancing such complementarities, 
as  reflected  in  the  ASEAN-United  Nations  Plan  of 
Action for the period from 2016 to 2020.
ASEAN  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  engaging 
effectively and constructively with all Member States 
in  order  to  ensure  success  for  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group in its task of revitalizing the work of the General 
Assembly. With the political will of all Member States, 
not  only  will  we  be  able  to  achieve  concrete  results, 
we  will  also  be  able  to  promote  greater  efficiency, 
transparency and accountability in the United Nations. 
Revitalizing the work of the General Assembly under 
the four thematic clusters will contribute to the strategic 
evolution of the United Nations as an important platform 
where  the  universal  values  of  equality,  tolerance  and 
human dignity prevail.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Ms. Adamson (European Union): I have the honour 
to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
20/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
this statement.
I would like to thank the President for convening 
today’s plenary meeting. We look forward to working 
with  him  on  the  negotiations  on  the  draft  resolution 
on the subject during the coming weeks. I would like 
to  thank  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  the  President  of  the 
Assembly at its seventy-first session, for his oversight 
of and engagement in the revitalization process of the 
General Assembly in the past year. I would also like to 
extend my sincere gratitude to the previous co-Chairs 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization 
of  the  Work  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Vladimir 
Drobnjak  and  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh, 
the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Croatia  and  the  United 
Arab  Emirates.  We  are  sure  their  excellent  work  will 
continue under Mr. Drobnjak’s ongoing leadership. We 
wish  him  and  the  new  co-Chair  success  for  this  year 
and would like to express our support for the upcoming 
work in the hope of continuing the significant progress 
made in the previous session.
The recent resolutions on revitalizing the General 
Assembly  have  been  groundbreaking.  New  and 
innovative  ideas  have  been  introduced,  such  as  those 
on  the  process  for  the  selection  and  appointment  of 
the Secretary-General, the strengthening of the Office 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  including 
increasing  its  accountability,  and  most  recently  the 
decision to improve the Assembly’s working methods. 
Resolutions  on  revitalizing  the  Assembly  represent  a 
success for all of us, the United Nations and Member 
States  alike,  and  serve  as  proof  of  how  much  can  be 
achieved  through  constructive,  reform-oriented  and 
consensus-based work. It is a result of the willingness 
of Member States to engage in a thorough, substantive 
debate  on  the  numerous  issues  that  are  vital  to  the 
further improvement and enrichment of the work of the 
General Assembly.
therefore  continue 
For  the  EU  and  its  member  States,  effective 
multilateralism,  with  the  United  Nations  at  its  core, 
remains  key.  We 
to  strongly 
support  the  Secretary-General  in  his  reform  efforts. 
Strengthening  the  Organization,  and  doing  so  based 
on effective and sustainable funding, in line with real 
capacities to pay and geared to increasing efficiency and 
accountability, remains a top priority. In that context, we 
remain  committed  to  revitalization  and  to  supporting 
efforts  aimed  at  strengthening  the  role  and  authority 
of  the  General  Assembly,  in  line  with  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations and the relevant resolutions. That is 
especially needed in the context of the global challenges 
that the world is facing today. An unceasing effort to 
find new and creative ways to work is essential if we 
are to achieve more effective delivery of mandates and 
the sustainable use of resources. Revitalizing the work 
of the General Assembly is clearly foundational for the 
overall reform of the United Nations.
Focusing  on  the  negotiations  ahead  of  us,  we 
believe that the emphasis on the current session’s draft 
resolution should be on consolidating the work achieved 
so far. We remain committed to contributing to improve 
the efficiency and effectiveness of the workings of the 
General Assembly. I would like to assure the Assembly 
that  the  EU  and  its  member  States  will  continue  to 
engage in a constructive manner in the proceedings of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group.
Ms. Zahir (Maldives): I would first like to thank 
Ambassadors  Vladimir  Drobnjak  of  Croatia  and 
María  Emma  Mejía  Vélez  of  Colombia  for  agreeing 
to  serve  as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of  the  General 
Assembly, and to thank Ms. Mejía Vélez’s predecessor, 
Ambassador  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
for  her  leadership  and  valuable  contribution,  together 
with Mr. Drobnjak, during the previous session of this 
ongoing process.
I would also like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his report under this agenda item. I would once again 
like to impress upon the Secretariat the importance of 
circulating such reports to the membership in a timely 
manner  so  as  to  allow  Member  States  to  be  able  to 
review  and  discuss  them  in  depth.  That  could  be  one 
of the crucial adjustments that we can make to enhance 
our working methods.
The  Maldives  applauds  the  small  but  significant 
strides  that  this  process  has  been  able  to  achieve  so 
far. During the recently concluded elections held in the 
General  Assembly  Hall,  the  campaign  materials  and 
other items were restricted to one piece per candidate. 
That  was  a  welcome  change  that  we  believe  restored 
the atmosphere in this great Hall to one reflecting the 
seriousness of the business and proper decorum.
We believe that the mandate of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group  for  the  seventy-second  session  goes  a  bit  too 
far. We support considering the potential concept and 
17-37640
21/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
scope of conduct in guiding Member States’ conduct of 
election campaigns with a view to improving standards 
of transparency, accountability and equity. We believe 
that  not  only  would  such  considerations  ensure  the 
election of the best person for the right job, they would 
also ensure that we uphold the principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations. We believe that current 
traditions  leave  small  countries  at  a  disadvantage. 
Every  country,  regardless  of  its  size  or  might  and 
certainly of how much it spends on a campaign, should 
have a fair chance to serve on the Charter bodies and 
other  entities  of  the  United  Nations.  Every  voice, 
especially those in special situations, should be heard. 
How  can  we  claim  to  have  their  concerns  answered 
without  their  representation?  We  therefore  believe 
that the same standards of transparency, fairness, and 
accountability that we expect in our domestic elections 
should be observed here at the United Nations. We hope 
that further work will be done on that issue during the 
current session.
The  whole  selection  and  appointment  process  of 
the Secretary-General, marked by unprecedented levels 
of  transparency  and  inclusiveness,  was  yet  another 
example  of  the  small  but  critical  changes  that  are 
resulting from this revitalization process. We have also 
begun to see more transparency and accountability on 
the part of the President of the General Assembly and 
the Office of the President. Such steps serve to enhance 
the  integrity  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  have  also 
seen an improvement in the conduct of meetings, with 
better management of time and services.
We believe that we can improve things even more 
by looking at the work we do. If we think about the real 
impact of the resolutions we adopt, the sad reality is that 
many  are  not  properly  implemented.  We  believe  that 
we  should  consider  the  reasons  why  resolutions  with 
actionable  mandates  are  not  executed,  as  well  as  the 
fact that it is quality, not just quantity, that determines 
success.  That  goes  hand  in  hand  with  the  bigger  and 
more  complex  area  of  the  revitalization  process  that 
we  have  only  just  begun  to  deal  with  —  aligning 
the  work  of  the  Assembly  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
The General Assembly can become more effective 
if  we  enhance  coherence  among  the  Committees  of 
the  General  Assembly  as  well  as  between  the  work 
of  the  Assembly  itself  and  that  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  the  Security  Council.  While  each 
has  its  own  mandates  and  specific  agendas,  we  have 
recognized the linkages between issues and agreed on 
the need for a holistic approach. That is the idea behind 
the  interlinkages  within  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals — that economic progress, social prosperity and 
the  protection  of  the  environment  are  linked;  peace 
and  development  are  linked;  and  the  realization  of 
human  rights  is  important  for  achieving  meaningful 
development. We must also ensure that the funds and 
programmes  under  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
the regional commissions and other subsidiary bodies 
work towards common milestones and strategic goals.
We  must  continue  the  work  already  begun.  We 
must analyse the gaps, overlaps and duplications, if any, 
and ensure that we not only have all aspects covered, 
but that this is done in a manner that will benefit the 
process the most. We cannot think of revitalization in 
silos. In order for this to work, we must honestly review 
every  part  of  our  Organization,  because  the  fast-
changing global context demands that we keep abreast 
or be seen as no longer relevant.
In considering the improvement of our work here 
in  the  General  Assembly,  we  must  ensure  that  every 
Member State in this Hall has an equal opportunity to 
contribute and be represented. The principle of equity 
must  be  the  cornerstone  of  our  work.  The  Maldives 
believes  in  the  promise  of  the  United  Nations  and  in 
the beauty of multilateralism. We are making strides, 
but we can and should do more. We should do all we 
can to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
Organization,  so  that  what  we  do  here  makes  a  real 
impact  at  home,  in  our  countries.  We  can  and  should 
examine the various ways and means by which we, the 
international  community,  can  make  a  difference  and 
play a part in crafting shared solutions for our shared 
common destiny.
Ms.  Velichko  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  All 
protocol observed. That way of addressing such aspects 
of protocol is one of the latest innovations in the list of 
agreements that resulted from the most recent session 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the Work of the General Assembly, and Belarus would 
like to see it entrenched.
Belarus  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier by the representative of Algeria on behalf of the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
Belarus  welcomes  the  appointment  of  Ms.  María 
Emma  Mejía  Vélez,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Colombia  to  the  United  Nations,  as  co-Chair  of  the 
22/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
Work  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  firmly  believe 
that  Ms.  Mejía  Vélez,  together  with  Mr.  Vladimir 
Drobnjak,  Permanent  Representative  of  Croatia,  will 
give  new  impetus  to  the  Group’s  work,  and  we  wish 
them every success.
At  the  end  of  the  Assembly’s  previous  session, 
we  agreed  to  improve  the  mechanism  for  dialogue 
between  the  Permanent  Missions  of  Member  States 
and the Secretariat, and we look forward to seeing that 
idea implemented in practice. We believe that regular 
thematic  events  based  on  that  process  will  help  to 
reduce the technical burden on Member States in their 
interactions with the Secretariat and give them timely 
information on the Secretariat’s planning of initiatives 
designed  to  streamline  its  work.  That  will  help  build 
a  system  of  predictable  and  trustworthy  interactions 
that  is  convenient  for  Member  States  as  well  as  the 
Secretariat.  We  would  like  to  note  that  some  positive 
moves  have  already  been  made  in  that  process,  with 
the  Secretariat  beginning  to  consult  with  missions 
when  it  is  taking  decisions  that  will  affect  them.  We 
also commend the efficient response of the Department 
for General Assembly and Conference Management to 
States’ requests and Under-Secretary-General Pollard’s 
personal involvement in those efforts. The initiative of 
the Department of Management in piloting a one-stop-
shopping  option  deserves  special  mention,  and  the 
opportunity for States to comment on the mechanism 
as it is being developed increases our optimism about 
its potential success.
We  are  also  eagerly  awaiting  the  roll-out  in  2018 
of a new version of the Journal of the United Nations, 
with  reorganized  content  and  a  user-friendly  digital 
interface. Member States have been asking to see this 
unique  record  of  all  the  work  that  takes  place  within 
the  United  Nations  improved,  made  responsive  to  the 
requirements of a modern digital society and published 
in all six official languages of the United Nations for 
a long time. We hope that the Department for General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management  will  follow 
the  example  of  the  Department  of  Management  and 
give  missions  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in  the 
work of developing this new product. We believe that 
only  by  combining  the  efforts  of  Member  States  and 
the  Secretariat  will  we  be  able  to  create  a  truly  user-
friendly yet informative Journal of the United Nations.
Today,  when  we  have  finished  considering  this 
agenda  item,  the  impending  election  of  five  members 
of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  should  be 
another  opportunity  to  demonstrate  our  successful 
implementation  of  ways  to  improve  United  Nations 
election  campaigns,  based  on  last  year’s  decision 
to  introduce  a  new  format  for  ballots  and  limit  the 
distribution in the General Assembly Hall of campaign 
materials about candidates, including souvenirs. These 
changes  will  unquestionably  help  Member  States  to 
stay within the bounds of protocol and avoid confusion 
in  filling  out  ballots,  which  should  have  a  positive 
effect on the outcome of elections. The next step in that 
process, as provided for in resolution 71/323, is defining 
the concept and scope of a code of conduct regulating 
Member States’ conduct of election campaigns, with a 
view  to  improving  their  transparency,  accountability 
and fairness.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  note  that  the 
effectiveness of the General Assembly’s decision-making 
depends  directly  on  its  ability  to  respond  promptly 
to  today’s  challenges  and  threats.  For  that,  we  need 
a  competent,  relevant  agenda  rather  than  the  one  we 
actually possess, which was adopted more than 70 years 
ago and has not been seriously revised since, while the 
number of items on it has ballooned. The current agenda 
includes  items  that  have  long  ago  lost  their  relevance 
and  are  simply  bumped  automatically  from  session 
to  session  with  no  discussion.  In  that  regard,  Belarus 
would like to propose that at its next meeting, the Ad 
Hoc Working Group consider streamlining the General 
Assembly’s agenda by reducing the number of items on 
it. That will save resources and time and improve the 
effectiveness  of  the  Assembly’s  decision-making  and 
our confidence in it.
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  Indonesia  would 
first  like  to  convey  its  deepest  sympathies  and 
condolences  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the 
powerful earthquakes that struck the Islamic Republic 
of Iran, Iraq and Costa Rica this weekend, as well as to 
the  Governments  and  peoples  of  those  countries,  and 
wishes the injured a speedy recovery.
While observing all protocol and congratulating the 
incoming co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the Work of the General Assembly, 
as  well  as  assuring  them  of  our  full  cooperation  and 
support,  Indonesia  reiterates  that  it  will  continue  to 
contribute actively to revitalizing the Assembly.
Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made earlier by the representatives of Algeria, on behalf 
17-37640
23/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  and  the 
Philippines, on behalf of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations.
Our shared global challenges require a comprehensive 
and collaborative response. There is no better platform 
for  that  than  the  General  Assembly,  which  has  the 
necessary  scope  and  is  unique  in  representing  all 
Member  States  and  in  its  ability  to  harness  their 
support. Given the deep connection between the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  concept 
of  sustaining  peace,  the  Assembly  has  a  critical  role 
in  advancing  those  two  agendas  in  a  coherent  and 
effective  manner.  That  is  why  we  believe  that  the 
work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  should  also  be 
linked to other reform efforts — such as reform of the 
Security Council and the alignment exercise aimed at 
enhancing synergy between the General Assembly and 
the Economic and Social Council — in order to further 
the  2030  Agenda,  the  restructuring  of  the  peace  and 
security architecture and other United Nations reforms 
in the area of management.
Global  peace  and  stability  will  be  best  addressed 
when the three pillars of peace and security, development 
and human rights are acting in unison and are firmly 
supported  by  everyone.  Indonesia  is  pleased  that  the 
trends in the Assembly’s functions have generally been 
upward  and  positive,  particularly  since  the  adoption 
of  resolution  69/321.  It  is  vital  to  ensure  that  this 
momentum  is  sustained.  Both  inside  and  outside  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group,  Member  States  should  work 
together  to  ensure  that  the  provisions  of  resolution 
69/321, and other resolutions on the issue of revitalizing 
the Assembly, are implemented. Indonesia will present 
its views on the four clusters in detail when the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  convenes  specific  thematic  debates. 
For now, we will mention a few additional points.
First,  while  we  very  much  welcomed 
the 
improvements 
the  selection  and  appointment 
process  for  the  ninth  Secretary-General,  we  must 
involve  Member  States  more  meaningfully  in  future. 
In that context, it is important to ensure that the best 
practices and lessons learned from that experience are 
documented while they are fresh in our memories. That 
will make a good reference point for the doubtless many 
new diplomats who will have joined the United Nations 
by the time the next selection process takes place.
to 
Secondly,  Indonesia  fully  supports  the  expansion 
of constructive dialogue among countries to facilitate 
international  peace  and  welfare.  However,  as  was 
alluded  to  in  resolution  71/323,  we  should  rationalize 
the  number  of  high-level  events.  The  focus  should  be 
more on genuinely meeting our commitments so as to 
achieve concrete results on the ground. We also agree 
that the Secretary-General should be requested to inform 
the membership about any constraints that prevent the 
Secretariat  from  implementing  any  provisions  of  the 
resolutions on revitalization.
Thirdly, it is vital to improve the working methods 
of  the  Main  Committees,  the  Assembly  and  its 
subsidiary bodies by instituting good practices such as 
streamlining resolutions and meetings, communicating 
the  names  of  candidates  for  election  in  advance, 
instituting  a  code  of  conduct  for  election  campaigns 
and  ensuring  timely  handovers  between  outgoing  and 
incoming officials.
Fourthly, as the role of the Office of the President 
of the General Assembly in dealing with international 
issues is growing, it should be receiving corresponding 
support,  including  through  the  ongoing  practice  of 
seconding  personnel  from  Permanent  Missions.  We 
also  see  merit  in  beginning  the  President’s  term  one 
week earlier so that the President can better prepare for 
the high-level debates.
in 
Finally, 
the  selection  of  United  Nations 
executive  heads  and  the  appointment  of  other  senior 
positions  at  Headquarters  and  in  the  field,  we  stress 
the importance of fielding well-qualified, merit-based 
candidates,  ensuring  a  gender  balance  and  broad 
geographic  distribution,  particularly  from  countries 
whose nationals are underrepresented, including small 
islands  and  developing  and  least  developed  countries. 
Countries that have a proven track record in contributing 
to  the  United  Nations,  including  police-  and  troop-
contributing  countries,  should  also  be  represented 
in  the  Secretariat.  No  country  or  group  of  countries 
should have a monopoly or disproportionate number of 
nationals among the United Nations senior staff. Let us 
together enable the General Assembly to perform its role 
fully. For its part, Indonesia will work tirelessly in the 
Ad Hoc Working Group and other forums to contribute 
to and support steps that meaningfully strengthen the 
Assembly and its mechanisms.
Mr. Teo (Singapore): I would first like to convey our 
deepest sympathies to the Governments and peoples of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Republic of Iraq for 
the earthquake that struck this weekend, sadly claiming 
24/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
the lives of many and causing widespread destruction. 
We would like to express our heartfelt condolences to 
the survivors and their families, and wish the injured a 
speedy recovery.
I would like to thank the President for convening 
this debate early in his presidency and giving priority to 
the issue of the revitalization of the work of the General 
Assembly.  I  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating 
the  Ambassadors  of  Croatia  and  Colombia  on  their 
appointments  as  the  new  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  Work  of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. We 
are confident that they will continue to lead the work of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group in an inclusive, transparent 
and  efficient  manner,  and  that  we  will  make  further 
progress under their leadership.
The  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  an  important  issue  for  many  States, 
including  my  own.  As  a  small  State,  Singapore  has 
been  a  strong  supporter  of  a  more  efficient,  effective 
and accountable United Nations and General Assembly. 
Our work here must reinforce the Assembly’s role and 
authority,  and  we  have  consistently  championed  its 
revitalization. Over the years, the work of the General 
Assembly  has  undoubtedly  increased,  not  simply  in 
volume, but also in scope and depth. Its revitalization 
is therefore crucial to ensuring that it keeps abreast of 
the  challenges  of  the  day  and  is  able  to  discharge  its 
responsibilities as the main deliberative, policymaking 
and representative organ of the United Nations.
In the midst of the slow and difficult negotiations 
elsewhere  in  the  United  Nations,  the  work  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  has  stood  out  as  a  lodestar  of 
progress. Over the past three years, we have adopted by 
consensus three milestone resolutions that collectively 
serve to strengthen the authority and credibility of the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Office  of  the  President  of 
the General Assembly. We have made further progress 
this  year  under  the  able  leadership  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Croatia and the United Arab Emirates, 
and I take this opportunity to congratulate them. The 
decisions taken this year have led to quick and practical 
improvements  on  the  ground.  For  example,  we  now 
have clearly printed ballot papers with new guidelines 
on  the  distribution  of  campaign  materials  on  election 
day,  improving  the  election  process  in  the  General 
Assembly. Thanks to those improved procedures, none 
of the votes cast in the recent Human Rights Council 
elections  were  invalid.  For  my  delegation,  that  was  a 
visible demonstration of how the work of the Ad Hoc 
Working Group can make a positive impact on our work 
here  in  the  General  Assembly.  We  also  welcome  the 
other improvements that have resulted from decisions 
adopted  in  resolution  71/323,  including  many  of  our 
proposals, such as the instituting of handover meetings 
between  the  outgoing  and  incoming  teams  of  the 
Chairs  of  the  Main  Committees.  Such  decisions  will 
help  to  improve  the  efficiency,  complementarity  and 
transparency of the work of the General Assembly for 
the benefit of all, particularly small States.
While the progress achieved over the past few years 
is commendable, we must not rest on our laurels. It is 
important for us to build on that positive momentum, 
and  continue  our  efforts  to  improve  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  its  processes  on  a  basis  of 
consensus.  First,  we  must  build  on  the  improvements 
that  we  have  made  in  the  working  methods  of  the 
Assembly, notably the election process. In that regard, 
we  look  forward  to  formulating  a  code  of  conduct  to 
guide  the  conduct  of  Member  States  during  election 
campaigns. Our overriding goal is to ensure that current 
election campaign practices at the United Nations do not 
inadvertently lead to spiraling costs as each competing 
delegation  tries  to  outdo  other  campaigns,  which 
puts  smaller  developing  countries  at  a  disadvantage. 
Campaigns  should  ideally  focus  on  the  quality  of  the 
candidates and their ability to contribute to the work of 
the body in which they are seeking membership, not on 
gifts or lavish receptions.
Secondly, 
in 
improvements 
the  selection  and 
appointment  process  of  United  Nations  officials  must 
not stop with the appointment of the Secretary-General 
but  should  extend  to  all  other  senior  appointments 
within  the  Organization.  We  call  on  the  Secretary-
General  to  make  appointments  based  on  merit,  while 
taking  into  account  gender  and  geographical  balance 
and also ensuring the highest standards of efficiency, 
competence and integrity. There should no monopoly on 
senior posts in the United Nations system by nationals 
of any State or group of countries.
Thirdly,  we  must  continue  our  efforts  to  ensure 
that  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  is  fit  for 
purpose. Our priority is to ensure that the agendas of 
the  General  Assembly  and  its  Main  Committees,  and 
of the Economic and Social Council, work coherently 
to support the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development, which is important for many 
developing  countries.  We  therefore  look  forward  to 
17-37640
25/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
working  with  the  President,  as  a  member  both  of  the 
General  Committee  and  an  interested  delegation,  in 
developing  practical  proposals  aimed  at  addressing 
gaps  and  duplication  in  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly as they relate to the 2030 Agenda.
We  have  made  some  suggestions  aimed  at 
increasing the progress already being made in the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group.  My  delegation  will  work  with 
the President, as well as the new co-Chairs and other 
delegations, in our joint endeavour to further enhance 
the 
transparency,  accountability,  efficiency  and 
legitimacy of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Kawamura  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  I  want  to 
say that our delegation is deeply grieved by the news 
of the earthquake that struck the region bordering the 
Islamic Republic of Iran and the Republic of Iraq. We 
would  like  to  offer  our  deepest  condolences  to  the 
bereaved and to express our heartfelt sympathies to all 
of the people who have been affected.
I  would  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the  President 
of 
the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
today’s 
meeting. I would also like to express my appreciation 
for  the  President’s  statement  at  the  opening  of  the 
seventy-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/72/PV.3), in which he clearly defined the importance 
of the revitalization process and showed his intention to 
further promote that process in the context of reform of 
the United Nations.
Concerning  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
General  Assembly,  Japan  welcomed  the  adoption  of 
resolution 71/323. Our delegation would like to express 
its  sincere  gratitude  to  Ambassadors  Drobnjak  of 
Croatia  and  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
for  their  hard  work  and  skilful  chairship  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group.  We  welcome  the  reappointment 
of  Ambassador  Drobnjak  and  the  appointment  of 
Ambassador Mejía Vélez as co-Chairs of the Working 
Group  during  the  current  session,  and  are  looking 
forward to collaborating closely with them.
With  regard  to  the  implementation  of  United 
Nations  resolutions,  our  delegation  would  like  to 
emphasize that the implementation of General Assembly 
resolutions,  including  those  related  to  revitalization, 
is critical to enhancing the Assembly’s efficiency and 
effectiveness, and we also underline that it is Member 
States’ responsibility to implement them. We have been 
pleased to see several examples of the implementation 
of resolution 71/323 already. Rule 92 of the Assembly’s 
rules  of  procedure  was  amended  in  accordance  with 
paragraph  46  of  the  resolution.  On  16  October,  the 
first  election  —  of  candidates  for  the  Human  Rights 
Council  —  was  conducted  with  the  new  method  of 
filling  out  ballot  papers.  On  election  day  in  the  Hall, 
a  single  page  of  information  about  the  candidates 
was  distributed  to  the  desk  of  every  delegation,  in 
accordance with the resolution. Each of those instances 
represents an important step in the implementation of 
resolution 71/323.
that 
Our  delegation  believes 
in  promoting 
the  revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
strengthening  its  constituent  roles,  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly plays a critical part. 
We should continue to encourage the Office to maintain 
its transparency and effectiveness. Given the fact that 
the activities of the President of the General Assembly 
have increased substantially in recent years, adequate 
resources should be allocated to the Office to provide the 
support that it needs to carry them out successfully. In 
that regard, Japan will provide a voluntary contribution 
to  the  United  Nations  Trust  Fund  in  support  of  the 
Office.  The  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, clearly expressed 
his  intention  to  include  peace,  prevention  and  the 
avoidance  of  conflict,  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals and climate change as his priorities. Japan shares 
those  priorities,  and  is  willing  to  assist  the  President 
in  exercising  his  leadership  to  address  those  difficult 
issues throughout the world.
In the course of the seventy-second session, it will 
be important to continue the discussions on revitalizing 
the Assembly. In particular, working methods will be 
another  essential  part  of  those  discussions.  Japan  has 
been very active in improving working methods within 
the  United  Nations.  For  example,  resolution  68/307 
moved the election dates for the Security Council and 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  from  October  to 
June.  In  order  to  take  full  advantage  of  that  change, 
which  is  intended  to  give  new  members  more  time 
to  prepare  for  their  membership,  Japan,  as  Chair  of 
the  Security  Council’s  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions, 
proposed that the Informal Working Group revisit the 
transitional  arrangements  for  newly  elected  members 
of  the  Council.  In  July  2016,  following  intensive 
consultations,  the  Security  Council  adopted  a  new 
presidential  note,  contained  in  document  S/2016/619. 
With that new agreement, the newly elected members 
26/28 
17-37640
13/11/2017 
A/72/PV.48
are  now  invited  to  observe  Council  meetings  starting 
on 1 October. The note also includes improvements to 
transparency and inclusivity in the selection process for 
the Chairs of subsidiary organs, as well as measures to 
facilitate early preparation by the Chairs.
Following  up  on  the  open  debate  on  the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  (see  S/PV.7740)  that 
was held during our presidency of the Security Council 
in  July  2016,  Japan  has  initiated  discussions  in  the 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions  to  identify  areas  for  further 
improvements  to  the  Council’s  working  methods, 
including increasing the Council’s interaction with the 
wider membership of the United Nations. On 30 August, 
the  Security  Council  agreed  on  a  comprehensive  new 
presidential note on its working methods (S/2017/507), 
which  consolidates  and  streamlines  all  the  existing 
presidential  notes  and  lays  out  some  new  measures. 
Japan  is  eager  to  continue  contributing  to  improving 
the working methods of the United Nations, including 
the Security Council.
The  issue  of  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the  General  Assembly  is  also  an  urgent  challenge. 
The  current  consideration  of  the  possibility  of  the 
biennialization  or  triennialization  of  agenda  items 
should continue, as has been done in the past few years, 
and  we  again  look  forward  to  working  with  Member 
States on that issue during the current session.
Just  as  we  moved  the  elections  to  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
earlier dates through our adoption of resolution 68/307, 
we  might  also  consider  holding  the  elections  for  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  earlier,  so  that 
the  President-elect  is  afforded  sufficient  time  to  set 
up his or her team and prepare for the handover. Our 
delegation proposed that point at a meeting of the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  last  year.  We  believe  that  this 
idea is in line with suggestions that have been made by 
several  Chairs  of  the  Main  Committees,  stressing  the 
importance  of  holding  elections  earlier  in  the  interest 
of ensuring smooth transitions.
Mr.  Prasad  (India):  India  would  first  like  to 
express its sympathies to the families of the victims of 
the earthquakes that took place over the weekend. We 
sincerely regret the loss of life.
At  the  outset,  I  align  myself  with  the  statement 
made earlier by the representative of Algeria on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
I  congratulate 
important  meeting. 
I would like to thank the President for convening 
today’s 
the 
Permanent Representatives of Croatia and Colombia on 
their appointment as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Revitalization of the Work of the General 
Assembly and wish them success in their endeavours. 
The co-Chairs for the seventy-first session also deserve 
our thanks for their excellent work.
Any 
institution’s  effectiveness,  relevance  and 
longevity  depend  on  its  dynamic  character  and  its 
ability  to  adapt  to  changing  times  so  that  it  not  only 
upholds timeless values but also addresses the emerging 
problems and challenges of the present day. The General 
Assembly  is  the  most  representative  global  body  that 
the  collective  enterprise  and  wisdom  of  humankind 
has  established  to  date.  Its  primacy  flows  from  the 
universality  of  its  membership  and  the  principle  of 
the sovereign equality of all of its members. It cannot 
be  compared  to  any  other  organization  or  institution 
within or outside the United Nations system, owing to 
its sheer representativeness and the moral weight of its 
decisions and opinions. However, there is a widespread 
feeling  that  the  Assembly  has  been  prevented  from 
living up to its unique role, as set out in Article 10 of 
the Charter of the United Nations. In addition, over the 
past years, it has lost touch with its core responsibilities 
and is increasingly involved solely with processes.
The  role  and  authority  of  the  General  Assembly 
have been gradually undermined by the expansive role 
and activism of the Security Council. We must admit 
that part of the blame lies with the General Assembly 
itself,  which  has  allowed  itself  to  be  undermined  and 
encroached on, despite representing the collective voice 
of humankind. That is counterproductive for the overall 
effectiveness and relevance of the United Nations.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  that 
Japan  stands  ready  to  support  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  contribute  constructively  to 
the discussions on the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly, with the aim of further enhancing the 
effectiveness and transparency of the United Nations.
We firmly believe that the position of the General 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative  policymaking  and 
representative organ of the United Nations, as mandated 
by  the  Charter,  must  be  restored  and  respected  in 
letter and in spirit. The Assembly must lead in setting 
the  global  agenda  and  restoring  the  centrality  of  the 
17-37640
27/28
A/72/PV.48 
13/11/2017
United Nations in formulating multilateral approaches 
to  addressing  emerging  challenges  and  resolving 
transnational  issues.  The  leading  role  played  by  the 
General  Assembly  at  the  Sustainable  Development 
Summit in 2015, followed by the adoption of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  success 
of  this  year’s  Ocean  Conference,  are  shining  recent 
examples  of  how  the  Assembly  can  set  the  global 
agenda  and  lead  the  way  in  addressing  issues  and 
concerns of a global nature. It is therefore incumbent 
on us, the Member States, to ensure that it maintains its 
leadership role on issues of transnational importance.
The process of revitalizing the General Assembly 
is an urgent task. In the past few years it has brought 
about  significant  improvements  aimed  at  meeting  the 
increasingly complex demands of our rapidly changing 
world.  Some  of  the  positive  outcomes  that  have  been 
widely  acknowledged  were  evident  during  the  2016 
selection  of  the  Secretary-General  and  in  the  recent 
efforts to strengthen the Office of the President of the 
General Assembly. My delegation engaged actively in 
the  debate  on  improving  the  process  and  conduct  of 
elections that led to the adoption of resolution 71/323. 
Among other things, we have also furthered the cause 
of multilingualism at the United Nations and helped to 
facilitate  better  cooperation  between  Member  States 
and  the  Secretariat.  Although  the  progress  we  are 
making is encouraging, we have a long way to go. My 
delegation  will  continue  to  make  additional  concrete 
proposals on further revitalizing the General Assembly 
and  to  work  actively  for  that  broader  purpose  with 
other delegations.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  must 
also be seen in the wider context of the overall reform 
of the United Nations. Since its inception in 1945, the 
United  Nations  has  come  a  long  way.  However,  its 
continued  relevance  and  effectiveness  in  addressing 
emerging global challenges will depend largely on its 
ability to stay abreast of changing times and realities. 
The winds of change are blowing. The issue of United 
Nations  reform,  including  the  revitalization  of  the 
Assembly  and  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  is 
assuming  increasing  significance.  We  must  heed  the 
call  for  United  Nations  reform  made  by  many  world 
leaders  during  the  general  debate  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Assembly’s  seventy-second  session.  It  is  our 
firm  belief  that  urgent  and  comprehensive  reform 
is  needed  if  we  are  to  ensure  that  the  Organization 
reflects  current  geopolitical  realities  and  to  enhance 
its  capability  to  meet  the  increasingly  complex  and 
pressing transnational challenges of our times.
The time for change has come. Let us make genuine 
efforts to strengthen the role of the General Assembly 
in setting the global agenda, policymaking and finding 
solutions  to  global  challenges  and  problems,  which 
will  help  to  strengthen  the  legitimacy  of  the  United 
Nations and of multilateralism as a whole. The General 
Assembly  can  count  on  my  delegation’s  constructive 
support and participation in those efforts.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
28/28 
17-37640
