United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
46th plenary meeting
Friday, 10 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.46*
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 89
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/221)
Draft resolution (A/72/L.6)
The  President:  I  now  invite  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency, to introduce the report of the Agency for the 
year 2016.
Mr. Amano (International Atomic Energy Agency): 
The  sixtieth-anniversary  year  of  the  International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is drawing to a close. 
Over the past six decades, the Agency has contributed 
to  international  peace  and  security  and  made  a  real 
difference  in  the  lives  of  millions  of  people.  Thanks 
to  the  support  of  member  States  and  the  dedication 
of  our  excellent  staff,  we  can  take  pride  in  important 
achievements  in  all  areas  of  our  work  over  that  time 
period,  including  in  the  past  12  months.  The  annual 
report of the IAEA (see A/72/221) has been distributed 
to the Assembly.
Science 
and 
are 
essential 
technology 
for 
development. Transferring peaceful nuclear technology 
to  developing  countries  is  at  the  core  of  the  business 
of  the  IAEA  and  one  of  the  most  important  areas  of 
our work. The IAEA technical cooperation programme 
is central to the delivery of our “Atoms for Peace and 
Development” mandate. It has improved the health and 
prosperity  of  millions  of  people  and  delivered  huge 
benefits to entire communities. The Agency now helps 
countries  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals in energy, food and agriculture, industry, water 
management and health, as well as in other areas. We 
focus on transferring knowledge and technical expertise. 
The  Agency  works  closely  with  key  United  Nations 
partners, including the World Health Organization and 
the Food and Agriculture Organization, for the benefit 
of  member  States.  The  first  International  Conference 
on the IAEA Technical Cooperation Programme, which 
took place this year, attracted high-level participation 
and enhanced awareness of our unique role in nuclear-
technology transfer.
the 
The  modernization  of 
IAEA’s  nuclear 
applications  laboratories  near  Vienna  continues  to 
make excellent progress. It is one of the most important 
projects  the  Agency  has  ever  undertaken,  with  an 
investment  likely  to  total  around  €60  million.  I  am 
grateful to the 31 countries and a number of individuals 
whose  generous  financial  and  in-kind  contributions 
have  made  it  possible.  The  eight  laboratories  provide 
assistance to more than 150 countries in areas such as 
food and agriculture, health and the environment. The 
new  Insect  Pest  Control  Laboratory  was  inaugurated 
in  September.  It  will  help  countries  to  use  nuclear 
techniques to better control pests such as mosquitoes, 
tsetse flies and fruit flies. In a few years’ time, when 
it is completed, the expanded laboratory complex will 
greatly increase our capabilities as a technology holder, 
to the benefit of all 168 IAEA member States.
Nuclear  power  is  likely  to  make  a  growing 
contribution to sustainable development in the coming 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37449 (E)
*1737449*

* Reissued for technical reasons 30 October 2018.
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
decades.  The  Agency  supports  countries  that  want  to 
introduce nuclear power or expand existing programmes. 
Today,  70  per  cent  of  the  world’s  electricity  comes 
from fossil fuels. Eleven per cent comes from nuclear 
power, which is one of the lowest-carbon technologies 
for  generating  electricity.  However,  nuclear  power 
generates  almost  one  third  of  the  global  total  of  low-
carbon electricity. By 2050, if the climate-change goals 
set under the Paris Climate Change Agreement are to be 
met, around 80 per cent of all electricity will have to be 
low-carbon. Nuclear-power plants produce virtually no 
greenhouse-gas emissions or air pollutants during their 
operation, and emissions over their entire life cycle are 
very low. So the increased use of nuclear power, as well 
as  of  renewables,  will  help  countries  to  achieve  their 
climate-change goals.
The IAEA International Ministerial Conference on 
Nuclear  Power  in  the  21st  Century  took  place  in  Abu 
Dhabi  10  days  ago.  In  his  concluding  statement,  the 
President of the Conference said that
“[f]or many countries, nuclear power is a proven, 
clean, safe and economical technology that will play 
an increasingly important role in achieving energy 
security, reducing the impact of volatile fossil-fuel 
prices and mitigating the effects of climate change 
and air pollution.”
In  August,  the  IAEA  Low  Enriched  Uranium  Bank 
storage  facility  was  inaugurated  in  Kazakhstan.  It 
will provide a last-resort mechanism to give countries 
confidence that they will be able to meet their future 
needs for nuclear fuel.
Turning  now  to  nuclear  verification,  the  number 
of  States  with  IAEA  safeguards  agreements  in  force 
stands  at  182.  I  encourage  all  countries  to  implement 
the  additional  protocol,  a  powerful  verification  tool 
that gives the Agency greater access to information and 
locations. There are now 130 countries with additional 
protocols in force.
The  Agency  continues  to  verify  and  monitor 
the  implementation  by  Iran  of  its  nuclear-related 
commitments  under  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan 
of  Action  (JCPOA),  agreed  on  in  2015.  The  nuclear-
related  commitments  undertaken  by  Iran  under  the 
JCPOA  are  being  implemented,  and  it  is  now  subject 
to the world’s most robust nuclear verification regime. 
Our inspectors have expanded access to the country’s 
sites  and  have  more  information  about  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme,  which  is  smaller  than  it  was  before  the 
JCPOA  came  into  effect.  The  Agency  continues  to 
verify  the  non-diversion  of  nuclear  material  declared 
by  Iran  under  its  Safeguards  Agreement.  Evaluations 
regarding  the  absence  of  undeclared  nuclear  material 
and activities in Iran continue.
I  remain  seriously  concerned  about  the  nuclear 
programme  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea.  Its  nuclear  test  in  September,  its  sixth  and 
largest to date, is extremely regrettable. I call on it to 
comply fully with its obligations under all the relevant 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  IAEA. 
As  the  Assembly  may  recall,  IAEA  inspectors  were 
required  to  leave  the  country  in  2009.  However,  the 
Agency  continues  to  monitor  the  nuclear  programme 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea through 
satellite 
imagery  and  by  collecting  open-source 
information.  We  are  also  working  to  maintain  our 
readiness to return there when political developments 
make that possible.
Safety  and  security  are  extremely  important  in 
all  uses  of  nuclear  technology,  whether  for  power  or 
non-power purposes. Both are national responsibilities, 
but  the  IAEA  plays  a  vital  role  in  enabling  countries 
to share experiences and best practices. Lessons from 
the Fukushima Daiichi accident in 2011 have now been 
incorporated  into  the  IAEA  nuclear-safety  standards, 
ensuring  that  they  will  become  part  of  global  safety 
practices. Safety must always come first and we must 
continue to strengthen a culture of safety. I encourage 
all  member  States  to  ensure  the  broad  application  of 
IAEA safety standards. With its worldwide reach and 
unrivalled  technical  expertise,  the  IAEA  has  served 
as  the  global  platform  for  cooperation  in  nuclear 
security for decades. Member States have consistently 
recognized  our  central  role  in  strengthening  the 
nuclear-security  framework.  The  IAEA  Board  of 
Governors  adopted  our  Nuclear  Security  Plan  2018-
2021  by  consensus  in  September.  At  the  request  of 
member  States,  we  continue  to  expand  the  assistance 
we provide to enable countries to minimize the risk of 
nuclear and other radioactive material being used in a 
malicious way.
Sound management of limited resources is essential 
if the Agency is to be able to meet the growing needs 
of member States. We will continue to strike a balance 
between  those  real  needs  and  the  reality  that  many 
member States face continued financial constraints.
2/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
I  take  the  issue  of  gender  parity  on  the  Agency’s 
staff  very  seriously.  We  have  significantly  increased 
the proportion of women in the professional and higher 
categories.  It  now  stands  at  29.4  per  cent,  the  highest 
ever. But we can and must do better. In June, I became 
an International Gender Champion, part of a leadership 
network that brings together key decision-makers with 
the aim of breaking down gender barriers, and made a 
commitment to increasing the proportion of women in 
the Agency at the most senior levels.
Since  becoming  Director  General  nearly  eight 
years  ago,  I  have  focused  on  ensuring  that  the  IAEA 
continues  to  be  an  international  organization  of 
excellence that delivers concrete results promptly. The 
IAEA’s  member  States  have  appointed  me  to  a  new 
four-year  term  starting  on  1  December.  Delivering 
concrete  results  on  everything  relating  to  “Atoms  for 
Peace and Development” will remain my focus in the 
coming years.
The  President:  I  thank  the  Director  General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  for  his 
introduction of the Agency’s report (see A/72/221).
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Indonesia to introduce draft resolution A/72/L.6.
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  My  delegation 
would  like  to  start  by  thanking  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  presentation  of  the  report  of 
the IAEA (see A/72/221) for the calendar year 2016 and 
for his statement, which provided updates on the main 
developments in the Agency’s activities.
Indonesia  underlines  the  vital  role  of  the  IAEA 
in  fostering  international  cooperation  on  the  peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  energy  and  technology,  as  well  as  in 
nuclear  safety  and  security.  The  IAEA  continues  to 
play an important role in providing technical assistance 
and the necessary support to member States that want 
to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. Indonesia 
fully supports the work and priorities of the IAEA and 
the  progress  that  it  has  made  in  2016.  We  encourage 
its  secretariat  to  pursue  its  programme  of  work  in  a 
balanced manner to meet the evolving needs of Member 
States and to ensure that the benefits of nuclear science 
and  technology  for  socioeconomic  development  are 
spread effectively.
We note with interest that 13 of the 17 Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  relate  directly  to  the 
Agency’s  areas  of  competence.  The  Agency’s  efforts, 
cooperation  and  assistance  in  nuclear  applications 
in  several  fields,  including  food,  agriculture,  nuclear 
technology,  power  generation,  fuel  cycles  and  health, 
contribute  to  economic  and  social  development  and 
play a part in the implementation of the SDGs.
We  underscore  the  IAEA’s  vital  work  in  nuclear 
safety  and  security  and  recognize  its  central  role  in 
verification.  However,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  that 
the  responsibility  for  nuclear  security  within  a  State 
rests entirely with that State, and that nuclear security 
should not be a condition or prerequisite for technical 
cooperation projects.
In  2016,  the  IAEA  itself  saw  improvement  in  its 
management  issues.  We  note  with  appreciation  the 
growing  proportion  of  women  in  professional  and 
higher categories, the highest in the Agency’s history. 
We also encourage it to make a priority of addressing 
the  issue  of  member  States’  underrepresentation  on 
its staff.
Indonesia is honoured to be the Chair of the Board 
of  Governors  of  the  IAEA  this  year.  I  am  therefore 
pleased to be able to take this opportunity to introduce 
to  the  General  Assembly  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency” 
(A/72/L.6). The draft text was approved by consensus 
after  the  consultations  held  in  Vienna  on  4  October. 
Informal consultations were also held in New York on 
27 October. The draft resolution, which the Assembly 
adopts annually, derives from a requirement based on 
the statute of the Agency and the cooperation agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Agency,  entered 
into in 1957. As in previous years, the text takes note of 
and expresses appreciation for the report of the IAEA. 
It  also  takes  note  of  the  resolutions  and  decisions 
adopted by the IAEA General Conference at its sixty-
first annual regular session, held in Vienna from 18 to 
22 September. It further appeals to Member States to 
continue to support the Agency’s activities.
We  are  confident  that  all  IAEA  member  States 
will  agree  that  the  Agency  plays  an  indispensable 
role  in  assisting  and  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear science and technology. It is our fervent hope 
that the draft resolution will once again be adopted by 
consensus this year.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
17-37449
3/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
Mr. Dabouis (European Union): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and 
its member States. The candidate countries the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidate  Bosnia 
and Herzegovina; the European Free Trade Association 
country  Liechtenstein,  member  of 
the  European 
Economic  Area;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
this statement.
We are pleased to support draft resolution A/72/L.46, 
on the report (see A/72/221) of the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  which  once  again  reaffirms 
the  Agency’s  indispensable  role  with  regard  to  the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  in  assisting 
the  development  and  practical  application  of  atomic 
energy  for  peaceful  uses,  as  well  as  in  technology 
transfer and in nuclear verification, safety and security. 
We are also pleased to note the strong support that has 
been expressed for the Agency’s work.
is 
fully 
the 
The  EU 
committed 
to  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament.  We 
reiterate 
our  firm  support  for  the  full,  complete  and  effective 
implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  which  we  regard  as  the 
cornerstone  of 
international  non-proliferation 
regime,  the  essential  foundation  of  efforts  to  pursue 
nuclear  disarmament,  in  accordance  with  article  VI 
of  the  NPT,  and  as  vital  to  the  further  development 
of  nuclear-energy  applications  for  peaceful  purposes. 
The EU reaffirms its full support for the establishment 
of a zone in the Middle East free of weapons of mass 
destruction  and  their  delivery  systems,  and  reiterates 
its readiness to assist in the process leading to that goal.
The  IAEA  safeguards  system  is  a  fundamental 
component of the nuclear-non-proliferation regime and 
plays  an  indispensable  role  in  the  implementation  of 
the NPT. We underline the Security Council’s primary 
responsibility in this area in cases of non-compliance. 
The  EU  further  recognizes  the  serious  proliferation 
challenges that continue to be a threat to international 
security  and  the  importance  of  finding  peaceful  and 
diplomatic solutions to them.
The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), 
an  agreement  endorsed  by  the  Security  Council  in 
resolution 2231 (2015), represents a key and functioning 
pillar of the international non-proliferation architecture 
that  is  even  more  important  to  preserve  at  a  time  of 
acute nuclear threat. The EU emphasizes that the IAEA 
has verified eight times that Iran is implementing all its 
nuclear-related commitments following a comprehensive 
and  strict  monitoring  system.  The  European  Union, 
along  with  the  international  community,  has  clearly 
indicated  its  commitment  to  ensuring  that  the  deal 
remains in place, and calls on all parties to implement 
all  parts  of  the  JCPOA  fully  and  effectively.  In  that 
regard,  the  EU  reiterates  the  importance  of  ensuring 
that Iran continues to abide strictly by all its nuclear-
related  commitments  and  cooperates  fully  and  in  a 
timely  manner  with  the  IAEA  by  implementing  its 
Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement and Additional 
Protocol, 
requested 
access. It is crucial for the IAEA to reach the broader 
conclusion,  which,  together  with  full  and  sustained 
implementation  of  the  JCPOA,  is  essential  if  we  are 
to  build  international  confidence  in  the  exclusively 
peaceful  nature  of  the  Iranian  nuclear  programme.  In 
that regard, it is essential to ensure that Iran ratifies its 
Additional Protocol as soon as possible. The EU fully 
supports  the  IAEA’s  long-term  mission  of  verifying 
and monitoring Iran’s nuclear-related commitments and 
affirms the importance of ensuring that the Agency has 
the means necessary to carry out its role.
including  by  providing  all 
threaten 
resolutions 
The  EU  strongly  condemns 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea’s latest nuclear test, along 
with all nuclear-weapon and ballistic-missile activities 
led  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea. 
The latest developments contravening several Security 
Council 
international  peace 
and  security  and  disrupt  the  strategic  equilibrium  in 
Asia  and  beyond.  We  urge  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  reverse  its  course,  abandon  its 
nuclear weapons and ballistic-missile programme in a 
complete, verifiable and irreversible manner, cease all 
related  activities  immediately,  return  to  the  NPT  and 
the IAEA safeguards without delay and sign and ratify 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  The  EU 
welcomed the Security Council’s unanimous adoption 
on 11 September of resolution 2375 (2017) and would like 
to note in that regard the EU’s adoption on 16 October 
of  new  autonomous  measures  complementing  and 
reinforcing the Security Council sanctions in order to 
increase pressure on the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  comply  with  its  obligations.  The  EU 
continues to consider it crucial to maintain an essential 
role for the IAEA in verifying the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea’s nuclear programme.
4/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
The  EU  urges  the  Syrian  regime  to  cooperate 
promptly and transparently with the Agency in order to 
resolve all outstanding issues, including by concluding 
and  implementing  its  Additional  Protocol  as  soon  as 
possible.
We call for the universalization of the comprehensive 
safeguards  agreements,  together  with  their  additional 
protocols, without delay. The EU strongly supports the 
State-level concept, as well as the further development 
and application of enhanced capabilities for analytical 
services, 
technologies. 
Furthermore, we are actively supporting the Agency’s 
safeguards system through the European Commission 
Cooperative  Support  Programme  and  the  support 
programmes of some of our member States.
information  analysis  and 
The  EU  and  its  member  States  consider  the 
worldwide implementation and continuing improvement 
of nuclear safety to be of the utmost importance. The 
goal  of  nuclear  safety,  which  is  also  included  in  the 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Vienna  Declaration  on 
Nuclear  Safety,  adopted  in  2015  by  the  contracting 
parties to the Convention on Nuclear Safety, remains a 
priority for EU member States. The European Union and 
its member States include in their priorities the IAEA 
Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety  and  the  cross-cutting 
safety issues, as defined by the contracting parties to the 
Convention, and emphasize the importance of keeping 
them at the front and centre of the IAEA’s work.
In  the  framework  of  its  strategy  to  combat  the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the 
European  Union 
is  actively  supporting  Security 
Council resolutions 1540 (2004), 1887 (2009) and 2325 
(2016),  as  well  as  other  international  initiatives  that 
contribute  to  strengthening  nuclear  security,  such  as 
the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, the 
Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and 
Materials of Mass Destruction and the informal Nuclear 
Security  Contact  Group.  The  EU  has  always  been 
supportive  of  the  Nuclear  Security  Summit  process. 
Of  the  €260  million  we  have  dedicated  to  chemical, 
biological,  radiological  and  nuclear  risk  mitigation 
worldwide for the period from 2014 to 2020, more than 
€100  million  has  been  allocated  to  the  EU’s  regional 
chemical,  biological,  radiological  and  nuclear  Centres 
of Excellence initiative.
The  EU  stresses  the  importance  of  preventing 
nuclear  terrorism  and  the  misuse  of  nuclear  and 
radioactive  material.  We  strongly  support  the  IAEA’s 
central role in the global nuclear-security framework and 
welcome its adoption of the Nuclear Security Plan for 
the period from 2018 to 2021. We call on IAEA member 
States to ensure reliable and sustainable resources for 
those  services.  Together  with  its  member  States,  the 
EU is currently the second biggest donor to the Nuclear 
Security  Fund.  EU  funds  totaling  €45  million,  with 
another €75 million from EU member States, have been 
contributed to the Nuclear Security Fund to date, to the 
benefit of around 100 countries.
The  EU  welcomed  the  entry  into  force  in  May 
2016  of  the  2005  amendment  to  the  Convention  on 
the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  We  will 
continue to help States to fully implement the amended 
Convention’s provisions and encourage the Agency to 
promote universal adherence to it.
The EU remains firmly committed to the benefits 
of  multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle 
and  congratulates  both  Kazakhstan  and  the  IAEA  on 
the  successful  construction  and  opening  of  a  facility 
dedicated to the operation of the IAEA Low Enriched 
Uranium Bank. The EU is supporting the project with 
around €25 million, including €20 million for acquiring 
low-enriched  uranium  and  around  €4.4  million  for 
safety- and security-related measures, and welcomes the 
Agency’s launch of the fair and transparent acquisition 
process that the establishment of the Bank requires.
including 
Finally, the EU and its 28 member States continue 
to  be  strong  supporters  of  the  IAEA’s  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme, 
the 
Technical  Cooperation  Fund  and  the  Peaceful  Uses 
Initiative. The EU is the second-largest contributor to 
the Programme, and we support both the IAEA and its 
member States in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy 
and technology, as well as with our technical expertise, 
with an average of €15 million annually.
through 
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
Mr.  Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  presentation 
of the report (see A/72/221) of the work of the Agency 
in 2016.
As Monaco’s delegation reaffirmed at the IAEA’s 
Scientific  Forum  in  September,  “Monaco  is  fully 
committed  to  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through the use of nuclear applications for sustainable 
development”. By assisting countries in using nuclear 
and 
IAEA  contributes 
directly to the achievement of most of the Sustainable 
techniques, 
isotopic 
the 
17-37449
5/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
Development Goals (SDGs). The peaceful use of nuclear 
technology  is  reflected  in  many  areas  that  Monaco 
considers particularly important.
In the area of the environment, isotope techniques 
provide  accurate  assessments  of  soil  erosion  and  the 
areas that are most vulnerable to it. Such assessments 
can reverse the process of land degradation and restore 
soils, thereby helping to halt the loss of biodiversity. As 
mentioned in the Agency’s annual report of the Agency, 
in 2016 the Marine Environmental Studies Laboratory 
celebrated  its  thirtieth  anniversary.  It  was  established 
in  Monaco  to  assist  Member  States  in  monitoring 
marine pollution and analyzing contaminants in marine 
samples,  in  close  collaboration  with  the  Regional 
Seas  Programme  of  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme. It has trained more than 400 scientists to 
date.  In  the  area  of  agriculture,  nuclear  and  isotopic 
techniques  can 
including 
through the detection and prevention of animal diseases, 
soil  conservation  and  the  management  of  irrigation 
water resources.
improve  food  security, 
Monaco  also  fully  supports  the  Agency  and  its 
health  programmes  aimed  at  reducing  mortality  from 
non-communicable diseases. In particular, since 2008, 
Monaco has been supporting the Programme of Action 
for  Cancer  Therapy,  designed  to  create  radiological 
medicine facility services and provide theoretical and 
practical  training  for  specialized  health  professionals. 
The IAEA’s activities aimed at planning and ensuring 
access to nuclear-power programmes and clean, reliable 
and  affordable  energy  sources  are  other  important 
contributions that it makes to implementing the SDGs.
that  scientific 
research conducted using nuclear tools, with the support 
of  the  IAEA,  helps  to  develop  measures  and  policies 
for addressing the challenge of climate change and its 
effects. Isotopic techniques can be used to study certain 
biological processes, such as the formation of various 
species’ shells and skeletons, as well as the growth of 
phytoplankton, which is at the base of the entire marine 
food chain.
My  delegation  firmly  believes 
The  acidification  of  the  oceans,  which  is  a  direct 
consequence  both  of  climate  change  and  the  increase 
in  greenhouse-gas  emissions,  is  one  of  the  areas  in 
which the Agency and Monaco have done a great deal 
of work. In that regard, we welcomed the participation 
of  Мr.  David  Osborn,  Director  of  the  Environmental 
Laboratories, in the dialogue between partners devoted 
to the topic and chaired by His Serene Highness Prince 
Albert II at the Ocean Conference in June. In another 
example of our commitment, the IAEA Environmental 
Laboratories and Scientific Centre of Monaco partnered 
to  organize  a  series  of  international  workshops  on 
the  socioeconomic  impacts  of  ocean  acidification, 
the  fourth  of  which  was  held  in  Monaco  from  15  to 
17 October. Some 60 experts from 23 countries attended 
and discussed practical and applicable solutions adapted 
to specific regions of the globe, such as the Red Sea, the 
Indian Ocean, the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean.
I would like to highlight the important role of the 
Ocean Acidification International Coordination Centre 
within  the  Environmental  Laboratories  in  research, 
scientific  cooperation  and  capacity-building.  I  would 
like  to  recall  here  that  it  was  the  United  States  that 
announced its establishment at the 2012 United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro, and to acknowledge the indispensable financial 
support that it continues to provide for it.
In 2008, Monaco and the organization behind the 
International  Thermonuclear  Experimental  Reactor 
(ITER) signed a partnership agreement that agreed on a 
financial commitment on our part of €5.5 million over 
10 years, providing for an international conference to 
be  held  regularly  in  Monaco,  as  well  as  funding  for 
post-doctoral  fellowships  giving  young  scientists  the 
opportunity to pursue a two-year course in thermonuclear 
research.  Monaco  has  hosted 
the  Monaco-ITER 
International  Fusion  Energy  Days  conferences  every 
three  years  since  2010,  of  which  the  most  recent,  the 
Monaco-ITER Business Forum, was held in February 
2016,  bringing 
together  500  participants  among 
scientists, engineers and industrialists from more than 
20  different  countries.  In  conclusion,  Monaco  has 
complete  confidence  in  the  IAEA  and  is  pleased  to 
continue  as  a  co-author  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.6, 
which we will adopt at the end of the meeting.
Ms. Fedorovich (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): On 
behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus, 
I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano  for  his 
comprehensive briefing on the work of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in  2016,  congratulate 
him  on  his  re-election  to  the  important  post  of  its 
Director  General  and  wish  him  every  success  in  his 
future  work.  In  our  view,  the  IAEA  has  managed  to 
achieve  positive  results  in  all  three  of  its  main  areas 
of  activity  —  implementing  safeguards,  facilitating 
6/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology  and  ensuring  the 
safety of its use.
Many  States  today  have  placed  their  hopes  in 
nuclear  power  as  a  cheap  and  clean  source  of  energy 
that  can  contribute  to  sustainable  development.  The 
work  of  the  IAEA  in  helping  to  develop  safe  nuclear 
energy  is  therefore  particularly  important  and  in 
demand.  Belarus  has  also  chosen  to  use  nuclear 
energy.  We  hope  that  in  the  near  future  a  significant 
share of the electricity that our country needs will be 
produced by the Belarusian nuclear power plant, which 
is  currently  under  construction  and  will  enable  us  to 
ensure  a  stable  flow  of  cheap  and  ecologically  clean 
energy. Needless to say, it has long been axiomatic that 
nuclear security must be a priority at every stage in the 
life cycle of a nuclear power station, from planning to 
decommissioning. We emphasize the Agency’s key role 
in  developing  and  making  progress  on  international 
nuclear-security standards. For Belarus, which suffered 
hugely as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, and is now 
building its first nuclear power station, nuclear-security 
and transparency issues are crucially important. We are 
cooperating actively with the IAEA in every area and 
are grateful for its support.
The report of the IAEA (see A/72/221) notes that the 
number of requests from member States for independent 
studies  and  consultation  services  has  continued  to 
increase, which we believe is evidence of the demand 
and  practical  usefulness  of  the  Agency’s  services.  In 
the past year, Belarus has hosted two important Agency 
review  services,  the  Integrated  Regulatory  Review 
Service and the Site and External Events Design Review 
Service, and we will continue that cooperation with the 
IAEA. We are pleased with the growing attention paid 
to the IAEA’s Technical Cooperation Programme. We 
believe that recognition of the Agency’s role in helping 
Member States achieve their Sustainable Development 
Goals  is  one  of  the  most  important  achievements 
of  the  past  few  years.  The  use  of  nuclear  technology 
for  progress  in  areas  where  people  can  really  feel  its 
benefit, whether in energy, medicine or agriculture, as 
well as ensuring that such technologies are accessible, 
is becoming a well-known aspect of the IAEA’s brand. 
Belarus’s technical cooperation projects with the IAEA 
have enabled us to increase the effectiveness of training 
personnel  for  the  nuclear-energy  sector  and  ensure 
nuclear  and  radiation  security,  and  have  contributed 
significantly to developing nuclear medicine.
They have also helped us in solving the particular 
problems  related  to  sustainable  development  of  the 
lands devastated by the Chernobyl disaster. We greatly 
appreciate  the  IAEA’s  contribution  to  international 
cooperation  on  Chernobyl.  It  has  helped  us  on  many 
fronts. Today we consider it to be one of our fundamental 
partners  in  implementing  United  Nations  initiatives 
assisting  the  affected  regions  in  their  sustainable 
development efforts.
We note the IAEA’s effective work in implementing 
nuclear-non-proliferation guarantees. Belarus wholeheartedly 
supports the IAEA’s safeguards system and considers its 
further  strengthening  very  important.  It  is  particularly 
important  to  maintain  the  IAEA’s  understandable, 
objective, depoliticized and technically backed system 
of  guarantees,  founded  on  the  basis  of  agreements 
concluded between the Agency and its member States. 
Belarus  fully  supports  the  work  of  the  IAEA  and  we 
are pleased to be a sponsor of draft resolution A/72/L.6.
Mrs.  Mills  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  Assembly’s 
annual  consideration  of  the  report  (see  A/72/221)  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
Like  other  speakers  before  me,  I  want  to  thank  the 
Director General for his statement and acknowledge the 
Agency’s invaluable work over the past year. We also 
wish to congratulate him on his reappointment to lead 
the  Agency  and  to  assure  him  of  Jamaica’s  continued 
support in that regard.
Jamaica  attaches  signal  importance  to  the  work 
done by the IAEA. Over the past year, we have benefited 
from a range of technical and other kinds of assistance 
that  have  been  instrumental  in  several  key  priority 
areas, such as education, health and research, including 
the  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy.  We 
continue to witness the consolidation and expansion of 
the relationship that we have enjoyed with the Agency 
since  becoming  a  member  in  1965.  Jamaica  is  proud 
of the fact that we are party to five IAEA multilateral 
agreements  and 
two  Safeguards  Agreements.  In 
addition,  and  in  keeping  with  our  commitment  to 
partnering  with  the  Agency,  Jamaica  will  be  hosting 
three  IAEA  workshops  on  the  security  of  radioactive 
material  in  transport  in  the  last  and  first  quarters  of 
2017 and 2018, respectively. Earlier this year, Jamaica 
also deposited its instrument of acceptance pursuant to 
the Regional Cooperation Agreement for the Promotion 
of  Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  in  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean.
17-37449
7/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
The  work  of  the  IAEA  in  the  promotion  of  the 
peaceful uses of nuclear technology and the application 
of  a  safeguards  regime  for  verification,  safety  and 
security remains critical. Consequently, we continue to 
encourage  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede 
to  the  legally  binding  international  conventions  and 
commit  to  working  towards  the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear  weapons.  The  adoption  in  July  of  the  Treaty 
on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  represents  a 
significant milestone in efforts to delegitimize nuclear 
weapons  and  reinforce  the  norms  against  their  use. 
We look forward to the role that the Treaty can play in 
realizing those objectives.
In  keeping  with  our  own  commitment  to  using 
nuclear energy for scientific and peaceful purposes, the 
Jamaican  Parliament  has  passed  a  nuclear  safety  and 
radiation protection act. In July 2015 we established a 
hazardous substances regulatory authority, and through 
those  and  other  frameworks  we  continue  to  regulate 
activities, practices and facilities that involve ionizing 
radiation and nuclear technology.
We are especially pleased that the IAEA continues 
to  attract  new  members,  and  we  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  welcome  our  fellow  Caribbean 
Community partner, Grenada, whose membership has 
been approved by the General Conference of the IAEA. 
As  we  noted  at  the  recently  concluded  Conference, 
small  island  developing  States  such  as  ours  stand  to 
benefit from the technical assistance, capacity-building 
and transfer of technology that the Agency offers. We 
look  forward  to  working  with  Grenada  as  its  newest 
member.  My  delegation  would  also  like  to  recognize 
the member States that have contributed to the IAEA’s 
Technical Cooperation Fund and encourage those in a 
position to do so to continue to support it in order to 
ensure  that  its  resources  are  commensurate  with  the 
increase in its membership and the growing demand for 
its assistance.
Jamaica  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  IAEA  to 
support  national  efforts  aimed  at  advancing 
the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  believe  that  that  augurs  well  for 
greater synergy between national development priorities 
and IAEA assistance within the broader United Nations 
Development  Assistance  Framework.  We  encourage 
further work in that regard. In conclusion, I would like 
to  reiterate  Jamaica’s  strong  commitment  to  working 
with the IAEA and supporting its efforts in the years 
to come.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
country  reiterates  its  commitment  to  all  international 
conventions  in  the  area  of  disarmament,  particularly 
those  concerning  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We 
will  continue  our  cooperation  with  the  international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  to  support  efforts 
to  implement  those  instruments  and  to  establish  an 
environment  conducive  to  achieving  a  world  free 
from  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  based  on  our 
understanding  of  the  disasters  that  can  result  from 
such  weapons,  especially  nuclear  weapons.  In  2003, 
we  were  quick  to  voluntarily  declare  the  dismantling 
of  our  nuclear-weapon  programme  and  to  accede  to 
the  additional  protocols  and  safeguards  regime  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  in 
view  of  the  serious  threat  that  such  weapons  pose  to 
international  peace  and  security,  particularly  where 
accountability and wisdom are lacking.
Like the rest of the international community, we are 
concerned about the use or threat of use of such weapons. 
Having reviewed the report of the IAEA (see A/72/221), 
we note the increasing awareness and realization of the 
international  community  that  international  peace  and 
security cannot be achieved while some States possess 
certain weapons that they could use or threaten to use. 
Instead, the nuclear arms race should end. The best way 
to  ensure  that  nuclear  weapons  are  not  used  is  not  to 
produce or test them but to destroy their stocks through 
stringent  international  verification,  and  to  encourage 
productive cooperation among States whereby nuclear 
energy  is  used  for  development  and  in  the  service  of 
humankind. The role of the IAEA should not be limited 
to converting nuclear material from nuclear to peaceful 
uses  but  should  include  verifying  nuclear-weapon 
States’ reduction and dismantling of their arsenals.
At  the  same  time,  along  with  the  rest  of  the 
international community, we look forward to significant 
progress being made in implementing the provisions of 
the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The 
Assembly’s  meeting  on  the  subject  was  held  decades 
after  the  original  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  was  concluded.  Concerns 
remain, however, given that a small number of States 
still  maintain  their  nuclear  arsenals  and  others  are 
joining their ranks. We can therefore never achieve our 
goal until non-nuclear-weapon States are convinced that 
the existing nuclear weapons will never be used and will 
all be dismantled. The non-discriminatory approach to 
the NPT requires balanced implementation of its three 
8/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
pillars  —  nuclear  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and 
the peaceful and transparent use of nuclear technology.
My  country  appreciates  the  IAEA’s  efforts  to 
support States in the peaceful use of nuclear energy and 
in  carrying  out  their  development  programmes  under 
the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  monitored 
by  the  Agency.  We  call  on  all  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations to continue to support the Programme 
and  the  Agency’s  other  monitoring  and  verification 
programmes.  Strengthening  the  Agency’s  safeguards 
regime should not adversely affect technical cooperation 
and  assistance.  We  are  concerned  about  the  fact  that 
some nuclear-weapon States have a policy of restricting 
other States’ transfer of nuclear technology for peaceful 
purposes,  contravening  article  IV  of  the  NPT  and 
hampering the Technical Cooperation Programme.
We  once  again  underscore  the  importance  of 
implementing  Security  Council  resolution  487  (1981), 
on establishing a zone in the Middle East free of nuclear 
weapons, as well as of the decision of the 1995 Review 
and Extension Conference of the Parties to the NPT on 
the indefinite extension of the Treaty. That will remain 
valid until its objectives are achieved.
Israel continues to defy the international community. 
It has not acceded to the NPT and refuses to subject its 
nuclear facilities to IAEA safeguards. That is a source 
of  deep  concern  that  is  having  a  negative  impact  on 
international and regional peace and security. We call 
on  the  international  community  and  the  depositary 
States  to  compel  Israel  to  accede  to  the  Treaty  as  a 
non-nuclear-weapon State.
Ms. Aloysius Dris (Malaysia): Malaysia takes this 
opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  for  his  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of 
the  Agency  (see  A/72/221),  which  covers  the  period 
from 1 January to 31 December 2016. We commend the 
Director General for his commitment and stewardship 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Malaysia  welcomes  the  2016  IAEA  report,  which 
provides  a  comprehensive  summary  of  the  activities 
undertaken by the Agency in consultation with Member 
States in the areas of nuclear technology, nuclear safety 
and  security  and  nuclear  verification  and  technical 
cooperation.  We  recognize  the  central  role  played  by 
the  IAEA  in  coordinating  international  cooperation 
and  its  increasingly  important  contributions  in  the 
nuclear  field  towards  achieving  the  primary  goal  of 
atoms  for  peace  and  development.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation would like to highlight the following areas 
of Malaysia’s priorities and achievements this year.
We  recognize  that  IAEA  safeguards  serve  as  a 
fundamental  pillar  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime. We also recognize the Agency’s indispensable 
role  in  the  implementation  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  We  note  the 
important  role  that  it  has  played  in  monitoring  and 
verification  activities  and  recognize  it  as  the  sole 
competent  technical  authority  for  the  independent 
verification  of  the  nuclear  safeguard  obligations  of 
Member States.
Malaysia  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  2018-
2021  IAEA  Nuclear  Security  Plan.  Malaysia-IAEA 
collaboration  has  been  fruitful,  with  several  joint 
activities  in  the  nuclear  security  field,  namely,  the 
Malaysia-Thailand  table-top  and  field  exercise  on 
combating the illicit trafficking of radioactive materials, 
the  development  of  borehole  disposal  and  the  mobile 
hot  cell  facility.  We  look  forward  to  strengthening 
our  collaboration  with  the  IAEA  through  the  further 
participation  of  Malaysian  experts  in  IAEA  activities 
and  programmes.  We  greatly  appreciate  the  Agency’s 
support  aimed  at  strengthening  Malaysia’s  national 
detection capabilities in combating nuclear terrorism at 
the recent 2017 Southeast Asian Games, held in Kuala 
Lumpur.  The  benefits  of  nuclear  security  justify  our 
funding  of  those  activities  through  both  the  regular 
budget and the Nuclear Security Fund.
My  delegation  attaches  great 
to 
strengthening  all  aspects  of  nuclear  safety.  Malaysia 
enjoys  ongoing  cooperation  with 
in 
radiation protection and safety, research reactor safety, 
radiological-emergency environmental monitoring and 
the  safety  of  spent  fuel  management  and  radioactive 
waste  management.  We  will  continue  to  work  closely 
with  the  Agency  and  other  IAEA  member  States  to 
improve and strengthen the relevant aspects of nuclear 
safety, according to the safety priorities identified in the 
Director  General’s  report  on  the  2018  Nuclear  Safety 
Review. The successful hosting of the first international 
conference  of  the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
in Vienna reaffirms the important role of the Agency 
in  bringing  Member  States  closer  to  achieving  their 
developmental goals and priorities.
importance 
the 
IAEA 
Malaysia recognizes the important roles played by 
nuclear  science,  technology  and  applications,  and  by 
17-37449
9/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
nuclear-power  and  non-nuclear-power  applications  in 
efforts  to  realize  the  2030  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  In  line  with  our  collective  and  shared 
responsibilities towards the achievement of the SDGs, 
Malaysia  and  Botswana  partnered  with  the  Agency 
to  host  a  side  event  on  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
technology  for  development  in  efforts  to  support  the 
implementation of SDG Goal 1 on ending poverty, Goal 
2 on food security, Goal 3 on human health and Goal 
9  on  infrastructure,  industrialization  and  innovation. 
That took place on the margins of the United Nations 
high-level political forum on sustainable development, 
held from 10 to 19 July in New York.
that 
We  believe 
the  2018  ministerial-level 
conference  on  nuclear  applications  and  the  recent 
2017  International  Ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear 
Power  in  the  Twenty-First  Century  in  Abu  Dhabi  can 
make  invaluable  contributions  to  the  achievement  of 
the  SDGs.  In  line  with  Malaysia’s  eleventh  five-year 
plan,  “Anchoring  growth  on  people”,  we  successfully 
hosted  a  seminar  with  the  Agency  at  the  Malaysian 
Nuclear Agency from 24 to 26 July to promote greater 
awareness  of  the  contributions  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology to socioeconomic development.
Malaysia  regards  the  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative  as 
a  very  important  vehicle  for  supporting  the  Agency’s 
activities related to the peaceful applications of science 
and  technology.  We  are  pleased  to  be  one  of  the 
contributors  to  the  Initiative,  given  its  important  role 
in  raising  extrabudgetary  resources  to  support  many 
activities related to peaceful purposes.
Research  and  development  play  critical  roles 
in  realizing  the  long-term  goals  of  nuclear  science 
and  technology  for  the  collective  benefit  of  member 
States  and  the  Agency.  Malaysia  fully  recognizes 
the  contribution  of  the  renovation  of  the  Nuclear 
Applications  Laboratories  to  scientific  and  research 
activities.  We  appreciate  the  Agency’s  recognition  of 
our expertise in the research and development field. We 
are honoured to be the IAEA Collaborating Centre in 
the  field  of  non-destructive  testing  for  the  term  from 
2015  to  2019  and  in  the  area  of  radiation  processing 
of natural polymer and nanomaterials for a third term 
from 2016 to 2020. We look forward to receiving similar 
recognition for the Gamma Green House. As the IAEA 
Collaborating Centre, Malaysia is committed to sharing 
its experience and expertise in those fields with other 
countries through training and fellowship programmes.
Notwithstanding  our  firm  principle  of  striking  a 
balance  between  promotional  and  non-promotional 
activities,  Malaysia  believes  that  all  programmes  and 
activities  of  the  Agency  have  equal  merit.  Malaysia 
continues to honour its contributions to both the IAEA 
regular  budget  and  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund 
in full and on time. We encourage all Member States 
to do likewise so as to enable the Agency to fulfil its 
responsibility in accordance with its statutory mandate.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reaffirm 
Malaysia’s commitment to continuing its long-standing 
cooperation in the work of the Agency as it fulfils its 
mandate. In that regard, Malaysia is pleased to sponsor 
the  draft  resolution  (A/72/L.6)  on  the  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  at  the  seventy-
second session of the General Assembly.
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
like to begin by thanking the Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  his 
report (see A/72/221).
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  underscores  the 
importance of ensuring that all States can fully realize 
their inalienable right to develop, research, produce and 
use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. That includes 
the  inherent  right  of  every  State  to  participate  to  the 
greatest extent possible in the exchange of equipment, 
material  and  scientific  and  technological  information 
relating  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  As 
article II of the Statute of the IAEA states,
  “The  Agency  shall  seek  to  accelerate  and 
enlarge the contribution of atomic energy to peace, 
health and prosperity throughout the world.”
  In  that  context,  Iran  emphasizes  the  Agency’s 
primary  responsibility  for  assisting  Member  States  in 
research on nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and 
its  practical  applications.  Iran  appreciates  the  related 
activities of the Agency and stresses the need for further 
enhancing them with a view, in particular, to meeting 
the expectations of developing countries.
We  should  ensure  that  the  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme of the Agency remains fair and sustainable 
through  sufficient,  assured  and  predictable  financial 
and human resources. Iran emphasizes that the IAEA, 
as  an  independent  intergovernmental,  science-  and 
technology-based  organization,  is  the  sole  global 
competent  authority 
for  verifying  a 
State’s compliance with its NPT safeguards agreement 
responsible 
10/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
obligations. With regard to the role and functions of the 
IAEA in implementing the safeguards agreements, Iran 
would  like  to  stress  that  all  such  activities  should  be 
carried out in full conformity with the relevant legally 
binding  instruments  and  should  take  into  account  the 
concerns  and  interests  of  Member  States,  especially 
with strict observance of the principle of confidentiality.
Taking  into  account  the  growing  use  of  nuclear 
energy and its role in the socioeconomic development of 
societies, Iran is determined to exercise its inalienable 
right  to  conduct  research  into  the  production  and  use 
of  nuclear  energy,  including  the  development  of  the 
full national nuclear fuel cycle for peaceful purposes. 
Iran’s  compliance  with  all  its  obligations  under  its 
NPT  Safeguards  Agreement  and  the  fulfilment  of  its 
commitments  under  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action  (JCPOA)  have  been  confirmed  in  numerous 
reports  by  the  IAEA  as  the  sole  relevant  competent 
international authority. Any claim, therefore, that Iran 
is  not  complying  with  its  JCPOA  commitments  has 
no  legitimacy  or  credibility.  As  a  valid  international 
instrument, the JCPOA can neither be renegotiated nor 
unilaterally  annulled.  Likewise,  any  unilateral  claim 
seeking  to  extend  the  duration  of  Iran’s  voluntary 
confidence-building  measures  runs  counter  to  the 
JCPOA and, more importantly, clearly runs counter to 
the inalienable rights of States under the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
Iran  has  been  and  will  remain  committed  to  the 
JCPOA, to the extent that all other JCPOA participants 
also fulfil all their commitments fully and in a timely 
manner.  JCPOA  participants  are  therefore  urged    to 
genuinely carry out all their commitments and to refrain 
from any action that is inconsistent with its provisions. 
Indeed,  that  is  in  the  interests  of  the  international 
community  and  all  JCPOA  participants.  The  current 
support for the full implementation of the JCPOA by all 
its participants should therefore continue.
Mr.  Hahn  Choonghee  (Republic  of  Korea):  As  a 
founding member of the  International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA), the Republic of Korea attaches great 
importance  to  the  work  of  the  IAEA  and  remains  a 
firm supporter of the Agency’s unique role in making 
nuclear  science  and  technology  available  for  the 
benefit of people everywhere. I would like to express 
my  appreciation  to  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano 
for his leadership at a time when the IAEA’s mandate 
for  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
enhancing nuclear safety and security and strengthening 
nuclear  verification  and  non-proliferation  efforts 
throughout the world is as relevant as ever to the issues 
on the international agenda.
Nuclear  verification  is  a  central  pillar  of  the 
indispensable  role 
Agency’s  work  and  plays  an 
in  preventing 
the  spread  of  nuclear  weapons. 
The  Republic  of  Korea  considers  the  evolution  of 
safeguards  implementation  to  be  an  essential  means 
of  strengthening  the  effectiveness  and  improving  the 
efficiency  of  the  Agency’s  verification  regime.  In 
that regard, we note with satisfaction that in 2016 the 
Agency continued to enhance safeguards by updating 
and  developing  State-level  safeguards  approaches  in 
consultation with the relevant authorities.
With  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  welcomes  the  Agency’s  continued 
verification  and  monitoring  of  Iran’s  implementation 
of  its  nuclear-related  commitments  under  the  Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action. Given the significance 
of the additional protocol in allowing the IAEA to draw 
the  broader  conclusion  that  all  nuclear  material  in  a 
State is for peaceful activities, we hope that Iran will 
continue to provisionally apply its Additional Protocol 
pending its ratification.
On 3 September, North Korea conducted its sixth 
nuclear test on the heels of two previous tests last year 
and  many  ballistic-missile  launches,  including  two 
intercontinental  range  missiles,  in  clear  violation  of 
Security  Council  resolutions.  The  Government  of  the 
Republic  of  Korea  strongly  condemns  North  Korea’s 
reckless  and  irresponsible  nuclear  test.  Far  from 
revealing any signs that North Korea is abandoning its 
nuclear and ballistic-missile programmes, the Director 
General’s  report  (see  A/72/221)  indicates  troubling 
nuclear activities at the Yongbyon site and the Pyongsan 
Mine and Concentration Plant.
North  Korea’s  continuous  negative  response  to 
the 
international  community’s  diplomatic  efforts 
underlines  the  importance  of  reiterating  a  strong  and 
unified  message  that  the  path  to  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity  hinges  on  its  willingness  to  engage  in 
meaningful  dialogue  and  honour  its  denuclearization 
commitments.  In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Korea 
welcomes  and  fully  supports  the  Security  Council’s 
unanimous  adoption  of  resolution  2375  (2017)  on 
11  September.  It  is  essential  that  all  States  Members 
of the United Nations make clear to North Korea that 
it  will  face  serious  consequences  unless  it  changes 
17-37449
11/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
its  strategic  calculus  by  faithfully  implementing  all 
relevant Security Council resolutions.
The  unanimous  adoption  of  a  stronger  resolution 
on the subject at this year’s IAEA General Conference 
is  likewise  a  welcome  development  that  underlines 
the  international  community’s  common  desire  for  a 
peaceful  and  diplomatic  solution  to  the  situation.  We 
once again urge North Korea to take its first steps on 
the  path  of  denuclearization  and  lasting  peace  on  the 
Korean peninsula. To that end, we call on North Korea 
to  abandon  all  nuclear  weapons  and  existing  nuclear 
programmes in a complete, verifiable and irreversible 
manner,  and  to  refrain  from  any  further  provocative 
and destabilizing acts.
In the meantime, the Republic of Korea appreciates 
the  IAEA’s  recent  efforts  to  enhance  its  readiness  to 
verify  North  Korea’s  nuclear  programme,  including 
the establishment of the North Korea inspection team. 
Until  the  Agency  is  able  to  resume  monitoring  and 
verification there, the Republic of Korea will work with 
its  partners  to  maintain  vigilance  and  to  coordinate 
the  international  community’s  constructive  response 
to  the  North  Korean  nuclear  issue  with  a  view  to  its 
peaceful resolution.
One  of  the  priorities  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-second  session  is  maintaining  momentum 
in  implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs).  In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Korea  notes 
with  satisfaction  that  during  the  past  year  the  IAEA 
continued to promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy 
by  contributing  to  sustainable  development.  Through 
its  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  the  Agency 
continued to develop and transfer nuclear technologies 
to  Member  States,  helping  them  build  their  human 
capacity  for  sustainable  development  and  use  nuclear 
and  isotopic  techniques  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  related  to  food  and  agriculture, 
human  health,  water  resources,  the  environment, 
radioisotope production and radiation technology.
and raising its visibility by securing partnerships and 
cooperation with the United Nations system and other 
international organizations.
Given  the  essential  role  of  nuclear  safety  in  the 
utilization  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes, 
my delegation welcomes the IAEA’s ongoing efforts to 
identify priorities for strengthening nuclear, radiation, 
transport  and  waste  safety,  and  for  emergency 
preparedness and response. In that regard, we note that 
the IAEA is continuing its analysis of lessons arising 
from  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  accident  and  that  those 
lessons have been incorporated into a number of safety 
requirements  published  last  year.  We  also  encourage 
all  Member  States  to  take  advantage  of  the  Agency’s 
peer  reviews  and  advisory  services,  especially  those 
Member  States  embarking  on  a  new  nuclear-power 
programme or expanding an existing one, as they have 
proved  invaluable  in  establishing  and  strengthening 
national safety infrastructure.
The risk that nuclear or other radioactive material 
could be used in criminal or intentional unauthorized 
acts concerns not just individual Member States but the 
entire  international  community.  While  responsibility 
for  nuclear  security  rests  entirely  within  a  State, 
therefore, it can be greatly enhanced through collective 
commitments  supported  by  national  actions  and 
international cooperation.
For  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  highlight  of  this 
year’s  activities  in  the  field  of  nuclear  security  was 
the  International  Conference  on  Nuclear  Security: 
Commitments and Actions, held in Vienna in December 
2016. It was a valuable exercise for sharing experiences, 
discussing lessons learned, identifying emerging trends 
and considering the medium- and long-term objectives 
relating  to  nuclear  security  globally.  Participants  also 
expressed  broad  support  for  the  central  role  of  the 
IAEA in nuclear security. Korea will work with other 
member States to reinforce the IAEA’s central role with 
tangible support.
As a contributor to the Technical Cooperation Fund, 
the Republic of Korea stresses the need for funding its 
programmes  adequately  in  order  to  maximize  their 
contribution  to  the  achievement  of  the  SDGs  and 
their targets. We believe that full and timely payment 
of pledges to the Fund remains a basic responsibility for 
all IAEA member States, and we look forward to seeing 
the  secretariat  make  further  progress  in  improving 
the  quality  of  the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
The  entry  into  force  of  the  amendment  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material  in  May  2016  was  a  milestone  in  efforts  to 
strengthen  nuclear  security.  The  Republic  of  Korea 
contributed  actively  to  the  second  meeting  of  the 
representatives of the States parties to the Convention 
and  its  amendment  last  December.  We  welcome  the 
focus of the IAEA secretariat on promoting universal 
adherence  to  the  amendment,  and  we  encourage  all 
12/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
States parties to establish, implement and maintain an 
appropriate  nuclear-security  regime  for  the  physical 
protection of nuclear facilities and nuclear material in 
peaceful use.
The peaceful uses of nuclear science and technology 
have made significant contributions to human welfare, 
our planet and our shared prosperity since the IAEA’s 
founding  in  1957.  That  the  IAEA  continues  to  serve 
the  international  community  well  is  reflected  in  the 
continued  growth  both  in  its  membership  and  in 
demands for its services in all areas of nuclear sciences 
and applications. The Republic of Korea will continue 
its steadfast support for the IAEA and its mandate, and 
is pleased to join the other sponsors of draft resolution 
A/72/L.6, on the report of the IAEA.
Ms. Goh Yan Kim (Singapore): On behalf of my 
delegation, I thank Director General Yukiya Amano for 
the comprehensive annual report (see A/72/221) of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  We  would  also 
like to reiterate our congratulations to Director General 
Amano on his re-election for a third term. He can count 
on Singapore’s full support and cooperation.
Singapore  is  pleased  to  once  again  be  a  sponsor 
of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.6,  on  the  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  and 
would like to express its appreciation to the Permanent 
Mission of Indonesia for its excellent work in facilitating 
the  draft  resolution.  I  would  now  like  to  make  a  few 
brief points on the work of the IAEA.
First,  Singapore  and  the  IAEA  have  developed  a 
strong partnership over the years. This year marks the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  our  membership  in  the  IAEA. 
which we joined back in 1967, shortly after gaining our 
independence. At the time, Singapore received valuable 
technical  assistance  from  the  IAEA  in  areas  such  as 
cancer treatment and radiation dosimetry with the aim 
of  improving  its  capabilities  in  critical  areas  such  as 
public health and radiation protection.
Having  benefited  from  the  IAEA’s  development 
assistance,  Singapore  is  now  giving  back  by  working 
with  the  Agency  to  provide  technical  assistance  to 
support  fellow  developing  countries  in  achieving 
their  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  We  formalized 
our long-standing partnership with the IAEA through 
the  enhanced  Singapore-IAEA  third-country  training 
programme  memorandum  of  understanding  signed 
during  Director  General  Amano’s  visit  to  Singapore 
in  January  2015.  Since  then,  we  have  hosted  many 
courses,  scientific  visits  and  training  fellowships  and 
will  continue  to  do  more.  Singapore  is  also  currently 
serving on the IAEA Board of Governors for the term 
2016  to  2018,  and  looks  forward  to  continuing  its 
contributions to the work of the Agency.
Secondly,  we  welcome  the  IAEA’s  partnerships 
at  the  regional  level.  All  10  States  members  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
have  concluded  safeguards  agreements  with 
the 
IAEA, in line with the provisions of the Treaty on the 
South-East  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone.  We  also 
support  technical  cooperation  between  the  IAEA  and 
the ASEAN Network of Regulatory Bodies on Atomic 
Energy, which is working closely with the IAEA on a 
regional  technical  cooperation  project  to  support  the 
establishment of a regional environmental radioactivity 
database and an emergency preparedness and response 
framework.  Singapore  will  continue  to  contribute 
to  capacity-building  activities  in  the  region  in  areas 
such  as  nuclear  safety  and  emergency  preparedness 
and  response  by  hosting  and  participating  in  regional 
training events.
Thirdly, Singapore supports the IAEA’s central role 
in ensuring a strong and sustainable global nuclear safety 
and security framework. In that regard, two important 
meetings  have  been  held  since  the  last  debate  —  the 
International Conference on Nuclear Security and the 
seventh Review Meeting of Contracting Parties to the 
Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety.  We  were  encouraged 
by  the  positive  developments  at  both  meetings.  The 
ministerial  Declaration  on  Nuclear  Safety  adopted 
by  consensus  at  the  International  Conference  on 
Nuclear  Security  reflects  the  collective  commitment 
of member States to strengthening nuclear security in 
a comprehensive manner. At the Review Meeting, we 
saw  a  number  of  the  Convention’s  contracting  parties 
apply the principles of the 2015 Vienna Declaration on 
Nuclear Safety to their national requirements.
Finally,  nuclear  installations  are  not  immune  to 
cyberattacks. Such risks are not imaginary and must be 
addressed.  A  comprehensive  and  sustainable  national 
nuclear-security architecture must include the element 
of cyberresilience. To that end, Singapore supports the 
IAEA’s work in developing additional nuclear-security 
guidance  on  computer  and  information  security  for 
nuclear installations and related training programmes.
Singapore  has  enjoyed  a  fruitful  partnership  with 
the  IAEA  for  the  past  50  years.  We  look  forward  to 
17-37449
13/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
deepening  our  cooperation  and  engagement  with  the 
Agency.  My  delegation  is  confident  that  our  mutual 
efforts to explore new areas of cooperation will ensure 
that  this  relationship  continues  to  flourish  for  years 
to come.
Mr. Bayyapu (India): On behalf of my delegation, 
I would like to thank Director General Yukiya Amano 
for  his  report.  The  report  (see  A/72/221)  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  is  an 
important element in our understanding of the essential 
tasks  that  the  Agency  performs  in  in  promoting  and 
ensuring the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
India  is  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.6, 
on  the  report  of  the  activities  of  the  IAEA.  Today’s 
debate  is  an  important  occasion  for  reflecting  on  the 
critical  role  that  the  IAEA  has  played  in  discharging 
its  mandate  to  support  countries  in  the  safe  and 
secure  pursuit  of  nuclear  power  and  in  its  technical 
cooperation activities, bringing nuclear applications to 
its  Member  States.  India  regards  nuclear  power  as  an 
important energy option needed to meet the challenges 
of increased demand, deal with concerns over climate 
change  and  volatile  fossil-fuel  prices,  and  ensure  the 
security of energy supply. We note that 10 new reactors 
were connected to the grid in 2016 and that the global 
generating  capacity  of  nuclear  energy  reached  392 
gigawatts electric at the end of 2016.
We 
take  note  of 
the  Agency’s  efforts 
in 
promoting  the  role  of  nuclear  technology  to  meet  the 
climate-energy  challenge.  We  encourage  the  Agency 
to remain engaged in activities that present a balanced 
picture  of  nuclear  power  and  its  mitigation  potential 
against  greenhouse-gas  emissions.  We  appreciate 
the  Agency’s  role  in  providing  integrated  support  to 
Member States that are considering, planning or starting 
a nuclear-power programme. In that context, the recent 
International Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Power 
in  the  Twenty-first  Century  in  Abu  Dhabi  reiterated 
the important contribution of nuclear power to efforts 
to meet the targets set out in the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change.
India  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Agency’s 
work in various fields of nuclear science. We contribute 
to those activities through participation in the technical 
meetings  and  coordinated  research  projects.  The 
Agency’s programmes and work in the area of nuclear 
applications in food and agriculture, human health and 
nutrition, water resources management, the protection 
of  the  environment,  and  industry  have  been  most 
helpful to developing countries in meeting their needs. 
We will continue to provide our support to such Agency 
programmes through the provision  of expert services 
and by offering training slots in reputed institutions to 
experts from Member States.
We support the central role of the IAEA in the area 
of nuclear security. India was one of the first to ratify the 
amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection 
of  Nuclear  Material  and  was  pleased  to  see  the  entry 
into  force  of  the  amendment  last  year.  We  encourage 
all  those  Member  States  that  have  not  yet  joined  or 
ratified the Convention and its 2005 amendment to do 
so as soon as possible. We are also pleased to note that 
the Agency is organizing the International Conference 
on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and Nuclear 
Facilities next week in Vienna.
We take note of the successful organization by the 
Agency in December 2016 in Vienna of the International 
Conference  on  Nuclear  Security,  attended  by  some 
2,100  participants, 
including  47  ministerial-level 
representatives  from  139  United  Nations  Member 
States. The Agency should build on the findings of the 
Conference in close consultation with Member States.
We  note  with  satisfaction  the  financial  pledges 
made by Member States of €47.4 million in 2016 towards 
the Agency’s Nuclear Security Fund, and we urge more 
Member States to participate in the Fund. India remains 
committed to supporting the work of the IAEA.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese delegation welcomes the report (see A/72/221) 
presented by Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  on 
the work of the Agency.
Over  the  past  year,  the  IAEA  has  effectively 
fulfilled  its  obligations  under  the  Statute  and  made 
positive  progress  in  promoting  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy  and  nuclear  technology,  strengthening  nuclear 
safety  and  nuclear  security,  and  maintaining  nuclear 
non-proliferation.  China  appreciates  the  hard  work 
done by the Agency. At present, the momentum behind 
global  nuclear  energy  continues  to  grow.  Against 
the  backdrop  of  the  adoption  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  nuclear  energy 
is  expected  to  play  an  increasingly  important  role  in 
ensuring  energy  supplies,  mitigating  climate  change 
and  achieving  sustainable  development.  The  use  of 
14/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
nuclear technology in promoting economic development 
and serving human health is increasingly widespread. 
However,  the  international  nuclear-non-proliferation 
situation  is  grave.  Nuclear  safety  still  needs  to  be 
strengthened, and nuclear security risks keep on rising. 
Global  nuclear  governance  still  has  a  long,  arduous 
road ahead. China hopes that the Agency will focus on 
the following aspects in its future work.
First,  we  hope  the  Agency  will  enhance  the 
universality, effectiveness and fairness of its safeguards 
system.  The 
international  nuclear-non-proliferation 
regime faces daunting challenges, as some States still 
have not acceded to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. There continues to be a deadlock 
with  regard  to  the  establishment  of  a  zone  free  of 
weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. The 
Agency  should  continue  to  enhance  the  universality 
and  effectiveness  of  its  safeguards  system  with  a 
view  to  ensuring  impartiality  and  objectiveness  and 
conducting  full  consultations  with  Member  States. 
We  hope  that  the  IAEA  secretariat  will  continue  its 
dialogue  and  communication  with  Member  States  on 
the implementation of safeguards at the State level.
Secondly, we hope that the Agency will promote the 
application  of  nuclear  energy  and  nuclear  technology, 
and  increase  the  amount  of  assistance  provided  to 
developing  countries.  China  encourages  the  Agency 
to advance and coordinate nuclear technical exchanges 
and  cooperation  by  increasing  the  investment  of  its 
resources in such activities and taking full account of 
the  demand  of  developing  countries,  in  order  to  help 
Member  States  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  and  share  the  benefits  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear energy.
Thirdly, we hope that the Agency will play a core 
role in strengthening global nuclear safety and nuclear 
security.  China  supports  Agency  efforts  to  promote 
the implementation of its nuclear safety standards and 
security guidelines, strengthen its peer review services, 
and facilitate the capacity-building of Member States, 
so  as  to  increase  the  international  nuclear-safety  and 
nuclear-security  levels.  The  Agency  should  continue 
to  follow  and  assess  the  follow-up  handling  of  the 
Fukushima Daiichi accident, and make timely reports 
to Member States.
Fourthly, we hope that the Agency will be impartial 
and  objective  and  continue  to  help  address  regional 
hot-spot  nuclear  issues.  China  appreciates  the  efforts 
made by the Agency to facilitate the implementation of 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and supports 
its  monitoring  and  verification  mandate.  China  also 
supports the Agency in its proper role of monitoring the 
nuclear activities of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea in accordance with its mandate.
In  its  nuclear  energy  development,  China  has 
always adhered to a sensible, coordinated and balanced 
approach to nuclear security, as developed by President 
Xi  Jinping.  Currently,  we  are  fully  implementing  the 
practical initiatives put forward by President Xi at the 
Nuclear  Security  Summit  in  Washington,  D.C.  China 
recently promulgated a nuclear-safety law, which will 
provide  strong  support  for  the  safe  and  sustainable 
development  of  nuclear  energy  in  China.  A  transit 
agreement for the transport of low-enriched uranium in 
support of the Low Enriched Uranium Bank was signed 
between  China  and  the  IAEA  last  April,  which  will 
contribute to the Uranium Bank’s successful operation.
Moreover,  China  has  cooperated  closely  with  the 
Agency,  Ghana,  the  United  States  and  several  other 
countries.  In  Africa,  China  successfully  completed 
the  Ghana  Miniature  Neutron  Source  Reactor  Low-
Enriched  Uranium  Conversion  Project  last  August. 
China will continue to assist in Nigeria and other places 
in the conversion of miniature neutron source research 
reactors, based on the Ghana model. By making full use 
of the Centre of Excellence on Nuclear Security and the 
Custom Training Centre for Radiation Detection, China 
is ready to work with all parties on more exchange and 
training  programmes  in  order  to  provide  more  public 
good for the rest of the world.
Mr.  Almazrouei  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  the 
appreciation  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  for  the 
collaborative  work  carried  out  by  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  I  would  also  like 
to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  commendable 
leadership  of  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA, 
Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  and  to  congratulate  him  on  his 
reappointment.
We  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of  draft 
resolution A/72/L.6, entitled “Report of the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  of  which  my  country  is  a 
sponsor.  Since  joining  the  IAEA,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates has recognized the pivotal role undertaken by 
the  Agency  in  promoting  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
technology  for  the  development  of  national  nuclear-
17-37449
15/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
energy  programmes  and  other  peaceful  applications 
of  nuclear  technology.  The  Agency  continues  to  play 
its  key  role  in  supporting  the  exchange  of  scientific 
knowledge and nuclear expertise among its members.
In that regard, the United Arab Emirates reaffirms 
its position regarding the importance of working closely 
in  accordance  with  the  standards  of  the  IAEA  in  the 
area of nuclear safety and of complying with the IAEA 
standards on nuclear security and non-proliferation.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  also  commends  the 
central  role  played  by  the  Agency  in  the  transfer  of 
technology and knowledge with the aim of supporting 
the  development  needs  of  Member  States.  The  IAEA 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  contributes  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
promotes  cooperation  through  the  exchange  of  best 
practices  and  strategic  partnerships  and  provides 
valuable  services 
the  areas  of  development, 
infrastructure  and  human  resources  for  a  safe  and 
successful nuclear programme.
in 
In  conclusion,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  looks 
forward  to  continuing  cooperation  with  the  Agency 
and  the  international  community  in  order  to  ensure 
the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  guarantee  the 
responsible  and  safe  nature  of  nuclear  activities.  The 
Emirates also expresses its appreciation to the Director 
General and the IAEA secretariat for their hard work 
and the achievements of the Agency, as indicated in its 
annual report (see A/72/221) for 2016.
Mr.  Lozinskiy  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  thanks  the  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), Mr. Yukiya Amano, for presenting the report 
(see A/72/221) on the work of the organization he heads. 
Russia takes a positive view of the activities of the IAEA. 
We hope that the Agency will continue to increase its 
efforts to develop nuclear energy and technologies all 
over the world and to broaden international cooperation 
in those areas while improving and strengthening the 
global non-proliferation regime.
The uniqueness of the IAEA verification mechanism 
enables  its  highly  effective  monitoring  of  States’ 
fulfilment  of  their  non-proliferation  commitments  in 
the  context  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons. One of the central achievements in 
that direction is the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
(JCPOA) on the situation relating to the Iranian nuclear 
programme. To date, Iran is the country verified most 
by  the  IAEA.  The  Agency  quickly  established  a  very 
strict verification mechanism and is dealing effectively 
with its challenges, enabling it to monitor all aspects of 
the implementation of the JCPOA and the application of 
safeguards in Iran.
For our part, we provide various forms of support 
to the Agency with regard to Iran, including organizing 
targeted  training  courses  for  inspectors  on  uranium 
enrichment and the production of stable isotopes. The 
Director General has regularly mentioned in his reports 
that Tehran is fulfilling the obligations it assumed under 
the  JCPOA,  in  addition  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Additional Protocol to Iran’s Safeguards Agreement.
The  Russian  delegation  is  in  favour  of  improving 
the  Agency’s  monitoring  capabilities,  including  by 
adopting  the  additional  protocol  on  IAEA  safeguards 
as  a  universally  recognized  standard  for  verification 
in  the  field  of  non-proliferation.  Whatever  reforms  of 
the safeguards are undertaken, the mechanism of their 
application  should  remain  objective,  depoliticized, 
technically precise and understandable to the Agency’s 
member States, as well as being based on the rights and 
obligations of the parties in accordance with safeguards 
agreements.  An  unbiased,  objective  approach 
to 
nuclear  verification  is  a  key  element  in  maintaining 
the legitimacy of the IAEA Comprehensive Safeguards 
System  and  of  the  regime  of  the  non-proliferation  of 
nuclear weapons in general.
Russia  actively  participates  in  IAEA  activities 
as  a  financial  donor,  including  by  making  voluntary 
contributions to the International Project on Innovative 
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles,  the  Technical 
Cooperation Fund and the Nuclear Security Fund. 
We  wholeheartedly  support  the  Agency’s  efforts 
in  the  field  of  technical  cooperation  and  related 
assistance to developing countries and, for our part, we 
actively promote the development of nuclear energy in 
other countries. In 2015 and 2016, we signed agreements 
on peaceful nuclear cooperation with Bolivia, Ghana, 
Zambia,  Jordan,  Cuba,  Saudi  Arabia  and  Tunisia.  In 
that  regard,  we  would  also  like  to  draw  attention  to 
the  fact  that  the  International  Uranium  Enrichment 
Center is functioning on Russian Federation territory, 
and  all  States  that  are  developing  nuclear  energy  and 
complying with their commitments on non-proliferation 
are invited to participate in its activities.
The  Russian  Federation  supports  the  work  of  the 
Agency and emphasizes its leading role in establishing 
16/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
cooperation  between  States  and 
in  exchanging 
experience in the field of physical nuclear security. At 
the same time, we firmly believe that the responsibility 
for  ensuring  the  efficiency  and  reliability  of  national 
systems  in  that  field  is  borne  by  States  themselves, 
defining the optimal parameters at their discretion.
We  would  also  like  to  emphasize  that  artificially 
introducing  the  disarmament  agenda  into  issues  of 
physical  nuclear  security  is  inadmissible.  The  key 
to  success  for  the  international  community  on  that 
sensitive  issue  is  the  broadest  possible  representation 
of States in international legal mechanisms on physical 
nuclear  security  —  the  Convention  on  the  Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and its Amendment, as 
well as the International Convention for the Suppression 
of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  Russia  has  signed  and 
ratified those major international instruments, and we 
call on States that have not yet done so to expedite their 
internal procedures in order to accede to them.
The  Russian  delegation  supports  draft  resolution 
A/72/L.6, entitled “Report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency”, and is among its sponsors, given the 
importance of the Agency’s work in the interests of a 
reliable  energy  supply  and  strengthening  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime.
Mr.  Giacomelli  (Brazil):  Brazil  welcomes  draft 
resolution A/72/L.6, entitled “Report of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency”, to be adopted by the General 
Assembly. As we celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  this 
year,  Brazil  takes  pride  in  being  one  of  its  founding 
member States. Brazil has a deep-rooted commitment 
to  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  exclusively  for  peaceful 
purposes,  as  enshrined 
in  our  Constitution,  our 
legislative practice and the legally binding international 
agreements to which we have subscribed.
We  congratulate  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano  on  his 
appointment for a third term as IAEA Director General 
and  recognize  the  Agency’s  important  achievements 
during  his  tenure  in  office  so  far.  In  particular,  we 
commend  Mr.  Amano  on  his  important  role  in  the 
verification  activities  in  Iran  pursuant  to  the  Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). The impartial 
and objective manner in which the IAEA has conducted 
its duties in Iran, in accordance with the modalities set 
out  by  the  JCPOA  and  standard  safeguards  practices, 
makes a meaningful contribution to international peace 
and stability.
Brazil recognizes the relevant efforts of the IAEA 
in promoting the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. The 
Agency  has  been  uniquely  positioned  to  encourage 
and  assist  in  the  development  and  transfer  of  nuclear 
technology  worldwide.  In  the  light  of  the  growing 
demand from Member States for services that help to 
improve the global standard of living, we emphasize the 
need  to  further  strengthen  the  Agency’s  departments 
of 
sciences 
and applications.
technical  cooperation  and  nuclear 
the 
Brazil  fully  supports 
implementation  of 
safeguards by the IAEA and the efforts undertaken by the 
Secretariat to enhance further cost-efficient measures. 
We deem it important that States fulfil their obligations 
and  that  the  Agency  operate  within  the  established 
framework,  taking  into  account  the  different  scope 
and  safeguards  measures  deriving  from  the  distinct 
categories  of  agreements  entered  into  by  member 
States.  Brazil  appreciates  the  effective  cooperation 
between the IAEA and the Brazilian-Argentine Agency 
for  Accounting  and  Control  of  Nuclear  Materials,  a 
unique and constructive partnership among multilateral 
and bilateral verification bodies.
Brazil  is  of  the  view  that  the  IAEA  can  play  an 
important  role  in  nuclear-disarmament  verification, 
given its indisputable technical capabilities, impartiality 
and professionalism and, last but not least, its statutory 
mandate.  This  year,  the  adoption  of  the  Treaty  on 
the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  was  a  robust 
expression  of  the  commitment  of  the  vast  majority  of 
the  international  community  to  nuclear  disarmament. 
We hope that the IAEA and its member States live up to 
these expectations.
We  regret  the  Director  General’s  decision  not  to 
send  a  representative  of  the  Agency  to  the  Treaty’s 
negotiating conference, despite its President’s request, 
because participating States could have benefited from 
the  Agency’s  technical  expertise.  It  is  our  hope  that 
the  IAEA  will  stand  ready  to  cooperate  with  States 
within  the  framework  of  the  Treaty  and  discharge  its 
verification measures if requested to do so.
Mr. Luque Márquez (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): 
I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA), for presenting his report (see A/72/221) 
to the General Assembly.
Sixty  years  ago,  against  the  backdrop  of  the 
Cold  War,  the  international  community  was  able  to 
17-37449
17/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
commit  to  advocating  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy,  while  for  the  time  being  disregarding  the 
priority  that  some  countries  attributed  to  deterrence, 
through the establishment of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency.
When the “atoms for peace” speech was delivered 
in this very Hall (see A/PV.470) by the then-President of 
the United States, Dwight Eisenhower, the possibilities 
of the peaceful use of nuclear energy were viewed with 
a  mixture  of  hope  and  scepticism,  in  clear  contrast 
to  the  catastrophic  humanitarian  consequences  that 
would  result  from  the  use  of  atomic  weapons  in  any 
form. That time has passed, and beyond analysing the 
intentions  motivating  that  speech,  we  can  still  hope 
that, if properly used and with the necessary safeguards 
in place, nuclear energy can effectively provide us with 
a means to achieving greater progress and well-being 
and thereby benefiting all humankind.
Ecuador  is  pleased  to  have  taken  part  in  the 
establishment of the IAEA, and we can testify to nuclear 
technology’s  important  contribution  to  developing 
critical important sectors, such as health care, the food 
industry, agriculture and industry. We hope to see the 
Agency become a fundamental actor in helping States 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Ecuador  underscores  the  essential  role  played 
by  the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme, 
and  acknowledges  the  IAEA’s  efforts  and  measures 
aimed  at  providing  a  more  effective  programme  that 
addresses member States’ priorities and is the result of 
a continuous process of consultations. Maintaining this 
approach  is  essential  to  promoting  national  efforts  in 
the area of   economic and social development, as well as 
to contributing meaningfully to achieving compliance 
with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
I would like to reiterate Ecuador’s gratitude for the 
invaluable  support  given  by  the  IAEA  following  the 
tragedy caused by the earthquake of 16 April 2016 in my 
country’s  intracoastal  waters,  which  measured  7.8  on 
the Richter scale and tragically left 660 persons dead, 
4,600  injured  and  34,000  homeless;  deprived  120,000 
children  of  school;  and  affected  approximately  700 
buildings,  including  16  hospitals.  The  sensitivity  and 
efficiency of Director General Amano and the Division 
for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  of  the  IAEA 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  enabled  the  IAEA 
to  give  timely  and  substantial  manner  assistance  by 
providing portable X-ray equipment, electric generators, 
teams dedicated to the early detection of the Zika virus, 
and  personal  radiation  detectors  —  all  of  which  was 
enormously useful in meeting the needs resulting from 
the emergency situation on the heels of the devastating 
earthquake. Ecuador particularly appreciated the visit 
by the Director General to Ecuador in June last year, 
when he was able to see for himself the area affected by 
the earthquake. The visit was an opportunity to explore 
additional assistance possibilities.
Within the framework of the Regional Cooperation 
Agreement  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear  Science  and 
Technology  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
Ecuador will have participated in 28 regional projects 
for the period from 2014 to 2018, and will participate in 
15 regional projects for the period from 2018 to 2019. 
On  29  November  2016,  Ecuador  signed  its  Country 
Programme  Framework  for  the  period  from  2016  to 
2021  with  the  IAEA.  This  document  is  the  frame  of 
reference  for  planning  technical  cooperation  with  the 
Agency, identifies priority areas relating to development 
mutually  agreed  on  by  Ecuador  and  the  Agency,  and 
establishes  to  what  extent  nuclear  technologies  can 
be  used  in  addressing  national  priorities,  taking  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  into  account.  The 
Country Programme Framework identifies health care, 
agriculture,  the  environment,  industry,  energy  and 
radiological safety as priority sectors.
I am also pleased to be able to inform the Assembly 
that on 29 September, Ecuador deposited its instrument 
of ratification of the 2005 amendment to the Convention 
on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material.
As  a  country  that  champions  peace  and  universal 
disarmament  and  condemns  the  development  and  use 
of weapons of mass destruction, Ecuador is concerned 
about  the  re-emergence  of  military  and  deterrence 
policies based on nuclear weapons as a presumed way 
of maintaining the security of a few States, while at the 
same time putting at risk the security of all humankind. 
We therefore reiterate that the only effective guarantee 
against the use or threat of the use of nuclear weapons 
is their total elimination.
We  maintain  our  firm  position  in  favour  of  the 
full  implementation  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
without prejudice or double standards, and we reiterate 
our concern that, while the Treaty’s goals with respect 
to non-proliferation and the exercise of the inalienable 
right to the peaceful use of nuclear energy have been 
18/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
implemented,  we  have  not  seen  further  progress  in 
achieving  the  goals  of  nuclear  disarmament.  With 
few  and  regrettable  exceptions,  the  vast  majority  of 
States,  including  Ecuador,  have  reiterated  their  deep 
concern  about  the  huge  humanitarian  consequences 
and  global  effects  of  any  accidental  or  intentional 
nuclear detonation.
A few of the States that claim to depend on nuclear 
weapons  for  their  security  —  although  we  recognize 
that the continued existence of those weapons is what 
creates  insecurity  —  have  tried  to  minimize  and 
even  deny  those  serious  consequences  using  skewed 
arguments. Ecuador will continue to reiterate that any 
use  of  nuclear  weapons  constitutes  a  crime  against 
humanity.  We  repeat  that  the  only  way  to  guarantee 
avoiding the use of nuclear weapons is their prohibition 
and total elimination.
For  that  reason,  Ecuador  welcomed  the  adoption 
in  July  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons, which a few hours ago Pope Francis cited as 
an example of healthy realism igniting the light of hope 
in  our  chaotic  world.  Ecuador  is  also  proud  to  have 
signed the Treaty on the day it opened for signature. The 
Treaty is the instrument necessary for bridging the legal 
gap  that  existed  in  international  law  and  is  therefore 
one  step  further  towards  full  compliance  with  article 
VI of the NPT. That has been mentioned many times, 
and yet is largely neglected, particularly by those who 
have the primary obligation to implement it. The Treaty 
on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons establishes the 
legal basis for the elimination of those weapons.
A  few  have  claimed  that  the  new  instrument  will 
weaken the regime created by the NPT. On the contrary, 
the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
adequately and effectively supplements the NPT, which 
is  recognized  in  the  text  of  the  Prohibition  Treaty 
as  the  cornerstone  of  the  nuclear-disarmament  and 
non-proliferation regime. Those that can and do truly 
weaken the existing regime are the States that now wish 
to disregard the commitments made at the 1995, 2000 
and 2010 NPT Review Conferences and the importance 
of article VI of the NPT.
In 
that 
regard,  Ecuador  has 
and 
unequivocally  condemned  the  most  recent  nuclear 
tests, and reiterates its call for the universalization of 
the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We also call on States that 
have  not  yet  done  so,  especially  the  Annex  2  States, 
to sign and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
firmly 
Treaty.  From  this  rostrum,  we  also  invite  all  States, 
beginning  with  nuclear-weapon  States,  to  adhere  to 
the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, as a 
concrete demonstration of their commitment to nuclear 
disarmament and the elimination of those weapons.
In conclusion, I should not fail to mention the Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA),  and  the  role 
that  the  IAEA  plays  in  verifying  its  implementation. 
The JCPOA was an excellent example of the fact that 
diplomacy and dialogue are the only way forward for 
resolving differences. We therefore encourage all of its 
parties to continue implementing its provisions.
By  endorsing  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action through its resolution 2231 (2015), the Security 
Council  determined  the  technical  role  of  verification 
to be the responsibility of the IAEA. Ecuador therefore 
once  again  welcomes  the  most  recent  report  of  the 
Director General of the IAEA, presented to the Board 
of Governors and to the Assembly this morning, which 
confirmed  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran’s  continued 
compliance with the Plan of Action. At the same time, 
we  express  our  concern  and  rejection  of  attempts  to 
politicize the work of the Agency in this or any other 
matter. We must all respect and enforce the technical 
role of the IAEA.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Once  again,  we  are  facing  a  number  of 
difficult  and  extremely  dangerous  global  challenges. 
At the forefront of these challenges is the existence of 
nuclear arsenals, including those of Israel, which pose 
a  threat  to  the  international  instruments  that  regulate 
non-proliferation.  As  we  meet  in  this  Hall,  nuclear-
weapon States that have acceded to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) threaten 
to use those weapons.
Everybody  here,  including  the  Director  General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
Mr. Yukiya Amano, is aware that the issue of nuclear 
non-proliferation  represents  a  key  priority  for  Syria, 
both in word and deed. Syria acceded to the NPT very 
early on, in 1968 — in other words, long before a number 
of countries in the European Union that claim to be in 
the  vanguard  of  the  non-proliferation  regime,  as  well 
as  Turkey,  which  is  a  member  of  NATO,  had  nuclear 
weapons  on  their  territories,  in  flagrant  violation  of 
articles I and II of the NPT.
My country signed its Safeguards Agreement with 
the Agency in 1992. On 27 December 2003, when we 
17-37449
19/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
were non-permanent members of the Security Council, 
we also submitted a draft resolution that the Security 
Council  has  neglected  to  this  very  day.  It  aimed  to 
create  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  and  a  zone  free  of 
weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. Based 
on that, no one can call into question the credibility of 
our  national  commitment  to  non-proliferation,  all  the 
more  so  since  the  draft  resolution,  which  was  in  line 
with the aims and objectives of the IAEA, was met with 
objections  in  the  Security  Council  from  the  United 
States, whose delegation even threatened to veto it.
All  of  those  erroneous  policies  reveal  the  lies 
behind  the  allegations  that  Western  countries  make 
with  respect  to  the  creation  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons in the Middle East. In fact, Westerners have 
been  responsible  for  providing  Israel  with  nuclear 
resources  and  technology  for  decades,  enabling  it 
to  acquire  its  weapons  and  their  means  of  delivery, 
including  submarines  —  gifts,  incidentally  —  and 
long-range nuclear missile technology. Israel spared no 
effort in vainly attempting to divert attention from the 
issue of its nuclear weapons at the 2010 session of the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  in  New  York,  as  well  as 
those  held  in  2012  and  2015.  Why  is  that?  Because  it 
wants to camouflage its continued possession of nuclear 
weapons, to the detriment of the peace and stability of 
the peoples of the region. This demonstrates once again 
that the existing policies are based on nuclear hypocrisy.
The  Security  Council  and  the  IAEA  did  not 
denounce  Israel’s  shameless  military  attack  against 
Syria  in  2007.  Nor  did  they  condemn  Israel’s  refusal 
to cooperate with the IAEA or the fact that it did not 
allow IAEA inspectors to reveal the probable sources of 
pollution resulting from Israel’s use of rockets against 
the Deir ez-Zor site.
Israel’s  continued  lack  of  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA and ongoing development of its nuclear military 
capacities  outside  any  international  control,  as  well 
as  its  lack  of  respect  for  any  other  appeals  by  the 
international community, damage the credibility of the 
non-proliferation regime. Israel’s actions undermine the 
stability and peace of the peoples of the Middle East. 
These are very serious matters that are documented and 
well  known  to  the  Agency,  and  we  would  have  liked 
the Director General to have covered them in his report 
(see A/72/221) and address them at least as squarely as 
he  does  the  question  of  the  Israeli  aggression  against 
Deir ez-Zor.
Member  States’  commitment  under  the  IAEA 
Statute  required  that  the  United  States  communicate 
the  information  it  possessed  before  the  incident  took 
place, not eight months after the destruction of the Deir 
ez-Zor  site.  The  same  is  true  of  Israel,  which  refused 
to  disclose  information  to  the  IAEA.  Whether  or  not 
that  information  was  verifiable,  Israel  carried  out  a 
qualified military attack on Syrian territory by crossing 
into the air space of a neighbouring country — Turkey. 
The  Agency  failed  to  address  Israel’s  violation  of 
its  international  commitments  and  did  not  take  the 
necessary steps consistent with its responsibilities and 
prerogatives under its mandate.
I am sure we all recall the memoir of the IAEA’s 
previous  Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei. 
Its  English  title  is  The  Age  of  Deception:  Nuclear 
Diplomacy  in  Treacherous  Times.  I  recommend  it  to 
everyone.  It  covers  a  great  number  of  scandals  and 
corroborates the terms I use, in this case, that of nuclear 
hypocrisy. To cite a paragraph from pages 228 and 229 
of the book,
(spoke in English)
“One of the strangest and most striking examples 
of nuclear hypocrisy, multilateral and multifaceted, 
must surely be Israel’s bombing of the Deir ez-Zor 
installation  in  Syria  in  September  2007,  and  the 
aftermath of that attack. Speculation began almost 
immediately  that  the  site  had  housed  a  nuclear 
facility. Syria denied the accusations. Israel and the 
United  States  remained  officially  silent,  although 
American  officials  talked  anonymously  on  the 
subject  to  the  media.  I  spoke  out  strongly,  noting 
that  any  country  with  information  indicating  that 
the bombed facility was nuclear was under a legal 
obligation  to  report  it  to  the  IAEA.  But  no  one 
came forward with such a report. For the six weeks 
following the bombing — the most crucial period 
in terms of our seeing inside the facility — we were 
unable to obtain any high-resolution imagery from 
commercial satellites.”
(spoke in Arabic)
Much  other  important  information  is  included  in  this 
document, but I will stop here so that members of the 
delegations can buy the book and read it for themselves.
The  majority  of  the  conclusions  reached  by  the 
IAEA  during  the  mandate  of  the  current  Director 
General  are  based  on  images  and  analyses  presented 
20/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
by  the  United  States  Central  Intelligence  Agency, 
which  gives  rise  to  a  number  of  questions  about  the 
credibility  of  the  information  received  by  the  IAEA, 
especially given that it was presented by a country with 
a political agenda that runs counter to the interests of 
my country, Syria, as the Assembly is well aware, and 
taking into account the precedents here — in particular 
the  catastrophic  Iraqi  dossier,  which  involved  the 
destruction of a country’s infrastructure as well as the 
proliferation of terrorism there and in the region. I am 
sure that all member States are aware of the results of 
the investigation into the presence of weapons of mass 
destruction  in  Iraq,  which  were  detailed  in  a  2008 
report    of  the  United  Nations  Special  Commission 
established pursuant to Security Council resolution 687 
(1991), which has been left in a secret chest not to be 
opened for 60 years. The report was essentially buried 
because it concluded that, after a decade of work and the 
creation of the fallacious American and British pretext 
for invading Iraq, no weapons of mass destruction were 
ever found in Iraq.
 We wonder what the Director General of the IAEA 
and the countries that provide cover for Israeli nuclear 
weapons  have  done  to  implement  Security  Council 
resolution  487  (1981),  adopted  unanimously  more 
than 30 years ago, following Israel’s attack on an Iraqi 
nuclear  reactor.    I  will  read  the  request  made  by  the 
Security Council at that time, more than 30 years ago, 
in paragraph 5 of that resolution, in which the Security 
Council
(spoke in English)
“[c]alls  upon  Israel  urgently  to  place  its  nuclear 
facilities under the safeguards of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency”.
(spoke in Arabic)
I emphasize the word “urgently”.
An 
important 
the  Stockholm 
treatment  of  disarmament  and 
international security is published in the 2012 Yearbook 
of 
International  Peace  Research 
Institute,  an  institution  that  delegations  are  familiar 
with, which contains an entire chapter entitled “Israeli 
Nuclear Forces”. Please note the plural “Forces”. In the 
Yearbook, there is no mention of, let alone a chapter on, 
a Syrian nuclear programme.
From this rostrum, I renew my call to the Director 
General  of  the  IAEA  to  read  that  chapter,  draw  the 
necessary conclusions from it and immediately address 
the question of Israeli nuclear weapons, which threaten 
the  peace,  life  and  security  of  the  peoples  of  all 
countries in the region. We call on the Agency itself to 
comply  with  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council 
resolutions on Israeli nuclear weapons.
Mr.  Bessho  (Japan):  I  would 
to  begin 
by  thanking  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano  for 
presenting  the  annual  report  (see  A/72/221)  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  Japan 
would also like to warmly welcome Grenada as a new 
member of the IAEA.
like 
The  Government  of  Japan  congratulates  Director 
General  Amano  on  his  reappointment.  We  commend 
his  work  in  addressing  various  areas,  such  as  the 
promotion  of  the  Atoms  for  Peace  and  Development 
initiative aimed at widening and deepening the benefits 
of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technology.  Japan  also 
supports his efforts in enhancing the Agency’s ability 
to  monitor  North  Korea’s  nuclear  programme  and  in 
monitoring  and  verifying  the  implementation  of  the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). We will 
continue  to  extend  our  full  cooperation  to  him  and 
the Agency.
Japan  fully  supports  the  activities  of  the  IAEA 
that  help  the  international  community  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Since  2011,  Japan 
has  contributed  more  than  $28  million  through  the 
IAEA’s  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative.  We  are  committed 
to  continuously  supporting  IAEA’s  activities  on  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technology,  and  we  will  seek 
ways  to  further  utilize  our  expertise  and  technical 
knowledge for the sustainable development of the IAEA 
member States.
I would like to express my sincere congratulations on 
the success of the International Ministerial Conference 
on Nuclear Power in the Twenty-First Century, held in 
Abu  Dhabi  this  month.  Japan  is  determined  to  work 
with other countries on the various challenges related 
to the use of nuclear energy that need to be tackled.
In  order  to  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy,  it  is  essential  that  we  strengthen  existing 
safeguards  and  ensure  nuclear  safety  and  security. 
Japan  therefore  advocates  for  the  universalization  of 
the  Additional  Protocol  with  a  view  to  strengthening 
these safeguards. Japan will continue to work with the 
IAEA  to  promote  the  universalization  and  efficient 
implementation  of 
the 
development of human resources.
relevant  conventions  and 
17-37449
21/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
Over  the  past  six  years,  Japan  has  been  actively 
working  to  enhance  nuclear  safety,  drawing  on  the 
lessons  learned  from  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear 
power  plant  accident,  including  by  fundamentally 
reforming  the  regulatory  structures  in  Japan.  Japan 
will  continue  to  share  its  experiences  derived  from 
the  accident  with  the  international  community  and 
contribute  to  enhancing  nuclear  safety  worldwide, 
including  by  assisting 
the  development  of 
infrastructure  and  human  resources  in  countries  that 
are building new nuclear-power plants.
in 
Japan  upholds  the  IAEA’s  central  role  in  nuclear 
security.  This  year,  Japan  hosted  the  plenary  meeting 
of the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism. 
We  will  also  strengthen  measures  to  counter  nuclear 
terrorism  at  major  public  events  with  the  IAEA’s 
support, in view of the fact that the 2020 Olympic and 
Paralympic Games, for example, will be held in Tokyo.
North Korea’s nuclear-weapon and ballistic-missile 
programmes  represent  an  unprecedented,  grave  and 
imminent threat to international security and a direct 
challenge 
the  nuclear-non-proliferation  regime. 
Japan  condemns  in  the  strongest  possible  terms  the 
repeated  nuclear-weapon  tests  and  ballistic-missile 
launches  conducted  by  North  Korea 
in  flagrant 
violation and disregard of the relevant Security Council 
resolutions and other commitments. The international 
community  should  never  succumb  to  a  nuclear  threat 
from  North  Korea  or  accept  a  nuclear-armed  North 
Korea, and should renew its determination to achieve 
the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula as a basic 
part of peace and security in North-East Asia.
to 
In  that  regard,  we  support  the  IAEA’s  efforts  to 
prepare  to  resume  inspections  in  North  Korea,  and 
strongly urge the country to abandon all nuclear-weapon 
and  ballistic-missile  programmes  and  take  concrete 
steps to achieve the verifiable denuclearization of the 
Korean peninsula. In order to make North Korea change 
paths,  the  international  community  must  be  united  in 
its efforts to fully implement relevant Security Council 
resolutions so as to maximize pressure on North Korea.
Japan  supports  the  JCPOA,  which  contributes  to 
regional  stability  and  strengthens  the  international 
non-proliferation regime. Japan commends the IAEA’s 
essential role in the monitoring and verification of the 
JCPOA and welcomes its parties’ steady implementation 
of nuclear-related commitments.
As  an  original  member  State  of  the  IAEA  and  a 
leading  country  in  the  area  of  nuclear  energy,  Japan 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  further  promoting  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  strengthening 
nuclear non-proliferation.
Mr.  Leschenko  (Ukraine):  While  Ukraine  aligns 
itself with the statement delivered earlier today under 
this  agenda  item  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union, I would like to make some additional remarks in 
my national capacity.
The delegation of Ukraine supports the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) annual report for 2016 
(see A/72/221) and its relevant annexes, as well as draft 
resolution A/72/L.6, to be adopted today, of which we 
are pleased to be a sponsor.
We  are  also  pleased  to  emphasize  that  the  IAEA 
report  presents  a  comprehensive  and  well-balanced 
analysis  of  major  achievements  of  the  Agency’s  work 
during 2016, as well as the main priorities in promoting 
the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes set forth 
by  the  Agency’s  member  States.  Ukraine  commends 
the  Secretariat’s  professional  work  in  preparing  the 
latest IAEA annual report, which is based on the norms 
of  international  law,  the  IAEA  Statute  and  individual 
States’ comprehensive safeguards agreements.
In  that  regard,  the  delegation  of  Ukraine  wishes 
to reiterate that the legal framework for the Agency’s 
in  Ukraine, 
safeguards  application 
including  on 
Ukraine’s 
territory  of 
the  Autonomous  Republic 
of  Crimea  and  the  city  of  Sevastopol,  is  based  on 
Ukraine’s  Comprehensive  Safeguards  Agreement  and 
its  Additional  Protocol,  and  is  in  compliance  with 
resolutions  68/262,  entitled  “Territorial  integrity  of 
Ukraine”; 70/10, on the 2014 report of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency; and 71/158, on the 2015 report 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.  Ukraine 
believes that the IAEA annual report for 2016, prepared 
by  the  Agency  and  approved  by  the  IAEA  Board  of 
Governors  in  Vienna  in  June,  reaffirms  the  vitally 
important role played by the Agency in meeting today’s 
combined challenges under the terms of its Statute and 
relevant General Assembly resolutions.
In conclusion, Ukraine wishes to thank the IAEA 
for  its  report  and  reiterates  its  strong  continued 
support for the activities of the Agency in all areas of 
its mandate.
22/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
Ms.  Valiente  Díaz  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Cuba  recognizes  the  significant  contribution  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to peace 
and  sustainable  development,  including  in  combating 
the  effects  of  climate  change,  food  insecurity  and 
disease.  We  reiterate  that  the  Agency  should  make  it 
a  priority  to  allocate  efforts  and  resources  depending 
on  the  use  and  dissemination  of  nuclear  applications 
to  improve  living  conditions,  promote  sustainable 
development and environmental protection.
We  are  pleased  that  the  IAEA  has  maintained  a 
proper balance among the three pillars in its work. We 
congratulate Grenada, another fraternal country of the 
Caribbean, on becoming a member of the Agency.
The 
IAEA  and 
its  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme have an important role to play in achieving 
two far-reaching global agreements, the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change. The IAEA Technical Cooperation 
Programme is the world’s principal means for promoting 
the peaceful use of nuclear energy, as confirmed by the 
excellent  results  of  the  first  international  conference 
on  the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  which 
took  place  in  May.  We  support  the  holding  of  such 
conferences on a regular basis.
to 
importance 
Cuba  attaches  great 
technical 
cooperation  within  the  framework  of  the  Agency.  We 
emphasize the excellent state of relations between the 
Agency  and  our  country,  evidenced  by  the  Director 
General’s successful visit to our country in November 
2016 in the context of the programmes celebrating the 
IAEA’s sixtieth anniversary.
Cuba recognizes the significant contribution of the 
application of nuclear technologies in key areas of the 
economy and society, such as human health, with special 
attention  to  the  programmes  for  cancer  control,  food 
security, agriculture and environmental protection. In 
that  context,  we  reaffirm  our  opposition  to  measures 
aimed at prohibiting or limiting the legitimate right of 
States to access and use nuclear energy and associated 
technologies  and  knowledge  for  peaceful  purposes. 
We strongly reject and demand the immediate removal 
of  any  type  of  limitations  and  restrictions  on  exports 
to  developing  countries  of  materials,  equipment  and 
technologies for nuclear activities for peaceful purposes.
The effective management of nuclear security does 
not  allow  for  exclusions  or  selectivity.  International 
standards  on  nuclear  security  should  be  adopted 
within  the  framework  of  the  IAEA,  as  a  result  of 
transparent,  inclusive  and  multilateral  negotiations 
with  the  participation  of  all  States.  Cuba  reiterates 
that the leading role of the Agency in seeking agreed 
approaches  to  that  issue  should  not  be  minimized  or 
concealed.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  successful 
conclusion  of  the  IAEA  International  Conference  on 
Nuclear Security, held in Vienna from 5 to 9 December 
2016.  However,  we  emphasize  that  nuclear  security 
and measures to strengthen it are the responsibility of 
each State.
In July, Cuba deposited its instruments of accession 
to  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety  and  the  Joint 
Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management 
and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management, 
which  entered  into  force  for  Cuba  on  1  October.  We 
welcome  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Amendment  to 
the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material,  which  will  promote  the  greater  protection 
of nuclear facilities and materials, affirm the peaceful 
use of nuclear energy and facilitate cooperation among 
States  parties  to  prevent  and  combat  crimes  with  the 
use of radioactive and nuclear materials.
Cuba  welcomes  the  implementation  of  the  Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) in the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran.  We  emphasize  that  the  JCPOA  is  a 
clear  example  that  dialogue  and  negotiations  are  the 
appropriate  ways  to  resolve  differences  and  reach 
satisfactory agreements for all the parties involved in 
an issue. We reiterate that applying selective approaches 
that give priority to horizontal proliferation and ignore 
vertical  proliferation  and  disarmament  will  not  help 
to eliminate the threat posed by a terrorist attack with 
nuclear  materials.  We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
region  of  the  Middle  East.  In  that  regard,  we  deplore 
the  fact  that  the  conference  planned  for  that  purpose 
has not yet taken place.
In  conclusion,  Cuba  congratulates  the  Agency’s 
Director  General,  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  on  his 
reappointment for an additional term, which constitutes 
recognition of his leadership in the promotion of nuclear 
applications  and  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
under the banner of Atoms for Peace and Development.
Mr. Ja Song Nam (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea would like to point out that the report 
(see  A/72/221)  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
17-37449
23/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
Agency (IAEA) and the urgency of this meeting present 
a seriously distorted picture of reality with regard to the 
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, and I would like 
to make its position clear.
The  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  the 
product  of  the  hostile  policy  and  nuclear  threats  of 
the  United  States  towards  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  for  which  the  United  States  is 
entirely responsible. If the United States had not been 
enforcing a hostile policy for more than 70 years against 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea — since the 
day our country was founded — and if that policy had 
not been intensified with undisguised nuclear blackmail 
and threats, the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula 
would never have arisen in the first place.
For the Korean people, who have experienced the 
disastrous  disturbances  of  war  caused  by  the  United 
States on the Korean peninsula, powerful deterrence is 
an inevitable strategic option for our national defence 
and a precious strategic asset that cannot be reversed or 
bartered away for anything in the world.
The root cause of the prevailing nuclear threat on 
the Korean peninsula and the fact that the situation has 
so  often  got  out  of  control  lies  in  the  nuclear  threats 
and  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States  towards  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  In  utter 
disregard  for  that  reality,  the  IAEA  submits  a  report 
every  year  to  the  General  Assembly  that  is  full  of 
prejudice  and  unfairness,  siding  with  the  United 
States  and  its  hostile  policy  towards  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  It  is  unfair  for  the  IAEA 
to  take  issue  with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea, which is not a member State of the Agency, 
in its annual report. It was none other than the IAEA, 
at  the  instigation  of  the  United  States,  that  roused 
suspicions regarding the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea’s peaceful nuclear facilities in the 1990s and 
compelled the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
to leave the IAEA and withdraw from the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
never recognized the annual reports of the IAEA or the 
resolutions adopted by its Board of Governors, which 
are full of distortions and prejudices. We categorically 
reject them. If the IAEA truly wants peace and security 
on the Korean peninsula, it should first take issue with 
the United States, which is the real nuclear-war criminal 
and ringleader of the nuclear threat.
Owing  to  the  extreme  hostile  policy  and  nuclear 
threat  of  the  United  States  towards  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, the Korean peninsula is on 
the brink of a nuclear war. Despite the serious concerns 
of  the  international  community,  the  United  States 
continues to stage its aggressive joint annual military 
exercises with the aim of making a pre-emptive nuclear 
attack  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  as  it  brings  strategic  assets  into  South  Korea, 
including the means to conduct nuclear strikes.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
opted  to  possess  nuclear  weapons  to  safeguard  its 
sovereignty and its right to existence and development 
from  the  hostile  policy  and  nuclear  threats  of  the 
United  States.  It  is  holding  fast  to  the  strategic  line 
of  simultaneously  building  up  its  economy  and  its 
nuclear force. We will not put our nuclear weapons and 
ballistic  missiles  on  the  negotiating  table  under  any 
circumstances  unless  the  hostile  policy  and  nuclear 
threat  of  the  United  States  against  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea cease completely. We will 
hold fast to the line of simultaneously developing those 
two fronts, under the lasting banner of defending peace, 
and  continue  to  march  forward  without  the  slightest 
deviation  to  the  end  of  the  road  that  we  have  chosen 
for  ourselves.  As  a  responsible  nuclear-weapon  State, 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will make 
a positive contribution to ensuring peace and security 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  throughout  the  rest  of 
the world.
Mr.  Bessedik  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President  on 
the  able  leadership  he  has  shown  during  this  session. 
We  are  ready  to  work  for  successful  outcomes  to  our 
proceedings. We also warmly congratulate Mr. Amano 
on  his  reappointment  as  Director  General  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and wish 
him every success in the discharge of his functions.
We  have  taken  note  of  the  annual  report  (see 
A/72/221)  of  the  Agency  for  2016,  which  contains  an 
outline of the activities and achievements of the IAEA 
in  the  main  fields  of  technical  cooperation,  nuclear 
technology, nuclear safety and security, and safeguards. 
Given  the  importance  of  the  matters  addressed  in 
the  report,  my  delegation  would  like  to  make  the 
following observations.
With  regard  to  the  IAEA  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  initiative 
24/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
taken  by  the  Agency  in  holding  its  first  international 
conference  on  the  Programme,  which  took  place  in 
Vienna this year and was an important opportunity to 
address the contributions of technologies and the use of 
the atomic energy to the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) as well as other applications. 
We  hope  that  initiative  will  be  organized  in  the  form 
of  a  ministerial  conference  so  as  to  strengthen  and 
increase technical cooperation among member States.
Since the role of the IAEA Technical Cooperation 
Programme will be played out over many years into the 
future, my country will continue to contribute regularly 
to the regular budget of the Agency and the Programme. 
The  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  calls  for 
allocating sufficient predictable financial resources to 
help the Agency to meet its future obligations, including 
the implementation of the SDGs.
I would like to comment on some aspects that merit 
special attention. Within the framework of its national 
programme  to  combat  cancer,  Algeria  continues  its 
efforts  to  integrate  and  use  nuclear  techniques  and 
applications  in  the  area  of  health  care  to  diagnose 
and  treat  this  terrible  disease.  Accordingly,  we  have 
strengthened  our  training  activities  for  physicians 
and  other  specialized  medical  personnel 
the 
area  of  radiation  protection.  We  are  implementing 
a  plan  of  action  designed  in  accordance  with  the 
recommendations made by the Agency through its two 
missions to Algeria. With the assistance of the IAEA, 
Algeria  has  improved  its  maintenance  of  nuclear 
equipment  and  training  facilities,  where  periodic 
training programmes, including those for other African 
States, are held.
in 
In September, we also formulated Algeria’s country 
programme  framework  for  the  period  from  2018  to 
2023, in conjunction with the relevant national sectors 
and  the  IAEA.  My  country  also  continues  to  make 
serious  efforts  to  strengthen  technical  cooperation 
among  African  States  within  the  framework  of  the 
African Regional Cooperative Agreement for Research, 
Development  and  Training  related  to  Nuclear  Science 
and  Technology.  In  that  regard,  the  four  regional 
centres  established  under  the  Cooperative  Agreement 
in Algeria are actively training people in dealing with 
protection from nuclear radiation, conducting research 
on  nuclear  medicine  and  food  safety,  and  working  to 
implement other related national programmes.
Nuclear  security  and  safety  are  a  major  focus  for 
Algeria. We appreciate the efforts of the IAEA in that 
regard, particularly since its expertise is fundamental 
in terms of fostering an international framework in that 
area. We reiterate our principled position that States have 
great responsibility when it comes to nuclear safety and 
security. We believe that measures to strengthen nuclear 
safety and security should neither impede international 
cooperation  in  the  field  of  peaceful  nuclear  activities 
nor  curb  the  priorities  of  the  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme as set forth by the Agency.
Algeria is also making concerted efforts on radiation 
safety related to basic national structures, through the 
establishment  of  a  stringent  oversight  system  using 
atomic-radiation  equipment  and  following  the  laws 
that  regulate  protection  from  radiation  hazards.  We 
welcome the entry into force in 2016 of the amendment 
to  the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of 
Nuclear Material.
We emphasize the need for universal accession to 
international legal instruments on nuclear security at the 
national level and in accordance with our international 
obligations. We support the relevant recommendations 
by  improving  national  structures,  including  training 
systems  with  extraregional  jurisdiction  to  help  with 
the  exchange  of  information  and  expertise.  Algeria’s 
approach  to  nuclear  security  involves  a  progressive 
approach consistent with our national policy, taking into 
account our national nuclear safety goals and priorities 
as well as other related international obligations.
Algeria  considers  the  IAEA  verification  regime 
to  be  an  essential  element  in  the  multilateral  system 
of  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  We 
underscore the universal character of this regime, and 
we  take  note  of  the  efforts  of  the  IAEA  to  foster  the 
regime’s effectiveness. We urge the Agency to continue 
to  make  efforts  in  strict  adherence  to  its  mandate 
and functions.
The  IAEA  remains  the  optimal  national  legal 
framework  for  promoting  the  non-proliferation  of 
nuclear  weapons  to  non-nuclear-weapon  States  within 
the  framework  of 
the  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime.  Accordingly,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
satisfaction at the mutual trust and cooperation Algeria 
enjoys with the IAEA in the context of implementing 
our Safeguards Agreement.
The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  is  a 
significant part of international efforts in the areas of 
17-37449
25/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament  and  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. In that 
connection, we would like to reiterate how important it 
is to see the Treaty enter into force, and we call on all 
Member States that have still not acceded to it to do so 
without delay.
The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT)  guarantees  States  the  use  of  nuclear 
weapons  for  peaceful  purposes.  There  can  be  no 
justification  for  questioning  that  right,  and  certainly 
not on grounds relating to nuclear peace and security. 
Such  matters  are regulated  by  internationally  binding 
instruments  such  as  the  Pelindaba  Treaty,  which 
established  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  Africa. 
We  firmly  believe  in  the  importance  of  establishing 
nuclear-weapon-free  zones  all  over  the  world,  given 
their significance for the preservation of international 
peace and  security  and the  contribution they make to 
nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament. In 
that regard, Algeria would like to once again express its 
deep concern about the obstacles that have been placed 
in the way of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone 
in the Middle East since the decision on that was made 
at  the  1995  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
as well as about the absence of any concrete progress in 
that regard, which constitutes a clear threat to the safety 
and security of the region and indeed the entire world. 
It  was  on  that  basis  that  we  participated  in  the  NPT 
negotiations  as  part  of  our  campaign  to  eliminate  all 
nuclear weapons and were among the first signatories 
to the Treaty, based on our belief in the importance of 
ridding the world of such weapons.
In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity 
to congratulate the International Campaign to Abolish 
Nuclear  Weapons  on  winning  the  2017  Nobel  Peace 
Prize,  rewarding  its  enormous  efforts  and  drawing 
attention  to  the  disastrous  repercussions  of  nuclear 
weapons,  as  well  as  the  importance  of  adhering  to 
the NPT.
Mr. Marzooq (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation 
for  the  work  done  to  prepare  the  annual  report  (see 
A/72/221) of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA), which outlines the achievements and activities 
of the Agency in 2016.
Despite  the  challenges  we  face  in  fighting  the 
terrorist  gangs  of  Da’esh,  my  Government  has  taken 
numerous  positive  steps  in  the  area  of  nuclear  power 
and  radiation  management,  including  by  enacting  a 
law in 2016 establishing an atomic energy commission, 
which it is currently in the final stages of setting up. The 
relevant authorities are assessing facilities and sources 
where  hazardous  substances,  especially  radioactive 
materials, were stored, particularly in areas previously 
controlled  by  terrorist  groups.  The  Government  has 
adopted  a  set  of  basic  principles  for  a  national  policy 
on managing radioactive waste and is working on ways 
to  safely  dispose  of  the  radioactive  waste  produced 
through the destruction of former nuclear sites, as well 
as materials from medical, industrial and oil facilities.
Within  its  framework  of  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA,  Iraq  has  now  signed  a  country  programme 
framework  for  the  period  from  2018  to  2023,  an 
important document regulating our joint efforts. With 
regard  to  the  implementation  of  our  international 
obligations,  Iraq  has  now  ratified  the  Convention  on 
the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  and  the 
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts 
of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  We  have  taken  the  measures 
necessary for implementing both Conventions through 
specialized  committees  and  for  following  up  on 
that implementation.
technology 
to 
transferring  nuclear 
The  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  is  one  of 
the Agency’s main activities in the field of promoting 
and 
assist 
sustainable  socioeconomic  progress  in  developing 
countries, in line with the Statute of the IAEA. It is the 
joint responsibility of the Agency and Member States, 
whose  concerted  efforts  directly  affect  the  success  of 
the Programme, which is implemented on the basis of 
States’  requirements  and  needs.  It  also  requires  the 
provision  of  resources  for  promotional  activities.  The 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme’s  resources  should 
therefore be guaranteed and be part of the activities of 
the Agency, in accordance with its rules of procedure.
We  believe  that  eliminating  nuclear  weapons  and 
other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East 
represents  a  major  step  towards  establishing  safety 
and  stability  there.  Considering  the  recent  dangerous 
and  sensitive  developments  in  the  international  arena 
and  the  Middle  East  in  particular,  we  believe  the 
international community should shoulder its collective 
responsibility  to  work  diligently  to  restore  peace  to 
the  region.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation  once 
again  emphasizes  the  cardinal  role  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  three  depositary  States  of  the  Treaty 
26/28 
17-37449
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.46
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in 
convening a conference on restoring peace to the region 
as soon as possible, in line with the 1995 resolution on 
the  Middle  East,  as  well  as  the  Plan  of  Action  of  the 
2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Iraq  is 
of the view that some of the most important and urgent 
steps involved in restoring peace to the region include 
Israel’s dismantling of its nuclear-weapon programme, 
accession  to  the  NPT  as  a  non-nuclear  State  and 
subjection  of  its  nuclear  installations  to  the  IAEA 
comprehensive safeguards regime.
We  believe  that  enhancing  programmes  for  the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  power  in  all  countries  is  an 
inalienable right that involves assistance in improving 
development  programmes,  particularly  in  developing 
countries,  without  the  imposition  of  restrictions  or 
impediments  by  particular  groups  or  of  international 
conditions that have a negative effect on the interests 
of those States.
Mr.  Jaime  Calderón  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): At the outset, I would like to thank Director 
General  Yukiya  Amano  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report  (see  A/72/221)  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  on  its  activities  during  2016, 
and to express the congratulations of the Government of 
El Salvador on his reappointment as Director General. 
We hope that he will continue his tireless work at the 
helm of the IAEA.
Draft  resolution  A/72/L.6,  on  the  IAEA  report, 
which the General Assembly adopts every year, is based 
on the agreement between the United Nations and the 
Agency entered into 1957, and reaffirms the Agency’s 
indispensable  role  in  promoting  the  development  and 
use  of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful  uses,  transferring 
technology to developing countries and maintaining a 
verification and nuclear safety regime.
My delegation believes that this represents a unique 
opportunity  for  informing  the  Assembly  about  the 
activities of the Agency during the reporting year and 
giving Member States an opportunity to engage in and 
support the Agency’s ongoing work. We also welcome 
the decisions adopted by the IAEA General Conference 
at its sixty-first session, held from 18 to 22 September. 
In  that  context,  my  country  recognizes  the  sovereign 
right to develop and make use of nuclear technologies 
exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes,  as  provided  for 
under article IV of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. At the same time, we reaffirm our 
obligation to work for general and complete disarmament 
as  the  only  genuine  guarantee  of  peace,  security  and 
international stability. In the global context, countries 
must  continue  to  promote  the  use  of  nuclear  science 
and technology for exclusively peaceful purposes and 
prevent  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  with  a 
view to making an ongoing contribution to sustainable 
development and world peace.
My  country  is  aware  of  the  benefits  of  nuclear 
technology for the peoples of the world, not just where 
electricity  generation  is  concerned  but  also  in  other 
areas  such  as  health  care,  agriculture,  food  safety, 
environment and research. We therefore firmly believe 
that by working together, cooperating and establishing 
synergies among countries for appropriate and peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  technology,  it  is  possible  to  achieve 
excellent  results  that  foster  scientific  development 
for the benefit of our populations. In that regard, it is 
essential to ensure that countries work together with the 
IAEA so that nuclear energy can be used to improve the 
coverage and quality of health care, the production and 
distribution of food and the prevention and mitigation 
of the negative impacts of climate change, as well as to 
improve our approach to natural disasters, among other 
high-priority areas, all of which can help to achieve real 
human development.
El  Salvador  appreciates  the  ongoing  invaluable 
support of the IAEA in implementing and strengthening 
the  uses  of  atomic  energy  in  technology  and  science, 
enabling  us  to  make  significant  progress  in  those 
areas, and we hope to further strengthen our bilateral 
cooperation with it, in recognition of the major added 
value  it  brings  as  an  organization.  We  are  currently 
drawing  up  our  country  programme  framework  for 
the  period  2018  to  2023,  continuing  the  cooperation 
between El Salvador and the IAEA that will enable us 
to  further  align  our  Government’s  priorities  with  the 
Agency’s work.
Finally,  we  reiterate  our  firm  commitment  to 
continuing  to  work  with  the  Agency,  and  we  urge 
Member States to continue to support the activities of 
the IAEA.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  Before  adjourning  the 
meeting,  I  would  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
Assembly’s  consideration  of  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda 
17-37449
27/28
A/72/PV.46 
10/11/2017
item 114, entitled “Election of twenty members of the 
Committee  for  Programme  and  Coordination”,  and 
sub-item (f) of agenda item 115, entitled “Appointment 
of members of the Committee on Conferences”, which 
was originally scheduled for Friday, 17 November, has 
been postponed to a later date, to be announced.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
28/28 
17-37449
