United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
8th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 September 2017, 12.05 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Rajaonarimampianina 
Rakotoarimanana  (Madagascar),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 12.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane 
Ouattara,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ouattara  (spoke  in  French):  I  would 
first  like  to  express  my  condolences  to  the  Mexican 
Government and people after the earthquake.
I wish to express the gratitude of the Ivorian people 
for  the  great  mobilization  of  countries  gathered  here 
that  elected  Côte  d’Ivoire  to  the  Security  Council  for 
the  term  2018-2019.  That  election  demonstrates,  if 
that  were  necessary,  the  Assembly’s  support  for  my 
country’s ongoing commitment to peace and dialogue.
It is also a call to share with the the Assembly and 
the  world  our  experience  in  managing  the  emergence 
from  a  crisis  and  in  effective  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations,  as  evidenced  by  the  success  of  the 
United  Nations  Operation  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  That 
peacekeeping  operation,  with  its  lessons  learned, 
has  been  acknowledged  by  all  as  one  of  the  few 
peacekeeping  successes  of  our  global  Organization 
in the past few decades. It should serve as inspiration 
to  the  United  Nations  in  its  peace  initiatives.  That  is 
why Côte d’Ivoire, as a non-permanent member of the 
Security  Council  —  which  status  was  just  conferred 
by  the  Assembly  —  intends  to  promote  fair  and 
pragmatic  compromises  in  the  settlement  of  crises  on 
the Council’s agenda.
In  a  world  experiencing  severe  geopolitical 
turbulence and climate change, the theme of our session, 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”, is a call to action 
to strengthen peace in the world. We must conceive of 
a development model that is better balanced among the 
countries and more just among people. This theme us 
an urgent challenge to save our planet so that we can 
build the virtuous world we want for ourselves and for 
future generations.
From the discussions we held with all countries as 
we  sought  to  promote  our  candidacy  for  the  Security 
Council, we noted that there is an urgent need to respond 
to new global threats in order to achieve a lasting peace 
for all. More than ever before, it is time to act and to 
fulfil our commitments, so as to meet the expectations 
of our peoples with regard to security and development.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29395 (E)
*1729395*
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
Since 2001, the global counter-terrorism architecture 
that our Organization set up has become considerably 
stronger  in  terms  of  law  and  the  coordination  of 
international  action.  Despite 
those  encouraging 
developments,  and 
the  success  of  anti-terrorist 
operations  by  major  Powers  and  their  allies  in  the 
Middle East and, to a lesser extent, in Africa, the world 
is struggling to find a satisfactory collective response 
to  terrorism.  Under  such  conditions,  those  important 
successes  will  be  in  vain  and  the  terrorist  threat  will 
remain a source of concern if Africa continues to be the 
weak link in the global fight against terrorism.
The major Powers must intensify their commitment 
to  combating  terrorism  in  Africa  and  must  provide 
greater support to the efforts of the continent and the 
United  Nations.  We  call  for  support  for  the  Group  of 
Five for the Sahel (G-5 Sahel), whose work is essential 
for the security of a large part of the African continent. 
For  its  part,  Côte  d’Ivoire  will  make  support  for  the 
G5  Sahel  and  fighting  terrorism  in  Africa  one  of  the 
priorities during its term on the Security Council, since 
without stability there can be no development.
Global  warming  is  a  real  concern.  No  country 
is  immune  to  the  devastating  effects  of  climate 
phenomena,  which  are  jeopardizing  our  countries’ 
peoples and economies. We must therefore act quickly 
and responsibly if we are to preserve our environment 
and our planet.
to  under 
With  regard  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change,  my  Government  will  live  up  to  its  signing 
of  it  and  will  seek,  inter  alia,  energy  transitions,  the 
development of smart agriculture and the preservation 
and protection of the environment. It is urgent that every 
country,  like  Côte  d’Ivoire,  uphold  its  commitments 
voluntarily  agreed 
the  Paris  Climate 
Agreement. In the same vein, developed countries must 
honour  their  commitments  to  finance  the  adaptation 
of  the  economies  of  the  countries  in  the  South  to  the 
impact  of  global  warming.  We  must  also  be  sensitive 
to  the  plight  of  many  small  island  States.  We  must 
consider  climate  change  a  real  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security.  We  must  urgently  take  the  right 
steps,  including  by  adopting  an  international  pact  for 
the environment, which has been proposed by France.
Maintaining  peace  and  security  in  the  world  also 
requires  strict  management  of  the  issue  of  nuclear 
weapons. We must do our utmost within the Security 
Council  to  find  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  serious 
nuclear  tensions  in  the  Korean  peninsula.  Any  use  of 
nuclear weapons in that region would demonstrate the 
moral bankruptcy of our civilization and the end of the 
era we are living in. It would run the risk of a nuclear 
conflict  with  unforeseeable  consequences.  I  therefore 
call on the major Powers to show restraint and to enter 
into dialogue with North Korea, in order to create the 
conditions  for  a  lasting  de-escalation  and  to  reassure 
the world with regard to maintaining peace and stability 
in that region.
All  efforts  to  combat  illegal  immigration  and 
human trafficking and smuggling have not put an end to 
those phenomena, which continue to engulf thousands 
of  young  people  from  African  countries 
the 
Mediterranean. On the contrary, they have contributed 
to the weakening of democracy and a rise of extremist 
feelings, even in established Western democracies.
in 
To  put  an  end  to  those  dangerous  migrations, 
developed countries, in particular countries and regions 
that  receive  migrants,  must  mobilize  investments  and 
resources needed to finance development in migrants’ 
countries of origin and transit so that their economies 
are able to offer jobs and opportunities to their youth. 
The  fight  against  people  smugglers  in  countries  of 
origin  should  also  be  intensified.  Furthermore,  the 
international  community  must  put  an  end  to  the  war 
in Libya and dismantle terrorist groups and smugglers’ 
networks that continue to traffic in human beings.
In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  response  to  this  scourge  is 
focused  on  prevention  by  increasing  awareness  and 
assistance with return for those who attempt migration, 
as  well  as  dismantling  smuggling  networks.  The 
fight  against  illegal  migration  must  respect  existing 
international  legal  obligations  that  guarantee  respect 
for the human rights and the fundamental freedoms of 
all migrants.
Building a peaceful and secure world remains our 
priority. Despite a difficult economic situation marked 
by a sudden drop in the price of cocoa, Côte d’Ivoire 
intends  to  honour  its  commitments  in  the  framework 
of the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). In the context of its priority development 
goals,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  reached  an  average  annual 
growth  rate  of  9  per  cent  per  year  over  the  past  five 
years, thanks to sound macroeconomic policy, the work 
of  Ivoirians,  an  improved  business  environment  and 
significant investment.
2/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
We  are  now  working  to  effectively  distribute  the 
fruit of that growth, particularly to the most destitute 
and the most vulnerable segments, all while seeking to 
transform the country. That is the essence of the 2016-
2020 national development programme and of the bold 
social reforms led by my Government. I would like to 
make  an  urgent  appeal  to  all  States  and  civil  society 
organizations  so  that  the  international  mobilization 
for  the  implementation  of  the  SDGs  does  not  fade. 
Developed  nations  must  honour  their  commitments 
by  contributing  to  financing  for  development  in 
accordance  with  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda 
of  the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for Development.
We  must  face  the  fact  that  the  individual  and, 
above all, collective responses of our countries to the 
main  security  challenges  of  our  time  are  insufficient, 
even  if  we  have  achieved  significant  results  in  the 
fight  against  terrorism  in  certain  theatres.  The  fact 
of  the  matter  is  that  our  world  is  vulnerable  and  no 
State  can  face  the  global  threat  alone.  The  rise  of 
terrorism,  the  devastating  effects  of  global  warming 
and  the  persistence  of  nuclear  tension,  particularly  in 
the Korean peninsula, have sorely tested our collective 
security  architecture.  We  must  therefore  agree  on  the 
ways  to  strengthen  and  modernize  it  so  as  to  enable 
our countries to respond jointly and effectively to the 
serious threats of our times.
We  must  also  afford  pride  of  place  to  conflict 
prevention in order to spare our people the exorbitant 
human  and  material  cost  of  war.  In  that  connection, 
I  welcome  the  implementation  of  the  Joint  United 
Nations-African  Union  Framework  for  an  Enhanced 
Partnership in Peace and Security, which will allow both 
institutions to work together closely during all stages of 
the  cycle  of  conflict  in  a  predictable,  systematic  and 
strategic manner.
Our Organization is at an important turning point 
in its history. It is facing significant challenges in the 
carrying  out  of  its  mission.  It  is  therefore  timely  for 
my  country  to  pledge  its  full  support  for  the  reforms 
called for by Secretary-General António Guterres, and 
to renew our faith in him. His reforms are steps in the 
right direction. They ought to be pursued in that same 
spirit, with the support of all countries. Côte d’Ivoire 
is ready to write a new page in its history at the United 
Nations  after  its  election  to  the  Security  Council, 
thanks to the support of all. We must continue to work 
together in the interest of our Organization in order to 
advance the priority causes of our peoples.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Côte d’Ivoire for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President 
of Ukraine
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Petro  Poroshenko, 
President of Ukraine.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President 
of Ukraine, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Poroshenko:  On  behalf  of  Ukraine, 
I  sincerely  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second session. Ukraine fully supports all six 
priorities for the upcoming session defined by him and 
is ready to assist him in his noble efforts.
A lot must be done to translate our common vision 
of a peaceful, prosperous and equal world into reality. 
The spiral of violence continues to affect more and more 
countries and regions. Transnational terrorism, the use 
of  force  in  international  relations,  the  proliferation 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the  refugee  crisis, 
poverty,  human  rights  violations  and  environmental 
fragility are only some of the challenges we face. The 
scope  of  the  threats  demands  our  joint  and  resolute 
response. It is time to act, and we have a very narrow 
window of opportunity to avoid an irreversible decline.
The  United  Nations  should  be  at  the  forefront  of 
this process. Ukraine has always advocated for the need 
to  reform  the  Organization  to  meet  the  most  urgent 
global challenges in a timely and adequate manner. In 
that  regard,  we  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General, since the first day of his mandate, to develop 
and  implement  a  robust  and  comprehensive  United 
Nations reform agenda. We support no less the United 
States initiative to promote an effective and meaningful 
17-29395
3/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Comprehensive  reform 
of the Security Council is long overdue, and we hope 
that  this  session  will  herald  new  momentum  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiations on the blueprint for the 
Security Council reform.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  state  clearly  that 
we in Ukraine could not agree more with the call for 
the sovereignty of nations to be universally respected 
and guaranteed. That very conclusion was timely and 
rightly  raised  yesterday  from  this  rostrum.  When 
the  United  Nations  was  set  up,  it  was  designed  to 
maintain peace and security in the world, based on the 
principle  of  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States  and 
the  integrity  of  their  borders.  The  founding  nations, 
including Ukraine, aimed to secure a world where the 
sovereign  rights  of  free  choice  would  be  respected. 
The five permanent members of the Security Council 
(P-5)  were  to  safeguard  that  principle  in  the  name  of 
sustainable peace and security. That was the principle 
that one of the P-5 member States so blatantly violated 
against  my  own  country.  This  principle  needs  to  be 
put back on track using whatever means and tools we 
have  at  hand.  Ukraine  is  the  right  place  to  invest  in 
that noble endeavour, in the name of sustainable peace 
and security.
That is what millions of Ukrainians have struggled 
for  since  the  beginning  of  the  Russian  aggression  in 
2014  in  both  Donbas  and  Crimea.  A  three-year-long 
war  with  Russia  has  resulted  in  10,000  people  killed 
and  7  per  cent  of  Ukrainian  territory  occupied,  and 
20  per  cent  of  the  Ukrainian  economy  and  industrial 
output has been seized, destroyed or simply stolen.
However, the most horrific thing in this situation is 
that the Kremlin has consciously chosen the tactics of 
increasing human suffering. According to human rights 
activists,  the  occupied  Crimean  peninsula  has  turned 
into  a  territory  of  repression.  Anyone  disagreeing 
with  the  Kremlin  risks  their  freedom,  and  even  their 
life. Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars get arrested even 
for  posting  in  social  networks  or  —  as  was  case  of 
the Crimean farmer Volodymyr Balukh, in December 
2016 — just for putting a Ukrainian national flag on his 
private residence.
Persecution  of  the  leaders  of  the  Mejlis  —  the 
representative organ of Crimean Tatars, whose activities 
the  Russian  occupiers  banned  —  continues.  Only  a 
week ago, Ahtem Chiygoz, Deputy Head of the Mejlis, 
was sentenced to eight years in prison for standing up 
against the Russian occupation. Another Deputy Head 
of  the  Mejlis,  Ilmi  Umerov,  who  has  a  serious  health 
problem, remains under house arrest, not even allowed 
to leave Crimea for medical treatment.
Russia blatantly violates resolution 71/205,  entitled 
“Situation of human rights in the Autonomous Republic 
of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (Ukraine)”. It keeps 
ignoring all requests of the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights to ensure proper 
and  full  access  of  the  international  human  rights 
monitoring  mission  to  Crimea.  The  Kremlin  pays  no 
respect to the provisional measures of the International 
Court of Justice imposed on it. The Court urged Russia 
to refrain from maintaining or imposing limitations on 
the ability of the Crimean Tatar community to conserve 
its representative institutions, including the Mejlis, and 
to ensure the right for Ukrainian citizens to study in the 
Ukrainian language.
The  international  community  must  give  a  proper 
response to such Russian disregard of its international 
obligations. It must keep a close eye on Crimea to prevent 
a new genocide inspired by the modern proponents of 
Stalin’s totalitarian ideology against the Crimean Tatars 
and  Ukrainians.  I  rely  on  the  support  of  delegations 
here for Ukraine’s initiatives to ensure the observance 
of  human  rights  in  the  temporarily  occupied  Crimea, 
in particular in a further General Assembly resolution.
We need to strengthen the international regime of 
de-occupation  of  Crimea.  The  fact  that  at  the  highest 
international level — the General Assembly — Russia 
was recognized as an occupying Power proves that we 
are  on  the  absolutely  right  track.  The  time  has  come 
to  establish  a  new  international  group  of  friends  of 
Ukrainian  Crimea  to  coordinate  and  promote  our 
common  steps.  We  count  on  the  coordinated  and 
targeted support of our international partners.
The  militarization  of  Crimea  is  another  security 
threat  that  affects  the  whole  of  Southern  and  Eastern 
Europe, as well as North Africa and the Middle East. 
Ukraine  strongly  condemns  the  numerous  military 
exercises  conducted  in  occupied  Crimea,  as  well  as 
those close to the borders of Ukraine, in particular that 
known  as  West-2017.  Together  with  our  neighbours 
and partners, we urge Russia to ensure full compliance 
with  its  commitments  under  the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  Vienna 
Document  and  other  international  rules  concerning 
military activity.
4/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
The security and human rights situations in Donbas 
remain  no  less  dramatic  than  in  Crimea.  This  year, 
Ukraine initiated three major ceasefire attempts — the 
Easter,  Harvest  and  Back-to-School  ceasefires.  Yet 
again,  Russian  occupation  troops  and  their  proxies 
violated  them  almost  immediately.  In  breach  of  the 
Minsk agreements, Russia keeps its regular military in 
certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and 
continues to supply heavy weapons and ammunition to 
the occupation troops. It flatly denies the establishment 
of the OSCE permanent control over the Ukraine-Russia 
border,  and  the  release  of  hostages  within  the  Minsk 
process is completely deadlocked.
The  list  of  Ukrainian  hostages  in  Donbas  grows 
constantly. People are captured deliberately. Their only 
fault  is  that  they  have  a  pro-Ukrainian  position.  We 
remember  the  fate  of  16-year-old  Stepan  Chubenko, 
who was killed with five shots in the head after Russians 
saw him wearing a Ukrainian ribbon. Another example 
is the 63-year-old Donetsk theologian Ihor Kozlovsky, 
who  has  been  in  jail  for  over  two  years  under  false 
accusations  and  deprived  of  any  communication  with 
his  family  and  friends.  Russia  still  keeps  at  least  16 
Ukrainian political prisoners on its territory. Ukrainian 
film  director  Oleh  Sentsov  and  Ukrainian  journalist 
Roman Suschenko are among the most prominent cases.
Just  think  about  it.  Stealing  other  nations’  land, 
kidnapping people, conducting a hidden war, downing 
a civilian aircraft, spreading lies globally — is this the 
kind of behaviour we expect from a permanent member 
of  the  Security  Council?  Russia  is  not  a  contributor 
to international security, but its biggest threat. Russia 
is  perhaps  the  only  country  in  the  world  that  has 
conflicts — hot, frozen or potential — with almost all 
its neighbours.
The  key  problem  in  Donbas  is  that  Ukraine  and 
Russia strive for completely different things. Ukraine 
wants  peace  and  restoration  of  sovereignty  over  its 
territory.  Russia  wants  control  over  Ukraine  and 
undermines every effort to restore our sovereign control 
within Ukraine’s borders. To that end, Russia tries to 
exchange  peace  in  Ukraine  for  Ukraine’s  freedom.  I 
want  to  utter  a  very  strong  message  —  Ukraine  will 
never accept that kind of a deal, nor will the international 
community.The  latest  hybrid  peacekeeping  proposals 
from  Moscow  are  yet  another  example  of  Russia’s 
real ambitions: to legalize its proxies and to freeze the 
conflict forever.
We would welcome any proposal that would bring 
peace to my country. We remain convinced that a full-
fledged United Nations peacekeeping operation is the 
only  viable  solution  to  de-escalate,  to  protect  people 
of Ukraine and to get us closer to a political solution. 
That  is  why  the  peacekeepers’  mandate  should  cover 
the  entire  occupied  area,  including  the  Ukrainian-
Russian State border. That is the must. As long as the 
border is used as the main supply route for manpower 
and  weapons  to  Donbas,  there  will  be  no  peace  in 
my country.
The  mission  should  respect  basic  United  Nations 
peacekeeping principles and guidelines. One of them is 
that United Nations peacekeepers should be impartial. 
There  is  no  place  for  the  aggressor’s  personnel.  They 
cannot  be  a  part  of  it  by  definition.  Let  me  stress 
that  any  abuse  of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
toolbox to secure the gains of aggression is absolutely 
unacceptable. If we have an opportunity to bring peace 
to  the  heart  of  Europe,  we  should  get  the  conditions 
right.  A  robust  international  presence  can  also  help 
us cope with the increase in terrorist activities in the 
conflict-affected  areas.  The  terrorist  component  in 
Russia’s  hybrid  war  against  Ukraine  is  clearly  visible 
and has become a reality of everyday life in Donbas.
Three  years  ago,  the  world  was  stunned  when 
Malaysia  Airlines  Flight  MH-17,  with  298  people  on 
board, was blown up in the skies over Donbas. Ukraine 
is determined to do everything to bring to justice those 
responsible  for  that  mass  murder.  Two  investigations, 
technical  and  criminal,  have  been  carried  out.  Both 
revealed  the  details.  Those  who  were  behind  that 
horrible  crime  came  from  Russia.  The  missile  came 
from  Russia.  The  death  of  the  MH-17  victims  is  on 
Russia’s  conscience.  The  five  countries  that  comprise 
the Joint Investigation Team have decided to prosecute 
those responsible for downing Malaysia Airlines Flight 
MH-17 within the Dutch judicial system. 
This year, the International Court of Justice started 
hearing the case brought by Ukraine against Russia for 
the violation of the 1999 International Convention for 
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, and we 
hope  that  the  decision  of  the  United  Nations  highest 
court will help bring the Russian Federation to justice 
for its numerous violations of international law and for 
financing crimes committed since 2014. As the process 
begins, we count on the support and facilitation of all 
States Members of the United Nations.
17-29395
5/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
For  decades,  Ukraine  has  served  as  a  resolute 
contributor  to  global  security.  In  the  name  of  peace 
and in exchange for security assurances, Ukraine gave 
up its nuclear arsenal — the third-largest in the world. 
Twenty years after being invaded by one of those who 
were  bound  to  respect  and,  if  necessary,  to  protect 
Ukraine’s  border,  we  neverthless  remain  a  resolute 
advocate of global non-proliferation and disarmament. 
That is why we strongly condemn the nuclear tests 
and  multiple  launches  of  ballistic  missiles  by  North 
Korea. We are deeply concerned about the continuous 
diversion  of  resources  from  critical  human  needs  to 
fuel Pyongyang’s nuclear arsenal, coupled with serious 
human rights abuses. We resolutely stand for reinforced 
measures to stop Pyongyang’s illegal activities and to 
bring North Korea into line with the international legal 
framework. At the same time, let me reiterate Ukraine’s 
call on the Security Council to undertake an in-depth 
investigation  into  developments  in  the  North  Korean 
nuclear and missiles programme in order to expose any 
possible foreign assistant to Pyongyang in that area.
We  also  express  our  deepest  concern  over  the 
current  situation  in  Syria.  We  believe  that  the  full 
implementation of and adherence to the word and spirit 
of the 2012 Geneva communiqué (A/66/865, annex) and 
Security Council resolution 2254 (2015) are absolutely 
vital for the settlement of the conflict in that country. 
What  draws  our  special  concern  with  regard  to  that 
bloody conflict is Russia’s use of occupied Crimea as 
a military outpost for projecting power in Syria. As the 
war there rages on, a huge number of Russian military 
assets  are  deployed  to  Syria  by  ships  based  in  the 
Crimean harbour.
to 
suffer 
continues 
It  is  also  deeply  disturbing  that  the  African 
from  numerous 
continent 
unresolved  conflicts.  As  a  non-permanent  member  of 
the Security Council, my country has spared no effort 
to  support  the  African  continent  in  safeguarding  the 
main principles of the international order: sovereignty, 
non-interference in domestic affairs, the rule of law and 
peaceful settlement of disputes. 
to 
resolution  2127 
As  the  Chair  of  the  Security  Council  Committee 
established  pursuant 
(2013) 
concerning  the  Central  African  Republic,  we  have 
actively supported regional and international efforts to 
stabilize the situation in the Central African Republic. 
In January 2017, Ukraine assumed the chairmanship of 
the  Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant 
to resolution 1591 (2005) concerning the Sudan, and we 
are determined to contribute to the international efforts 
to resolve the conflict in Darfur. African countries can 
fully count on Ukraine as their reliable friend.
My  country  is  fully  committed  to  implementing 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  to 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Despite 
heavy  defence  expenses  —  more  than  5  per  cent  of 
our  gross  domestic  product  —  Ukraine  continues  to 
go  through  a  fundamental  transformation,  fighting 
corruption,  promoting  judicial  reform,  implementing 
decentralization and improving business opportunities. 
A  year  and  a  half  ago,  the  economic  situation  in 
Ukraine  was  so  dire  that  we  could  only  dream  about 
macroeconomic  stabilization.  Now  we  have  grounds 
to  say  that  economic  recovery  is  in  place.  Among 
our  priorities  within  the  2030  Development  Agenda 
in  Ukraine  are  such  areas  as  ensuring  a  sustainable 
energy  supply,  food  security,  promoting  innovation, 
development and sustainable infrastructure, as well as 
promoting an effective public health system, affordable 
education and decent work. 
I am convinced that no country alone can achieve 
sustainable development without sustainable peace and 
sustainable  security.  There  is  also  no  doubt  that  the 
mitigation of global warming remains an indispensable 
element  of  sustainable  development.  I  am  proud 
that  Ukraine  is  fully  committed  to  our  obligations 
under  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  Our 
intentions in that regard are very serious. Ukraine was 
the first European country to deposit its instrument of 
ratification with the United Nations.
The  United  Nations  has  always  played  a  leading 
role in ensuring that the crimes of the past can never 
happen  again.  The  seventy-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  coincides  with  the  eighty-fifth 
anniversary  of  one  of  the  deadliest  crimes  of  the 
twentieth  century  —  the  Holodomor.  It  was  a  man-
made famine in Ukraine in 1932 and 1933, organized 
by the totalitarian regime of Stalin, which killed from 
7 million to 10 million Ukrainians. Mr. Raphael Lemkin, 
the  author  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, adopted by the 
General Assembly in 1948, described the destruction of 
the Ukrainian nation as a classic example of genocide. 
I appeal to all United Nations States Members to make 
their own historic judgment and to make a decision to 
recognize the Holodomor as an act of genocide.
6/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
This is a challenging time for all of us. Ever more 
people  die  in  wars  and  natural  disasters.  Truth  is 
blindsided  by  post-truth.  The  world  is  divided  again 
between those who believe that freedom is indispensable 
and those who believe that freedom is expendable. One 
group wants to reach a better future, the other drags us 
to the past. It is time for those who believe in freedom 
to  come  together.  It  is  time  for  freedom  to  be  strong, 
convincing and convinced. Let it be that way.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Ukraine for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Petro Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the 
State of Palestine
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State  of 
Palestine, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Abbas, President of the State of Palestine, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Abbas  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Twenty-
four  years  have  passed  since  the  signing  of  the  Oslo 
Accords,  an  interim  agreement  that  set  a  five-year 
period  for  bringing  an  end  to  the  Israeli  occupation, 
giving hope to the Palestinian people that they would 
soon achieve independence within their State and peace 
between Palestinians and Israelis. What is left of that 
hope  today?  We  recognized  the  State  of  Israel  within 
the 1967 borders, but Israel’s continued refusal to do the 
same  has  called  into  question  the  mutual  recognition 
that we signed in Oslo in 1993.
Since  my  address  to  the  Assembly  last  year  (see 
A/71/PV.14), when I urged us to make 2017 the year for 
ending the Israeli occupation of the territory of the State 
of  Palestine,  the  Israeli  Government  has  relentlessly 
pursued  its  settlement  campaign  on  our  land,  in 
contravention  of  all  international  conventions  and  the 
relevant resolutions on the question of Palestine. It has 
also  persisted  in  its  flagrant  disregard  for  reaching  a 
two-State  solution,  resorting  to  delaying  policies  and 
tactics and devising pretexts to evade its responsibility 
for ending its occupation of the territory of the State of 
Palestine. Instead of addressing the underlying issues 
and resolving the root causes of the conflict, it has tried 
to  divert  international  attention  to  secondary  issues 
that in fact are caused by its colonial policies.
While  we  continue 
to  call  —  as  does 
the 
international  community  —  for  an  end  to  the  Israeli 
occupation of our State’s territory, Israel incites trouble 
and  makes  false  accusations,  pretends  that  there  is 
no  Palestinian  partner  and  imposes  unreasonable, 
obstructive  conditions.  Israel  is  well  aware,  as  we 
all  are,  that  its  occupation  breeds  provocations  and 
violence.  Its  military  occupation  of  our  land  has  now 
lasted for more than half a century.
Ten  years  ago,  in  a  decision  made  by  the  United 
States,  we  agreed  together  to  establish  a  tripartite 
committee  to  address  the  issue  of  incitement,  made 
up  of  the  United  States,  Palestine  and  Israel.  The 
committee  worked  for  some  time  but  was  eventually 
disbanded, and since then we have called for its revival, 
to no avail. Who is committing incitement now? And 
who is trying to maintain it? It is therefore very strange 
to  hear  some  of  those  who  should  be  responsible  for 
ending the occupation refer to it as a half-occupation, 
or an alleged occupation.
What  is  meant  by  “alleged  occupation”?  For  50 
years we have languished under the yoke of occupation, 
and  now  someone  who  is  responsible  says  that  this 
is  an  alleged  occupation.  That  is  unfair,  wrong  and 
unacceptable. Israel’s continuation of the occupation is 
an affront to the international community. The United 
Nations has a legal, political, moral and humanitarian 
obligation  to  end  it  and  enable  the  Palestinian  people 
to live in freedom and prosperity in their independent 
State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as its capital and 
within the 4 June 1967 borders. That is the responsibility 
of the United Nations and the international community.
There can be no doubt that draining the quagmire 
of  the  colonial  occupation  of  our  land  and  ending  its 
unjust,  oppressive  and  illegal  practices  against  our 
people  would  have  an  enormous  effect  on  the  fight 
against terrorism, thereby depriving terrorist groups of 
one  of  the  key  rallying  cries  they  exploit  to  promote 
their obscurantist ideas. We therefore reiterate that it is 
vitally urgent to end the Israeli occupation of our land, 
since it is an integral part of the efforts that we must 
17-29395
7/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
all make to confront such groups. Palestinians oppose 
all  internal  and  international  terrorist  organizations, 
whatever  their  nature,  origins  or  character.  We  stand 
against international terrorism and we are fighting it.
this Hall. The fact is that Israel is rejecting a two-State 
solution, posing a real threat to Israelis and Palestinians 
alike.  We  will  therefore  be  compelled  to  undertake  a 
comprehensive strategic review of the entire process.
We have explored every avenue and exerted enormous 
efforts  to  achieve  peace  with  our  Israeli  neighbours. 
Together with other Arab and Islamic States, we have 
adopted  the  invaluable  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  aimed 
at  resolving  the  Palestinian  and  Arab-Israeli  conflict. 
The Initiative states that upon Israel’s withdrawal from 
the  Palestinian  and  Arab  territories  —  the  Golan  and 
Shaba’a  farmlands  —  occupied  since  1967,  the  Arab 
and Islamic States will recognize Israel and normalize 
relations  with  it.  What  has  been  the  Israeli  response? 
Fifty-seven Arab and Islamic States have said that they 
are  ready  to  recognize  and  normalize  relations  with 
Israel, but Israel is not interested.
In  2003,  there  was  also  the  2003  Quartet  road 
map  for  an  Israeli-Palestinian  peace,  endorsed  by  the 
Security Council and accepted by Palestine. It, too, was 
rejected  by  the  Israeli  Government  —  so  apparently 
Israel  is  above  the  law.  Next,  a  French-led  initiative 
for peace attempted to break the stalemate in the peace 
process  and  ensure  a  successful  effort  to  salvage  the 
peace  process  and  a  two-State  solution.  It  led  to  the 
convening earlier this year in Paris of the Conference 
for  Peace  in  the  Middle  East,  which  was  attended  by 
70  States  and  four  international  organizations.  Israel 
has rejected and boycotted all of those efforts. Besides 
those  I  have  already  mentioned,  President  Vladimir 
Putin of Russia and President Xi Jinping of China have 
also launched initiatives for peace. The latest of those 
peace efforts — all of which we are grateful for — is 
being  led  by  United  States  President  Donald  Trump. 
Where  are  those  initiatives  and  why  will  Israel  not 
accept them?
For our part, we have also repeatedly tried to revive 
the peace process. We have called on the Israeli Prime 
Minister  simply  to  affirm  his  commitment  to  a  two-
State  solution  and  sit  with  us  at  the  negotiation  table 
to delineate the borders between Israel and the State of 
Palestine in order to open a path for meaningful talks on 
resolving all the other final status issues. Unfortunately, 
he rejected that offer. We have continued our genuine 
efforts to achieve a successful peace process, and Israel 
nonetheless  continues  to  ignore  its  commitments  and 
obstruct those efforts through its relentless settlement 
activities. There is no place left for the State of Palestine, 
and that is unacceptable both to us and to those here in 
A commitment to peace by one side is never enough 
to  achieve  peace.  Either  we  are  free  or  not  free.  We 
have issued warnings in the past, and continue to do so 
today,  about  the  Israeli  policies  aimed  at  entrenching 
the occupation and colonial facts on the ground in East 
Jerusalem. We have pointed out that those policies fuel 
religious animosity and could lead to a violent religious 
conflict. We have called on the Israeli Government to 
uphold the historic and legal status quo of the city’s holy 
sites. However, since its occupation of East Jerusalem 
in  1967,  the  Israeli  Government  has  repeatedly  and 
unilaterally annexed Jerusalem. Jerusalem is occupied. 
It also decided to annex Golan, and did so. We rejected 
that at the time and continue to do so, together with the 
entier international community, including the Security 
Council.
The  Security  Council, 
the  principal  world 
authority on peace and security, has adopted numerous 
resolutions stating that such annexation processes are 
illegal.  To  whom  should  we  turn?  Since  the  Security 
Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions  are  not 
being implemented, to whom should we turn? We have 
not chosen a path of terrorism or violence. Jerusalem is 
an occupied city. Israel’s decisions and practices there 
are null and void and entirely illegal. The same applies 
to all the Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem and the 
rest of the occupied Palestinian territory.
Israel’s attempts to change the historic status quo 
in Al-Quds and particularly the status and integrity of 
the Al-Aqsa Mosque can be described only as playing 
with  fire  and  an  infringement  on  our  responsibilities 
and those of our brother country Jordan. We are both 
responsible  for  the  city.  We  have  warned  the  Israeli 
Government  about  the  implications  of  such  an  act  of 
aggression  and  will  hold  it  fully  responsible  for  the 
consequences. We do not desire a religious war, which 
would  be  dangerous  for  everyone.  Our  conflict  is 
political, not religious, so let us leave religious issues 
out of the equation.
Despite the ongoing occupation and its oppressive 
policies and practices, we have been working effectively 
to  build  the  institutions  of  our  State,  which  has  been 
recognized by a majority — 138 of those present — of 
the States Members of the United Nations. I would like 
8/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
to take this opportunity to once again thank all of the 
countries  that  have  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine 
and  have  voted  for  upgrading  its  status  at  the  United 
Nations. That is certainly helping to remedy the historic 
injustice  that  has  befallen  our  people  and  showing 
support for the goal of peace between the Israelis and 
Palestinians in the Middle East and around the world.
I also stressed in my address to the Assembly last 
year  that  the  status  quo  in  the  occupied  territory  of 
the State of Palestine is unsustainable. However, since 
the  situation  has  only  deteriorated,  owing  to  Israel’s 
insistence  on  pursuing  its  occupation,  aggressive 
policies  and  unending  violations  of  international  law, 
we  must  once  again  call  on  Israel,  as  the  occupying 
Power,  to  fully  respect  and  uphold  all  the  obligations 
that its occupation implies and bear the consequences.
We  cannot  continue  to  be  an  Authority  that  has 
no authority or to allow the occupation to continue at 
no  cost.  We  are  fast  approaching  that  point.  If  Israel 
does  not  want  a  two-State  solution,  if  it  does  not 
want peace, let it assume its responsibilities and bear 
their  consequences,  because  we  will  not  bear  those 
responsibilities  for  them.  Today  a  two-State  solution 
is  in  jeopardy.  As  Palestinians,  we  cannot  stand 
still  in  the  face  of  that  threat,  which  is  targeting  our 
national,  political  and  social  existence  on  our  land 
and  endangering  regional  and  international  peace 
and  security.  We  will  have  to  take  steps  or  look  for 
alternatives in order to preserve our national existence 
and maintain the prospects for peace and security. But 
any option we try will be peaceful.
In  such  a  situation,  we  have  the  right  to  seek 
alternatives that preserve our rights and protect our land 
and our people from a hardening system of the type of 
apartheid that ended in South Africa long ago but that 
continues to persist in Palestine. Is that acceptable? Can 
the world accept an apartheid regime in the twenty-first 
century in Palestine? Why, then, is there one?
On 
the  other  hand,  we  have  called  on 
the 
International  Criminal  Court,  which  is  our  right.  If 
nobody  wants  to  listen  to  us,  then  we  will  pursue  all 
avenues to justice. We have called on the International 
Criminal Court to open an investigation and prosecute 
Israeli  officials  for  their  involvement  in  settlement 
activities and aggressions against our people. We will 
continue  to  pursue  our  accessions  to  international 
conventions, protocols and organizations, as Palestine 
has  acquired  observer  status  pursuant  to  resolution 
67/19 of 2012. I will convene the Palestinian National 
Council in the near future to operationalize a strategic 
review of these efforts.
The President took the Chair.
Palestinians, Arabs and the world as a whole have 
a choice as to whether to respect international law and 
implement  the  two-State  solution  based  on  the  1967 
borders.  We  will  give  the  efforts  being  undertaken 
by  President  Donald  Trump,  the  Quartet  and  the 
international  community  at  large  every  chance  to 
succeed  so  that  a  historic  agreement  or  deal  may  be 
reached.  We  have  heard  that  they  are  trying  to  strike 
a historic deal. We would like to thank them and hope 
that it will come to fruition soon.
We  stress  the  two-State  solution,  which  would 
enable the State of Palestine to live side-by-side with the 
State of Israel in security and peace. But if the two-State 
solution were to be fall apart due to the establishment 
of a one-State reality with two systems — a system of 
apartheid  —  following  the  unchecked  imposition  of 
the  occupation  that  our  people  and  the  international 
community reject, that would be a failure, and neither 
the international community nor we will have any other 
choice but to continue the struggle and demand full and 
equal  rights  for  all  inhabitants  of  historic  Palestine. 
This  is  not  a  threat,  but  we  are  warning  Israel  of  the 
realities  and  the  consequences  of  its  ongoing  policies 
that  are  gravely  undermining  the  two-State  solution. 
What do the Israelis want? Even if they talk about other 
issues, we continue to choose the two-State solution.
Our problem is with the Israeli colonial occupation, 
not  with  Judaism  as  a  religion.  Judaism  for  us 
Palestinians,  be  they  Christian  or  Muslim,  will  never 
be considered a threat. It is an Abrahamic religion, like 
Islam  and  Christianity.  God  Almighty  tells  us  in  the 
Qur’an that, in the name of God the Compassionate and 
the  Merciful,  we  should  not  distinguish  between  his 
messengers. Indeed, all His messengers — Mohammed, 
Jesus  and  others  —  are  equal.  All  these  religions 
are  equal,  and  we  do  not  make  distinctions  between 
prophets  or  messengers.  On 
this  occasion,  we 
congratulate  the  Jews  on  their  new  year.  We  would 
also  like  to  congratulate  Muslims  for  their  new  Hijri 
year starting tomorrow. This is proof of our desire for a 
rapprochement among religions.
We  have  dutifully  upheld  our  responsibilities 
towards our people in the Gaza Strip despite the split 
with Hamas that has been in place since 2007. Since that 
17-29395
9/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
time, we have provided all forms of support on our own 
to our people in Gaza, who are gravely suffering from 
the cruel Israeli blockade. We have repeatedly affirmed 
that no one is more aware of the interests of our people 
in Gaza Strip than we are. We are eager to see to the 
interests  of  the  people  in  Gaza  served.  We  have  said 
that there will be no State in Gaza alone and there will 
be no Palestinian State without the Gaza Strip. A State 
in  Gaza  alone  is  a  false  dream,  and  our  State  will  be 
complete only when the Gaza Strip is part of it.
I must express my relief at the agreement reached 
in Cairo as a result of Egyptian efforts. We are grateful 
for those efforts aimed at nullifying the measures taken 
by  Hamas  following  the  split  with  us,  including  the 
formation  of  a  Government.  The  Hamas  Government 
has been cancelled, and there is now a commitment to 
the National Unity Government, which is a Government 
of national consensus, which will enable it to exercise 
its  authority  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  allow  for  general 
elections to be held. This agreement has met with our 
satisfaction. Next week, our Government is going to the 
Gaza Strip to assume its responsibilities. We wish the 
Government every success.
In my address to the General Assembly last year, 
I appealed to the Government of the United Kingdom 
to  rectify  the  grave  injustice  it  inflicted  upon  the 
Palestinian people when, in 1917, it issued the Balfour 
Declaration,  promising  Jews  a  national  homeland  in 
Palestine, despite the fact that Palestine was inhabited 
by  the  Palestinian  people.  Some  97  per  cent  of  the 
population of Palestine at that time were Palestinians, 
who were disregarded. Again, Palestine at that time was 
inhabited by the Palestinian people and was among the 
most progressive and prosperous countries in the region. 
It should not have been colonized or placed under the 
mandate of a great Power. The British Government has 
not taken a single step to date to correct this historical 
injustice  against  our  people.  It  should  apologize, 
provide us with reparations and recognize the State of 
Palestine. We talked to its representatives at length and 
so far they have not provided a response. What is even 
worse  is  that  in  November  they  want  to  celebrate  the 
centenary of this crime against our people.
  The  silence  of  the  international  community  with 
respect to Israel’s aggressive policies has emboldened 
the  country  to  continue  its  policies.  I  would  remind 
the  Assembly  that,  since  its  establishment,  Israel  has 
violated numerous provisions of international law. It has 
violated the Charter of the United Nations and continues 
to do so. It has violated General Assembly resolutions 
181 (II), 194 (III) and Security Council resolution 242 
(1967). We would recall that Article 42 of the Charter 
of the United Nations provides for the possible use of 
force  to  maintain  or  restore  international  peace  and 
security. This could apply to those who conduct acts of 
aggression against the land of others.
Israel  has  taken  a  large  part  of  our  territory  and 
was not deterred from doing so by the United Nations. 
Resolution 194 (III) provided for the return of refugees 
at that time. However, the United Nations did not adopt 
any follow-up resolution. Security Council resolutions 
have called for withdrawal from the occupied territories. 
Where  are  those  resolutions?  If  the  United  Nations 
cannot implement its resolutions, who will? Israel does 
not want to. Is Israel above the law? There are double 
standards  in  dealing  with  different  countries.  That  is 
the Assembly’s responsibility.
To  salvage  the  peace  process  and  the  two-State 
solution, I urge the Organization and its Member States 
to adopt the following measures.
First,  they  should  actively  pursue  efforts  to  bring 
an end to the Israeli occupation of the State of Palestine 
within a set time frame. It is no longer enough to issue 
generic statements calling for the end to the occupation 
and  the  achievement  of  peace  without  a  deadline. 
Efforts  must  be  made  to  implement  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative, including a just solution for the Palestinian 
refugee  question,  in  accordance  with  resolution  194 
(III). The Arab Peace Initiative addressed the issue of 
refugees  very  well  in  referring  to  a  just  and  agreed-
upon solution, not one imposed upon a certain party, in 
accordance with resolution 194 (III). Israel disregarded 
those  resolutions,  riding  roughshod  over  them.  To 
whom should we complain?
Second,  they  should  act  to  bring  to  a  halt  to  all 
settlement  activities  in  occupied  Palestinian  land,  as 
demanded  in  numerous  United  Nations  resolutions, 
including the most recent Security Council resolution, 
2334 (2016), in addition to the operative paragraphs of 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  An  occupying  Power 
should  not  expel  the  people  from  their  land.  This  is 
in  the  text  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  Who  is 
responsible for implementing those texts? Israel refuses 
to do so. What is the international community doing?
Third, the Organization and Member States should 
ensure international protection to the lands and people 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  until  the  occupation  ends, 
10/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
as  we  are  unable  to  provide  protection  to  our  people. 
Given all the forces, the arms that we are facing every 
day, who will protect us if the Member States do not? 
Many times we have put forward draft resolutions, but 
they are in vain.
Fourth,  they  should  demand  that  Israel  endorse 
and  commit  to  the  borders  of  1967  as  the  basis  for 
the  two-State  solution  and  set  such  borders  in  line 
with  international  resolutions.  Once  we  delineate  the 
borders, each party can act in its territory as it pleases 
without  affecting  or  damaging  the  rights  of  the  other 
party. Israel builds wherever it wants today, demolishing 
houses every day; even schools and hospitals are being 
demolished. Nobody raises an eyebrow.
Fifth,  I  must  ask  all  the  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations that have recognized Israel to state that 
they  have  recognized  Israel  on  the  basis  of  the  1967 
borders, thereby aligning themselves with international 
resolutions and reaffirming their commitment to those 
resolutions — even those who recognized Israel on the 
basis  of  resolution  181  (II).  Resolution  181  (II)  was 
violated. Hence my question: where are the borders of 
Israel  that  Member  States  are  recognizing?  How  can 
Member States recognize a State that has no borders? 
Israel  has  not  even  decided  on  its  own  borders.  Yet 
international law states that a State is a land with borders. 
But  Israel  has  no  borders.  How  can  one  recognize  a 
State that has no clearly demarcated borders?
Sixth, I call on all States to end all forms of direct 
and  indirect  involvement  with,  and  support  to,  the 
illegal  Israeli  colonial  settlement  regime  on  the  land 
of the occupied State of Palestine, in accordance with 
United Nations resolutions and the affirmed positions 
of States in that regard. Such action would be similar 
to  the  international  community’s  approach  to  the 
apartheid regime in South Africa. We should not deal 
with  settlements.  We  should  not  condone  settlements. 
The  black  list  of  countries  that  are  dealing  illegally 
with Israeli settlements should be exposed.
Seventh,  I  urge  those  States  that  have  not  yet 
recognized  the  State  of  Palestine  to  do  so.  I  do  not 
understand  how  recognizing  the  State  of  Palestine 
within  the  1967  borders  harms  the  chances  of  peace. 
There could be minor amendments agreed between the 
two  parties,  but  the  basis  is  1967,  so  our  borders  are 
well known. Where are the borders of Israel? How can 
recognizing the State of Palestine harm the chances of 
peace, especially since we Palestinians have recognized 
the State of Israel within the 1967 borders?
Eighth, we look to the Security Council to approve 
our  application  for  full  membership  of  the  State  of 
Palestine  in  the  United  Nations.  What  do  we  lack? 
What  is  missing?  Every  day  we  prove  that  we  are 
eligible  for  such  status.  All  those  who  support  the 
two-State  solution  should  recognize  two  States,  not 
one  State  —  Palestine  and  Israel.  If  a  Member  State 
recognizes Israel, it should recognize Palestine.
Ninth,  we  urge  the  international  community  to 
continue  providing  economic  and  financial  support 
to  the  Palestinian  people  to  achieve  self-reliance.  If 
the occupation ends we will say “thank you”. We will 
be  self-reliant.  Unfortunately,  because  we  are  under 
occupation,  we  can  only  seek  assistance,  and  we  are 
grateful  to  the  international  community  because  it 
is  providing  assistance.  Help  us  to  rid  ourselves  of 
the  occupation,  and  we  will  thank  Member  States  for 
their help.
We  also  urge  the  international  community  to 
continue providing support to the United Nations Relief 
and  Works  Agency  for  Palestinian  Refugees  in  the 
Near East (UNRWA) to enable it to continue providing 
humanitarian  assistance.  In  that  connection,  we  warn 
against attempts to eliminate item 7 on the agenda of 
the Human Rights Council, or to change the mandate 
of UNRWA.
Efforts are also under way to obstruct the issuance 
of the list of companies operating in Israeli settlements. 
That is a black list. Why should we hide that list? It is 
similar  to  terrorism.  Everybody  should  see  the  list  to 
know who violates international law and who respects 
such law.
Tenth,  we  once  again  affirm  our  commitment  to 
respecting human rights and international conventions, 
and to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, 
the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change and all other treaties and conventions that we 
have  acceded  to.  We  respect  everything  that  we  have 
acceded to or adopted, and we go hand in hand with the 
international community, of which we are part of.
The  State  of  Palestine  will 
those 
imperatives, where appropriate, in the draft resolutions 
to be presented to the General Assembly. We call on the 
Assembly to vote in favour of those draft resolutions, 
with the clear aim of preserving the two-State solution, 
reflect 
17-29395
11/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
salvaging and promoting peace and achieving security 
and  stability  and  prosperity  for  both  Israelis  and 
Palestinians and for the people of the entire region.
In conclusion, allow me to salute our great people, 
who  remain  steadfast  in  their  homeland  despite  their 
suffering  and  peaceful  struggle  against 
foreign 
occupation.  The  culture  of  peace  is  prevailing  among 
Palestinians.  Those  joining  Da’esh  and  the  Al-Nusra 
Front are not from Palestine.
I  salute  our  people  of  Jerusalem,  who  exhibited 
one of the most shining examples of peaceful popular 
resistance  against  the  Israeli  colonial  occupation. 
When they were prevented from praying, they prayed 
outside  —  they  prayed  and  were  victorious.  I  salute 
our  people  in  exile  and  in  the  diaspora.  I  salute  our 
people who remain steadfast in the West Bank and the 
besieged Gaza Strip. I salute our glorious martyrs and 
our courageous prisoners in Israeli prisons.
I  tell  them  all  that  freedom  is  coming  and  is 
inevitable and that the occupation will come to an end. 
That will come about either with the independence of 
the State of Palestine, living side by side in peace and 
security  with  the  State  of  Israel  on  the  1967  borders, 
or,  if  Israel  chooses,  with  equal  rights  for  all  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  land  of  historic  Palestine  from  the 
river to the sea. Which will they accept?
When South Africa was liberated from the apartheid 
regime, Nelson Mandela said that he was grateful to the 
whole world and the United Nations, which contributed 
to and supported the end of apartheid in South Africa. 
Mandela added that their victory would not be complete 
until  the  Palestinian  people  were  victorious.  We, 
together  with  the  Assembly,  are  entrusted  to  end  the 
apartheid  in  Palestine  —  person  by  person,  State  by 
State, including the super-Powers. All of us should stand 
together.  It  is  a  commitment  that  should  be  fulfilled. 
Will the Assembly fulfil its duty? I very much hope so.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the State of Palestine 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  President  of  the  State 
of  Palestine,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Donald Tusk, President of the 
European Council
The President: The Assembly will hear a statement 
by the President of the European Council.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the 
European  Council,  and 
to  address 
the Assembly.
inviting  him 
Mr.  Tusk  (European  Council):  The  European 
Union  (EU)  stands  for  freedom  and  a  credible  rules-
based global order, because that order is a real sine qua 
non condition for peace, stability and a global economy 
that  works  for  everyone.  An  alternative  to  that  order 
is  chaos,  which  always  encourages  violence,  egoism 
and extremism.
The  United  Nations  is  the  best  tool  we  have  to 
address,  on  a  global  scale,  today’s  conflicts,  famine, 
forced displacement, terrorism and a return to nuclear 
tensions. For the EU and its member States, it is imperative 
that the United Nations rise to those challenges. That is 
why,  together,  we  contribute  approximately  one  third 
of  United  Nations  core  financing,  make  one  third  of 
United Nations peacekeeping contributions and put in 
half  of  all  voluntary  contributions  to  United  Nations 
funds and programmes.
However,  we  also  expect  the  United  Nations  to 
become  a  more  energetic  and  a  less  bureaucratic 
Organization  that  can  act  with  clarity  and  purpose  in 
all  its  actions.  Therefore,  the  EU  considers  the  ideas 
for reforming the United Nations currently on the table 
as  the  necessary  minimum.  What  is  needed  is  more 
ambition, not less.
The United Nations remains a vital forum for debate 
and a tool to implement our collective will, even if it 
has declined in popular esteem in recent years. I take 
the action by the Security Council on 11 September (see 
S/PV.8042)  to  sanction  North  Korea  for  carrying  out 
more nuclear testing as a sign that the capacity for real 
leadership and unity is present. Nevertheless, it is still 
too little. No country should be allowed to undermine 
the  global  non-proliferation  regime  or  to  threaten 
peaceful  countries.  Together  with  Japan  and  South 
12/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
Korea,  our  close  friends  and  strategic  partners,  the 
European  Union  calls  for  a  peaceful  denuclearization 
of the Korean peninsula. We also call on all concerned 
to  uphold  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action 
with Iran as a multilateral deal that is delivering more 
security for us all.
Europe  also  wants  to  work  in  partnership  with 
African countries on challenges ranging from security 
and  counter-terrorism  to  economic  growth  and  job 
creation.  We  look  forward  to  advancing  those  goals 
together at the African-European summit in Ivory Coast 
at the end of November. The European Union is already 
cooperating  closely  with  United  Nations  missions 
on  peacekeeping  and  conflict  prevention  in  Mali,  the 
Central African Republic and other conflict zones.
We  are  also  doing  our  best  to  alleviate  a  major 
humanitarian  crisis,  affecting  more  than  20  million 
people,  in  the  Lake  Chad  basin,  South  Sudan  and 
Somalia. Yet more needs to be done. Now is the time to 
wake up to those escalating situations before it is really 
too late.
When  it  comes  to  the  global  refugee  crisis,  the 
EU continues to assume its responsibility by receiving 
people  in  need  of  protection  and  by  assisting  host 
countries closer to the conflict zones. For three years 
now, the EU has appealed to the international community 
to take up its responsibility for refugee protection and 
irregular migration. I am doing the same today. In that 
context, the European Union is actively supporting the 
United Nations process to develop global compacts for 
refugees  and  for  regular,  safe  and  orderly  migration. 
The engagement of Member States is needed right now, 
both in terms of money for humanitarian assistance and 
more  resettlement  for  those  displaced  by  conflicts  in 
Syria, Yemen, Myanmar and especially across Africa.
is 
At the same time, we should crack down on human 
smugglers,  who  exploit  vulnerable  people  and  violate 
sovereign  borders.  I  welcome  that  the  International 
Criminal  Court  Prosecutor 
the 
smugglers  in  Libya  for  crimes  against  humanity. 
We  should  treat  them,  via  a  system  of  international 
sanctions, just as harshly as those engaged in terrorism 
and piracy. The European Union calls on international 
agencies  to  increase  their  presence  on  the  ground  in 
Libya immediately, so that we can work to improve the 
situation of those victimized by the smugglers.
investigating 
The year 2017 showed us that Da’esh as a territorial 
entity  is  fated  for  defeat,  which  is  good  news.  Sadly, 
terrorist  attacks, 
however,  repeated 
in 
Europe,  demonstrate  that  the  threat  continues.  We 
need to keep on strengthening the global fight against 
terrorism and violent extremism. In short, we must be 
more determined than they are.
including 
Doing  more  on  counter-radicalization  within 
the  United  Nations  is  badly  needed.  We  welcome  the 
establishment  by  the  industry  of  the  Global  Internet 
Forum  to  Counter  Terrorism  to  work  in  tandem  with 
United  Nations  structures.  The  European  Union  has 
called on the major online companies to develop, as a 
priority, the means for automatic deletion of extremist 
content  immediately  after  posting.  To  the  Muslim 
leaders  of  the  world,  I  repeat  the  appeal  I  made  after 
the London Bridge attack in June: their strong stance 
against Islamist extremism will be a real support in the 
fight against terrorism.
to 
Finally,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change 
is  the  cornerstone  of  global  efforts  to  tackle  climate 
change  in  an  effective  way  and  implement  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The EU remains 
determined 
the  Agreement  swiftly 
and  fully  and  to  support  our  partners,  in  particular 
vulnerable  countries,  in  the  fight  against  climate 
change. We will work with all partners that share our 
conviction that the Agreement is necessary to protect 
our planet, that it is fit for purpose and that, in turn, it 
is good for economic growth and future jobs.
implement 
We meet at a time when the world is poised between 
hope  and  fear.  The  global  economy  and  trade  are 
expanding, but security tensions are rising and global 
cooperation  is  being  increasingly  questioned.  Making 
international action robust, credible and transformative 
is the challenge. The European Union will never give 
up working with and within the United Nations until we 
meet this challenge.
The European Union and the United Nations were 
created in answer to the atrocities of the Second World 
War. That is why our European priority will always be to 
react vigorously against evil, violence and lawlessness 
in international life. When confronting evil, the EU and 
the United Nations cannot hesitate.
In  our  political  life  there  are  situations  that  are 
black and white and are crystal clear, such as the case 
of  North  Korea’s  nuclear  blackmail,  terrorism,  and 
the aggression on Ukraine. It is in such cases that we 
need to demonstrate that we are still able to distinguish 
between good and evil. Sometimes that takes courage, 
17-29395
13/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
but  the  United  Nations  is  not  there  to  cowardly  look 
for a compromise with evil, but to mobilize the global 
community  in  the  fight  against  it.  Therefore  a  moral 
judgment of reality, clear and univocal, should be the 
first principle of our common action.
Many people in the world still believe that in this 
Hall have gathered those who have not given up on the 
ethical dimension of politics in the name of their own 
egoistic  interests.  Let  us  show  them  that  their  trust 
is justified.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the European Council 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Tusk,  President  of  the  European 
Council, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Mark Rutte, Prime Minister 
and Minister for General Affairs of the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for General 
Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of  the 
Netherlands, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Rutte  (Netherlands):  Every  era  and  every 
decade has its problems, great and small. The problems 
we  face  now  seem  overwhelming.  These  days  many 
people worry about the future, which is understandable. 
The  past  few  years  have  been  marked  by  terrorist 
attacks all over the world.
In  countries  like  Myanmar,  Syria,  the  Central 
African Republic and Yemen, the population is suffering 
as a result of wars and conflicts. More and more people 
are  fleeing  their  homes  because  of  violence,  scarcity 
or poverty, leaving behind everything they have. Only 
recently, floods claimed lives in the United States and 
Asia, and Hurricane Irma has left a trail of destruction 
in  its  wake,  including  in  the  Caribbean  part  of  the 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands.  Nuclear  issues  are  once 
again  a  major  concern,  and  geopolitical  tensions  are 
increasing.
That  is  the  picture  today.  But  if  we  take  a  long-
term  perspective  —  and,  as  a  historian,  I  like  to  do 
that — there are grounds for optimism. This building 
here in New York — United Nations Headquarters — is 
concrete  proof  that  progress  is  possible.  Here  in  this 
inviolable international zone, thousands of people from 
every  continent  work  together  to  foster  peace,  justice 
and development in a world governed by international 
law. That is no easy task, far from it. But advances are 
being  made.  Sometimes  we  take  three  steps  forward 
and two steps back, but if one takes a long-term view, 
one can see clear progress.
Think  back  to  when  the  United  Nations  was 
established  in  1945.  Europe  lay  in  ruins,  as  did  Asia. 
Two  nuclear  bombs  had  been  dropped  on  Japan.  The 
Cold  War  was  around  the  corner  and  would  hold  the 
world in its grip for decades. But the destruction caused 
by two world wars united the nations of the world in a 
shared belief that it should never happen again.Franklin 
D. Roosevelt put it this way in February 1945:
“The point in history at which we stand is full of 
promise and of danger. The world will either move 
towards  unity  and  widely  shared  prosperity  or  it 
will move apart”.
The world of today is indeed a much better world, 
and not just geopolitically. In 2015 we took stock of the 
progress we had made on the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Extreme  poverty  and  maternal  mortality  had 
been  halved,  and  child  mortality  had  been  almost 
halved.  Ninety  per  cent  of  children  in  developing 
countries are now receiving primary education. Despite 
all the very real problems that confront us today, I still 
see grounds for optimism. We cannot change the world 
overnight, but we can improve the lives of individuals 
step by step. And we are doing so.
The  United  Nations  plays  a  crucial  role 
in 
those  achievements.  The  United  Nations  is  the  only 
organization  where  everyone  sits  at  the  table,  and 
remains there. While other institutions struggle with an 
increasing lack of credibility, faith in the added value 
of the United Nations remains strong among the world’s 
citizens. We must not let them down.
The  Netherlands  and 
its  Kingdom  partners 
Curaçao, Aruba and Sint Maarten have always attached 
great  importance  to  cooperation  within  the  United 
Nations.  Our  small,  outward-looking  kingdom  could 
not  exist  without  strong  multilateral  institutions  and 
an  effective  international  legal  order.  As  a  trading 
14/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
nation, our prosperity depends on a stable world. And 
after the Malaysia Airlines Flight MH-17 disaster and 
attacks  in  neighbouring  countries,  the  people  of  the 
Netherlands  are  increasingly  aware  that  our  domestic 
security depends on cooperation with other countries. 
It  is  very  important  to  the  Netherlands  and  to  the 
victims’ next of kin that justice is seen to be done for 
those who perished on Flight MH-17. It has been agreed 
that the next step — the prosecution and trial of those 
responsible — will take place in the Netherlands. We 
are  working  with  all  the  countries  involved  to  make 
that possible.
food  security, 
The problems confronting today’s world — climate 
change,  migration, 
terrorism  and 
cybercrime — are by definition international. No single 
country  can  tackle  them  in  isolation.  We  need  each 
other.  Instead  of  becoming  more  inward-looking,  as 
united nations we need to take a step outwards. In this 
turbulent world, the importance of the United Nations 
is growing every day.
Next  year,  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  will 
be  even  more  focused  on  the  United  Nations.  In 
January  2018,  we  begin  our  one-year  term  on  the 
Security  Council,  taking  over  from  Italy.  This  shared 
arrangement is a good example of European partnership 
within  international  organizations.  We  would  like  to 
see  more  such  cooperation.  Our  two  countries  even 
share  some  of  the  same  priorities,  such  as  tackling 
people-smuggling  in  Libya,  an  issue  that  is  of  great 
concern to the whole of Europe.
For  next  year,  as  a  temporary  member  of  the 
Security Council, we have set three priorities: a strong 
United Nations and a secure and sustainable world. We 
will  work  in  a  transparent  way  to  achieve  that  goal, 
each element of which is equally important.
The  first  priority,  a  strong  United  Nations,  is 
essential.  For  that,  reform  and  modernization  are 
crucial.  As 
the  new  Secretary-General,  António 
Guterres,  has  said,  “The  onus  falls  on  the  United 
Nations  to  prove  its  worth”.  He  has  been  active  from 
day  one,  working  to  adapt  the  United  Nations  to  new 
realities. His ambitious agenda inspires confidence for 
the  future.  The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  supports 
his vision and approach, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to call for a joint effort to implement his 
reform plans. It is time to follow through. And I do not 
only mean the Secretary-General, but all of us here in 
this great Hall. Saying that the onus falls on the United 
Nations means that the onus falls on us.
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  wants  to  see  a 
more effective and efficient United Nations, with better 
cooperation among the various agencies. After all, the 
fields in which the United Nations is active — human 
rights,  peace  and  security,  and 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  —  are  all  inextricably 
linked. The Netherlands already works in this way. We 
call it the 3-D approach: an integrated effort to tackle 
development, defence and diplomacy.
We would also like to see the role of the Resident 
Coordinator reinforced. Moreover, the United Nations 
will  have  to  work  in  a  results-oriented  way,  adopt  a 
more modern personnel policy and bolster its internal 
transparency  and  accountability.  Those  are  all  issues 
that we will press for in the coming period.
Our  second  priority  next  year 
is  of  course 
security.  The  key  word  here  is  “prevention”.  We  are 
not  devoting  enough  attention  to  the  early  stages  of 
conflict development. That has to change. We need an 
organization equipped and ready for action at all stages 
of  conflict.  That  is  already  happening  in  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission in Mali (MINUSMA), in which the Netherlands 
is participating and will continue to participate in 2018. 
What is new is that we are using intelligence to carry 
out  long-range  reconnaissance  missions.  In  that  way, 
we can anticipate conflict, instead of waiting for it to 
come our way.
We see MINUSMA as a model for future missions. 
However, we need not only better intelligence, but also 
task-oriented  training  for  United  Nations  personnel, 
high-grade  equipment  and  a  clear  mandate.  This  year 
the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  is  co-organizing  the 
United Nations Peacekeeping Conference in Vancouver. 
There,  we  will  press  for  rotation  schedules  to  ensure 
timely  deployment  and  rotation  of  both  personnel 
and  materiel.  That  will  make  countries  more  willing 
to  participate  and  extend  the  potential  lifespan  of 
a mission.
Counter-terrorism  is  another  issue  on  which  the 
United  Nations  is  rightly  focusing  more  and  more. 
After  all,  the  United  Nations  is  the  prime  forum  for 
global  norm-setting  and 
international  cooperation 
in  the  field.  When  it  comes  to  preventing  terrorism, 
cooperation is key. A good example of such cooperation 
is the Global Counter-Terrorism Forum (GCTF), which 
17-29395
15/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
the  Netherlands  co-chairs  together  with  Morocco. 
There, 29 countries work together  to achieve a single 
goal: to keep our citizens safe. It is producing concrete 
results.  For  instance,  at  least  60  countries  and  the 
United Nations now contribute foreign terrorist profiles 
to  INTERPOL.  INTERPOL  already  has  over  16,000 
profiles. When the GCTF was set up, it had fewer than 
1,000. That work is not high profile — most of it goes 
on behind the scenes — but it saves many lives.
The  prevention  of  violence  and  conflict  ties  in 
with  our  third  priority  —  sustainability  —  and  with 
it, the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals.  The  SDGs  precede  everything  I  have  just 
discussed.  They  are  the  ultimate  prevention  agenda. 
They address the drivers and root causes of instability 
and  conflict.  Investing  in  human  dignity,  eradicating 
poverty,  fostering  climate  resilience  and  promoting 
economic and social progress will reduce the incidence 
of conflict, instability and despair — development and 
lasting peace, all in one package.
The  Netherlands  and 
its  Kingdom  partners 
Curaçao, Aruba and Sint Maarten are working together 
to  implement  the  SDGs.  We  believe  that  the  key  to 
success  in  attaining  the  Goals  is  our  willingness  to 
form  partnerships  at  the  national  and  international 
levels  with  businesses,  civil  society  organizations, 
knowledge  institutions,  local  authorities  and  youth 
organizations. Working together across sectors is part 
of our country’s tradition.
Our  most  important  area  of  expertise  is  water 
management.  Much  of  the  Netherlands  lies  below  sea 
level,  so  we  have  centuries  of  experience  in  water 
technology,  urban  delta  management  and  maritime 
technology, expertise that we are keen to share with the 
rest of the world. Working together on water issues is 
more crucial than ever before. Nearly five years have 
elapsed since thousands of people here in New York had 
to flee their homes when the streets flooded in the wake 
of Hurricane Sandy. The destruction caused by Harvey 
in Texas and the floods in Asia show that water issues 
have only become more urgent in the last five years.
The  impact  of  climate  change  on  the  water  cycle 
is  brought  home  to  us  every  day,  all  over  the  world, 
sometimes violently. The people of Sint Maarten, in the 
Caribbean part of the Kingdom, are struggling to cope 
with the devastation caused by Hurricane Irma.
The United Nations now predicts that 200 million 
people  will  have  become  displaced  by  2050  because 
of climate change. Water therefore plays a key role in 
achieving  almost  all  of  the  SDGs.  We  learn  most  by 
working  with  others  and  by  sharing  knowledge.  We 
deploy our expertise all over the world — for example, in 
projects in Viet Nam, Peru, Myanmar and Bangladesh. 
That  is  one  of  the  reasons  that  I  am  a  member  of  the 
High-level Panel on Water.
This  Hall,  this  building  and  all  members  of  the 
Assembly  represent  one  of  the  greatest  achievements 
of  humankind:  all  the  nations  working  together  in 
partnership  to  foster  peace,  justice  and  development 
in  the  world.  This  is  a  unique  Organization,  which 
entails a heavy responsibility. In such turbulent times, 
the United Nations needs to prove its worth more than 
ever.  Adlai  Stevenson,  an  American  politician  who 
experienced  two  world  wars  and  died  when  the  Cold 
War was at its height, once said,
“The United Nations is like a spade; it is not self-
operating.  It  is  what  we  make  of  it,  for  purposes 
that  we  can  find  in  common  with  our  neighbours 
in the world.”
I could not agree more. We face great problems in 
the  present  age.  Conflict  and  natural  disasters  affect 
the  lives  of  many  and  cause  widespread  concern.  In 
this  unstable  world,  the  United  Nations  represents 
stability and a chance to shape the world for the good. 
We need to make progress with the reforms proposed 
by  Secretary-General  Guterres.  Let  us  consider  what 
we have achieved in recent decades. As they say, past 
results  are  no  guarantee  of  future  performance,  but 
they do represent a promise for the future. Let us do all 
we can to make good on that promise, because together 
we can make the United Nations a success. In the year 
ahead,  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  will  commit 
itself fully to that endeavour.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mark  Rutte,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Shinzo Abe, Prime Minister of 
Japan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Japan.
16/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of 
Japan, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Abe (Japan) (spoke in Japanese; English text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  had  intended  to  begin 
today  by  speaking  of  the  sincerity  with  which  Japan 
is  implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
and I hoped to introduce the innovative ways by which 
we have been fostering public awareness of those Goals 
within  Japan.  I  wanted  to  explain  why  the  Women 
Entrepreneurs  Finance  Initiative  is  important  to  me 
personally and to the Government of Japan. I have been 
saying we will make universal health coverage part of 
the Japan brand, and in December we will hold a major 
conference in Tokyo with that theme.
The list of points I would have liked to raise here 
is long indeed — our contributions towards the rule of 
law,  our  determination  to  be  steadfast  in  undertaking 
the Paris Agreement and our policy of addressing global 
infrastructure  demand  through  quality  investments. 
Moreover,  what  Japan  wants  to  safeguard  in  every 
respect is the free, liberal, open international order and 
multilateral frameworks.
The world certainly holds high expectations towards 
the United Nations as the flag-bearer upholding those 
values. That is exactly why the Security Council should 
be reformed without delay, in response to the demands 
of the times. Japan will strive, together with its friends, 
to  achieve  such  reforms.  I  had  intended  to  state  that 
Japan’s abiding determination is to play an active role 
for world peace as a permanent member of the Security 
Council.  However,  I  have  no  choice  but  to  focus  my 
remarks on a single issue, that of North Korea.
North Korea conducted a nuclear test on 3 September. 
Whether or not it was a hydrogen bomb test, its scale far 
exceeded that of previous tests. Before and after that, on 
29 August and again on 15 September — before the ink 
was even dry on Security Council resolution 2375 (2017), 
adopted to impose sanctions on North Korea — North 
Korea  launched  missiles.  They  were  launched  to  fly 
over Japan and make a display of their cruising range. 
The  gravity  of  that  threat  is  unprecedented,  and  it 
is  indisputably  a  matter  of  urgency.  North  Korea  is 
attempting to dismiss with a smirk the efforts towards 
disarmament we have assiduously undertaken over the 
years.  The  non-proliferation  regime  is  about  to  suffer 
a serious blow from its most confident disrupter ever.
Qualitatively, that recent crisis is of an altogether 
different  dimension  than  those  we  have  eluded  every 
time  that  some  dictator  has  attempted  to  acquire 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  North  Korea’s  nuclear 
weapons  either  already  are,  or  are  on  the  verge  of 
becoming,  hydrogen  bombs.  Their  means  of  delivery 
will sooner or later be intercontinental ballistic missile. 
Over more than 20 years since the end of the Cold War, 
where  and  when  else,  and  to  what  dictators,  have  we 
allowed such self-indulgence? As it turns out, it is only 
towards North Korea that it has been allowed. That is 
the reality we find before us, and it was absolutely not a 
lack of dialogue that gave rise to the situation.
Dialogue dissuaded North Korea from pursuing its 
nuclear  ambitions.  Dialogue  has  afforded  many  of  us 
the relief that the world had been saved from a crisis. 
Believing  thus,  many  of  us  were  relieved  —  not  just 
once, but twice. The first time was in the early 1990s. At 
the time, the threat that North Korea imposed amounted 
to  little  more  than  openly  displaying  its  withdrawal 
from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) 
and other inspection regimes. However, tensions were 
felt by those of us that surmised the intent of that.
After  many  twists  and  turns,  in  October  1994 
what is known as the Agreed Framework was realized 
between the United States and North Korea. Under that 
framework, North Korea would be made to abandon its 
nuclear plans. In exchange, we would provide incentives 
to North Korea. To that end, Japan, the United States, 
and the Republic of Korea formed the Korean Peninsula 
Energy  Development  Organization  (KEDO)  in  March 
the following year.
Taking  KEDO  as  the  implementing  agent,  we 
pledged to build and hand over two light-water reactors 
to North Korea and to provide 500,000 tons of heavy 
fuel  oil  annually  as  a  stopgap  measure  for  its  energy 
demand. Those steps were all carried out accordingly. 
However,  as  time  went  by,  it  came  to  be  known  that 
North  Korea  had  been  continuing  steadily  with  its 
uranium enrichment.
From the start, North Korea had never intended to 
abandon its nuclear ambitions. That had become readily 
apparent  to  all.  After  2002,  seven  years  after  it  was 
founded, KEDO suspended its operations. During that 
period, it can be said that North Korea defrauded the 
United  States,  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  Japan  with 
17-29395
17/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
regard  to  assistance.  Countries  that  recognized  value 
in  the  KEDO  framwork  of  providing  incentives  to 
change  North  Korea’s  actions  gradually  came  to  join 
KEDO: the European Union, New Zealand, Australia, 
Canada, Indonesia, Chile, Argentina, Poland, the Czech 
Republic  and  Uzbekistan.  North  Korea  betrayed  the 
good faith of all those KEDO members. As one of the 
organization’s  founding  members,  Japan  had  pledged 
to give a non-interest loan to KEDO and had fulfilled 
roughly  40  per  cent  of  that  pledge  —  that  is,  about 
$400 million of a $1 billion pledge.
The  second  crisis  occurred 
in  2002,  when 
KEDO  suspended  its  operations  and  North  Korea, 
saying  it  would  end  the  freeze  on  its  nuclear-related 
facilities, expelled IAEA inspectors. The concern was 
again  that  North  Korea  was  continuing  its  uranium 
enrichment — and again we chose the path of defusing 
the situation through dialogue.
North  Korea,  China,  and  Russia  joined  the  three 
founding  members  of  KEDO  —  Japan,  the  United 
States  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  —  to  launch  the 
Six-Party  Talks  in  August  2003.  Subsequently,  after 
two  years  of  twists  and  turns  through  the  summer  of 
2005  into  autumn,  the  six  parties  finally  reached  an 
agreement resulting in the release of a joint statement. 
North  Korea  committed  to  abandoning  all  nuclear 
weapons  and  existing  nuclear  programmes  and  to 
returning  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons and to IAEA safeguards. Moreover, 
two  years  later,  in  February  2007,  an  agreement  was 
concluded regarding what each of the six parties should 
do towards implementing the joint statement. A group 
of  IAEA  inspectors  that  had  entered  North  Korea 
verified  the  shutdown  of  the  nuclear-related  facilities 
in Yongbyon, and in return North Korea received heavy 
fuel oil.
The  series  of  events  made  people  think  that,  this 
time,  tenaciously  continuing  dialogue  had  finally 
caused  North  Korea  to  change  its  actions.  But  what 
actually  happened?  In  February  2005,  while  the  Six-
Party  Talks  were  under  way,  North  Korea  declared 
unilaterally that it was already in possession of nuclear 
weapons. Moreover, in October 2006, it openly carried 
out its first nuclear test. Its second nuclear test was in 
2009. Finally, that same year, North Korea announced 
its  withdrawal  from  the  Six-Party  Talks,  stating  it 
would  never  again  take  part  in  such  talks.  It  was 
around that time that it was firing ballistic missiles on 
a repeated basis.
Over the course of more than a decade, beginning 
in  1994,  the  international  community  continued  its 
efforts  for  dialogue  with  North  Korea  with  great 
perseverance,  first  through  the  Agreed  Framework 
and  later  through  the  Six-Party  Talks.  However,  what 
we  had  to  learn  is  that  during  the  time  that  dialogue 
continued,  North  Korea  had  no  intention  whatsoever 
of abandoning its nuclear or missile development. For 
North  Korea,  dialogue  was  instead  the  best  means  of 
deceiving us and buying time. More than anything else, 
the  following  fact  demonstrates  that.  In  1994,  North 
Korea  had  no  nuclear  weapons,  and  even  its  ballistic 
missile technology was far from mature. Yet it is now 
working to attain hydrogen bombs and intercontinental 
ballistic missiles. Again and again, attempts to resolve 
issues through dialogue have all come to nought.
With what hope of success are we repeating the very 
same failure a third time? We must make North Korea 
abandon all nuclear and ballistic missile programmess 
in a complete, verifiable and irreversible manner. What 
is needed to do that is not dialogue, but pressure.
On 15 November, 40 years will have passed since 
a 13 year old girl named Megumi Yokota was abducted 
by  North  Korea.  Megumi  and  many  other  abducted 
Japanese  remain  in  North  Korea  even  to  this  day.  I 
will  continue  all  possible  efforts  so  they  can  set  foot 
on Japan’s soil as soon as possible. I will continue until 
the day when they will finally be in the arms of their 
parents and their family members. Japan will face up 
to North Korea’s nuclear and missile threat through the 
Japan-United  States  alliance  and  through  Japan,  the 
United States and the Republic of Korea acting in unity. 
We consistently support the stance of the United States 
that all options are on the table.
Also, 
I 
appreciate 
the  Security  Council’s 
unanimous  adoption,  on  11  September,  of  resolution 
2375  (2017),  which  imposes  strict  sanctions  against 
North  Korea.  That  clarified  our  intention  to  further 
intensify pressure on North Korea in order to force it 
to undertake a fundamental change in its path forward. 
But  I  must  make  an  appeal  to  the  General  Assembly. 
North Korea has already demonstrated its disregard of 
the resolution by launching yet another missile.
The resolution is nothing more than the beginning. 
We must prevent the goods, funds, people,  and technology 
necessary  for  nuclear  and  missile  development  from 
heading  to  North  Korea.  We  must  make  North  Korea 
comply  fully  with  the  repeated  resolutions.  We  must 
18/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
ensure  the  strict  and  full  implementation  of  the 
series  of  Security  Council  resolutions  by  all  United 
Nations States Members. What is necessary is action. 
Whether or not we can put an end to the provocations 
by North Korea is dependent upon the solidarity of the 
international community. There is not much time left.
North  Korea  is  in  a  truly  fortunate  location, 
adjoining the growth region of Asia and the Pacific. It 
has an industrious labour force as well as underground 
resources. If it were to make use of those, there could 
be  a  path  for  North  Korea  to  dramatically  grow  its 
economy  and  improve  public  welfare.  That  is  where 
North Korea’s bright future lies. By failing to resolve 
the  abduction,  nuclear  weapon  and  missile  issues 
and  by  becoming  a  threat  to  all  humankind,  there  is 
absolutely no future that North Korea can open up for 
itself.  In  order  to  change  North  Korea’s  policies,  we 
must strengthen our unity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  Japan  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Shinzo  Abe,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. António Luís Santos da Costa, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Portugal
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Portugal.
Mr. António Luís Santos da Costa, Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Portugal,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  António  Luís  Santos  da  Costa, 
Prime Minister of the Republic ofPortugal, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Da  Costa  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English text provided by the delegation): Let me start 
by expressing Portugal’s condolences to and solidarity 
with  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Mexico  for 
yesterday’s violent tragedy.
I  wish  to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on 
your  election.  I  welcome  the  priorities  that  you  have 
established. Portugal fully supports an agenda centred 
around  people  and  the  right  that  we  all  have  to  live 
a  dignified  life  in  peace  on  a  sustainable  planet.  I 
also  wish  to  express  a  word  of  appreciation  to  your 
predecessor, whose dedication and successes we most 
readily acknowledge.
I  feel  deeply  moved  to  address  the  peoples’ 
Assembly today in the presence of the first Portuguese 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations.  Before  the 
Assembly,  I  solemnly  pledge  Portugal’s  commitment 
to the United Nations and multilateralism, founded on 
the primacy of international law and the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
The  priorities  of  the  Secretary-General  are  the 
same  as  ours:  for  a  United  Nations  that  is  stronger, 
offers  greater  solidarity  and  is  capable  of  preventing 
conflicts,  alleviating  human  suffering  and  promoting 
peace  and  prosperity  —  a  more  transparent  United 
Nations  that  is  more  effective  and  more  adaptable  to 
a constantly changing world. We welcome and support 
the  dynamism  that  he  has  shown  right  from  the  start 
of his mandate in reforming the United Nations system 
so that it may better fulfil its noble purpose. Only the 
United Nations holds a universal vocation to respond, 
in  concert  with  Member  States,  to  the  increasingly 
complex challenges of our time.
Reforming  the  peace  and  security  architecture 
is  an  absolute  priority.  Consolidating  a  culture  of 
conflict  prevention  requires  action  across  the  board 
and  an  integrated  vision  of  the  three  pillars  of  the 
United  Nations  system  —  peace,  human  rights 
and  sustainable  development  —  as  well  as  closer 
institutional cooperation among the principal organs of 
the Charter, particularly the Security Council and the 
General Assembly.
Achieving  sustainable  peace  will  require  greater 
synergies in the Organization’s structures and missions 
on the ground. The ongoing efforts should also give fresh 
impetus  to  reform  of  the  Security  Council  to  ensure 
better  representation  of  today’s  world.  The  African 
continent cannot be denied a permanent presence, while 
Brazil and India are also two inescapable examples of 
necessart representation.
On  the  other  hand,  the  complexity  of  the  global 
problems  we  face  requires  us  to  foster  partnerships, 
involving  not  only  States  but  also  civil  societies, 
international  financial  institutions  and  public  and 
private entities. In that connection, I recall resolution 
71/324,  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries, 
adopted  a  few  days  ago,  which  specifically  aims  to 
17-29395
19/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
strengthen  the  complementarities between  the  two 
organizations.
pays  particular  attention  to  partnerships  between  the 
two continents.
I would also like to underscore the importance of the 
Portuguese language, which is today an instrument of 
communication with a global dimension. By the middle 
of this century, there will be almost 400 million speakers 
of  the  Portuguese  language.  That  is  what  justified  its 
adoption as an official language in several international 
organizations. The acceptance of Portuguese as one of 
the official languages of the United Nations remains a 
common stance of the member States of the Community 
of Portuguese-speaking Countries.
The  Secretary-General  has  chosen  diplomacy  for 
peace as one of the main flags of his mandate. This idea 
must guide us as an international community as we react 
to the conflicts and crises that regrettably occur today 
in various parts of the world. The unity and firmness 
of  the  international  community,  embodied  in  the 
United Nations, in defence of law and in the promotion 
of  security  and  stability  is  what  enables  us  to  move 
towards a fairer international order and to find the best 
solutions  to  the  serious  crises  we  face  today  —  from 
North Korean threats to the situation in Syria, from the 
instability  in  Libya  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
and  so  many  other  sources  of  confrontation,  security 
risks or humanitarian tragedy.
Terrorism  is  a  global  threat  that  challenges  all  of 
us.  Portugal  strongly  and  unequivocally  condemns 
all  acts  of  terrorism  and  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  preventing  and  fighting  radicalization,  violent 
extremism  and  recruitment.  It  actively  participates 
in  the  struggle  against  terrorism,  notably  within  the 
framework of the Global Coalition against Da’esh. We 
welcome the military successes achieved in Iraq over 
the past year.
We  all  know  that  promoting  peace  and  security 
goes  hand  in  hand  with  promoting  development.  The 
two dimensions complement and strengthen each other. 
For that reason, diplomatic mediation efforts and peace 
operations in conflict zones also require humanitarian 
support,  development  cooperation  and  institutional 
capacity-building for affected populations and States.
One of the clearest priorities of Portuguese foreign 
policy is participation in peacekeeping operations and 
institution-building within the framework of the United 
Nations.  As  a  European  and  Atlantic  country  with 
deep  historical  and  cultural  links  to  Africa,  Portugal 
The first Summit between Europe and Africa took 
place in 2000, under the Portuguese presidency of the 
European  Union.  The  fifth  European  Union-African 
Union  Summit,  to  be  held  in  Abidjan  in  November, 
will  be  an  excellent  opportunity  to  better  define  the 
priorities  of  the  strategic  partnership  between  the 
European Union and the African continent. The chosen 
theme  —  Youth  —  allows  a  much-needed  integrated 
approach  that  addresses  issues  of  education  and 
employment,  demographic  dynamics  and  economic 
growth, gender equality and civic participation.
The African continent has made important progress 
in  recent  years.  We  welcome  the  strengthening  of 
cooperation between the United Nations and the African 
Union. There are many signs of hope, both politically 
and  economically.  The  successful  implementation  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development will be 
another important step in that sense.
the  framework  of 
However, several disturbing issues still need to be 
overcome, and Portugal strives to do its part. First, we 
participate  in  various  peacekeeping  and  stabilization 
operations  within 
the  United 
Nations and the European Union. In that way, we have 
reinforced  our  presence,  without  ever  restricting  the 
use  of  our  troops,  in  the  multilateral  missions  in  the 
Sahel  and  Central  Africa  region,  namely,  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Missions in Mali and in the Central African Republic. 
Secondly,  Portugal  cooperates  with  several  African 
partners in promoting maritime security, particularly in 
the Gulf of Guinea, to combat piracy and trafficking in 
people, drugs and weapons and to protect international 
trade  from  a  strategic  point  of  view  for  both  Africa 
and Europe.
Peace  and  sustainable  development  are  built  on 
respect  for  the  rights  and  dignity  of  human  beings. 
Portugal  defends  human  rights  diplomacy.  For  us, 
civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights are 
inseparable and interdependent. They apply universally 
and  do  not  depend  on  place,  history  or  the  religious 
or  civilizational  matrix  of  a  society.  Upholding  those 
rights is a task for all of us, one which requires dialogue 
and concerted action. That is the only way human rights 
will  be  made  universal.  Our  mandate  in  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  which  ends  this  year,  was  guided  by 
20/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
those principles, and they will continue to guide us in 
the future.
In 2017, we celebrate 150 years since the abolition 
of the death penalty in Portugal. We have been pioneers 
in that cause and will continue to stand for the universal 
abolition of capital punishment.
The  situation  of  migrants  and  refugees  remains 
on  the  agenda.  We  have  a  moral  obligation  to  protect 
and  promote  the  rights  of  those  who,  like  so  many 
others before them, are forced to leave their homes and 
families in search of security and a better future. That 
is  the  principle  that  should  serve  as  the  basis  for  the 
global compact that last year we pledged to prepare and 
approve.
In that context, I underline the work of the Global 
Platform for Syrian Students, an initiative of the former 
President  of  Portugal,  Jorge  Sampaio.  The  Platform 
guarantees  access  to  higher  education  for  young 
Syrians who, because of the conflict in their country, 
have been deprived of that universal right. I invite all 
countries that have not yet done so to join the Platform 
and support the Rapid Response Mechanism for Higher 
Education in Emergencies. The war cannot lead to the 
loss  of  yet  another  generation  of  Syrian  youth,  who 
have the right to education.
For peace and development to be truly sustainable, 
we must show respect for our common home and future 
generations.  To  protect  and  preserve  the  planet  is  to 
nurture peace and prevent new conflicts that are caused 
by  competition  in  accessing  diminishing  resources. 
In  that  regard,  the  Paris  Agreement  is  a  milestone  in 
reducing the impacts of climate change. We cannot do 
without  the  universal  instrument  if  we  are  to  achieve 
the objectives of the environmental pillar of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Portugal  will  comply  with  the  European  Union’s 
voluntary  commitment  to  reducing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions by 40 per cent by 2030, as compared to 1990 
levels, and will contribute to the Green Climate Fund, 
which is in place to help developing countries adapt to 
climate change.
The 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development 
Goals are the most powerful statement of our multilateral 
commitment to the rights of people, the quality of life 
of  populations  and  the  future  of  our  planet.  Portugal 
stands  for  those  Goals,  which  guide  us  both  in  our 
domestic  policy  and  in  our  foreign  and  cooperation 
efforts. All 17 Goals are very important to us. However, 
because of our history and the international action on 
the preservation and enhancement of marine resources, 
we believe that Goal 14, on oceans, is the one to which 
our participation can bring greater added value, within 
the framework of the United Nations.
Oceans — source of life, knowledge and so many 
resources  and  exchanges  —  make  up  71  per  cent  of 
the surface of our planet and are a top priority in any 
strategy  for  sustainable  development.  The  need  for 
action  is  pressing  and  wide-ranging,  as  was  evident 
a week ago in Lisbon in another oceans meeting, this 
year  dedicated  to  the  theme  “The  Ocean  and  Human 
Health”.  It  was  promoted  by  Portugal,  and  dozens  of 
countries participated.
In  2017,  the  first  United  Nations  conference 
dedicated to conservation and sustainable exploitation 
of the oceans took place. It was a privilege for Portugal to 
participate in the preparatory process for the conference 
as co-facilitator, along with Singapore, of the political 
document that resulted from it: “Our ocean, our future: 
call for action”. I reiterate my country’s willingness to 
host the follow-up conference in 2020.
In  our  view,  the  sustainability  of  oceans  requires 
a  strengthening  of  their  governance.  For  that  reason, 
we believe that the General Assembly should formally 
decide  on  the  beginning  of  negotiations,  starting  in 
2018,  of  a  new  legally  binding  instrument  for  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity 
in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction.
However  many  the  challenges  we  face  today  and 
however serious the risks and threats that afflict us, we 
are certain to make progress when we have clear goals 
and know how to establish partnerships to reach them. 
Multilateralism is the only framework for the defence 
of the common good of humankind and the collective 
promotion  of  peace,  security  and  development.  In  no 
way  does  multilateralism  diminish  the  sovereignty 
of  nations  or  the  capacity  for  decisions  of  peoples 
and  institutions.  The  fraternal  cooperation  promoted 
by  multilateralism  contributes  to  our  strengths  with 
the  strengths  of  those  who  follow  the  same  path 
and direction.
We know the way and direction to take. Our way 
is  that  of  the  United  Nations  and  our  direction  is  the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  Diplomacy  for  peace, 
diplomacy  for  human  rights,  the  climate  agenda,  the 
2030 Agenda — my country is part of and contributes 
17-29395
21/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
to  all  of  them  for  the  sake  of  humanity,  which  is  our 
common condition.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Portugal for the statement he has just made.
Mr. António Luís Santos da Costa, Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Portugal,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mrs. Theresa May, Prime Minister 
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Mrs.  Theresa  May,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
Her Excellency Mrs. Theresa May, Prime Minister of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
and inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Mrs.  May  (United  Kingdom):  I  would  like  to 
begin  by  expressing  my  sincere  condolences  to  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Mexico  following  the 
devastating  earthquake.  I  also  want  to  reiterate  my 
sympathies to those affected by the recent hurricanes 
in  the  Caribbean.  Our  thoughts  are  with  them  all  at 
this time.
  As  we  meet  at  the  General  Assembly,  we  face 
challenges that go right to the heart of who we are as 
nations  —  challenges  that  test  our  values,  our  vision 
and our resolve to defend the rules and standards that 
underpin  the  security  and  prosperity  of  our  fellow 
citizens. As I argued in my speech here last year (see 
A/71/PV.8), many of those challenges do not recognize 
or respect geographical boundaries.
I think, of course, of the terrorism that has struck 
so  many  of  our  countries  —  including  my  own,  five 
times  this  year  —and,  fuelling  that  terrorist  threat, 
of  the  increasing  numbers  being  drawn  to  extremist 
ideologies,  not  only  in  places  riven  by  conflict  and 
instability but many online in their homes, thousands 
of miles away from those conflicts. I think of climate 
change, which is depleting and degrading the planet we 
leave to our children. And I think of the vast challenges 
that come from the mass displacement of people. Many 
are  refugees  fleeing  conflict  and  persecution.  Others 
are  economic  migrants  prepared  to  risk  everything 
on perilous sea crossings in the desperate search for a 
better life for themselves and their children.
Through that migration we also see the challenges 
of economic inequality, between countries and within 
them. That inequality, together with weaknesses in the 
global trading system, threatens to undermine support 
for the forces of liberalism and free trade that have done 
so much to propel global growth, and it is pushing some 
countries towards protectionism in the belief that that 
best defends the interests of their own people.
As  the  global  system  struggles  to  adapt,  we  are 
confronted  by  States  deliberately  flouting,  for  their 
own gain, the rules and standards that have secured our 
collective prosperity and security — the unforgivable 
use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime against 
its  own  people  and,  perhaps  foremost  in  our  minds 
today, the outrageous proliferation of nuclear weapons 
by North Korea and a threat to use them.
I believe that the only way for us to respond to that 
vast array of challenges is to come together and defend 
the international order that we have worked so hard to 
create and the values by which we stand. For it is the 
fundamental  values  that  we  share,  values  of  fairness, 
justice and human rights, that have created the common 
cause  among  nations  to  act  together  in  our  shared 
interests  and  form  the  multilateral  system.  It  is  that 
rules-based system that we have developed — including 
the  institutions,  the  international  frameworks  of  free 
and  fair  trade,  agreements  such  as  the  Paris  Climate 
Agreement,  and  laws  and  conventions  like  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  —  that 
enables  a  global  cooperation  through  which  we  can 
protect those values.
Indeed, the defining purposes set out in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  are  to  maintain  international 
peace  and  security,  to  develop  friendly  relations 
among nations, to achieve international cooperation in 
solving  the  problems  of  an  economic,  social,  cultural 
and  humanitarian  character,  and  to  be  a  centre  for 
harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of 
those common ends. I do not see those as vaunted ideals 
to be held to their own sake. Those values and the rules 
they imbue are central to our national interest, to our 
security and prosperity. The international system, with 
the United Nations at its heart, is the amplifying force 
that enables countries to cooperate and live up to those 
22/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
standards in word, spirit and deed, to our collective and 
individual benefit.
If  the  system  we  have  created  is  found  no  longer 
to  be  capable  of  meeting  the  challenges  of  our  time, 
then there will be a crisis of faith in multilateralism and 
global cooperation that will damage the interests of all 
our peoples. Those of us who hold true to our shared 
values, who hold true to that desire to defend the rules 
and high standards that have shaped and protected the 
world we live in, need to strive harder than ever to show 
that  institutions  like  the  United  Nations  can  work  for 
the countries that formed them and for the people who 
we represent.
That means reforming the United Nations and the 
wider international system so it can prove its worth in 
helping  us  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  It  also  means  ensuring  that  those  who  flout 
the rules and spirit of our international system are held 
to  account,  that  nations  honour  their  responsibilities 
and play their part in upholding and renewing a rules-
based  international  order  that  can  deliver  prosperity 
and security for us all.
First,  we  must 
that  our  multilateral 
institutions  can  deliver  the  aspirations  on  which  they 
were  founded.  Think  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  looking  after  those  who 
have been driven out of their homes; the Organization 
for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  striving  for 
a world free of chemical weapons; the United Nations 
Children’s Fund helping children in danger. Those are 
all vital missions where the United Nations surely has 
a unique role to play. That is why the United Kingdom 
has over 70 years been such a pioneering supporter of 
those organizations, and more.
insure 
But  we  should  also  acknowledge  that  throughout 
its  history  the  United  Nations  has  suffered  from  a 
seemingly  unbridgeable  gap  between  the  nobility 
of  its  purposes  and  the  effectiveness  of  its  delivery. 
When  the  need  for  multilateral  action  has  never  been 
greater, the shortcomings of the United Nations and its 
institutions risk undermining the confidence of States 
as  Members  and  donors.  Even  more  important,  they 
risk the confidence and faith of those who rely on the 
Blue Helmets, who rely on that sign I stand in front of 
today to come to their aid in the darkest of hours.
We  must  begin  by  supporting  the  ambitious 
reform  agenda  that  Secretary-General  Guterres  is 
now  leading  to  create  a  more  agile,  transparent  and 
joined-up  Organization.  Much  of  the  work  will  be 
practical  and  unglamorous.  It  will  require  the  United 
Nations  to  deliver  better  cooperation  on  the  ground 
between agencies, remove competition for funding and 
improve  gender  equality.  But  it  will  also  require  real 
leadership to confront damaging issues that have beset 
the United Nations. I therefore welcome the Secretary-
General’s new circle of leadership on preventing sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse  in  United  Nations  operations, 
and I am pleased to be part of that initiative.
We,  the  nations  of  the  United  Nations,  need  to 
give  the  Secretary-General  our  backing  for  those 
reforms.  As  an  outward-looking,  global  Britain  and 
the  second-biggest  funder  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
United  Kingdom  will  remain  committed  to  spending 
0.7 per cent of gross national income on development 
and humanitarian support. We will use our military to 
support peacekeeping, and our diplomats will continue 
to work to tackle conflict and to support peacebuilding. 
In turn, the United Nations and its agencies must win 
our trust by proving to us and the people we represent 
that  they  can  deliver.  That  is  why  we  will  remain 
generous in our funding but will set aside 30 per cent 
to be paid only to those parts of the United Nations that 
achieve sufficient results.
But  this  is  about  more  than  technical  reforms, 
important  as  they  are.  It  is  also  about  reforms  that 
enable the United Nations to truly respond to the global 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  At  last  year’s 
General  Assembly  we  undertook  to  do  far  more  to 
resolve the challenges of refugee and migration flows. 
We  agreed  to  develop  global  compacts  to  address  the 
causes  and  the  consequences  of  the  mass  movements 
of people we see today. That was an important step to 
elevate significantly our global response and enable us 
collectively to tackle this challenge of our times.
In the year ahead, as well as agreeing the principles 
of those compacts, we must ensure they can be applied 
in  practice.  We  must  do  more  to  identify,  protect  and 
support refugees and those hosting them near conflicts. 
On  migration,  our  starting  point  must  be  that  it  can 
benefit  both  countries  and  migrants  themselves,  but 
only when it is safe, orderly, well managed and legal. 
If we do not manage that effectively, we will fail both 
our  own  citizens  and  those  taking  those  dangerous 
journeys, and we will push more people into the curse 
of modern slavery at the hands of the human traffickers 
and organized criminal groups that drive that inhuman 
industry.
17-29395
23/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
But  the  steps  we  are  agreeing  through  these 
compacts  alone  will  not  be  enough.  For  if  people 
cannot find jobs, opportunity and hope for themselves 
and  their  families  where  they  live,  they  will  continue 
to  look  elsewhere.  As  the  United  Nations  and  as 
Members, we must work harder to combine the efforts 
of our development programmes with the private sector 
and  the  international  financial  institutions  to  support 
the  creation  of  jobs  and  livelihoods  that  will  address 
not just the consequences but the causes of this great 
challenge of our time. The truth is that, despite our best 
efforts, we are not succeeding. We must do more.
The same is true with terrorism, where again, the 
challenges  we  face  today  are  vastly  different  from 
those of previous eras. When terrorists struck London 
and  Manchester  this  year  the  world  saw  our  cities 
come  together  in  defiance.  Our  Parliament  carries 
on.  Ariana  Grande  came  back  to  Manchester  and 
sang  again.  London  Bridge  is  bustling  with  people. 
Our  communities  came  together  at  the  Finsbury  Park 
mosque in North London, and Londoners got back on 
the Tube. The terrorists did not win, for we will never 
let anyone destroy our way of life.
But  defiance  alone  is  not  enough.  As  leaders,  we 
have all visited too many hospitals and seen too many 
innocent people murdered in our countries. In the past 
decade,  hundreds  of  thousands  have  been  killed  by 
terrorists across the world. That is a truly global tragedy 
that is increasingly touching the lives of us all. This year 
is the tenth anniversary of the death of the woman who 
introduced me to my husband and who was known well 
to  many  of  us  in  the  United  Nations.  Benazir  Bhutto 
was brutally murdered by people who actively rejected 
the values that all of us here in the United Nations stand 
for, in a country that has suffered more than most at the 
hands of terrorists. She was murdered for standing up 
for  democracy,  murdered  for  espousing  tolerance  and 
murdered for being a woman.
When  I  think  of  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
victims  of  terrorism  in  countries  across  the  world,  I 
think of their friends, their families, their communities, 
devastated  by  that  evil,  and  I  say,  enough  is  enough. 
Of course, we must continue to take the fight to these 
terrorist groups on the battlefield. The United Kingdom 
will  remain  at  the  forefront  of  that  effort,  while  also 
helping to build the capabilities of our alliances and our 
partners to better take on this challenge.
We must also step up our efforts as never before to 
tackle the terrorist use of the Internet, for as the threat 
from terrorists evolves, so must our cooperation. That 
is why today, for the first time in the United Nations, 
Governments and industry through the Global Internet 
Forum  to  Counter  Terrorism  will  be  coming  together 
to do just that. Tech companies have made significant 
progress  on  that  issue,  but  we  need  to  go  further  and 
faster  to  reduce  the  time  it  takes  to  remove  terrorist 
content online and to increase significantly their efforts 
to  stop  it  being  uploaded  in  the  first  place.  That  is  a 
major  step  in  reclaiming  the  Internet  from  those  who 
would use it to do us harm.
But ultimately it is not just the terrorists themselves 
who we need to defeat, it is the extremist ideologies that 
fuel them. It is the ideologies that preach hatred, sow 
division  and  undermine  our  common  humanity.  We 
must be far more robust in identifying those ideologies 
and  defeating  them  across  all  parts  of  our  societies. 
As  I  said  in  the  aftermath  of  the  attack  on  London 
Bridge this summer, we have to face the fact that this 
will require some difficult conversations. We all need 
to come together, to take on that extremism that lives 
among us and to nurture the common values that must 
ultimately win out. They are the values of the United 
Nations.
And  yet,  despite  our  best  efforts,  we  as  nations 
and  as  a  United  Nations  have  not  found  the  ways  or 
the  means  to  truly  take  on  that  threat.  That  is  why 
today, as I talk about United Nations reform, I ask the 
Secretary-General to make the fight against terrorists 
and  the  ideologies  that  drive  them  a  core  part  of  his 
agenda, at the heart of our development, peacebuilding 
and  conflict-prevention  work.  To  give  that  effort  the 
prominence  it  surely  requires,  I  am  calling  on  the 
Secretary-General to make that a theme of next year’s 
General Assembly and use it to harness the efforts of 
Governments,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  so 
that we can truly strike the generational blow against 
that vile evil in our world.
As  we  do  so,  we  must  clearly  strike  the  balance 
between  protecting  our  people  and  protecting  their 
freedoms.  We  must  always  guard  against  those  who 
would  use  the  fight  against  terrorism  as  a  cover  for 
oppression  and  the  violation  of  human  rights.  As  we 
look  at  the  situation  in  northern  Burma,  I  call  on  the 
Burmese  authorities  to  put  an  end  to  the  violence, 
allow  humanitarian  access  and  fully  implement  the 
24/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
recommendations  of  the  Advisory  Commission  on 
Rakhine State.
By  reforming  our  multinational  institutions,  we 
can  strengthen  their  ability  to  deliver  for  the  people 
we  serve,  protect  the  vulnerable  and  fight  injustice. 
We  can  enable  multilateralism  to  multiply  the  effect 
of our individual commitments through its convening 
power and spending power, through the economies of 
scale  it  can  bring,  the  standards  it  can  set,  the  moral 
leadership  it  can  harness  and  the  legitimacy  it  can 
confer. But multilateralism can only reflect the values 
that  individual  States  project  and  can  only  multiply 
the commitments that they are prepared to make. It is 
strong  nations  that  form  strong  institutions  and  that 
provide the basis of the international partnerships and 
cooperation that brings stability to our world.
It falls to us all to decide whether we will honour 
the responsibilities that we have to one another. I have 
talked about the role of the United Nations in stepping 
up  on  counter-terrorism.  But  that  is  an  area  that  we 
as  States  have  critical  responsibilities  that  the  United 
Nations cannot itself address alone, for it is inescapable 
that the terrorism, conflict and instability that we see 
across the world are in many cases driven by the actions 
of States acting through proxies.
When  countries  back  groups  like  Hizbullah  to 
increase  instability  and  conflict  across  the  Middle 
East, support so-called separatists in Ukraine to create 
instability  on  Europe’s  eastern  borders,  or  give  tacit 
support  to  criminal  groups  launching  cyberattacks 
against  our  countries  and  institutions,  they  call  into 
question  the  very  rules  and  the  international  system 
that protect us. That is why, both globally but also in 
our own continent of Europe, the United Kingdom will 
remain steadfast in our commitment and responsibility 
to ensure the security and stability of our friends and 
allies as we have done for generations.
Just as it the responsibility of nations not to seek 
to  advance  their  interests  through  terrorist  or  proxy 
groups,  so  it  is  also  the  responsibility  of  each  of 
us  to  act  together  in  the  face  of  the  most  egregious 
violations of our common rules and standards. Clearly, 
responsibility for the chaos and tragedy that we see in 
Syria  lies  firmly  at  the  door  of  Al-Assad.  He  and  his 
backers  have  continually  frustrated  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  to  act  as  the  broker  of  peace  through 
the Geneva process. As responsible States, we must not 
abandon  our  support  for  the  United  Nations  attempts 
to secure peace and stability in Syria. Indeed, we must 
continue  to  call  on  all  those  with  influence  on  the 
regime to bring them to the table.
But  in  recent  weeks,  the  United  Nations  has  also 
confirmed  what  we  all  knew,  namely,  that  the  Syrian 
regime has used chemical weapons on its own people. 
In  the  face  of  that  fact,  we  have  a  responsibility  to 
stand  up,  to  hold  the  Syrian  regime  to  account.  That 
responsibility sits with us all, but a particular, special 
responsibility  lies  on  the  shoulders  of  the  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council.  As  one  of  those 
five  members,  the  United  Kingdom  takes  our  special 
responsibility seriously.
I am proud that we have used the full weight of our 
diplomacy  to ensure that we have not had to  exercise 
our veto in a generation. We seek to foster international 
cooperation, not frustrate it. But others have not done 
so. One country in particular has used its veto as many 
times in the past five years as in the whole of the second 
half of the Cold War. In doing so they have prevented 
action  against  a  despicable  regime  that  has  murdered 
its  own  people  with  chemical  weapons.  As  a  result, 
in  Syria,  the  United  Nations  has  been  blocked.  That 
has  undermined  the  values  that  we  hold  dear  and  the 
international  rules-based  system  that  is  the  basis  of 
security and prosperity around the world.
Now  we  face  an  even  more  immediate,  global 
danger in the activities of Kim Jong Un and his regime 
in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Time 
after time, he has shown contempt for the international 
community  of  law-abiding  States,  contempt  for  his 
neighbours  and  contempt  for  the  institutions  and 
rules  that  have  preserved  peace  and  security.  On  that 
challenge,  the  United  Nations  in  recent  weeks  has 
shown  it  can  step  up  to  the  task,  with  last  Monday’s 
Security  Council  resolution  creating 
the  biggest 
sanctions package of the twenty-first century. We have 
seen regional and global Powers coming together and, 
as in the founding Charter, putting aside limited self-
interests  to  show  leadership  on  behalf  of  the  wider 
world.
But despite those efforts, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  continues  to  defy  and  provoke  the 
international  community  and  threaten  its  neighbours. 
Unless all Security Council members continue to live 
up to the special responsibilities that are placed upon us 
and, in seeking to resolve that crisis, to be prepared to 
17-29395
25/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
take on necessary measures to tackle that threat, we will 
not be able to bring stability to the Korean peninsula.
As the world looks on, I am calling for further steps 
and for nations with that special responsibility to work 
together and exert the pressure we know is necessary to 
force Kim Jong Un to change his ways. Let us not fail 
this time. Let our message to North Korea be clear: our 
determination to uphold those rules is stronger by far 
than their determination to undermine them.
Throughout  the  history  of  the  United  Nations, 
countries have shown time and time again that by being 
true  to  our  values,  rules  and  standards,  it  is  possible 
to come together and to deliver in ways that have the 
most  extraordinary  impact  on  the  lives  of  the  people 
we serve. I believe we can do so again. We must do so 
again, and we will do so again.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the 
statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Theresa  May,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, President 
of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  Republic  of 
Italy
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Council of Ministers of 
the Republic of Italy.
Mr.  Paolo  Gentiloni  Silveri,  President  of  the 
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Paolo  Gentiloni  Silveri,  President 
of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Italy, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Gentiloni  Silveri  (Italy)  (spoke  in  Italian; 
English text provided by the delegation): I cannot begin 
my statement without sparing a thought for a friendly 
country, Mexico, struck by a grave natural disaster. We 
express our solidarity with the families of the victims 
and our encouragement to the relief workers.
The  seventy-second  session  of 
the  General 
Assembly is taking place in a complex and constantly 
moving  global  context.  The  socioeconomic  effects  of 
globalization, which can create hardship and inequalities, 
also  compound  the  persistence  of  major  instability  in 
the  international  geopolitical  framework.  The  world 
seems more and more unpredictable, especially when it 
must address extraordinary challenges.
The  international  community  must  find  a  way 
to  overcome  those  obstacles  and  look  to  the  future 
with  confidence.  There  is  hope  to  be  found  in  the 
signs  of  optimism  that  accompany  the  recovery  of 
our  economies.  It  is  up  to  us  to  navigate  this  road  to 
development  with  responsibility  and  courage.  We 
must  do  so  first  through  better  governance  of  global 
processes  to  assure  robust  and  inclusive  economic 
growth aimed primarily at reducing inequalities. Italy 
is  convinced  that  building  democratic,  pluralistic  and 
inclusive societies that are open to diversity represents 
not  only  an  ethical  imperative  but  also  the  best 
guarantee of peace and stability. This is a fundamental 
part  of  a  broader  commitment  to  promoting  and 
guaranteeing  effective  protection  of  the  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms of each individual.
The shared journey of hopes and gains undertaken 
by the European Union — which for Italy represents the 
first natural dimension of multilateralism — teaches us 
that we must have the courage to react to the challenges 
we face daily. In the past two years the European Union 
has been forced, perhaps for the first time, to abandon 
its  “climate-controlled”  environment  —  perhaps  with 
difficulty  —  in  order  to  tackle  some  of  the  greatest 
challenges to have emerged since the post-war period. 
It has not been easy, nor has it been the beginning of the 
end, which many had feared, but rather an opportunity 
for a powerful collective reminder of the need to remain 
united within the European project.
Today I affirm with profound conviction that a new 
European  impetus  exists,  which  Italy  not  only  shares 
but actively promotes. There is a will to proceed as one 
to  bring  the  European  project  closer  to  the  needs  of 
citizens, the challenges of economic growth, security, 
and migration. It is a project that strengthens the greatly 
needed global role of the Union in the world, inspired 
by multilateralism, free exchange and respect for rule 
of law.
In  short,  this  story  concerns  us  all,  because  a 
European  Union  that  can  once  again  give  the  whole 
world  an  example  of  solidarity,  progress,  prosperity 
and  effectiveness  is  a  contribution  to  the  progress 
and  development  of  the  whole  world.  For  Italy, 
26/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
the  development  of  social,  economic  and  political 
inclusiveness,  extended  also  to  the  labour  market, 
as  well  as  fighting  poverty  and  marginalization, 
means  contributing  to  a  more  effective  management 
of  the  challenge  of  migration.  We  must  respond  with 
compassion,  intelligence  and  vision  to  the  permanent 
reality of the vast human movements of our time.
For  years,  Italy  has  been  engaged  in  operations 
to  rescue  and  receive  migrants.  We  have  saved  and 
continue  to  save  hundreds  of  thousands  of  persons 
who risked drowning in the Mediterranean, true to our 
ethical and moral imperatives and to the international 
obligations we have freely undersigned. We are proud 
of this, but to consolidate our action we need a general, 
global response to the migration phenomenon. It cannot 
rely  solely  upon  the  generosity  of  some  territories,  in 
the knowledge that there are nations in the world that 
are  struck  by  migratory  flows  on  an  even  larger  and 
more serious scale than Italy.
To  continue  to  affirm  and  embody  the  principle 
of  shared  and  proportionate  responsibility,  Italy  is 
participating  actively  in  the  negotiations  that  will 
lead to the adoption of global compacts in the United 
Nations framework. Our proposal to jointly address the 
migration  phenomenon  on  a  global  level  is  based  on 
three main pillars: investing in support of the countries 
of  origin  and  transit,  protecting  the  most  vulnerable 
refugees and migrants, and valuing the many positive 
aspects and opportunities created by migration.
Italy is already the promoter of a true partnership 
with  the  African  countries.  As  I  have  already  had 
occasion to express and repeat today with conviction, the 
future of Europe is in Africa. It is by investing in Africa 
that we can address the deep causes of migration, first 
and foremost economic and demographic inequalities.
We are working with the International Organization 
for  Migration  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees to provide assistance 
to  migrants  with  respect  for  their  human  rights, 
assure  the  protection  of  refugees  fleeing  from  wars 
and  persecution  and  offer  favourable  conditions  and 
incentives  for  their  voluntary  repatriation.  Reducing 
the power of human traffickers is the only way to create 
progress for legal migration, which is also to the benefit 
of  our  countries  and  does  not  jeopardize  the  lives  of 
migrants. To protect those who are weakest is to protect 
our  values.  Saving  the  lives  of  children  allows  us  to 
save our societies, our honour and our future.
For Italy, by virtue of our geography and history, 
our emphasis on responsible and solidary management 
of the movement of persons is coupled with an emphasis 
on  the  security,  stability,  sustainable  development 
and  growth  of  the  Mediterranean  and  of  the  African 
continent  as  a  whole.  It  is  all  included  in  the  fight 
against terrorism and violent extremism. We know that 
the ever-increasing apparent loss of territory for Da’esh 
in Iraq and Syria has demonstrated the effectiveness of 
our work but we also know that victory on the ground is 
not enough. The fanaticism and ideology of Da’esh and 
of Jihad continue to claim victims and sow terror in our 
cities and in half of the cities around the world.
Italy  is  an  active  partner  in  the  Global  Coalition 
against  Da’esh  and  is  engaged  in  various  activities, 
starting  with  the  presence  of  its  soldiers  in  Iraq 
and  the  second-largest  contingent  of  the  Coalition, 
after  the  American  contingent.  Nonetheless,  it  is 
because  we  are  engaged  with  our  military  forces  that 
we  recall  that  the  fight  against  terrorism  requires  a 
multidimensional  force.  I  would  mention  initiatives 
such  as  countering  the  use  of  the  Internet  and  social 
media by terrorists — which we will address here at the 
United Nations — and the financing of terrorist groups. 
I would also point to the investments that we must make 
to promote culture and inclusiveness in our regions and 
in the neighbourhoods of our cities.
We  have  devoted  great  energy  in  the  Security 
Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  as  the  Chair  of 
the  Group  of  Seven  (G-7)  to  upgrade  our  capacity  to 
respond  to  the  new  threats  posed  by  terrorist  groups, 
which are ever-evolving. Libya is the key to restoring 
to the central Mediterranean its historic role as a driver 
of civilization, and to countering the risks and threats. 
As we stated earlier today, its stabilization is a priority 
objective that must reject every unrealistic hypothesis 
of a military solution or division of the country.
Italy  is  a  leader  in  that  commitment,  and  we 
welcome the fact that the United Nations has returned 
to  action  as  a  leader  in  Libya  at  the  political  level 
and  at  the  level  of  providing  assistance  to  refugees 
and  migrants.  We  have  an  opportunity  to  restart  the 
political  process  and  prepare  for  upcoming  elections. 
We have that opportunity today. It is in our hands and 
in the hands of the United Nations.
Syria  continues  to  be  a  source  of  concern  and 
suffering.  Let  us  not  forget  that.  After  six  years  of 
unspeakable violence, millions of refugees and hundreds 
17-29395
27/29
A/72/PV.8 
20/09/2017
of thousands of deaths, we welcome the recent efforts 
to promote local truces in the de-escalation zones. Let 
us also remember that the only road to a lasting solution 
to the Syrian conflict is a realistic and credible political 
process.
There can be no stability, peace or reconstruction, 
or  lasting  victory  over  terrorism,  or  conditions  for 
the  voluntary  return  of  refugees  in  complete  security 
without  an  inclusive  political  transition  that  brings 
together the various components of Syrian society. That 
is  why  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  today  at  the  General 
Assembly  our  full  support  for  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations and of Special Envoy De Mistura, and, at the 
same  time,  urge  the  main  regional  and  international 
stakeholders  to  support  the  road  map  outlined  in 
Security  Council  resolution  2254  (2015).  Finally, 
ultimately, there could be no true peace without justice. 
That  means  ascertaining  who  was  responsible  for 
committing atrocity crimes over the years, which began 
with the use of chemical weapons.
Dialogue and reconciliation are also indispensable 
instruments for lasting peace on the African continent. 
Italy has intensified and systematized just actions for 
the Sahel region, in particular for the Niger, Chad and 
Mali,  which  are  working  with  immense  difficulty  to 
fight terrorist and criminal organizations and the illegal 
trafficking activities linked to them, starting with the 
heinous trafficking in persons. In that context, we are 
convinced  that  the  Group  of  Five  for  the  Sahel  (G-5) 
initiative  is  essential  and  we  welcomed  the  decision 
of the G-5 Sahel countries to launch, with the support 
of the African Union, a joint force. Italy continues to 
assure maximum support for the Horn of Africa — the 
key  to  stability  for  the  entire  region  and  to  resolving 
a complex crisis aggravated by climate change, which 
has led to a devastating drought.
Initiatives  in  Somalia  are  moving  in  the  right 
direction. Italy will continue to support them, given our 
ancient links to that country. 
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  mention  our  deep 
concern about the very serious situation in Venezuela. 
It is a situation that has turned a rich and prosperous 
country  into  a  land  of  crises  and  suffering.  Italy 
reiterates  its  call  for  an  immediate  and  good-faith 
dialogue,  which  cannot  disregard  the  four  conditions 
on the table, namely, authorization to send international 
assistance, a clearly established electoral calendar, the 
restoration of the Parliament’s powers and the release of 
all political prisoners.
 Finally, we look upon the situation on the Korean 
peninsula with great anguish and distress, in the face 
of  repeated  violations  of  pertinent  Security  Council 
resolutions.  It  is  fundamental  for  the  international 
community  to  remain  unified  and  determined  in  its 
response  and  it  is  in  that  spirit  that,  as  president  of 
the G-7, Italy promoted a firm group declaration. It is 
crucial  to  ensure  the  full  implementation  of  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions.  Every  now  and  then, 
someone  wonders  about  the  usefulness  of  the  United 
Nations  and  about  the  many  things  happening  in  the 
world,  but  the  resolutions  that  we  have  unanimously 
adopted in recent weeks as instruments to exert pressure 
on the dictator of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea are a positive result for the United Nations. They 
demonstrate  that  we  are  ready  to  cooperate  with  our 
partners to continue to put the much needed diplomatic 
and economic pressure on the regime.
With regard to the Iranian nuclear issue, we believe 
that the international community should ensure that the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action remains a positive 
factor in the global efforts to counter the proliferation 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  At  the  same  time, 
we  are  convinced  of  the  importance  of  the  full  and 
comprehensive  implementation  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2231 (2015).
Autocratic  regimes,  terrorism  and  international 
environmental crises pose a grave threat to the planet. 
But  we,  the  United  Nations,  cannot  and  will  not 
give  up  this  fight.  The  Secretary-General  has  made 
prevention  one  of  his  highest  priorities,  and  Italy 
supports him in that commitment. We need to prevent 
conflict  and  natural  disasters  and  the  humanitarian 
and migration crises that follow, which, in turn, cause 
further instability. Prevention means everything except 
building barriers. It means instead achieving inclusive 
and  sustainable  development  and  addressing  crises 
with multilateral efforts. We cannot face those threats 
alone. The response must be a joint response. The 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  outlines  with 
clear-sighted ambition a shared path forward. Together, 
we  have  written  the  prescription  —  now  we  must 
follow through.
Climate change calls for the same dedicated effort. 
Secretary-General Guterres pointed that out a few days 
ago  when  he  said  that,  if  we  do  not  address  climate 
28/29 
17-29395
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.8
change now, we will ruin many of our grandchildren’s 
opportunities  for  a  positive  and  dignified  life.  We 
are  facing  an  emergency,  the  social  consequences  of 
which  do  not  need  to  projected  onto  the  future.  They 
are already tragically apparent. We need only think of 
the more than 200 million displaced persons who, from 
2008 to 2015, were forced to leave their homes due to 
the devastating effects of climate phenomena.
The  crises  and  the  challenges  of  our  time  can  be 
overcome,  and  those  of  the  future  can  be  prevented. 
It  depends  on  us,  the  United  Nations.  We  need  a 
United  Nations  that  is  more  effective  in  enacting  the 
inspirational principles that continue to be valid after 
so many years. We count, too, on the leadership of the 
Secretary-General. We fully support his reform plans, 
including his commitment to empowering women and 
girls and the achievement of gender equality as a tool 
for bolstering the efficiency of the Organization.
That  revitalization  also  obviously  includes  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  to  render  it  more 
democratic,  effective  and  representative  of  the  entire 
membership of the United Nations — because, just as 
the  membership  has  evolved  and  expanded  since  its 
establishment,  the  same  must  occur  in  the  primary 
organ that is its centre of responsibility.
The  current  global  scenario  calls  upon  us  to 
respond  to  many  challenges  that  demonstrate  that 
history did not end a quarter of a century ago, as some 
had believed. We are called upon to constantly renew 
our endorsement of the values of peace, human rights, 
democracy and freedom. In other more difficult times 
of our history, we have seen those values retreat, but we 
know that even in the most difficult times, democracy 
can renew itself and grow and, in the end, can prevail.
The meeting rose at 3.25 p.m.
17-29395
29/29
