United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
18th plenary meeting
Friday, 22 September 2017, 6.05 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 6.05 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Wilfred Elrington, Attorney General and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize.
Mr. Elrington (Belize): On behalf of the Government 
and  the  people  of  Belize,  I  extend  our  heartfelt 
condolences  to  the  populations  of  our  sister  countries 
in the Caribbean for the destruction and loss of life and 
property caused by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Belize 
stands united with other friendly countries of the world 
to  assist  and  to  render  our  full  support  to  our  sister 
countries  and  friends  in  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).  I  also  extend  Belize’s  warmest  feelings 
of solidarity and sympathy to the people of Mexico, our 
immediate neighbours to the north, as they commence 
a  difficult  recovery  process  following  the  death  and 
destruction caused by the two recent earthquakes.
As  you  observed  in  your  opening  statement 
(see  A/72/PV.3),  Mr.  President,  you  have  assumed 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  a  most 
challenging 
time  for  multilateralism.  Be  assured 
nonetheless that my Government and people have every 
confidence in your leadership, and I pledge to you our 
full  and  active  support  as  you  embark  on  the  task  of 
addressing the agenda of the seventy-second session of 
the Assembly, focusing on people and striving for peace 
and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet.
With  regard  to  the  Belizean  experience,  Belize 
celebrated  its  thirty-sixth  year  of  independence  on 
21  September.  In  the  36  years  since  independence, 
we  have  matured  into  a  unified  nation,  embracing 
all  peoples  in  the  fabric  of  our  society  and  enjoying 
a  peaceful  existence.  We  have  worked  assiduously  to 
uplift every Belizean, especially those who have been 
victims of anachronistic prejudices, and we have done 
so with an eye to ensuring that successive generations 
can  benefit  from  the  fruits  of  our  labours  and  our 
natural resources. Our development has been modest in 
relative terms, but progressive and steady.
We  have  readily  embraced  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and launched our Growth and 
Sustainable Development Strategy for Belize 2016-2019, 
which incorporates the global Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). Our nationally determined contributions 
under  the  Paris  Agreement  further  complement  the 
SDGs.  We  are  already  seeing  the  dividends  of  that 
early  investment  in  policy  and  action.  Belize  has  met 
several  goals  on  road  safety,  marine  protection  and 
sustainable fisheries.
These early accomplishments are mere benchmarks. 
We  know  that  for  our  sustainable  development,  we 
must  go  above  and  beyond  such  accomplishments, 
so  my  Government  is  setting  even  more  ambitious 
targets.  At  the  Ocean  Conference,  we  announced  our 
commitment  to  further  strengthening  the  legislative 
and regulatory framework on fisheries, increasing our 
marine reserves from 3 per cent to 10 per cent of our 
territorial waters and implementing legislation to curb 
the use of plastics. Among our ambitious climate-action 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29728 (E)
*1729728*
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
contributions,  Belize  is  committed  to  zero-emissions 
growth in its forestry sector and aims to achieve 85 per 
cent renewables in electricity production by 2027.
In addition to our actions at the national level, we 
are  also  undertaking  regional  action  by  leveraging 
the strength of the Caribbean Community to optimize 
results  for  all  our  peoples  by  uniting  our  efforts 
aimed  at  fighting  disease  and  security  threats.  Belize 
proudly  hosted  the  launch  of  the  CARICOM  First 
Ladies  and  Spouses  of  Prime  Ministers  Network  in 
support of the Implementation of SDG 5 and the Every 
Caribbean  Woman,  Every  Caribbean  Child  initiative. 
Our  leaders  are  also  renewing  and  deepening  efforts 
to tackle non-communicable diseases through targeted 
approaches  aimed  at  promoting  healthy  lifestyles, 
starting with the youngest members of our communities.
For  our  region,  security  and  climate  change  are 
equally fundamental threats to our survival. The region 
has risen to meet these challenges by adopting its own 
counter-terrorism  strategy  and  pioneering  innovative 
approaches  to  building  resilience  and  facilitating  its 
transition  to  low-  and  no-carbon  economies  across 
the region.
I will now address the challenges and opportunities 
of  financing  people-centred  development.  The  cost 
of  implementation  is  by  no  means  negligible.  At  the 
national  level,  conservative  estimates  put  the  cost 
of  implementation  of  our  Growth  and  Sustainable 
Development  Strategy  at  a  quarter  of  Belize’s  gross 
domestic  product.  Belize’s  development 
finance 
strategy mirrors the Addis Ababa Agenda for Action. 
We are tapping into a mix of domestic and international 
resources  through  various  channels,  keeping  in  mind 
the  inhospitable  international  policy  environment. 
Domestically,  my  Government  is  strengthening  its 
capacity to improve revenue collection.
lncentivizing business investment in Belize is also 
a critical action point for my Government. Like other 
vulnerable small island developing States (SIDS), Belize 
saw  a  sharp  decline  in  foreign  direct  investment  over 
the period from 2015 to 2016. As of 2016, foreign direct 
investment flows to SIDS represented only 0.2 per cent 
of overall global flows. To buck this downward trend, 
we have reformed the incentives for doing business in 
Belize to comport with the policy space permitted by 
our World Trade Organization obligations.
framework  and 
Government has strengthened the institutional capacity, 
legislative 
supervisory  mandate 
of  its  financial  intelligence  unit.  The  Caribbean 
Financial  Action  Task  Force  has  determined  that 
Belize  is  in  compliance  with  international  standards. 
The  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development’s  Global  Forum  on  Transparency  and 
Exchange  of  Information  for  Tax  Purposes,  which  at 
present sets international standards on tax cooperation, 
has listed Belize as a largely compliant tax jurisdiction, 
following  Belize  successful  completion  of  the  Global 
Forum  peer  review  of  its  legislative,  regulatory  and 
administrative framework.
In 2013, Belize adopted the multilateral Convention 
on  Mutual  Administrative  Assistance  in  Tax  Matters, 
the purpose of which is to facilitate cooperation among 
jurisdictions  with  a  view  to  combating  tax  avoidance 
and  evasion  internationally.  Additionally,  Belize  is 
committed to the Automatic Exchange of Information 
standard and has entered into 31 bilateral Exchange of 
Information agreements.
Nevertheless, Belize’s reputation, financial industry 
and economy remain vulnerable as a result of unilateral 
declarations  that  have  labelled  our  jurisdiction  as 
uncooperative  or  non-compliant.  Such  unilateral 
declarations cause undue damage to Belize’s reputation 
and the integrity of its financial services industry. They 
also dissuade investors and undermine the significant 
legislative  and  administrative  measures  undertaken 
by  our  Government  to  ensure  Belize’s  compliance 
with international standards and legal obligations. But 
even worse, they undermine the very legitimacy of the 
institutions  that  promulgate  the  global  standards  by 
which we are all supposed to be measured.
In Belize’s view, the United Nations must enforce 
the necessary checks and balances that are part of the 
international  financial  architecture.  We  see  a  role  for 
the  United  Nations  in  acting  as  a  central  multilateral 
forum  where  efforts  are  consolidated  and  coherence 
and international cooperation promoted on issues that 
support  domestic  resource  mobilization.  Because  of 
its  universal  nature,  the  United  Nations  is  in  the  best 
position  to  foster  a  more  inclusive,  transparent  and 
consultative  process  for  addressing  such  issues  as 
international cooperation on tax matters and the broader 
question of financing for sustainable development.
We  have  also  reformed  key  institutions  to  ensure 
the  integrity  of  our  financial  services  industry.  The 
Notwithstanding  our  best  efforts,  we  cannot 
meet  the  costs  of  implementation  with  our  domestic 
2/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
resources alone. We rely on our bilateral partners from 
the North and the South. We have also developed strong 
working  relationships  with  multilateral  development 
banks. But with our current status as a middle-income 
country, our access to grant and concessional financing 
is  severely  constrained.  Belize  is  in  the  unenviable 
position  of  being  a  heavily  indebted  middle-income 
country. Our external public debt stands at 70 per cent 
of our gross domestic product, or $2.3 billion, and the 
domestic debt at 22 per cent of gross domestic product, 
or  $750  million.  The  cost  of  interest  for  these  debt 
obligations  is  $109  million  for  the  current  fiscal  year 
alone.  Without  viable  alternatives,  my  Government 
has to finance its development by contracting loans at 
market rates.
My  Government  has  endeavoured  to  appeal  to 
our private creditors to renegotiate the onerous bonds 
that  threaten  to  upend  the  sustainability  of  our  debt. 
However,  the  world  of  international  private  finance 
does  not  place  a  high  priority  on  public  policy,  much 
less  the  public  policy  of  a  foreign  Government.  With 
the  ongoing  crises  resulting  from  the  withdrawal  of 
correspondent  banking  services  from  relationships 
with  our  indigenous  financial  institutions,  the  entire 
Caribbean is experiencing this reality. To the likes of 
Bank of America or JPMorgan Chase it matters not that 
ending correspondent banking relations with a national 
bank or a central bank effectively excludes that nation 
from the global financial system, and, in response, the 
country  where  those  banks  are  located  offers  nothing 
more than sympathy. That is a major concern, not just 
for the Caribbean but for all developing countries, given 
the universal pivot towards the private sector financing 
the development agenda.
It  would  behoove  the  United  Nations  to  develop 
a  participatory  framework  for  the  private  sector  in 
order to keep account of their commitments made and 
actions taken to advance global goals. The High-level 
Political Forum offers a useful platform for integrating 
such  a  framework.  The  United  Nations  should  also 
develop  appropriate  capacities  to  track  the  alignment 
of  private  financial  flows  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  It  is  also  incumbent  on  the 
United  Nations  to  accelerate  progress  in  redefining 
development  metrics  to  respond  to  the  anomaly  of 
heavily indebted middle-income countries, particularly 
those  with  unique  challenges,  such  as  small  island 
developing States.
Belize welcomes the Secretary-General’s commitment 
to  SIDS.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend  him  and  you,  Mr.  President,  for  holding  a 
special session on Hurricane Irma. I wish to extend my 
own Government’s pledge of solidarity to the members 
of  our  Caribbean  family  that  were  devastated  by  that 
unprecedented storm and, more recently, by Hurricane 
Maria.  Hurricanes  Irma  and  Maria  have  exposed  the 
acute  humanitarian  challenge  and  the  equally  acute 
development challenge that SIDS face. That challenge 
is,  without  question,  a  global  one,  as  the  Secretary-
General has rightly stated. We look forward to engaging 
in  action-oriented  discussions  in  order  to  facilitate 
piloting  such  financing-for-sustainable-development 
initiatives  across  SIDS  as  debt  swaps  for  climate 
action  and  the  expansion  of  climate  risk  insurance, 
and  to  support  adaptation  measures  at  individual  to 
national levels.
The United Nations can serve as a global incubator 
for genuine and durable multi-stakeholder partnerships 
that  can  foster  innovation  and  entrepreneurship  in 
SIDS. At the national level, we are ready to engage in 
discussions on how to ensure that the United Nations is 
fit for our country’s purposes on the ground as we aim 
to implement the ambitious 2030 Agenda and develop 
country-specific solutions for sustainable financing.
Belize  fully  agrees  with  the  Secretary-General 
that the United Nations has a crucial role to play as a 
catalyst,  an  innovator,  a  convenor  and  a  champion  of 
what  works.  Since  its  inception,  the  United  Nations 
has  been  orchestrating  a  rules-based  framework  for 
helping  countries  to  cooperate  and  take  collective 
action.  As  we  embrace  a  new  era  of  openness, 
transparency  and  accountability,  United  Nations 
operations must also reflect the openness, transparency 
and accountability of all who engage and benefit from 
international cooperation.
We depend on the United Nations to champion and 
protect the rule of law, ensure the universality of core 
agreements and develop new treaties in order to address 
gaps where they exist. That is why Belize looks to the 
United  Nations  as  a  firewall  between  democracy  and 
tyranny,  between  social  justice  and  oppression,  and 
between the global good and self-interest. Its ultimate 
role is to protect the interests of humankind as a whole. 
In this spirit, we expect the United Nations to act, and 
we  therefore  insist  that  the  overdue  reforms  of  the 
peace and security architecture of the United Nations, 
17-29728
3/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
especially the Security Council, be completed forthwith 
so that there can be no obstacle to action.
Belize  has  long  supported  the  United  Nations  in 
fulfilling its role. We have supported its endeavours to 
forge new partnerships for development, advance global 
health policies, bring justice to victims of crimes against 
humanity, protect the most vulnerable and control the 
spread of weapons of mass destruction, including small 
arms and light weapons. We have been at the forefront 
of  the  global  fight  to  protect  and  preserve  our  shared 
natural environment against environmental degradation 
and  climate  change  and  to  ensure  the  sustainable  use 
of  the  planet,  especially  of  our  oceans,  which  sustain 
life on earth. Through the Caribbean Community, we 
are also leading the charge to deliver reparations to the 
victims of slavery and their descendants.
For  Belize,  as  a  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations,  advocating  for  peaceful  cooperation  among 
States,  the  right  to  self-determination  for  all  peoples 
and  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  is 
a  non-derogable  duty.  We  therefore  cannot  remain 
silent  wherever  injustice  persists.  We  see  injustice 
perpetrated against the people of Taiwan, who uphold 
the core purposes and principles of the United Nations, 
while,  in  contrast,  the  United  Nations  fails  to  uphold 
those purposes and principles with respect to them.
For  more  than  half  a  century,  the  people  of  Cuba 
have been the victims of the injustice of an egregious 
and  illegal  unilateral  embargo.  We  also  see  injustice 
continuing  to  cast  a  shadow  over  the  peoples  of 
Palestine,  Syria,  Yemen,  Western  Sahara  and  South 
Sudan, among others.
The  situation  in  Venezuela  is  one  that  continues 
to  challenge  all  of  us  in  our  region  and  hemisphere. 
Belize  fully  subscribes  to  the  position  of  CARICOM, 
which  underscores  respect  for  international  law  and 
international  principles  and  urges  resolution  through 
dialogue. To that end, CARICOM has offered its own 
good offices.
In our region, we continue to witness the suffering 
of  our  Haitian  brothers  and  sisters.  Belize  cannot 
remain silent in the face of such intolerable injustice, 
nor  should  the  rest  of  the  world.  We  support  United 
Nations  efforts  aimed  at  bringing  justice  to  all  who 
have been alienated, oppressed, victimized or silenced. 
When  we  fail  to  uphold  our  duty  to  the  norms  and 
values of the United Nations, humankind itself suffers. 
But when we defend those norms and values, there is no 
greater redemption. The Haitian people know this fact 
all too well, and, with good reason, they look hopefully 
towards  the  new  United  Nations  approach  to  cholera 
in  Haiti  and  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Mission for Justice Support in Haiti.
Similarly,  when  Belize’s  territorial  integrity  was 
at issue, Belize turned to the United Nations to defend 
the country’s sovereignty over its land, and, for as long 
as we have been a dutiful Member State, we have had 
peace. We want that peace to endure, so we have taken 
every possible step to bring Guatemala to the table of 
justice  in  order  to  resolve  that  country’s  unfounded 
claim on our territory.
In  2008,  Belize  and  Guatemala  agreed  to  refer 
the  Guatemalan  claim  to  Belizean  territory  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  Organization’s 
judicial arm, subject to the will of each of our peoples. 
Both  Belize  and  Guatemala  are  poised  to  hold  the 
requisite referendums to obtain our peoples’ consent. In 
the meantime, with the full support of the Organization 
of American States, we continue to take a constructive 
approach to our bilateral relations and to maintaining 
peace  along  the  borders.  Belize  remains  committed 
to  working  with  Guatemala  to  finalize  a  cooperation 
mechanism for the Sarstoon River in order to minimize 
the  potential  for  tensions  or  incidents  along  Belize’s 
southern border.
In conclusion, for the past 36 years, we Belizeans 
have lived in harmony with one another and with nature. 
Together with our leaders and with the support of other 
friendly  nations,  we  have  built  a  strong  nation  by  the 
sweat of our brows. We have honoured our Constitution, 
which enshrines the principle of social, economic and 
environmental justice for all. We will persevere in our 
efforts  to  achieve  our  just  objectives  and  look  to  the 
United  Nations  for  its  continued  support.  In  turn,  the 
United Nations and every Member State can rest assured 
that Belize will defend our community of nations and 
its purposes and principles. Our national motto is “Sub 
umbra floreo” — “In the shade I flourish”. In the shade 
of the United Nations, we shall all flourish.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Nicola  Renzi,  Minister  for  Foreign  and  Political 
Affairs and Justice of the Republic of San Marino.
Mr.  Renzi  (San  Marino)  (spoke 
in  Italian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf 
of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino,  I 
would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
4/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session and to wish you a successful term. Your 
experience as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Slovakia 
and  your  deep  knowledge  of  international  affairs  are 
invaluable  resources  for  the  United  Nations.  The  San 
Marino delegation assures you of its utmost willingness 
to  work  with  you  in  the  course  of  this  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
My  country  would  also  like  to  offer  its  heartfelt 
congratulations 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  António 
Guterres as he embarks on fulfilling his new mandate 
as Secretary-General. We thank him for the energy and 
determination he has already shown in his first months 
of activity at the helm of the Organization.
I  am  grateful  for  the  theme  chosen  for  this 
session — “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and 
a decent life for all on a sustainable planet” — where 
issues that the Republic of San Marino holds dear, such 
as  human  rights,  peace  and  sustainable  development, 
are  at  the  heart  of  the  agenda.  It  is  a  cross-cutting 
theme,  since  upholding  human  rights  is  reflected  in 
every action the United Nations takes in the service of 
peace,  security,  justice  and  sustainable  development. 
In the coming years, the international community will 
have to do all it can to achieve these objectives.
To  our  dismay,  in  every  situation  of  armed 
conflict we are witnessing the systematic violation of 
human  rights.  Refugees  and  migrants  are  subject  to 
discrimination, various forms of abuse and trafficking. 
Racial  and  religious  discrimination  and  intolerance 
persist in many parts of the world. Inequality and social 
exclusion are at the root of the numerous and increasingly 
complex  challenges  that  the  United  Nations  is  called 
upon to address. Unfortunately, in recent years we have 
seen  an  increase  in  inequality  and  marginalization, 
not  only  in  developing  countries  but  even  in  the 
richest  ones,  where  increasingly  large  sections  of  the 
population struggle against growing poverty. This is a 
threat  to  global  stability,  as  it  leads  to  an  erosion  of 
confidence in national and multilateral institutions and 
fuels  nationalist  and  populist  movements.  Collective 
commitment to human rights is therefore essential.
The  relationship  between  peace,  security  and 
respect for human rights is undeniable. Measures for the 
protection and promotion of human rights are essential 
to preventing conflicts and ensuring peace. Moreover, 
peace and sustainable development are complementary 
concepts. More inclusive and peaceful societies provide 
better  conditions  for  sustainable  development,  and 
vice versa.
The  complexity  of  the  challenges  that  the  United 
Nations must tackle today is unparalleled in the history 
of  the  Organization.  Their  interconnected  nature 
reminds us that countries must act together to be more 
effective  in  the  fight  against  climate  change,  global 
terrorism and poverty and to build more inclusive, safe 
and just societies for all. As the Secretary-General stated 
in his report on the work of the Organization (A/72/1), 
it is important to rekindle faith in multilateralism and, 
in  particular,  in  the  United  Nations.  Our  country  has 
always  believed  in  the  power  of  dialogue  and  respect 
for others, which are values that underpin the peaceful 
coexistence among peoples.
The profoundly egalitarian nature and unquestioned 
legitimacy  of  the  United  Nations,  together  with  the 
universal character of participation in it, unequivocally 
reaffirm  its  value  and  central  role  as  a  forum  for 
solving  global  problems.  The  various  religious  and 
cultural  traditions  present  in  the  Organization  should 
be  not  an  obstacle  but  rather  a  valuable  resource  for 
achieving  global  solutions  through  mediating  and 
synthesizing diversities.
The  United  Nations  must  adapt  quickly  to  new 
global challenges and to the new opportunities offered 
by an increasingly interconnected world so that it can 
be  effective  in  carrying  out  its  mandate.  Reform  is 
therefore crucial to future stability in the world and to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
which  must  remain  at  the  centre  of  our  actions.  We 
reject any diminution of the role of the United Nations 
just  because  a  universal  agreement  on  the  reforms 
needed to improve its functioning cannot be found.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino 
is  attentively 
following  the  revitalization  process  of  the  General 
Assembly, which must continue to be a meeting point 
and  forum  for  the  exchange  of  ideas  and  discussion, 
leading  to  solutions  rooted  in  a  strong  consensus. 
Similarly,  Security  Council  reform  should  be  an 
objective of all Member States. As we have stated on 
previous occasions, we believe that intergovernmental 
negotiations  contribute  to  agreements  that  reflect  a 
broad  and  strong  political  consensus  representing  the 
interests of all negotiating groups.
San  Marino  calls  for  reform  that  can  make  the 
transparent, 
Security  Council  more  democratic, 
efficient  and  accountable.  This  goal  can  be  achieved 
17-29728
5/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
only  through  continuous  dialogue  among  States,  with 
the  understanding  that  it  is  essential  to  go  beyond 
initial  positions  if  the  broadest  agreements  possible 
are  to  be  achieved.  The  Republic  of  San  Marino 
supports the Secretary-General’s reform agenda, which 
features 
streamlining  procedures,  decentralizing 
decision-making  processes  and  achieving  greater 
transparency and accountability.
Human rights are the raison d’être of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  17  Sustainable 
Development Goals. The Agenda defines our future and 
a vision of a peaceful, inclusive and safe society where 
the burden of poverty has been eradicated, prosperity 
is shared and decent work is available to all. Together 
with  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  it  also 
reflects  the  ambition  and  commitment  of  Member 
States  to  reducing  carbon  dioxide  emissions  by  2020, 
giving  our  planet  and  its  inhabitants  the  chance  to 
live longer and in better conditions. The 2030 Agenda 
is  ambitious  because  it  is  universal:  it  integrates  the 
three dimensions of sustainable development — social, 
economic  and  environmental  —  and  is  applicable  to 
all States.
A  year  after  the  adoption  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  their  effective  implementation  is 
the real challenge of today. In many areas covered by 
the 2030 Agenda, progress has unfortunately not been 
in line with hopes. For example, much more needs to 
be  done  for  the  700  million  people  living  in  extreme 
poverty and experiencing malnutrition. More targeted 
actions  should  be  implemented  to  reduce  maternal 
mortality  and  gender  inequality,  ensure  inclusive  and 
equitable  educational  systems,  invest  in  sustainable 
energy  and  provide  health  care  to  wider  segments  of 
the population. The implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
is the responsibility of individual States, which should 
keep  their  promises  by  incorporating  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals into their development legislation 
and policies.
A cultural revolution must be part of our policies 
in  the  coming  years.  In  the  Republic  of  San  Marino, 
for instance, we have promoted education initiatives on 
sustainable  development  in  various  sectors,  including 
education,  construction,  waste  disposal  and  public 
transport. As a complement to national Governments, 
civil society and the private sector also play important 
roles  in  mobilizing  the  resources  needed  for  the 
implementation  of  the  Agenda.  In  this  regard,  San 
Marino recalls the important results achieved following 
the adoption of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, which 
identified various concrete measures that could be taken 
to finance development and laid the foundation for the 
global programme contained in the 2030 Agenda.
The 2030 Agenda states that the rights of the most 
vulnerable  people  must  be  promoted  and  protected. 
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  always  paid  special 
attention  to  the  most  vulnerable  groups  —  women, 
children,  the  elderly  and  the  disabled.  San  Marino, 
which  was  among  the  first  countries  to  become 
signatories to the Convention on the Rights of Persons 
with  Disabilities,  intends  to  fully  implement  that 
Convention  by  adopting  legislative  frameworks  and 
policies that favour the inclusion and full participation 
of  people  with  disabilities  in  the  employment,  social 
and cultural contexts of the country.
Gender equality must be a goal of the international 
community.  Unfortunately,  women  are  still  victims 
of  discrimination  and  violence  in  many  parts  of  the 
world,  including  in  the  most  developed  countries.  In 
support  of  the  initiatives  promoted  by  the  Secretary-
General, San Marino has signed the voluntary compact 
on preventing sexual exploitation and abuse in United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  We  believe  that  the 
rights and dignity of the victims of sexual abuse should 
be at the heart of our collective efforts.
Children  are  sadly  the  most  vulnerable  group 
of  all  and  can  be  victims  of  violence,  abuse  and 
exploitation. Protecting their rights must be at the heart 
of  our  actions.  San  Marino  supports  the  Ministerial 
Declaration  made  at  this  year’s  High-Level  Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development,  which  reaffirms 
the  commitment  of  the  international  community  to 
children, focusing in particular on eradicating poverty, 
promoting their participation and eliminating all forms 
of violence and discrimination.
Refugees  and  migrants  continue  to  be  subject  to 
violent  discrimination.  The  enormous  humanitarian 
challenge  posed  by  large  movements  of  refugees 
and  migrants  can  be  addressed  only  through  greater 
cooperation  and  better  sharing  of  responsibilities  and 
costs  among  all  States.  The  movement-of-peoples 
phenomenon  has  reached  a  level  unprecedented  in 
the  history  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Republic  of 
San  Marino  supports  the  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees and Migrants, adopted in September 2016. It 
contains  a  series  of  bold  commitments  to  addressing 
the challenges posed by the large flows of migrants and 
6/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
refugees, but it also provides for developing a plan for 
the implementation of these commitments.
In  addition  to  dealing  with  large  movements  of 
refugees and migrants, the United Nations has also been 
called on to address grave and complex humanitarian 
crises. As the Secretary-General mentioned in his report 
on  the  activity  of  the  Organization,  approximately 
96  million  people,  in  more  than  40  countries,  more 
than half of whom were women and children, received 
humanitarian assistance in 2017. The report shows that 
in  2016,  natural  disasters  caused  the  displacement  of 
approximately  31  million  people,  three  times  more 
than  those  forced  to  flee  because  of  armed  conflicts. 
An  unprecedented  food  crisis  has  affected  more  than 
20 million people on the African continent.
The Republic of San Marino has always supported 
cooperation projects and emergency interventions under 
the  auspices  of  numerous  international  organizations, 
in particular entities within the United Nations family. 
Our  country  is  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  rapid  and  crucial  action  he  has  undertaken  for 
populations facing humanitarian emergencies, as well 
as to the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian 
Affairs and the Central Emergency Response Fund for 
their rapid response and substantial contribution.
Today, the United Nations is engaged in the widest 
deployment  of  peacekeeping  operations  and  special 
political missions in its history. Recent and ongoing wars 
have caused great suffering for civilians, unprecedented 
global humanitarian crises, tragic, massive movements 
of migrants and refugees, and an increase in terrorism, 
violent extremism, populism and intolerance.
Despite the negotiations for a political solution in 
Syria, which resumed in January under the auspices of 
the United Nations, facilitated by the Special Envoy of 
the  Secretary-General,  to  whom  the  Republic  of  San 
Marino  gives  its  full  support,  the  situation  remains 
highly  volatile,  has  led  to  a  massive  displacement  of 
civilians  and,  at  the  same  time,  poses  a  threat  to  the 
stability of the entire region.
in  his 
The Republic of San Marino supports the Secretary-
General 
initiative  aimed  at  strengthening 
prevention  activities  and  conflict  mediation.  In  this 
regard,  my  country  will  participate  in  the  Italian 
initiative  for  the  creation  of  a  network  of  women 
mediators  in  the  Mediterranean  area,  the  purpose 
of  which  is  to  contribute  to  peace  processes  through 
prevention  and  mediation.  By  establishing  relations 
with  the  various  national  or  regional  stakeholders 
and  working  to  achieve  sustainable  peace,  the  United 
Nations  should  be  able  to  anticipate  the  causes  of  a 
possible conflict.
More  and  more  frequently,  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism  are  generated  and  fuelled  by  armed 
conflicts,  exacerbating  ethnic,  religious,  political  and 
economic tensions. Violations of human rights by such 
terrorist  groups  as  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the 
Levant, Al-Qaida and Boko Haram are very serious and 
include murder, kidnapping, forced conversion, human 
trafficking, slavery, sexual abuse, and the destruction 
of places of religious or cultural significance for ethnic 
and religious minorities.
The self-proclaimed Islamic State and its associated 
forces have also been responsible for numerous deadly 
terrorist  attacks  in  Europe,  Asia  and  Africa.  The 
international community and the United Nations must 
act so that those responsible for those heinous crimes are 
brought  to  justice.  San  Marino  supports  the  activities 
and  initiatives  of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting 
justice and the rule of law, which form an integral part 
of the agenda to promote and protect human rights.
My  country  welcomes  the  actions  taken  by  the 
Secretary-General,  with  the  support  of  the  General 
Assembly, to establish the Office of Counter-Terrorism, 
headed  by  an  Under-Secretary-General,  with  a  view 
to  enhancing  coherence  in  United  Nations  action  and 
provide better assistance to Member States in their own 
fight against terrorism.
Disarmament  activity  plays  a  crucial  role  in 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  The 
recent  tests  carried  out  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  in  the  context  of  a  nuclear-
weapons  programme  threaten  security  globally  as 
well  as  regionally  and  underline  the  need  for  robust 
disarmament and non-proliferation policies. San Marino 
strongly  condemns  the  launching  of  missiles  by  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  demands 
that it cease such activity. We also call for the sanctions 
set  forth  in  recent  Security  Council  resolutions  to  be 
fully implemented by all States.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  took  part  in  the 
negotiations that led to the adoption of the Treaty on the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  last  July.  The  Treaty 
is an important step in efforts aimed at achieving the 
shared goal of a world without nuclear weapons.
17-29728
7/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
In  order  to  address  today’s  many  and  complex 
challenges, the United Nations must be more effective 
and  flexible.  Member  States  must  assume 
their 
responsibilities in that regard, including that of helping 
our  Organization  live  up  to  its  mandate,  which  is  to 
protect the citizens of the world.
Thanks  to  its  centuries-long  history  of  peace  and 
freedom, San Marino is a State with a strong identity. 
Although  our  State  is  small,  it  is  proud  to  make 
its  contribution  to  the  United  Nations  community. 
Everything  we  do  is  aimed  at  restoring  the  capacity 
and  authority  of  the  United  Nations,  so  that  it  can 
continue to be the indispensable reference point of the 
international community.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Aurelia  Frick,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Minister  for  Education  and  Minister  for  Cultural 
Affairs of the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Ms. Frick (Liechtenstein): Mr. President, it is good 
to  see  you  presiding  over  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. We know that we are in very able hands, and 
I  look  forward  to  working  closely  with  you.  We  also 
salute  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  António  Guterres, 
for his leadership. I am confident that he will chart an 
intelligent course for us to make the changes we wish to 
see in the United Nations.
Mr.  President,  you  have  proposed  for  this  session 
the theme “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and 
a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”,  which 
takes us back to the very beginning of the Charter of 
the United Nations, written on behalf of the peoples of 
the world. To this day, the United Nations symbolizes 
great hope around the globe — hope for peace, hope for 
justice and hope for a life of dignity and decency, which 
represent the basic ambition of every human being. Yet 
fulfilling these hopes remains elusive for millions, and 
for millions of others those hopes have been shattered.
Intolerance and nationalism were the drivers of the 
Second World War, and the Organization was founded 
in response to them. It is a place where we seek solutions 
together, instead of pursuing nationalist agendas. Only 
by  embracing  this  understanding  will  we  be  able  to 
achieve  the  best  results  at  the  United  Nations.  The 
horrors of armed conflict — the tragedy of the Second 
World War in particular — led the founding nations to 
pledge to save succeeding generations from the scourge 
of  war.  We  have  make  a  collective  commitment  to 
removing  threats  to  peace  and  to  suppressing  acts  of 
aggression.  But  today  we  often  manage  and  contain 
armed  conflict  rather  than  preventing  it  in  the  first 
place. We must do better.
This year we have the opportunity to take a historic 
step  forward.  For  the  first  time  since  the  creation  of 
the  United  Nations,  we  can  give  an  international 
tribunal jurisdiction over the crime of aggression. The 
most  serious  forms  of  the  illegal  use  of  force  will  be 
punishable. The tribunal in charge — and the centrepiece 
of our common fight for accountability — will be the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  I  appeal  to  those 
assembled here today to live up to the commitment we 
made when we signed onto the United Nations Charter. 
Let us enforce the prohibition of the illegal use of force 
by making it punishable in the highest court of criminal 
law we have.
Next year, we will celebrate the twentieth anniversary 
of  the  ICC.  With  jurisdiction  over  the  most  serious 
violations of international law, the establishment of the 
Court was an enormous achievement, but, today, it still 
lacks universality. There remains therefore a significant 
impunity  gap.  A  very  large  number  of  people  in  the 
world do not benefit from its legal protection.
These people must not be left without hope. They 
too  deserve  real  prospects  for  justice.  The  people 
of  Syria,  for  example,  have  suffered  unspeakable 
violence.  The  crimes  committed  against  them  have 
been  atrocious.  And  the  silence  with  which  we  met 
those  atrocities  for  so  long  puts  us  all  to  shame.  But 
finally, late last year, we came together to create a real 
possibility for justice — the International, Impartial and 
Independent Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation 
and  Prosecution  of  those  Responsible  for  the  Most 
Serious  Crimes  under  International  Law  committed 
in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  since  March  2011,  the 
accountability  mechanism  established  by  the  General 
Assembly 
in  resolution  71/248.  The  Mechanism 
itself  will  not  conduct  criminal  proceedings  against 
perpetrators. But it could be critically important in the 
preparation of case files for prosecution in courts with 
jurisdiction. This is a decisive step forward. A key to the 
Mechanism’s  success  will  be  strong  support  from  us, 
the States Members of the United Nations — politically, 
by  insisting  on  the  importance  of  justice  as  part  of 
political solutions; financially, by providing sustainable 
funding; and substantively, by sharing information and 
evidence of crimes that are in our possession.
8/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
Accountability  for  the  worst  crimes  imaginable, 
whether committed in Syria or elsewhere, is essential. 
But  the  truth  is  that  there  is  no  remedy  and  no 
compensation for these crimes. Prevention is the only 
effective form of protection. We look in particular to the 
Security Council for leadership. I thank the 113 States 
that have joined us in supporting the code of conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes. Together, we 
represent a strong majority of States expecting effective 
action from the Council aimed at ending and preventing 
such  crimes.  This  pledge  could  not  come  at  a  better 
moment.  The  Secretary-General  has  made  prevention 
a key priority in his agenda, and applying the Code of 
Conduct works best when there is productive interplay 
between him and the Security Council.
Never  before  have  the  needs  for  humanitarian 
assistance been as great as they are today. And never 
before have we seen such a significant shortfall in our 
response. The so-called forgotten crises are those that 
may  need  our  attention  the  most.  Yet  our  collective 
attention  span  barely  does  justice  to  even  the  most 
visible of emergencies.
Armed conflict remains a key driver of displacement, 
human suffering and instability. But there are numerous 
other  factors  that  make  people  leave  their  homes. 
Today,  unprecedented  numbers  of  people  are  on  the 
move across the globe. Across the backdrop of history, 
there  have  been  various  periods  of  mass  migration 
and there is ample evidence that migration has been a 
positive  and  enriching  factor  for  receiving  societies. 
But mass movements of people and irregular migration 
in particular also tend to create anxiety and fear. Taking 
these reactions seriously is crucial to overcoming them.
My  son,  Leonard,  entered  kindergarten  last  year. 
Two children in his group are refugees from Syria. As a 
mother, I reflected on how this might influence him and 
his  development.  What  happened  was  that  he  quickly 
learned  a  few  words  in  Arabic  and  he  knows  what  a 
Syrian  birthday  cake  tastes  like.  He  also  understands 
now  that  there  are  kids  who  spend  every  single  night 
thinking that their house might be bombed.
We  place  high  hopes  in  the  global  compact  for 
safe, orderly and regular migration that we will adopt 
together  next  year.  I  echo  the  call  of  the  Secretary-
General: migration must be an option, not a necessity. 
Irregular  migrants  are  particularly  vulnerable 
to 
exploitation and abuse. Human trafficking and modern 
slavery are perhaps the greatest human rights scandal 
of  our  time.  They  are  also  a  global  phenomenon  and 
they  particularly  thrive  in  circumstances  that  create 
high  levels  of  vulnerability.  As  is  the  case  so  often, 
women and girls are disproportionately affected. Many 
decades  ago,  we  agreed  on  the  abolition  of  slavery 
in  all  its  forms.  The  relevant  legal  norm  requires 
universal application. And yet the reality is that there 
is a disturbing level of impunity for the commission of 
these acts.
We  must  no  longer  accept  this  paradox.  Human 
trafficking  and  modern  slavery  are  not  just  crimes, 
they are also a profitable form of organized crime. We 
therefore see great potential here in applying the tools 
developed  to  combat  other  forms  of  organized  crime. 
Following the money can lead us to the perpetrators of 
these crimes. In this regard, Liechtenstein is prepared to 
share the expertise it has acquired as a financial centre 
committed  to  international  standards  of  transparency 
and accountability.
The  people  whom  we  serve  look  to  us  to  reduce 
risks  and  defuse  tensions.  Yet  the  world  is  spiralling 
towards a new arms race. We are facing increased risks 
of self-destruction, including the unspeakable horror of 
the use of nuclear weapons. Most of us remember the 
shocking pictures of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 
1945 from our history books. The United Nations was 
built on the ashes of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and on 
the promise of “never again”, but, owing to collective 
complacency, we have not delivered on that promise.
This week we have changed course for the better with 
the signing of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons.  Without  any  doubt,  it  will  take  time  to  see 
the Treaty’s effects on nuclear stockpiles. Nevertheless, 
setting  a  number  of  important  legal  benchmarks  that 
will become binding norms is great progress. Nuclear 
weapons are prohibited and should be eliminated. Their 
use can never be justified. The suffering that they cause 
runs  counter  to  fundamental  principles  of  humanity, 
the basic tenets of international humanitarian law and 
the  dictates  of  public  conscience.  On  Wednesday,  I 
signed the Treaty on behalf of Liechtenstein as one of 
50 signatory States. Together we extend a hand to those 
who so far have chosen to stand apart. We need their 
commitment to succeed in finally ridding the world of 
nuclear weapons.
I  have  had  the  privilege  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  eight  times.  On  each  of  those  occasions, 
17-29728
9/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
I  have  talked  about  a  particular  aspect  of  the  work 
of  the  United  Nations  that  is  of  special  significance 
to  me  —  full  gender  equality.  The  progress  made  in 
the  past  few  decades  has  significantly  slowed,  both 
internationally  and  back  home.  That  is  a  disturbing 
trend.  Commitments  have  gone  unfulfilled  and 
strategies have turned out to be little more than empty 
promises. The achievements that nobody questioned 20 
years ago are now under attack. The level of political 
participation has decreased, and the statistics on gender 
pay  gaps  are  still  shocking.  Yet  I  remain  not  only 
committed  but  optimistic,  simply  because  I  strongly 
believe  that  many  of  our  common  goals  will  become 
achievable only if we indeed achieve gender equality. 
In  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the  domestic 
and the international come together. If there is one area 
in which the United Nations must show the way, this is 
certainly it.
The work of the United Nations can seem abstract. 
Explaining  its  relevance  to  our  citizens  at  home 
and  to  our  children  can  be  a  challenge.  There  are 
topics  that  make  that  task  much  easier,  however;  for 
example,  climate  change.  Everyone  understands  what 
is at stake in that discussion. If we cannot live on our 
planet, no one will prosper, irrespective of nationality, 
gender  or  economic  wealth.  And  no  country,  large  or 
small,  can  tackle  the  problem  on  its  own.  The  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change does not end the threat 
of climate change, but it is our only realistic hope for 
addressing  the  issue  together.  I  therefore  experienced 
great  satisfaction  when  I  deposited  Liechtenstein’s 
instrument of ratification earlier this week. Indeed, it 
is something I will be proud to share with my children.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Nikos Kotzias, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Hellenic Republic.
Mr. Kotzias (Greece) (spoke in Greek; English text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  First  of  all,  I  would  like 
to  wish  every  success  to  the  new  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Guterres, and reaffirm our full support for his work.
Allow  me  also  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  both 
your election to the office of President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  and  on  the 
choice of this year’s main theme.
Our world is changing rapidly today. We are going 
through a second era of machines — an era in which 
machines are no longer an extension of physical strength 
but provide spiritual wealth and knowledge. Although 
today they are faster and smaller, they have an immense 
impact on our daily lives, affecting the way we work, 
produce,  communicate  and  interact.  This  new  trend 
could be described as the fourth Industrial Revolution. 
It brings with it innovations and advantages, as well as 
challenges, especially for States. These challenges must 
be addressed in an effective manner if we are to survive 
in the complex international reality of today.
States have to show resilience and meet the needs of 
their peoples in terms of human rights, communication, 
growth  and  innovation.  They  have  to  evolve,  but  this 
evolution must linked to that of the Organization. Will 
the  United  Nations  be  able  to  keep  pace  with  these 
developments and adapt to new, emerging realities? In 
the light of this double adaptation, this is an extremely 
critical time. It will require  reforms that can enable the 
United Nations to remain relevant in an ever-changing 
world  that  is  very  different  from  the  one  that  existed 
in 1945. If the United Nations is to retain its ability to 
fulfil its mandate, it must evolve to meet the challenges 
before us.
As 
insecurity  and 
instability  abound  over 
large  swathes  of  the  globe,  Greece  is  formulating 
a  multidimensional  foreign  policy  with  a  view  to 
actively  contributing  to  the  attainment  of  peace 
through concrete proposals in international forums and 
regional  organizations  and  the  promotion  of  stability 
through  political  initiatives.  More  specifically,  we 
favour the prospect of broadening the agenda that the 
institutionalized dialogue and cooperation between the 
European Union and the United Nations is addressing 
on an already wide array of issues of global concern.
In  line  with  our  shared  vision,  we  all  want  to 
see  a  world  free  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
In  that  context,  we  firmly  condemn  North  Korea’s 
ongoing  illegal  nuclear-weapon  and  ballistic-missile 
programmes,  including  its  most  recent  test,  which 
seriously  endanger  regional  and  international  peace 
and  security.  Considering 
in 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
that  we  have 
seen  over  the  past  year,  I  believe  that  it  is  now  more 
imperative than ever to seek avenues of dialogue with 
the participation of nuclear-weapon States. That could 
be  a  way  to  bridge  the  gap  between  the  step-by-step 
approach to nuclear disarmament and a non-verifiable 
immediate and total ban.
the  developments 
While  it  is  situated  close  to  regions  that  are 
extremely turbulent, such as the Middle East and parts 
10/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
of  North  Africa,  Greece  continues  to  be  a  pillar  of 
stability. In that context, we have recently undertaken 
many  initiatives,  such  as  the  Rhodes  Conference  for 
Security and Stability and the International Conference 
on  Religious  and  Cultural  Pluralism  and  Peaceful 
Coexistence  in  the  Middle  East,  held  in  Athens,  as 
well  as  the  recently  established  Ancient  Civilizations 
Forum,  whose  latest  meeting  took  place  here  in  New 
York  only  yesterday.  The  Rhodes  Conference  focuses 
on a positive agenda of cooperation among 20 European 
and Arab countries in the Eastern Mediterranean, with 
the aim of fostering stability and security in the region.
I  would  also  like  to  mention  that,  together  with 
Cyprus, in a context of promoting peace and stability 
in  the  Eastern  Mediterranean,  we  have  established  a 
number of trilateral forms of cooperation that include 
Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Palestine. Our main 
objective is to develop a positive and multidimensional 
agenda  for  cooperation  in  international  affairs,  with 
a  focus  on  synergies  and  joint  activities,  especially 
through  culture,  as  one  of  the  main  drivers  of  soft 
power in international relations, and in other areas of 
cooperation such as trade, education and research.
Enhancing  regional  cooperation  in  the  Balkans 
is  also  the  basic  principle  behind  the  Greek  initiative 
of quadrilateral meetings launched in Thessaloniki in 
April  2016  between  the  Foreign  Ministers  of  Greece, 
Albania, Bulgaria and the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia. At their forthcoming meeting in October, 
with a view to developing an effective response to the 
refugee crisis that is in line with European democratic 
values  and  principles,  the  four  countries  will  focus 
on  identifying  ways  for  improving  their  interaction 
on  issues  such  as  return  operations,  the  exchange  of 
information and tackling smuggling, human trafficking, 
terrorism and organized crime and energy networks.
The Syrian war has taken a terrible toll in human 
lives and  has  displaced  millions.  A  cessation  of 
hostilities  is  essential  to  ensuring  progress  in  the 
political  negotiations.  Greece  sees  no  alternative  to  a 
political solution to the crisis, and we fully support an 
inclusive  political  dialogue  in  Geneva  under  United 
Nations auspices.
peace and security alongside the State of Israel, while 
at  the  same  time  ensuring  that  Israel’s  long-standing 
quest for security is satisfied.
With  regard 
to  Libya,  Greece  considers 
the 
international  efforts  to  stabilize  the  country  to  be 
crucial. We firmly believe that there can be no military 
solution to the crisis in that country and support every 
effort to achieve peace and security there.
Terrorism  remains  one  of 
the  major  global 
challenges  we  face,  and  the  significant  progress 
we  have  seen  recently  in  the  fight  against  Da’esh 
deserves  special  mention.  Strengthening  international 
cooperation among all the relevant actors and improving 
the exchange of information constitute key elements in 
tackling the flows of foreign fighters. At the same time,
we must address the root causes of violent extremism. 
Greece is actively involved in our shared fight against 
terrorism.  In  the  context  of  the  work  of  preventing 
terrorists from exploiting resources for their activities, 
we  particularly  support  international  efforts  aimed  at 
promoting  concerted  international  action  against  the 
illegal trade in antiquities and cultural artefacts.
We  consistently  pursue  friendly  relations  and 
enhanced  cooperation  with  all  our  neighbours  with  a 
view  to  promoting  stability  and  prosperity  for  all.  In 
the Western Balkans, Greece remains a firm supporter 
of the European Union’s enlargement policy. The rise 
of nationalistic rhetoric in the region is very worrying, 
however.  We  want  to  underline  that  actions  and 
statements that undermine good-neighbourly relations 
should be avoided at all costs.
We  should  also  emphasize  that  we  maintain  a 
friendly approach to the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia. Greece’s initiative aimed at designing and 
implementing  bilateral  confidence-building  measures 
has  strengthened  relations  between  us  and  facilitated 
efforts  to  address  more  sensitive  matters,  such  as  the 
ongoing issue of our neighbour’s name. In that respect, 
Greece  will  continue  its  systematic  efforts  to  reach  a 
mutually acceptable solution to the issue of the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia’s name. Our position 
is clear — the name must be mutually acceptable.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict remains a constant 
threat to regional stability and security, and the current 
situation on the ground is not sustainable. We support 
a  two-State  solution,  meaning  the  establishment  of  a 
sovereign and independent State of Palestine living in 
Where  Greek-Turkish  relations  are  concerned,  we 
believe they can be built only on a basis of full respect 
for  international  law,  including  the  international  law 
of the sea. We have repeatedly pointed out that good-
neighbourly  relations  are  not  served  by  a  neighbour 
17-29728
11/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
that  persistently  challenges  Greece’s  sovereignty  and 
sovereign rights.
in 
the  concept  outlined  by 
With  regard  to  the  Cyprus  issue,  our  objective 
is  summed  up 
the 
Secretary-General  at  the  international  Conference 
on  Cyprus  —  which  is  to  make  Cyprus  a  so-called 
normal  State,  one  that  is  sovereign,  independent  and 
free of foreign-occupation troops, external guarantees 
and  rights  to  intervention.  Unfortunately,  the  July 
Conference  on  Cyprus  in  Switzerland  ended  without 
an  agreement  being  reached,  because  the  Turkish 
and  Turkish-Cypriot sides  were  the  only  parties  at 
the  Conference  that  did  not  share  the  goal  of  the 
normal-State  concept.  Greece  is  prepared  to  continue 
discussing  the  key  international  issue  of  security 
and  guarantees  as  soon  as  Turkey  demonstrates  clear 
willingness  to  resume  negotiations  on  the  basis  of 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  as  well  as 
within the framework of the parameters outlined by the 
Secretary-General in Crans-Montana.
In the area of civil and political rights, we actively 
support  the  fight  against  racism  and  all  forms  of 
discrimination, whether on religious, gender, sexual or 
any other grounds. In that regard, Greece, with the aim of 
prioritizing the safety of journalists and media workers, 
especially  in  conflict  areas,  will  submit  a  relevant 
thematic draft resolution in the Third Committee at the 
current session. In the framework of the Human Rights 
Council, my country has also spearheaded an initiative 
with  its  successful  submission  of  a  draft  for  Human 
Rights Council resolution 35/28, on the convening of the 
Social Forum in 2018 in order to focus on the promotion 
of human rights through sport and the Olympic ideal.
Mrs. Pobee (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
My  country  remains  committed  to  the  protection 
of  human  rights  in  all  policies  that  address  large 
movements of migrants, with particular attention to the 
needs  of  migrants,  including  children,  in  vulnerable 
situations.  We  also  believe  that  implementing  that 
framework  correctly  is  more  important  than  ever  if 
we  are  to  protect  those  who  need  it,  combat  human 
trafficking and migrant smuggling and return those not 
entitled to international protection to their homes, while 
at the same time tackling the root causes of migration 
through effective cooperation with countries of origin 
and  transit.  Finally,  the  issue  of  ensuring  the  social 
and  economic  inclusion  of  legal  migrants  is  equally 
important and deserves our full attention. Greece has 
reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  ensuring  the  full  and 
effective implementation of the New York Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  and  its  annexes,  adopted 
by  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  also 
emphasize our commitment to working in the context 
of  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration to be concluded by 2018.
I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that,  as  a 
founding  Member  of  the  Organization,  Greece  will 
lend  it  its  unfailing  support  as  the  United  Nations 
works  to  rise  to  the  task  of  creating  a  more  peaceful 
and  prosperous  future,  with  justice  and  solidarity  for 
all, especially for generations to come.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Maxine  Pamela  Ometa  McClean,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados.
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados):  On  behalf  of  my 
delegation, I would like to congratulate the President on 
his election to lead the General Assembly at its seventy-
second  session  and  to  assure  him  that  he  has  the  full 
support and cooperation of the Barbados delegation as 
he undertakes his important duties. I would also like to 
take this opportunity to commend his predecessor in the 
presidency, Mr. Peter Thomson, for his able leadership 
of  the  Assembly  during  the  seventy-first  session.  He 
has been a worthy exemplar of the valuable contribution 
that small island developing States (SIDS) can make to 
international organizations, and we are pleased that he 
will continue to serve the international community.
The theme of this year’s general debate, “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on a sustainable planet”, is a reminder of the purposes 
and  principles  that  the  Organization  has  embraced 
from its inception and that are enshrined in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  brings  into  sharp  focus  our 
responsibility to pursue the best interests of the people 
who occupy planet Earth. For if we fail to advance the 
causes of security, sustainable development and human 
rights together, none of them will succeed.
I  stand  before  this  organ  for  the  eighth  time.  On 
each occasion that I have addressed the nations gathered 
here, I have issued a caution about the ramifications of 
unchecked climate change and highlighted the existential 
threat facing vulnerable small island developing States 
such  as  Barbados.  In  his  first  address  to  the  General 
Assembly,  in  2008  (see  A/63/PV.12),  the  then  Prime 
Minister  of  Barbados,  the  late  David  Thompson, 
described  the  Caribbean  as  a  region  at  the  epicentre 
12/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
of the global climate crisis. Citing scientific evidence 
and the devastating effects of climate change that were 
already evident in the region, he told the Assembly that 
failure  to  take  urgent,  ambitious  and  decisive  action 
would be nothing short of reckless indifference.
nature from the eleventh hurricane in a season that has 
not yet ended. By the grace of God, Barbados has so far 
been spared, but we in the Caribbean are one family. We 
are brothers and sisters, and when one of us is hurting 
we all feel the pain.
Seven  years  later,  the  current  Prime  Minister  of 
Barbados, Mr. Freundel Stuart, reminded the world that
“none of the nations represented in this Assembly 
will enjoy sustainable prosperity if we continue to 
abuse the environment that we hold in sacred trust 
for  future  generations.  [...]  The  very  existence  of 
small island States like those in the Caribbean and 
the Pacific could be imperilled if current trends are 
not halted or reversed.” (A/66/PV.22, p. 45)
Many leaders from small island developing States 
have  also  consistently  warned  of  the  inherent  danger 
of  inaction,  or  insufficient  action,  to  reduce  global 
emissions. Such failures to act imperil lives, livelihoods 
and the very existence of sovereign States. Year after 
year,  our  leaders  have  warned  of  the  escalating  costs 
of  responding  to  the  effects  of  climate  change  and 
of  the  fact  that  decades  of  development  gains  could 
easily  be  washed  away  in  a  few  hours  by  an  extreme 
weather event. We have also endured the persistent and 
frustrating challenge of gaining access to the resources 
we  need  to  strengthen  our  resilience  and  protect  our 
peoples from the ravages of climate change. That is of 
course owing to a narrow focus on per capita income on 
the part of donors and international development banks 
and agencies.
The  clarion  call  from  the  Caribbean  has  been 
ignored, and today we are witnessing the results of that 
reckless indifference. I regret the fact that I must today 
report not merely the potential threat that climate change 
poses  to  the  globe,  but  rather  its  destructive  impact. 
I  am  referring  in  particular  to  the  utter  devastation 
that  we  are  seeing  in  several  small  island  developing 
States  in  the  Caribbean  that  have  been  overwhelmed 
by an unprecedented wave of hurricanes. On Saturday, 
16 September, when I arrived in New York, the people 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  of  the  Caribbean  were 
working feverishly to restore some semblance of order 
to  the  islands  shattered  by  Irma,  the  ninth  named 
hurricane of the 2017 season. A mere two days later, in 
the early hours of Monday, I read with horror the pleas 
of the Prime Minister of Dominica when he reached out 
to the world to share the trauma he was experiencing 
as his small island was ravaged by the brutal force of 
For  much  of  the  Caribbean,  tourism  is  the  major 
economic sector, and it has been built on the premise 
of  providing  the  world  with  a  zone  of  peace  and 
health.  The  threat  of  disease  must  be  avoided.  One 
possible consequence of the recent floods and serious 
infrastructural  damage  in  the  region  is  the  outbreak 
of  disease.  Our  ability  to  detect  and  respond  to  such 
biological  threats  must  be  strengthened.  There  must 
be  bilateral  and  multilateral  cooperation  in  order  to 
minimize  and  eliminate  such  threats,  and  a  focus  on 
biosecurity  must  be  part  of  our  response.  There  must 
be attention paid to a global health security agenda. For 
Barbados,  as  an  island  State,  the  ocean  is  a  priority. 
Ocean governance and the promotion and conservation 
of  marine  resources  therefore  represent  one  of  our 
primary concerns.
The  road  to  recovery  and  reconstruction  for 
Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica and the other islands 
affected  by  this  devastating  hurricane  season  will  be 
long and difficult. I take comfort in the spirit, will and 
determination of the Caribbean people. We are down but 
not defeated. Our neighbours in the Caribbean affected 
by the recent hurricanes can be assured of the full and 
unconditional support and solidarity of the Government 
and the people of Barbados. However, our friends in the 
international  community  must  support  the  Caribbean 
region  on  its  journey  to  rebuild  the  affected  islands. 
We  are  all  morally  obligated  to  do  so.  In  that  regard, 
I  call  on  the  President  of  the  World  Bank  and  on  the 
Secretary-General to convene an international pledging 
conference  on  the  recovery  and  reconstruction  of  the 
Caribbean  islands  affected  by  Hurricanes  Irma  and 
Maria. I urge all Member States to support the recovery 
and rebuilding of the Caribbean.
For  Barbados  and  other  SIDS,  whether  in  the 
Caribbean, the Pacific, Asia or Africa, climate change 
is a matter of life and death. It is not an issue for sterile 
debates  and  endless  meetings.  For  our  people,  it  is 
about the loss of life and livelihood. For our economies, 
heavily  dependent  on  tourism,  it  is  about  a  cycle  of 
constant  recovery  and  rebuilding,  which  is  a  serious 
impediment  to  sustainable  development.  Barbados 
remains  committed  to  ambitious  action  on  climate 
change. We continue to support the implementation of 
17-29728
13/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we view 
the Secretary-General’s proposal for a climate summit 
in 2019 as an important opportunity to take stock and 
give  additional  impetus  where  necessary.  Barbados’s 
support  for  global  action  on  climate  change  is  one 
part  of  its  overall  policy  of  promoting  and  protecting 
the  environment.  We  have 
taken  concrete  steps 
towards  building  a  resource-efficient  green  economy 
that  is  integrated  into  our  national  framework  for 
sustainable development.
Barbados  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
convey  its  solidarity  with  the  Government  and  the 
people of Mexico, who are suffering the painful effects 
of two deadly earthquakes in quick succession.
A  key  element  of  this  year’s  theme  is  striving 
for  peace.  Barbados  is  a  democratic,  peace-loving 
nation.  Last  year  my  country  celebrated  the  fiftieth 
anniversary  of  its  independence,  which  was  gained 
through negotiation and mutual agreement. We cherish 
and  nurture  our  political  and  social  stability,  based 
on  our  history  of  more  than  375  years  of  unbroken 
parliamentary  Government.  We  believe  that  peace  is 
an  indispensable  prerequisite  for  sustainable  human, 
social  and  economic  development.  For  us,  it  is  an 
essential pillar that supports the national mission of the 
Government of Barbados, which is based on achieving 
sustainable  economic  and  social  development  for  the 
nation,  protecting  the  environment,  maintaining  good 
governance  and  strengthening  our  citizens’  security. 
We are committed to inclusive development as a means 
of achieving lasting peace and stability at the national 
and international levels.
We regret that there can be no peace of mind for the 
people  of  the  Caribbean  who  must  rebuild  their  lives 
and livelihoods. But the mission of the United Nations 
is  to  secure  global  peace.  We  were  reminded  by  the 
Secretary-General at the very start of our deliberations 
that “[w]e are a world in pieces. We need to be a world at 
peace” (see A/72/PV.3). Each and every member of the 
international  community  has  an  obligation  to  support 
efforts and take action to create an environment in which 
peace can flourish. The countries of Latin America and 
the  Caribbean  have  declared  the  Caribbean  as  a  zone 
of peace. I take this opportunity to express Barbados’s 
unwavering support to the protection and preservation 
of the territorial integrity of our Caribbean Community 
sister countries Guyana and Belize.
Barbados joins other States Members of the United 
Nations in the effort to collectively address the many 
other  diverse  challenges  to  which  the  international 
community must find and implement solutions. In the 
past  few  years,  the  countries  represented  here  have 
made  historic  international  commitments,  including 
the SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action (SAMOA) 
Pathway, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  the  Paris  Climate  Change  Agreement.  As  an 
international  community,  we  must  now  take  action 
to  implement  those  commitments  if  the  destruction  I 
discussed earlier in my statement is to be addressed.
In recognition of the fact that our citizens are our 
most precious resource, we have been resolute in taking a 
path of development that is people-centred. Our national 
policy framework aligns naturally with the philosophy 
guiding the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
and that has facilitated our implementation efforts. The 
Prime Minister of Barbados has clearly emphasized the 
priority  that  Barbados  accords  the  implementation  of 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including 
by  appointing  a  permanent  secretary  in  his  office 
with  a  mandate  and  special  responsibility  to  lead  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda at the national level.
Barbados  has  been  a  consistent  and  vocal 
advocate  for  the  treatment  of  SIDS  as  a  special  case 
for  sustainable  development  because  of  their  inherent 
natural vulnerabilities. There is a pressing need for the 
international community to address the specific needs 
and  interests  of  SIDS  in  a  holistic  manner.  They  will 
also need effective multisectoral partnerships to assist 
them in implementing the SDGs.
Barbados  welcomes  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  to  focus  international  attention  on 
challenges  to  our  oceans  and  on  encouraging  the 
international  community  to  take  meaningful  steps  to 
protect the marine environment. I was pleased to head 
the  Barbados  delegation  to  the  Ocean  Conference  in 
June,  and  I  am  committed  to  ensuring  our  continued 
active participation on the issue. Barbados is interested 
in  working  with  United  Nations  agencies  and  other 
international  partners  to  develop  an  ocean  economy 
trade strategy, as well as effective systems for managing 
our fish stocks.
Barbados  has  built  an  enviable  record  on  the 
basis  of  its  promotion  of  social  development.  Since 
our  independence,  successive  Administrations  have 
committed  to  targeted  social  policies  focused  on  the 
14/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
people  of  Barbados.  Substantial  investment  has  been 
made in sectors such as education and health in order 
to develop a skilled, healthy and productive population. 
The  result  of  that  investment  has  been  a  significant 
improvement  in  Barbadians’  quality  of  life  over  the 
years,  borne  out  in  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme’s  Human  Development  Index  and  other 
indices that focus on transparency, corruption, gender 
balance and human rights, among other things.
Promoting  and  protecting  the  human  rights  of  all 
Barbadians are primary concerns for the Government 
of Barbados. That is in keeping with our commitment 
to a human rights-based approach to development and 
our adherence to the principles of good governance and 
the rule of law, as well as to ensuring that our people 
have  the  highest  levels  of  civil,  political,  economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights.  We  pay  special  attention 
to  the  rights  of  the  vulnerable,  including  children, 
women  and  persons  with  disabilities.  With  regard  to 
the rights of persons with disabilities, my Government, 
together with civil society, continues to make progress 
in  promoting  their  full  integration  into  mainstream 
society.  Barbados  wishes  to  participate  more  fully  in 
the activities of the international community on issues 
of  inclusiveness,  and  are  therefore  pleased  to  present 
Ms. Kerryann Ifill as a candidate for membership of the 
Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
for  the  2019-2022  term.  Senator  Ifill  is  the  youngest 
President of the Senate ever appointed in Barbados, the 
first female and the first person with a disability ever to 
hold that office, and her candidature has been endorsed 
by the Caribbean Community.
The Caribbean Community has been at the forefront 
of  United  Nations  initiatives  to  address  the  problem 
of  non-communicable  diseases.  During  this  session, 
Barbados  will  work  with  regional  and  other  partners 
to  bring  a  greater  focus  to  the  growing  challenge  of 
childhood obesity, a serious problem that could become 
the next major development challenge. Barbados looks 
forward  to  the  convening  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
third  high-level  meeting  on  non-communicable 
diseases, scheduled for next year. I encourage Member 
States  to  participate  actively  in  it,  as  it  will  be  an 
invaluable opportunity to strengthen our action on this 
important issue and move closer to our goal of improved 
health for our peoples.
Barbados  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
once again express its deep concern about the possibility 
of  its  being  penalized  for  any  success  that  it  may 
achieve in its development efforts. Our categorization 
as  a  middle-income  country,  with  the  concomitant 
restrictions on our access to international development 
assistance  and  concessionary  financing,  is  unfair 
and  does  nothing  to  advance  the  cause  of  sustainable 
development. We reiterate our call to the international 
community  to  create  an  enabling  global  environment 
and  partnership  for  development.  Countries  such  as 
mine require assistance in building economic resilience; 
we do not need challenges such as those presented by 
de-risking, blacklisting and indebtedness.
Transnational crime is a major threat to international 
peace and security. It can take many forms — trafficking 
in  illegal  drugs,  trafficking  in  persons,  the  illegal 
transfer of small arms and light weapons, and money-
laundering.  All  present  significant  threats  to  our 
security,  and  Barbados  reiterates  its  commitment  to 
protecting  the  security  of  its  people.  We  will  remain 
actively engaged in cooperative mechanisms aimed at 
confronting and addressing such challenges.
Barbados  welcomes  the  convening  of  the  third 
Conference of States Parties to the Arms Trade Treaty 
(ATT). We encourage all States parties to take action 
to  implement  the  Treaty  and  we  further  acknowledge 
the  nexus  between  the  ATT  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  and  their  contribution  to  the 
promotion of peaceful and inclusive societies.
The  long-standing  economic  embargo  on  Cuba 
continues  to  be  a  cause  for  serious  concern  on 
Barbados’s  part.  We  join  the  overwhelming  majority 
of States Members of the United Nations in opposing 
that  unilateral  action  and  encourage  constructive 
engagement between the two sides.
to 
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize Barbados’s 
unwavering  commitment 
the  United  Nations 
and  the  principle  of  multilateralism.  If  we  are  truly 
committed to a decent life for all, people everywhere 
must be heard, including those in small States such as 
Barbados. We agree that there is need for reform in the 
United  Nations  system.  However,  even  as  the  United 
Nations is working to reform, and thereby better equip 
itself to respond to today’s global challenges, due care 
must be taken to ensure that the process is inclusive and 
transparent.  No  Member  State,  particularly  the  most 
vulnerable,  should  be  excluded  in  the  restructuring 
process.  Barbados  supports  the  view  that  a  spirit  of 
cooperation and dialogue should be the foundation for 
our  interaction  at  the  multilateral  level.  Cooperation 
17-29728
15/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
and dialogue represent the best means of achieving our 
international goals and objectives.
The Acting President: I now call on His Highness 
Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  the 
United Arab Emirates.
Sheikh Al Nahyan (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): I would like to begin by congratulating the 
President on his leadership of the General Assembly at 
its  seventy-second  session.  We  are  confident  that  his 
deep experience in international affairs will contribute 
to the Assembly’s success, and we stand ready to provide 
him with all the support and cooperation he may need. 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, for his stewardship of the previous session.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express 
my country’s appreciation for the tireless efforts of the 
Secretary-General  to  reform  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations in conflict prevention and the achievement of 
peace and security. We fully support his vision, which 
requires the international community to cooperate more 
closely on existing and emerging global challenges.
The  foreign  policy  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
is guided by principles consistent with the Charter of 
the United Nations and the provisions of international 
law —  a  spirit  of  partnership,  support  for  the  rule  of 
law, good neighbourliness and non-interference in the 
internal affairs of other States. They lead us to support 
a  stronger  role  for  the  United  Nations,  along  with 
reform of its entities and systems, so that it can fulfil its 
mandate  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security 
and help countries achieve development and prosperity.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  works  hard  and 
responsibly within its region and beyond to promote the 
stability and development of Arab countries and tackle 
the destruction wrought in our region by wars that have 
left  total  devastation  in  their  wake.  We  see  security 
and stability as key to the advancement of nations and 
peoples,  a  promising  future  for  younger  generations 
and a decent life for all. Our collective priority must be 
to promote peace and stability.
Despite serious regional and international efforts, 
our  region  continues  to  suffer  from  crises  whose 
causes  include  extremism  and  terrorism,  persistent 
interference  by  States 
internal 
affairs, aggressive and expansionist policies driven by 
hegemonic ambitions, and regimes that seek influence 
in  one  another’s 
by providing support to extremist and terrorist groups, 
with the goal of undermining Governments’ legitimacy. 
We must protect that legitimacy and prevent the spread 
of  chaos  and  conflict  throughout  the  region  and  the 
world. These crises have had enormous costs in terms 
of  human  life,  the  displacement  of  millions  and  the 
destruction  of  infrastructure.  If  the  situation  persists, 
it will generate only more violence and devastation and 
deplete economic and cultural resources, not just in our 
region  but  all  over  the  world.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
we as an international community have achieved great 
progress  in  confronting  security  and  humanitarian 
threats,  but  more  can  be  done  to  restore  stability  in 
the  Arab  world.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  therefore 
believes that we should take the following initial steps 
in the region.
First,  we  should  safeguard  the  progress  that  has 
already  been  made  on  development  and  counter  any 
hindrances  to  our  collective  peacebuilding  efforts,  or 
we will be reduced solely to managing conflicts. That 
applies particularly to Libya, Syria, Yemen and Somalia, 
countries  where  comprehensive  political  solutions  are 
possible and stability can be restored. But that can be 
achieved only if we end external interference in Arab 
affairs and suppress all forms of support to extremist 
and terrorist groups. In that regard, we support United 
Nations  efforts  to  bring  the  parties  to  those  conflicts 
to the negotiating table and to achieve comprehensive 
political solutions to the crises in our region.
Secondly, we must unite in firm and wholehearted 
rejection  of  extremism  and  terrorism  in  all  their 
manifestations.  That  is  the  only  way  to  confront  and 
eradicate  those  scourges.  We  believe  that  the  Arab-
Islamic-American  summit  in  Riyadh  was  historic  by 
any  standard.  It  attracted  an  unprecedented  level  of 
attendance at the highest levels, including the important 
participation of the President of the United States. Its 
outcome demonstrated that the Arab and Islamic world 
has taken a firm stand against the ideological roots of 
terrorism. We believe that, while eliminating this threat 
from our Arab region is a difficult task, the campaigns 
to liberate such ancient and storied Arab cities as Mosul 
in Iraq and Mukalla in Yemen from the grip of terrorist 
organizations have shown that we can achieve a great 
deal  if  we  work  together  in  combating  extremism 
and terrorism.
Thirdly, we must take collective action to identify 
countries  that  support  and  finance  terrorism  and 
hold  them  accountable.  That  is  why  the  United  Arab 
16/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
Emirates,  together  with  its  close  allies  the  Kingdom 
of  Saudi  Arabia,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  and  the 
Arab Republic of Egypt, has taken measures aimed at 
stopping Qatar’s support for extremism and terrorism 
and forcing it to abandon policies that have destabilized 
the region. We are committed to protecting our national 
interests,  the  security  of  the  Arabian  Gulf  and  the 
stability  of  our  region.  The  alliances  between  certain 
parties  in  our  region  with  organizations  or  entities 
whose goal is to undermine peace and security in the 
Arab  region  and  the  world  are  unacceptable.  That  is 
a gamble in which we will all be losers. Let us stand 
united against those who finance, promote and justify 
extremism and terrorism. We have a clear choice, and 
there is no alternative to combating terrorism in all its 
manifestations  and  facing  down  all  its  perpetrators, 
without  exception.  We  must  have  zero  tolerance  for 
those who spread violence, fear and destruction among 
innocent people or provide support and safe havens to 
terrorist groups. Together with its friends in the region, 
my country has therefore taken sovereign measures, in 
line  with  international  law,  with  a  view  to  protecting 
Arab  security  and  standing  against  Qatar’s  support 
to terrorism.
Fourthly, we must promote compassion, tolerance 
and  inclusion,  because  today  more  than  ever  the 
Arab  region  needs  those  values  in  order  to  counter 
the  misleading  messages  and  ideologies  spread  by 
extremists  and  terrorist  groups,  especially  through 
social media. My country is working with regional and 
international partners to establish mechanisms that can 
remind our young people of our shared human values 
and  counter  the  rhetoric  of  terrorism.  Specifically, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  has  established  and  hosts 
specialized  institutions  such  as  the  Sawab  Centre, 
the  Hedayah  International  Centre  of  Excellence  for 
Countering Violent Extremism and the Muslim Council 
of Elders, whose purpose is to demonstrate the peaceful 
nature of our Islamic religion and constitute a forum for 
promoting peace in Muslim societies. We have learned 
from  experience  that  we  must  expose  extremism  and 
terrorism  and  the  rhetoric  surrounding  them  in  order 
to defeat them intellectually and provide an alternative 
narrative based on the principle of peaceful coexistence 
and  tolerance.  At  the  same  time,  such  institutions 
promote  a  culture  of  peaceful  coexistence  and 
tolerance. It is regrettable, however, that some countries 
are funding media platforms that encourage violence, 
incite  hatred  and  sectarianism  and  provide  a  forum 
for the murderous ideologies of terrorism. History has 
repeatedly shown that catastrophic consequences await 
those who follow such paths.
Our  international  efforts  to  achieve  peace  in  our 
region will not be successful if we fail to end the Israeli 
occupation of Palestinian and Arab territory, which has 
continued for seven decades. The situation makes young 
people  vulnerable  to  exploitation  by  terrorist  groups 
that claim that they are fighting only for liberation and 
to realize their aspirations.
Iran’s hostile and expansionist policies continue to 
be the common factor in all the crises that our region 
has  experienced,  and  a  real  obstacle  to  any  concrete 
progress  in  resolving  them.  Iran  interferes  in  the 
internal affairs of other States and arms and supports 
terrorist  groups  such  as  the  Houthis  and  Hizbullah, 
as  well  as  groups  and  cells  in  Iraq,  Syria,  Yemen, 
Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Kuwait. Iran has 
not only blatantly violated the principle of sovereignty 
but has continued to exploit the crises in the Arab world 
in  order  to  undermine  regional  security  and  incite 
and  fuel  conflict.  It  must  realize  that  only  peaceful 
coexistence,  based  on  mutual  respect  for  sovereignty, 
is a viable basis for harmonious relations in the region.
From this rostrum, we reaffirm our firm position 
on the issue of and our legitimate right to sovereignty 
over the three islands of Greater Tunbs, Lesser Tunbs 
and Abu Musa, which Iran has occupied in violation of 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations. 
We will not abandon our demand that Iran return the 
occupied  islands  to  their  rightful  owners,  through 
voluntary  or  other  peaceful  means  and  in  accordance 
with  the  resolutions  that  have  been  adopted  in  that 
regard,  together  with  the  rulings  of  the  International 
Court of Justice.
Two  years  have  passed  since  the  signing  of  the 
nuclear  agreement  with  Iran,  with  no  sign  of  change 
in  its  hostile  behaviour.  It  continues  to  develop  its 
nuclear  programme  and  violates  the  letter  and  spirit 
of  the  agreement.  We  therefore  support  enhanced 
controls  on  Iran’s  nuclear  programme  and  continued 
assessment  of  the  agreement  and  its  provisions.  We 
view  North  Korea’s  similarly  provocative  behaviour, 
through  its  continued  development  of  its  nuclear 
programme  and  ballistic  missiles,  as  having  only  one 
purpose  —  acquiring  further  destructive  power  with 
which to threaten peace and stability in its region and 
the rest of the world. Iran and North Korea’s aggressive 
policies are not consistent with their membership in an 
17-29728
17/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
international  organization  whose  primary  concern  is 
the maintenance of international peace and security.
If  we  are  to  restore  security  in  our  region  and 
protect  our  peoples  from  conflicts  and  extremism, 
we  must  make  development,  in  both  its  human  and 
strategic dimensions, our top priority. We must create 
opportunities  and  hope  for  younger  generations  so 
that  they  can  look  forward  to  a  better  tomorrow  with 
optimism  and  confidence.  My  country  is  committed 
to  achieving  economic  and  human  progress  and  has 
contributed to rehabilitation and reconstruction projects 
in conflict-affected countries in order to enable them to 
restore security and stability.
We  continue  our  humanitarian  approach 
to 
alleviating  the  suffering  of  refugees.  We  support 
refugees internationally and regionally, with a view to 
protecting them and improving their living conditions 
by providing humanitarian and development assistance. 
However, we would like to stress that managing crises 
by providing such assistance alone is not a sustainable 
solution if we fail to address their root causes. In that 
regard,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the  importance  of 
ensuring that the United Nations can arrive at solutions 
to  humanitarian  and  political  crises  and  address  their 
grave  implications,  with  a  particular  focus  on  recent 
acts  of  violence  and  ethnic  cleansing  such  as  have 
been  committed  in  Myanmar  against  the  Rohingya. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  condemns  the  violence, 
displacement and collective punishment that have been 
visited  on  the  Rohingya  and  will  continue  to  provide 
them with assistance in order to reduce their suffering.
In  that  context,  I  should  also  mention  the  Houthi 
rebels’ obstinate rejection of a political settlement to the 
crisis and the humanitarian initiatives in Yemen, which 
is preventing progress from being made on resolving the 
issue. We will nonetheless continue to work diligently 
and with determination on the political and humanitarian 
processes in Yemen, alongside our friends and brothers 
and under Saudi Arabia’s wise leadership, with the goal 
of addressing the humanitarian and development needs 
of the Yemeni people, especially women and children, 
and with a view to restoring stability there.
The United Arab Emirates believes that by looking 
to  the  future,  promoting  human  values,  working 
to  achieve  human  development  and  responding  to 
the  aspirations  of  young  people,  we  can  create  the 
foundations for further development and prosperity. My 
country has moved beyond the stage of establishing its 
infrastructure and fulfilling basic needs, including by 
providing health, nutrition and education services, and 
has  adopted  a  model  based  on  the  principles  of  good 
governance and values of tolerance and on its vision for 
building a contented society. We have also created a safe 
environment that can enable women and young people 
to fulfil their dreams and ambitions while engaging in 
their country’s development. As a result, we have been 
able to pioneer innovations and other groundbreaking 
achievements  and  have  become  a  beacon  of  hope  for 
younger  generations  throughout  the  region.  We  are 
cognizant  that  our  greatest  challenge  is  to  make  our 
development sustainable and prepare ourselves for the 
post-oil era. That will be vital to our survival.
The United Arab Emirates considers its values and 
principles to be a human and historic legacy celebrated 
and passed on by one generation to another. We have 
therefore declared 2018 the year of Zayed, in memory 
and  recognition  of  the  achievements  of  the  founding 
father  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  with  the  aim 
of enshrining his values as we continue his journey to 
build and advance our nation.
We stand at a historic juncture. On the one hand, we 
have those who pursue peace, development, modernity 
and the future, while on the other we have those who 
have chosen darkness, destruction, sabotage and chaos. 
In that essential and just confrontation, we must stand 
united. Our goal must be the eradication of extremism 
and terrorism and the elimination of the forces that are 
tearing our region apart. We will then have a clear path 
towards a brighter future that is full of hope.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Tsend Munkh-Orgil, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Mongolia.
Mr.  Munkh-Orgil  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  I 
join previous speakers in expressing our solidarity and 
sympathy with the Government of Mexico and its people 
and with the Caribbean countries and the United States, 
which have all been hit by devastating natural disasters 
in the past few days. Natural disasters across the globe 
have  become  more  frequent,  and  their  consequences 
even  more  catastrophic.  By  some  calculations,  their 
numbers  have  quadrupled  worldwide  since  1970.  The 
need  for  better  national  and  local  readiness,  and  for 
stronger  regional  and  international  cooperation,  is 
growing.  As  part  of  those  efforts,  Mongolia  will  host 
an Asian ministerial conference in July 2018 aimed at 
18/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
Mongolia 
has 
exposed 
implementing the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk 
Reduction more effectively.
been 
to  multiple 
environmental challenges as a result of climate change, 
including  desertification,  drought,  land  degradation 
and wild forest fires. The main goals of the Government 
action  plan  for  the  period  2016  to  2020  are  therefore 
preserving  a  balanced  ecosystem,  protecting  natural 
resources  and  ensuring  their  appropriate  use  and 
rehabilitation, and promoting green economic growth. 
All  of  us,  developed  and  developing  nations  alike, 
are  committed  to  working  together  to  address  newly 
emerging  issues  induced  by  climate  change.  For  its 
part,  Mongolia  has  developed  its  intended  nationally 
determined contribution and will work to implement its 
target of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 14 per 
cent by 2030.
The theme of this year’s general debate, “Focusing 
on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for 
all  on  a  sustainable  planet”,  captures  the  main  thrust 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
If  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  are 
implemented,  they  will  transform  our  world.  But  as 
important  as  the  SDGs  are,  we  should  not  overlook 
the compelling need to fine-tune the overall structure 
for  their  implementation  at  the  national,  regional  and 
global levels. An important step in that direction was 
taken  at  the  July  meeting  of  the  High-level  Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development.  Mongolia  fully 
supports  the  Forum’s  declaration,  which  emphasizes 
the importance of fostering peaceful, just and inclusive 
societies  as  well  as  empowering  vulnerable  people 
through collective action.
sustainable  development  agenda 
My  country  was  one  of  the  first  to  adopt  the 
SDGs.  In  February  2016,  our  Parliament  approved 
Mongolia’s 
for 
2030.  It  envisages  Mongolia  becoming  an  upper-
middle-income country by 2030, eradicating poverty in 
all its forms while preserving an ecological balance and 
strengthening democratic governance. In parallel with 
the  17  SDGs,  Mongolia’s  Vision  2030  integrates  the 
three  pillars  of  development  —  economic,  social  and 
environmental.  We  have  mainstreamed  its  goals  into 
our Government action plan for 2016 to 2020 and other 
relevant programmes.
Among  global  development  priorities,  the  special 
needs  of  landlocked  developing  countries  are  a  top 
priority  for  Mongolia.  According  to  World  Trade 
Organization (WTO) estimates, landlocked developing 
countries’  trade  costs  amount  to  applying  a  260  per 
cent tariff to international trade, and the Office of the 
High  Representative  has  concluded  that  on  average, 
such countries’ development is 20 per cent lower than 
it  would  be  if  they  were  not  landlocked.  Mongolia  is 
committed to the effective implementation of the Vienna 
Programme  of  Action  for  Landlocked  Developing 
Countries for the Decade 2014-2024, along with other 
landlocked  developing  countries.  It  is  gratifying  to 
note  that,  with  10  required  ratifications  already  in 
place, 
the  multilateral  agreement  establishing  an 
international think tank for countries such as ours will 
enter into force on 6 October. The Ulaanbaatar-based 
international think tank has already begun its research 
activities,  thanks  to  the  financial  contributions  of 
the  Mongolian  Government  and  other  partners.  Once 
fully  operational,  it  will  further  support  landlocked 
developing  countries  in  their  implementation  of  both 
the Vienna Programme of Action and the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
Enhancing  connectivity  is  an  urgent  priority  that 
all  landlocked  developing  economies  share.  Mongolia 
acceded  to  the  WTO’s  Trade  Facilitation  Agreement 
in  2016.  We  value  the  potential  of  its  article  11,  on 
freedom of transit for reducing trade costs and boosting 
trade  for  landlocked  developing  countries,  which  can 
help  us  integrate  into  global  value  chains  and  make 
the  transition  from  landlocked  to  land-linked  status. 
In order to further improve market access to its main 
trading  partners,  Mongolia  is  studying  the  feasibility 
of free trade agreements with the Eurasian Economic 
Union, the People’s Republic of China and the Republic 
of  Korea.  An  economic  partnership  agreement  is 
already in place with Japan.
In  order  to  enhance  regional  integration  in  our 
immediate  region  of  North-East  Asia,  Mongolia 
is  actively  engaged  with  its  neighbours  on  transit, 
transportation  and 
infrastructure  development.  In 
July  2015,  the  Presidents  of  Mongolia,  China  and 
Russia  signed  an  agreement  to  develop  a  programme 
on  the  China-Mongolia-Russia  economic  corridor.  It 
will  focus  on  the  implementation  of  joint  projects  to 
increase  trade  turnover,  ensure  competitiveness  in 
goods supply, facilitate cross-border transportation and 
develop  infrastructure.  In  August,  we  agreed  on  our 
priority projects, and we are in the process of setting up 
mechanisms to coordinate the actual implementation of 
the economic corridor.
17-29728
19/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
In  December  2016,  China,  Mongolia  and  the 
Russian  Federation  signed  an 
intergovernmental 
agreement  on  international  road  transport  along  the 
Asian  highway  network,  marking  another  major  step 
in  trilateral  cooperation.  Mongolia  is  keen  to  work 
together with our two neighbours and other partners to 
improve rail, road, air and energy networks and pipeline 
infrastructure, and to increase access to the sea.
Mongolia’s  State  energy  policy,  adopted  in  2015, 
set the ambitious goal of producing 30 per cent of its 
energy demands through renewable resources by 2030. 
Our  solar  and  wind  resources  are  estimated  at  7,000 
and 5,000 terawatts, respectively. With those resources, 
Mongolia  has  basically  an  unlimited  potential  for 
exporting  clean  energy  to  countries  in  our  region. 
We  are  working  with  our  partners  to  implement  the 
Gobi  Tech  and  Asian  Super  Grid  projects  to  supply 
renewable  energy  to  North-East  Asia.  They  offer 
countries in the region a wide range of economic, social 
and environmental benefits, including energy security, 
job  creation  and  the  reduction  of  carbon-dioxide 
emissions. We look forward to working with bilateral 
and multilateral partners on those important projects.
When the global community set out on the collective 
journey  towards  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  it  pledged  to  leave  no  one  behind.  The 
SDGs  have  made  the  reduction  of  inequalities  among 
people — including the disadvantaged, vulnerable and 
marginalized  —  a  clear  priority  for  the  international 
community.  Sustainable  social  development 
is  a 
prominent part of Mongolia’s Vision 2030 for the SDGs. 
It  sets  out  goals  aimed  at  ensuring  gender  equality, 
improving  the  quality  of  health-care  services  and 
access to them, creating safe, healthy living conditions 
for its citizens, providing everyone with a high-quality 
education, ending all forms of poverty and enlarging the 
middle-income class. But while we cannot achieve the 
timely and effective implementation of the sustainable 
development agenda without peace and security, peace 
is being threatened on a number of fronts.
Mongolia is deeply concerned about the escalating 
tension  in  North-East  Asia.  We  strongly  oppose  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s destabilization 
of  regional  security  by  conducting  repeated  nuclear 
tests  and  launching  ballistic  missiles  in  defiance  of 
the  international  community’s  will  and  in  violation 
of  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  As  a 
country  that  has  had  nuclear-weapon-free-zone  status 
for the past 25 years, Mongolia reiterates its principled 
position  that  the  Korean  peninsula  should  be  free  of 
nuclear  weapons,  and  we  urge  the  parties  concerned 
to refrain from any action that could heighten tensions 
in  North-East  Asia  and  to  work  to  resolve  the  issue 
through peaceful means. In our view, the only way to 
do so is through dialogue. One possible avenue for that 
could be the Ulaanbaatar Dialogue on Northeast Asian 
Security, which we initiated in 2013. We held its fourth 
International  Conference  in  Ulaanbaatar  in  June.  The 
Dialogue discusses not only security issues in North-
East Asia but also potential energy and environmental 
projects,  and  as  such  is  an  open  mechanism  that  can 
embrace  the  participation  of  every  country  in  North-
East Asia.
The  current  tensions  have  only  deepened  the 
concerns we all have about nuclear weapons. Mongolia 
welcomed  the  Assembly’s  adoption,  on  7  July,  of  the 
Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. So long as 
nuclear weapons exist, the risk of their use will persist. 
The only guarantee of the non-use of nuclear weapons is 
their total elimination. Pending the achievement of that 
ultimate goal, it will be critical to ensure the entry into 
force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty as 
soon as possible, as well as vigorous implementation of 
the Action Plan agreed in the final document of the 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  We  must  also 
put an end to the protracted stalemate in the Conference 
on Disarmament.
Terrorism  continues  to  pose  a  grave  threat  to 
international peace and security, and terrorist activities 
around  the  globe  remain  unabated.  We  commend  the 
Secretary-General’s  establishment  of  a  new  United 
Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism to provide strategic 
leadership for global counter-terrorism efforts.
In  the  twenty-first  century,  it  is  disheartening  to 
see  the  world  facing  the  largest  refugee  crisis  since 
the  Second  World  War.  An  unprecedented  number 
of  people,  including  the  Rohingya  Muslims,  have 
been  forced  to  flee  their  homes.  The  horror  of  the 
human  tragedy  that  has  unfolded  during  such  forced 
displacements  must  stop.  The  current  humanitarian 
emergencies  require  comprehensive  responses  that 
should include three elements — ensuring dignity for 
refugees, supporting host countries and addressing the 
root causes of the problem. It is the shared responsibility 
of  all  of  us  to  promote  the  safe  movement  of  persons 
and to respect international refugee law, human rights 
law and humanitarian law. Similarly, large movements 
20/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
of  migrants  require  equally  close  attention.  We  look 
forward  to  the  adoption  of  a  global  compact  for  safe, 
orderly and regular migration in 2018. We hope it will 
be  a  critical  tool  for  protecting  the  safety  and  human 
rights  of  all  migrants,  regardless  of  their  migratory 
status,  and  for  strengthening  global  governance  on 
international migration.
Today  the  role  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
is  growing  tremendously.  Mongolia  is  proud  to  be 
contributing  to  its  support  for  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In the 
past decade, Mongolia has dispatched more than 15,000 
Blue Helmets to a number of hotspots and is currently 
one  of  the  30  largest  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries  in  the  world.  Mongolian  peacekeepers  are 
known  for  their  dedication,  skills  and  community-
friendly behaviour in peacekeeping and reconstruction 
efforts. We intend to further enhance our contribution 
by  providing  engineering  and  special  units  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations.
As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we 
reaffirm  our  firm  commitment  to  eradicating  the 
death  penalty,  torture  and  other  kinds  of  inhumane 
and degrading treatment. Four days ago, together with 
Argentina and the European Union, we hosted a high-
level  event  to  launch  the  Alliance  for  Torture-Free 
Trade, a global alliance to end trade in products used to 
carry out torture and capital punishment.
Strengthening  democratic  and  open  societies 
governed by the rule of law is a long-standing priority 
for Mongolia. Accountable institutions, access to justice 
for everyone and the significant reduction of corruption 
are  all  key  ingredients  of  sustainable  development  as 
envisaged in SDG 16.
At a time when the world is facing myriad global 
challenges,  it  is  unsettling  to  have  multilateralism 
questioned.  In  our  globalized  world,  no  State  can 
tackle  today’s  challenges  alone.  Global  issues  require 
global  solutions.  As  a  guarantor  of  security  for  all 
nations, large and small, the United Nations is a centre 
of  multilateralism,  but  we  must  enhance  its  role  as  a 
centre  of  effective  multilateralism.  We  commend  the 
Secretary-General’s vision of the United Nations as an 
instrument for a surge in diplomacy for peace, and his 
recent establishment of the High-Level Advisory Board 
on Mediation could not be more timely. Its 18 eminent 
members bring to it an unparalleled spectrum of skills 
and,  most  important,  the  credibility  that  is  essential 
for mediation.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  reaffirm  once  again  that 
Mongolia fully supports the Secretary-General’s vision 
for  reform  that  can  make  the  United  Nations  less 
bureaucratic and more efficient, productive and field-
oriented. After all, that is the only way that the United 
Nations  can  become  stronger  and  more  responsive  to 
the people it serves.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Aurélien Agbenonci, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Cooperation of the Republic of Benin.
Mr. Agbenonci (Benin) (spoke in French): I would 
like  to  deliver  the  following  message  on  behalf  of 
Mr. Patrice Talon, President, Head of State and Head of 
Government of the Republic of Benin.
“At the outset, I would like to reiterate my warm 
congratulations to the President on his election to 
lead  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second 
session and to assure him of my country’s support 
in the fulfilment of his mandate. I would also like 
to take this opportunity to thank his predecessor, 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  for  his  efforts.  I  would  like 
to  once  again  warmly  congratulate  Secretary-
General  António  Guterres  and  assure  him  of 
our  full  support  and,  lastly,  to  pay  tribute  to  his 
predecessor, Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
“I extend my condolences and my sympathies 
to the Governments and the peoples of the United 
States, France, Mexico and Sierra Leone and all the 
countries in the Caribbean that have been victims 
of recent natural disasters.
“As we move into the active phase of concrete 
implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  Benin  welcomes  the  theme  of  this  session 
of  the  Assembly,  entitled  ‘Focusing  on  people: 
Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a 
sustainable planet’. This theme corresponds closely 
to the guidelines in our Government’s programme 
of action, which places humankind and the planet at 
the centre of its concerns. Benin, as members know, 
is continuing its efforts to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals 
through  courageous  and 
necessary reforms.
“On  22  September  2016,  from  this  rostrum 
(see A/71/PV.14), I affirmed that mass poverty is a 
major threat to humankind, and on that occasion I 
17-29728
21/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
expressed the hope that the determination that led 
the world to adopt the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change  could  lead  us  to  set  up  a  comprehensive 
programme  for  the  eradication  of  mass  poverty. 
A  year  later,  that  appeal  is  more  relevant  than 
ever,  as  the  situation  in  our  countries  continues 
to  deteriorate.  Thousands  of  people  are  forced 
to  emigrate,  in  most  cases  at  risk  to  their  lives, 
with, as a corollary, many security and economic 
challenges for host countries, as well as significant 
environmental  consequences.  That  is  why  I  find 
this theme useful for the sharing of efforts to ensure 
sustainable human development and the promotion 
of a world that respects the environment.
“Benin  has  committed  to  addressing  youth 
unemployment as a means of eradicating poverty. In 
accordance with the road map of the African Union 
adopted by the Heads of State and Government in 
January 2016, the Government of Benin, in liaison 
with the United Nations, has drawn up a national road 
map to take into account the demographic dividend 
in Benin. The Government’s programme of action 
outlines a number of projects that, when realized, 
will strengthen sustainable human development.
into 
“The  programme,  known  as  Insurance  for 
Strengthening  Human  Capital,  fits 
that 
dynamic.  Its  operationalization  will  make  health 
insurance compulsory for all who live in Benin and 
will make it possible to establish a social protection 
system  for  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable. 
Our  programme  of  action  also  attaches  great 
importance to the preservation of the environment, 
and important environmental protection measures 
are included.
“I believe it is important to take this opportunity 
to  recall  Benin’s  proposal  on  15  November 
2016  —  during  the  solemn  high-level  session  of 
the  twenty-second  meeting  of  the  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  in  Marrakech, 
Morocco — to establish an international research 
centre  to  respond  effectively  to  the  effects  of 
climate  change  on  agriculture 
in 
conjunction  with  the  International  Institute  of 
Tropical  Agriculture,  based  in  Nigeria.  Our  hope 
is that the appropriate United Nations bodies will 
consider  the  implications  of  that  proposal,  which 
would  make  it  possible  to  ensure  the  sustainable 
development of agriculture in Africa.
in  Africa, 
“We are deeply committed to efforts to combat 
climate  change,  and  we  believe  that  the  Paris 
Agreement  is  an  indispensable  tool  for  achieving 
that.  In  that  regard,  my  country  supports  the 
various  initiatives,  particularly  those  of  France, 
aimed at getting the United Nations to put in place 
a third generation of fundamental rights that would 
be embodied in a global pact for the environment.
 “Our session opens at a time when the world 
is  facing  a  multitude  of  complex  challenges.  For 
decades the world has also seemed prone to crisis 
and  in  search  of  meaning.  In  many  parts  of  the 
world, peace is seriously threatened and the values 
of  freedom  and  the  rule  of  law  are  compromised. 
Violent extremism and radicalism weigh heavily on 
international security and stability.
“The assault on multilateralism, and therefore 
on  the  United  Nations,  is  part  of  that  pernicious 
trend that we must reject. That is why, in order to 
ensure  the  well-being  of  African  populations  and 
to address those problems effectively, the African 
Union needs reform more than ever. Benin strongly 
supports the ongoing reform process and very much 
wants it to be finalized as soon as ossible.
“Reform  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly 
the  Security  Council,  must  also  proceed  so  as  to 
increase  the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization, 
particularly in the area of peace and security. The 
composition of the Security Council must be revised 
in order to take into account the changes that have 
taken  place  on  the  international  scene  in  recent 
decades. We cannot call for respect for democracy 
in  all  countries  and,  paradoxically,  not  want  it  to 
be applied in reforming the Security Council. That 
reform,  we  hope,  will  make  it  possible  to  redress 
the  injustice  done  to  Africa,  the  only  continent 
not  represented  in  the  category  of  permanent 
members  of  the  Council.  Benin’s  position  on  this 
issue is consistent with that of Africa, as set out in 
the Ezulwini Consensus. The United Nations, and 
more specifically the Security Council, also needs 
a fresh start.
“The important challenges to be met include the 
settlement of the Palestinian question. The creation 
of  a  Palestinian  State  as  a  full  Member  of  the 
United Nations living in harmony with Israel will 
undoubtedly  result  in  a    dynamic  that  can  reduce 
tensions  in  that  region.  We  therefore  support  the 
22/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
efforts of the United Nations to achieve that goal, 
as  well  as  the  initiatives  to  meet  the  conditions 
likely  to  promote  an  international  conference  on 
the establishment in the Middle East of a zone free 
of nuclear weapons.
“I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  commitment  to 
strengthening  our  contribution  to  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  and  to  further  working  towards 
the  effectiveness  of  peacekeeping  operations. 
The  signing  in  Cotonou  on  8  February  of  the 
agreement  on  the  status  of  the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission 
in Mali fits into that dynamic.
“I do not wish to end my statement without once 
again affirming the deep attachment of my country, 
Benin,  to  the  United  Nations,  which  remains  a 
unique  framework  for  expression,  dialogue  and 
action,  enabling  us  to  cope  in  a  unified  manner 
with  the  immense  and  complex  challenges  of  our 
globalized world. Multilateralism is an ethical and 
political imperative for peace. Benin will continue 
to work alongside all other peoples to build a more 
just, inclusive and fraternal world order.”
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Pehin  Lim  Jock  Seng,  Minister  at  the  Prime 
Minister’s  Office  and  Second  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of Brunei Darussalam.
Mr.  Seng  (Brunei  Darussalam):  I  have  the  great 
honour  to  convey  the  warm  greetings  of  His  Majesty 
the  Sultan  and  Yang  Di  Pertuan  of  Negara  Brunei 
Darussalam to the General Assembly.
We  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his 
assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at 
this  session.  We  also  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, who presided over the Assembly with such 
dedication during the past year. I also wish to send my 
warm wishes to our Secretary-General, His Excellency 
Mr. António Guterres, and to praise him for his vision 
for strengthening our Organization.
Two years ago, Brunei Darussalam proudly joined 
everyone  in  embarking  on  an  extended  journey  to 
achieve a global set of ambitious goals for sustainable 
development. For us, that moment was meaningful. It 
signified our Organization’s relentless efforts to bring 
development and prosperity to all countries, regardless 
of their size and status in the world. It also showed us 
what unity can accomplish.
Our theme sums up who it is we are acting for — it 
is our people. It is therefore important to ensure that we 
fulfil our promise to them. It is a promise of a future 
where  their  hopes  and  dreams  for  better  livelihoods 
can  be  realized.  That  will  require  our  long-term 
commitment and significant investment.
In  Brunei  Darussalam,  this  means  more  than 
just  building  infrastructure  or  providing  for  basic 
needs.  It  also  means  raising  decent  people,  people 
who care for their society and are committed to their 
country’s  development  and  future.  That  calls  for  an 
inclusive  approach,  with  a  priority  of  focusing  on 
youth development. In today’s increasingly competitive 
environment,  Brunei  Darussalam  firmly  believes 
that  quality  education  is  the  key  to  building  a  new 
generation of highly skilled, innovative and confident 
young people.
According to the International Labour Organization, 
more  than  291  million  people  around  the  world  are 
estimated  to  be  unemployed  this  year.  Creating  job 
opportunities,  especially  for  our  young  people,  will 
therefore be crucial to raising their standard of living. 
In  Brunei  Darussalam,  we  are  continuing  our  efforts 
to  diversify  our  economy  and  advocate  free  trade 
bilaterally and regionally, with the aim of achieving a 
dynamic and sustainable economy.
While  pursuing  economic  progress,  we  should  be 
mindful  of  the  correlation  between  human  activities 
and climate change. That is where the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  can  galvanize  our  collective 
actions to bequeath a cleaner, healthier, safer and more 
sustainable  planet  to  our  future  generations.  Brunei 
Darussalam will continue to do what it can to contribute 
positively  towards  that  end.  To  reduce  greenhouse 
gas emissions, we are promoting efficiency in energy 
consumption  and  gradually  deploying 
renewable 
energies.  At  the  same  time,  conserving  our  forests  is 
a high priority, and that complements our multilateral 
efforts,  including  the  Heart  of  Borneo  initiative  and, 
recently,  the  Queen’s  Commonwealth  Canopy.  All  in 
all,  it  is  about  educating  our  people  to  care  for  and 
protect our planet. And strengthening global efforts in 
that area is also important.
For  human  and  economic  development  to  thrive, 
regional  and  international  peace  and  security  are 
crucial. That is the basic foundation of the success of 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) as it 
celebrates its fiftieth anniversary this year. So, for the 
17-29728
23/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
continued progress of South-East Asia and the region at 
large, it is the responsibility of all concerned to ensure 
a stable, safe and secure environment, one that is free 
of conflict, war or the threat of war. We also strive for 
stronger  engagement 
through  confidence-building, 
preventive  diplomacy  and  conflict  resolution  through 
peaceful  means.  It  is  through  such  efforts  and  close 
cooperation  among  ourselves  and  with  our  external 
partners  that  ASEAN  hopes  to  further  contribute  to 
global peace and development.
ASEAN’s  achievements  over  the  past  50  years  in 
ensuring  regional  peace  and  security  have  enabled 
Brunei Darussalam to pursue its development objectives 
in  a  peaceful  and  harmonious  environment.  We  are 
pleased that our country has consistently achieved very 
high ranking in the Human Development Index of the 
United Nations Development Programme.
As  the  well-being  of  our  people  continues  to  be 
central  to  the  nation,  we  are  mindful  of  the  negative 
impact of security threats, particularly with regard to 
our  work  to  ensure  a  sustainable  world.  Like  many 
others,  we  are  concerned  about  the  constant  threats 
of  terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  Sadly,  in  various 
parts  of  the  world,  the  casualties  resulting  from 
terrorist attacks continue to shock us all. We condemn 
such horrendous acts and convey our deepest sympathy 
and condolences to the families of the victims. We wish 
to reiterate that terrorism should not be linked to any 
particular race, religion, nationality or ethnicity.
In order to address those threats, it is important to 
comprehensively examine the root causes of terrorism, 
such  as  poverty,  marginalization  and  alienation, 
notably  among  youth.  It  is  our  hope  that  focusing 
on  education  and  youth  development,  creating  job 
opportunities, advocating the responsible use of social 
media  and  promoting  dialogue  among  different  faiths 
and civilizations will greatly help in our efforts to bring 
about positive change.
It  is  equally  important  to  instil  in  our  people’s 
hearts  and  minds  the  values  of  peace,  harmony, 
moderation  and  mutual  respect.  It  is  through  those 
values that we may be able to create societies that are 
resilient to destructive ideologies. Working closely with 
youth, religious leaders and local communities will be 
essential to help to realize that. We therefore welcome 
all  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  prevent 
and  eradicate  terrorism  and  violent  extremism,  in  all 
their forms and manifestations.
Also  of  great  concern  are  pandemic  diseases  and 
natural  disasters.  On  that  note,  I  would  like  to  join 
others  in  expressing  our  condolences  and  sympathies 
to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the  recent  natural 
disasters that have affected Mexico, Sierra Leone, the 
United States and countries in the Caribbean and South 
Asia. Given the destructive effects of natural disasters 
on any country’s development and well-being, Brunei 
Darussalam  values  the  work  of  all  relevant  agencies, 
including those of the United Nations, the World Health 
Organization and ASEAN. They provide us with means  
to gain expertise and knowledge on how to deal with 
the challenges posed by such threats.
As  we  seek  to  ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind, 
we should not forget the plight of those suffering from 
war,  conflict  and  occupation.  Like  everyone  else, 
Palestinians have hopes and dreams of being educators, 
doctors,  engineers,  artists,  athletes  and  innovators, 
which are all for the good of humankind. However, for 
half a century, foreign occupation has prevented many 
of them from achieving their full human potential for 
making  a  greater  contribution  to  global  development. 
Peace,  freedom,  justice  and  self-determination  are 
Palestinians’  fundamental  rights.  As  the  legitimate 
and  truly  representative  Organization  of  the  globe, 
the  United  Nations  has  a  moral  and  legal  obligation 
to  enforce  those  rights  and  ensure  accountability  for 
actions that contravene international law.
We  continue  to  count  on  the  United  Nations,  as 
well as all relevant parties, to find comprehensive and 
lasting peace and stability in the region. We must press 
on with all efforts to translate the growing international 
recognition  of  the  State  of  Palestine  into  positive 
changes on the ground, so that Palestinians can pursue 
sustainable development in their own homeland.
Brunei  Darussalam  looks  to  the  United  Nations 
to  address  pressing  issues  around  the  world.  It  is 
important for the United Nations to enhance its working 
relationship  with  its  network  of  partners,  including 
regional  organizations  such  as  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation, the Commonwealth and ASEAN.
In order to better reflect the needs and realities of 
the  twenty-first  century,  the  world  needs  a  stronger, 
more  effective  and  more  efficient  United  Nations.  To 
that  end,  we  support  our  Secretary-General’s  ideas 
for  reforming  the  United  Nations  and  repositioning 
our  Organization  to  focus  more  on  measures  for 
preventing  conflicts,  including  mediation.  We  believe 
24/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
such  endeavours  will  greatly  help  the  United  Nations 
optimize  its  work  and  resources  and,  above  all,  save 
lives,  safeguard  people’s  dignity  and  promote  peace 
and security around the world.
We want a United Nations that is fit for its purposes 
and  principles,  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of all 
Member States to ensure that the United Nations truly 
lives  up  to  its  name.  As  we  strive  for  a  better  future 
together,  we  hope  for  a  successful  United  Nations.  A 
successful United Nations benefits humankind. When 
humankind benefits, we all win.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Dato’  Sri  Anifah  Aman,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of Malaysia.
Mr. Aman (Malaysia): I congratulate Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I am 
confident that under his able stewardship, the General 
Assembly — the main deliberative and policy-making 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  —  will  see  substantial 
development and advancement in addressing the many 
challenges that our Organization faces today.
I  also  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  António 
Guterres  on  his  appointment  as  the  ninth  Secretary-
General.  I  assure  him  that  his  endeavour  to  make 
the  United  Nations  an  effective, 
relevant  and 
august  Organization  has  Malaysia’s  fullest  support 
and cooperation.
The  theme  of  the  Assembly’s  seventy-second 
session,  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and 
a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”,  is  most 
relevant  and  timely  as  we  work  collectively  and 
individually to achieve all 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) by 2030. That journey will not be easy. 
Some  have  even  proposed  that  it  should  be  the  only 
focus for the entire international community — to strive 
towards  ensuring  our  future  survival  in  an  inclusive 
manner. We must strengthen our resolve and fulfil our 
promise to each and every citizen of the world that no 
one will be left behind.
high  income,  inclusivity  and  sustainability.  Those 
pursuits  continue  to  resonate  well  with  the  three 
components  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  —  economic  growth,  social  needs  and 
environmental protection.
We have also adopted forward-looking development 
policies  through  the  Eleventh  Malaysia  Plan,  which 
spans the five years from 2016 to 2020, under the theme 
“Anchoring growth on people”. That development plan 
reaffirms the Malaysian Government’s commitment to 
a vision of growth anchored in the prosperity and well-
being  of  its  people,  while  protecting  the  environment 
and strengthening peace.
In  July,  Malaysia  presented  its  voluntary  national 
review at the High-level Political Forum on SDGs. The 
review, which reports the actions and measures taken by 
Malaysia to advance the implementation of the SDGs, 
is  testimony  to  Malaysia’s  continued  commitment 
to  achieving  the  2030  Agenda.  The  Government 
of  Malaysia  strives  to  ensure  that  each  and  every 
Malaysian has an equitable share in the prosperity and 
wealth of the country and that no one is left behind.
in  signing 
the  Treaty  on 
Earlier  this  week,  Malaysia  joined  other  Member 
States 
the  Prohibition 
of  Nuclear  Weapons.  We  are  convinced  that  the 
political  and  legal  impact  of  the  Treaty  will  steer  the 
international  community  collectively 
the 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  maintenance 
of  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  were  guided 
by  the  commitment  of  States  to  an  instrument  that  is 
legally sound and feasible to implement, one that sends 
a powerful political message that nuclear weapons are 
categorically unacceptable.
towards 
in  continuing 
threats,  particularly 
Malaysia  strongly  believes 
to 
strengthen  and  enhance  legislative  and  collective 
enforcement  capabilities  in  confronting  international 
security 
the  proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  specifically  to 
non-State  actors.  We  remain  steadfastly  committed 
to  our  international  obligations  in  the  fields  of 
disarmament and international security through various 
national, regional and international approaches.
On  that  basis,  Malaysia  has  always  oriented  its 
development agenda to accomplish that very promise. 
Sustainable  development  has  been  at  the  heart  of 
Malaysia’s  development  approach  since  the  1970s.  In 
2009,  the  Malaysian  Government  launched  its  new 
economic  model,  which  features  three  new  goals: 
In  that  connection,  Malaysia  reiterates  its  strong 
condemnation of the nuclear tests and missile launches 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which 
seriously  undermined  the  global  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to refrain from 
regime.  Malaysia  calls  on 
17-29728
25/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
conducting further nuclear tests and missile launches, 
to halt its nuclear and ballistic-missile programmes and 
to  comply  fully  with  its  international  obligations  in 
the interests of the maintenance of international peace 
and security. Malaysia joins other nations in stressing 
the  need  for  an  immediate  resumption  of  peaceful 
dialogue  and  negotiations  among  the  relevant  parties 
with a view to finding a durable solution to the long-
standing conflict.
from 
We are also seeing a convergence of new security 
threats  emerging 
irregular  migration  and 
transnational crime activities, which include terrorism, 
trafficking in persons, illicit drug trafficking, money-
laundering  and  cybercrimes.  The  threats  that  we  face 
today  have  an  increasingly  regional  and  international 
impact, affecting our economies and lives in ways that 
we  have  never  experienced  before.  For  that  reason, 
Malaysia  has  made  significant  efforts  to  improve  its 
legislation  and  enforcement  capabilities  by  adopting 
a holistic approach to preventing and combating those 
heinous crimes.
Sadly,  as  we  devote  our  attention  to  peace,  a 
decent  life  and  a  sustainable  planet,  there  are  people 
in the world who are suffering from horrifying crimes 
against humanity. In the past few weeks, we have seen 
a  recurrence  of  violence  instigated  by  a  delusional 
and desperate militant group of Rohingya in Rakhine 
state.  However,  the  subsequent  clearance  operations 
by Myanmar have claimed countless innocent civilian 
lives and caused more than 400,000 Rohingya to flee 
their  homes.  The  indiscriminate  violence  perpetrated 
against  the  Rohingya  during  those  operations  is  of 
grave concern to Malaysia and others. Such atrocities 
have unleashed a full-scale humanitarian crisis that the 
world simply cannot ignore and must be compelled to 
act on.
If the current situation is not addressed judiciously, 
the desperate people of Rakhine state will become easy 
prey to recruitment by extremists, for which prolonged 
frustration,  anger  and  deprivation  provide  a  fertile 
breeding ground. Although the Myanmar Government 
has given its repeated assurances that it will implement 
measures  to  resolve  the  issue,  the  recent  incidents  of 
violence have not assuaged our concerns or assured us 
that effective safeguards are being put in place on the 
ground. I therefore call on the Government of Myanmar 
to  end  the  violence,  stop  the  destruction  of  life  and 
property  and  allow  immediate,  unimpeded  access  for 
the delivery of humanitarian aid.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend  the  Government  of  Bangladesh  for  all  it 
has done in receiving almost half a million Rohingya 
refugees  over  the  past  three  weeks.  Sheltering  such  a 
huge number of refugees puts a strain on any country. 
Malaysia  dispatched  humanitarian  aid  to  Bangladesh 
on  9  September  and  will  do  more.  In  the  spirit  of 
compassion  and  humanity,  I  call  on  the  international 
community 
the  humanitarian  efforts 
in Bangladesh.
to  support 
is 
Our  collective  failure  to  find  a  solution  to  the 
Palestinian  question 
totally  unacceptable.  The 
situation  in  Palestine  remains  daunting  and  appalling 
as Israel continues to violate international law with its 
heavy-handed approach to the defenceless Palestinians. 
As  Israel’s  occupation  of  Palestinian  territory  marks 
its  fiftieth  year,  we  must  continue  to  intensify  our 
efforts  to  find  a  just  and  durable  solution  to  the 
Palestinian question.
Malaysia reiterates that any action by Israel aimed 
at  imposing  its  laws,  jurisdiction  and  administration 
on  the  holy  city  of  Jerusalem  is  illegal  and  totally 
unacceptable. We remain extremely concerned about the 
lack of accountability for the Israeli occupying forces 
and  the  ongoing  blockade  of  Gaza  and  the  resulting 
humanitarian crisis. We are extremely dismayed at the 
diminishing prospect of peaceful coexistence as Israel’s 
illegal settlement activities continue unabated.
The implementation of Security Council resolution 
2334 (2016), adopted on 23 December 2016, remains a 
challenge. In that regard, Malaysia reiterates its support 
for the work of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  and  its 
proactive  approach  regarding  the  need  for  a  written 
quarterly  report  by  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
resolution’s implementation. We urge the international 
community,  especially  Member  States,  to  continue 
to  firmly  support  that  vital  call.  If  we  continue  to 
enable the resolution to be deliberately weakened in a 
shameless  manner,  rendering  it  unimplementable,  we 
will be guilty of deconstructing any two-State solution.
Malaysia will continue to support the work of the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East. The plight of some 5 million 
registered  Palestine  refugees  must  not  be  ignored.  In 
view  of  the  Agency’s  weakening  financial  situation, 
we urge the international community to strengthen its 
26/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
commitment  to  providing  it  with  financial  and  other 
relevant assistance.
In  our  fight  against 
the  scourge  of  violent 
extremism, Malaysia would like to reiterate the ongoing 
urgency  of  taking  a  moderate  approach  to  countering 
the  propagation  of  extremism  and  radicalization. 
To  that  end,  Malaysia  reiterates  the  call  for  a  global 
movement  of  moderates  that  Prime  Minister  Najib 
Razak  made  in  2010,  with  the  aim  of  dousing  the 
flames of hatred and halting the influence of extreme 
and myopic ideas of intolerance, xenophobia and racial 
hatred, among others.
It  is  imperative  that  communities  of  different 
races, religions and cultures band together in seeking 
common  peaceful  aspirations  and  celebrating  their 
diversity, rather than being influenced by and enticed 
into extremist traps. Malaysia therefore looks forward 
to  bringing  the  initiative  for  a  global  movement  of 
moderates  to  the  United  Nations  through  a  draft 
resolution at this session. It is imperative that the voices 
of reason, tolerance and understanding drown out those 
that  glorify  the  extremism  that  sows  seeds  of  hatred 
among our communities.
If  it  is  to  carry  out  its  arduous  tasks,  the  United 
Nations  cannot  afford  to  stand  still  and  remain  idle. 
Since  taking  over  the  helm  of  the  Organization,  the 
Secretary-General,  together  with  the  Secretariat,  has 
initiated  various  efforts  to  make  it  more  efficient, 
effective, agile and fit for purpose. Malaysia commends 
the  dynamic 
the  Secretary-General 
through  his  various  reform  initiatives,  which  include 
reviewing  the  peace  and  security  architecture  and 
enhancing the overall development system and United 
Nations management reform, among others.
leadership  of 
Malaysia  is  of  the  view  that  any  major  reform 
initiative  that  might  include  cost-cutting  measures 
should not hamper or disrupt the Organization’s existing 
development  efforts  to  achieve  peace  and  a  decent 
life  for  all.  That  includes  peacekeeping  operations, 
peacebuilding,  and  development  programmes 
in 
developing  countries,  especially  in  countries  in  areas 
of  conflict.  I  wish  to  express  my  delegation’s  full 
cooperation,  support  and  commitment  to  working 
closely with the Secretary-General, all Member States 
and  various  stakeholders  towards  implementing  the 
reform initiatives.
Let  us  strengthen  our  resolve  in  fulfilling  our 
collective  responsibilities.  i  assure  the  Assembly  of 
Malaysia’s  continued  support  and  commitment  to 
the agenda of the United Nations and the work of the 
General Assembly.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Samura M.W. Kamara, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and  International  Cooperation  of  the  Republic  of 
Sierra Leone.
Mr. Kamara (Sierra Leone): I bring the Assembly 
fraternal  greetings  and  very  best  wishes  from  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Sierra  Leone.  President  Koroma  deeply 
regrets that he is unable to participate in the seventy-
second  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  due  to 
unavoidable circumstances. He has, however, instructed 
me to deliver the following message.
“I congratulate the President on his assumption 
of the responsibility for directing the work of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I 
would  like  to  assure  him  of  my  personal  support 
and that of my country throughout his tenure. Let 
me  also  congratulate  and  warmly  welcome  our 
new  Secretary-General,  Mr.  António  Guterres.  I 
commend and thank their predecessors, Mr. Peter 
Thomson and Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for their leadership 
and  outstanding  commitment  to  advancing  our 
collective  aspirations  and  energy,  maintaining 
global peace and security and achieving sustainable 
development  for  all,  as  well  as  for  their  concern 
regarding climate change.
“In March of 2018, the people of Sierra Leone 
will  go  to  the  polls  to  elect  their  new  leaders  in 
local  Government,  parliamentary  and 
judicial 
elections.  A  few  months  from  now,  my  second 
term  in  office  will  come  to  an  end,  and  I  will  be 
graciously  handing  over  power  to  Sierra  Leone’s 
next  democratically  elected  President.  We  have 
had  10  years  of  working  together,  10  years  of 
building  and  consolidating  peace  and  democracy, 
of  enjoying  the  atmosphere  of  a  peaceful  transfer 
of power, political party pluralism, a vibrant civil 
society and a critical media landscape. We are not 
yet where we want to be as a country, but with the 
sustained support of the international community, 
Sierra Leone is not where it was 10 years ago.
“Today, a country that was once regarded as a 
fragile  State  is  ranked  the  most  peaceful  in  West 
Africa and about the fourth most peaceful in Africa. 
We have raised our economy to become one of the 
17-29728
27/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
fastest  growing  in  Africa.  Even  when  we  were 
halted  and  derailed  by  the  Ebola  virus  outbreak, 
with  the  international  community’s  support,  we 
fought  hard,  and  once  again  we  are  registering  a 
positive economic outlook.
“As I look back on those 10 years, as I look back 
on that long and challenging path we have travelled 
together, as I prepare to step aside, I do so with a 
sense  of  pride,  a  sense  of  fulfilment  and  a  sense 
of satisfaction that we have played our parts in the 
rebuilding of our nation, in transforming lives and 
in giving hope to millions of people.
its 
for 
significant  contribution 
“Let  me  particularly  commend  the  United 
Nations 
to 
restoring  peace,  security,  stability  and  economic 
reconstruction in my country. I am happy to note 
that today Sierra Leone is described by the United 
Nations,  through  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
as  a  proud  storehouse  of  lessons  for  a  seamless 
transition  from  war  to  peace,  democracy  and 
stability.  Those  lessons  have  provided  us  with 
valuable  and  cost-effective  tools  for  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes and conflict prevention.
“We  have  always  been  more  than  ready  and 
willing to share those lessons with other countries 
in  a  similar  plight,  especially  countries  within 
our  small  g7+  group  of  post-conflict  countries, 
which  are  striving  to  leave  fragility  behind  and 
promote  resilience.  We  have  already  held  three 
highly  successful  and  widely  acclaimed  peaceful, 
free  and  fair  democratic  elections  following  the 
end  of  the  civil  conflicts.  Those  are  milestones 
that  significantly  demonstrate  our  exemplary 
performance  in  the  consolidation  of  peace  and 
security. The elections to be held will be no different 
in terms of transparency, fairness or credibility.
“The  choice  of  the  theme  for  this  session, 
‘Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet’, is apt and timely 
in  an  era  of  global  uncertainties  and  challenges, 
including the emergence of new threats that tend to 
undermine our efforts in the promotion of economic 
and social advancement of all peoples. For 72 years, 
through this Organization, we have combined our 
efforts  to  prevent  a  major  war  and  to  promote 
human  rights,  fundamental  freedoms,  justice  and 
equal  rights  for  men  and  women  of  all  races.  Yet 
we are faced with unprecedented global challenges 
“We  should 
therefore  generate 
of enormous proportions. The seemingly unending 
cycles of conflict and violence, the destructive and 
devastating impacts of climate change, the spread 
of terrorism and the largest refugee, migration and 
humanitarian  crises  in  recent  history  continue  to 
call into question the effectiveness of our present 
international  machinery,  as  well  as  our  ability  to 
promote sustainable peace and a decent life for all.
innovative 
ideas and credible mechanisms that will bring all 
conflicts  to  a  peaceful  end.  We  should  promote 
social  progress,  peace  and  security,  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms.  We  must  secure 
better  standards  of  life  for  humankind.  We  must 
remain  steadfast  in  our  commitment  to  building 
a  sustainable  planet  for  present  and  succeeding 
generations. This Assembly should, in that regard, 
reflect on reforms that will reinforce our collective 
obligation to upholding the purposes and principles 
on which our Organization was founded.
our 
collective 
commitment 
“The  General  Assembly  has  consistently 
reaffirmed 
to 
strengthening the role of mediation in the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  in  conflict  prevention 
and  resolution.  It  is  a  valuable  and  cost-effective 
tool.  It  is  Sierra  Leone’s  firm  belief  that  we 
must  continue  to  build  on  the  gains  made  in  our 
preventive diplomacy efforts, including heightened 
collaboration  with  each  other  and  among  our 
regional  organizations  and  actors,  making  use  of 
experiences  that  have  helped  us  achieve  relative 
international peace and security.
“In that regard, I am heartened by the powerful 
impetus  of  the  preferential  use  of  preventive 
diplomacy and mediation efforts in the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  by  the  United 
Nations system. The good offices of the Secretary-
General,  including  the  early-warning  system  and 
the  international  contact  groups,  are  important 
instruments  in  preventing  conflicts  and  must  be 
further strengthened to effectively respond to any 
crisis situation. The effective utilization of Chapter 
VI of the Charter therefore remains the best option 
for the Organization in the prevention and peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
“Obviously,  mediation  remains  a  powerful 
instrument for the prevention and settlement of armed 
conflicts and must be utilized to the fullest extent 
28/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
possible.  My  country  has  indeed  benefited  from 
mediation efforts under the auspices of the United 
Nations  and  the  Economic  Community  of  West 
African  States.  We  have  learned  from  experience 
that for mediation efforts to be fruitful, they must 
embrace such measures as the timely cessation of 
hostilities,  credible  ceasefire  agreements  and  the 
timely  deployment  of  peacekeeping  and  observer 
missions to be able to undertake and supervise the 
disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration  of 
ex-combatants and displaced persons.
“Furthermore, the role of regional organizations 
in  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  must  be 
further  strengthened  to  ensure  a  greater  response 
at  the  regional  level  in  implementing  preventive 
measures  such  as  early-warning  mechanisms. 
Regional organizations are usually better positioned 
to generate the necessary political will for conflict 
prevention within their regions.
“The role of the Peacebuilding Commission has 
been exemplary, and its experience, expertise and 
knowledge in preventing conflicts from escalating 
into violence or war, as well as in supporting post-
conflict endeavours, should be tapped into. In that 
regard, we encourage the sharing of the experiences 
gained and lessons learned through the engagement 
of the Peacebuilding Commission.
“As I have already stated, since I assumed the 
leadership  of  Sierra  Leone  almost  10  years  ago, 
the  country  continues  to  make  steady  progress, 
particularly in the priority sectors of infrastructure, 
human development, agriculture and food security, 
democracy, international relations, justice, human 
rights and inclusive governance, as outlined in my 
medium-term  development  plan,  the  Agenda  for 
Change,  followed  by  the  Agenda  for  Prosperity. 
Those  transformative  strategies  have  gone  a  long 
way  to  more  visibly  repairing  and  healing  the 
damage  and  scars  resulting  from  a  brutal  war, 
while also charting a path for achieving sustainable 
socioeconomic development and shared prosperity 
and,  more  particularly,  for  transforming  Sierra 
Leone  into  a  middle-income  country  by  the 
year 2025.
“Three  years  ago,  in  2014,  the  unexpected 
and  unprecedented  outbreak  of  the  Ebola  virus 
substantially  wiped  out  the  social  and  economic 
that  Sierra  Leone  had 
fabric  and 
the  gains 
painstakingly achieved over 10 years of progressive 
post-conflict  reconstruction  efforts.  Shortly  after 
being recognized as one of the countries with the 
highest  growth  rate  in  the  world,  our  economy 
plunged  very  sharply,  from  record  high  gross 
domestic  product  growth  rates  of  15.2  per  cent 
and 20.1 per cent, in 2012 and 2013, respectively, 
to  record  low  rates  of  4.6  per  cent  and  -21.7  per 
cent, in 2014 and 2015, respectively. The epidemic 
revealed  fundamental  systemic  weaknesses  that 
still  remained  to  be  addressed  in  post-conflict 
Sierra  Leone,  especially 
the  health-care 
system.  The  fight  to  end,  eradicate  and  prevent 
the recurrence of the Ebola virus was largely won 
through  strong  leadership,  community  ownership 
and national resilience.
in 
“While  we  were  on  the  verge  of  turning  the 
corner  in  our  post-Ebola  recovery  strides,  Sierra 
Leone  was  severely  hit  by  torrential  rainfall  in 
the  early  hours  of  14  August,  leading  to  flash 
flooding in several areas of the capital city, as well 
as the collapse of the hillside of Mount Sugarloaf, 
overlooking  Freetown  and  its  environs,  causing 
widespread  devastation.  The  impact  has  been 
penetrating and far-reaching, especially for women 
and children, who were most affected. More than 
500  lives  were  lost,  several  people  were  severely 
injured  and  traumatized,  more  than  600  remain 
missing, around 7,000 were rendered homeless and 
physical  property  and  assets  worth  an  estimated 
$30 million were lost.
“This year’s rainfall is the third in a series of 
heavy  torrential  rains  with  devastating  impact, 
mostly on vulnerable groups in our cities. Such rains 
displace  hundreds  of  people,  destroy  farmland, 
businesses and properties and cost lives.
“While  I  once  again  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank the international community for its support 
during  these  moments  of  grief  and  need,  let  me 
state  that  such  disasters  are  a  stark  reminder  that 
climate change is real. They also demonstrate the 
level  of  Sierra  Leone’s  vulnerability  to  climate 
change. I therefore reiterate Sierra Leone’s support 
for  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and 
urge  concerted  global  efforts  in  dealing  with  this 
immediate, real threat to humankind.
“Under  my 
leadership,  Sierra  Leone  has 
enhanced  political  stability  by  strengthening 
17-29728
29/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
their 
latitude 
to  deliver  on 
institutions and laying a basis for good governance 
by  allowing  those  institutions  sufficient  leverage 
and 
respective 
statutory mandates. My Government has recorded 
significant  milestones  in  the  areas  of  gender 
equality and women’s empowerment, as well as in 
promoting  youth  employment  and  empowerment. 
We have established a more stable and regulatory 
environment for investment and wealth generation, 
which  in  the  medium-  and  long-term  will  create 
employment  opportunities 
inclusive 
socioeconomic  development  of  young  people,  the 
disabled and women.
for 
the 
in  our  development 
“My  Government’s  programmes  for 
local 
Government  and  decentralization  have  provided 
greater  space  for  wider  and  deeper  community 
participation 
trajectory. 
Furthermore, the launch of the Open Government 
initiative  in  2008,  followed  by  our  membership 
of  the  Open  Government  Partnership  in  2014, 
has  together  created  an  effective  platform  for 
transparent governance and citizens’ empowerment, 
thereby  building  trust  and  confidence  between 
my  Government  and  the  people.  With  those 
developments, Sierra Leone is now on a solid path 
and will continue to consolidate its transition from 
war to peace and shore up democratic credentials, 
inclusive growth and a decent life for all.
“Learning from the Ebola virus outbreak, my 
Government has responded to the task of building a 
resilient health system to prevent, detect and respond 
to  any  public  health  threats  of  similar  nature. 
We  have  established  public-health  laboratories 
nationwide that have full capabilities to test for viral 
hemorrhagic  fevers,  including  Ebola.  The  floods 
and mudslides are pointing us to a greater emphasis 
on  the  environment,  particularly  regarding  land 
management,  reforestation,  affordable  housing, 
urbanization and upgrading slums.
“While we remain determined to accelerate the 
positive  transformation  of  Sierra  Leone,  ensuring 
that  Sierra  Leoneans  benefit  from  the  dividends 
of  our  well-earned  peace  and  democracy,  we 
look  forward  to  more  strategic  engagement  with 
our  partners 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  Sierra  Leone, 
especially  in  diversifying  our  economy,  with 
a  focus  on  agriculture,  fisheries,  tourism  and 
manufacturing industries, as well as on investment 
in  effectively 
implementing 
in  education  and  health.  Evidence  abounds  that 
in  those  resource-full  sectors  there  is  enormous 
economic  potential 
for  public-private  sector 
partnerships and for North-South, South-South and 
triangular  cooperation.  We  urge  our  partners  to 
join with us in tapping those potentials.
“As  coordinator  of 
the  African  Union 
Committee of Ten Heads of State and Government 
on  the  United  Nations  Security  Council  Reforms, 
I  would  like  to  end  my  remarks  by  reiterating 
Africa’s concern about the slow pace of the reform 
process.  We  have  heard  that  concern  expressed 
by  the  current  Chair  of  the  African  Union,  His 
Excellency  Professor  Alpha  Condé,  President  of 
the Republic of Guinea, as well as by several other 
Heads of State and Heads of Government.
“Beyond 
the  compelling  urge 
to  correct 
the  historical  injustice  done  to  Africa,  we  must 
thoroughly  reflect  on  the  current  geopolitical 
realities  that  generally  compel  the  reform  and 
modernization  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
particularly  the  Security  Council.  We  must  also 
reflect  on  the  continent’s  numerical  strength,  its 
growing economic power, its population dynamics 
and  its  increasing  role  in  the  multilateral  system. 
Against  that  background,  Africa’s  demand,  as 
articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte 
Declaration, is therefore even more legitimate and 
ought  to  be  redressed  and  treated  on  the  basis  of 
equity in the global governance system.
“As we look at the work that lies ahead, let us 
not  lose  sight  of  our  shared  obligation  to  ensure 
a  peaceful  and  secure  world  by  resolving  our 
differences,  including  national  and  international 
disputes,  through  constructive  dialogue.  We  must 
respect  and  prioritize  strengthening  the  existing 
mediation mechanisms provided in the Charter of 
the United Nations. I am convinced that the pace of 
global development and the achievement of peace 
and  security  will  significantly  accelerate  if  we 
appreciate the wisdom of redirecting resources from 
the  current  nuclear  arms  race  to  people-centred 
development.  That  will  benefit  humankind  more 
than a continuation of the ruinous competition for 
superiority.  It  will  also  facilitate  the  attainment 
of  our  desired  twin  goals  of  sustainable  peace 
and development.
30/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
“As  I  graciously  bow  out  as  President  of  my 
beloved country, I will be leaving office with the 
sincere  hope  that  the  successful  implementation 
of  the  priorities  and  programmes  that  I  have  laid 
out will enhance Sierra Leone’s attainment of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  I  also  hope  that 
the international community will continue to stand 
by the great and resilient people of Sierra Leone in 
the pursuit of our collective aspiration to become a 
middle-income country. It is my fervent hope that 
the current momentum and development trajectory, 
which  are  defined  by  transformative  strategies 
and  catalytic  actions,  will  be  maintained  through 
a  sustained  United  Nations  partnership  with  my 
successor. I therefore thank all of our development 
partners,  both  at  the  bilateral  and  multilateral 
levels, who have collaborated with us to support the 
strides that we have achieved during my tenure.”
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers in exercise of the right of reply, may I remind 
members that statements in the exercise of the right of 
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention 
and 5 minutes for the second, and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Ms. Ivanović (Serbia): My delegation would like to 
exercise its right of reply in response to the statement 
delivered  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania (see A/72/PV.15).
At  this  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  as  Member  States  work  to  address  and 
find  solutions  to  the  numerous  challenges  that  the 
international  community  faces,  let  me  underline  that 
the  consolidation  of  international  peace,  security  and 
stability continues to be a priority for the Republic of 
Serbia as well. To achieve those goals, my country has 
invested  the  greatest  possible  effort  in  strengthening 
regional  cooperation,  stabilization  and  reconciliation, 
for which it has been widely recognized and acclaimed. 
We therefor fully share the approach and vision of the 
Western Balkans working together.
During the general debate at this session, numerous 
dignitaries have underlined the importance of respecting 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all Member 
States. However, the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Albania again used the Assembly to call on Member States 
to recognize the independence of the Serbian southern 
province,  the  so-called  independent  State  of  Kosovo, 
contrary  to  Security  Council  resolution  1244  (1999), 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principles 
on which the Organization is based. Unfortunately, the 
Prime Minister of Albania also misled Member States 
through his contention that dialogue is being conducted 
between two States — Serbia and Kosovo — and not, 
as is the real situation, between Belgrade and Pristina, 
that is, the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government 
in the province.
Let  me  recall  that  all  outstanding  issues  within 
the  process  of  the  normalization  of  relations  between 
Belgrade  and  Pristina  are  being  addressed  within  the 
dialogue  conducted  in  Brussels,  with  the  facilitation 
of the European Union. Any unilateral act during the 
course of the dialogue will only undermine the process. 
Needless  to  say,  interventions  like  those  made  by 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Albania  today  may  jeopardize 
positive results of the dialogue and set back its progress 
in the future.
In  conclusion,  let  me  point  out  that  settling  the 
status  of  Serbia’s  southern  province  is  among  my 
Government’s  top  priorities.  We  have  demonstrated, 
time  and  again,  our  readiness  to  make  an  active 
contribution in the efforts to reach solutions that would 
be acceptable to all, taking into account the legitimate 
interests of all communities in Kosovo and Metohija.
Kosovo  is  not  an  independent  State  and  is  not  a 
Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Let  me  be  clear  and 
stress  once  again  that  Serbia  will  continue  to  use  all 
diplomatic  means  to  preserve  its  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity.
Mr.  Al-Kuwari  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  rejects  all  the  allegations  and  false  claims 
about  my  country,  the  State  of  Qatar,  that  we  heard 
earlier  in  the  statement  by  the  representative  of  the 
United Arab Emirates. Qatar is dealing with an illegal 
and  unjust  siege  that  violates  its  sovereignty  and 
national decision-making ability.
What we heard today in the Emirates statement is a 
continuation of the false claims and allegations started 
by the countries that are party to the siege, including the 
United Arab Emirates, in an attempt to defame the State 
of Qatar and damage its foreign policy and its relations 
with  friendly  countries.  The  siege  began  with  acts  of 
air  and  sea  piracy  and  has  included  electronic  crimes 
such  as  the  hacking  of  the  Qatar  news  agency.  Those 
allegations  and  false  claims,  which  have  been  going 
on for three months, have been accompanied by a full-
fledged siege that violates all the forms of cooperation 
17-29728
31/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
on  which  this  Organization  was  established.  They 
violate  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  human 
rights and a people’s right to self-determination. They 
violate good relations among States and humanitarian 
principles.  They  also  violate  the  charter  of  the  Gulf 
Cooperation Council.
Many  countries  have  objected  to  the  siege  and 
called  for  it  to  be  lifted.  Many  have  spoken  about  its 
negative effects. We have been able to deal with those 
unjust  measures  through  the  unity  of  our  people, 
our  standing  in  the  world  and  the  solidarity  that 
countries around the world have expressed so that we 
can  confront  the  challenges  together.  We  believe  that 
these  illegal  measures  impede  United  Nations  efforts 
to enhance cooperation among countries in facing our 
common challenges.
Despite the many attempts to defame the State of 
Qatar,  we  know  that  the  international  community  is 
aware of the aims of this campaign, and especially that 
the  countries  participating  in  the  siege  have  failed  to 
prove why they imposed it. They know that their claims 
are intended only to punish the State of Qatar because 
we are fighting for human rights, freedom of speech and 
the peaceful resolution of conflicts. They are trying to 
force the State of Qatar to change its position.
Qatar’s record in combating terrorism is known to 
all  in  the  United  Nations  and  to  our  partners  in  this 
fight.  It  is  better  than  the  record  of  those  who  are 
stating  anything  to  the  contrary,  and  is  illustrated  by 
our  participation  in  the  international  alliance  against 
terrorism  and  in  other  regional  and  international 
efforts to that end. The State of Qatar is also working 
through  bilateral  mechanisms  to  enhance  regional 
and  international  cooperation  on  fighting  terrorism 
and  cutting  off  its  sources  of  funding.  We  have 
implemented our international obligations pursuant to 
the relevant Security Council resolutions with regard to 
countering terrorism and ending its funding, whether by 
freezing assets, preventing subjects from travelling, or 
implementing other measures adopted by the Security 
Council. The State of Qatar will always be firm when 
it comes to implementing Security Council resolutions 
against terrorism.
In  conclusion,  we  want  to  state  that  we  are  all 
collectively responsible for respecting the purposes and 
principles of the Charter with regard to the sovereignty 
of countries, non-interference in countries’ affairs and 
respecting  human  rights.  We  believe  that  the  General 
Assembly is the most representative forum in the world 
and the best for defending the Charter and human rights 
and  international  law.  Instead  of  accusing  Qatar,  the 
Emirates  should  end  all  its  violations  of  the  Security 
Council’s resolutions on Libya. It should stop creating 
chaos,  launching  conflicts  and  pretending  to  fight 
terrorism in order to serve its own interests, knowing 
that that is leading to more terrorism as a result of their 
failed policies. We call on the international community 
to condemn those measures.
Mr. Idrizi (Albania): My delegation is taking the 
floor  in  response  to  the  statement  just  made  by  the 
representative  of  Serbia  in  reaction  to  the  statement 
of  the  Prime  Minister  of  Albania,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Edi Rama, this morning in the general debate (see 
A/72/PV.15). I wish I were not obliged to take the floor 
at this late hour, but I deem it important to say a few 
words to set the record straight.
The representative of Serbia questioned the call of 
the Prime Minister of Albania addressed to those United 
Nations Members that have not yet recognized Kosovo. 
Let  me  recall  that  Kosovo  has  been  an  independent 
State  since  2008  and  to  date  has  been  recognized  by 
114 Member States. In the course of almost a decade, 
Kosovo has established and strengthened its worldwide 
geopolitical  identity  and  has  proved  itself  to  be  a 
valuable contributor to peace, stability and cooperation 
in the region. Nowadays, Kosovo is a member and active 
participant  in  all  regional  initiatives  in  South-East 
Europe.  It  has  signed  a  Stabilization  and  Association 
Agreement with the European Union and, like all other 
countries  in  the  region,  is  working  towards  future 
European Union membership.
International recognition and the full participation 
of  Kosovo  in  all  regional  bodies  have  brought  clear 
benefits.  They  have  improved  the  overall  political 
atmosphere in the region, facilitated trade and economic 
relations  and  improved  the  mobility  of  people,  and 
young people in particular. We remain convinced that, 
based  on  that  record,  the  United  Nations  and  other 
international  organizations  would  only  benefit  by  the 
presence and contribution of Kosovo. That is why we 
firmly  believe,  as  Prime  Minister  Rama  stated  this 
morning, that
“recognizing Kosovo ... and helping Kosovo move 
forward  ...  [is]  a  direct  contribution  to  bettering 
the lives of Kosovo’s citizens and investing in the 
32/34 
17-29728
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.18
security and stability of the whole region and of all 
its countries, including Serbia” (A/72/PV.15, p. 20).
For  several  years,  Kosovo  and  Serbia  have  been 
engaged  in  a  dialogue,  facilitated  by  the  European 
Union  and  conducted  at  the  highest  levels.  That  has 
brought  the  two  countries  together  in  the  quest  for 
common  solutions  to  a  series  of  important  issues  for 
the  good  of  their  citizens.  We  support  that  dialogue 
and  encourage  both  countries  to  continue  to  work 
towards  full  normalization  of  their  relations  as  the 
best  investment  for  them,  one  offering  real  prospects 
towards reconciliation. That is what both Kosovo and 
Serbia need. That is what the whole Western Balkans 
must  achieve  in  order  to  build  its  present  and  design 
their future — a future in peace, a future in Europe.
Mr. Al Musharakh (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in  Arabic):  We  regret  the  fact  that  the  representative 
of the State of Qatar has once again sought to distract 
all  of  those  gathered  here  from  the  international 
commitments  that  his  country  should  be  upholding. 
Four countries have taken entirely legitimate measures 
against the State of Qatar, which claims to be combating 
terrorism,  but  in  point  of  fact  those  States’  decisions 
taken  in  their  genuine  efforts  to  fight  terrorism  are 
entirely  acceptable  under  international  law  and  duly 
take into account the serious violations committed by 
the Qatar, which finances terrorist organizations.
Our decision to break off relations with Qatar was 
not  a  difficult  one.  Our  decision  to  sever  diplomatic 
ties and relations was a direct response to Qatar’s own 
actions,  which  have  destabilized  the  region.  Qatar 
meddles  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  Arab  States, 
supports  radicalism  and  fosters  extremism  in  many 
countries in the Middle East. In point of fact, the State 
of Qatar is regularly violates international law and the 
decisions and resolutions of the Security Council. We 
shall  therefore  continue,  on  the  basis  of  the  decisions 
that we have already taken, to enact the measures that 
we have put in place because we have found no other 
way to protect ourselves from Qatar’s hostile actions.
Qatar  has  a  clear  choice.  It  can  either  choose  to 
remain a rogue State that does not respect international 
law  or  it  can  choose  to  be  a  State  that  abides  by  its 
obligations  to  the  international  community.  It  cannot 
wear both hats at the same time.
Mr. Elshenawy (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like  to  exercise  our  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  State 
of Qatar.
We  do  not  find  it  odd  that  the  delegation  of  the 
State of Qatar is making allegations in order to defend 
its position after Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab 
Emirates and Bahrain became fed up with the situation 
and decided to enact legal measures, such as those taken 
recently, to prevent the Qatari regime from supporting 
terrorism  and  interfering  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
other countries.
As  we  all  know,  the  Qatari  regime  supports 
terrorism  in  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya  and  elsewhere.  It  has 
recently  financed  terrorism  in  Iraq,  for  example, 
by  paying  ransom  to  terrorists.  The  regime  is  also 
providing 
terrorists  with  weapons,  safe  havens 
and  even  with  Qatari  nationality,  and  it  declines  to 
prosecute or extradite them as it is required to do under 
Council  resolutions.  It  is  also  very  openly  instigating 
terrorist acts. Qatar’s support of terrorism, which it has 
maintained for years, has been specifically mentioned 
in  reports  of  Security  Council  sanctions  committees, 
and is known to all.
We all reject the regime’s insistence on supporting 
terrorism. Its continued refusal to get back on the right 
track  is  the  reason  that  our  four  countries  decided  to 
take  measures  in  accordance  with  international  law. 
We remind everyone, particularly the terror-supporting 
Qatari  regime,  that  fighting  and  countering  terrorism 
is a commitment and an obligation for all countries, in 
line with the relevant Council resolutions. The Qatari 
regime rejects that notion because it supports terrorism.
Mr.  Al-Kuwari  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is 
truly regrettable that the delegation of the United Arab 
Emirates has once again verbally attacked Qatar. That 
comes as no surprise in the light of the results of the 
investigation  conducted  by  the  Qatari  authorities  and 
international  agencies  into  the  hacking  of  the  Qatari 
news  agency  a  few  months  ago,  revealing  that  the 
hacking was carried out by a nearby Gulf State. That 
crime  was  accompanied  by  a  campaign  of  lies  and 
defamation  targeting  Qatar.  The  lies  included  in  the 
statement made by the representative of the United Arab 
Emirates  represent  a  continuation  of  that  campaign, 
which everyone knows is fabricated.
We  affirm  that  any  allegations  of  a  link  between 
Qatar and terrorism are false and baseless. Those who 
stand behind that campaign have tried to falsely accuse 
Qatar  of  terrorism  because  of  the  impact  of  the  use 
17-29728
33/34
A/72/PV.18 
22/09/2017
of  that  term.  Those  abominable  attempts  have  failed 
because the international community refuses to use the 
accusation of terrorism as a way to single out and berate 
countries  and  give  them  a  bad  name,  thus  excluding 
them from international efforts.
Qatar  has  made  efforts  that  are  supported  and 
commended  by  many.  It  is  therefore  truly  ironic  that 
the United Arab Emirates can speak about combating 
terrorism  while  some  of  its  citizens  have  participated 
in some of the most heinous terrorist attacks in history, 
while  its  regime  reaps  huge  financial  benefits  from 
terrorism and continues to defy international sanctions.
The meeting rose at 9.40 p.m.
34/34 
17-29728
