United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
26th plenary meeting
Thursday, 28 September 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Saikal 
(Afghanistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 107 (continued)
Crime prevention and criminal justice
High-level meeting of the General Assembly on 
the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of 
Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons
The Acting President: Before we proceed, I would 
like to remind all speakers to limit their statements to 
three minutes when speaking in their national capacity, 
as  stipulated  in  resolution  71/287.  As  members  will 
recall, in its resolution 71/323, of 8 September 2017, the 
General Assembly called for strict adherence by each 
speaker to the time limits in the Assembly, in particular 
during high-level meetings. This will enable maximum 
participation  within  the  limited  time  available  for 
this  meeting.  Participants  with  longer  statements  are 
encouraged to read a shorter version of their text and 
to  submit  their  full  statements  to  the  Secretariat  for 
posting on the PaperSmart portal.
Also in accordance with resolution 71/323, the “all 
protocol observed” principle, whereby participants are 
encouraged, in the interest of time, to refrain from the 
listing  of  standard  protocol  expressions  during  their 
statements, is recommended. In the light of that given 
time frame, I would like to appeal to speakers to deliver 
their statements at a normal speed so that interpretation 
may  be  provided  properly.  To  assist  speakers  in 
managing their time, a light system has been installed 
at the speaker’s rostrum. May I appeal to all speakers 
for their cooperation in observing the time limit of their 
statements, so that all those inscribed will be heard in 
a timely manner.
I now give the floor to the representative of Canada.
Mr.  Holmes  (Canada):  Canada  applauds 
the 
ongoing efforts of the General Assembly and Member 
States to address the complex global issue of trafficking 
in persons, including through the United Nations Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We 
are  committed  to  this  fight  both  at  home  and  abroad. 
Canada  was  among  the  first  countries  to  ratify  the 
Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in Persons, Especially Women and Children.
Since its ratification, Canada has made significant 
progress  in  its  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons. 
Strong criminal laws are in place to prohibit all forms 
of  trafficking  in  persons,  which  is  punishable  by 
severe  penalties  up  to  life  imprisonment,  and  federal 
legislation  enshrines  rights  for  all.  Canada  launched 
its  national  action  plan  to  combat  human  trafficking, 
which consolidated efforts to combat the crime into a 
comprehensive  approach  using  prevention,  protection, 
prosecution and partnerships.
(spoke in French)
Canada 
is  currently 
finalizing  an  extensive 
evaluation  of  its  national  plan.  The  results  of  that 
study  will  inform  us  of  the  best  way  forward  on  this 
important issue.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-30252 (E)
*1730252*
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
In  the  area  of  prevention,  we  have  continued  to 
develop  information  and  outreach  programmes  that 
target the most at-risk populations, including aboriginal 
women and girls, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and 
queer persons, youth and/or runaways, foreign workers 
and those who are economically disadvantaged.
In terms of prosecutions, we have made significant 
progress  in  addressing  our  criminal-justice  responses 
to  trafficking  crimes  through  targeted  training  and 
various  reforms.  Those  actions  have  resulted  in  more 
convictions  and  a  better  understanding  of  the  issue 
among criminal-justice practitioners.
In  terms  of  victim  protection,  the  Government  of 
Canada continues to work with its domestic partners, 
including  provincial  and  territorial  Governments  and 
non-governmental organizations.
(spoke in English)
I would like to highlight one initiative that I believe 
will be of interest to States parties, which was launched 
in 2016. Project Protect is a joint initiative between the 
Government of Canada and the private sector, allowing 
Canadian  financial  institutions  to  report  transactions 
that are suspected to involve money-laundering related 
to  trafficking  in  persons  for  sexual  exploitation.  In 
2016,  compared  to  the  same  four-month  period  in 
2015, the Project produced a 400 per cent increase in 
financial-intelligence  disclosures  to  law  enforcement 
linking money-laundering to trafficking in persons.
In  addition 
to  our  domestic  efforts,  Canada 
continues  to  work  with  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs  and  Crime,  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration and INTERPOL, among other international 
partners, to provide technical assistance and capacity-
building,  enabling  countries  to  successfully  address 
trafficking in persons.
Acknowledging  that  trafficking  is  a  crime  that 
disproportionately  affects  women  and  girls,  our  new 
feminist  international  assistance  policy  will  address 
the unacceptably high rates of sexual and gender-based 
violence  experienced  by  women  and  girls,  including 
those  in  situations  of  human  trafficking.  In  addition, 
Canada  is  making  strides  to  eradicate  trafficking  in 
persons from the production of goods and provision of 
services. As part of this, we are expanding our code of 
conduct for procurement to ensure that the Government 
of  Canada’s  supply  chains  are  free  of  trafficking 
in persons.
The role of civil-society organizations in combating 
trafficking  in  persons  cannot  be  understated.  These 
organizations, which are often the first point of contact 
for  victims,  carry  out  important  advocacy  on  their 
behalf  and  provide  important  knowledge,  skills  and 
expertise,  particularly  in  the  realm  of  victim  care, 
support and rehabilitation.
In  conclusion,  Canada  urges  the  widest  possible 
ratification and implementation of the United Nations 
Protocol,  as  it  is  the  key  international  instrument 
guiding  countries  in  the  fight  against  trafficking  in 
persons. Canada is committed to collaborating with the 
United Nations and all countries in order to prevent this 
crime,  bring  those  who  commit  it  to  justice  and  help 
survivors go on to lead healthy and productive lives.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Azerbaijan.
Mr. Heydarov (Azerbaijan) (spoke in Russian): At 
the outset, I would like to express my warm greetings 
and my gratitude to the Assembly for the opportunity 
to discuss this issue.
As a pioneer and one of the region’s most active and 
progressive countries in preventing human trafficking, 
as long ago as 2003 the Republic of Azerbaijan ratified 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime and its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children. The three national action plans for 2004, 
2009 and 2014, formulated and approved by our Head 
of State, have played a major role in the complex and 
systematic  struggle  against  human  trafficking  in  our 
country. At the Government level, we have adopted a 
national  referral  mechanism  and  rules  for  identifying 
and rehabilitating victims of human trafficking, placing 
them in specialized institutions and repatriating them 
to their own countries.
In  order  to  coordinate  the  Government  agencies, 
civil-society organizations and foreign partners working 
to  combat  human  trafficking,  we  have  established 
a  national  coordination  agency  and  an  inter-agency 
commission. With the goal of implementing our national 
action  plan,  through  our  council  for  State  support  to 
non-governmental organizations, under the direction of 
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  we  have 
funded more than 50 projects.
Within  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior,  we  have  set 
up a special police unit to combat human trafficking, 
2/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
as  well  as  a  Government  assistance  centre,  fund  and 
hot  line  for  victims.  During  this  period,  Interior 
Ministry  agencies  have  identified  more  than  19,000 
cases  of  human  trafficking  and  forced  labour,  and 
have  prosecuted  more  than  200  criminal  groups  and 
brought to justice 495 criminals. Overall, 774 victims 
of such crimes have been successfully reintegrated into 
society. All the victims have been granted the right to 
compensation, recovery time and a period of reflection, 
as well as permission to obtain residence permits and 
assurance of non-punishment. They have all also been 
provided  with  legal,  medical,  psychological  and  other 
forms of assistance and returned to normal life.
In conclusion, I would like to express my confidence 
that  every  country  participating  in  today’s  meeting 
will continue to contribute to our fight against human 
trafficking, and I wish them every success.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Latvia.
Ms.  Vilde  (Latvia):  Human  trafficking  affects 
millions of people every year on every continent. This 
shameful  crime  is  a  highly  organized  and  lucrative 
business.  It  is  also  a  gross  violation  of  human  rights 
that  mostly  affects  women  and  children.  Latvia  is 
firmly committed to combating this heinous crime and 
has developed a strong legal framework for addressing 
trafficking in human beings through severe punishment 
based on the relevant United Nations, European Union 
and Council of Europe legal instruments. At the same 
time, we have enacted legislation on the non-punishment 
of  victims  of  trafficking.  Latvia  also  recently  signed 
the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking 
in Human Organs, another area of great concern.
Latvia’s  national  strategy  for  the  prevention  of 
trafficking in human beings in the period from 2014 to 
2020 is based on the four Ps — prevention, protection, 
prosecution  and  partnership —  and  addresses  current 
risks and trends. As a country of origin of victims of 
human  trafficking,  especially  young  women,  Latvia 
pays  particular  attention  to  combating  trafficking 
for  the  purpose  of  sexual  exploitation,  as  well  as 
labour  exploitation  and  fictitious  marriage.  Our  law-
enforcement  agencies  work  in  close  cooperation  with 
non-governmental  organizations  in  identifying  and 
assisting Latvian and third-country nationals subjected 
to trafficking for the purpose of exploitation.
Transnational 
cooperation 
involving  public  and  private  partnership  is  a  core 
inter-institutional 
pillar for achieving results in this fight. Raising public 
awareness and understanding about the risks that lead 
to  human  trafficking,  in  cooperation  with  media  and 
information  communication  technology  companies, 
must be a priority.
So-called sham marriages between Latvian citizens 
and third-country nationals, arranged in other countries 
with  the  sole  purpose  of  obtaining  a  European  Union 
residence permit, have been a serious concern for the 
Latvian  Government  in  the  past  few  years.  Latvia 
is  a  part  of  a  regional  awareness-raising  campaign, 
involving  several  European  countries,  on  preventing 
human  trafficking  and  sham  marriages.  The  project 
provides regional training for multidisciplinary groups 
of  experts  and  practitioners,  as  well  as  informative 
activities  for  raising  awareness  on  the  issue.  As  a 
result, the number of Latvian citizens in such fictitious 
marriages abroad has fallen substantially.
An  individual-  and  victim-centred  approach  that 
takes victims’ needs and best interests into consideration 
must  be  our  priority.  Latvia  provides  State-funded 
assistance  to  victims  of  trafficking,  including  social 
and psychological rehabilitation services, safe shelter, 
legal  aid,  compensation,  medical  treatment,  special 
protection  and  access  to  education  and  the  labour 
market. Non-governmental organizations are involved 
in  all  stages,  from  reporting  to  identification  and 
victim  assistance.  Close  cooperation  between  law 
enforcement, the judiciary and victim service providers 
should  be  further  facilitated.  It  is  also  important  to 
consider  how  to  improve  victims’  reintegration  after 
they have received services.
Trends in human trafficking are constantly changing 
and affect every country. Given the transnational nature 
of  this  crime,  national  efforts  are  not  enough.  Based 
on  our  own  experience,  it  is  important  for  countries 
of  origin  to  work  closely  with  those  of  transit  and 
destination to fight this crime together.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Guinea.
Mr. Komara (Guinea) (spoke in French): It is a great 
honour for me to speak on behalf of the Government of 
Guinea  on  the  occasion  of  this  high-level  meeting  to 
consider  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to 
Combat Trafficking in Persons.
My  delegation  strongly  welcomes  the  Assembly’s 
adoption  yesterday  of  the  political  declaration  on  the 
17-30252
3/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
implementation of the Global Plan of Action (resolution 
72/1), which should help to speed up our fulfilment of 
our commitments to combating trafficking in persons. 
We thank partners for their continuing support to the 
major  legislative  reform  efforts  aimed  at  creating  a 
legal framework for the protection of human rights.
The  Republic  of  Guinea  has  expressed 
its 
willingness  to  combat  this  scourge  by  ratifying  the 
main  international,  regional  and  subregional  legal 
instruments  for  the  protection  of  human  rights,  in 
particular  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  its  additional 
Protocols,  as  well  as  the  multilateral  agreement  of 
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
on  combating  human 
trafficking.  Strengthening 
international cooperation in preventing and eliminating 
trafficking should be one of our priorities in eradicating 
this scourge.
Guinea 
is  a  country  of  origin, 
transit  and 
destination for victims of human trafficking, a situation 
that has encouraged my Government to take a number 
of  measures.  We  have  strengthened  our  institutional 
framework  for  combating  human 
trafficking  by 
establishing  a  national  committee  to  combat  human 
trafficking  and  related  practices,  and  developing  an 
emergency  plan  of  action  with  a  budget  that  includes 
training  judges  and  security  forces  and  a  nationwide 
awareness-raising campaign. The law on organization 
of  the  judiciary  and  the  new  criminal  code,  which 
transfers  criminal  jurisdiction  from  courts  of  appeal 
to trial courts, is now in force. We have strengthened 
our  cooperation  with  neighbouring  countries,  such  as 
Mali, as part of the fight against trafficking in children. 
In November, six countries of the subregion will sign 
a  cooperation  agreement.  We  also  have  a  document 
evaluating  our  national  mechanisms  for  the  care  of 
victims of human trafficking.
I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  without  first 
asking our technical and financial partners to continue 
supporting  my  country  in  its  efforts  to  combat  the 
exploitation of human beings in all its forms.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Finland.
Mr. Sauer (Finland): Finland considers trafficking 
in persons a grave human rights violation and a serious 
global  problem.  It  undermines  the  principles  of  a 
democratic  society,  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for 
human dignity. In order to tackle human trafficking, and 
all the forms of criminal networks and organized crime 
connected to it, it is crucial that we work together at the 
international,  regional  and  local  levels  with  a  variety 
of stakeholders, whether authorities, non-governmental 
organizations  or  other  actors.  We  consider  today’s 
meeting to be essential for highlighting the continuing 
need for wide cooperation and commitment in combating 
trafficking  in  persons.  International  obligations  and 
best practices make it clear that all counter-trafficking 
efforts require a holistic approach.
Finland  has  ratified  the  international  agreements 
related  to  trafficking  in  human  beings  and  translated 
them into national legislation, and has been taking part 
in monitoring their implementation within, for example, 
the United Nations and Council of Europe frameworks. 
In  the  past  few  years  we  have  worked  to  improve 
our  national  system’s  ability  to  prevent  trafficking, 
protect  victims  and  prosecute  perpetrators.  We  have 
appointed  a  national  anti-trafficking  coordinator  in 
order  to  improve  our  inter-agency  cooperation.  The 
national  rapporteur  on  trafficking,  who  maintains  an 
independent  role  and  reports  directly  to  Parliament, 
remains an important part of the system.
There  is  still  a  lot  we  can  do  to  better  prevent, 
protect  and  prosecute.  Identifying  the  victims  is  a 
priority  but  continues  to  be  a  challenge  in  Finland, 
especially  where  victims  of  sexual  exploitation  are 
concerned. The authorities often find it hard to reach 
victims  living  on  the  margins  of  society,  sometimes 
as undocumented migrants. Civil society has a central 
role to play in finding and assisting them. Developing 
functional  partnerships  is  therefore  a  key  element  of 
our  anti-trafficking  strategy.  Most  of  the  trafficking 
victims  we  find  are  victims  of  sexual  exploitation; 
about  half  of  all  victims  detected  are  women  and  a 
fifth are girls. As a human rights violation, trafficking 
requires  a  human-rights-based  approach,  and  special 
attention should be paid to the gendered nature of such 
crimes. The specific needs of women, girls and victims 
of  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  must  be  taken  into 
account in developing assistance systems.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Liechtenstein.
(Liechtenstein): 
Mr.  Wenaweser 
Human 
trafficking and modern slavery are among the biggest 
human rights scandals of our time. They are an affront 
to  the  public  conscience,  constitute  grave  violations 
of  human  rights  law  and  are  a  serious  obstacle  to 
4/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
sustainable development. They directly affect 46 million 
people worldwide.
With 
the  Protocol 
to  Prevent,  Suppress  and 
Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and 
Children, we have agreed on an international definition 
of  the  crime  of  trafficking  in  persons.  The  Protocol 
provides a legal framework to effectively prevent and 
combat  all  forms  of  trafficking  in  persons,  including 
the exploitation of others’ prostitution or other forms of 
sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery 
or  practices  similar  to  slavery,  servitude  and  the 
removal  of  organs.  While  the  Trafficking  in  Persons 
Protocol  has  been  widely  ratified,  it  still  lacks  the 
universal  acceptance  that  would  enable  it  to  exert  its 
full potential. We hope that this goal will be achieved 
soon.  Liechtenstein  has  been  a  strong  advocate  for 
its  universality,  in  the  context,  among  others,  of  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Human Rights Council.
Law  enforcement  and  criminal  justice  are  key 
dimensions  in  our  common  fight  against  human 
trafficking  and  modern  slavery.  A  comprehensive 
response  on  the  part  of  the  international  community, 
including  to  new  and  emerging  challenges,  also 
requires  strong  cooperation  in  other  aspects.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  fact  that  the  2030  Agenda  on 
Sustainable  Development  addresses  the  issue  in  three 
of  its  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals  —  Goals  5, 
on  gender  equality,  8,  on  decent  work  and  economic 
growth,  and  16,  on  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies. 
We  have  established  a  collective  understanding  that 
combating  modern  slavery  and  the  trafficking  of 
persons is intimately linked to sustainable development 
efforts, peace and security, and human rights. We had 
hoped for a more ambitious political declaration on the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1)  for  this  high-level  meeting,  one  that  would 
reflect  the  need  for  comprehensive  policy  responses. 
In  that  regard,  we  consider  the  Declaration  rather  a 
missed opportunity.
of the International Criminal Court. Secondly, we have 
used  the  expertise  and  knowledge  of  our  financial 
centre,  particularly  our  financial  intelligence  unit,  to 
adapt  existing  tools  to  fight  money-laundering  and 
the  financing  of  terrorism,  which  can  also  help  us  in 
the  fight  against  human  trafficking  by  following  the 
money. Those efforts are particularly relevant, because 
modern slavery is one of the big illegal business models 
of our day, generating more than $150 billion annually.
The  United  Nations  can  be  an  ideal  platform  for 
forming the necessary partnerships among the various 
United  Nations  bodies,  as  long  as  awareness  of  the 
common cause, a cooperative spirit and a commitment 
to a complementarity of effort prevail. That will enable 
our Organization to attract the support of Government 
and  private-sector  and  civil-society  entities  that  are 
committed and ready to invest in our shared fight.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Japan.
Mr. Hoshino (Japan): On behalf of the Government 
of Japan, I would like to welcome the convening of this 
high-level meeting, which provides a great opportunity 
for  Member  States,  United  Nations  entities  and  civil 
society  to  evaluate  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons.
Trafficking in persons is a serious crime as well as 
a grave violation of human dignity and integrity. The 
nexus between it and terrorism has recently become a 
matter of deep concern, and terrorist groups are using 
trafficking  in  persons  as  a  tactic  of  fund-raising  and 
recruitment,  as  the  Security  Council  highlighted  last 
year  with  its  adoption  of  resolution  2331  (2016).  That 
new development is helping to prolong and exacerbate 
conflict and instability. Member States have the shared 
responsibility to eliminate this crime. Japan welcomes 
the fact that Member States at this high-level meeting 
are  demonstrating  our  strong  political  will  to  take 
decisive and concerted action to end this heinous crime 
wherever it may occur.
Human 
trafficking  and  modern  slavery  are 
complex  phenomena.  Nationally,  we  in  Liechtenstein 
have identified two areas for focusing our engagement. 
First,  we  aim  to  strengthen  accountability,  including 
through  the  involvement  of  international  criminal 
justice  mechanisms.  There  is  a  customary  norm  of 
international  law  against  slavery,  and  enslavement  is 
listed as a crime against humanity in the Rome Statute 
The  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons  is  one  of 
the  most  important  policy  areas  for  the  Government 
of  Japan.  The  Government  takes  comprehensive  and 
holistic  measures  with  effective  coordination  among 
relevant  agencies  based  on  its  2014  Action  Plan 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  As  required  by 
that  Action  Plan,  the  Government  follows  up  on  its 
implementation  by  issuing  an  annual  report  with  a 
17-30252
5/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
view to broadly providing information on the measures 
taken  by  the  Government  and  to  raise  awareness 
among citizens.
In  addition  to  our  efforts  at  the  national  level, 
building strong partnerships with various international 
and regional stakeholders is also of interest to us. In that 
regard, Japan has been holding an annual Japan-United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) strategic 
policy dialogue since 2013. Enhancing law-enforcement 
capacity  around  the  world  to  combat  trafficking  in 
persons is one of the priorities of that cooperation, and 
we  are  delighted  to  see  experts  from  Japan  playing  a 
central  role  in  implementing  various  anti-trafficking 
projects developed by UNODC, particularly in South-
East Asian countries.
Japan has also been providing technical assistance 
for  prevention,  victim  protection  and  rehabilitation 
measures through the Japan International Cooperation 
Agency  and  in  collaboration  with  the  International 
Organization for Migration. We also welcome the fact 
that the Japan-Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
Integration  Fund  has  been  utilized  to  implement 
projects to address this crime.
I take this opportunity to note that Japan became 
a  party  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime and its supplementary 
Protocol  on  Trafficking  in  Persons  on  11  July  2017. 
Since  then,  in  September,  Japan  participated  in  the 
Working  Group  on  Trafficking  in  Persons  as  a  State 
party to the Protocol. As these international instruments 
play  a  central  role  in  the  fight  against  trafficking  in 
persons,  Japan  is  committed  to  engaging  fully  in  the 
process of establishing a mechanism for the review of 
the implementation of these instruments and to further 
strengthening cooperation with other countries.
I would like to conclude my statement by expressing 
our commitment to continuing to take practical steps to 
address this issue in line with the Global Plan of Action 
and relevant Sustainable Development Goals, in close 
cooperation  with  other  Member  States,  the  relevant 
United Nations organizations and civil society.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Cabo Verde.
Mr.  Fialho  Rocha  (Cabo  Verde):  Trafficking  in 
persons is a matter of concern for the Government of 
Cabo Verde in many respects. It represents a real threat 
to  human  dignity  and  to  human  development.  It  is  a 
denial  of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  It 
is a source of wounds and suffering for its victims. It is 
also a crime committed by perpetrators who deserve to 
be treated with no mercy by national and international 
law  enforcement.  Finally,  it  requires  a  global  and 
political response.
Moreover,  it  is  our  view  that  preventing  and 
combating trafficking in persons is an endeavour that 
must bring together all related Sustainable Development 
Goals, namely, those with respect to poverty eradication, 
quality  education,  decent  work,  reduced  inequalities, 
and promotion of peaceful, just and inclusive societies, 
combined, in addition, with measures for safe and regular 
migration and safe tourism free of sexual exploitation. 
The strides made to address these phenomena should be 
gender-sensitive and responsive, with policies aimed at 
combating  all  forms  of  discrimination,  forced  labour, 
sexual exploitation and abuse, and all forms of violence 
against women and girls.
To  combat  trafficking  in  persons,  Cabo  Verde 
first  endorsed  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime and related Protocols. 
Secondly,  Cabo  Verde  criminalized 
trafficking 
through  its  domestic  legislation.  Thirdly,  my  country 
implemented institutional and operational responses.
to 
Nevertheless,  with  its  limited  resources  and  with 
a large maritime area under its jurisdiction to control, 
Cabo  Verde  underlines  the  need  to  expand  the  means 
allocated 
implement  policies  and  programmes 
that  might  end  this  scourge.  Appropriate  and  timely 
international cooperation on capacity-building, technical 
assistance and support for operational programmes at 
the  country  level  can  make  a  difference  by  providing 
bold responses against trafficking in persons and other 
related transnational organized crimes.
That is precisely the spirit of the political declaration 
adopted  at  this  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  its  opening  segment  (resolution  72/1). 
We reaffirm that global financing to prevent and fight 
human trafficking needs to be increased and improved. 
That is also how we can pave the way for the effective 
implementation of the 2010 United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
Let  me  conclude  by  underlining  the  fact  that,  as 
we move further into the twenty-first century, human 
beings are still capable of trafficking people, of modern 
forms of slavery and other related crimes. We have said 
before and repeat that these are crimes against humanity 
6/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
and that they remain unpunished. It is therefore in our 
hands  to  leave  no  one  behind  in  the  trafficking  trap, 
if  we  can  join  our  wills,  our  hands  and  our  means  in 
a global strategy for this purpose. The strategy exists 
already through the Global Plan of Action. It is up to all 
of us to implement it successfully.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Chile.
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My  country  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the representative of Panama on behalf of the Human 
Security Network (see A/72/PV.24).
As  a  country  of  origin,  destination  and  transit  in 
the  trafficking  in  persons,  Chile  has  not  escaped  the 
sad reality of human trafficking. That is why, following 
the  international  guidelines  set  forth  in  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  my  country  has  developed  a  complete 
and  comprehensive  public  State  policy  that  includes 
the axes of prevention, persecution and assistance for 
victims. Two national anti-trafficking plans, adopted in 
2011 and 2015, and the training of nearly 2,000 public 
officials in detection and prosecution demonstrate the 
permanence  of  our  policy  and  the  determination  to 
continue to promote it.
In  the  second  plan,  for  the  period  from  2015  to 
2018, we have made progress in fundamental ways to 
address  this  multidimensional  phenomenon,  such  as 
broad  recognition  of  the  rights  of  victims  and  of  the 
need  to  improve  and  deepen  coordination  in  terms  of 
prevention  and  prosecution,  and  the  incorporation  of 
indicators for monitoring programme implementation. 
That  is  relevant  if  we  consider  that  in  Chile  there 
have  not  been  not  a  great  many  formalized  cases  of 
trafficking in persons since its classification as a crime 
in  2011.  At  the  national  level,  only  29  cases  and  206 
victims were registered between 2011 and 2016.
Since the classification of the crime of smuggling 
migrants, that joint work has produced concrete results. 
Mmanuals  for  prevention,  detection  and  persecution 
have been produced, and there are specific actions to 
provide care and reparation for victims.
In  the  international  sphere,  Chile  has  worked 
to  promote  cooperation  with  countries  of  the  Latin 
American  and  Carribean  region,  as  well  as  at  the 
subregional  level  with  the  Southern  Common  Market 
and the Union of South American Nations, and at the 
hemispheric  level  with  the  Organization  of  American 
States. Bilaterally, we work with Argentina, Colombia, 
the  United  States  and  Peru.  Today,  we  are  moving 
forward  in  planning  cooperation  with  the  Dominican 
Republic and Bolivia.
We  also  recognize  the  importance  of  concerted 
global action in the framework of the Working Group 
on Trafficking in Persons, in Vienna, the Global Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  and 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime. 
We  aspire  to  deepen  and  integrate  those  actions  and 
to  develop  spaces  of  coordination  and  dialogue  with 
these institutions.
Chile favours vigorous progress along those lines. 
Thus  we  systematically  support  the  achievement  of 
a  transparent,  inclusive,  non-invasive  and  impartial 
international  instrument.  Along  with  measuring  the 
level  of  compliance  of  States,  it  would  also  indicate 
the extent to which that compliance has led to progress 
towards  the  ultimate  objectives  of  the  Convention 
against Transnational Organized Crime.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Costa Rica.
Mr.  Mendoza-García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Costa  Rica  endorses  the  statement  made  by 
the representative of Panama on behalf of the Human 
Security  Network  (see  A/72/PV.24),  and  we  highlight 
the importance of the focus on placing the individual 
at  the  centre  in  prevention,  protection  and  fighting 
trafficking in persons.
Children still make up one third of victims at the 
global level, and women and girls 71 per cent, according 
to  the  latest  report  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs  and  Crime.  For  that  reason,  any  strategy  to 
combat  trafficking  must  take  into  account  the  factors 
that  increase  the  risks  to  our  children,  as  well  as  a 
gender  perspective  that  will  assist  us  in  designing 
specific actions to increase the effective protection of 
those vulnerable populations.
In  addition,  one  of  the  major  challenges  is  to 
improve data collection, given that trafficking extends 
throughout  the  world,  with  millions  of  victims  and  a 
large  number  of  cases  remaining  hidden.  There  have 
been  major  efforts  to  criminalize  this  human  rights 
violation,  as  reflected  in  the  fact  that  88  per  cent  of 
countries  have  classified  it  as  a  criminal  offence. 
17-30252
7/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
Unfortunately,  when  it  comes  to  carrying  out  the 
laws, the sentencing rates are still low, with only 9,071 
sentences reported globally in 2016.
trafficking 
We  should  recall  that  trafficking  in  persons  is 
commonly  associated  with 
in  organs, 
drugs  and  arms,  and  with  money-laundering  and 
other  activities  of  organized  crime.  That  is  why  a 
comprehensive, coordinated focus is needed to fight all 
of those crimes and to coordinate actions in the fight 
against the supply and demand.
A final challenge is support for victims. In many 
cases that is still inadequate, and we need policies and 
programmes that allow human-trafficking survivors to 
rebuild  their  lives  and  prevent  revictimization.  Since 
2013, Costa Rica has had a law to combat trafficking 
in persons, and we have been struggliing to fight this 
scourge through a national coalition addressing it in a 
comprehensive and inter-institutional manner.
For our country, the fight against trafficking must 
begin with awareness in all sectors. We have designed 
programmes  to  that  end  for  the  most  relevant  public 
officials and institutions, ranging from the police who 
conduct  raids  to  the  judges  who  hear  cases.  We  have 
also  involved  civil  society  and  the  business  sector, 
which  play  a  fundamental  role  in  the  prevention  and 
combat of trafficking in persons.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Ecuador.
Ms.  Moreno  González  (Ecuador)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  My  delegation  supports  the  statement  made 
by the representative of Egypt yesterday on behalf of the 
Group  of  Friends  United  Against  Human  Trafficking 
(see A/72/PV.24).
The  Constitution  of  Ecuador  expressly  prohibits 
slavery,  exploitation,  servitude  and  the  trafficking 
of  persons.  It  recognizes  the  State’s  role  in  adopting 
measures  for 
the  prevention  and  eradication  of 
human  trafficking  and  for  the  protection  and  social 
reintegration of victims of human trafficking and other 
forms of violations of liberty.
My  country  has  made  major  progress 
in 
implementing  its  national  plan  to  combat  trafficking 
in  persons  and  the  smuggling  of  migrants,  sexual 
exploitation,  labour  exploitation  and  other  forms  of 
exploitation  and  prostitution.  In  that  plan  the  axes  of 
action  are  prevention,  promotion  of  rights,  assistance 
and  the  comprehensive  protection  of  victims,  as  well 
as investigation, punishment and the strengthening of 
international  cooperation  in  order  to  effectively  fight 
trafficking in persons and the smuggling of migrants, in 
line with the United Nations Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons. Our plan is implemented in an 
integral manner through an inter-institutional committee 
with a multidimensional focus and with competencies 
in the social, health, educational, productive, security, 
legal and social control spheres.
Ecuador  is  party  to  the  international  instruments 
in  this  area.  Therefore,  the  comprehensive  criminal 
code,  which  has  been  in  force  since  2014,  classifies 
and punishes trafficking in persons as a grave violation 
of  human  rights.  The  penalization  of  the  crime  is 
consistent with the provisions of the Palermo Protocol 
and in some aspects is a greater guarantor, because it 
broadens the scope of the forms of exploitation subject 
to punishment.
In  the  interests  of  time,  I  would  like  to  touch  on 
only some of the main successes in the different axes 
of action, such as the guarantee of special protection, 
assistance  for  victims  of  trafficking  and  migrant-
smuggling and restitution of their rights, and protecting 
the  safety  and  privacy  of  victims  and  their  family. 
The  legislation  classifying  human  trafficking  as  a 
crime applies the principle of the non-punishability of 
victims, which guarantees that a victim of trafficking is 
not to be criminally tried or punished for any infraction 
committed during the time that he or she was trafficked.
Another  major  step  forward  is  the  elimination 
of  the  need  to  prove  the  means  leading  to  the 
crime  —  deception,  fraud,  threat  and  coercion.  That 
makes  it  easier  for  the  justice  system  to  prove  the 
existence of the crime.
In 
the  area  of  alliances  and 
international 
coordination, Ecuador, recognizing that 94 per cent of 
the victims in Latin America are captured, moved and 
exploited either within the country of origin or in the 
region, acts in conjunction with neighbouring countries 
and  countries  in  the  region  to  develop  preventive 
actions,  break  up  criminal  networks,  rescue  victims, 
and encourages various initiatives at the bilateral and 
regional levels.
 The interrelation between trafficking and migration 
is  another  vital  topic.  Ecuador  is  a  country  of  origin, 
transit,  destination  and  return  of  persons  in  mobility. 
For that particular reason, we have seen the need for a 
new framework to strengthen the mechanisms to protect 
8/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
the  rights  of  those  persons.  We  have  adopted  policies 
and  specific  national  actions  to  prevent  and  punish 
any  practice  related  to  the  trafficking  and  smuggling 
of  migrants  and  to  guarantee  the  restitution  and 
comprehensive  reparation  of  the  victims’  rights.  That 
includes the development of protocols, inter-institutional 
coordination at the regional and international levels and 
prevention programmes, among other things.
Ecuador is grateful to the President of the General 
Assembly for having convened this high-level meeting, 
making  it  possible  for  us  to  evaluate  and  advance 
the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to 
Combat Trafficking, and we applaude the adoption of 
the poltical declaration (resolution 72/1) yesterday. It is 
essential  to  strengthen  the  political  will  of  all  States 
to end this criminal activity, which undermines human 
dignity and has negative effects on development, peace 
and security, and human rights. Ecuador reiterates its 
unwavering will in the fight against this crime, as well 
as its commitment to resolutely support the processes 
and measures that are carried out in this context.
The Acting President: I give the floor to the Chair 
of the delegation of Mongolia.
Mr.  Sukhee  (Mongolia):  At  the  very  outset,  let 
me  express  my  delegation’s  sincere  gratitude  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening  in 
a  timely  manner  this  important  high-level  meeting  to 
assess the implementation of Global Plan of Action to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  which  is  designed  to 
produce  a  renewed  political  will  and  commitments  to 
end the heinous crime of human trafficking.
Trafficking  in  persons,  especially  women  and 
children, constitutes a serious threat to human dignity, 
human rights and development. Poverty, unemployment, 
lack  of  socioeconomic  opportunities,  gender-based 
violence, discrimination and marginalization are some 
of the contributing factors that make persons vulnerable 
to human trafficking in developing countries.
Regarded  as  a  source  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  a 
destination country, Mongolia is not immune to human 
trafficking.  Mongolia  has  acceded  to  the  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children,  supplementing  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime,  in  2008,  and  made  significant  and 
made  significant  efforts  towards  enhancing  its  legal 
framework, including by adopting the Law on Combating 
Trafficking in Persons, the Law on Victim and Witness 
Protection,  and  the  revised  Criminal  Code.  While  its 
legal  environment  has  been  significantly  improved, 
weaknesses  persist  in  victim  identification  and  the 
prosecution of cases in the country. Law enforcement 
and  judges  have  an  uneven  general  understanding 
of  trafficking  in  persons  and  its  related  legislation. 
Often  due  to  misleading  interpretations,  trafficking 
offenders tend to be prosecuted under a lesser offence. 
In the past six years, 54 human trafficking cases were 
investigated and only 15 individuals were convicted of 
human trafficking.
Four months ago, the National Programme to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons was renewed by the Government. 
Guided by the 3 Ps approach of prevention, protection 
and  prosecution,  the  programme  aims  to  strengthen 
law enforcement to detect, prosecute perpetrators and 
protect victims. It is worth noting that the Network of 
Anti-Trafficking  Non-Governmental  Organizations  in 
Mongolia, an umbrella organization founded by 19 local 
non-governmental  organizations,  actively  participated 
in the development of the programme.
We believe that the current progress achieved and 
the  concerted  efforts  accelerated  by  Member  States 
and  international  organizations  as  part  of  the  Global 
Plan  of  Action  present  promising  opportunities  to 
advance  a  holistic  approach  to  combat  trafficking  in 
persons  globally.  Moving  forward,  we  should  fully 
take  advantage  of  innovation  and  advancement  in 
information  and  communications  technologies  for  a 
more  effective  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of 
Action. We also stress the need to intensify international 
cooperation, including capacity-building and technical 
assistance,  especially  for  developing  countries,  to 
combat trafficking in persons.
In conclusion, I am pleased to note that Mongolia 
is  honoured  to  be  serving  the  second  year  of  its 
membership  in  the  Human  Rights  Council.  As  part 
of our endeavour to protect human rights and dignity 
worldwide,  we  reaffirm  our  firm  commitment  to 
combat trafficking in persons.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Cyprus.
Mr. Korneliou (Cyprus): We highly appreciate the 
opportunity to participate in this important meeting. In 
addition to the statement of the European Union, I would 
like to make some remarks in my national capacity.
17-30252
9/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
This  high-level  meeting 
Seven  years  ago,  the  international  community, 
united  by  the  universal  condemnation  of  trafficking 
in  persons,  joined  efforts  to  implement  globally  an 
action  plan  to  combat  this  heinous  crime.  Member 
States, under the guidance of the United Nations, have 
developed comprehensive anti-trafficking strategies and 
engaged  in  cross-border  cooperation  in  investigations 
and  prosecutions.  They  have  taken  measures  for  the 
restoration  of  the  human  rights  of  victims  and  set  in 
place  strategic  partnerships  with  civil  society,  thus 
joining efforts for raising awareness and consciousness.
the  strong 
commitment of the international community to the fight 
against human trafficking. We are here today because we 
share the fundamental belief that trafficking in persons 
is  a  grave  violation  of  human  rights  and  a  shameful 
crime against human dignity. No doubt, the most recent 
inclusion of targets on trafficking in persons in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development is very important. 
In  parallel,  the  efforts  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  the 
European  Union  and  other  regional  and  international 
organizations  that  have  joined  this  fight  are  also 
crucial.  Unfortunately,  and  despite  our  continuous 
efforts,  statistics  reiterate  the  extent  of  the  problem, 
showing  that  today  more  than  20  million  persons  are 
victims of human trafficking, almost 6 million of whom 
are children.
reflects 
The  often  unavoidable  link  between  conflict  and 
migration  means  that  people  escaping  from  war  and 
persecution  may  become  victims  of  trafficking.  In 
that regard, the effective implementation of the United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons, under the global compact for safe, orderly 
and  regular  migration  and  the  global  compact  on 
refugees,  creates  a  more  solid  and  comprehensive 
framework  to  combat  human  trafficking.  Prevention 
of trafficking in persons, protection and assistance to 
victims, prosecution of perpetrators and strengthening 
of  partnerships  are  also  priorities  of  Cyprus.  Our 
contribution to the United Nations voluntary trust fund 
for victims of trafficking in persons, especially women 
and children, underlines this commitment. All people 
are born free and equal. Our responsibility is to make 
sure that no person or child is deprived of the right to a 
dignified life.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Bulgaria.
Mr.  Panayotov  (Bulgaria):  Bulgaria  aligns  itself 
with the statement made by the observer of the European 
Union (see A/72/PV.24).
in  Persons  and  welcomes 
The Government of Bulgaria is strongly committed 
to  preventing  and  combating  trafficking  in  persons, 
prosecuting the traffickers and protecting and assisting 
the  victims.  Bulgaria  emphasizes  the  importance  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking 
this  high-
level  meeting  and  the  political  declaration  on  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1),  which  renews 
to 
eliminating this heinous crime and ensuring protection 
of  the  victims,  also  in  line  with  the  responsibilities 
ensuing  from 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development to leave no one behind.
the  global  commitment 
to 
eliminate 
cooperation 
Trafficking  in  persons  is  a  grave  human  rights 
violation  and  a  highly  lucrative  form  of  transnational 
organized crime with huge human, social and economic 
implications that requires a concerted global response. 
Bulgaria  emphasizes  the  importance  of  accelerating 
international 
human 
trafficking through a comprehensive, multidisciplinary 
and  cross-border  approach.  Better  cooperation  should 
be  established  among  countries  of  origin,  transit  and 
destination  on 
information-sharing  and  victims’ 
identification,  support  and  reintegration,  including  in 
the consolidation of transnational referral mechanisms 
and  data-collection  systems.  Bulgaria  reaffirms  its 
commitment  to  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime  and  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and 
Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons,  Especially  Women 
and  Children,  supplementing  the  Convention,  which 
constitute a solid foundation of international law in this 
area, as well as Security Council resolution 2331 (2016).
Bulgaria  was  among  the  pioneers  in  Europe  in 
adopting specialized anti-trafficking legislation back in 
2003, and currently it has one of the most comprehensive 
institutional  frameworks  to  combat  trafficking  in 
persons. Bulgaria has penalized trafficking in persons 
and  introduced  more  severe  punishment  for  crimes 
involving children.
Bulgaria’s  new  national  anti-trafficking  strategy 
for  2017-2021  contains  the  Government’s  long-term 
vision  to  combat  trafficking  in  persons.  It  places 
special emphasis on early detection and prevention and 
10/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
follows a victim-centred, human rights-based, gender-
specific and child-focused approach, thereby enabling 
a  series  of  consultations  with  all  stakeholders  and  an 
analysis of ongoing trends. Special measures are taken 
to  raise  public  awareness,  especially  among  children, 
in  partnership  with  local  authorities,  civil  society 
and  youth  volunteers.  The  National  Commission  for 
Combating  Trafficking  in  Human  Beings  coordinates 
the  State  policy  in  this  priority  area  and  provides 
assistance  for  victims  of  trafficking  in  Government-
funded  shelters,  including  specialized  facilities  for 
child victims.
In recent years, Bulgaria has increased its capacity 
to  ensure  the  rights  of  trafficking  victims  and  has 
stepped  up  its  participation  in  international  efforts  to 
fight this crime. Combating trafficking in persons will 
be one of the priorities during the Bulgarian presidency 
of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union  in  the  first 
semester of 2018.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Saudi Arabia.
Mr.  Al-Mouallimi  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke 
in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
thank the President, his team and all those in charge of 
drawing up the United Nations Global Plan of Action 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We  welcome  the 
adoption of the Plan and all the tireless efforts deployed 
to that end.
We  reaffirm  the  commitment  and  readiness  of 
Saudi  Arabia  to  help  any  efforts  to  end  the  crime  of 
human trafficking and to work in cooperation with the 
international community, beginning with the adoption 
of national codes and legislation that are consistent both 
with  the  vision  of  the  United  Nations  for  sustainable 
development  and  with  the  Kingdom’s  2030  Vision, 
taking due account of the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action.
My country, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, attaches 
great  importance  to  the  rights  of  citizens  and  foreign 
residents  in  Saudi  Arabia,  whom  we  provide  with  all 
the  necessary  care,  consistent  with  sharia  —  Islamic 
law — which honours the values and dignity of human 
beings and rejects anything that undermines them. That 
is why Saudi Arabia is among the first rank of countries 
in the fight against human trafficking.
The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  has  always  been 
among  the  first  countries  to  ratify  United  Nations 
protocols  to  combat  trafficking  of  human  beings  in 
all  its  forms,  in  particular  crimes  that  affect  women, 
children and persons with disabilities. We have ratified 
16 international conventions, including the Convention 
concerning  Forced  or  Compulsory  Labour.  We  have 
also  played  an  active  role  in  international  efforts  to 
combat  the  crime  of  human  trafficking.  Last  week, 
we participated in the high-level meeting called by the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom,  which  issued 
a declaration and a call for action to eliminate forced 
labour,  modern  slavery  and  human  trafficking.  We 
supported the declaration and the call to action alongside 
other countries. All of this confirms the international 
resolve to combat and eradicate these heinous crimes.
At  the  national  level,  in  2009,  my  Government 
enacted  a  code  to  combat  human  trafficking.  An 
anti-human-trafficking committee was also established 
within  the  framework  of  the  human  rights  body  that 
coordinates  national  efforts  to  combat  and  eradicate 
those  crimes  in  all  their  forms,  and  helps  to  raise 
awareness among the public. In addition, contact centres 
have been established to offer their services to foreign 
workers working in Saudi Arabia. These centres receive 
complaints and resolve disputes as quickly as possible 
in  an  effort  to  safeguard  the  rights  of  employers  and 
employees  alike.  The  code  also  stipulates  deterrent 
penalties  against  anyone  found  guilty  of  human 
trafficking, including prison sentences of up to 15 years 
and significant fines. In some cases, the punishments 
stipulated  by  the  code  are  more  severe  when  crimes 
target women, children or persons with disabilities.
share  with 
the 
international  community  a  source  of  very  grave 
concern — the increase in crimes carried out by armed 
groups  connected  with  human  trafficking  in  conflict 
zones,  targeting  women  and  children  in  particular. 
Such crimes take advantage of the needs of the victims 
and  the  absence  of  proper  structures,  and  represent  a 
challenge  to  the  international  community.  We  must 
cooperate at the international and national levels. With 
this in mind, we call for greater information-sharing on 
those who finance and encourage those crimes.
My  delegation  wishes 
to 
the  United  Nations  and 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
reaffirms  our 
cooperation  with 
the 
international community, in particular on the protection 
of human beings from human trafficking. Penalties that 
dissuade those who might commit these crimes should 
be  encouraged.  The  negative  psychological  effects  on 
victims must also be taken into account.
17-30252
11/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  Chair  of  the  delegation  of  the  United  Republic 
of Tanzania.
Mr. Mero (United Republic of Tanzania): I thank 
the President for the opportunity to make a statement 
on this agenda item. Indeed, this high-level meeting is 
timely, as the world is embarking on a global effort to 
combat trafficking in persons.
It is an undeniable truth that, at some point, each 
country  is  affected  by  acts  of  human  trafficking. 
Women and children are among most vulnerable groups 
affected by this illegal phenomenon. Tanzania, like all 
other countries around the world, sees this as slavery 
in  a  disguised  form.  As  we  convene  to  appraise  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action against Trafficking in Persons, I stand here today 
to testify, on behalf of my Government, to the progress 
made  in  the  implementation  of  legal  instruments  set 
forth to combat trafficking in persons.
legal 
international 
Tanzania has taken various initiatives to complement 
the efforts of the international community in combating 
trafficking  in  persons,  including  the  ratification  of 
the  relevant 
instruments.  The 
Government  enacted  the  Anti-Trafficking  in  Persons 
Act  No.6  in  2008,  which  prohibits  all  forms  of 
trafficking and prescribes punishments for perpetrators 
of  human  trafficking.  The  Act  also  established  the 
National  Anti-Trafficking  in  Persons  Committee  and 
the  Anti-Trafficking  in  Persons  Secretariat,  with  an 
annual budget allocated by the Government to facilitate 
their activities.
The Government has also developed a directory of 
service providers for victims of human trafficking and 
a  manual  for  civil-society  organizations  in  handling 
incidences  of trafficking  in  persons.  In  addition,  the 
Government has established guidelines for safe family 
reunification  for  victims  of  trafficking  and  drawn  up 
a  training  manual  for  law-enforcement  officials  on 
matters related to trafficking in persons. In recognition 
of the importance of data to inform Government action, 
Tanzania’s collaboration with development partners has 
established a national database on trafficking in persons 
as a means to inform policies and allocate funds.
Apart from the preparation of a national action plan 
to  combat  trafficking,  Tanzania  is  also  implementing 
the standard operating procedures for the identification 
of  and  assistance  to  victims  of  trafficking  in  persons 
and  for  protecting,  assisting  and  referring  trafficked 
children. Moreover, Tanzania makes significant efforts 
to  raise  public  awareness  as  a  key  to  increasing  the 
public’s knowledge and understanding of the issues that 
affect the groups most vulnerable to human trafficking.
On behalf of the Government of Tanzania, I wish to 
acknowledge and appreciate the support that Tanzania 
has  been  receiving  from  development  partners  in  the 
fight  against  human  trafficking.  My  country  stands 
ready  to  enhance  partnerships  to  combat  trafficking 
in  persons  as  part  of  our  commitment  to  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which envisions 
leaving  no  one  behind,  including  with  respect  to  this 
particular scourge.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Uruguay.
Mrs.  Carrión  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  thank  the  President  for  convening  this  high-level 
meeting and yesterday’s speakers for their briefings.
While  the  concept  of  slavery  as  it  was  known 
centuries  ago  has  been  abolished,  we  still  face  what 
is  known  as  modern  slavery.  Trafficking  in  persons, 
the  sexual  exploitation  of  children  and  adolescents, 
forced  labour,  forced  marriage  and  debt  bondage  are 
some  aspects  of  that  scourge,  affecting  millions  of 
people around the world. For Uruguay, its eradication 
is  an  extremely  urgent  goal  and  a  priority  within  the 
framework of Sustainable Development Goal 8.7.
Uruguay 
condemns 
emphatically 
trafficking 
in  persons  and  related  crimes  that  seek  to  exploit 
individuals  and  take  advantage  of  their  status  or 
vulnerable  situation,  which  implies  disregarding  their 
human nature and human rights. We must focus on the 
objectives of combating those crimes and guaranteeing 
the  fundamental  rights  of  victims  by  consolidating 
prevention  and  protection  measures  and  mechanisms. 
Uruguay  considers  it  essential  to  give  priority  to  the 
rights  of  victims  of  trafficking,  who  must  be  at  the 
centre of all efforts to prevent and combat that crime 
in order to protect them, provide them with assistance 
and reparation, and ensure that their dignity is restored.
It is also essential to guarantee recognition of the 
universality of human rights, based on the fact that the 
right to equality and non-discrimination is independent 
of  gender,  age,  sexual  orientation  or  identity,  social, 
economic or political status, ethnic or racial origin, or 
other  characteristics  of  the  individual  and  his  or  her 
family or community. It should be borne in mind that 
12/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
no conduct justifies a victim’s submission to conditions 
of exploitation, whether lawful or unlawful, regular or 
irregular, morally accepted or not by the community in 
which the act occurred — not even if it was consensual.
Uruguay  has  made  international  commitments  in 
joining  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish 
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, 
supplementing the United Nations Convention against 
Transnational Organized Crime — also known as the 
Palermo Protocol, which was adopted in 2003. At the 
national  level,  Uruguay  has  been  acting  in  a  focused 
manner,  particularly  since  2008,  with  the  creation 
of  an  inter-institutional  round  table  to  prevent  and 
combat  trafficking  in  persons,  made  up  of  various 
governmental  bodies  and  with  the  participation  of 
organized civil society.
In  recent  years,  the  round  table  has  focused  its 
efforts on drafting a comprehensive bill to prevent and 
combat  trafficking  in  human  beings,  which  will  soon 
be  brought  before  Parliament  for  consideration  and 
approval. In parallel to that process, work is under way 
to  establish  a  plan  to  prevent  and  combat  trafficking 
and exploitation of persons, which will be in force from 
January 2018. It aims to identify specific and integrated 
actions in relation to that violation of human rights.
In conclusion, I should like to emphasize that the 
only way those practices can be prevented, denounced 
and  ultimately  eradicated  is  through  the  cooperation 
of  all  society  at  the  local  and  national  levels.  In 
view  of  the  international  dimension  of  that  crime, 
cooperation  among  States  is  also  essential  to  combat 
trafficking in persons, and to prosecute and condemn 
those responsible.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the Chair of the delegation of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela.
Mr.  Ramírez  Carreño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): At the outset, we wish 
to express our country’s support for the statement made 
by the representative of Egypt on behalf of the Group of 
Friends  United  against  Human  Trafficking  (see  A/72/
PV.24).
Trafficking  in  persons  is  a  despicable  crime  that 
infringes upon human dignity and constitutes a serious 
violation of human rights and all legal regulations on 
that  issue.  We  are  concerned  about  the  international 
increase  in  that  crime,  the  majority  of  whose  victims 
are  women  and  children.  The  various  causes  of  and 
motivations  for  such  crimes  have  been  exacerbated 
in  recent  years  by  poverty,  social  exclusion,  lack  of 
access to education, high rates of youth unemployment, 
increasingly  restrictive  and  exclusive  immigration 
policies,  inadequate  channels  for  regular  migration, 
and armed conflicts in various regions of the planet.
For  Venezuela,  prevention  is  the  cornerstone  of 
the  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons.  Therefore, 
the  comprehensive  approach  to  tackling  this  scourge 
requires  strengthening  social  policies  and  the  fight 
against  poverty  and  exclusion  in  order  to  prevent 
vulnerable  groups —  especially  women  and  children, 
as well as refugees and migrants — from falling into 
networks of organized transnational crime
The  international  community  is  endowed  with 
strong  legal  instruments,  such  as  the  United  Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and 
its  Protocol,  that  need  to  be  effectively  implemented. 
We  also  have  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons, which is an 
important point of reference and progress that sets out 
international commitments to eliminate this scourge.
In  that  context,  the  revision  of  the  Plan  that  is 
being  implemented  this  year  obliges  us  to  reiterate 
and strengthen the resolve of all States to fully comply 
with the indisputable obligation to combat this heinous 
crime  by  bolstering 
its  preventive  mechanisms, 
accountability, data and evidence collection, and, above 
all,  a  frank  and  inclusive  international  dialogue.  It  is 
also necessary to recognize the important role played 
by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
and  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against 
Trafficking in Persons, as well as other entities of the 
United  Nations  system  and  other  intergovernmental 
organizations, within the framework of their mandates.
the 
effective  prevention  and  eradication  of  that  crime 
require 
issue  and 
ensuring broad and democratic discussion spaces that 
ensure  the  full  participation  of  all  Member  States 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  regard,  Venezuela 
reiterates its categorical rejection of unilateral reports 
based  on  subjective  and  political  perceptions,  which 
weaken multilateralism rather than contributing to its 
strengthening,  and  politicize  the  issue,  undermining 
national and international efforts to fight that crime.
the  non-securitization  of 
the 
Venezuela  stresses 
that  efforts  aimed  at 
17-30252
13/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
Among  the  causes  and  motivations  that  have 
exacerbated the rates of this crime in recent years are 
conflict situations and military invasions, especially in 
the Middle East and North Africa. Military occupation 
aimed  at  dismantling  the  institutions  of  the  country 
where  intervention  has  taken  place  leaves  the  entire 
population, as well as migrants, refugees and displaced 
persons at the mercy of criminal gangs who use their 
tragedy and helplessness to abuse them, turning them 
into a commodity to be traded, often for the benefit of 
interest groups or countries that exploit them at will.
The crime of trafficking in persons is not prevalent 
in  Venezuela,  and  our  financial  system  does  not 
benefit  from  the  profits  therefrom.  The  Venezuelan 
legal  framework  related  to  this  matter  is  contained, 
in the first instance, in our Constitution, as well as in 
the different organic laws that ratify the international 
protocols in the matter.
In conclusion, Venezuela reiterates its commitment 
to  respect  and  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human  rights.  We  also  reaffirm  our  commitment  and 
willingness to continue to fulfil our obligations under 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime, and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children, and other international legal instruments 
related to the subject.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Switzerland.
Mr. Zehnder (Switzerland) (spoke in French): This 
meeting  is  an  excellent  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our 
political  commitment  in  the  fight  against  trafficking 
in  human  beings.  The  current  large  migratory  flows 
confront  us  with  new  challenges.  They  require  us 
to  re-evaluate  the  gaps  in  prevention,  protection, 
prosecution  and  partnership,  namely,  the  four  pillars 
designated by the United Nations Global Plan of Action. 
Allow me to raise the following three points.
First,  humanitarian  crises  and  armed  conflict  are 
particular  challenges  in  the  fight  against  trafficking. 
Humanitarian actors are increasingly confronted with 
this phenomenon and have a role to play in prevention 
and protection. It is important that humanitarian actors, 
alongside their development partners, strengthen their 
commitment and coordination in this regard.
Secondly,  it  must  be  clearly  recognized  that 
forced  displacement  and  migration  create  particular 
vulnerabilities  and  opportunities  for  trafficking  and 
exploitation,  including  exploitation  through  labour. 
Loss  of  livelihood,  lack  of  legal  access  to  the  labour 
market  and  high  sums  paid  to  traffickers  are  but  a 
few of the causes that encourage exploitation through 
labour.  In  November  2016  in  Geneva,  Switzerland 
participated  —  with  several  United  Nations  agencies 
and international actors — in a conference on combating 
trafficking in persons for forced labour along migration 
routes. On that occasion, the role of the private sector 
was  brought  up.  Switzerland  supports  the  important 
work of Ms. Giammarinaro, the Special Rapporteur on 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
who  launched  an  initiative  to  strengthen  multiparty 
actions and strategies of the industry coalition.
Thirdly,  on  18  October,  on  the  occasion  of  the 
European  Day  for  Combating  Trafficking  in  Human 
Beings, Switzerland will launch the third week of action 
against trafficking in human beings. Awareness-raising 
activities  will  be  organized  throughout  the  country. 
An  excellent  example  of  partnership,  the  campaign  is 
inspired and coordinated by a group of State actors and 
civil society.
Finally, I would like to conclude by stressing once 
again  the  importance  of  the  ongoing  negotiations 
on  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration.  The  latter  represents  an  opportunity  to 
integrate principles and strategies to combat trafficking 
in  human  beings  in  the  international  dialogue  on 
migration.  Discussions  at  the  start  of  the  month  in 
Vienna  at  the  fifth  thematic  session  on  smuggling  of 
migrants,  trafficking  in  persons  and  contemporary 
forms  of  slavery,  including  appropriate  identification, 
protection  and  assistance  to  migrants  and  trafficking 
victims, have already prepared the ground for this.
The  role  of  civil  society  in  identifying  and 
protecting  victims  of  trafficking  remains  key.  We 
cannot fulfil our mission without it. Thus, Switzerland 
will contribute up to 80,000 Swiss francs to the United 
Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking 
in persons, especially women and children.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Hungary.
Ms.  Bogyay  (Hungary):  Hungary  aligns  itself 
with the statement delivered on behalf of the European 
Union  and  its  member  States  (see  A/72/PV.24)  and 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration  on 
the implementation of the United Nations Global Plan 
14/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons (resolution 
72/1).
Human  trafficking  is  one  of  the  most  horrific 
crimes of our times. It is an open wound on the body 
of humankind. Sadly, it occurs in every country, every 
region,  all  around  the  world  and  is  therefore  a  truly 
outstanding  global  challenge.  Transnational  criminal 
networks  take  advantage  of  the  most  vulnerable  and 
marginalized members of societies. They deprive their 
victims not only of freedom but also of human dignity.
I am convinced that we cannot win this fight alone. 
There  must  be  effective  cooperation  and  partnership 
between the countries of origin, destination and transit, 
as  well  as  among  States,  international  organizations, 
civil society and business groups, including through the 
mechanism  of  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group 
against  Trafficking  in  Persons.  Hungary  believes  in 
dialogue,  in  collaboration  and  coordination  between 
all relevant stakeholders. We have just hosted a panel 
discussion  related  to  human  trafficking  on  protecting 
religious minorities and another one, the United Nations 
Conference  of  the  Global  Sustainability  Network, 
which  has  a  growing  membership  of  more  than  300 
socially  conscious  philanthropists,  businesswomen 
and men, very influential change-makers, movers and 
shakers. The Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 
Trade hosted regional consultations for the Workshop 
of  Alliance  8.7  for  Europe  and  Central  Asia  jointly 
organized by the International Labour Organization.
We  also  believe  that  raising  awareness  is  crucial 
both at the national and global levels. In that respect, 
the  media,  the  advocacy  groups  and  civil  society  are 
important  partners.  This  is  the  reason,  for  example, 
why I hosted the Foreign Press Association Scholarship 
Fund  Awards  in  May,  addressing  the  topic  of  human 
trafficking  and  the  role  of  the  international  media  in 
shining a light on the great moral and societal issues of 
our times. With the same aim of putting modern slavery 
in the spotlight, Hungary works together with different 
media companies, filmmakers and journalists.
Besides  empowering  all  stakeholders  so  that  they 
become conscious consumers, vigilant law-enforcement 
officers, 
trained  humanitarian  and  peacekeeping 
personnel,  dedicated  policymakers  and  safe  Internet 
users, we need to empower the survivors. Today I am 
asking how we can implement the United Nations Global 
Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons more 
effectively. First, our actions need to be tailored to the 
specific case at hand. Our response has to be gender- 
and age-sensitive as well as exploitation-type-specific. 
Secondly,  persecution  and  prevention  should  go 
hand  in  hand.  Thirdly,  collecting  and  analysing  data 
is  of  key  importance.  Fourthly,  investigations  into 
human  trafficking  should  always  include  parallel 
and 
investigations  of 
human-trafficking  networks.  And,  fifthly,  ensuring 
accountability is essential. States should step up their 
efforts aimed at finding perpetrators and bringing them 
to justice.
complementary 
financial 
Our  commitment  is  to  keep  these  issues  on  the 
agenda as a priority, and I encourage Member States to 
engage in strengthened cooperation in law enforcement, 
investigations  and  information-sharing.  We  need  a 
planetary  consciousness  in  this  regard.  We  need  to 
share  our  information,  data  and  knowledge  and  start 
coordinating our actions. Let us work together.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Ireland.
Ms. Nason (Ireland): I am here today because my 
country, Ireland, stands full-square with all who want to 
bring an end to the scourge of the trafficking of people. 
We  applaud  the  convening  of  this  meeting  to  shine  a 
light on the tens of millions of victims worldwide. We 
also join in solidarity and, importantly, with resolve, to 
end  the  horrors  of  exploitation  and  abuse  endured  by 
those victims.
Ireland  aligns  itself  fully  with  the  statement 
delivered by the observer of the European Union (see 
A/72/PV.24).  The  European  Union  and  its  member 
States play a leading role globally in working to prevent 
and combat human trafficking. Ireland also salutes the 
statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of  Panama 
on  behalf  of  the  Human  Security  Network  (see  A/72/
PV.24).
Just under one year ago, Ireland adopted a robust 
national  action  plan  to  prevent  and  combat  human 
trafficking.  We  worked  in  consultation  with  national 
and international partners, including civil society, to set 
out  a  state-of-the-art,  clear,  collaborative  programme 
to  advance  the  fight  against  trafficking  and  also, 
importantly, to enhance the protection of victims.
Our response to human trafficking benefits from the 
rigorous domestic scrutiny and international evaluation 
in which we engage — and I underline — on a regular 
basis. We have created a dedicated State structure and 
17-30252
15/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
enacted  and  updated  major  parts  of  our  legislation  to 
implement the United Nations Global Plan of Action to 
Combat Trafficking in Persons. But through all of that 
work, we remain singularly focused on the paramount 
need to place all victims, but particularly women and 
girls,  who  are  the  majority  of  victims  of  trafficking, 
right  at  the  heart  of  our  response.  We  have  taken  a 
number  of  very  concrete  operational  steps  to  achieve 
that  end,  and  today  I  will  briefly  highlight  just  four 
of those.
Mrs. Pobee (Ghana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
First,  a  dedicated  anti-human-trafficking  unit  has 
been  established  within  our  Department  of  Justice 
and  Equality.  That  unit  is  responsible  for  an  across-
Government coordination policy and response, bringing 
together those State and non-State actors I mentioned 
earlier in partnership.
Secondly,  we  have  in  place  a  centralized  human-
trafficking  investigation  and  coordination  unit  within 
our  national  police  service.  The  unit  has  top-level 
expertise  on  sex  crimes,  child  protection,  Internet 
exploitation,  organized  prostitution  and  associated 
crimes. It engages actively in international police work 
aimed at tackling those gangs that engage in trafficking 
across borders.
Thirdly,  we  have 
a  dedicated 
anti-human-trafficking team within our health service 
that responds to individual victims with dedicated care 
plans for them.
established 
Fourthly,  we  have  a  responsive  national  referral 
mechanism 
that  works  for  suspected  victims  of 
trafficking  and  looks  to  their  immediate  needs  and 
ensures they can avail themselves of ongoing supports 
to  aid  in  their  recovery.  Ireland’s  criminal  justice 
system today also includes prosecution and prevention 
measures  based  on  our  legislation  that  combats  the 
crime of trafficking but also reduces or aims to reduce 
the demand for trafficking.
Another important aspect that we believe leads to 
effective  implementation  is  that  we  are  working  on  a 
true  partnership  basis  in  which  State  and  non-State 
agencies  come  together  in  a  way  that  allows  us  to 
ensure  that  suspected  victims  are  identified  at  the 
earliest  opportunity.  Furthermore,  on  an  ongoing 
basis, we are improving training for those agencies and 
non-governmental  actors  to  raise  public  awareness  of 
the  dimensions  of  this  disaster.  The  anti-trafficking 
work  that  we  do  in  our  non-governmental  sector  is 
supported not just in kind, but also funded by the State 
in many cases. We see the work in Governmental and 
non-governmental  contexts  as  absolutely  fundamental 
and  complementary.  In  sum,  my  country,  Ireland, 
is  doing  everything  in  its  power  to  address  this 
horrific scourge.
I  want  to  finish  by  thanking  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for organizing this valuable meeting. 
In particular, I want to echo the Secretary-General in 
his own powerful concluding remarks yesterday:
“As  long  as  this  crime  exists  we  cannot  tell 
young  people  that  the  future  will  be  better  than 
the  past.  We  cannot  deliver  on  a  world  of  hope 
and  opportunity  for  all,  and  we  dare  not  look  at 
ourselves  without  a  sense  of  abiding  shame.  Now 
is  the  time  to  stand  together  and  stamp  out  this 
abominable practice.” (A/72/PV.24, p.3)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Georgia.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  Trafficking  in  persons, 
especially  women  and  children,  is  among  the  most 
flagrant  violations  of  human  rights  of  our  time.  The 
United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons serves as a major framework for 
promoting a comprehensive, coordinated and consistent 
response  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels to counter human trafficking.
to 
As  a  State  signatory 
the  anti-trafficking 
protocol,  Georgia  reiterates  its  commitment  to  spare 
no effort to prevent trafficking, punish the perpetrators 
and  protect  the  victims.  Our  policy  is  focused  on  the 
so-called four “Ps”: prevention, protection, prosecution 
and partnership. To that end, Georgia has put in place 
a  responsive  legislative  framework.  For  example, 
since  2003,  human  trafficking  has  been  explicitly 
criminalized  under  our  criminal  code.  In  2006,  we 
adopted  the  law  on  combating  trafficking  in  human 
beings, aimed at prevention, protection and prosecution 
of trafficking offenders. In 2012, that law was amended 
to  provide  social  and  legal  protection,  assistance  and 
rehabilitation for child victims, in accordance with the 
recommendation  code  were  refined  to  streamline  the 
investigation process.
We  are  aware 
in 
human  beings  requires  concerted  inter-agency  effort. 
Therefore, in 2006, we created an inter-agency council 
that  combating 
trafficking 
16/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
to act as a major shaper of policy in combating human 
trafficking. The council brings together representatives 
from  all  concerned  line  ministries  and  agencies, 
including  the  Chief  Prosecutor’s  Office  and  Public 
Defender’s  Office,  as  well  as  non-governmental  and 
international organizations.
Our  national  action  plan  for  the  period  2017-
2018  focuses  in  particular  on  proactive  methods  for 
identifying  victims.  To  that  end,  human-trafficking-
inspection  mobile  groups  and  a  related  task  force 
were  set  up,  composed  of  representatives  of  law-
enforcement  agencies  that  regularly  operate  in  high-
risk areas. In addition, we have retrained investigators 
to  develop  their  skills  and  raise  their  awareness  with 
regard to human trafficking. As a result, the number of 
investigations,  prosecutions  and  convictions  has  been 
increasing annually.
Within the institutional arrangements for protecting 
and assisting victims of trafficking in persons, the State 
fund for the protection of and assistance to trafficking 
victims  continues  to  provide  shelters  and  a  crisis 
centre, legal aid, psychological and medical assistance, 
and  victim  rehabilitation  and  reintegration.  We  also 
pay particular attention to the protection of vulnerable 
groups in the population. Children in street situations 
are at the centre of our attention. A number of legislative 
and institutional measures have been taken to provide 
those  children  with  identification  documents,  register 
them  for  State-run  services  and  promote  a  prompt 
response  should  any  violence  be  committed  against 
them.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
emphasize  that  increased  international  efforts  are 
needed  to  protect  the  most  vulnerable  groups  of  the 
population, including internally displaced persons and 
refugees, from trafficking.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  my  country’s 
commitment to further contributing to our joint efforts 
to prevent and combat human trafficking.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Kazakhstan.
Mr. Umarov (Kazakhstan): Kazakhstan welcomes 
the official adoption of the political declaration on the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1).
We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made 
yesterday  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of 
the Group of Friends United against Human Trafficking 
(see A/72/PV.24).
We highly value the active role played by, and the 
contribution  of,  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in  Persons  and  its  coordinator,  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC),  in  providing 
specialized assistance to Member States at their request. 
The  2016  UNODC  Global  Report  on  Trafficking  in 
Persons  confirms  that  this  scourge  is  essentially 
an  international  phenomenon  and  that  cross-border 
trafficking in persons is by and large the consequence 
of  general  migration  flows.  According  to  the  156 
Member States that responded, of most of the victims 
identified worldwide, approximately 60 per cent were 
foreigners or migrants.
As  a  member  of  the  Group  of  Friends  United 
against  Human  Trafficking,  Kazakhstan  supports 
all  international  efforts  aimed  at  counteracting  this 
form of modern slavery and calls on all States to fully 
and  effectively  implement  the  Global  Plan  of  Action. 
Kazakhstan  is  proud  to  be  one  of  the  contributors  to 
the  United  Nations  voluntary  trust  fund  for  victims 
of  trafficking  in  persons,  especially  for  women  and 
children,  and  calls  upon  other  States  for  financial 
support  to  fight  against  trafficking  in  human  beings. 
In  December  2012,  in  his  address  to  the  nation  on 
the  Kazakhstan  2050  Strategy,  President  Nursultan 
Nazarbayev said, “The State should especially severely 
punish  blatant  cases  of  sexual  slavery  and  attitudes 
towards women as a commodity.”
Recognizing  the  need  to  increase  the  State’s 
response  to  human  trafficking  so  as  to  protect  the 
vulnerable  and  bring  perpetrators  to  justice,  the 
Government  of  Kazakhstan  has  developed  numerous 
action  plans  to  combat  human  trafficking.  We  are 
currently  implementing  the  2015-2017  action  plan, 
which  envisages  the  coherent  functioning  of  all  the 
relevant  national  agencies  and  non-governmental 
organizations,  in  line  with  the  political  will  to  end 
impunity  for  traffickers.  To  that  end,  a  national 
inter-agency  coordination  body  has  been  created.  I 
would like to mention just few measures that Kazakhstan 
has undertaken to help victims of trafficking.
We have established a national referral mechanism 
and  introduced  social  standards  to  assist  victims, 
and  we  are  regulating  the  identification  procedure 
for  victims  of  human  trafficking.  Furthermore,  our 
17-30252
17/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
preventive campaign “Stop Traffic” was carried out in 
a systematic manner. Our Government regularly keeps 
track of the activities carried out by modelling, tourist 
and  marriage  agencies  that  offer  foreign  travel  and 
employment services, and monitors mass media and the 
Internet  with  a  view  to  detecting  materials  related  to 
trafficking in persons and child pornography.
It  is  important  to  note  that  our  fight  against  this 
heinous crime is centred on human rights. We are party 
to  and  implement  more  than  60  multilateral  treaties 
on  human  rights,  including  13  directly  related  to 
counteracting  contemporary  forms  of  slavery,  and  we 
are ensuring an integrated approach to combating crime. 
We  are  implementing  a  State  programme  designed  to 
further modernize the law-enforcement system, whose 
main task is to create by 2020 a system that meets high 
international standards.
trafficking  alone,  Kazakhstan 
Aware  that  no  single  actor  can  successfully  fight 
human 
is  actively 
cooperating not only with United Nations entities, but 
also  with  other  international,  regional  organizations 
and  civil  society.  Upon  Kazakhstan’s  initiative,  the 
Special Representative and Coordinator for Combating 
Trafficking  in  Human  Beings  of  the  Organization  for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is planning 
to  conduct  a  regional  multi-stakeholder  simulation 
training  exercise  on  the  identification  of  trafficking 
in human beings at the Central Asian regional hub for 
countering  global  threats  next  year.  We  express  our 
deep appreciation for the work being done by the OSCE 
Special Representative and Coordinator.
With  financial  and  technical  support  from  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration  (IOM)  and 
the  Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  of  Kazakhstan,  the 
Union of Crisis Centres has been running the national 
SOS  hotline  since  2010.  The  IOM  also  supported  the 
publication of the first report on combating trafficking 
in human beings in Kazakhstan, which was prepared by 
the Commission on Human Rights, under the President 
of Kazakhstan.
We hope today’s discussions of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action will help to fulfil our intention to 
turn our words into decisive, concerted action.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of the United Arab Emirates.
Mr.  Alshamsi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs  and  Crime  for  their  comprehensive  reports. 
On  behalf  of  my  country,  I  welcome  the  adoption  of 
the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1).
The United Arab Emirates deals seriously with the 
issue of trafficking in persons, not only at the national 
level but throughout the world, based on our conviction 
that  trafficking  in  persons  constitutes  a  flagrant 
violation of human rights and a serious form of disregard 
for  human,  religious  and  cultural  values.  Because  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  hosts  a  significant  number  of 
temporary  workers  of  many  different  nationalities 
each year, we have committed to working tirelessly to 
combat this crime and counter criminal gangs.
The United Arab Emirates launched its campaign to 
address this crime both nationally and internationally in 
2006, when it started a comprehensive anti-trafficking 
campaign  and  enacted  a  federal  law  on  combating 
trafficking  in  persons.  This  law  was  amended  in 
2015  to  provide  greater  guarantees  for  victims  of 
human  trafficking,  in  line  with  the  Trafficking  in 
Persons Protocol.
In  2008,  the  National  Committee  to  Combat 
Human  Trafficking  was  established. 
includes 
representatives  from  Government  agencies  and  civil-
society organizations and aims at coordinating efforts 
to  combat  human  trafficking  crimes,  strengthening 
strategic  plans  at  various  levels  and  enabling  the 
authorities  to  enforce  laws  and  implement  preventive 
and deterrent measures.
It 
The United Arab Emirates has adopted a national 
strategy  that  comprises  several  aspects.  In  terms 
of  prevention  and  prohibition, 
the  United  Arab 
Emirates  has  enacted  laws  and  legislation  to  combat 
the  trafficking  of  persons.  These  laws  are  regularly 
updated  to  keep  them  in  line  with  the  Trafficking  in 
Persons Protocol and relevant international legislation. 
As part of the efforts to prevent and enhance awareness 
of this crime, a diploma programme on anti-trafficking 
is  being  offered  in  the  United  Arab  Emirates.  The 
programme deals with the crime of human trafficking 
using a scientific approach.
In  terms  of  prosecution  and  punishment,  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  is  committed  to  pursuing  and 
prosecuting the perpetrators of human trafficking. The 
18/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
efforts  of  national  law-enforcement  agencies  have  led 
to the arrest of 106 traffickers to date.
equality  into  account,  tailoring  its  approach  to  the 
needs of women and children.
As to protecting and supporting victims of human 
trafficking,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has  provided 
protection  for  and  guaranteed  the  legal  and  human 
rights  of  the  victims  of  trafficking  and  exploitation 
through  State-sponsored  shelters  and  rehabilitation 
centres.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  also  arranged 
for and facilitated continued residency in the country or 
return to their countries of origin of victims, according 
to  their  circumstances,  while  ensuring  their  safety 
and security.
In conclusion, the United Arab Emirates emphasizes 
the importance and effectiveness of the United Nations 
Global  Plan  of  Action  to  address  this  global  scourge 
and  will  continue  to  cooperate  with  the  international 
community  through  the  exchange  of  information  and 
statistics so as to develop best practices and experiences 
in that regard. In addition, the United Arab Emirates is 
pleased to announce its pledge of $100,000 in financial 
support for the United Nations voluntary trust fund for 
victims  of  trafficking  in  persons,  especially  women 
and children, in order to ensure that the fight against 
trafficking remains a common goal and shared objective 
for all the nations of the world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Honduras.
Ms.  Cerrato  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 
2010, the General Assembly adopted the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. 
We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  systematically  and 
forcefully condemning trafficking.
Trafficking  in  persons  continues  to  be  a  serious 
problem  for  humankind.  It  requires  a  concerted 
international  response  as  well  as  efforts  by  States 
to  develop  and  implement  effective  measures  for 
combating  and  eliminating  trafficking  in  all  of  its 
forms and to strengthen existing measures to eliminate 
the demand for victims of trafficking. The Constitution 
of Honduras states that,
“The human person is the supreme goal of society 
and  the  State.  Everyone  has  the  obligation  to 
respect  and  protect  it.  The  dignity  of  the  human 
being is inviolable.”
As a State party to the United Nations Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
its 
Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and  Children,  and 
in  line  with  those  obligations,  Honduras  has  had 
legislation against trafficking in place since 2012. This 
legislation penalizes all forms of the crime, including 
the recruitment of young people for criminal activities.
It is important to highlight the fact that the United 
Nations has taken note of the decline of the homicide 
rate  in  Honduras.  During  his  visit  to  the  country  in 
January 2015, former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 
acknowledged the Government’s measures to improve 
the  security  situation  and  noted  that  the  homicide 
rate  had  significantly  decreased  since  2013  —  from 
86  homicides  out  of  every  100,000  people  to  66. 
Furthermore, the Government of the Republic created 
an  inter-institutional  commission  against  commercial 
sexual  exploitation  and  trafficking  in  persons  that 
comprises  Government  institutions  and  civil-society 
organizations  that  play  a  key  role  in  preventing  and 
combating  human  trafficking.  In  addition,  a  plan  of 
action  has  been  developed  and  implemented  and  will 
remain in force until 2022.
In  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and 
Migrants,  we  committed  to  using  all  of  the  means 
at  our  disposal  to  strive  to  counter  the  abuses  and 
exploitation  that  countless  refugees  and  migrants  in 
vulnerable  situations  are  suffering.  The  journeys  that 
are being undertaken every day increase the likelihood 
that  these  people  will  fall  victim  to  criminal  groups. 
Consequently,  Honduras  has  implemented  measures 
to  improve  the  identification  and  protection  of  and 
assistance to victims of trafficking. One such measure 
is the strengthening of consular offices on the migratory 
route in Mexico and the United States of America.
We  should  not  forget  that  the  purpose  of  the 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime is 
to establish and promote global, regional, subregional 
and  bilateral  cooperation  to  prevent  and  combat 
transnational  organized  crime  more  effectively. 
Accordingly, we acknowledge that if countries act in a 
coordinated manner, criminal networks will ultimately 
be undone.
We acknowledge that all anti-trafficking measures and 
initiatives must not discriminate or fail to take gender 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  the 
Chair of the delegation of Viet Nam.
17-30252
19/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
Mrs.  Nguyen  (Viet  Nam):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to thank the President of the General Assembly for 
convening this important high-level meeting.
Viet Nam welcomes the adoption of resolution 72/1, 
on  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
Trafficking  in  persons  is  a  heinous  crime  that 
violates human rights and human dignity and poses a 
serious challenge to peace, security and development. 
Viet  Nam  strongly  condemns  and  resolutely  combats 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
and  related  transnational  crimes,  by  implementing 
various  comprehensive  policies  and  measures,  in  line 
with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
Accordingly,  I  would  like  to  highlight  five  of  those 
policies and measures.
First, we have already ratified the United Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and 
its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and  Children.  Our 
Government  has  amended  the  national  penal  code  to 
criminalize  trafficking  in  persons  in  all  its  forms. 
We  have  established  an  inter-agency  mechanism  for 
coordination  and  are  implementing  a  national  four-
year  anti-trafficking  action  plan  for  2016-2020,  with 
a  focus  on  preventing,  investigating,  prosecuting  and 
punishing  crimes  of  trafficking  in  persons  and  on 
assisting victims.
Secondly, to address the root causes of the problem, 
we  have  actively  implemented  numerous  programmes 
on  poverty  reduction,  education,  employment,  female 
empowerment  and  child  protection.  Using  the  media 
and  the  Internet,  we  have  made  great  efforts  to  raise 
people’s  awareness,  particularly  among  potential 
victims and in areas where human traffickers are active.
Thirdly, trafficked victims are placed at the centre 
of our policies and actions. We have established hotlines 
to receive information and created temporary shelters 
to  protect  and  assist  victims.  Support  is  provided  to 
victims to help them rebuild their lives through various 
rehabilitation and reintegration programmes, including 
food  and  medical  services,  vocational  training  and 
psychological counselling, and legal consultations.
Fourthly, we impose severe and punitive measures 
to  combat  the  horrendous  trafficking  phenomenon. 
Perpetrators are prosecuted, convicted and sentenced, 
receiving punishment in the form of three to 20 years 
of imprisonment.
Fifthly,  we  attach  great  importance  to  regional 
approaches and mechanisms and actively promote the 
implementation of the Bali Process on People Smuggling, 
Trafficking  in  Persons  and  Related  Transnational 
Crime, the Coordinated Mekong Ministerial Initiative 
Against  Trafficking  and  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  Convention  against  Trafficking  in 
Persons, Especially Women and Children. We have also 
signed anti-trafficking memorandums of understanding 
with China and Cambodia with a view to cooperating 
in  the  identification  of  victims  and  the  prosecution 
of traffickers.
Trafficking in persons affects almost all countries, 
be they countries of origin, transit or destination. We 
call on the global community to enhance cooperation 
to combat trafficking in persons, as no country can do 
it alone.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Viet Nam’s 
commitment to working closely with the United Nations 
and other partners to turn our declaration into actions 
that end this heinous crime.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of El Salvador.
Mr.  Jaime  Calderón  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): It is an honour for me to be able to address 
this high-level meeting to appraise the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
El  Salvador  welcomes  the  significant  progress 
made  at  the  regional  and  global  levels  in  combating 
human  trafficking.  At  the  same  time,  it  recognizes 
that we continue to face numerous challenges in terms 
of  successfully  combating  this  global  scourge  and 
attending effectively and expeditiously to its victims.
We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  ensuring  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all  without  any 
discrimination  whatsoever,  while  placing  special 
emphasis on the protection and restitution of the rights 
of  victims  of  trafficking.  In  that  regard,  El  Salvador, 
through its 2003 ratification of the Protocol to Prevent, 
Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially 
Women  and  Children,  supplementing 
the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime, undertook significant steps towards preventing, 
investigating  and  punishing  the  crime  of  human 
20/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
trafficking, and towards focusing on restoring victims’ 
rights.
at  the  national  level,  and  show  greater  cooperation  at 
both national and international levels.
In  2004,  trafficking  in  persons  was  added  to  the 
penal code, and, in 2005 the national committee against 
trafficking in persons was established. The committee 
was  operational  until  2011,  when  it  was  replaced  by 
the  national  council  against  trafficking  in  persons,  to 
become  the  office  responsible  for  the  prevention  of 
trafficking and the comprehensive care of victims. In 
2012,  the  council  adopted  our  national  policy  against 
trafficking  in  persons,  which  set  guidelines  for  the 
institutions  responsible  for  its  implementation  and 
ensured  the  formulation  and  implementation  of  a 
national plan.
In  2014,  the  special  law  against  trafficking  in 
persons  was  adopted.  The  law  went  into  effect  in 
January 2015 and established the modalities of action 
for  the  national  policy  against  trafficking  in  persons, 
thereby reinforcing the ways in which the policy against 
trafficking, which had already been in force since 2012, 
could  be  implemented.  This  normative  framework 
promotes concrete actions designed to identify possible 
cases  of  human 
through  awareness-
raising activities as well as to prevent such cases. The 
framework also comprises concrete measures focused 
on providing care for victims as well as protecting and 
restoring their rights — the ultimate goal in that regard 
being  the  unconditional  respect  for  human  rights  that 
have been violated.
trafficking 
We  have  also  run  campaigns,  such  as  the  “The 
path of life is not always what you may imagine” and 
“Trafficking in women is a crime: let us raise our voice” 
campaigns,  which  were  launched  in  cooperation  with 
the regional coalition against trafficking in persons and 
migrant  smuggling.  Similarly,  the  Attorney  General’s 
Office is now endowed with a specialized prosecutorial 
unit  for  crimes  involving  illegal  trafficking  and 
trafficking in persons. The Office has also established 
an alert system called “Missing Angel”, which helps to 
locate children and adolescents who have disappeared, 
possibly  owing  to  trafficking  in  persons.  The  system 
provides  the  public  with  a  toll-free  telephone  number 
for people to call and report cases of trafficking.
Trafficking 
in  persons  affects  practically  all 
countries  of  the  world,  whether  they  are  a  point  of 
origin, transit or destination, It is therefore important 
that we coordinate efforts to combat this crime, bring 
about a more effective implementation of the Protocol 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Bahrain.
Mr. Alrowaiei (Bahrain) (spoke in Arabic): I thank 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  having 
convened this extremely important high-level meeting.
My delegation welcomes the adoption of the political 
declaration on the implementation of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
(resolution 72/1). For us, the declaration represents an 
important step forward in finding a collective response 
to this multidimensional phenomenon. We should also 
strive to achieve the rapid implementation of the goals 
set  forth  in  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action 
against Trafficking in Persons, contained in resolution 
64/293, as well as the relevant Sustainable Development 
Goals and their targets, in particular Goal 8 and target 
8.7.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  has  ratified  a  number 
of  declarations  aimed  at  combating  this  phenomenon, 
including  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational Organized Crime and its supplementary 
Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in 
Persons, Especially Women and Children. Furthermore, 
in 2007, we adopted a national law to combat trafficking 
in  persons.  This  law  defines  what  constitutes  human 
trafficking  and  entails  severe  punishments  for  any 
individual or entity guilty of exploiting or trafficking 
workers. We have also established a national commission 
aimed  at  combating  human  trafficking,  which  is  an 
effective  mechanism  for  ensuring  the  physical  and 
mental well-being of victims and providing them with 
the physical protection they need.
In 2015, we inaugurated a service and support centre 
for  foreigners  as  well  as  a  hotline  in  eight  different 
languages  for  people  to  report  cases  of  trafficking. 
We  also  published  a  guide  that  was  translated  into 
various  languages  and  distributed  to  foreign  workers 
upon  their  arrival  in  the  Kingdom  to  inform  them  of 
their rights and the communications channels open to 
them. Furthermore, the national committee to combat 
trafficking  in  persons  set  up  a  national  programme 
to  bring  together  the  relevant  authorities  to  address 
cases of human trafficking. It is a unique system at the 
regional  level  which  allows  us  to  reinforce  measures 
taken  at  the  international  level  by  defining  the  roles 
of  the  various  parts  of  the  mechanism  that  deals 
17-30252
21/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
with  presumed  or  proven  cases  of  human  trafficking, 
including  their  prosecution.  An  executive  office  was 
also  established,  bringing  together  representatives  of 
various  Government  and  other  public  entities,  and  is 
aimed at ensuring cooperation with the private sector, 
as  well  as  raising  awareness.  Given  the  scope  of  the 
phenomenon,  we  have  organized  a  number  of  various 
activities, seminars, conferences and workshops on the 
subject so as to raise awareness.
We are well aware of the harmful effects of armed 
conflict  in  various  regions  throughout  the  world  and 
their  implications  in  terms  of  human  trafficking  in 
particular and of human rights in general. We therefore 
firmly  believe  in  the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts 
so as to help us combat trafficking and allow victims 
to  recover  their  rights  and  ensure  their  well-being. 
My  country  was  one  of  the  first  to  support  the  call 
for  action  to  end  forced  labour,  modern  slavery  and 
trafficking in persons. We remain committed to ending 
that phenomenon.
We reiterate the importance of cooperation among 
Member States, agencies and the relevant authorities, in 
particular the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, 
the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Refugees,  the  International  Labour  Organization,  the 
International Organization for Migration and all other 
relevant United Nations agencies. Such cooperation will 
allow us to respond rapidly to the challenges we face. 
Cooperation in implementing the Global Plan of Action, 
including in collecting, analysing and sharing data, will 
enable  States,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
international  agencies  to  share  necessary  information 
in  a  focused  and  timely  manner,  thereby  enabling 
the  relevant  authorities  to  respond  effectively  to  the 
phenomenon  of  human  trafficking,  raising  awareness 
among the public in general, facilitating the prosecution 
of the perpetrators of such crimes, and supporting the 
process of identifying victims.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Foreign Secretary of Maldives.
Mr.  Sareer  (Maldives):  Let  me  express  my 
appreciation to the President of the General Assembly 
for  convening  this  very  crucial  and  timely  meeting. 
This  is  an  important  opportunity  to  generate  further 
political momentum for the rapid implementation of the 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
It is also timely against a backdrop where millions 
of  people  are  moving  across  the  globe  in  the  hope  of 
escaping poverty and conflict but are increasingly and 
unwillingly  falling  into  the  hands  of  smugglers  and 
traffickers. Trafficking in persons is an inhumane and 
criminal  activity  that  tears  families  apart  and  fuels 
violence.  It  is  a  transnational  organized  crime  that 
targets the most vulnerable.
Despite  the  inherently  cruel  nature  of  the  crime, 
the increased number of trafficking cases is alarming. 
There are more than 500 trafficking flows in operation 
today,  moving  men,  women,  and  children  within  and 
across borders. It is estimated that a disturbing 79 per 
cent  of  trafficking  victims  are  women  and  children. 
When  women  and  children  are  lured  by  promises  of 
decent  employment,  they  are  sexually  exploited  and 
tortured if they try to escape. This is modern slavery, 
and  slavery  should  not  be  allowed  in  our  modern 
civilized world.
It is for that reason that we, as Member States, must 
do more. The Government of President Abdulla Yameen 
Abdul Gayoom remains committed to the global fight 
to prevent trafficking in persons in line with the Global 
Plan of Action. Last year, the Maldives acceded to the 
Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in Persons, especially Women and Children, in an effort 
to reinforce the implementation of existing instruments 
against trafficking in persons.
As  required  by  the  Anti-Trafficking  Act  of  the 
Maldives  enacted  in  2013,  an  Oversight  Committee 
has  been  established  to  steer  policy  effectively  and 
implement legislation. In a further effort to address the 
issue comprehensively, the first National Action Plan to 
prevent  trafficking  in  persons  was  formulated  for  the 
period  2015-2019.  The  Plan  underscores  the  necessity 
of  strengthening  partnerships  with  the  international 
community in order to combat that crime.
The  Government  of  Maldives 
is  at  present 
conducting new baseline studies in collaboration with 
international partners so that we can better understand 
the  problem.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  strengthening 
our  training  programmes  so  that  law-enforcement 
agencies are better equipped and can create the know-
how to better identify victims. We have also established 
a mechanism to provide support and shelter for victims. 
As a result of those efforts, the Maldives has achieved 
recognition and recently gained more credibility under 
international benchmark-setting platforms.
Trafficking  in  persons  must  be  addressed  in  a 
multidisciplinary  and  comprehensive  manner.  The 
22/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
Government  of  Maldives  is  in  complete  agreement 
that  the  Global  Action  Plan  and  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  should  go  hand  in  hand, 
and we recognize that the specific targets of the 2030 
Agenda will help to implement the Global Action Plan 
more  rapidly  and  effectively.  We  are  also  of  the  view 
that the menace of human trafficking can be eradicated 
only if we, the Member States, join hands to strengthen 
our partnership coordination efforts.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Iceland.
Mr.  Gunnarsson  (Iceland):  Iceland  is  pleased 
to  participate  in  today’s  meeting,  as  it  gives  us  an 
opportunity to restate our firm commitment to the fight 
against  human  trafficking.  It  is  a  particularly  cruel 
crime to prey on those who cannot defend themselves 
and  to  separate  them  from  their  loved  ones  for  the 
purpose of benefiting from their vulnerability.
The  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Person  is  a  vital  complement 
to the important legal standards of the United Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, in 
particular its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish 
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. 
Together those documents create a framework for our 
joint action to combat trafficking through prevention, 
prosecution, protection and partnerships.
No country in the world is immune to trafficking 
in  human  beings,  and  that  includes  my  own  country, 
Iceland.  That  speaks  to  the  importance  of  prevention 
as  a  key  part  of  our  efforts,  responding  to  demands 
that  cannot  be  neglected.  We  also  need  to  train  our 
police officers, airport staff and even flight attendants 
to  recognize  the  signs  of  human  trafficking  in  close 
cooperation  with  civil-society  partners  working  on 
that  issue.  Combating  human  trafficking  requires  the 
awareness of society as a whole if we are to effectively 
address it.
It is also important to underline in this forum not 
only  cooperation  on  this  topic  but  also  the  important 
role that regional actors play in coordinating action. I 
would here like to highlight the important work that the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
is undertaking to address trafficking, both as a security 
threat and as a human rights issue.
Let  us  not  forget  the  victims  and  survivors,  who 
face  multiple  forms  of  discrimination  owing  to  their 
status,  hampering  their  ability  to  seek  justice.  In 
Iceland  we  recently  opened  a  one-stop  shop  offering 
free comprehensive services for victims and survivors 
of  abuse,  including  trafficking,  bringing  all  actors 
together  in  support  of  those  affected.  We  must  seek 
innovative ways to assist those who have been subjected 
to that heinous crime and ensure that their human rights 
are protected.
Trafficking  is  a  classic  example  of  an  issue  that 
requires cooperation across borders. Let us work across 
all barriers to eradicate that terrible crime.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Burkina Faso.
Mr.  Tiare  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French): 
Burkina  Faso  welcomes  this  high-level  meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  also  welcomes  yesterday’s 
adoption  by  consensus  of  the  political  declaration  on 
the Implementation of the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons (resolution 
72/1).
In  adopting 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action 
to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  on  12  August  2010, 
the  international  community  made  promoting  the 
universal ratification of the United Nations Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime  one  of  its 
objectives.  That  includes  the  additional  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially Women and Children, as well as the relevant 
international instruments related to human trafficking 
and the national, regional and international promotion 
of  comprehensive,  coherent  and  consistent  action 
against that crime.
But  where  are  we  today,  seven  years  after  the 
adoption  of  this  Global  Plan  of  Action?  That  is  an 
important question that needs to be asked, as the Plan 
must be regularly assessed, so that we can identify its 
achievements, shortcomings and prospects in order to 
better fight trafficking in persons.
Still  today,  human  beings  —  particularly  women 
and  children  —  continue  to  be  subjected  to  violence 
of  all  kinds  throughout  the  world.  That  is  the  bitter 
truth.  Burkina  Faso,  considered  a  transit  and  transfer 
country, has not been spared the phenomenon of human 
trafficking,  and  voted  in  2008  —  before  the  Global 
Plan  of  Action  was  even  adopted  in  2010  —  to  pass 
a law in favour of fighting trafficking in persons and 
similar practices.
17-30252
23/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
We also committed, alongside other States affected 
by  that  issue,  to  an  agreement  at  the  regional  and 
subregional  levels  in  collaboration  with  international 
organizations with the aim of eradicating that form of 
modern slavery. In addition to legislative and regulatory 
measures,  the  Government  is  undertaking  a  wide 
range of awareness-raising activities to deter, unmask, 
apprehend and prosecute those who seek to profit from 
trafficking in their fellow human beings.
Such  actions  are  being  carried  out  by  regional 
vigilance and surveillance committees throughout the 
13 regions and provincial oversight committees in the 
45 provinces. Those committees, composed of regional 
and  provincial  officials  and  community  leaders,  are 
responsible for coordinating, monitoring and evaluating 
regional  programmes  and  plans  relating  to  the  fight 
against trafficking in persons.
enforcement 
human-trafficking 
legislation  is  a  major  challenge  to  our  efforts  to  end 
trafficking  in  persons.  That  is  why  Burkina  Faso 
remains convinced that no single country can win that 
fight  alone —  it  requires  a  synergy  of  actions  among 
States  in  addition  to  existing  national  legislative  and 
regulatory measures.
Effective 
of 
In that context, Burkina Faso welcomes the adoption 
of the political declaration and reiterates its readiness 
to work continuously with other Member States for the 
successful implementation of the Global Plan of Action 
to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Rwanda.
Mr. Rutikanga (Rwanda): I thank the President for 
convening this important high-level meeting.
It is now seven years since the General Assembly 
adopted  resolution  64/293,  aptly  entitled  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons.  It  is  therefore  worth  assembling  today  to 
reflect and, most important, appraise how far we have 
moved  in  the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of 
Action. Trafficking in persons is a kind of transnational 
organized crime. As it is, to a large extent, transnational 
in nature, it necessitates national, regional and global 
strategies to combat, prevent and suppress it. Rwanda is 
a State party to the United Nations Convention against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  its  subsequent 
Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in Persons, Especially Women and Children.
Building  on  those  tools  and  guided  by  resolution 
72/1,  which  includes  the  political  declaration  on  the 
Implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  which  we 
adopted  yesterday,  we  have  the  necessary  framework 
and  tools  to  effectively  trace  the  human-trafficking 
lords. As the Secretary-General commented yesterday, 
we  have  not  yet  imprisoned  the  human-trafficking 
lords.  Likewise,  we  have  not  seen  human-trafficking 
proceeds freeze. We should be able to cut the flows of 
illicit  money  to  those  criminals.  Unless  we  treat  the 
beneficiaries of that abominable crime as high-profile 
criminals  and  develop  legally  binding  instruments 
and  effective  mechanisms  to  track  them,  freeze  and 
confiscate theirs assets and hold them accountable for 
their crimes, we will not put an end to that heinous crime.
Our experience shows that most of the victims are 
young  people.  They  fall  into  the  human-trafficking 
trap  by  being  deceived  and  promised  decent  jobs  in 
the  countries  of  destination.  Poverty,  unemployment, 
marginalization  and  many  other  issues  that  fuel  the 
problem  have  been  mentioned.  In  that  respect,  we 
need  to  deliver  on  the  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
commitments  —  to  provide  decent  job  opportunities, 
empower young people, enhance gender empowerment 
and  create  equal  opportunities  for  all.  That  will 
effectively reduce people’s vulnerability to trafficking.
In Rwanda, we are cooperating with other Member 
States  in  the  region  and  beyond  through  special  law-
enforcement  agencies,  non-State  organizations  such 
as  INTERPOL,  and  other  United  Nations  organs  on 
how  we  can  collectively  combat  that  vice.  In  August 
2016,  Rwanda  law-enforcement  agents,  in  partnership 
with  INTERPOL,  conducted  an  assimilated  exercise 
session against transnational crimes such as terrorism, 
the narcotics trade and human trafficking, in which 13 
countries  from  the  region  participated.  The  purpose 
of  the  exercise  was  to  reach  a  harmonized  level  of 
understanding  of  the  nature  of  human  trafficking 
and  forge  a  harmonized  administrative  procedure  in 
combating human trafficking.
The  Rwanda  National  Police  and  Rwanda 
Immigration  closely  cooperate  with  their  counterpart 
institutions  in  the  region.  Rwanda  law-enforcement 
agents closely collaborate with the Uganda police and 
Kenya police. As a result, between 2014 and 2016, 150 
victims were prevented from being trafficked.
24/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
My 
country  has 
initiated  public-awareness 
campaigns  and  programmes,  and  all  relevant  organs 
are  cooperating  to  design  outreach  programmes.  We 
have also established a mechanism to protect victims, 
witnesses  and  whistle-blowers.  The  Government 
established the Isange one-stop centre as a rehabilitation 
centre for all victims of sexual abuse, sexual exploitation 
and gender-based violence, which helps the victims who 
have been affected by the scourge of human trafficking.
Finally, human trafficking is mostly transnational 
in nature. Along with the other bilateral arrangements 
that  exist  among  Member  States  to  combat  human 
trafficking,  we  should  not  forget  to  make  use  of 
INTERPOL  platforms  and  databases.  INTERPOL 
tools,  such  as  the  I-24/7  system,  certainly  provide 
critical  information  securely  and  in  a  short  period 
of time.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Bangladesh.
the  political  declaration  on 
Mr.  Rahman  (Bangladesh):  Human  trafficking 
pollutes  our  surroundings.  Bangladesh  welcomes 
the  adoption  of 
the 
Implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1)  on  the  appraisal  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We  thank  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Belgium  and  Qatar  for 
accommodating some of our concerns.
In  today’s  conflict  situations,  refugees  and  other 
forcibly  displaced  persons  remain  at  a  heightened 
risk  of  trafficking  and  exploitation.  Indeed,  human 
trafficking  during  conflicts,  including  by  terrorists, 
has emerged as one of the most serious human rights 
issues of our time.
In  the  last  month,  Bangladesh  has  witnessed  an 
unprecedented influx of nearly 500,000 people — mostly 
Rohingyas from Myanmar’s Rakhine state. We remain 
concerned  by  the  possibility  of  the  large  number 
of  women  and  children  in  that  group  falling  prey 
to 
traffickers  and  people-smugglers  who  operate 
regionally. In order to avoid a repeat of the Andaman 
Sea  crisis  in  2015,  we  urge  Myanmar  to  address  the 
root causes of the dire situation in Rakhine state and all 
regional countries to remain vigilant against organized 
criminal  networks  and  prevent  them  from  taking 
advantage of the dark humanitarian situation prevailing 
in the area.
In view of our situation, as a country of origin, transit 
and  destination,  our  Prime  Minister,  Sheikh  Hasina, 
maintains  a  zero-tolerance  approach  to  trafficking  in 
persons and people smuggling. Bangladesh has enacted 
the Human Trafficking Deterrence and Suppression Act 
of 2012 and has adopted a national plan of action for 2015 
to 2017 to implement a comprehensive law. We remain 
focused on further improving our prevention capacity 
through  data  collection,  anti-trafficking  information 
campaigns  with 
the  help  of  non-governmental 
organization partnerships and with the prosecution and 
early conclusion of trafficking cases.
At 
the  regional 
level,  we  have  spearheaded 
initiatives to broaden and institutionalize the scope of 
counter-trafficking  operations  under  the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  and  the  Bay  of 
Bengal  Initiative  for  Multi-Sectoral  Technical  and 
Economic  Cooperation.  Bangladesh  remains  active 
within  the  Group  of  Friends  United  against  Human 
Trafficking  and,  during  the  General  Assembly  high-
level week, joined the United Kingdom’s call to action 
to  end  forced  labour,  modern  slavery  and  human 
trafficking, pursuant to Sustainable Development Goal 
target 8.7.
Bangladesh also underscores the need for reducing 
cross-border  trafficking  flows  as  part  of  the  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration. 
We  joined  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees 
and  Migrants  in  2016  to  that  end.  With  regard  to 
implementing  the  Global  Plan  of  Action,  we  urge  the 
Secretary-General to enhance the profile, relevance and 
visibility of the work of the Inter-Agency Coordination 
Group  against  Trafficking  in  Persons  for  Member 
States, including through the possibility of designating 
a high-level focal person.
The Security Council’s political and humanitarian 
consideration  of  specific  conflict  situations  should 
be  informed  by  evidence  on  any  emerging  trend  in 
trafficking in persons and related crimes. The United 
Nations Voluntary Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking 
in  Persons  needs  to  be  supported  in  a  sustained  and 
predictable  manner.  Despite  significant  gains  in  the 
legal  sphere,  the  rate  of  prosecution  and  conviction 
still remains relatively low around the world. We urge 
Member  States  to  continue  working  on  developing 
effective  intelligence  networks  at  the  regional  and 
international  levels  to  monitor  and  intercept  human 
trafficking  and 
illicit 
financial flows.
related  crimes, 
including 
17-30252
25/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
In 
conclusion,  Bangladesh 
its 
commitment  to  work  together  with  Member  States 
to  further  strengthen  the  United  Nations  coordinated 
response and action against trafficking in persons.
reaffirms 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of China.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
Trafficking  in  persons  is  a  significant  problem  at  the 
global level from which no country is immune. China 
strongly  condemns  trafficking  in  persons,  especially 
women  and  children,  and  calls  upon  the  international 
community to focus its efforts on the following areas:
First, it is essential to comprehensively implement 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development, 
promote  economic  and  social  development,  work  to 
eradicate  poverty,  and  uphold  equity  and  justice  in 
order to eliminate the breeding ground for the crime of 
human trafficking.
Secondly,  it  is  essential  to  establish  and  improve 
working mechanisms that are led by Governments and 
ensure the participation of the whole of society with a 
view  to  preventing  and  combating  human  trafficking 
and  providing  relief  and  rehabilitation  to  the  victims, 
with  the  goal  of  forming  a  well-functioning  society-
wide management setup.
Thirdly,  it  is  essential  to  strengthen  international 
cooperation in law enforcement, fully leverage the role 
of  regional  and  subregional  organizations,  exchange 
intelligence  and  information  in  a  timely  manner, 
effectively conduct mutual assistance in criminal justice 
and severely punish perpetrators of human trafficking.
Fourthly,  it  is  essential  to  effectively  safeguard 
the legitimate rights and interests of victims and work 
harder to provide them with rescue and relief, protection, 
rehabilitation and settlement, with the focus on helping 
them get reintegrated into families and societies.
Attaching  great  importance  to  combating  human 
trafficking, the Chinese Government has been working 
hard  to  implement  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and  Children,  supplementing 
the  United  Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. In 
2007  and  2013  respectively,  the  Chinese  Government 
promulgated  and  started  implementing  the  Plan  of 
Action  against  Trafficking  in  Women  and  Children 
in  China  (2008-2012)  and  the  Plan  of  Action  against 
Trafficking in Persons in China (2013-2020). In 2009, 
in  a  bid  to  refine  the  existing  working  mechanism 
featuring  Government  leadership  and  broad-based 
social  participation,  an  Interministerial  Joint  Meeting 
System for Combating Human Trafficking, consisting 
of  33  departments,  was  established  under  the  State 
Council  of  China,  thus  providing  a  solid  systemic 
guarantee for preventing and combating trafficking in 
persons and assisting and protecting the victims.
Combating  trafficking  in  persons  is  an  urgent 
common  task  for  the  international  community.  China 
stands  ready  to  work  with  other  Member  States  and 
make concerted efforts to comprehensively implement 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  (A/72/1),  thus  contributing  to 
the harmony and shared progress of humankind.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Iraq.
Mr.  Al-Khaqani  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation 
thanks  everyone  who  has  contributed 
actively to the drawing up of the political declaration on 
the Implementation of the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons (resolution 
72/1).
Member States managed to reach a consensus after 
long deliberations on the paragraphs of the declaration, 
which are of great concern given the sensitive nature of 
this subject for some countries affected by trafficking 
in persons. They are also of concern for other countries 
that  face  terrorism  and  believe  that  that  subject  has 
become one of the tools used by terrorist organizations 
to achieve inhuman objectives.
the 
increasing 
Iraq  has  expressed  its  position  on  the  need  to 
indicate  clearly  in  one  of  the  paragraphs  of  the 
declaration 
relationship  between 
terrorists  and  human  trafficking.  We  have  indicated 
that the political declaration expresses the political will 
at  the  international  level  to  combat  intercontinental 
terrorism,  which 
threatens  secure  societies.  We 
have  also  stressed  the  importance  of  banning  human 
trafficking  and  not  allowing  terrorist  groups  to  take 
hostages  from  one  country  to  another.  It  is  therefore 
a  common  responsibility.  We  must  work  together  to 
fight  that  phenomenon.  Trafficking  in  persons  and 
other violations and abuses are committed by terrorists 
to  enslave  people  and  to  exact  servitude  and  sexual 
exploitation. Those are the methods that we see at work 
in the region.
26/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
Iraq  has  suffered  from  such  crimes,  which  are 
being  committed  by  terrorist  groups  such  as  Da’esh. 
Those  terrorist  groups  have  kidnapped  thousands 
of  Iraqi  citizens,  in  particular  innocent  women  and 
children  from  among  the  Yazidis.  They  have  been 
reduced to slaves and have been the subject of the worst 
forms of degrading and inhuman treatment. Given our 
responsibilities  to  bring  the  perpetrators  of  the  worst 
crimes  against  the  Iraqi  people,  my  country,  Iraq,  to 
justice, working with its international partners, wrote a 
letter to the Secretary-General on 9 August 2017 asking 
for international assistance. The Security Council also 
adopted  resolution  2379  (2017),  which  called  for  the 
gathering of evidence, for reinforcing capacity-building 
and for ensuring the prosecution of Da’esh fighters.
Iraq  has  therefore  made  a  crucial  contribution 
towards  accountability  and  towards  ensuring  that 
criminals  are  tried  and  justice  provided  to  victims. 
We  call  for  Member  States  to  implement  the  relevant 
resolutions,  in  particular  Security  Council  resolution 
2195 (2014), in which the Council expressed its concern 
about exploitation by terrorist groups, organized crime 
groups and weapons traffickers.
We  also  call  on  all  States  to  discharge  their 
commitment  to  strengthen  their  efforts  to  identify 
trafficking operations and to stop them by any means 
necessary. We call for people to fight that phenomenon 
through constructive cooperation between all countries 
at  the  political,  economic  and  security  levels.  We  are 
dealing  with  a  global  phenomenon.  No  country  can 
fight it effectively if the international community does 
not demonstrate its clear will to act together.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Jordan.
Ms.  Bahous  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan welcomes the adoption 
of  the  political  declaration  on  the  Implementation  of 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Persons (resolution 72/1), following resolution 64/293, 
of  2010.  It  is  a  demonstration  of  the  strong  political 
will on the part of the international community to take 
action  and  put  an  end  to  such  heinous  crimes.  Such 
phenomena  pose  a  threat  to  human  beings  and  are 
gravely  concerning  for  the  international  community, 
since they constitute a violation of human dignity and 
fundamental human rights.
Furthermore, recent terrorist groups have practiced 
various forms of modern slavery on a major scale and 
in a systematic manner. The worst kind of trafficking 
in  persons  affects  the  rights  of  people  of  all  ethnic 
groups and all religions. That is why the international 
community  must  combat  such  phenomena  effectively 
through  all  means  possible.  Trafficking  in  persons 
heightens conflicts, especially those of a religious and 
ethnic  nature.  It  also  leads  to  violent  reactions  and  a 
serious downward spiral of violence, against which the 
international community must fight.
The  unprecedented  waves  of  refugees  throughout 
the  world  have  led  to  a  large  number  of  victims  of 
trafficking, according to the annual report of the United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC).  The 
increase was seen primarily in countries experiencing 
conflicts, such as Syria, Iraq and Somalia, but also in 
Europe,  Asia  and  other  countries  in  the  Middle  East. 
That is why we must reach political solutions in order 
to  end  all  such  conflicts  and  ensure  that  people  are 
given back their dignity. Our duty as members of the 
international community is to address such phenomena 
from  a  global  perspective  and  not  to  focus  only  on 
hotspots on the planet. We must also work at a regional 
level to counter such phenomena.
International and interregional groups such as the 
Human Security Network, of which Jordan is a member, 
play an essential role when it comes to awareness-raising 
and cooperation. What we are dealing with is not just a 
political issue; trafficking also affects development. In 
the framework of our efforts, we must take into account 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, especially 
when it comes to achieving SDG 16, aimed at promoting 
peaceful  and  inclusive  societies  for  all,  where  human 
beings are free from violence and fear.
Jordan  believes  that  we  can  redouble  our  efforts 
to  combat  the  smuggling  of  migrants,  for  which 
Da’esh is responsible in my particular region. We need 
national,  regional  and  international  efforts  to  fight 
terrorism  and  extremism.  Young  men  and  women,  as 
well  as  women  and  children,  need  to  become  aware. 
We  also  need  to  provide  technical  assistance  to  the 
countries in need of such assistance in order to create 
a global preventive strategy. We can never sufficiently 
emphasize the linkage between trafficking, on the one 
hand,  and  terrorism  and  extremism,  on  the  other.  We 
must  cooperate  in  the  exchange  of  information  and 
capacity-building  with  the  assistance  of  international 
institutions,  in  particular  UNODC,  which  plays  an 
essential role in that area.
17-30252
27/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
Particular importance is attached to rehabilitating 
victims  who  have  been  forced  to  rebuild  their  lives. 
In  that  regard,  we  must  also  give  special  attention  to 
women  and  children.  Trafficking  is  a  crime  under 
the  Jordanian  criminal  court  code.  We  ratified  the 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and its protocols, adopted in Palermo, Italy, to put an 
end to contemporary slavery and trafficking in persons.
We are working to expose all forms of trafficking 
in persons by establishing a national commission with a 
view to bringing together representatives of the various 
ministries  and  competent  authorities.  We  have  also 
formed  a  unit  against  human  trafficking,  so  that  the 
legal  system  can  implement  the  strategy  established 
in  2010-2012,  which  makes  it  possible  to  bolster  the 
capacity of judges and enables victims to recover their 
rights, especially victims of forced labour.
We  have, 
furthermore,  created  a  national 
commission  against  trafficking  in  persons  with  a 
hotline  number,  which  makes  it  possible  for  victims 
to reach the authorities in the event of abuse. We have 
a  national  mechanism  that  makes  it  possible  to  bring 
all cases of trafficking to justice, as well as to provide 
shelters  for  victims.  Additionally,  we  have  a  national 
strategy until 2025 that makes it possible to reinforce 
our  actions  towards  the  attainment  of  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Furthermore,  we  have  created  a 
rehabilitation centre, which we have named the “House 
of Dignity”. It is under the auspices of the Ministry of 
Social Services.
We are also coordinating the efforts of our national 
authorities,  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
agencies  and  non-governmental  organizations, 
to 
respond to the particular needs of Syrian refugees and 
their  children  with  a  view  to  providing  them  with  all 
of the social and psychological support they need, with 
the assistance of UNICEF. We will continue our efforts 
to counter trafficking in persons, especially the crimes 
committed by terrorist organizations. We are willing to 
cooperate with all regional and international authorities 
in order to put a stop to such phenomena and to respond 
to their consequences, as well as to prevent them.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Kuwait.
Mr.  Almunaikh  (Kuwait)  (spoke 
in  Arabic): 
My  delegation  would  like  to  welcome  the  political 
declaration  on  the  Implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons  (resolution  72/1),  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  yesterday  morning.  My  delegation  would 
like to express its deep thanks and appreciation to the 
Permanent Representatives of our brother countries of 
Qatar and Belgium for their efforts as co-facilitators of 
the political declaration. Their efforts helped us reach a 
consensus on the text.
Trafficking  in  persons  has  become  a  growing 
concern  for  humankind  at  large  in  recent  times.  It  is 
a  form  of  modern  slavery  and  a  flagrant  violation  of 
fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms.  Trafficking 
in  persons  is  an  international  phenomenon.  It  knows 
no specific country. It crosses borders and reaches new 
countries. It takes various forms and displays various 
patterns. The perceptions of States with regard to the 
notion of trafficking in persons differ according to the 
level of respect for human rights, customs, traditions, 
culture, criminal legislation and the political regime of 
the country.
The  State  of  Kuwait  believes  in  identifying  the 
root causes behind the increase in the phenomenon of 
trafficking in persons, which include a number of social, 
economic,  cultural,  political  and  other  factors.  Such 
factors make people vulnerable to trafficking, as they 
include  poverty,  unemployment,  inequality,  conflicts, 
disasters,  sexual  violence,  gender  discrimination, 
social exclusion and marginalization.
My delegation stresses that Kuwait is committed to 
promoting and protecting human rights and continuing 
the  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons.  Here  I  would 
like  to  highlight  briefly  the  actions  and  procedures 
undertaken  by  Kuwait,  including  the  enactment  of 
legislation,  that  demonstrate  our  steadfast  will  to 
fight such crime and deter the ill-intended people who 
are  involved  in  perpetuating  crimes  of  trafficking 
in persons.
First,  Law  No.  109  of  2013  provides  for  the 
establishment  of  the  National  Labour  Force  Agency, 
which  is  tasked  with  drafting  rules  and  regulations 
guaranteeing the rights of migrant workers. Secondly, 
we are setting up temporary shelters for workers in line 
with the international conventions ratified by Kuwait. 
That  action  aims  at  providing  the  protection  and  full 
care  of  workers,  as  well  as  at  helping  them  return  to 
their countries.
Thirdly,  we  are  implementing  the  2013  Act  on 
combating  trafficking  in  persons  and  the  smuggling 
of workers. It is a new step for us to uphold the rights 
28/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
of  migrant  workers,  whether  in  the  international  or 
domestic sectors. The law includes severe punishment 
of  up  to  15  years  of  imprisonment  for  those  who  are 
proved  to  be  involved  in  the  commission  of  such 
crimes. The reason for those measures is to ensure that 
traffickers do not enjoy impunity.
that 
Fourthly, regarding the 2015 regulation on fighting 
cybercrimes,  clause  8  of 
legislation  makes 
criminally liable any person who creates a website or 
spreads information by using the Internet or any other 
means  of  information  communication  technology  for 
the  purpose  of  trafficking  in  persons  or  facilitating 
their exploitation.
My  country’s  efforts  are  in  line  with  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  in  particular 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  5,  8  and  12. 
Furthermore, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
visited  Kuwait  upon  an  invitation  from  the  State  in 
2016  to  assess  the  situation  and  our  institutional  and 
legislative  framework.  In  her  report  of  14  September 
2016, which she presented at the thirty-fifth session of 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  she  stressed  that  Kuwait 
has  proved  its  commitment  to  fighting  trafficking  in 
persons  and  that  Kuwait  was  a  model  to  be  followed 
in the region and beyond. She further commended our 
institutional and legal framework in the area of labour, 
the private sector, domestic service and child labour.
Recently,  my  country  joined  the  International 
Migration  Organization  (IMO)  as  an  observer.  My 
country believes in the role of the IMO in fighting all 
forms  of  trafficking  in  persons.  Kuwait  effectively 
cooperates with the IMO to fight that phenomenon by 
holding educational and awareness-raising seminars on 
the matter.
today, 
Concurrent  with  our  meeting 
the 
Government of Kuwait is considering the adoption of 
a national strategy to fight trafficking in persons and 
the  smuggling  of  migrants,  with  representation  from 
ministries  and  various  other  sectors.  The  strategy  is 
based  on  three  pillars,  namely,  prevention,  protection 
and partnerships, in addition to cooperation at the local 
and regional levels. In conclusion, we must underscore 
that  despite  all  international  efforts  to  address  the 
phenomenon, 
remains  a  paramount  challenge 
that  requires  increased  concerted  efforts  from  the 
international community.
it 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
Ms. King (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  welcomes  the  adoption 
of  the  political  declaration  on  the  Implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution  72/1),  and  we 
appreciate this opportunity to share some of what we 
are doing to combat human trafficking.
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  established 
in  2012.  That 
an  anti-trafficking-in-persons  unit 
unit  carries  out  many  activities,  which  include  the 
sensitization  of  more  than  30,000  students  and  over 
3,000 teachers, in a population of 110,000 people; the 
sensitization  of  key  stakeholders,  such  as  churches, 
non-governmental organizations and law enforcement; 
media outreach; and the investigation of more than 10 
potential  cases  of  human  trafficking,  with  one  arrest 
made in 2015.
We have strengthened our legislative framework to 
combat human trafficking. We have ratified the United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime  and  the  Protocol  to  Prevent,  Suppress  and 
Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and 
Children (resolution 55/25). There is coordination across 
ministries and departments to ensure that we adhere to 
that and other international plans aimed at combating 
human 
trafficking.  Our  Parliament  has  recently 
revised the Immigration Restriction Act to criminalize 
the  smuggling  of  migrants.  That  amendment  will 
complement  the  Prevention  of  Trafficking  in  Persons 
Act of 2011.
the  Partnership  Agreement  between 
In  February,  using  technical  assistance  received 
through 
the 
members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group 
of States on the one hand, and the European Community 
and  its  member  States,  on  the  other  hand,  and  the 
International  Organization  for  Migration,  we  made 
further progress in the form of a revised national plan of 
action to combat trafficking in persons and formulated 
a data-gathering tool on trafficking in persons.
There  is  need  for  coordination  internationally. 
Through  bilateral  cooperation,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines  has  been  a  part  of  rescue  operations  for 
some  of  its  own  citizens  who  have  been  trafficked 
abroad. No country is immune to human trafficking, and 
we are doing our utmost to fight any sign of infection. 
We believe that one case of human trafficking on our 
17-30252
29/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
shores is one case too many, and we will continue to use 
all tools at our disposal to close all potential avenues for 
traffickers. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines remains 
deeply  committed  to  the  fight  against  trafficking  in 
persons and expresses solidarity with the victims and 
survivors of such heinous crimes.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Spain.
Ms.  Bassols  Delgado  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Spain  aligns 
the  political  statement 
made  yesterday  on  this  topic  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
itself  with 
I would like to begin by thanking the President of 
the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  high-level 
meeting devoted to the appraisal of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
and  for  giving  greater  visibility  to  that  international 
scourge. We are also grateful to the facilitators and the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  for  their 
work  during  the  negotiations  on  the  recent  adoption 
of  the  Political  Declaration  on  the  Implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1).
In the interest of time, I will focus my statement on 
five  very  specific  points.  First,  trafficking  in  persons 
constitutes  one  of  the  most  fundamental  attacks  on 
human  rights,  affecting  women,  children  and  men. 
Trafficking  also  entails  clandestine  activity,  about 
which  there  is  limited  information  or  knowledge. 
Furthermore, it is the result of very complex worldwide 
problems  involving  social,  economic,  health,  political 
and  legal  factors.  If  we  therefore  want  our  appraisal 
exercises to have an effect, we will have to address the 
phenomenon of trafficking comprehensively.
of 
the 
Secondly, 
the  work 
Inter-Agency 
Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking  in  Persons 
must  be  revitalized  so  that  we  can  make  progress  in 
reaching the Sustainable Development Goals related to 
combating trafficking, as well as in dealing with all of 
the aspects related to prevention, impunity and victims’ 
needs. Cooperation among of all the relevant bodies is, 
therefore, crucial.
Thirdly,  trafficking  requires  a  specific  response 
when  it  occurs  in  the  context  of  conflict  situations, 
because,  in  such  cases,  the  national  criminal  justice 
system  is  affected.  Security  Council  resolution  2331 
(2016),  which  was  sponsored  by  Spain,  calls  for  the 
taking  of  measures  by  a  number  of  United  Nations 
bodies, Member States and other stakeholders that can 
help advance efforts to combat trafficking in persons in 
conflict-affected areas. That resolution highlighted the 
undoubtedly perverse relationship linking trafficking, 
sexual  violence  in  conflict,  organized  crime  and 
terrorist funding. In that vein, we welcome the recent 
adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution  2379  (2017), 
because we believe that it will truly help efforts to hold 
those responsible for the crimes committed by Da’esh 
in Iraq accountable.
Fourthly, Spain believes that we must redouble our 
national efforts. The existing relevant conventions and 
protocols must be complemented with an exchange of 
views on our best practices and national policies. Last 
week in this very Hall, the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Spain proposed establishing an international network 
of anti-trafficking coordinators (see A/72/PV.14).
Fifthly, I would like to highlight the fact that Spain is 
developing a firm and comprehensive policy to combat 
trafficking in persons for the purpose of organ removal 
and trafficking in human organs. Upon the initiative of 
Spain  and  Guatemala,  the  General  Assembly  recently 
adopted resolution 71/322, which is aimed at promoting 
organ  donations  and  transplant  systems  that  follow 
clinical, ethical and altruistic criteria. Spain has been 
very  successful  in  that  area,  and  we  are  ready  and 
willing to share our experience with everyone.
Lastly,  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  concluded  without 
pledging to continue our firm commitment and efforts 
in  the  Human  Rights  Council  aimed  at  combating 
trafficking in persons, should we be elected to that body 
on 16 October. We are also determined to work closely 
with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and 
the other relevant bodies of the United Nations system 
that are engaged in combating — in our view — one of 
the major scourges of the twenty-first century.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  49/2,  of  19  October  1994,  I  now 
call on the observer for the International Federation of 
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Mr.  Valastro  (International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Societies): It is my pleasure to 
take the floor on behalf of the International Federation 
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies representing 
the world’s 190 national societies and their 13 million 
community-based volunteers.
30/32 
17-30252
28/09/2017 
A/72/PV.26
As a first principle, when it comes to confronting 
trafficking,  we  should  set  as  our  primary  goal  doing 
what  we  can  to  prevent  trafficking  from  occurring, 
as  well  as  protecting  and  supporting  those  at  risk. 
Our  organization  welcomes  the  fact  that  the  political 
declaration on the Implementation of the United Nations 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons 
(resolution 72/1) reaffirms the commitments contained 
in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
relating to combating all forms of trafficking in persons. 
We note, as well, that the political declaration refers to 
the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants, 
which  recognizes  that  refugees  and  migrants  in  large 
movements are at greater risk of being trafficked. It is 
our hope that the eventual adoption of a global compact 
on  migration  will  provide  the  opportunity  to  find 
agreement on basic principles after decades of work.
Let  me  offer  a  few  examples  from  within  our 
network.  The  British  and  Australian  Red  Cross 
Societies  operate  programmes  where  people  who 
have  experienced 
trafficking  are  provided  with 
accommodations,  material  support  and  a  caseworker. 
The goal is to provide assistance addressing the unique 
vulnerabilities and risk factors of those who have been 
trafficked, and give them the time and support needed 
to decide the subsequent steps they would like to take. 
However,  offering  such  services  is  worth  little  if  the 
people whom we seek to help are too afraid to reach out 
to us. Supporting them means ensuring safe channels 
to access basic services and report abuse, irrespective 
of the legal status of such migrants. In particular, we 
call on States to ensure that vulnerable migrants have 
safe  and  confidential  access  to  such  support,  without 
obliging  them  to  choose  specific  service  providers  or 
disclose their legal status.
Secondly, we must keep our eyes wide open with 
regard  to  signs  suggesting  trafficking.  Along  any 
migratory trail, officials and organizations must actively 
be on the lookout for potential indicators of trafficking. 
States  should  also  ensure  that  any  person  who  has 
experienced  trafficking  or  is  at  risk  of  exploitation  is 
safely identified and referred to the appropriate sources 
of  humanitarian  support  and  assistance.  It  is  only  by 
working  together,  from  cross-border  collaboration  to 
the  provision  of  humanitarian  support  for  those  who 
have  been  trafficked  and  addressing  the  systemic 
drivers  of  trafficking  and  labour  exploitation,  that 
we  can  end  trafficking.  Most  importantly,  we  must 
work  with  those  who  have  experienced  trafficking  to 
understand  those  driving  factors,  how  to  protect  the 
most vulnerable and how we can assist those who have 
experienced trafficking or exploitation so that they can 
rebuild their lives.
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
the  delegation  that  wishes  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply, may I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes 
for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Russian Federation.
Mrs.  Mozolina 
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  We  will  try  to  be  brief.  We  would  have 
preferred  not  to  respond  to  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  the  Ukrainian  delegation. 
Nevertheless, we believe that we need to respond to the 
attacks that were addressed to us in a statement.
We should bear in mind that, since the beginning 
of  the  1990s,  Ukraine  has  consistently  performed 
poorly in terms of forced labour and human trafficking. 
According to data from the International Organization 
for Migration, Ukraine is one of the largest providers of 
slave labour in Europe. Since 1991, 160,000 Ukrainians 
have  been  victims  of  human  trafficking.  Of  course, 
given  the  domestic  armed  conflict,  for  which  the 
responsibility  lies  with  the  authorities  in  Kyiv,  the 
situation has become particularly threatening.
I  will  now  provide  some  other  facts.  The 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine has repeatedly 
stated that Ukrainian displaced persons are particularly 
vulnerable to exploitation and human trafficking. First 
and  foremost  that  is  because  of  economic  difficulties 
caused  by  Kyiv’s  actions.  The  Office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has also 
provided information in his report on the human rights 
situation in Ukraine, including facts about women who 
were forced into prostitution with Ukrainian soldiers to 
ensure the survival of their families.
We encourage the Ukrainian authorities to consider 
once again that the introduction of a transport blockade 
in  the  south-east  of  the  country  and  stopping  social 
welfare  benefit  payments  in  that  region  has  allowed 
crime-related business to flourish in the area, making 
those  sections  of  the  Ukrainian  population  the  group 
17-30252
31/32
A/72/PV.26 
28/09/2017
most  vulnerable  to  human  trafficking.  Unfortunately, 
however,  the  Ukrainian  delegation  prefers  to  identify 
those  outside  of  its  borders,  particularly  in  Russia, 
as  the  guilty  party,  rather  than  seeking  genuine 
solutions to those very serious issues and participating 
in  a  substantive  and  constructive  discussion  in  the 
General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
32/32 
17-30252
