United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
41st plenary meeting
Tuesday, 7 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 122
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
The  President:  I  thank  all  present  for  being 
here  today  to  discuss  the  important  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform.  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude 
to  Ambassador  Imnadze  of  Georgia  and  Ambassador 
Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  for  agreeing 
to  serve  as  co-Chairs  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  process.  They  have  both  taken  on  an 
important  responsibility,  and  I  am  confident  that 
they  will  receive  members’  support  in  both  words 
and  actions.  I  would  also  like  to  sincerely  thank  the 
former  co-Chairs,  Ambassador  Jinga  of  Romania  and 
Ambassador  Khiari  of  Tunisia,  for  their  diligent  and 
valuable  work.  I  would  like  to  make  three  points  in 
order to frame our discussion today.
the 
First,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  will  not 
just affect the work that takes place a few doors down 
from us in the Council Chamber. Rather, it will impact 
the future of the entire United Nations system. We are 
hearing more and more calls for the United Nations to 
change and evolve at a faster pace. Those calls have come 
from  across  the  world,  not  just  from  States  Members 
of the United Nations. In fact, in September, high-level 
representatives of Member States stood at this rostrum 
and stressed the need for the United Nations to adapt to 
a changing world, and many of them even made direct 
calls for Security Council reform.
We must remember that the Security Council is the 
organ charged with maintaining international peace and 
security. Its decisions can mean the difference between 
life  or  death.  That  is  why  the  Security  Council  often 
makes international headlines and why its work is seen 
as one of the major indicators of the United Nations role 
in  the  world.  Moreover,  that  is  why  we  must  answer 
those  calls  for  change,  in  particular  in  relation  to  the 
Security Council. If we do not, the continued relevance 
and,  frankly,  the  very  survival  of  the  United  Nations 
are at stake.
Secondly, in answering those calls, we do not need 
to look further than this Hall. All of us sitting here today 
hold the keys to change. The Council was designed in 
1945, when the world looked very different from how it 
looks today. However, there has been only one change 
in the Council’s membership since then, and that came 
through the expansion in the number of non-permanent 
members  in  1965,  more  than  half  a  century  ago.  But 
the  failure  to  change  is  not  for  lack  of  trying.  Next 
year,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  will  mark  the 
twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  its  establishment.  We  are 
also  approaching  our  tenth  year  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  However, 
the  time  for  merely  trying  is  up.  Now  is  the  time  for 
action. For our purposes, action means dialogue — real 
dialogue, real listening, real interaction. Without those 
elements,  the  reform  process  will  become  nothing 
but  an  exercise  in  reading  out  statements.  It  will 
feature  nothing  but  the  repetition  of  well-known, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-36269 (E)
*1736269*
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
static positions. In that case, what is the incentive for 
compromise?  Where  can  convergences  emerge  from? 
How can we ever move forward?
That brings me to my third point, namely, that we 
must  look  to  the  process  ahead.  It  must  be  credible. 
Member States must believe and trust in it. That is why 
I am committed to transparency and inclusivity. After 
consultations  with  the  co-Chairs  and  Member  States, 
we shall start that process as early as possible, and a full 
calendar will be circulated in advance to Member States 
to allow for forward planning. I hope that that approach 
will  both  enhance  the  quality  of  our  discussions  and 
facilitate  engagement  by  all  delegations.  During  this 
session of the General Assembly, the intergovernmental 
negotiation process must lead to meaningful progress. 
That is our collective duty. However, how that happens 
and the pace at which it happens is up to the Assembly. 
My team and I are here to support the process in any 
way we can.
I  cannot  skirt  around  the  issue  today;  I  am 
compelled  to  address  it  head-on.  And,  in  doing  so,  I 
need to admit that not all of us see eye to eye on the 
issue of Security Council reform. In fact, some of us are 
at opposite ends of the spectrum. However, some of the 
most  difficult  negotiations  throughout  history  started 
out  in  just  that  way.  In  many  cases,  parties  could  not 
even  meet  in  the  same  room.  That  means  that  we  are 
already a step ahead, and we too can come closer to the 
middle. We too can, day by day, make what may seem 
like an impossible agreement become possible. We too 
can make history. We can start through dialogue, and 
we can start today.
Mr.  Sumah  (Sierra  Leone):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the States members 
of the African Union.
in 
increase 
I  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this 
debate  on  agenda  item  122,  entitled  “Question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related to the Security Council”. We acknowledge and 
strongly appreciate your opening remarks, and we wish 
to reiterate the commitment of the States members of 
the African Union to this very important issue, in spite 
of the tremendous difficulties that exist, as you seek to 
guide and move the process forward. Let me also use 
this occasion to congratulate you once again, on behalf 
of the African States, on your election as President of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session.
Let  me  also  congratulate  Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Georgia,  and  Mrs.  Lana 
Zaki Nusseibeh, Permanent Representative of the United 
Arab  Emirates,  on  their  appointment  as  co-Chairs  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also  express 
our support and readiness to work with the co-Chairs 
in  building  on  the  gains  made  so  far  in  the  reform 
process. We also want to thank the previous co-Chairs, 
Ambassadors  Mohamed  Khiari  and  Ion  Jinga,  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Tunisia  and  Romania, 
respectively, for their stewardship of the process during 
the seventy-first session.
Following 
the  2005  World  Summit  and 
its 
Outcome, a number of Heads of State and Government, 
speaking  at  the  general  debate  of  the  Assembly  this 
year,  continued  to  reaffirm  the  need  to  reform  the 
Security  Council  in  order  to  make  it  more  broadly 
representative,  democratic,  effective, 
transparent, 
accessible  and  legitimate.  We  must  therefore  seek  to 
reach an agreement on a reform model that would take 
into account the core values of the United Nations.
As a group, the African States remains convinced 
of the need for a comprehensive reform of the United 
Nations system that upholds the principles, objectives 
and ideals of the Charter of the United Nations, so as 
to achieve a fairer world based on universalism, equity 
and regional balance. To that end, we remain true and 
faithful to decision 62/557, on the topic before us today, 
and other relevant General Assembly decisions aimed 
at  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
while encompassing the five main clusters and taking 
into  account  their  interconnectedness,  as  agreed  by 
the Assembly.
It  is  clear  that  there  is  general  agreement  to 
reform  the  Security  Council,  despite  the  existence  of 
some disagreement on the exact method for achieving 
the  reform.  What  is  notable,  however,  is  the  fact  that 
there  has  been  convergence  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, including growing support for expansion 
in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of membership. In fact, that view is shared by a cross-
section of the membership of the Assembly, and it is in 
line with the political commitment made by our leaders 
in 2005.
Moreover,  there  is  considerable  support  for  the 
inclusion  of  small  and  medium-sized  States,  and  of 
course enhanced African representation, in an expanded 
Security  Council.  As  a  group,  we  note  that  the  main 
2/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
aim of the various groups and stakeholders’ positions is 
to ensure that the Council represents the present global 
geopolitical  realities.  That,  we  believe,  will  help  to 
ensure the promotion and preservation of the principles 
of equity and democracy, as well as further enhance the 
legitimacy and effectiveness of the United Nations and, 
in particular, of the Security Council.
Since  the  adoption  of  decision  62/557,  the  reform 
process  has,  at  best,  forged  ahead  cautiously  and  at 
a  very  slow  pace.  The  positions  and  proposals  of  the 
various  groups  and  Member  States  have  been  stated 
and  restated  during  the  many  exchanges  during  the 
various intergovernmental negotiations. Convergences, 
divergences  and  possible  sticking  areas  are  now  very 
well  known.  There  is  no  doubt  that  past  exchanges 
have been interactive and productive. However, actual 
negotiations  have  not  yet  begun.  That,  I  believe,  is 
an  appropriate  point  to  review,  so  as  to  achieve  a 
meaningful  reform  process.  It  is  now  time  to  move 
from rhetoric to action and produce the desired results 
indicated  in  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome.  We 
therefore hope that the spirit of an effective interactive 
approach that focuses on a possible negotiating process 
in a not-too-distant future will dictate the pace of the 
reform process.
At this stage, a work plan, a timeline for negotiations 
and  the  modalities  by  which  agreements  could  be 
reached  on  given  issues  are  of  great  necessity.  That 
could help set the pace for moving the reform process 
in a more meaningful direction with a view to driving 
it  towards  real  negotiations.  It  is  therefore  crucial  for 
the entire membership of the Assembly to agree first on 
the principles and criteria of the negotiations vis-à-vis 
the  five  negotiable  clusters  and  their  relationship. 
Accordingly, in seeking progress on the reform process, 
we must at this stage endeavour to reach an agreement 
on  how  to  move  forward  and  reconcile  the  outcomes 
set  out  in  the  various  documents  produced  during 
the  sixty-ninth,  seventieth  and  seventy-first  sessions, 
with  a  view  to  forming  the  basis  for  the  work  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  this  session. 
What  is  of  critical  significance  in  guiding  the  reform 
process  is  the  acknowledgement  of  the  interlinkages 
among the five negotiable clusters.
We  cannot  talk  about  the  size  of  an  enlarged 
Security Council without talking about the categories of 
membership, since enlargement of the Council in both 
the  permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories  will 
definitely affect its size. Also, the size of an enlarged 
Council  will  affect  the  cluster  on  equitable  regional 
representation. In other words, in order to correct the 
current  imbalance  in  the  Security  Council,  we  must 
enlarge its size, which must also take into account the 
need to redress the protracted historical injustice done 
to Africa in terms of representation in the Council. That 
therefore explains the need for a comprehensive reform 
of the Security Council, as opposed to a piecemeal and/
or intermediate procedural reform of the Council.
Considering the present international landscape, it 
is unacceptable that Africa is the only continent not to 
be  represented  in  the  permanent  category  of  Council 
membership,  while  it  is  also  underrepresented  in  the 
non-permanent category. We will therefore continue to 
demand the allocation of no less than two permanent seats 
to Africa, with all the prerogatives and privileges of the 
permanent members, and a total of five non-permanent 
seats. The selection of such representatives will be done 
by our regional organization, the African Union, which 
has  enviable  credentials  in  selecting  its  candidates 
to  serve  in  multilateral  organizations,  including  the 
United Nations.
That demand, which is a continent-wide aspiration, 
is aimed at ensuring Africa’s right to fair and equitable 
geographical  representation  on  the  Security  Council. 
The  need  to  adhere  to  that  demand  and  to  address 
the  grossly  unjust  scenario  is  fundamental.  A  delay 
would  mean  further  perpetuating  and  compounding 
the existing injustice and, concomitantly, denying the 
region its rightful place in the major decision-making 
organ of the Organization. We are therefore pleased that 
a  considerable  number  of  Member  States  support  the 
enlargement of the Security Council to reflect equitable 
regional representation.
the  Common  African  Position  continues 
Our continued participation in this debate is firmly 
rooted  in  our  commitment  to  the  Common  African 
Position,  articulated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and 
the  Sirte  Declaration.  We  remain  firmly  convinced 
that 
to 
enjoy  the  broadest  support  of  the  majority  of  the 
membership and that it remains a viable option in the 
reform process. Africa therefore continues to urge all 
interest groups and stakeholders and the wider United 
Nations membership to demonstrate their commitment 
to  correcting  the  historical  injustice  by  concretely 
supporting the African position, which will clearly lead 
to reforming the Council so that it can become a more 
inclusive, democratic and effective organ.
17-36269
3/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
In  conclusion,  we  keenly  look  forward  to  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  seventy-
second session of the General Assembly, We hope that 
the  session  will  build  upon  the  progress  made  so  far 
and will accelerate the pace in attaining concrete gains 
towards fulfilling the forthright vision of our leaders at 
the 2005 World Summit. Africa is very much committed 
to  the  important  issue  of  reform.  We  therefore  look 
forward  to  working  with  you,  Mr.  President,  and  the 
general  membership  within  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations for a comprehensive reform, as stipulated 
under  Assembly  decision  62/557.  We  will  remain 
open  to  working  alongside  and/or  together  with  any 
other  initiative  that  takes  into  account  the  level  of 
commitment  and  support  that  the  Common  African 
Position  has  gained  so  far.  We  continue  to  call  for 
more frank debates, which will generate the necessary 
political  will,  leading  to  the  much-needed  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  better  reflect  the 
geopolitical realities of the twenty-first century.
Mr.  Almunayekh  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Group of 
Arab States.
At the outset, I would like to highlight the support 
of  the  Arab  Group  for  your  efforts,  Mr.  President,  at 
the helm of the General Assembly during this session. 
In that regard, our Group welcomes the appointment of 
Ambassador Kaha Imnadze, Permanent Representative 
of  Georgia,  and  Ambassador  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh, 
Permanent Representative of the United Arab Emirates, 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiation 
process on the reform of the Security Council. I cannot 
fail  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the  co-Chairs  at  the 
previous  session,  namely,  Ambassador  Mohamed 
Khaled  Khiari,  Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia, 
and Ambassador Ion Jinga, Permanent Representative 
of  Romania.  I  would  like  to  thank  them  for  having 
brought the points of views of the groups and countries 
closer together in the context of those negotiations.
The reform of, and equitable representation in, the 
Security  Council  are  among  the  main  principles  of  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  given 
the major challenges that the international community 
faces. Those challenges make us even more determined 
to step up efforts to strengthen the role of the Security 
Council  so  that  it  can  better  deal  with  the  challenges 
it  faces  in  a  transparent  and  credible  way.  Four  years 
after  the  start  of  the  negotiations  to  expand  the 
number of Security Council members and to improve 
its  working  methods,  during  which  several  initiatives 
were  presented  by  countries  and  groups  of  countries, 
including  the  Arab  Group,  it  has  become  important 
to move forward with Security Council reform and to 
seek  to  achieve  consensus-based  decisions  based  on 
agreement among countries on the principles of change 
and reform, in particular given the significant changes 
that  have  taken  place  in  the  world  since  the  United 
Nations  was  established  in  1945.  However,  we  do  not 
necessarily need to set a timeline that would prevent the 
finding of a comprehensive solution to reform.
In  that  regard,  the  Arab  Group  reiterates  once 
again  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  within 
the  General  Assembly  represent  the  only  way  to  find 
a  solution,  in  line  with  decision  62/557,  in  the  five 
categories  of  reform,  namely,  membership,  the  veto 
power, regional representation, the size of an enlarged 
Security  Council  and  the  working  methods  of  the 
Council, and the relationship between the Council and 
the General Assembly.
The Arab Group also underscores that all of those 
issues are closely linked. The various negotiations need 
to  take  into  consideration  all  those  issues  in  order  to 
achieve  comprehensive  reform.  The  Arab  Group  also 
wishes to reiterate that restarting the intergovernmental 
negotiations during the seventy-second session should 
include  all  positions  and  proposals  put  forward  by 
Member  States  during  the  negotiations.  There  is  no 
doubt  whatsoever  that  such  a  basis  should  guide  the 
two co-Chairs as they seek to reopen the negotiations 
aimed  at  achieving  consensus  among  Member  States 
and  making  progress  in  that  regard.  The  Arab  Group 
reaffirms 
the  consistent 
position of the Security Council and not to obstruct the 
intergovernmental negotiations in any way by imposing 
measures that are not consensus-based.
to  preserve 
its  position 
We  face  numerous  challenges,  including  the  veto 
power. The arbitrary use of the veto by some Member 
States  has  harmed  the  credibility  of  decision-making 
within  the  Security  Council.  That  has  sometimes  led 
to  the  Security  Council  being  unable  to  shoulder  its 
responsibilities. The Council has therefore been unable 
to take the necessary measures to maintain international 
peace  and  security.  The  use  of  the  veto  power  by 
permanent  members  has  shown  that  those  countries 
protect their national interests or the interests of their 
allies. It is true that, in recent years, the veto power has 
not been used as often as in previous times. However, 
it  has  shown  itself  to  be  an  effective  way  to  prevent 
4/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
some countries from shouldering their responsibilities. 
Over the past 20 years, the veto was used 27 times to 
protect Israel from the consequences of its practices in 
the occupied Palestinian territories.
Zaki  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  on  their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. The Group of Four stands ready to support 
them in undertaking their important role.
It is crucial that we improve the Security Council’s 
working  methods  so  as  to  make  it  more  effective 
and  more  transparent.  At  the  same  time,  we  need  to 
reach  agreement  on  standing  rules  of  procedure,  as 
the  ones  we  have  now  are  provisional.  Similarly,  the 
number  of  plenary  Security  Council  meetings  needs 
to  be  increased,  thereby  strengthening  the  role  of  the 
countries  affected  by  the  issues  being  discussed  by 
the  Council.  Such  meetings  would  provide  concrete 
opportunities for non-members of the Security Council 
to  participate  in  its  debates.  Moreover,  the  number 
of  closed  meetings  needs  to  be  reduced  and  should 
become  the  exception  rather  than  the  rule.  Decisions 
and statements available to the Council need be made 
readily  accessible.  Consultations  with  countries 
concerned by the issues being discussed by the Security 
Council need to be increased in accordance with Article 
31 of the Charter of the United Nations. The subsidiary 
bodies  and  committees  of  the  Security  Council  need 
to  make  information  concerning  their  work  available. 
Furthermore,  the  Security  Council  needs  to  show 
greater respect for its mandate.
The  position  of  the  Group  of  Arab  States  with 
regard  to  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  well-
known, namely, that its member States are asking for 
permanent Arab representation, as well as proportional 
representation in the non-permanent member category. 
Ultimately, the Arab Group is committed to participating 
constructively in the next round of intergovernmental 
negotiations  with  a  view  to  reaching  consensus  that 
will allow us to comprehensively and effectively reform 
the Security Council.
Mr. Bessho (Japan): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf of the Group of Four: Brazil, Germany, India and 
my own country, Japan.
The reform of the Security Council is long overdue. 
If  we  truly  seek  to  preserve  the  credibility  of  the 
working  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  indeed  of  the 
entire  United  Nations,  there  is  no  more  time  to  lose. 
That  is  the  first  message  that  I  would  like  to  convey 
to everyone today. To underline the urgency of making 
real progress, let me just name a few milestones in the 
long history of efforts to reform the Security Council.
First,  in  1979,  a  request  was  submitted  for  the 
inclusion  of  an  item  entitled  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council”  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Secondly,  this  year  marks  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  resolution  47/62,  in 
December 1992, which requested the Secretary-General 
to invite Member States to submit written comments on 
that  issue.  Thirdly,  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
clearly  called  on  Heads  of  State  and  Government  to 
support  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Lastly, 
at the end of the current session, it will have been 10 
years  since  the  General  Assembly  adopted  decision 
62/557  to  initiate  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Sadly,  despite  all  those  efforts,  we  are  still  very  far 
from where we should be.
Nonetheless, we were encouraged to hear you say, 
Sir,  upon  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly last spring that,
“[t]here  is  a  high  degree  of  accord  that  the  time 
is  ripe  to  transform  the  Security  Council  into  a 
twenty-first century body” (A/71/PV.83, p.3).
The  Group  of  Four  fully  agrees.  The  Group  will 
spare  no  efforts  to  translate  those  words  into  action 
under your able leadership, Sir, and in cooperation with 
other Member States.
I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation 
to  you,  Sir,  for  convening  this  important  and  timely 
debate. I welcome your intention “to promote a credible 
process to address the reform of the Security Council”, 
as  you  mentioned  in  the  general  debate  in  September 
(A/72/PV.3,  p.6),  as  well  as  this  morning.  You  can 
count  on  our  full  support  in  making  this  a  credible 
process. I would also like to congratulate Ambassador 
Kaha  Imnadze  of  Georgia  and  Ambassador  Lana 
My  second  message  is  the  following:  text-based 
negotiations  should  be  initiated  immediately.  That  is 
precisely the process that we use to translate words into 
action here in the United Nations. Out of 193 Member 
States,  an  overwhelming  majority  of  164  support 
beginning text-based negotiations. The Group of Four 
already underlined that fact in a statement delivered on 
its behalf by the representative of Germany to the General 
Assembly last July (see A/71/PV.92). I also appreciate 
17-36269
5/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
the  initiative  that  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines took on behalf of the 
L.69 group to submit a letter that clearly articulates that 
same fact and sets the record straight with regard to the 
overwhelming view of the Assembly.
The  time  for  simply  repeating  statements  and 
emphasizing  differences  is  over.  With  that  in  mind,  I 
respectfully ask the President of the General Assembly 
to grant the co-Chairs his full support for initiating text-
based  negotiations  without  further  delay.  That  is  not 
merely  the  request  of  a  particular  group  of  countries, 
but a necessity in order to ensure the credibility of the 
process. After all, what other negotiations in the history 
of the United Nations have continued for decades without 
a text? The positions and proposals of Member States 
are reflected in the framework document and its annex, 
which  provide  a  basis  for  negotiations.  Additionally, 
the paper issued by the previous co-Chairs during the 
seventy-first session of the General Assembly, entitled 
“Elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for  further 
consideration”,  can  also  serve  as  a  reference.  The 
necessary and logical next step is to prepare a concise 
and  operational  negotiation  text  —  preferably  in  the 
form of a draft resolution. We need to launch text-based 
negotiations  now,  indeed  as  early  as  possible  during 
the  current  session,  so  as  to  allow  sufficient  time  for 
meaningful progress to be made during the remainder 
of the session.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  an  early 
reform  of  the  Council  is  needed  in  order  to  make  it 
more  legitimate,  effective  and  representative,  thereby 
reflecting  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century.  In 
order to achieve that goal, increasing representation in 
both the permanent and the non-permanent categories 
is  required.  There  is  broad  support  from  Member 
States for that method of expanding Security Council 
membership.  Its  enlargement  should  consider  the 
contribution  of  Member  States  to  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  It  also  needs 
to  enhance  regional  representation  in  the  Security 
Council by ensuring that the concerns and aspirations 
of  unrepresented  or  underrepresented  regions  are 
adequately  taken  into  account.  In  particular,  the 
historical  injustice  that  Africa  has  suffered  should  be 
redressed through representation in both the permanent 
and non-permanent categories.
Secretary-General  Guterres  is  taking  bold  and 
necessary steps to reform the United Nations across its 
three  pillars,  in  order  to  render  it  fit  for  the  twenty-
first century. The Group of Four supports his efforts. 
Another 
indispensable  element  of  reforming  and 
strengthening  the  United  Nations  must  be  reform  of 
one of its principal organs, the Security Council. In the 
Secretary-General’s  own  words,  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  will  not  be  complete  without  reform  of  the 
Security Council. Progress in Security Council reform 
is critical, and all the elements are present. If we can 
put them together, we can succeed. We must succeed. 
The  legitimacy,  effectiveness  and  representativeness 
of  the  Security  Council  are  at  stake  and,  with  them, 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
As President Mandela said, it always seems impossible 
until it is done.
Mr. Lambertini (Italy): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus (UFC) group. I 
would like to thank you, Mr. President, for convening 
this  annual  debate  on  Security  Council  reform.  We 
commend your commitment to a reform process that is 
credible,  transparent  and  inclusive.  Building  on  those 
same principles, the Uniting for Consensus group looks 
forward to cooperating with the new co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform,  Ambassadors  Nusseibeh  and  Imnadze.  We 
warmly welcome them in their new capacity and wish 
to  express  our  full  support  for  them  in  the  upcoming 
intergovernmental negotiations session.
The  credibility  of  a  membership-driven  process 
such  as  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  depends 
on its transparency and inclusiveness. Only through a 
transparent process that takes into account the voices of 
all Member States can we jointly define the consensual 
path that the Uniting for Consensus group believes is 
the key to making concrete progress. All we have to do 
is avoid the obstacles that have so far prevented us from 
achieving our common goal and work in a true spirit of 
flexibility and compromise.
Over  the  years,  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group 
has consistently pointed out that the main roadblock to 
reform is the demand for an increase in the number of 
permanent members on the Council. At the same time, 
we  have  offered  a  compromise  solution  consisting  of 
longer-term non-permanent members with the possibility 
of  an  immediate  re-election,  coupled  with  a  more 
equitable distribution of seats among regional groups. 
Longer-term seats would fulfil the legitimate desire of 
some  Member  States  to  make  a  greater  contribution 
to the work of the Council. That reform model would 
enhance  regional  representation  as  follows.  Africa 
6/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
would  constitute  the  largest  group  on  the  reformed 
Council, while the Asia-Pacific region would have the 
highest  percentage  increase  and  the  representation  of 
both Latin America and Eastern Europe would double. 
Our  proposed  distribution  would  also  enable  cross-
regional  groupings  such  as  the  Group  of  Arab  States 
to  have  greater,  more  stable  representation.  At  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  meeting  on  8  May  we 
distributed  a  chart  with  a  breakdown  of  our  regional 
representation  proposal.  A  copy  of  it  is  available  on 
PaperSmart, attached to my statement.
Our initiative is the fruit of an inclusive vision that 
we  are  firmly  convinced  would  bring  about  a  more 
representative,  democratic,  accountable,  transparent 
and effective Council. So we were taken aback by the 
opposition that some delegations expressed last year to 
the principles of democracy and representation. On the 
one  hand,  it  revealed  the  true  underlying  reasons  for 
the current stalemate. On the other, it showed us how 
urgently we need a serious discussion of the principles 
underpinning Security Council reform. Without clarity 
on  what  we  are  aiming  for,  we  will  never  reach  our 
destination.  We  expect  Member  States  to  finally  be 
given the opportunity to engage in just such a discussion 
during this session, paving the way for the next steps 
before us, including text-based negotiations.
that  convergence  will 
Last  year  the  whole  United  Nations  membership 
agreed that — and I quote the co-Chairs’ final document,
“The  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
should  build  on  the  work  done  in  previous  years, 
so 
increase  gradually 
with  a  view  to  garnering  the  widest  possible 
political acceptance.”
This document enables us to say unequivocally that 
all  Member  States  agree  with  the  idea  of  expanding 
the  number  of  non-permanent  seats  on  the  Council. 
All Member States agree that such an increase should 
favour  countries  belonging  to  the  underrepresented 
regions  of  the  world.  To  that,  we  should  add  that  a 
significant and growing number of Member States are 
opposed to an expansion of the veto and indeed support 
limitations on its use.
If  we  are  to  truly  build  on  the  work  of  previous 
years,  then  the  middle  ground  for  a  compromise 
solution  leading  to  Security  Council  reform  can  be 
mapped  out  only  on  the  basis  of  these  three  broad 
areas  of  agreement.  They  are  the  pillars  of  our  new 
Council, which we all want to reflect the reality of the 
contemporary world. But the reality of the twenty-first 
century is constantly evolving, with new regional actors 
and  new  global  challenges  continuing  to  emerge  in  a 
changing reality to which the Council must constantly 
adapt. There is no better guarantee of that adaptability 
than  regular  elections,  which  would  also  make  the 
Security  Council  more  democratic,  accountable  and 
inclusive by offering all Member States, rather than a 
select few, the opportunity to make a greater and more 
frequent contribution to the Council’s work.
After  almost  25  years  of  focusing  on  demands 
for  new  permanent  seats,  which  would  benefit  only 
a  handful  of  Member  States,  it  is  high  time  to  give  a 
concrete  chance  to  all  Member  States  and  offer  real 
prospects  to  the  groups  of  States  and  regions  of  the 
world  that  are  underrepresented  on  the  Council.  We 
see no possibility that adding new vetoes could make 
a  new  Council  more  effective,  more  responsive  to 
international crises or better able to cope with today’s 
global challenges.
The  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  stands  ready 
to  cooperate  with  you,  Mr.  President,  with  the  new 
intergovernmental negotiations co-Chairs and the whole 
membership to advance this process, with the common 
goal of increasing the Council’s legitimacy in the eyes 
of  both  the  general  membership  and  international 
public  opinion,  thereby  enhancing  its  authority  and, 
ultimately, its effectiveness. We are willing to redouble 
our efforts to achieve reform without delay, building on 
the many existing convergences among Member States 
to  arrive  at  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council that will garner the broadest possible consensus 
by  enlarging  the  Council  with  new  elected  members 
and  a  more  balanced  and  equitable  representation  of 
regional groups.
Mr.  Ten-Pow  (Guyana):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  14  States 
members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) as 
our  contribution  to  today’s  debate  on  the  question  of 
Security Council reform.
CARICOM would like to thank you, Mr. President, 
for  your  decision 
to  appoint  Ambassadors  Lana 
Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Imnadze,  Permanent 
Arab  Emirates,  and  Kaha 
Representative  of  Georgia,  as  co-Chairs  of 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations for the current session. 
We  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
them for accepting the appointment. CARICOM looks 
17-36269
7/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
forward to working with them and with Member States 
to  advance  the  Assembly’s  work  under  this  agenda 
item, and we reiterate our full support for the process. 
We  would  also  like  to  thank  Ambassadors  Ion  Jinga 
of  Romania  and  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  of  Tunisia 
for  their  able  stewardship  of  this  process  during  the 
seventy-first session.
to 
In  your  address 
the  First  Committee  on 
2  October  (see  A/C.1/72/PV.2),  Mr.  President,  you 
called on Member States to summon the political will 
to do more in the context of our work on disarmament 
and  international  security.  Today  CARICOM  extends 
that call to Member States in the context of their work 
on reform of the Security Council, as we believe that 
political will is crucial to achieving forward movement 
on this long-standing issue. It is incumbent on all of us 
to demonstrate our commitment to the goal of reform, 
as it is the Member States themselves that must work to 
achieve it.
In  1993,  when  the  General  Assembly  established 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question 
of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
related  to  the  Security  Council  to  consider  matters 
related  to  Security  Council  reform,  that  decision  was 
based on its recognition of the need to
“review  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  related  matters  in  view  of  the  substantial 
increase in the membership of the United Nations, 
especially  of  developing  countries,  as  well  as  the 
changes  in  international  relations”  (resolution 
48/26, third preambular paragraph).
Two  and  a  half  decades  later,  that  need  has  not  been 
comprehensively  addressed,  although  we  have  had 
limitless opportunities to work to restructure the Council 
in order to bring it into line with current realities.
CARICOM wants to see progress on the issue, and 
we  believe  that  it  is  possible,  given  the  tremendous 
number  of  ideas  that  have  been  generated  since  the 
start of our debates on the question of Security Council 
reform.  We  are  conscious,  however,  that  progress 
requires putting those ideas to work, and many Member 
States,  including  the  members  of  CARICOM,  have 
put  forward  proposals  and  articulated  their  positions 
on  how  to  achieve  progress  on  the  issue.  Beyond 
that, Member States have agreed on the forum within 
which  that  progress  is  to  be  pursued,  namely,  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
We  have  heard  the  arguments  against  having  a 
negotiating text. After two and a half decades of very 
little progress, CARICOM believes that our discussions 
must zero in on those fundamental issues that divide us 
on the basis of clearly laid-out positions and proposals. 
I will again allude to your 2 October address to the First 
Committee,  Mr.  President,  when  you  urged  Member 
States  to  be  constructive  and  reach  across  the  aisle. 
CARICOM is prepared to engage constructively, as we 
have always done, and we are hopeful that this session’s 
intergovernmental  negotiations  will  indeed  build  on 
what has been achieved so far.
In  conclusion,  CARICOM  remains  committed 
to the goal of reform of the Security Council as soon 
as  possible.  As  a  group  of  small  island  and  low-lying 
coastal  developing  States,  CARICOM  believes  that 
small island developing States have a critical stake in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
and  are  therefore  well  positioned  to  contribute  to  the 
work of the Council. We stand ready to work with all 
Member States for speedy reform of the Council.
Ms. Stener (Norway): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the Nordic countries — Denmark, Finland, 
Iceland, Sweden and my own country, Norway.
I  would  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the  previous 
co-Chairs and all who have done a great job in laying 
the groundwork for this discussion. Let me also thank 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  initiating  today’s  debate  and 
for  appointing  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  and  Georgia  to  lead  us  in  our 
discussions. We are in good hands.
I reaffirm the commitment of the Nordic countries to 
engaging in the collective efforts to reform the Security 
Council.  Given  the  global  and  geopolitical  challenges 
facing  the  United  Nations,  ensuring  the  effectiveness 
of  the  Security  Council  is  more  important  than  ever. 
We are encouraged by the momentum for reform that 
is currently energizing the work of the Secretariat and 
Member States, and we look forward to listening to and 
working with other Member States from all regions in 
support of reform.
The  Security  Council  must  become  more 
transparent,  effective,  accountable  and  representative 
than it is now. That requires reform. An important and 
desirable  step  forward  would  be  negotiations,  based 
on  a  text.  The  Nordic  countries  support  a  balanced 
expansion  of  the  Security  Council.  The  aim  must  be 
to  better  reflect  current  geopolitical  and  economic 
8/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
realities  and  ensure  enhanced 
representation  of 
developing  countries,  including  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent seats for Africa. In our view, it is also 
important to ensure that small States can serve regularly 
as elected members of the Council.
I would like to assure the Assembly that the Nordic 
countries  will  contribute  to  a  constructive  dialogue 
among Member States, with a view to achieving further 
progress during this session of the General Assembly.
Ms.  King  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines):  I 
have the honour to deliver this statement on behalf of 
the L.69, a diverse group of developing countries from 
Africa,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  Asia 
and  the  Pacific  that  are  united  by  the  common  cause 
of achieving lasting and comprehensive reform of the 
Security Council.
In  your  acceptance  speech  (see  A/71/PV.83)  after 
your election to preside over the Assembly at its seventy-
second session, Mr. President, you acknowledged that 
the  most  widely  mentioned  topic  related  to  United 
Nations reform is reform of the Security Council. You 
further underscored that there is broad agreement that it 
is time to transform the Security Council into a twenty-
first-century body, and you expressed your intention to 
work  closely  and  consult  widely  with  Member  States 
on how to move forward the agreement that our leaders 
reached at the 2005 World Summit.
We would like to begin by congratulating you, Sir, for 
continuing that process and for your letter of 30 October 
encouraging Member States to move forward, building 
on  progress  achieved  in  previous  sessions  of  the 
General Assembly. We welcome the appointment of our 
distinguished colleagues Ambassadors Kaha Imnadze 
of Georgia and Lana Zaki Nusseibeh of the United Arab 
Emirates, and wish them every success in their efforts 
to  move  the  process  forward  at  a  critical  juncture.  I 
would also like to take this opportunity to assure you 
and  the  co-Chairs,  Mr.  President,  of  our  group’s  full 
support and cooperation during this session.
The  United  Nations  has  come  a  long  way  since 
1945. In 1979, just 14 years after the first expansion of 
the Security Council, a request for a second expansion 
was  made  to  the  General  Assembly.  The  initiation  of 
the  process  for  considering  the  agenda  item  relating 
to  Security  Council  reform  in  the  Assembly  finally 
began in 1992. On 11 December this year, we mark the 
twenty-fifth anniversary of the Assembly’s adoption in 
December  1992,  of  resolution  47/62,  which  requested 
the  Secretary-General  to  invite  Member  States  to 
submit, not later than 30 June 1993, written comments 
on a possible review of the membership of the Security 
Council.  It  also  requested  the  Secretary-General  to 
submit  for  the  Assembly’s  consideration  at  its  forty-
eighth session a report containing comments by Member 
States  on  the  subject  and  decided  to  include  on  the 
provisional agenda for its forty-eighth session an item 
entitled  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council”.
The intergovernmental negotiations process started 
in 2008, more than three years after our leaders at the 
2005 World Summit clearly stated that speedy reform 
of  the  Security  Council  was  necessary.  While  the 
commencement  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
provided  new  hope  to  people  around  the  world,  10 
years later we are at a crucial juncture. Will we elect to 
continue with these so-called negotiations, which are at 
variance with the way we do business here at the United 
Nations and are a glaring exception to internationally 
accepted norms? The L.69 group is of the view that it 
is  the  responsibility  of  the  entire  membership  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  you,  Mr.  President,  to  prevent 
that  dysfunctional  process  from  continuing.  In  that 
connection,  we  welcomed  your  expressed  intention  at 
the opening of the general debate in the seventy-second 
session to promote a credible process to address reform 
of the Security Council.
If  we  are  serious  about  the  credibility  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations, we must, with a sense of 
urgency, introduce standard United Nations negotiating 
practices into their mode of operation. Failure to do so 
will not only put the entire process at risk but will also 
allow  a  minority  to  appropriate  the  process  by  using 
it  as  a  vehicle  for  maintaining  the  status  quo.  That 
is  not  the  purpose  for  which  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  were  mandated.  On  the  contrary,  its 
mandate is to seek a solution that can achieve general 
agreement  on  the  question  of  the  Security  Council’s 
equitable  representation  and  increased  membership. 
We therefore favour a solutions-based approach to the 
intergovernmental negotiations process.
We  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention 
to document A/72/510, which contains a letter that the 
L.69 group submitted to the President of the Assembly 
at its seventy-first session. Annexes I and II to the letter 
detail the wide support for the initiation of text-based 
negotiations  from  164  Member  States.  In  response  to 
an assertion that only a few countries have engaged in 
17-36269
9/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
the intergovernmental negotiations process, we showed 
that more than 180 have engaged in the process since 
it  began.  We  have  also  seen  attempts  by  some  to  use 
the  arguments  for  text-based  negotiations  to  discredit 
other groups’ positions. The call for a negotiating text 
is not a demand but reflects a shared responsibility. The 
requirement for a progressive and normalized process 
is  not  an  achievement  in  and  of  itself,  but  a  practical 
necessity. Without a text to guide that process, without 
a text to track the evolution and distillation of positions, 
we have seen how this abnormal process can hinder the 
earnest attempts of Member States to engage. During 
the last intergovernmental negotiations we saw how this 
peculiar approach creates the potential for unnecessary 
confusion  and 
inadvertent  misrepresentation  or 
misunderstanding  of  Member  States’  positions  by 
virtue of the fact that there are no records of how their 
positions have evolved over time.
Over  the  years,  we  have  discussed  the  five  key 
issues  ad  nauseam.  We  have  gathered  and  discussed 
and heard positions and proposals from all groups and 
individual Member States many times over. Where do 
we go from here? That is the question we must answer 
before we reflexively commence our next round of so-
called negotiations on that important issue.
Finally, Mr. President, you have made focusing on 
people your mantra, and rightly so. We were sent here 
to advocate on behalf of our people. Our engagement in 
the intergovernmental negotiations is not an intellectual 
exercise.  We  are  accountable  to  our  taxpayers  for 
the  use  of  their  hard-earned  dollars.  In  the  spirit  of 
transparency and openness, it is time for us to at least 
let the world see what we have been discussing for so 
many years. They have a right to know where we are 
and whether we are any closer to achieving our goals. 
If we are making progress, the people should see it. If 
we are not, they should also be made aware of what is 
hindering  our  progress.  That  is  the  minimum  that  we 
owe to our constituents, the people of the world. In that 
regard, it is our young people, in particular, whose lives 
will be shaped by the decisions taken by the Assembly.
in  both 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership  is  imperative  in  order  to  better  reflect 
the  realities  of  the  contemporary  world  and  achieve 
a  more  accountable,  representative,  transparent  and, 
most  importantly,  relevant  Security  Council.  In  that 
regard,  the  issue  of  Africa’s  representation  in  both 
the permanent and non-permanent categories must be 
Our  group  believes 
that  expansion 
addressed  by  the  Assembly  in  line  with  the  African 
common position.
In conclusion, Mr. President, I hope that under your 
guidance  and  active  engagement  we  will,  as  per  your 
own words, move the process forward. We believe that 
the  measure  of  that  commitment  will  be  manifested 
by the formulation of a negotiating text that serves to 
re-energize the intergovernmental negotiations process 
and lays a basis for speedy and meaningful reform.
Mr. Akbaruddin (India): I would like to begin by 
thanking you, Mr. President, for your sterling opening 
remarks  articulating  your  commitment  to  putting  in 
place a meaningful and credible reform process. They 
have set the stage for our consideration of agenda item 
122, on the question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  earlier  by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Japan,  on  behalf  of  the  nations  of  the  Group  of  Four, 
and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, on behalf of the 
L.69 group of developing countries. I would like to add 
some remarks in my national capacity.
We  meet  for  the  annual  consideration  of  this 
agenda item for the twenty-fifth consecutive time, even 
as  we  witness  accelerating  change  all  around  us.  A 
futurist cataloguing change in the twenty-first century 
concluded that between 2000 and 2014, the total of the 
changes  affecting  our  lives  was  equivalent  to  that  of 
the  entire  twentieth  century.  He  also  predicted  that 
according  to  his  law  of  accelerating  returns,  another 
twentieth century’s worth of change will happen in half 
that time, by 2021. Of course, it appears that he forgot 
to  study  the  practice  and  pursuit  of  this  agenda  item, 
which has remained unchanged for years before 2000 
and years since 2014. This agenda item is indicative of 
the lack of even incremental change in our approach to 
issues  of  importance,  oblivious  of  the  pace  of  change 
all around us. As multilateral diplomats, we are indeed 
used  to  punishing  processes,  but  never  has  a  process 
itself become a punishment, as in this case.
If that is the new normal, it does not bode well for 
multilateralism. Never have the normative foundations 
of  multilateral  cooperation  been  shown  to  be  weaker 
than  in  this  instance.  If  the  most  representative  of 
existing  multilateral  institutions  can  only  muddle 
along, holding meetings and issuing reports that are not 
even minor stabs at marginal improvement, and if the 
gap between the demand for global governance and the 
10/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
shortage of responses provided by existing multilateral 
institutions  is  growing,  we  need  to  ponder  if  what 
we  are  witnessing  is  the  symptoms  of  a  recession  of 
multilateralism.  There  is  no  more  vivid  reflection 
of  that  deepening  crisis  of  multilateralism  than  the 
dysfunctional  Security  Council,  which  no 
longer 
reflects contemporary realities and hence faces a crisis 
of  legitimacy  and  credibility.  Similarly,  there  is  no 
greater example of the institutional inertia that resists 
constructive  adaptation  than  the  inability  to  translate 
discussions into a text for negotiations, despite 10 years 
of so-called intergovernmental negotiations authorized 
by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Assembly’s  own 
annual  consideration  of  the  agenda  item,  which  has 
continued since 1993.
At a time when proliferating transnational threats, 
deepening  economic  interdependence  and  worsening 
environmental  degradation  all  call 
for  effective 
multilateral action, we have fallen short of a substantive 
response  on  an  issue  as  important  as  reform  of  the 
Security Council. That is a sign that the ageing pillars 
of  the  established  multilateral  order  are  creaking  and 
crumbling  all  around  us,  unable  to  meet  the  need 
for change.
It  is  axiomatic  that  reforms  tend  to  generate 
reforms. This year, the Secretary-General has drawn up 
a broad set of reform proposals, including in the area 
of peace and security. No reform of the United Nations 
peace  and  security  architecture  will  be  complete 
without  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It  would  not 
be wrong to say that an unreformed Council could in 
fact  undermine  progress  that  could  be  made  in  other 
areas  of  that  continuum.  The  time  is  therefore  ripe 
for  progress  on  Security  Council  reform  as  part  of  a 
wide-ranging  agenda  of  reform  during  this  session  of 
the General Assembly.
So what should we specifically do to avail ourselves 
of this opportunity? First, as a French Prime Minister, 
Georges Clemenceau, once said, war is too important 
to be left to the generals. In the modern era, perhaps, 
diplomacy seems to have become too important to be 
left  to  the  diplomats.  That  need  not  be  a  bad  thing. 
Modern  challenges  demand  the  concerted  efforts  not 
only of Governments but of whole societies. So society 
more generally could be more involved in the diplomatic 
process.  Perhaps  we  should  consider  options  whereby 
we open up the process so that others are aware of what 
is stopping the current discussions from even beginning 
on the path of a negotiating text. Transparency in the 
work  of  diplomats  is  a  useful  adaptation  that  we  can 
consider as a pathway to progress in this changing world.
Secondly,  the  differences  between  those  who 
advocate change and the defenders of the status quo are 
a recurring pattern in the history of any reform effort. 
The  annexes  to  document  A/72/510  detail  the  critical 
mass  that  is  available  for  initiating  a  normal  reform 
process. Having a negotiating text is not only a demand 
of  the  majority  but,  as  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has just said, the 
responsibility  of  all  the  membership.  A  normalized 
process does not guarantee results by itself. It expresses 
the good faith and sincerity of the entire membership. It 
is time to have a normal process, with a text and records 
of who said what, so as to help all of us understand one 
another’s positions with greater clarity and respect.
Thirdly,  I  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on 
commencing your stewardship of that process with the 
welcome  appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  our  colleagues 
Ambassadors  Imnadze  of  Georgia  and  Nusseibeh  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates.  We  wish  them  success  in 
their  efforts.  We  hope  that  under  their  leadership  we 
will courageously move the process forward. We have 
had  more  than  our  share  of  routines,  continuity  and 
statements  and  too  little  of  initiatives,  flexibility  and 
results. We call on the co-Chairs to replace routines with 
initiatives,  continuity  with  flexibility  and  statements 
with  results.  Only  then  will  we  diplomats  be  able  to 
do  what  the  philosopher  Edmund  Burke  paraphrased 
as  those  things  that  men  of  intelligence  and  goodwill 
would  wish,  five  or  10  years  hence,  had  been  done. 
That opportunity lies within our grasp. As always, the 
choice is ours to make.
Ms.  Bird  (Australia):  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to thank Ambassadors Jinga and Khiari for 
ably leading the Security Council reform process during 
the  previous  session  and,  Mr.  President,  to  warmly 
welcome  your  appointment  of  Ambassadors  Imnadze 
and Nusseibeh as co-Chairs to take the process forward 
during  the  seventy-second  session.  We  wish  them  the 
best of luck. They will need it.
While  I  hesitate  to  start  on  a  negative  note,  I 
must  express  disappointment  that  there  has  not  been 
greater  progress  on  reforming  the  Council.  Over  the 
previous  three  sessions,  we  have  taken  constructive 
steps towards the ambitious and important reforms that 
are  needed.  Discussions  in  that  regard  have  provided 
a useful foundation for reaching mutual understanding 
17-36269
11/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
and for finding common ground. However, we have not 
been able to proceed to concrete reform on the key issue 
of membership.
Australia’s position on Security Council reform is 
well known. We have advocated reform of the Security 
Council  for  many  years.  Reforming  the  Security 
Council,  like  reform  of  other  elements  of  the  United 
Nations, is about ensuring that it is fit for purpose. It 
should  be  seen  as  a  necessity,  not  an  optional  extra. 
To  be  relevant  and  effective,  the  Council  should 
better  reflect  contemporary  geopolitical  realities, 
with greater representation for Asia, Africa and Latin 
America. We support expansion in the permanent and 
non-permanent  categories.  Such  expansion  should 
not  inhibit  the  Council’s  ability  to  act  swiftly  and 
decisively  but  should  take  place  within  limits  and 
be  accompanied  by  improvements  to  the  Council’s 
working  methods.  Australia  has  long  held  that  the 
Council’s  working  methods  should  reflect  greater 
transparency,  better  coordination  with  the  General 
Assembly  and  better  consultation  with  troop-  and 
police-contributing countries.
Australia also urges all Member States, especially 
the permanent five, to commit to the code of conduct of 
the Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group 
and  the  complementary  French-Mexican  declaration, 
which  calls  for  restraint  in  the  use  of  the  veto  in 
situations of mass atrocity. Those two related initiatives 
have  formed  one  of  the  few  welcome  concrete  steps 
taken towards Council reform in recent years.
We  welcome  the  practical  measures  identified  in 
the  paper  entitled  “Elements  of  convergence  on  two 
key issues of Security Council reform: the relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  and 
the size of an enlarged Security Council and working 
methods  of  the  Council”  and  the  subsequent  paper 
entitled,  “Elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for 
further  consideration  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters”.  We  now 
urge  Member  States  to  move  towards  implementation 
without  delay.  That  includes  moving  to  text-based 
negotiations,  which  would  build  momentum  and 
demonstrate  our  commitment 
these 
reforms.  If  we  collectively  fail  to  take  this  next  step, 
and  simply  reiterate  well-known  positions  again,  it 
will bring this reform process into question. If the end 
product of our deliberations is yet another “Elements” 
to  delivering 
paper, the credibility and relevance of the process will 
be in doubt.
The  Security  Council  must  uphold  its  mandate 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security.  We 
acknowledge that it can act effectively when necessary. 
We  note  in  particular  its  response  to  the  recent 
provocations by North Korea. But the Security Council, 
like  other  parts  of  the  multilateral  architecture,  must 
be  able  to  adjust  to  changes  in  the  global  landscape. 
It  cannot  operate  in  a  vacuum.  It  is  necessary  for  the 
credibility  of  the  United  Nations  that  we  undertake 
meaningful  reform  of  the  Council,  especially  on  the 
crucial issue of membership.
threaten 
regional 
situations 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  Deteriorating 
and 
humanitarian 
international stability. The possible atrocity crimes in 
Myanmar, Syria, Yemen and elsewhere demand unified 
action  by  the  Security  Council  to  provide  peace, 
security  and  accountability.  The  Council,  one  of  the 
principal organs of the United Nations, is equipped with 
powerful tools to alleviate human suffering and enforce 
peace and stability. But it frequently fails to live up to 
the expectations that people around the globe have for 
it. All too often, it is unable to use the powerful tools 
it was given under the Charter of the United Nations. 
That  undermines  perceptions  not  just  of  the  Council 
itself but of the United Nations as an organization.
The  pressing  need  for  Security  Council  reform  is 
beyond dispute. We have all said that time and again, 
including  at  the  highest  political  levels.  In  the  area 
of  enlargement,  however,  there  can  be  no  prospect  of 
progress as long as the deeply entrenched views on the 
opposing  sides  of  the  discussion  prevail.  Without  any 
indication  of  flexibility,  it  is  hard  to  imagine  a  way 
forward. Indeed, we must challenge the fundamentals 
of  the  process  we  are  engaged  in.  We  thank  our 
colleagues  from  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  from 
Georgia for taking up the difficult challenge of leading 
our  discussions.  We  will  give  them  our  full  support, 
and  we  hope  that  they  will  be  innovative  and  bold  in 
their work.
As is well known, we have suggested an enlargement 
model  that  we  hope  could  provide  a  middle  ground 
in  the  discussion,  adding  long-term  Council  seats  of 
eight  to  ten  years  with  the  possibility  of  immediate 
re-election.  The  other  main  elements  of  our  proposal 
are no new veto powers, a strong review clause and a 
flip-flop clause that bars Member States that have lost 
12/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
an election for long-term seats from running for short-
term seats.
Enlargement of the Council does not equal reform. 
Who  serves  on  the  Council  is  certainly  an  essential 
question  for  how  it  is  perceived  and  its  credibility. 
How  the  Council  goes  about  its  daily  business  and 
carries out its functions is no less important. Together 
with like-minded States, we have worked consistently 
to  help  the  Council  do  better  in  that  respect,  and  we 
have  achieved  significant  results.  The  creation  of  an 
ombudsperson for the Al-Qaida and Taliban sanctions 
regime,  for  example,  was  an  initiative  that  had  its 
origins outside the Security Council.
Another key initiative in that respect is the code of 
conduct on Council action on mass atrocity crimes. We 
had the honour to lead the efforts of the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group  that  led  to  the 
code  of  conduct,  which  so  far  has  been  embraced  by 
114 States, all of which are committed to taking action 
to  end  and  prevent  atrocity  crimes  when  serving  as 
Council  members.  They  will  do  so  by  committing  to 
taking  action  to  that  effect  and  also  by  not  opposing 
credible proposals suggested in the Council to that end. 
Recent situations of relevance to this issue include those 
in Myanmar, South Sudan and Yemen, to name just a 
few. We have been gratified to see that the Secretary-
General  has  submitted  relevant  information  to  the 
Security  Council  for  action.  The  Council,  however, 
has  been  frustratingly  slow  to  respond.  We  believe 
that subscribing to the code of conduct is the minimum 
commitment  we  should  be  able  to  expect  from  any 
Council member. In future, therefore, we will support 
candidatures for the Security Council only from States 
that have signed the code of conduct. We also call on 
all States that have not yet done so to join the code of 
conduct as soon as possible.
Mr.  Inguanez  (Malta):  Malta  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  representative 
of Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group. 
I  would  like  to  add  the  following  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
for 
initiating 
We  would  also  like  to  join  others  in  thanking 
you,  Mr.  President, 
this  debate, 
and  in  congratulating  the  new  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform for this session. We would like to assure them 
of  Malta’s  support  and  constructive  engagement  in 
the process.
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  a  delicate  and 
sensitive  dossier.  We  are  under  no  illusion  as  to  the 
magnitude  of  the  challenge.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
strategic  interests  are  at  stake,  which  renders  the 
process  slow  and  wearing.  That  is  inherent  in  the 
issues of reform under consideration, but we should not 
be  deterred  from  taking  an  inclusive  and  transparent 
approach.  On  the  contrary,  that  is  perhaps  even  more 
essential.  The  more  we  debate,  the  more  we  explore 
ideas and the more we come to realize the short- and 
long-term  implications  of  what  we  are  talking  about. 
We hold that it is not here or through a text that we will 
have the opportunity and the time to truly understand 
the effects, operational difficulties and implications of 
the  proposals  on  the  table.  It  is  not  here  that  we  will 
have the time to analyse the repercussions of our ideas 
in  depth.  Rather,  it  is  only  through  time  itself  that 
true,  calm  and  objective  reflection  can  take  place  on 
the  complexities  involved  and  their  potential  future 
impact.  It  is  time  that  will  enable  the  discussions  to 
evolve  and  reach  maturity.  It  is  time  that  will  enable 
Member  States  to  reflect  on  and  comprehend  how 
multilateral diplomacy will unfold in the years to come 
by supporting one option over another.
In  the  meantime,  in  a  positive  and  constructive 
spirit,  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  has  sought  to 
develop over the years a proposal that takes a consensus 
approach. It has tried to reach out to all States and include 
their concerns, while not prejudicing what we believe to 
be the essential principles of reform. The reform process 
is  a  Member  State-driven  exercise  and  a  painstaking 
one.  Malta  acknowledges  that  what  we  discuss  in  the 
process  reflects  on  the  United  Nations  membership 
collectively  and  individually.  Besides  that,  we  affirm 
that  what  we  discuss  here  affects  and  goes  beyond 
Member States’ interests and positions. It is therefore 
important to ensure that in the quest for ways to make 
the  Organization  reflect  today’s  realities,  we  do  not 
neglect the fundamental aims of reform — optimizing 
its  organic  democracy,  accountability,  transparency, 
effectiveness and representation. This reform exercise 
is about sowing the seeds, whether we agree on them 
or  not,  for  a  new  multilateral  order.  Only  in  that 
way  can  we  recalibrate  the  system  without  creating 
new imbalances.
that 
Malta  believes 
the  aim  of  our  reform 
should  be  first  and  foremost  an  equitable  increase  in 
representation  with  respect  to  Member  States  within 
an  enlarged  Council,  bearing  in  mind  today’s  new 
17-36269
13/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
realities.  But  in  doing  so,  we  should  also  recalibrate 
with  regard  to  the  whole  of  the  United  Nations 
membership  —  big,  medium-sized  and  small  States. 
Small  States  have  a  particular  interest  in  seeing  to  it 
that  future  multilateralism  leaves  enough  ground  for 
them. Small States have an interest in seeing that the 
multilateral framework will not end up composed of a 
wider, if stronger, core and a weaker periphery. Small 
States  want  to  play  their  part,  but  not  on  the  fringes. 
We are cognizant of the difficulties involved. However, 
we remain full of hope that pragmatism will win over. 
Nothing  can  hinder  us  from  working  to  find  out  in 
practical terms what we can achieve together, what we 
can improve and to what extent we can do that. With that 
in mind, we look forward to this year’s negotiations.
Mr. Ja Song Nam (Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea): I would first like to express my appreciation 
for  the  efforts  of  the  representatives  of  Romania  and 
Tunisia as last year’s co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform.
The  issue  of  Council  reform  is  an  important  and 
pressing  matter,  given 
the  currently  complicated 
international situation, and we need it if we are to build 
a world of peace and stability. Today, the fundamental 
principles  of 
international  relations  —  equality, 
sovereignty  and  mutual  respect  —  as  laid  down  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  are  being  seriously 
violated.  Sovereign  States  are  being  openly  subjected 
to  interference,  military  intervention  and  massacres 
in  the  international  arena.  Under  the  pretexts  of 
so-called  non-proliferation  and  counter-terrorism, 
State-sponsored  terrorism  and  plots  against  sovereign 
States are becoming more blatant. Terrorist forces are 
being  formed  on  a  global  scale,  and  the  catastrophic 
consequences  of  that  are  leading  to  a  disastrous 
refugee situation.
Situations  such  as  these,  which  seriously  affect 
world  peace  and  security,  are  caused  by  the  United 
States, which uses its privileged position as a permanent 
member of the Security Council and its political clout to 
implement its strategy for world dominance. The United 
States,  the  biggest  nuclear  Power  in  the  world,  has 
continued  to  make  historically  unprecedented  nuclear 
threats  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  and  has  denounced  the  security  measures 
we  have  taken  as  a  threat  to  international  peace 
and  security  while  it  continues  to  impose  unlawful 
sanctions and resolutions one after another. Even more 
serious, the Security Council, which is responsible for 
world  peace  and  security,  has  turned  a  blind  eye  to 
the  nuclear  threats  and  nuclear-war  exercises  that  the 
United  States  has  conducted  against  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea for half a century, and has 
not taken a single measure to ensure peace and security 
on the Korean peninsula.
I also strongly condemn the remarks just made by 
the  representative  of  Australia  about  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. That country merely plays to 
the tune of the United States without knowing anything 
of the reality of the situation on the Korean peninsula.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea insists on total Security Council reform. We 
clarify our principled position as follows. First, reform 
of  the  Security  Council  should  focus  on  ensuring 
impartiality,  objectivity  and  democracy.  Activities 
such  as  the  adoption  of  resolutions  that  justify  and 
legitimize  the  aggression  of  certain  countries  against 
others,  in  violation  of  truth  and  justice,  should  no 
longer be tolerated.
Secondly,  Security  Council  reform  should  ensure 
the  full  representation  of  members  of  the  Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  (NAM),  as  well  as  of 
developing countries. There can be no question that the 
more than 120 NAM and developing countries, which 
represent  a  majority  in  the  United  Nations,  should 
have  full  representation  on  the  Security  Council.  As 
we  can  see  from  the  results  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  although  10  years  have  passed  since  the 
issue  of  expanding  the  Security  Council  was  first 
addressed,  the  situation  remains  unchanged,  owing 
to  various  countries’  conflicting  views.  Under  these 
circumstances, the only way to adjust the imbalance in 
the Council is to increase the number of non-permanent 
seats on it.
Japan’s  efforts  to  achieve  permanent  membership 
on  the  Security  Council  should  never  be  tolerated. 
Japan  is  a  major  criminal  State,  having  militarily 
invaded many Asian countries and committed heinous, 
unimaginable  crimes  against  humanity  and  crimes  of 
sexual slavery in particular. The fact that Japan, which 
is denying such inhumane crimes and is now showing 
tendencies towards militarism, is seeking a permanent 
seat on the Council is grotesque and an open affront to 
the international community.
The delegation of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  has  thus  clarified  its  principled  position  on 
Security  Council  reform  and  expresses  the  hope  that 
14/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
the  international  community’s  protracted  efforts  to 
reform the Security Council will bear fruit in future.
Mr.  Skinner-Klée  Arenales  (Guatemala)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  warmly 
congratulate the Permanent Representatives of Georgia 
and  the  United  Arab  Emirates  on  their  appointment 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security Council reform. We are confident that under 
their  leadership  and  given  their  abilities,  we  will  be 
able  to  make  progress  in  reaching  consensus  on  this 
vital issue. I would of course also like to express our 
gratitude  for  the  good  work  done  previously  by  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Tunisia  and  Romania 
and for the elements of consensus that they were able to 
provide in past negotiations.
My delegation renews its commitment to ensuring 
that the Security Council reform process is participatory, 
exhaustive, transparent, equitable and, above all, viable 
and  adaptable  to  today’s  world  and  its  challenges. 
Institutions  cannot  remain  static  or  paralysed  at  this 
historic  time.  Rather,  they  should  be  prepared  for 
change  and  for  evolving  effectively  in  order  to  face 
the  circumstances  and  the  challenges  to  which  they 
must  respond.  Without  question,  the  global  political 
and economic reality of 1945 is not commensurate with 
the  current  reality;  nor  is  that  of  1965.  It  is  therefore 
appropriate and urgent that we review the structure and 
functioning of the Council. We believe the Council must 
have sufficient flexibility and the capacity to respond 
to  current  challenges  and  that  it  must  be  efficient, 
representative and transparent. If we want the Council 
to maintain its validity and legitimacy and to carry out 
the responsibilities assigned to it under the Charter of 
the United Nations, we must be willing to accept that 
maintaining the status quo is not an option.
In  that  connection,  the  main  goal  of  the  reform 
should be to ensure that the Security Council can respond 
appropriately  to  any  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security in the current global situation. However, inertia 
and paralysis prevail, thereby exposing the Council to a 
progressive loss of relevance and revealing its obstinate 
failure to act in the face of the normative power of the 
facts — the realpolitik — which poses a greater threat 
to the world order.
That  paralysis  has  become  increasingly  evident, 
for  example,  with  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  the  veto 
by  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council. 
Far  from  supporting  the  defence  of  the  collective 
interest  with  arguments  that  facilitate  consensus, 
the  non-acquiescence  of  the  permanent  members 
has  obstructed  and  distorted  the  common  interest, 
which  in  turn  foments  division  among  the  members 
of the Council, leading to an abdication of the serious 
responsibilities  that  fall  to  it.  Moreover,  over  time 
we  have  found  that  the  concerns  expressed  by  many 
delegations  during  the  San  Francisco  Conference  in 
1945  regarding  the  veto  were  completely  valid  and 
justify  further  consideration  of  that  issue.  That  is 
why  Guatemala  questions  whether  the  veto  should  be 
allowed  at  all,  even  if  other  States  seek  that  power 
within the framework of Security Council reform. One 
approach to circumvent the veto problem can be found 
in the proposals of France and Mexico with regard to 
a  declaration  to  restrict  the  use  of  the  veto,  with  the 
additional guidance of a code of conduct regarding the 
action that the Security Council should ideally take in 
cases  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and  war 
crimes. We believe that the contribution made by those 
delegations represents a valuable alternative.
We  know  that  any  change  is  difficult,  and  that  is 
why we believe that the intergovernmental negotiation 
process  should  seek  to  make  gradual  progress  in  a 
progressive reform process that includes the membership 
and  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council.  Only 
with the commitment and political will of all Member 
States, without impositions, can we achieve that goal. 
Our  collective  approach  must  be  aimed  at  achieving 
a viable and practical agreement through a process in 
which we are all willing to be flexible and transparent. 
Only that would allow the Security Council to adapt to 
current and future circumstances.
Mr.  Vieira  (Brazil):  Brazil  associates  itself  with 
the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Japan  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Four,  and  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines on behalf of the L.69 group, and would like 
to add the following comments in its national capacity.
This  session’s  debate  on  this  agenda  item  is 
particularly  timely,  as  it  takes  place  during  broader 
discussions  of  reforms  that  the  Secretary-General 
wishes  to  implement  within  the  United  Nations.  The 
need  to  modernize  the  United  Nations  and  put  it  in  a 
better position to address current challenges underlies 
those  proposals.  We  expect  that  those  reforms  will 
include a democratization of the United Nations system, 
which  will  not  be  achieved  unless  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council takes place. We were pleased that this 
17-36269
15/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
January,  in  Addis  Ababa,  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres  reiterated  the  assessment  by  his  predecessor 
Kofi Annan that “no reform of the United Nations will 
be complete without the reform of the Security Council”. 
Any attempt to reform the United Nations and bring its 
structures in line with current realities cannot overlook 
the reform of the Security Council.
In  this  year’s  opening  meeting  of  the  general 
debate,  President  Michel  Temer  also  underscored 
the  imperative  of  reforming  the  United  Nations.  He 
highlighted that
“it is particularly necessary to enlarge the Security 
Council to adapt it to the realities of the twenty-first 
century. It is urgent that we listen to the will of the 
overwhelming majority of the General Assembly.” 
(A/72/PV.3, p.7).
Brazil  was  not  alone  in  underlining  the  urgent 
need for Security Council reform in the general debate. 
A  significant  number  of  countries  also  expressed 
concern  about  the  outdated  structure  of  the  current 
composition  of  the  Council  and  mentioned  the  need 
to  adjust  it  to  contemporary  realities.  Many  pointed 
to  its  inefficiency  and  paralysis  in  dealing  with  the 
most  pressing  challenges  to  peace  and  security.  That 
poses  a  great  risk  to  its  credibility  and  legitimacy. 
It  is  noteworthy  that  the  vast  majority  of  such 
statements come from developing countries, which are 
underrepresented in the most powerful decision-making 
organ of the United Nations. It is past time to redress 
that underrepresentation — especially that of African 
countries, the only continent not to have a permanent 
seat in the Council.
We welcome your commitment, Sir, at the opening 
of this session’s general debate to “promote a credible 
process to address the reform of the Security Council” 
(A/72/PV.3,  p.6).  Brazil  congratulates  the  Permanent 
Representative of Romania, Ambassador Ion Jinga, and 
the Permanent Representative of Tunisia, Ambassador 
Mohammed Khaled Khiari, on their work as co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  during  the  previous  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  and  welcomes  the  appointment  of 
Ambassadors Kaha Imnadze of Georgia and Lana Zaki 
Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  as  co-Chairs 
for  the  current  session.  As  always,  they  can  count  on 
Brazil’s full support in their endeavour.
Brazil  expects 
the 
current  session  to  build  on  the  progress  made  during 
the  General  Assembly  at 
the  sixty-ninth,  seventieth  and  seventy-first  sessions. 
The  documents  produced  by  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  those  sessions 
form  a  solid  basis  for  text-based  negotiations,  which 
is  the  next  logical  step  in  the  process.  The  previous 
years’  exercises  showed  that  convergence  is  possible 
and helped us to identify where the widest gaps remain. 
We should not refrain, however, from drafting a concise 
document  that  also  reflects  competing  views.  That  is 
precisely what negotiation is about: an attempt to find 
common ground on areas where we do not necessarily 
converge.  We  expect  to  see  text-based  negotiations 
launched  during  the  current  session  with  a  view  to 
leading  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  towards  a 
long-overdue concrete outcome.
Ms.  Azucena  (Philippines):  We  wish  to  thank 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  plenary  debate 
to  discuss  the  important  question  of  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  The  Philippines  supports 
the 
General  Assembly’s  reaffirmation  of  its  central  role 
in that matter and its resolve to continue negotiations 
immediately.  We  count  on  your  leadership  to  ensure 
continuity  with  the  progress  that  has  been  achieved 
over the past years.
We also wish to take this opportunity to congratulate 
the Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
Arab  Emirates  for  having  been  appointed  recently  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  are  confident  that  they 
will exert every effort to carry the negotiations forward 
for the benefit of all Member States.
I would like to reiterate the support of the Philippines 
for an enlarged Security Council with an increase in the 
number  of  permanent  and  non-permanent,  or  elected, 
members  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Philippines 
supports  the  proposal  to  increase  the  number  of 
Council members to up to 27. We believe that a broader 
membership  would  better  reflect  twenty-first  century 
geopolitical  realities  and  contribute  to  the  pursuit  of 
the Council’s mandate to maintain international peace 
and security.
Critical  to  an  enlarged  Security  Council  is  the 
balance  in  geographical  representation,  taking  into 
account the size of the populations of regional groups. 
We must ensure that the Council is the one venue where 
the voices of all peoples of the world are heard. In that 
context, I wish to highlight the situation of the Group 
of Asia-Pacific States. The Group accounts for almost 
16/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
60 per cent of the total population of all States Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  Moreover,  with  54  Member 
States,  it  accounts  for  28  per  cent  of  the  total  United 
Nations  membership.  In  peacekeeping  operations  all 
over  the  world,  the  Asia-Pacific  countries  contribute 
about 40 per cent of the total human resources needed 
to run those operations. Yet in the Security Council the 
Group accounts for only 20 per cent of the total number 
of seats, that is, only three seats — one permanent, two 
elected — out of the 15 seats. We should address that 
underrepresentation  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Security 
Council  is  truly  representative  of  the  interests  of  the 
peoples of the world.
An  equally  critical  challenge  that  an  enlarged 
Security  Council  has  to  tackle  is  how  to  remain 
effective  and  efficient.  An  enlarged  Council  must  be 
able  to  act  swiftly  and  decisively,  with  the  highest 
standards  of  accountability,  coherence,  transparency 
and  fidelity  to  the  trust  accorded  to  it  by  the  greater 
United Nations membership. While any expansion could 
pose  challenges  to  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency  of 
the  Council,  my  delegation  believes  that  prioritizing 
key issues, particularly the reform and improvement of 
the working methods of the Council, could provide an 
antidote to any of those concerns.
The Philippines also reiterates its view that the veto 
power has no place in a twenty-first century Security 
Council. No Member State should be granted the special 
privilege to exercise the veto power, as that is in direct 
contravention of the principle of the sovereign equality 
of all Member States, as enshrined in the Charter. We 
appreciate  that  the  question  of  the  veto  is  the  most 
formidable challenge in our work to reform the Security 
Council. While the abolition of the veto continues to be 
our aspiration, we should all be prepared to take small 
steps that will hopefully bring us closer to that goal. To 
that end, the Philippines is open to considering ways to 
rationalize the use of the veto power by the Council’s 
permanent  members.  We  support  the  Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency Group’s code of conduct 
and  the  French-Mexican  initiative,  which  spells  out 
exceptions  to  the  right  to  use  the  veto  power.  We 
also  support  the  proposal  that  the  extension  of  the 
right  of  the  veto  to  new  permanent  Council  members 
will  be  decided  upon  in  the  framework  of  a  review. 
We  understand  that  to  mean  that  the  new  permanent 
members shall not exercise the veto until such review 
is concluded.
Over the years, there has already been a significant 
amount of work undertaken on Security Council reform. 
It is about time that our serious efforts lead to concrete 
results.  The  Philippines  believes  that  the  immediate 
commencement of text-based negotiations, as called for 
by many Member States, is a step in the right direction. 
We see it as a way to attain our aspiration for a truly 
representative and effective Security Council.
Mr.  Masuku  (Swaziland):  Here  we  are  at  yet 
another  session  of  many  in  which  the  item  before 
us  today  is  under  discussion.  I  applaud  the  General 
Assembly for consistently keeping this matter under its 
focus,  and  I  also  commend  the  previous  co-Chairs  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform  for  the  work  they  have  done  so  far  to  achieve 
progress in the debate on the issue. In the same vein, we 
welcome  the  incoming  co-Chairs,  and  we  pledge  our 
support as they take on their monumental task.
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by 
the  representative  of  the  Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  on 
behalf of the Group of African States, and we welcome 
this  opportunity  to  elaborate  further  on  the  matter  in 
our national capacity.
The  Security  Council  plays  a  key  role  in  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  It 
is  the  arm  of  the  United  Nations  that  has  been  given 
important  and  far-reaching  powers  to  act  on  behalf 
of  the  broader  membership  of  the  United  Nations. 
It  acts  on  our  behalf  and  is  meant  to  represent  the 
interests of all. It is therefore crucial that the Security 
Council be reformed so that it can reflect the realities 
of  the  twenty-first  century,  which  would  make  the 
Council  more  democratic,  legitimate,  representative, 
responsive  and  transparent  in  its  working  methods 
and decision-making processes. In that vein, I wish to 
reiterate the commitment of my delegation to this very 
important issue. We look forward to working with all 
Member States in building on the gains made thus far 
and to achieving consensus on the issues before us.
the 
regrettably 
Notwithstanding 
prolonged 
nature  of  the  reform  process,  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  have  helped 
to illuminate the various positions that have been held 
by  the  various  groupings  of  Member  States.  Certain 
areas where there is a convergence of views have been 
identified  and,  conversely,  areas  of  divergence  have 
also been highlighted. However, no matter how brilliant 
those views may be, they require further deliberation so 
17-36269
17/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
as to ensure progress towards inclusivity. It is therefore 
incumbent upon us to find the means to move from the 
current  position  of  seeming  deadlock  and  give  fresh 
impetus to the reform process.
To that end, we reiterate the position of the Group of 
African States as articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus 
and Sirte Declaration. It is only reasonable for Africa 
to be represented in the permanent-member category of 
the Security Council. Not only is the Council’s agenda 
mainly concentrated on Africa, but such representation 
would also be a true expression of democratic practice. 
For a continent with 54 Member States, that is only fair. 
In spite of the fact that there are some who are at odds 
with that claim, we appeal to their moral sensibilities 
to  consider  the  right  thing.  Is  it  fair  to  say  that  some 
are of no concern in the face of the injustice of history? 
A  bit  of  empathy  does  not  compromise  anything. 
The  principle  of  regional  representation  should  rule 
supreme  in  this  matter,  in  particular  for  the  simple 
reason  that  the  Security  Council  should  resemble  the 
character  of  the  General  Assembly,  an  Assembly  that 
reveres the Charter, made famous by its statement, “We 
the peoples of the United Nations”.
It is also our resolve to stand behind the increase 
of  membership  in  the  non-permanent  category.  It  is 
immaterial  how  big  the  expansion  is,  but  the  details 
should  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  world 
today.  The  Security  Council  cannot  be  a  dogmatic 
body, and the stature of its current membership brings 
into  question  the  modernity  and  credibility  of  the 
United Nations.
With  regard  to  the  allocation  of  veto  privileges, 
we  fully  subscribe  to  the  prescription  in  the  African 
Common Position. The veto should be extended to all 
new  members  in  the  permanent  category  as  long  as 
that  power  exists.  Alternatively,  we  are  comfortable 
with  its  abolition.  However,  to  put  everything  into 
perspective, it is the feeling of my delegation that the 
veto is not in itself harmful; however, it is so within its 
current operational confines. In recent years, decorum 
has  prevailed,  but  we  are  also  mindful  and  similarly 
fearful  of  a  once-in-a-century  obstinacy  rearing  its 
head. Do we then curtail or re-engineer the use of the 
veto  and  prescribe  certain  operational  parameters? 
Does it still retain its name after that? Those and other 
questions  require  further  probing.  In  conclusion,  we 
pray  for  a  way  forward  sooner  rather  than  later,  and 
will  endeavour  to  be  progressive  in  the  discussion  of 
the matter. We call upon all our fellow Member States 
to adopt a similar approach.
Arenales 
(Guatemala), 
Skinner-Kleé 
in  welcoming 
Mr. 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Mr.  Sukhee  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  join  many  others  in  expressing  our  sincere 
appreciation  for  the  convening  of  this  important 
meeting  and 
the  appointment  of 
Ambassador Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates and 
Ambassador Imnadze of Georgia as the new co-Chairs 
of the intergovernmental negotiations. I wish to assure 
them  of  our  delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation 
with  the  aim  of  moving  that  process  forward  in  our 
shared endeavour to reform the Security Council. My 
delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
earlier by Ambassador King of Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines on behalf of the L.69 group and wishes to 
add a few remarks in its national capacity.
forward 
the  process 
My  delegation  shares  the  view  that  we  should 
continue  moving 
through 
negotiations, building on the work of previous sessions 
and  the  framework  document  and  its  annex,  as  well 
as  the  elements  of  convergence  paper  on  two  key 
issues  of  the  reform.  Mongolia  also  believes  that  the 
Security Council should be reformed to make it more 
accountable,  representative,  transparent,  efficient  and 
effective. It is therefore important that, based on those 
common elements and positions, we begin the process 
towards the path of text-based negotiations.
In  a  Member  State-driven  process,  the  call  by 
Member States to have all views respected and reflected 
in a negotiating text is something that can be addressed 
only with a clear road map for progress in that process 
and a structured approach aimed at concrete results. As 
such,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  has 
an important role to play, and we join others today in 
calling for the commencement of text-based negotiations 
without further delay, taking into account the fact that 
an overwhelming majority supports expansion in both 
the permanent and the non-permanent categories of the 
membership of the Security Council.
I would also like to reaffirm our principled position 
concerning the reform of the Security Council on three 
key  issues.  Regarding  the  categories  of  membership, 
Mongolia has consistently stood for a just and equitable 
expansion in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories. Our stance in favour of an enlargement of 
both of the current categories is guided by and based on 
18/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
the composition set forth in the Charter of the United 
Nations and is reflective of contemporary realities, as 
well as the principles of justice and equality, in order 
to  ensure  the  greater  and  enhanced  representation 
of  developing  countries,  particularly  the  non-  and 
underrepresented regional groups.
With  respect  to  the  question  of  the  veto,  it  is  our 
view that the veto should be abolished. We could also 
support  the  restricted  use  of  the  veto  power  in  the 
Security Council, in particular with regard to decisions 
relating  to  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter.  So  long  as  it 
exists,  the  veto  power  should  be  extended  to  all  new 
members  in  the  permanent  category  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  must  enjoy  all  the  prerogatives  and 
privileges of the current permanent membership.
On  the  key  issue  of  regional  representation, 
adequate  representation  of  all  regions,  particularly 
non-  and  underrepresented,  in  both  of  the  categories 
of  the  Security  Council  must  be  duly  considered. 
The  solution  should  to  be  fair  and  just.  We  therefore 
attach  high  importance  to  the  criterion  of  equitable 
geographical distribution, with an emphasis on the non- 
and underrepresented groups, particularly Africa, Asia 
and the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. 
As to the non-permanent category, strengthening a fair 
and  equitable  rotation  system  within  a  geographical 
regional group is an important issue for my delegation. 
In that respect, my delegation also supports the addition 
of  seats  to  the  current  regional  groups,  specifically 
with  a  view  to  ensuring  the  representation  of  small 
developing States.
In  conclusion,  it  is  our  firm  belief  that  only 
through  genuine  text-based  negotiations  will  we  find 
convergences and bridge our differences so as to achieve 
a meaningful and early reform of the Security Council.
Mr. Gafoor (Singapore): I would like to thank the 
President  for  convening  this  plenary  meeting  early 
in  his  presidency  and  for  giving  priority  to  the  issue 
of  Security  Council  reform.  We  welcome  the  active 
engagement of the President in that important process.
in  congratulating 
Ambassador Kaha Imnadze of Georgia and Ambassador 
Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
on  their  appointment  as  the  new  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. We are confident that they will continue to lead 
the  work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  in  an 
join  previous 
I 
speakers 
inclusive, transparent and efficient manner, and that we 
will make progress under their leadership.
We  would  also  like  to  place  on  record  our 
appreciation to the former co-Chairs, Ambassador Ion 
Jinga  of  Romania  and  Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled 
Khiari of Tunisia. Their excellent work during the last 
round of intergovernmental negotiations culminated in 
an important paper on the elements of commonality and 
issues for further consideration. I commend both of them 
for their leadership and hard work. The paper that they 
prepared builds on the work of the intergovernmental 
negotiations over the past two years. Together with the 
framework document and the elements of convergence 
paper, their latest paper provides a good foundation for 
our work in the intergovernmental negotiations at the 
seventy-second session of the General Assembly.
As we resume another year of negotiations under the 
intergovernmental negotiations process, it is important 
to  keep  in  mind  a  few  facts.  The  intergovernmental 
negotiations  started  to  function  in  2009.  Before  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process,  the  open-
ended  working  group  was  launched  in  1993.  In 
other  words,  we  have  been  discussing  the  issue  for  a 
quarter of a century, as many previous speakers have 
mentioned.  No  one  expects  that  such  a  difficult  issue 
can  be  resolved  overnight.  But  nor  is  it  reasonable  or 
credible  to  expect  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process  to  continue  for  another  quarter  of  a  century 
without any results to show.
Allow me to put it starkly — is the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  a  help  or  hindrance  to  the 
reform  process?  The  answer  depends  on  whether 
that  process  is  able  to  deliver  concrete  progress.  If 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  is  able  to 
demonstrate progress, it will be regarded with respect 
and credibility. However, if it is not able to, there will 
be serious questions as to the value of continuing the 
intergovernmental negotiations process.
If  we  are  serious  about  reforming  the  Security 
Council, we need to inject a greater sense of urgency 
into  our  work  and  aim  to  reach  a  real  negotiating 
process.  We  cannot  treat  that  process  as  an  annual 
ritual  that  serves  merely  to  keep  delegations  busy 
and preoccupied. Ultimately, Security Council reform 
is the key to maintaining the relevance and credibility 
of the United Nations system as a whole. If the Security 
Council  continues  to  operate  in  a  business-as-usual 
manner,  it  will  be  unable  to  deal  effectively  with 
17-36269
19/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
the  intractable  challenges  that  we  all  face  in  today’s 
complex global environment.
that connection, to make some suggestions, which may 
help to guide our work during the upcoming session.
As a small State, Singapore has always been a firm 
advocate  and  defender  of  a  rules-based,  multilateral 
system. The role of the Security Council is critical in 
such a system. We therefore attach great importance to 
the intergovernmental negotiations process, because we 
want a transparent, accountable and effective Security 
Council. As a small State, Singapore does not stand to 
benefit  directly  from  any  particular  model  of  reform 
or  Security  Council  expansion.  What  we  seek  is  the 
strengthening  of  the  multilateral  system.  Singapore’s 
position on Security Council reform is clear.
in  making 
First,  we  believe 
the  Council 
more  representative  and  inclusive.  We  support  an 
expanded  membership  in  both  the  permanent  and 
the  non-permanent  categories  of  membership  in  the 
Council.  That  is  necessary,  in  our  view,  if  we  are  to 
ensure  that  the  composition  of  the  Council  embodies 
the  diverse  membership  of  the  United  Nations  as  it 
exists today.
Secondly,  reform  should  make  the  Council  more 
accountable, transparent and inclusive for all Member 
States.  In  particular,  the  reform  process  should  not 
disadvantage small States in their efforts to seek election 
to the Security Council. For many small countries like 
Singapore, that factor is important, as we do not have 
many opportunities to serve in the Council.
Thirdly,  our  work  must  make  the  Council  more 
effective  in  dealing  with  the  many  challenges  that  it 
faces  today.  All  that  Singapore  needs  and  expects  of 
the Security Council is that it be able to act swiftly and 
decisively when confronted by global crises. What we 
do not want is a Security Council that is paralysed by 
political divisions or prevented from acting by the use 
of the veto.
As  we  embark  on 
the  current  session  of 
intergovernmental negotiations, we need to build on the 
excellent  work  of  the  previous  co-Chairs  and  sustain 
the  momentum  for  progress.  The  paper  prepared 
by  the  co-Chairs  at  the  previous  intergovernmental 
negotiations  session  was  an  important  outcome,  as 
it  identified  in  one  consolidated  document  the  key 
elements of commonality on all five clusters of issues 
pursuant to decision 62/557, and it also listed other issues 
that merit further reflection and discussion. We need to 
use that paper to take our work forward. Allow me, in 
First,  we  need  to  look  anew  at  the  elements  of 
commonality and identify areas in which we can take 
advantage of the progress already made. For example, 
some  of  the  elements  of  convergence  relating  to  the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  and  its 
relationship with the General Assembly are already in 
the process of being implemented, such as an increase 
in  the  number  of  open  meetings  of  the  Council,  the 
regular meetings between the Presidents of the Security 
Council and the General Assembly, and the submission 
of annual reports by the Security Council.
In  that  regard,  we  welcomed  the  adoption  of  the 
revised Security Council presidential note S/2010/507, 
which  builds  on  previous  Security  Council  efforts 
to  improve  the  Council’s  working  methods  and  to 
enhance its efficiency and transparency, as well as the 
interaction  and  dialogue  with  non-Council  members 
and bodies. There is scope for the General Assembly to 
acknowledge and formalize those improvements so that 
they become standard work procedures, rather than ad 
hoc,  informal  measures  taken  by  the  Council.  In  our 
view,  there  are  some  practical  steps  that  we  can  take 
now,  without  making  any  amendments  to  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view  to  improving  the 
practices of the Security Council.
that  have  been 
Secondly,  we  should  continue  our  discussions 
on 
issues 
identified  for  further 
consideration. There will naturally be differing points 
of  view  and  perspectives,  but  that  should  not  prevent 
us  from  having  an  open  and  frank  discussion  of  the 
issues. We should attempt to narrow differences, try to 
broaden  the  elements  of  commonality,  and  hopefully 
include  new  areas  of  convergence.  In  that  regard,  we 
would  support  entering  into  substantive  negotiations 
by putting ideas and proposals on paper and having a 
focused debate on those ideas and proposals.
Thirdly,  we  should  revisit  some  of  the  issues 
that  enjoyed  strong  support  but  were  not  ultimately 
included  in  the  paper  prepared  by  the  co-Chairs  last 
year  as  points  of  commonality.  One  issue  that  could 
be considered for inclusion as a point of commonality 
is the growing support for the limitation of the use of 
the veto in cases involving mass atrocities. A majority 
of Member States support that proposal, and, as far as 
we recall, no delegation expressly objected to it at the 
previous intergovernmental negotiations session. In our 
20/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
view,  we  should  take  an  inclusive  approach  and  work 
to  improve  the  co-Chairs’  paper  with  new  points  of 
commonality, particularly when there is strong support 
for them.
the 
The suggestions that we have just made are aimed 
at  advancing 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
process.  As  we  have  said  many  times,  the  imperative 
for  Security  Council  reform  remains  more  real  than 
ever before. We need to accelerate the pace of our work 
aimed at achieving early and meaningful reforms. My 
delegation will work with the President of the General 
Assembly as well as with the two new co-Chairs and 
other  delegations  to  advance  the  reform  agenda  and 
make  the  Security  Council  more  open,  accountable, 
effective, and inclusive.
Ms.  Mejía  Vélez  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  meeting, 
which I consider to be of the utmost importance as it 
addresses  one  of  the  most  controversial  issues  within 
the  Organization,  namely,  undertaking  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  Undoubtedly,  as  the  President 
said this morning, this may very well be an opportunity 
for  all  of  us  to  finally  to  move  towards  a  consensus 
that  would  enable  us  to  progress  consistently  within 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  would  like  to 
join  my  colleagues  who  spoke  before  me  in  thanking 
Ambassadors  Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  and  Mohamed 
Khiari  of  Tunisia  for  their  successful  and  very 
constructive  work  guiding  the  discussion  process  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations during the previous 
session.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
Ambassadors Kaha Imnadze of Georgia and Lana Zaki 
Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates for taking the 
reins as the new co-Chairs.
The reform process is one that requires the entire 
membership to continue moving forward in identifying 
those points that bring us closer together in discussions, 
so that we can finally count on a Security Council that 
reflects  the  current  geopolitical  reality,  its  various 
nuances  and  the  need  for  greater  accountability  and 
transparency  in  the  Council’s  work.  On  behalf  of  my 
country and in aligning myself with the statement made 
by the representative of Italy on behalf of the Uniting 
for Consensus group, I would like to highlight several 
elements that we consider to be of key importance for 
the beginning of the current session.
First, the moment is undoubtedly ripe for advancing 
the process with new vigour, as the President said in his 
statement this morning. To achieve that, it is important, 
in  our  view,  to  reiterate  once  again  that  —  for  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  —  the  fundamental 
difference with respect to other proposals lies only in 
our firm conviction that a Council of more democratic 
and inclusive nature would result from the participation 
of a greater number of elected members. We would also 
seek to prevent the expansion of privileges such as the 
right of the veto.
We  believe 
the  most  representative 
Organization at the global level, the United Nations must 
lead by example — which should be manifest particularly 
in the body that is fundamentally responsible for peace 
and international stability. Attaining that goal rests on 
two  fundamental  pillars:  regional  representation  and 
the accountability emanating from regular elections. In 
that context, the document produced by the co-Chairs 
at  the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
made it clear that all Member States, without exception, 
wish to reform the Security Council.
that,  as 
We  understand  that  after  the  several  decades 
since  the  previous  reform  and  the  10  years  of 
intergovernmental negotiations, the issue of expanding 
the Council has assumed the utmost importance if we 
wish to improve the representation of the regions and 
groups  that  are  underrepresented,  such  as  Africa  and 
my  own  region,  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean, 
to  give  just  two  examples  —  as  was  made  clear  in 
Sierra  Leone’s  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States.
By  adopting  the  proposal  of  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  group,  we  could 
finally  achieve  a 
membership size that is fair in relation to the weighting 
of  issues  on  the  Council’s  agenda  and  geopolitical 
representation. Inclusivity and democracy in the reform 
of  the  Council  will  not  be  achieved  by  perpetually 
extending  the  privileges  of  a  few  with  regard  to 
permanent  membership  and  the  right  to  veto,  as  has 
been  reiterated  by  a  number  of  delegations  that  have 
already made their statements.
On the other hand and in line with the proposal of 
the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  we  must  insist  that 
a  process  of  regular  elections  and  fair  geographical 
regional distribution is the way to ensure a strengthened 
Security  Council.  Furthermore,  as  explained  by 
longer 
Ambassador 
Inigo  Lambertini  of 
Italy, 
17-36269
21/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
membership  terms  would  strengthen  the  inclusive 
nature of the system, allowing the Council to become 
a more representative, transparent and effective space, 
with sufficient legitimacy for the permanent fulfilment 
and implementation of its mandates.
For  Colombia,  it  is  important  to  stress  that 
expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
must  respect  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality,  as 
enshrined  in  Article  2  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. That is why it is our duty to work in such a way 
as to ensure that the United Nations is ready to face the 
challenge of a world that demands that everyone play 
an active role in building a peaceful and increasingly 
inclusive society.
Mr.  Kafle  (Nepal):  Nepal  commends  President 
Lajčák’s  initiative  in  holding  this  debate  on  the 
important  agenda  item  of  Security  Council  reform.  I 
congratulate the Permanent Representative of Georgia 
and the Permanent Representative of the United Arab 
Emirates  on  their  being  appointed  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process. My delegation 
believes that the negotiations process will soon resume 
under  their  able  leadership  and  dedication  to  steer  it 
with active and participatory consultations. I wish every 
success  to  the  co-Chairs  and  pledge  my  delegation’s 
full  cooperation.  I  would  also  like  to  compliment 
the  important  leadership  of  the  past  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
We  must  acknowledge 
the  unanimity  among 
Member States on the urgent need to reform the Security 
Council. However, the intergovernmental negotiations 
have  become  increasingly  complex  and  slow  moving, 
with  far  too  limited  progress.  The  challenge  ahead 
is  to  build  on  the  progress  made  so  far  and  exhibit 
the  political  will  to  move  forward.  My  delegation 
commends  the  elements  of  convergence  that  have 
emerged  on  two  key  issues,  namely,  the  relationship 
between the Council and the General Assembly and the 
size  of  an  enlarged  Security  Council  and  its  working 
methods. We must continue to build on that progress, 
while combining synergies and the strongest sense of 
cooperation for the next steps.
We live in a world that has undergone significant 
changes.  The  global  political  landscape  has  changed 
dramatically, and the contours of the balance of power 
are being redefined. The United Nations has expanded 
four-fold since its creation, while the Security Council 
has  experienced  just  one  limited  expansion.  Reform 
is essential in order to ensure that the Council will be 
able  to  handle  the  challenges  of  the  modern  era  and 
the  emerging  realities.  The  current  state  of  affairs  is, 
therefore, not an option, and Nepal calls for flexibility 
from  Member  States  to  reach  convergence  on  other 
remaining clusters so that we can move forward in the 
reform process.
Nepal has been a long-standing partner in United 
Nations  peacekeeping  and  civilian  protection  around 
the world and is honoured to have served twice so far 
in  the  Council.  As  far  as  Security  Council  reform  is 
concerned,  Nepal  does  not  belong  to  any  group  and 
from its national perspective merely wishes to reiterate 
a number of points. The expansion of the number of both 
permanent and non-permanent members of the Security 
Council  must  reflect  the  contemporary  geopolitical 
reality. In short, Nepal underscores the need for greater 
representation  in  the  Council  for  Asia,  Africa,  Latin 
America and other regional groups. The expansion of 
the  permanent  member  category  should  correct  that 
historical error and ensure the representation of Africa, 
among others.
In 
the  merit  of 
Likewise,  it  is  essential  to  ensure  the  equitable 
that 
representation  of  developing  countries. 
connection,  Nepal  understands 
the 
aspirations  of  the  Group  of  Four  to  join  the  Council 
as  permanent  members.  Nepal  believes  in  the  fair 
and  judicious  principle  of  rotation  on  a  regional  and 
subregional  basis.  In  particular,  the  contribution  to 
international  peace  and  security  should  be  given  due 
recognition during nomination and election, especially 
when  the  contributing  countries  are  relatively  small 
and  face  special  situations,  such  as  the  landlocked 
developing  countries  or  countries  emerging  from 
conflict.  In  fact,  the  landlocked  developing  countries 
should  be  represented  as  a  special  constituency 
in  the  Council,  based  on  their  special  permanent 
feature  of  a  geographical  hardship  with  serious 
security implications.
Nepal  supports  the  total  elimination  of  the  right 
to veto, in conformity with the principle of sovereign 
equality.  Nevertheless,  until  we  reach  the  state  of  the 
absolute abolition of the right to veto, Nepal supports 
exercising  restraint  on  the  use  of  the  veto.  There 
should be no new tier of members introduced, such as 
permanent members with or without veto. The expansion 
of  membership  should  ensure  equitable  geographical 
representation and should enhance inclusiveness in the 
decision-making process of the Security Council. Any 
22/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  should  take  into 
account the concerns of the smaller countries.
The  Council  should  neither  be  so  big  that  its 
efficiency is seriously compromised, nor so small that 
it fails to be representative. Therefore, the size of the 
Security  Council  should  be  expanded  to  24,  ensuring 
that  each  non-permanent  member  of  the  Council 
can  hold  the  presidency  at  least  once  during  its  two-
year  term.  The  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  a 
Member  State-driven  process.  We  stress  the  need  for 
a  democratic,  representative,  transparent,  inclusive, 
effective,  efficient  and  accountable  process  to  make 
the Council fit for purpose in fulfilling the mandate of 
maintaining international peace and security.
Nepal affirms that the Council should not encroach 
on  the  authority  and  work  of  the  General  Assembly 
and  other  organs.  While  we  welcome  the  increased 
exchange of information between the Presidents of the 
General Assembly and the Security Council, we would 
also like to see an enhanced level of coordination and 
consultation between the two bodies so as to maintain 
accountability, transparency and coherence in the work 
of the Council.
information-sharing 
In  order  to  enhance  transparency  there  should 
be  more  briefings  and 
for 
non-members about the decisions of the Council. While 
welcoming the Council’s open meetings, which enable 
non-members to be heard, the Council should also seek 
to  ensure  that  all  important  ideas  are  taken  on  board 
in  the  decision-making  process.  In  conclusion,  only 
the strong political will and flexibility for convergence 
among Member States with regard to the much-needed 
Security Council reform will contribute to enabling the 
Council  to  fulfil  its  goal  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security  and  creating  a  peaceful  world. 
Sooner rather than later, all Member States should kick-
start their efforts in that direction.
Ms.  Lodhi  (Pakistan):  Pakistan  aligns  itself  with 
the statement delivered by Italy on behalf of the Uniting 
for Consensus group. My delegation also congratulates 
the  Ambassadors  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Georgia  on  their  appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process.  We  assure 
them of our full support in moving this process forward.
Over  the  years,  we  have  become  accustomed 
to  hearing  a  litany  of  complaints  from  a  handful  of 
delegations about the slow pace of reform. They argue 
that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  has 
become  a  means  to  perpetuate  the  status  quo,  rather 
than a vehicle of change; and that in time the process 
has become an end in itself.
themselves,  anchored 
Taken  at  face  value,  that  view  has  merit,  but  we 
cannot  but  marvel  at  those  delegations  for  liberally 
blaming others when the responsibility for the impasse 
lies squarely on them. These countries seek a privileged 
and  unequal  status  for 
in 
power  politics,  which  is  in  sharp  contradiction  to  the 
democratic spirit of our times. Even more telling, while 
they remain firmly wedded to their positions, they ask 
others to be flexible. It is equally disingenuous for them 
to invoke the majority principle in seeking membership 
of the Council, when they deny the same principle to 
the  larger  membership  of  the  United  Nations  when 
they are being held to account. It is not a lack of will 
on the part of the many, but a lack of will on the part 
of  a  few  that  remains  the  most  persistent  stumbling 
block  in  the  way  of  achieving  a  more  representative, 
transparent,  accountable  and  effective  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
Decision  62/557  lays  the  overarching  framework 
and  mandate  for  intergovernmental  negotiations  —  a 
membership-driven process with the aim of achieving 
comprehensive reform on the five equally important and 
interlinked issues, which are to be facilitated in good 
faith, with mutual respect and in an open, inclusive and 
transparent manner, with the objective of achieving the 
widest possible political acceptance on the part of the 
membership. Those are not just noble aspirations, but 
agreed parameters for reform.
Yet what we have seen, unfortunately, is the repeated 
tendency by some to sidestep consensus through quick 
fixes  and  procedural  manoeuvres.  Such  attempts  not 
only turn the process into a majority-minority calculus 
and undermine mutual trust, but they also betray a lack 
of common understanding over the fundamentals of the 
issue. Seeking to introduce a text into such a chasm will 
not bridge our differences, it will accentuate them. We 
would be better served by not chasing such a chimera. 
What is required is not to set artificial deadlines, but 
instead,  to  heed  the  call  for  flexibility  and  readiness 
to  find  common  ground.  The  Uniting  for  Consensus 
group  has  lived  by  that  ideal,  calibrating  its  position 
to  reflect  the  interests  and  aspirations  of  all  Member 
States — small, medium-sized and large. It is time for 
others to show the same spirit of compromise and the 
same spirit of flexibility.
17-36269
23/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
Pakistan’s views on Security Council reform are well 
known. We are firmly opposed to the creation of new 
permanent seats, as they are contrary to the universally 
agreed  principles  of  democracy,  accountability  and 
transparency. After all, permanent membership remains 
at  the  core  of  much  that  is  flawed  about  the  existing 
Security  Council.  It  is  therefore  counter-intuitive,  in 
our view, to advocate an expansion in the Council as a 
means to address its inherent dysfunctionalities. That 
could, at best, be a measure to promote the self-serving 
interests of a few who deride the permanent membership 
as an anachronism, yet stand ready to embrace it in the 
same breath. It cannot become the rationale for a well-
meaning and comprehensive reform effort. An enlarged 
permanent membership of the Security Council would 
also compromise its efficiency and effectiveness.
At  a  time  when  growing  and  complex  challenges 
to  global  peace  and  security  warrant  firm  and  clear 
action by the Security Council, an enlarged permanent 
membership,  operating  on  the  basis  of  the  least 
common  denominator,  would  erode  the  standing  of 
the Council and not strengthen its role, as some would 
have  us  believe.  On  the  other  hand,  expansion  in  the 
non-permanent  category  of  membership,  based  on 
equitable geographic distribution and a system of fair 
rotation,  a  solution  that  my  country  favours,  is  both 
fair  and  just  and  is  supported  by  all  Member  States 
and  groups.  That  should  serve  as  a  natural  point  of 
departure for any reform of the Security Council.
It  also  speaks  to  the  imperative  of  reflecting 
contemporary  realities.  As  contemporary  realities 
are  tied  to  the  present,  how  can  a  permanent  status 
be  bestowed  upon  a  transitory,  impermanent  state. 
That  inconsistency  can  be  answered  only  by  longer-
term  non-permanent  seats  with  possible  re-election. 
Similarly, an expansion in the non-permanent category 
will foster a wider and fairer rotation within regional 
groups.  What  is  needed  are  seats  for  the  regions,  not 
seats merely claimed on their behalf.
On  the  issue  of  regional  representation,  we  fully 
respect  the  Common  African  Position,  which  voices 
the demand of an entire continent, as being inherently 
different  from  the  demand  for  permanent  seats  in 
pursuit of narrow national ambitions.
In conclusion, let me reaffirm that Pakistan remains 
steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  comprehensive  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  Anything  less  would  be  a 
great disservice to the United Nations and the inspiring 
vision that it espouses for all our collective humankind.
Mr. Jürgenson (Estonia): At the outset, allow me 
to thank the President for convening today’s debate on 
this crucial topic. We are all convinced that the United 
Nations  has  to  be  fit  for  purpose  and  that  Security 
Council reform should help to make the United Nations 
more  credible  and  stronger.  The  Security  Council 
needs to have the capacity and readiness to adequately 
respond  to  all  the  challenges  in  the  world  and  live 
up  to  its  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  But  that  has  not, 
unfortunately, always been the case.
Before  turning  to  some  elements  most  important 
to Estonia regarding the reform, I would like to thank 
the Permanent Representatives of Romania and Tunisia 
for  their  hard  work  leading  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations in the previous session and wish the very 
best for the Permanent Representatives of Georgia and 
United  Arab  Emirates  in  their  endeavours  during  the 
seventy-second session.
Now,  let  me  highlight  the  most  important  issues 
for Estonia in the Security Council reform process. We 
have had to witness, on numerous occasions, how some 
members of the Council have used or threatened to use 
the veto, leaving the Council paralysed and unable to 
react  to  situations  where  action  is  needed  the  most. 
Estonia has expressed before and continues to highlight 
its  position  that  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council  should  voluntarily  and  collectively  commit 
themselves not to use their veto to block Council action 
aimed  at  preventing  or  ending  situations  involving 
mass atrocity crimes.
As a member of the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency group, Estonia also supports the group’s 
code of conduct calling for all members of the Council 
not to vote against credible Security Council resolutions 
that are aimed at preventing or ending genocide, crimes 
against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  We  welcome  the 
wide support expressed by 114 Member States for the 
code  of  conduct.  Hopefully,  more  countries  will  be 
lending  their  support  to  the  code  in  the  near  future. 
Estonia has also reiterated its support for the initiative 
by France and Mexico on the use of the veto. We believe 
that those two initiatives are complementary and share 
a common goal.
Let  me  also  highlight  another  issue  important 
to  Estonia  regarding  the  expansion  of  the  Security 
24/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
Council. The United Nations must adapt to the realities 
of  current  times.  Estonia  believes  that  every  country, 
small  or  big,  should  have  the  opportunity  to  be 
represented in the Council, but it is absolutely vital that 
small nations have a stronger voice.
Finally,  let  me  emphasize  that  small  steps  in 
improving the working methods of the Security Council 
can  bring  about  a  positive  effect  with  much  wider 
reach. Estonia would like to see greater accountability, 
coherence and transparency of the Council’s activities 
through  increased  inclusiveness  and  targeted  action. 
These  principles  are  key  in  governing  our  State.  We 
consciously apply them, as we believe they will make 
our governance more effective and easier to understand 
by  people.  We  believe  that  the  same  principles  would 
have  an  even  greater  effect  at  the  regional  or  global 
level  and  therefore  should  be  embraced  and  used  by 
different  international  organizations,  including  the 
United  Nations.  As  a  body  representing  all  States 
Members of the United Nations, the Security Council 
could also benefit from these principles.
We  also  need  better  communication  between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Security  Council  should  be  kept  accountable  by  all 
Member  States  by  ensuring  more  transparency  in  its 
actions  and  more  cohesiveness  in  resolutions  and 
decisions. It is a shortcoming of the Council that its rules 
of procedure are still provisional. It is very much up to 
Council  members  to  make  use  of  existing  procedures 
and the Council’s different outreach formats to achieve 
a better outcome for their work.
to  engaging  constructively 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  Estonia’s 
commitment 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  seventy-
second  session 
reform 
process forward.
to  continue  moving 
the 
in 
Mr. Hahn Choonghee (Republic of Korea): I thank 
the President for his initiative in convening this annual 
debate on Security Council reform. I also extend a warm 
welcome  to  the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Nusseibeh  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Ambassador  Imnadze  of  Georgia. 
I have every confidence in their ability and leadership. 
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
Ambassador Jinga of Romania and Ambassador Khiari 
of Tunisia for their contributions as co-Chairs last year.
At  the  outset,  the  Republic  of  Korea  aligns  itself 
with the statement made by the representative of Italy 
on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus (UfC) group.
We all have agreed on the imperative of reforming 
the Security Council, and the reason why we have been 
pursuing this agenda is quite clear. Facing the complex 
challenges  of  today,  we  are  now  feeling  an  increased 
sense  of  urgency  to  transform  the  Security  Council 
into a more effective entity that is better able to fulfil 
its primary responsibility of maintaining international 
peace and security.
However,  we  have  unfortunately  not  seen  any 
meaningful  progress  since  we  started  our  discussions 
more  than  25  years  ago.  But  make  no  mistake:  the 
lack  of  progress,  I  believe,  is  not  due  to  our  inaction 
or a weak sense of urgency. If anything, this situation 
reflects the degree of sensitivity and gravity required 
in  this  discussion,  which  will  lead  to  a  sea  change 
in  the  international  geostrategic  landscape  and  the 
architecture  of  global  governance  and  will  eventually 
affect all people around the world. In this regard, let us 
remind ourselves that it is high time to think about the 
basics and purposes of our discussion and to redouble 
our efforts aimed at working together.
When  we  pursue  the  reform  of  the  Council,  I 
believe  that  the  most  important  factors  are,  first,  the 
principles  of  the  reform;  secondly,  the  process  of  our 
deliberations;  and,  thirdly,  the  actual  outcomes.  With 
respect to these three underlying factors, the Republic 
of Korea has very clear positions and views.
and 
First 
have 
foremost,  we 
repeatedly 
suggested  that  the  reform  must  be  based  on  clear 
principles,  namely,  a  democratic  underpinning, 
representativeness,  transparency,  accountability  and 
effectiveness.  I  am  pleased  to  see  that,  over  the  most 
recent  intergovernmental  negotiations  meetings,  we 
have  been  narrowing,  rather  than  widening,  the  gaps 
of our understanding on these principles. Without any 
hesitation, Korea firmly believes that the UfC position, 
which  is  highlighted  by  a  new  category  of  long-term 
re-electable  seat,  is  the  best  fit  for  all  our  principles, 
such  as  being  democratic,  representative,  accountable 
and effective.
Secondly,  our  entire  deliberative  process  should 
be,  as  decision  62/557  articulates,  aimed  at  seeking  a 
solution  that  can  garner  the  widest  possible  political 
acceptance  by  Member  States.  However,  there  must 
be  more  to  the  phrase  “the  widest  possible  political 
17-36269
25/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
acceptance”  than  just  a  number.  Indeed,  a  spirit  of 
working together towards a more expanded and robust 
consensus will be needed, particularly in an agenda as 
complicated as this one. At this moment, I believe that 
there is still a fundamental and philosophical difference 
of views between the expansion of permanent seats and 
the expansion of non-permanent seats with longer-term 
renewable terms.
Thirdly, Security Council reform is urgent, but the 
reform should be right and just. It must also be sustainable. 
Considering that the dynamics of international politics 
have been, and will constantly be, in a state of flux, it is 
of paramount importance to come up with a sustainable 
and  democratic  mechanism  in  the  Council  that  works 
in the long term. Through such a mechanism, aspirant 
countries,  including  African  States,  should  be  given 
appropriate opportunities — now and in the future — to 
play an enlarged role in the Council.
I  am  confident  that  only  through  the  creation  of 
the  longer-term  re-electable  seat  could  any  country 
apply  for  this  seat  at  any  time  —  now  or  in  future, 
when that country feels that it is ready to do so. This 
process,  based  on  the  election  of  a  candidate,  will 
ensure open competition and equal opportunity for all 
Member States.
To achieve our vision for a principled, sustainable 
and  most  widely  acceptable  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  along  with  other 
members  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  has 
proposed  to  establish  a  new  category  of  longer-term 
re-electable  non-permanent  seats.  Our  suggestion 
is  based  on  the  clear  conviction  that  reform  cannot 
be  accomplished  by  just  following  the  concepts  of 
permanency  and  veto,  which  was  a  system  reflecting 
the unique situation and context after the Second World 
War. Further, a merely enlarged version of the current 
Council will eventually exacerbate the very problems 
that  vex  us  today  rather  than  solve  them.  Instead,  we 
believe  that  increasing  the  number  of  democratically 
elected  non-permanent  seats,  including  longer-term 
seats, will alone offer a clear way forward. Moreover, it 
will avoid the problems of the veto altogether.
The permanency of seats and the veto represent a 
single issue — two sides of the same coin. Therefore, if 
we consider expanding the number of permanent seats, 
we will get entangled with the veto issue because the 
veto is inextricably linked to the concept of permanency; 
the problem lies in its very nature.
The  Republic  of  Korea  sincerely  hopes  that  the 
seventy-second  session  of 
the  General  Assembly 
and  the  coming  intergovernmental  negotiations  will 
produce tangible results as we strive to achieve the long-
overdue  reform  of  the  Council.  I  assure  the  General 
Assembly  that  the  Republic  of  Korea  stands  ready  to 
constructively work with others to formulate a solution 
that  can  garner  the  support  and  understanding  of  the 
entire membership, and one that the general public and 
the  people  of  the  international  community  can  fully 
believe in and welcome.
Mr.  Cortorreal  (Dominican  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  First  of  all,  I  appreciate  the  convening  of 
this  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to  discuss  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
related  matters.  We  welcome  the  appointment  of  our 
colleagues Ambassador Nusseibeh of the United Arab 
Emirates  and  Ambassador  Imnadze  of  Georgia  to 
co-chair  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  this 
issue.  We  also  thank  Ambassador  Jinga  of  Romania 
and Ambassador Khiari of Tunisia for their efforts in 
continuing to find points of convergence on the subject 
of Security Council reform.
Since the creation of the United Nations, the world 
has changed. The Security Council finds it increasingly 
difficult  to  prevent  conflicts,  consolidate  peace  and 
stop  atrocities.  In  this  context,  Security  Council 
reform  becomes  increasingly  critical.  We  believe  that 
such reform would guarantee the sustainability of the 
community  of  nations  and  global  causes.  We  believe 
that the Security Council must live up to the demands 
of today’s world and that of the future.
The Dominican Republic has been endorsed by the 
Group of Latin American and Caribbean States to take 
a  non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period  2019-2020,  in  the  elections  to  be  held  in  June 
2018. If we receive the mandate from the members of 
the  General  Assembly,  our  main  objective  will  be  to 
redouble  our  efforts  aimed  at  revitalizing  the  role  of 
the Security Council, thereby enabling this important 
organ to face the new challenges that currently exist for 
small island developing States, such as climate change, 
environmental degradation and the increased frequency 
of natural disasters.
I would like to briefly recapitulate our position on 
Security Council reform. We reiterate our support for 
the expansion of both categories of seats — permanent 
26/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
and  non-permanent —  in  the  Council.  In  this  regard, 
we call for an improved representation of Africa, Latin 
America and the Caribbean and other regions, thereby 
lending due consideration to the adequate representation 
of the small and medium-sized Member States, which 
account for the vast majority of the membership of the 
United Nations. Likewise, we consider it necessary to 
reform  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council 
with a view to increasing transparency and efficiency. 
We support the commitment to carrying out negotiations 
on  the  basis  of  decision  62/557,  which  the  General 
Assembly adopted in September 2008.
We already have a fairly comprehensive historical 
record  of  the  progress  made  during  this  cycle  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
the 
framework  document  prepared  by  the  Ambassador  of 
Jamaica in 2015, as well as the important contribution 
recorded  in  the  last  two  sessions.  We  believe  that, 
to  achieve  concrete  results  in  and  due  respect  for 
negotiation  processes  in  the  United  Nations,  political 
will is required.
in  particular 
in 
all 
constructively  participate 
Finally,  the  Dominican  Republic  would  like  to 
reiterate its willingness and commitment to continuing 
to 
initiatives 
undertaken  with  the  objective  of  creating  a  Security 
Council that reflects the diversity of the United Nations 
membership,  which  calls  for  the  broadest  flexibility 
in  negotiations.  We  believe  that  such  steps  would 
increase the legitimacy, transparency and inclusiveness 
of  the  Organization.  The  role  played  by  the  General 
Assembly  in  the  process  of  selecting  the  Secretary-
General demonstrated that all Member States can and 
must contribute to strengthening the work of the United 
Nations,  thus  updating  and  expanding  the  democratic 
character of global governance.
Mr.  Mlynár  (Slovakia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this important plenary meeting and inviting 
us  to  speak.  My  delegation  appreciates  the  fact  that 
the President has decided to advance Security Council 
reform  as  one  of  his  priorities  for  the  seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly and for his leadership 
on this important issue.
International  cooperation,  understanding  and 
genuine dialogue are increasingly necessary if we are 
to  meet  contemporary  global  challenges.  A  United 
Nations  system  that  is  fit  for  purpose  is  needed  to 
support  this  cooperation.  All  Member  States  seem  to 
agree in principle on the fundamental idea of reforming 
the United Nations in order to make it stronger and more 
responsive  to  the  people  it  serves.  Security  Council 
reform is an essential part of the comprehensive reform 
of  the  United  Nations,  and  Slovakia  continues  to  be 
committed to finding a favourable outcome in terms of 
Council reform so as to make the organ more broadly 
representative, efficient and transparent.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate 
Ambassador Kaha Imnadze, Permanent Representative 
of  Georgia,  and  Ambassador  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh, 
Permanent Representative of the United Arab Emirates, 
on  their  respective  appointments  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations. I would like to assure 
them  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation 
in  the  forthcoming  negotiations.  We  would  also  like 
to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  the  former 
co-Chairs, Ambassador Jinga and Ambassador Khiari, 
for their dedication and hard work.
We  welcome  the  intensified  efforts  undertaken 
during  previous  General  Assembly  sessions  to  bridge 
proposals and identify ways to move the work forward. 
We  should  continue  and  accelerate  the  process  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  based  on  the  results 
reached  by  the  end  of  the  sixty-ninth,  seventieth  and 
seventy-first  sessions.  I  should  like  to  note  that  my 
delegation joins other countries in calling for the start 
of text-based negotiations on Security Council reform 
that  would  give  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  a 
substantive  meaning  and  take  us  to  the  next  stage  in 
this important process.
The  position  of  my  delegation  on  the  possible 
review  of  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  is 
consistent and well documented. Slovakia supports the 
expansion  of  membership  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent categories and calls for an increase to 
no  more  than  25,  representing  geographical  balance. 
The new members of the Council should, as a principle, 
have  the  same  responsibilities  and  obligations  as  the 
current  ones.  I  wish  to  underscore  that  a  reformed 
Council  should  include  one  additional  non-permanent 
seat for the Group of Eastern European States.
We  welcome  the  developments  in  the  direction 
of  enhancing  the  Council’s  working  methods.  We 
hope  that  further  improvements  can  be  achieved  on 
issues  such  as  peacekeeping,  conflict  prevention, 
peacebuilding  and  peace  enforcement.  Similarly, 
we  welcome  positive  movements  towards  improving 
the  Council’s  relationship  with  other  United  Nations 
17-36269
27/29
A/72/PV.41 
07/11/2017
organs, such as the General Assembly, the Secretariat 
and the Peacebuilding Commission, inter alia, as well 
as  regional  and  subregional  organizations,  especially 
the  African  Union,  the  European  Union  and  others. 
These efforts should continue.
The  five  key  reform  issues  set  forth  in  decision 
62/557  remain  the  guiding  principles  of  our  work  in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  While  divergent 
opinions  remain  about  all  five  issues,  we  should 
explore  them  again  in  greater  detail,  giving  special 
consideration to the following: first, how best to address 
the  wide  political  acceptance  of  the  common  African 
position;  secondly,  how  best  to  reflect  the  changing 
global reality in an updated Security Council; thirdly, 
how  to  effectively  translate  the  universal  agreement 
on  the  expansion  of  the  two-year  non-permanent-
member  category  into  practice,  given  that  more  than 
60  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  have  never 
been  members  of  the  Security  Council  to  date;  and 
fourthly, how we can all move together to the next stage 
of negotiations.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  looks  forward  to 
engaging  in  open,  transparent,  inclusive  and  results-
oriented  negotiations,  with  a  view  to  moving  the 
process  forward  during  the  seventy-second  session  of 
the General Assembly.
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish):  I  thank  the  President  for  having  organized 
this meeting. I wish to take this opportunity to thank 
Ambassadors Jinga of Romania and Khiari of Tunisia for 
their skilful work as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  at  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  also  wish  to  congratulate  Ambassador 
Imnadze of Georgia and Ambassador Nusseibeh of the 
United Arab Emirates for their respective appointments 
as co-Chairs for this session. They can count on the full 
support  and  cooperation  of  my  delegation  in  working 
constructively  on  the  issue  that  we  are  being  asked 
to consider.
Argentina  endorses  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  group.  Nevertheless,  I  wish  to  make  a 
number of points.
 Once again, today we are tackling the work before 
us aware of the need to be flexible and find agreement. 
We  are  profoundly  committed 
to  multilateralism 
because  such  a  commitment  is  the  only  guarantee  of 
success.  Argentina  trusts  that  all  delegations  will 
demonstrate  similar  flexibility  because  only  through 
multilateralism, based on concrete actions and leadership 
capability, will they be able to uphold the interests of all 
nations and bring about a Security Council that is more 
democratic,  truly  inclusive  and  efficient,  and  which 
could adequately fulfil the responsibilities assigned to 
it by the Charter of the United Nations.
  Argentina  was  dismayed  by  the  outcome  of  the 
last  round of intergovernmental negotiations because 
we saw a group of countries stating that there was no 
agreement on the principle of democracy as a principal 
guide  in  the  reform  of  the  Council.  The  principle  of 
accountability is crucial to ensure a more effective and 
efficient Security Council, which is an objective that, to 
date, has not met with disagreement.
If the Security Council is to be more effective and 
efficient,  we  need  to  enhance  the  transparency  of  its 
actions and strengthen its democratic representativeness. 
Argentina  is  therefore  convinced  that  during  the  next 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process  there  needs 
to  be  an  interest  in  achieving  a  more  broad  political 
agreement on Security Council reform and that issues 
of principle need to be addressed without delay, leading 
to  agreements  on  such  fundamental  principles  as 
equitable  representation  and  membership  categories, 
inter alia.
 Based on our experience from this long process of 
negotiation, Argentina continues to be ready and willing 
to  find  innovative  and  robust  ways  that  will  ensure  a 
more democratic representation on the Security Council, 
improve the prospects of non-permanent members and 
reform the working methods of the Council, making it 
more transparent, interactive and inclusive. The Charter 
states that in order to ensure rapid and effective action 
on the part of the United Nations, its Members entrusted 
the  Security  Council  with  the  primary  responsibility 
of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security. 
It  also  recognizes  that  the  Security  Council  acts 
on  behalf  of  Members  in  discharging  the  functions 
imposed by this responsibility.
The  victors  of  the  Second  World  War  assumed 
that responsibility on a permanent basis, but any State 
that  sees  peace  as  a  key  element  of  its  development 
would  must  actively  assume  that  responsibility  as 
well.  Argentina  therefore  supports  only  an  increase 
in 
the  non-permanent-member  category,  because 
permanency  is  intrinsically  antagonistic  to  the  notion 
of representativeness in a democratic context in which 
28/29 
17-36269
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.41
the will of the represented legitimizes and periodically 
informs such representativeness. It is well known that 
any  legitimate  and  representative  democratic  system 
worthy of the name is underpinned by the fundamental 
element  of  elections.  Moreover,  Argentina  believes 
that including new permanent members on the Council 
would not ensure greater participation of the members 
that today are not represented therein and considers the 
idea of expanding the permanent-member category in 
the context of today’s extremely complex and evolving 
international reality to be unpromising.
reform, 
  Since  the  Organization’s  very  inception,  the 
Argentine  Republic  has  explicitly  defended 
the 
principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States.  Against 
the  backdrop  of  Security  Council 
this 
principle  will  be  upheld  only  if  we  create  conditions 
in  which  every  Member  State  has  a  chance  to  serve 
as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
giving  greater  prominence  to  regional  representation 
by adjusting the relative proportions of regional group 
to  bring  about  more  equitable  representation.  The 
proposal  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  takes 
this  concern  into  account  and  is  the  only  proposal  of 
commitment presented in recent years to address in a 
balanced and fair manner the aspirations of the different 
groups that have participated in the intergovernmental 
negotiation process.
Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council  is  of  the  utmost  relevance  for  Argentina.  We 
have taken every opportunity to encourage the Council 
to  work  in  a  transparent  and  open  fashion  and  be 
accountable for all its actions before the Organization 
as a whole.
 In conclusion, Argentina reiterates and reaffirms 
its willingness to continue working with an open mind 
on all proposals which, respecting the principles granted 
by the General Assembly, would bring positions closer 
with  a  view  to  implement  the  necessary  democratic 
reform of the Security Council.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  for  this  morning’s  meeting  on 
this  matter.  I  wish  to  thank  the  interpretation  service 
for its commitment and patience.
Programme of work
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): Before 
closing this meeting, I wish to remind members that the 
consideration of agenda item 73, entitled “Strengthening 
of the coordination of humanitarian and disaster relief 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  including  special 
economic assistance” (including sub-items (a), (b) and 
(c)),  which  was  to  take  place  in  a  meeting  scheduled 
to  take  place  on  Thursday,  7  December,  has  been 
postponed to Friday, 8 December at 3 p.m.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
17-36269
29/29
