United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
4th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 19 September 2017, 12.05 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.4
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hilale 
(Morocco), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 12.05 p.m.
Address by Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, President 
of the Republic of Liberia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Liberia.
the 
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Ellen 
Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Liberia, 
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Johnson-Sirleaf: The  seventy-second 
regular  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  being 
convened at a time of historic transition in Liberia and 
during a period of acute challenges to the global order. 
Today we face the threat of climate change, the violence 
of terrorism, the risks and indignaty of migration and a 
nuclear escalation on the Korean peninsula. Moreover, 
there is a race against time to accommodate a restless, 
youthful  population  in  search  of  opportunity  and  a 
brighter future.
I would like to congratulate the Secretary-General 
on his election. His progressive and creative leadership 
assures us of his commitment and his action to reform 
the  United  Nations  for  increased  efficiency,  better 
coordination  and  gender  parity  by  2021  at  the  senior 
leadership level. My delegation is also pleased with the 
initial  steps  taken  towards  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
I also wish to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session. His vast experience and strong 
diplomatic skills assure us that he will steer the affairs 
of  this  session  in  an  effective  manner.  The  Liberian 
delegation offers him its full cooperation and support.
I would also like to recognize Mr. Peter Thompson 
of  Fiji  for  his  stewardship  over  the  past  year,  which 
saw  the  launch  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  the  successful  conduct  of  the  first 
Ocean Conference.
Our theme this year is “Focusing on people: Striving 
for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet”,  which  aptly  captures  a  universal  aspiration. 
I hope that, at the conclusion of our deliberations, we 
will forge a consensus and renew our commitment as 
leaders to transform the lives of our peoples and meet 
our  responsibilities  to  our  planet.  The  work  of  the 
United  Nations  has  never  been  more  important  to  the 
search for peace and sustenance for global stability than 
it is today.
By its Charter and its purposes, the United Nations 
continues  to  represent  the  genius  of  our  collective 
ability  to  live  together  in  peace  and  harmony.  It  still 
offers  great  hope  to  a  troubled  world.  Liberians  bear 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29122 (E)
*1729122*
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
witness to this truth and remain grateful to the United 
Nations,  and  all  of  its  organs  and  agencies,  for  the 
critical  security  interventions  and  continued  support 
for Liberia’s recovery and democratic aspirations.
Eleven years ago, in September 2006, I stood before 
the  Assembly  (see  A/61/PV.11)  as  the  newly  elected 
President of the Republic of Liberia and the first woman 
to be democratically elected as a Head of State on the 
African  continent.  When  I  speak  to  women  in  Africa 
and across the world, I am humbled by the inspiration 
drawn from my experience. The next generation must 
belong to women.
Today  I  address  the  Assembly  for  the  last  time 
as  I  bring  my  two  terms  of  elected  office  to  a  close. 
Liberia  is  just  22  days  away  from  historic  legislative 
and  presidential  elections.  It  will  mark  the  first  time 
in  73  years  that  political  power  will  be  handed  over 
peacefully and democratically from one elected leader 
to another. That will pave the way for the next generation 
of Liberians to lead the country into the future.
The election will signal the irreversible course that 
Liberia  has  embarked  upon  to  consolidate  its  young, 
post-conflict democracy. Democracy is on the march in 
Liberia and, I believe, on an irreversible path forward 
on the African continent. I thank all our partners who 
have made meaningful contributions — financial and 
in  kind  —  to  ensure  peaceful  elections,  and  those 
organizations  that  will  deploy  observer  missions  to 
attest to the integrity of the election process.
I  assumed  office  after  25  years  of  development 
reversal, which was further compounded by a 15-year 
civil  war.  We  have  made  great  progress  and  laid  the 
foundation  for  the  next  democratic  Government.  We 
have  reshaped  the  armed  forces  of  Liberia  and  the 
Liberia  national  police  and  have  professionalized 
our  customs  and  immigration  services  and  the  small 
Liberian coast guard. We are proud to report that, since 
the formal turnover of security responsibilities to our 
Government,  Liberia  has  remained  stable,  peaceful 
and secure.
We  transformed  the  economy  from  a  growth  rate 
of  less  than  zero  to  more  than  8.7  per  cent  in  2013, 
until  the  health  crisis  and  plummeting  commodity 
prices  brought  a  downturn  to  our  economic  recovery. 
Liberia has adjusted. We are resilient, and we embrace 
diversification.  Our  focus  today  is  on  strengthening 
and 
the 
for  value-addition 
agriculture 
sector 
infrastructure  development,  with  emphasis  on  roads 
and energy industrialization.
Previously  dysfunctional  public  institutions  now 
have the capacity to respond to the needs of our citizens 
through  decentralized  county  service  centres,  with 
ownership  by  strong  local  Governments.  And  from 
the  tragedy  of  the  health  crisis,  we  are  strengthening 
our  health-care  systems,  prioritizing  prevention  and 
delivering  capacity  at  the  community  level.  The 
impact is being felt. Life expectancy progressed from 
a low 47 years to a hopeful 62 years, with a reduction 
in  maternal  deaths  from  1,400  to  1,100  —  an  annual 
rate of reduction of 3.4 per cent. The poverty rate has 
decreased from 63.8 per cent in 2007 to 50.9 per cent 
in 2016.
Infrastructure has been repaired and restored, and 
we continue to rehabilitate damaged roads and construct 
new ones. Cities and towns are bustling with new life, 
thanks to the increasing provision of electricity, potable 
water and technology. It is now possible to receive voice 
and data on phones and mobile devices from virtually 
everywhere in the country, at competitively low prices.
Liberia has enjoyed the benefit of multilateralism 
through the full support provided by the United Nations, 
the  African  Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of 
West African States (ECOWAS). From being a pariah 
State, Liberia has gradually regained the confidence of 
nations and has even risen to assume leadership roles 
in regional bodies — specifically of ECOWAS and the 
Mano River Union.
I  was  personally  privileged  to  play  a  role  in  the 
formulation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development as co-Chair of former Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon’s  High-level  Panel  on  the  Post-2015 
Development  Agenda  and  to  help  frame  the  African 
common position as Chair of the African Union high-
level committee.
There  is  so  much  more  to  share  about  Liberia’s 
post-conflict 
transformation  —  how  we  have 
empowered  ordinary  citizens  and  a  shared  sense  of 
citizenship, giving women, including market and rural 
women,  a  voice  and  the  right  to  be  heard.  We  have 
continued  to  transform  the  health-care  and  education 
systems,  engender  the  entrepreneurial  spirit  in  our 
youth, our vibrant media and our civil society. We are 
establishing  cross-border  development  corridors  to 
enhance  regional  trade,  and  we  are  strengthening  the 
rule of law to tackle systemic undermining of integrity. 
2/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
Liberia  is  experiencing  the  birth  of  a  post-conflict 
artistic community in song, hip-hop, painting, poetry, 
storytelling and fashion.
Liberia  has  come  a 
long  way.  We  could 
not  have  accomplished  all  of 
the 
Organization — its political leadership, the generosity 
of  its  economic  development  support,  humanitarian 
contributions and, most important, the stabilization and 
security  provided  to  our  country  through  the  United 
Nations Mission in Liberia.
that  without 
I applaud you, Mr. President, and your predecessors, 
the  Member  States  and  United  Nations  civil  servants 
around  the  world  who  have  sacrificed  in  order  for  us 
to see the very first generation of school-age children 
growing  up  in  an  environment  of  peace,  free  of  the 
violence  of  civil  conflict.  Liberia’s  transformation 
was  powered  by  a  world  community  that  made  a 
shared commitment to deliver peace to a country and 
a  subregion  beset  by  civil  conflict  and  cross-border 
destabilization.  The  United  Nations  and  its  partner 
nations were of one mind, and from that global unity 
a  new  democratic  Liberian  State  was  born.  Liberia  is 
a  post-conflict  success  story.  It  is  the  Organization’s 
post-conflict success story.
Thirdly,  real  progress  remains  elusive  in  the 
lingering effort to reform the Security Council and make 
it more responsive to current global realities. The call 
for that reform must be pursued more robustly towards 
an early conclusion. Africa’s views are well articulated 
in the Ezulwini Consensus. Today African nations are 
participating in strong regional and subregional bodies, 
which  are  evolving  —  adopting  measures  to  secure 
and  preserve  peace  and  security,  while  strengthening 
economic integration.
The  United  Nations,  as  the  pre-eminent  world 
body, must also continue to evolve to more effectively 
serve  the  common  interests  of  all  Member  States.  It 
must continue to chart the way forward. In its capable 
hands  rest  the  hope  and  aspirations  for  a  more  just, 
peaceful and humane world, for the sake of our people 
and our planet.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Liberia  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made.
Mrs.  Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
As I bid farewell to the Assembly today, and to my 
fellow Heads of State, I have a few parting thoughts.
Address by Mr. Emmanuel Macron, President of 
the French Republic
First, remember Liberia, which is making vibrant 
efforts  to  apply  the  tenets  of  democracy.  Consider 
the  lives  saved,  the  wealth  created,  the  stability 
assured because this global body led at a time of great 
uncertainty in our subregion and around the world. I ask 
the States Members of the United Nations to continue to 
lead, to spread the values of democracy, human rights 
and  good  governance,  while  strengthening  solidarity 
for economic transformation and social resilience. It is 
often  in  times  of  transition  that  great  leaders  emerge 
and institutions are strengthened.
Secondly, I recall that two years ago, at its seventieth 
session,  the  Assembly  adopted  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, which includes 17 Goals that 
encapsulate the aspirations of Member States to eradicate 
poverty and reduce, if not eliminate, inequalities within 
and between countries. Our commitment to achieving 
the  Goals  must  be  unwavering,  because  progress  in 
that area is inextricably linked to ending conflict and 
sustaining peace.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the French Republic.
Mr.  Emmanuel  Macron,  President  of 
the 
French  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emmanuel 
Macron, President of the French Republic, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Macron  (spoke 
in  French):  I  am 
privileged  to  address  the  General  Assembly,  and  I 
know to whom I owe this privilege. I owe it to all those 
who, just over 70 years ago, rose up against a barbaric 
regime that had seized my country, France. I owe it to 
the nations that heard the cry of those who resisted and 
that from the Americas, Africa, Oceania and Asia sent 
their sons and daughters to France to help. Not all of 
them  were  familiar  with  France,  but  they  knew  that 
17-29122
3/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
France’s defeat would also mean the defeat of the ideals 
they shared. They were proud of those ideals and were 
prepared to die to uphold them. They knew that their 
freedom and values were dependent upon the freedom 
of  other  men  and  other  women  living  thousands  of 
kilometres from them.
I owe the privilege to those who, once the war had 
ended, dared to attempt reconciliation and built a new 
international order. I owe it to people who, like René 
Cassin, understood that human rights were at the very 
core of international legitimacy. I owe it to people who 
brought the guilty to justice, tended to the victims and 
rectified mistakes. I owe it to those who believed that 
the values that the war had trampled must be restored 
to their rightful place.
Tolerance,  freedom  and  humanity  are  the  values 
on which the United Nations was built. And it was not 
because those values were beautiful but rather because 
they were just and made it possible to avoid the worst.
I do not speak of all this merely to talk about history, 
but  because  today  I  hear  several  of  our  colleagues 
talking  about  the  future  of  our  world,  and  forgetting 
somewhat where we have come from. What might seem 
exotic and far removed from our immediate interests is 
perhaps what determines and will determine most what 
lies ahead for us.
My  country  might  have  a  unique  place  in  the 
international  order,  but  that  means  that  it  is  also 
indebted to all those whose voices have gone unheard. I 
know that the duty of France is to speak for those whose 
voices  are  not  heard.  If  we  speak  for  them,  we  also 
speak for ourselves — now and for the future. Today I 
would like to speak for those forgotten voices.
I have heard Bana, who lives in Aleppo and whose 
voice  I  want  to  bring  here.  She  has  lived  under  the 
horror of bombings, of police and militia. She has lived 
in  refugee  camps.  The  Syrian  people  have  suffered 
enough for the international community to acknowledge 
its collective failure and to question its methods.
group made up of all of the five permanent members of 
the Security Council and relevant stakeholders.
The so-called Astana process can be useful, but it is 
not enough, and the past few days have revealed many 
problems. We have to give ourselves the resources we 
really need to begin negotiations, because the solution 
will  ultimately  be  a  political  rather  than  a  military 
one. It is in the interests of all of us and, of course, in 
Syrians’ interests above all.
In that context, I have already stated what our two 
red lines are. First, France will not waver where the use 
of chemical weapons is concerned. The perpetrators of 
the attack of 4 April must be brought to international 
justice,  and  that  must  never  happen  again.  Secondly, 
it is absolutely crucial to ensure access to health care 
for  all  men  and  women  and  enable  medical  facilities 
to  protect  civilians.  France  will  make  this  one  of  the 
priorities  of  its  presidency  of  the  Security  Council 
next month.
When  we  act  to  achieve  peace  in  Syria  we  are 
acting  for  the  Syrian  people,  but  we  are  also  doing  it 
to protect all of us against Islamist terrorism, because 
what we are primarily fighting in Syria and in Iraq is 
terrorism. We are acting for all who perished in attacks 
in  recent  months,  because  jihadi  terrorism  has  struck 
our fellow citizens across all continents, regardless of 
religion. We must therefore protect ourselves by joining 
forces, and security must become our first priority. That 
is the focus of the initiatives that France has launched 
for  combating  terrorists’  use  of  the  Internet  and  all 
their  financing  sources.  That  is  why  I  hope  we  can 
organize  a  conference  in  2018  on  this  effort,  which  I 
urge everyone here to become involved in. It is also the 
focus of the military action that France has undertaken 
as part of the coalition in Syria and Iraq, in accordance 
with  international  law.  We  are  fighting  terrorism  not 
only  on  the  military  and  diplomatic  fronts  but  on  the 
educational,  cultural  and  moral  fronts,  too.  It  is  part 
of our efforts in Asia as well as in the Middle East and 
Africa. And it must bring all of us together.
To  achieve  just  and  lasting  peace,  we  must  focus 
urgently on a political settlement to the crisis by way 
of a transition, as the Security Council has called for 
through  its  unanimous  adoption  of  resolution  2254 
(2015). France and its partners have taken the initiative 
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  to 
design,  finally,  an  inclusive  political  road  map  for 
Syria. That is why I hope that we can establish a contact 
is  growing  up 
I  have  listened  to  Ousman,  a  schoolboy  in  Gao, 
and  I  would  like  to  bring  his  voice  in  here  today. 
Ousman 
in  Mali  under  constant 
threat  from  indiscriminate  attacks,  and  yet  his  only 
dream  is  to  be  able  to  go  to  school  without  risking 
his  life.  We  are  now  all  engaged  in  the  Sahel  —  the 
United  Nations,  the  countries  of  the  region  that  are 
participating  in  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional 
4/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali and the Force 
conjointe du G5 Sahel, and the European Union and its 
member States. And I would like to pay tribute to all 
stakeholders by acknowledging that it is an extremely 
difficult challenge with a high cost in human lives. Our 
challenge  there  is,  again,  eliminating  terrorism  and, 
in order to do that, building national capacities so that 
States  can  take  charge  of  their  security  themselves. 
Regardless of the resources we put there, our collective 
effort  will  not  succeed  if  the  countries  that  are  most 
affected are unable to take on their own responsibilities 
in that regard.
That  is  why  I  have  supported  the  deployment  of 
the Force conjointe du G5 Sahel since my first day in 
office, and I urge everyone here to mobilize collectively 
to  that  end,  too.  This  is  also  why  I  want  to  invest  in 
strengthening  our  support  to  African  peacekeeping 
missions,  because  that  is  the  future.  We  must  all 
give  new  thought  to  the  links  between  peacekeeping, 
regional organizations and host countries. Our capacity 
to  respond  to  our  peoples’  aspirations  for  peace 
depends on it. Certainly, a military response can never 
be the only response. Here I would like to emphasize 
the  importance  of  a  political  response,  and  in  that 
regard I have in mind the implementation of the Algiers 
Agreement  for  Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  Mali  and 
our development policy.
I have also listened to Kouamé, and I want to bring 
his voice in here today. Left on the roadside, he crossed 
Africa before putting his fate in the hands of smugglers 
in  Libya.  He  crossed  the  Mediterranean  and  came 
safely to port when so many others perished at sea. The 
refugee, the displaced person and the person to whom 
we give the sad name of migrant has truly become the 
symbol of our age, of a world where we will never be 
able to halt the march of despair if we cannot turn the 
roads of necessity into roads of liberty. Such migrations 
are  the  result  of  politics,  climate  change  or  ethnic 
conflict. They are always the roads taken by necessity. 
Today  necessity  is  a  flight  from  the  persecution  of 
which  the  Rohingya  —  more  than  400,000  refugees, 
most  of  them  children  —  are  victims.  The  military 
operations  there  must  cease,  access  to  humanitarian 
aid  must  be  provided  and  the  rule  of  law  must  be 
re-established because, as we know, what is going on is 
ethnic cleansing. France will take the initiative on this 
issue in the Security Council.
Necessity means leaving to save one’s family when 
war is raging and when international humanitarian law 
is no longer respected but becomes a tool to be exploited 
in the warring parties’ strategy of violence, as it is in 
Syria. It means exile when the defenders of freedom are 
the first to be targeted by the powers that be. Protecting 
refugees is a moral and political duty and one in which 
France  is  resolved  to  play  its  part,  by  supporting  the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
wherever  he  has  to  intervene;  by  opening  legal  paths 
to  resettlement  in  areas  closest  to  the  conflict  zones 
in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey as well as in the Niger 
and  Chad;  and  by  defending  the  right  to  asylum  and 
unequivocal respect for the Geneva Conventions.
In  Paris  on  28  August,  we  brought  together  the 
African  and  European  countries  that  have  been  most 
directly  affected  by  the  migration  flows  along  the 
central  Mediterranean  route.  We  adopted  a  road  map 
whose priority is combating the smugglers who traffic 
in  despair.  We  must  put  an  end  to  these  intolerable 
violations of fundamental human rights by working with 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  and  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  to  establish  a  humanitarian  infrastructure 
and by helping countries of origin and transit to better 
control migration flows.
But while short-term responses are a necessity for 
managing crises when we are dealing with terrorism and 
migration, what is at stake today is our ability to muster 
the  political  will  to  address  the  underlying  causes  of 
these  sources  of  instability.  Migration  and  terrorism 
represent the biggest political challenges that all of us 
may ever face. If we are to overcome such moral and 
civilizational challenges, it will be by pursuing a true 
policy of development, which is why I have decided that 
France should play its part by devoting 0.55 per cent of 
national revenue to public development aid for the next 
five years.
The President took the Chair.
I am grateful for the applause, but I have to temper 
it somewhat — first, because I know that some people 
were  expecting  more,  that  such  aid  is  never  enough, 
and  that  France’s  response  is  still  not  enough,  but 
mainly  because  it  is  not  money  that  is  the  real  issue; 
it is how effectively that money is used. It is what we 
spend the money on. It is about how we can be better 
at  evaluating  and  taking  responsibility  for  the  money 
that we all contribute. Of course, I want France to do 
its  part  with  development  aid,  but  what  I  really  want 
is for us to bring more innovation and intelligence to 
17-29122
5/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
our aid, using different methods and taking on greater 
responsibility on the ground. That is what I want. The 
challenge we have today is in ensuring that development 
aid actually reaches the areas where it is needed, simply 
and efficiently, calculated correctly and for the purpose 
it  was  designed  for.  That  was  what  we  wanted  to  do 
with the Alliance for the Sahel, for example, which we 
launched with the European Union, the World Bank and 
the United Nations Development Programme.
We  also  have  to  set  clear  priorities.  The  first  is 
investing in education, because it is education that will 
help us win the fight against the obscurantism that is 
bringing down entire countries and regions today, both 
in Africa and the Middle East. I urge the international 
community to step up in February 2018 in Dakar when 
we  re-establish  the  World  Partnership  for  Education, 
which France will co-chair with Senegal. This is a key 
struggle  for  us  all.  We  must  give  girls  and  boys  the 
opportunity to escape obscurantism and to choose their 
own  future,  not  the  future  imposed  upon  them  or  the 
one that we in this Hall would choose for them.
Our  second  priority  is  to  invest  in  health  and 
combat  major  pandemics  and  malnutrition,  because 
without  education  or  health  there  can  be  no  hope.  In 
this  fight  for  development,  we  must  also  support  the 
role  of  women,  culture  and  freedom  of  expression. 
Wherever the role of women is undermined, there, too, 
development  is  undermined,  as  is  a  society’s  ability 
to  assume  its  rightful  place  in  the  world.  These  are 
not  trivial  issues;  this  is  a  deep-seated  civilizational 
struggle.  It  is  our  struggle  and  these  are  our  values, 
which  are  not  relative  but  universal  on  all  continents 
and  at  all  latitudes.  Wherever  culture  is  undermined, 
there,  too,  our  collective  ability  to  rise  to  challenges 
is undermined.
That is why UNESCO is today such an important 
organization  and  has  such  a  key  role  to  play  with 
respect  to  ensuring  a  human  face  for  the  world  at  a 
time when widespread obscurantism seeks to eradicate 
its  unbelievable  diversity.  We  are  fighting  so  that  all 
cultures  and  languages  can  be  preserved  and  so  that 
progress can continue to be made.
Freedom  of  expression,  too,  is  a  most  urgent 
issue.  The  United  Nations  must  protect  the  freedom 
of those who think, reflect and express themselves, in 
particular the freedom of the press. For that reason, I 
call for the appointment of a Special Representative of 
the Secretary-General for the protection of journalists 
throughout the world; neither the fight against terrorism 
nor  the  more  demanding  world  we  are  living  in  can 
justify any inroads upon that freedom.
Finally,  I  wish  to  speak  on  behalf  of  my  fellow 
Frenchman Jules, who lives on the island of St. Martin. 
I am thinking of his house, which lies in ruins, and of 
his fear that this may happen again because of climate 
change,  which  is  leading  to  an  increasing  number  of 
disasters. The future of the world is that of our planet, 
which is now taking revenge for the folly of humankind. 
Nature is calling us to task to shoulder our responsibility 
of  humanity  and  solidarity.  It  will  not  negotiate  with 
us, and humankind must defend itself by protecting it. 
Extreme  weather  events  are  exploding  the  traditional 
differences between the North and the South. The most 
fragile are always the principal victims, swept up in a 
whirlwind of injustice. We are all affected by climatic 
changes, from China to the Caribbean, in Russia and in 
the Horn of Africa.
My  country  promised,  before  the  Assembly,  that 
we would achieve a universal agreement in Paris. That 
we did and signed it in this very Hall. That agreement 
is  not  up  for  renegotiation.  It  binds  us  and  rallies  us 
together. To take it apart would mean unraveling a pact 
not  just  between  States  but  also  between  generations. 
It can be improved; we can have new contributions and 
fresh input, but we will not backtrack.
I  fully  respect  the  decision  of  the  United  States. 
The door will always be open to it. However, we will 
continue our work, along with all Governments, local 
governments,  cities,  businesses,  non-governmental 
organizations  and  citizens  of  the  world.  We  have  the 
strength of pioneers, endurance and the certainty and 
energy of those who wish to build a better world. That 
better  world  will  lead  to  innovation  and  job  creation, 
despite the beliefs of those who see the future only in 
terms of the past.
We will build such a world right now by making our 
national contributions, as France has done by adopting 
its climate plan, which places us on the road to carbon 
neutrality.  On  12  December,  we  will  be  meeting  in 
Paris with those who wish to move forward with real 
solutions  by  mobilizing  public  and  private  funding. 
Here  I  confirm  that  France  will  play  its  full  role  in 
this respect by allocating €5 billion per year to climate 
action between now and 2020.
Our unfolding ambition is reflected in the fact that 
this very afternoon we will be introducing a global pact 
6/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
for the environment aimed at shaping international law 
for the coming century, with the support of the United 
Nations agencies.
At  a  time  when  some  would  wish  us  to  stop,  we 
must  continue  to  advance,  because  climate  change 
and extreme weather events will not stop. Our duty of 
solidarity and humanity will continue.
Behind  every  one  of  our  decisions  are  the  voices 
and lives of the invisible masses whom we must defend, 
because we in turn were defended in the past. Why do 
we  not  heed  those  voices?  Why  are  we  not  focusing 
on what 70 years ago gave humankind the strength to 
believe in itself: planetary responsibility, the desire for 
mutual assistance and faith in progress?
When I speak of Bana, Ousman, Kouamé and Jules, 
I  speak  about  all  my  compatriots  and  everyone  else’s 
compatriots, because our security is their security. We 
are  inextricably  linked  in  a  community  of  fate,  today 
and tomorrow. Global balances have changed radically 
in  recent  years  and  the  world  has  become  multipolar 
once again, so we must learn anew the complexity of 
dialogue as well as the riches it can bring to us.
Our collective action is coming up against obstacles 
stemming  from  State  instability.  In  Libya,  six  years 
after  the  military  intervention  there,  I  acknowledge, 
before the Assembly, France’s particular responsibility 
to  ensure  that  the  country  regains  its  stability.  The 
meeting  held  in  La  Celle-Saint-Cloud  on  25  July 
enabled  us  to  make  progress  on  the  reconciliation 
necessary for the success of the political process under 
the auspices of the United Nations. Together with the 
Secretary-General  and  his  Special  Representative,  we 
must succeed in 2018 in organizing elections that will 
mark the restoration of effective State authority. I will 
do my utmost to achieve that.
Concerning  Venezuela,  collective  action  must 
enable  the  upholding  of  democracy  and  respect  for 
all  political  movements.  We  must  give  no  ground  to 
the  dictatorial  trends  that  we  see  today.  In  Ukraine, 
too,  we  must  tirelessly  work  to  ensure  the  upholding 
of  the  commitments  undertaken,  bring  about  an 
effective ceasefire and work together with our partners, 
particularly Germany, to ensure that the parties to the 
conflict respect international law and end the conflict.
Multilateralism  is  facing  the  challenge  of  nuclear 
proliferation, unable to ward off threats that we believed 
to be past but that have re-emerged today. Pyongyang 
has  crossed  a  major  threshold  in  terms  of  military 
escalation.  This  is  an  urgent,  collective  existential 
threat. North Korea has not to date given any sign of 
wishing to negotiate. Its authorities are determined to 
raise the stakes. Our responsibility, together with all of 
our partners, including  China and Russia, is, through 
resolve, to bring North Korea to the negotiating table 
for a political settlement to this conflict. France rejects 
escalation  and  will  not  close  any  door  to  dialogue, 
provided that the conditions are met for such a dialogue 
to promote peace.
It  is  that  same  goal  that  impels  me  to  defend  the 
nuclear  agreement  with  Iran.  Our  commitment  to 
nuclear  non-proliferation  enabled  us  to  reach  a  solid, 
robust  and  verifiable  agreement  on  14  July  2015  and 
to ensure that Iran will not be able to acquire nuclear 
weapons.  To  denounce  that  now  without  proposing 
anything in its place would be a serious mistake, and 
failing to uphold it would be irresponsible, because it 
is a helpful agreement that is vital to keeping the peace 
at a time when the risk of a collapse into a death spiral 
is  genuine.  That  is  what  I  told  the  United  States  and 
Iran yesterday. For my part, I hope that we will be able 
to  fulfil  the  agreement,  by  working  to  contain  Iran’s 
ballistic activity and manage the situation after 2020, 
which  the  2015  agreement  does  not  cover.  Let  us  by 
all  means  be  more  demanding,  but  certainly  not  by 
unwinding  the  results  that  previous  agreements  have 
already  achieved.  Look  at  the  mess  we  are  in  today. 
Has  the  lack  of  dialogue  done  anything  to  contain 
the  situation  in  North  Korea  for  even  a  moment? 
What  I  want  for  all  of  us  is  a  world  where  dialogue, 
controls and multilateralism provide us with effective, 
useful weapons.
I do not know whether, 70 years from now, a future 
successor of mine will have the privilege of addressing 
the  Assembly.  Will  multilateralism  survive  the  time 
of  doubt  and  change  that  we  are  going  through?  The 
fact  is  that  we  should  be  remembering  the  state  that 
the  world  was  in  70  years  ago,  shattered  by  war  and 
stunned by genocides. Right now we need to rediscover 
the optimism, ambition and courage with which we met 
those reasons to doubt and the faith in what unites us. 
We  must  restore  our  trust  in  the  universal  founding 
principles of the United Nations, which protect all of us 
and guarantee our dignity, all over the world.
But why have we ended up where we are? Because we 
have allowed the idea to take root that multilateralism is 
a kind of convenient game for diplomats around a table, 
17-29122
7/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
a tool of the weak. That has gone on for years, because 
we let ourselves believe that our efforts were stronger 
and  more  convincing  when  we  acted  unilaterally.  But 
it  is  not  true.  Because,  sometimes  out  of  cynicism, 
we  let  ourselves  believe  that  multilateralism  could 
not  fix  everything,  and  so  we  let  deregulation  of  the 
world take over. We have been slow to address climate 
change  and  the  new  inequalities  that  unregulated 
capitalism  creates.  We  have  let  the  voices  of  discord 
shout the loudest. And in that game, the loudest voices 
win.  Time  and  fading  memory  have  made  us  forget 
the  history  that  moulded  us  and  allowed  the  belief  to 
take root that we are stronger without multilateralism. 
The challenge that our generation faces today is to be 
able to get our faith back and to show that in today’s 
world, nothing is more effective than multilateralism. 
And  why?  Because  every  one  of  our  challenges  is 
global — terrorism, immigration, climate change, the 
regulation  of  the  digital  world.  They  all  have  to  be 
addressed multilaterally and on a global scale.
it 
is  only 
Every  time  we  turn  away  from  multilateralism, 
the 
loudest  voice  wins.  But 
through 
multilateralism  that  we  can  achieve  our  vision  of  the 
world,  because  it  is  universal,  not  regional.  Every 
time  we  give  up  on  an  idea  —  for  example,  that  the 
situation  of  women  concerns  some  people  in  parts  of 
the world but not others, or that equality is an issue for 
one civilization but not others — we are abandoning the 
universality of the values that have brought us together 
in this Organization. In some countries we have already 
ceded the race to the strong. And that is because, every 
time,  the  great  Powers,  seated  around  the  Security 
Council table, have ceded the race to the strong and to 
unilateralism, and have failed to live up to agreements 
they signed themselves. They have failed to uphold the 
glue  that  keeps  multilateralism  together  —  the  rule 
of law. That is what has got us this far and can build 
sustainable peace.
Today we need multilateralism more than ever, not 
because  it  is  a  comforting  notion,  and  not  because  it 
is  somewhere  for  thinking  people  to  take  shelter,  but 
because  it  is  about  the  rule  of  law,  about  interaction 
between  peoples  and  about  equality  for  us  all.  It  is 
what  will  enable  us  to  achieve  peace  and  overcome 
our  challenges.  And  the  United  Nations  is  indeed 
the  Organization  that  can  act  in  full  legitimacy  to 
preserve global equilibrium. That is why I want a more 
responsible,  effective  and  agile  United  Nations,  and 
why  I  fully  support  the  Secretary-General’s  plans  for 
the  Organization  and  his  ambition  and  commitment 
to making it equal to the challenges facing our world. 
We  need  to  get  out  of  our  offices  and  away  from 
meetings with States and Governments and to seek new 
resources,  so  that  we  can  see  the  world  as  it  really  is 
and reconsider some of the dogmas to which we have 
sometimes  clung.  We  need  a  Security  Council  that 
can  make  effective  decisions,  without  walling  itself 
off  through  its  right  to  the  veto  when  mass  atrocities 
are  being  committed.  We  need  better  representation 
for everyone here and for every continent. We need to 
coordinate crisis management better with the European 
Union,  the  African  Union  and  the  key  subregional 
organizations. That is why France will stand beside the 
United Nations as it implements reform.
In conclusion, I would like to say that it is only in 
a stronghold such as this that the forgotten voices that 
I wanted to bring here today can be heard, a stronghold 
where there is a place for everyone and where everyone 
can  be  heard  even  by  those  who  do  not  wish  to  hear. 
To them I say that a refusal to listen to the oppressed, 
to  victims,  allows  their  miseries  to  grow  and  prosper 
until the day when they overwhelm all the rest of us as 
well.  A  refusal  to  listen  means  forgetting  that  at  one 
time or another in our history, we were the oppressed, 
and  others  heard  our  voices.  It  means  forgetting  that 
our safety and security is theirs too, that their lives are 
connected to ours, and we cannot remain unscathed in 
a world that is going up in flames. A refusal to listen to 
those who call for help means believing that walls and 
borders will protect us. 
But  it  is  not  walls  that  protect  us,  it  is  our 
willingness to act and to change the course of history 
and our refusal to allow history to be written without 
us even as we imagine we are safe. It is our sovereignty 
and our sovereign use of force in the service of progress 
that  protects  us.  A  nation’s  independence  lies  in  its 
interdependence.  A  refusal  to  listen  to  those  voices 
would  mean  believing  that  their  despair  is  not  ours, 
that  we  will  always  enjoy  benefits  that  they  can  only 
dream  of.  But  what  if  those  benefits  are  our  whole 
planet — what if they are peace, justice and freedom? 
Do  we  believe  that  we  are  the  only  ones  who  should 
enjoy them, tucked away in some corner? If we do not 
defend  those  shared  benefits,  we  will  all  be  doomed. 
We will be watching fires burn that history will blow 
back on our own children tomorrow.
Today,  more  than  ever,  those  shared  benefits, 
our  common  goods,  represent  our  shared  interests. 
8/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
Our  security  is  their  security,  and  there  are  no  sides, 
no  division  between  those  who  believe  in  the  rule 
of  law  and  multilateralism  and  those  who  believe 
in  a  pragmatic  unilateralism.  That  is  a  false  notion. 
Our  real  effectiveness  is  playing  out  in  this  struggle 
right  here.  That  is  why  I  want  to  join  with  everyone 
here  today,  united  in  a  belief  in  a  strong,  responsible 
multilateralism. That is our generation’s responsibility, 
if  we  do  not  want  to  abandon  ourselves  to  fatalism. 
There is only one kind of courage we need, which is to 
listen to those voices and not to deviate from the mark 
we  wish  to  leave  on  history.  We  must  be  constantly 
aware  that  we  must  work  to  reconcile  our  interests 
and  our  values.  Our  security  is  the  common  good  of 
our planet. Our generation has no choice. It must speak 
for today and for tomorrow.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the French Republic for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Emmanuel  Macron,  President  of  the  French 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, 
President of the Republic of Colombia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón, President of the Republic of Colombia.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Colombia,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
This is the eighth and last time I address the General 
Assembly  in  my  capacity  as  President  of  Colombia. 
A  lot  has  happened  since  24  September  2010,  when 
I  made  my  first  speech  (see  A/65/PV.15).  Colombia 
has  been  transformed  positively,  and  the  world  has 
experienced  progress  and  setbacks,  of  which  we  have 
all been witnesses, victims or protagonists.
Here is a paradox: I did my first televised address to 
Colombians as their leader from New York in September 
2010,  one  day  before  addressing  the  Assembly.  What 
was  the  reason  for  that  intervention?  I  announced  to 
Colombia and to the international community that our 
armed forces had taken down the head of the guerrillas 
of the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia 
(FARC). Today, seven years later, I feel very happy that 
the news I bring from Colombia does not have to do with 
death, but with life. Today I come to tell the Assembly 
that the peace process with the FARC culminated not 
only  in  an  agreement,  but  with  something  bigger  and 
more  important:  thousands  and  thousands  of  human 
lives saved.
Therefore,  the  news  today  is  not  about  death.  It 
is  about  life,  and  we  want  that  to  be  the  news  in  the 
whole  world.  If  in  Colombia  we  were  able  to  end  an 
armed  conflict  that  left  hundreds  of  thousands  dead 
and  millions  as  victims  and  displaced  persons,  there 
is  hope  for  the  conflicts  that  still  exist  in  the  world. 
It was not easy. Ending a war, overcoming hatred and 
vanquishing fears involve a complex process of dialogue 
and  compromise.  However,  we  did  it  because  we  had 
the will and because we were aware of a fundamental 
premise:  peace  is  a  necessary  condition  for  progress 
and the happiness of any society.
I  want  to  acknowledge  and  thank  the  United 
Nations,  because  it  has  fully  fulfilled  the  mission 
for  which  it  was  created,  which  is  none  other  than  to 
end the scourge of war. On behalf of some 50 million 
Colombians, I want to thank the Secretary-General, the 
Security Council and the Assembly.
A  special  mission  set  up  by  the  Security  Council 
was  in  charge  of  verifying  and  monitoring  the  FARC 
disarmament  process  and  its  compliance  with  the 
ceasefire and the cessation of hostilities between that 
group  and  the  Colombian  State.  Today  we  can  say, 
with  immense  satisfaction,  that  its  mission  has  been  
fulfilled.  The  ceasefire  and  cessation  of  hostilities 
were respected, and the FARC delivered to the United 
Nations more than 9,000 weapons that were stored in 
containers.  Those  weapons  are  being  destroyed.  The 
members  of  that  former  guerrilla  group  —  without 
detriment to their responsibilities with regard to justice 
and  to  the  victims  —  have  now  formed  a  political 
movement  to  defend  their  ideas  and  proposals  in  the 
forums of democracy.
That is what a peace process is all about: replacing 
violence with reasoning, exchanging bullets for votes. 
Never again will arms be used as a means of political 
pressure.  Now  we  are  faced  with  the  challenge  of 
17-29122
9/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
implementing what has been agreed and guaranteeing 
victims’  rights 
justice,  reparations  and 
non-repetition.
truth, 
to 
Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), Vice-President, took the Chair.
In  that  regard,  we  can  once  again  count  on  the 
friendly hand of the United Nations. In a few days, a 
second  mission,  authorized  last  week  by  the  Security 
Council,  will  begin  operations  in  our  country.  It  will 
accompany the reintegration of guerrillas into civilian 
life and will help us to verify the safety of ex-combatants 
and the communities that have suffered from the armed 
conflict.  And  something  very  important:  the  United 
Nations will also verify compliance with the ceasefire 
and  the  temporary  cessation  of  hostilities,  which 
will  begin  1  October,  by  the  Ejército  de  Liberación 
Nacional, the other guerrilla group with which we are 
in negotiations to achieve a complete peace.
Building  peace  is  a  long  process  with  political, 
economic and social dimensions. It is a process in which, 
fortunately, we have already had positive results. With 
innovative  programmes  in  education,  health,  housing 
and infrastructure, we are beginning to close the deep 
social gaps of our society.
The Economic Commission for Latin America has 
highlighted  Colombia’s  progress  in  reducing  poverty 
and  indigence.  In  seven  years,  more  than  5  million 
Colombians  overcame  poverty  —  that  is  more  than  a 
tenth of our population. We have turned health into a 
fundamental right, and education has been our highest 
budgetary priority for the past four years, above security 
and defence. International organizations also highlight 
the soundness of our economic and social indicators in 
the face of fluctuations in the global economy.
This  is  indeed  a  special  moment  for  Colombia, 
and a special moment for the United Nations, which is 
successfully fulfilling, in our country, its main objective.
But this time of hope in Colombia does not prevent 
us  from  viewing  with  concern  the  difficult  situations 
for peace and democracy in other parts of the planet. 
We  emphatically  deplore  and  condemn  the  ballistic-
missile launches and the nuclear tests of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. Those actions are a threat 
to international peace and security.
We  are  very  concerned  about  the  precarious 
situation  in  our  sister  and  neighbour  Republic  of 
Venezuela,  with  which  we  share  an  immense  border, 
a common history and human ties that do not allow us 
to be indifferent to its fate. Venezuela pains us. We are 
pained at the gradual destruction of its democracy. We 
are pained at the persecution of the political opposition 
and the systematic violation of the rights of Venezuelans. 
Today  I  repeat  my  call  on  the  Secretary-General  and 
the  entire  international  community  to  support  the 
Venezuelan people in the search for a peaceful solution 
that will return them to the path of progress, democracy 
and freedom.
We are also pained at the terrorist attacks carried 
out by intolerant fanatics, sowing fear and pain, and we 
condemn them. On that topic I would like to speak in 
two capacities: as President of the only country where 
instead of increasing weaponry we melt them to build 
monuments to harmony, and as the most recent Nobel 
Peace Prize recipient.
Beyond  the  differences  of  race,  religion  and 
thought, human beings are actually one. What happens 
to  one  happens  to  us  all.  We  have  to  understand  that 
beyond divisions, beyond borders, our people is called 
the  world.  Our  race  is  called  humankind.  We  must 
understand this truth if we are to respect one another 
and respect life.
We must fight terrorism forcefully — with military 
and  police  power,  with  intelligence  and  international 
cooperation.  But  we  must  also  eradicate  its  roots, 
which are fear, exclusion and hatred, with the positive 
forces of love, compassion and respect for differences. 
In Colombia we are proving that it is possible; war can 
be  overcome.  Ancient  enemies  can  speak  and  work 
together  for  a  greater  cause.  If  we  are  succeeding  in 
Colombia, it can be done all over the world.
I cannot conclude without addressing an issue that I 
have highlighted before at this rostrum: the world drug 
problem. I have said many times that the war on drugs 
has not been won and is not being won, that we need 
new approaches and new strategies.
At the General Assembly’s thirtieth special session, 
on  the  world  drug  problem  —  which  met  last  year  at 
the initiative of Colombia — there was progress, such 
as  the  call  for  States  to  protect  human  rights  in  their 
drug policies. But we still have a great deal to do. We 
must  reach  consensus  on  central  issues,  such  as  not 
criminalizing addicts and understanding drug use as a 
matter of public health and not criminal policy.
The  war  on  drugs  has  claimed  too  many  lives. 
We in Colombia have paid a very high price, perhaps 
10/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
the  highest  of  any  nation,  and  what  we  are  seeing  is 
that  the  remedy  is  often  worse  than  the  disease.  Let 
us  undertake  a  serious  and  rigorous  follow-up  of  the 
regulatory experiences that have been implemented in 
different places and learn from both their successes and 
their difficulties.
It  is  time  to  accept  realistically  that  as  long  as 
there  is  consumption  there  will  be  supply,  and  that 
consumption will not end. It is not a simplistic matter of 
pointing out who is solely responsible. We all are, under 
the principle of the common and shared responsibility 
that we assumed several decades ago. It is time to talk 
about responsible regulation by States, to seek ways to 
weaken  the  mafias  and  to  confront  consumption  with 
more  resources  for  prevention,  care  and  reduction  of 
damage to health and to the social fabric. Colombia will 
continue to fight this scourge decisively. For us it has 
been and continues to be a matter of national security.
Peace  has  allowed  us  for  the  first  time  to  initiate 
the  process  of  voluntary  substitution  of  coca  crops. 
Those processes, along with the forced eradication we 
are promoting and the seizures, which have increased 
to unprecedented levels, will allow us to achieve results 
that  are  even  more  conclusive  and  long-term.  But  we 
must advance in this struggle with a more open mind. 
We have to be smarter and more innovative.
We can say much the same about climate change. 
Colombia, the most biodiverse country in the world for its 
size, is also one of the most vulnerable to climate change. 
That is why we have been proactive on this matter. At 
the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development we 
pushed for the adoption of the Sustainable Development 
Goals, which the Assembly approved in 2015. Today we 
are  pleased  to  see  that  those  Goals  are  the  backbone 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
promoted by the United Nations.
We also enthusiastically support the Paris Climate 
Agreement, whose goals are a national commitment and 
should  be  for  all  if  we  want  to  preserve  our  common 
home  —  the  Earth.  Humankind  cannot  close  its  eyes 
in the face of the most pressing challenge of our times.
In  this,  my  last  statement  before  the  General 
Assembly,  I  want  to  offer  the  world  —  with  humility 
and  much  gratitude  —  the  example  and  model  of 
peace that we are beginning to build in Colombia. And 
I  want  to  reiterate  our  gratitude  for  the  international 
community’s generous support.
With  the  strength  of  love  we  can  overcome  fear. 
With the strength of life we can overcome the tyranny 
of violence and death. With the strength of unity we can 
make the world a decent place to live.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Colombia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Emomali Rahmon, President of the 
Republic of Tajikistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Tajikistan.
Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Rahmon  (spoke  in  Tajik;  English  text 
provided by the delegation): I wish to join my colleagues, 
Heads  of  State  and  Government,  in  congratulating 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election  as  the  President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session, 
and to wish him every success in his noble duties. I also 
express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Peter Thomson 
for  his  continued  support  of  Tajikistan’s  national  and 
international commitments during his term as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session.
Unprecedented  rapid  globalization  over  the  past 
decades has contributed to the development of political 
and  economic  relationships  among  countries  and 
helped bolster the integration of various regions across 
the world. It has also brought massive challenges to the 
world’s  people  and  sometimes  undermines  the  efforts 
of Member States to ensure a safe, fair and secure life 
for their people. In this context, the United Nations, as 
a universal institution, should continue to carry out its 
noble  mission  of  coordinating  the  efforts  of  Member 
States to strengthen countries’ resilience in responding 
to modern threats and challenges.
17-29122
11/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
It is impossible to address the new challenges facing 
the  international  community  without  strengthening 
and  reforming 
the  entire  United  Nation  system. 
Comprehensive  and  inclusive  reform  of  the  United 
Nations must contribute to increasing and strengthening 
its capacity to respond to developments around the world 
in a timely manner and to deal with today’s threats and 
risks.  United  Nations  reform  should  be  implemented 
in accordance with the principles and purposes of the 
Charter of the United Nations. We support the inclusive 
and equal representation of the interests of developing 
countries in the Security Council reform process.
We are witnessing today many tragic and horrific 
events taking place across the globe that undermine the 
international  community’s  commitment  to  attaining 
comprehensive  sustainable  development.  The  spread 
of terrorism and extremism, religious armed conflicts, 
transnational  organized  crime  and  drug  trafficking 
pose serious challenges to the security of our countries.
As terrorist and extremist groups and movements 
flourish  in  many  hot  spots  throughout  the  world, 
threatening people’s security by using certain corners 
of the world as safe havens, I wish to reiterate that the 
horror  and  brutal  acts  of  these  forces  have  absolutely 
no connection with the holy religion of Islam. On the 
contrary, they run counter to the moral teachings and 
do not reflect the tolerance and values of Islam. In order 
to confront these threats, all Member States must make 
every effort, in accordance with international law, and 
avoid double standards.
The  Government  of  Tajikistan  continues  to  take 
concrete steps to address threats and challenges and to 
ensure lasting peace and overall stability in the country, 
in  cooperation  with  its  partners  and  international 
organizations, in particular the relevant United Nations 
agencies.  The  implementation  of  the  second  phase  of 
our  National  Strategy  on  Countering  Extremism  and 
Terrorism  2016-2020  is  one  effective  instrument  we 
use  to  fulfil  our  commitments.  I  should  emphasize 
that  these  efforts  are  aimed  at  supporting  the  United 
Nations central coordinating role in assisting countries 
in post-conflict rehabilitation processes.
The  success  of  our  joint  actions  to  prevent  and 
resolve  conflict  and  to  seek  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes  will  depend  first  and  foremost  on  how 
effectively we use preventive diplomacy and mediation. 
Peace  and  stability  can  ensure  sustainable,  inclusive 
cooperation  aimed  at  resolving  the  conflict  in  North 
Korea.  Peace  and  stability  can  ensure  sustainable 
social and economic development and a more peaceful 
life,  and  create  conditions  conducive  to  a  strong  civil 
society and to respect for and the protection of human 
rights  in  all  countries,  facilitating  the  prosperity  of 
Member States.
We  Tajiks  are  well  aware  of  the  importance  of 
peace and the need to defend it, since our people have 
experienced  many  hardships  and  suffered  through 
a  civil  war  in  the  early  days  of  its  independence.  As 
a  result  of  the  domestic  conflict  imposed  upon  them, 
thousands of our nationals lost their lives. Only through 
peace  and  stability  have  we  been  able  to  achieve 
sustainable economic development, reduce poverty and 
improve our people’s well-being, promote cooperation 
with  different  countries  and  goodwill  among  nations 
throughout the world, and take the measures necessary 
to ensure regional integration.
We  cannot  afford  to  remain  silent  in  the  face  of 
the  military,  political,  social  and  economic  situation 
in  neighbouring  Afghanistan.  The  rapidly  growing 
activity  of  violent  terrorist  groups  in  the  country  has 
become a source of serious concern for us. Given the 
current situation in that country, it is high time to take 
strong measures to coordinate counter-terrorism efforts 
and tackle drug production and trafficking in narcotics.
Tajikistan  supports  Afghanistan’s  comprehensive 
conflict  resolution  strategy.  The  Government  and  the 
people of Afghanistan need timely support and targeted 
assistance,  especially  during  the  current  transition 
period.  Tajikistan’s  involvement  in  the  process  of 
regional  integration  through  enhanced  economic  and 
trade relations with that country could be an important 
element in helping the country move forward towards 
peace  and  stability.  We  call  on  the  international 
community  to  stand  with  and  contribute  to  helping 
Afghanistan  restore  its  ailing  social  and  economic 
life  and  to  develop  its  transport  and  communication 
infrastructure.
Tajikistan,  which  has  1,400  kilometres  of  border 
with  Afghanistan,  stands  ready  and  committed  to 
contribute to these noble objectives. Transport and road 
links  between  our  countries  and  the  implementation 
of the power-transmission lines projects, including the 
Central Asia South Asia Electricity Transmission and 
Trade Project (CASA-1000), as well as the training and 
professional development of experts in different areas, 
12/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
are  among  the  projects  that  we  are  carrying  out  with 
that country.
Fighting drug trafficking, which is one of the main 
sources  of  funding  of  international  terrorism,  calls 
for the joint effort and strong will of the international 
community  to  help  the  country  get  rid  of  this  evil. 
Tajikistan has established cooperation with the relevant 
United  Nations  agencies,  regional  organizations  and 
partner countries at the bilateral level. We are currently 
successfully  implementing  our  National  Strategy  on 
Combating Illicit Drugs 2013-2020.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  by  the  international  community  was  a 
key milestone in our joint work to advance sustainable 
development  and  involve  all  sectors  of  society  in 
the  process.  Over  the  past  few  years,  Tajikistan  has 
made  great  strides  towards  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  The  Government  of 
my country, in close and effective cooperation with the 
relevant  United  Nations  agencies,  has  developed  and 
adopted the Mid-Term Development Strategy 2020 and 
the  National  Development  Strategy  2016-2030.  These 
strategies  have  been  developed  in  line  with  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  and  we  believe 
that  their  timely  and  effective  implementation  will 
contribute to achieving the Agenda.
Tajikistan  was  among  43  countries  that  presented 
their  voluntary  national  review  in  July  at  the  High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development,  in 
New  York.  To  achieve  the  successful  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda,  it  is  necessary  to  help  the  least 
developed 
countries, 
particularly  by  providing 
financial  support  and 
cutting-edge  technologies,  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
and  developing 
countries 
to  achieving 
It is worth mentioning that the geographical situation 
of  landlocked  developing  countries  and  their  lack  of 
access to sea ports are serious obstacles to honouring 
their  commitment 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. Countries in these circumstances 
need  much  more  assistance  from  developed  countries 
and international financial institutions in their efforts 
to  develop  infrastructure,  improve  transport  systems 
and  simplify  trade  policies  and  regional  integration. 
The specialized institutions and agencies of the United 
Nations, particularly the Economic and Social Council, 
can and should have an important role in this regard.
We, 
We  believe  that  the  more  attention  we  give  to 
economic, social and environmental issues, the better 
we can contribute to the successful implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda. That would also help countries to cope 
with their social challenges and improve the livelihood 
and living standards of their people by providing jobs.
international 
community,  adopted  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  two  years  ago.  The  goals  enshrined  in  that 
critical document determine the major obligations and 
efforts  of  the  international  community  in  reducing 
carbon dioxode emissions in the atmosphere, adaptation 
to  climate  change  and  transitioning  to  a  low-carbon 
economy.
representatives  of 
the 
the 
Climate change accelerates the melting of glaciers, 
which affects the rise of the water level in rivers and 
negatively  affects  certain  sectors  of  the  national 
economy. With 93 per cent of its territory surrounded 
by  mountains,  Tajikistan,  owing  to  its  geographical 
location, faces the devastating consequences of climate 
change  and  natural  disasters.  Every  year,  the  country 
suffers from natural disasters, including those related 
to  water.  Tajikistan  spends  hundreds  of  millions  of 
dollars  to  tackle  and  eliminate  the  consequences  of 
natural disasters.
Over the past 30 years, Tajikistan has lost more than 
1,000 of its 13,000 glaciers due to melting as a result of 
climate change and temperature rise. This comes at a 
time when the industrial capability of Tajikistan, which 
is  the  main  source  of  its  carbon  dioxide  emissions, 
is  not  especially  large.  Ninety-eight  per  cent  of  the 
country’s  energy  is  produced  by  hydroelectric  power 
stations,  generating  environmentally  friendly  energy. 
Over 60 per cent of Central Asian water resources are 
currently  formed  in  Tajikistan.  It  is  obvious  that  the 
accelerated melting of glaciers adversely affects water 
levels in the region.
In  this  regard,  the  time  has  come  for  us  to  turn 
our words into actions and demonstrate our resolve to 
implement the goals of the Paris Agreement. In our view, 
one way to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement is 
to adhere to the green economy recommmendations and 
promote  the  comprehensive  use  of  renewable  energy 
sources. In this context, we express our full support of 
the international Sustainable Energy for All initiative 
and the United Nations Decade of Sustainable Energy 
for All 2014-2024. It is important for the international 
17-29122
13/28
A/72/PV.4 
community 
these goals.
to  make  vigorous  efforts 
to  achieve 
Tajikistan  is  strongly  committed  to  maintaining 
its  contribution  to  implementing  the  water-related 
goals  of  the  2030  Agenda.  It  is  with  great  pleasure 
that  I  note  that,  in  December  2016,  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  by  consensus  resolution  71/222, 
entitled  “International  Decade  for  Action,  ‘Water  for 
Sustainable Development’, 2018-2028”. We believe that 
the implementation of the new Decade at the national, 
regional and international levels will contribute to the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
related  to  water  and  help  to  preserve  that  invaluable 
resource for generations to come.
Implementation  of 
This  morning  we  conducted  a  high-level  side 
event  entitled  “Towards 
the 
International Decade of Action, ‘Water for Sustainable 
Development’,  2018-2028”,  at  which  participants 
exchanged  views  on  ways  and  means  to  implement 
the  new 
international  Decade  and  Sustainable 
Development Goal 6. Furthermore, in order to review 
and  deliberate  on  proposals  by  development  partners 
and with a view to adopting a road map for the Decade, 
we  intend  to  organize,  on  22  March  2018,  World 
Water  Day,  a  special  event  in  New  York  to  celebrate 
the  launch  of  the  international  Decade  and  to  host 
a  high-level  international  conference  on  water  for 
sustainable  development  in  Dushanbe  next  June.  We 
strongly believe that the States Members of the United 
Nations, 
international  and  regional  organizations, 
international financial institutions, civil society, think-
tank associations, women and youth will stand together 
and work to achieve the Decade’s goals and objectives 
for the sake of the lives of people around the globe and 
to ensure a better future for coming generations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Tajikistan for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Tajikistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Edgar Chagwa Lungu, President of 
the Republic of Zambia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Zambia.
19/09/2017
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu, 
President of the Republic of Zambia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Lungu:  Let  me  join  previous  speakers 
in congratulating His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák 
on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session. I also wish to 
extend Zambia’s sincere appreciation to His Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson for his able leadership during the 
seventy-first session.
May  I  also  convey  my  sincere  gratitude  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres  and  congratulate 
him  on  his  appointment  as  the  ninth  Secretary-
General. I am confident that the Secretary-General will 
build  upon  the  strong  foundation  that  was  laid  by  his 
predecessor, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, to whom I wish to pay 
glowing tribute for the manner in which he steered the 
Organization during his tenure of office.
The  theme  for  this  session,  “Focusing  on  people: 
Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a 
sustainable planet”, provides us with an opportunity to 
evaluate the existing multilateral approaches to address 
the  challenges  affecting  our  peoples.  They  include 
threats to socioeconomic development and international 
peace  and  security.  There  is  a  need,  therefore,  to 
develop  innovative  approaches  and  responses  to  the 
challenges,  which  include  terrorism,  climate  change, 
nuclear weapons and HIV/AIDS, among many others. 
In  today’s  globalized  and  interdependent  world,  no 
country, however wealthy or powerful, can resolve all 
those  challenges  single-handedly.  Common  solutions 
are therefore required through a strong United Nations.
This year’s session is taking place against a backdrop 
of  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change,  which  have 
spared  no  one  nation,  developed  or  underdeveloped. 
Our  efforts  to  raise  the  standard  of  living  for  the 
world’s  poor  people  in  order  to  meet  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals are being frustrated by the effects 
of climate change. We have witnessed the devastating 
effects of climate change on our environment. Recently, 
there  have  been  many  hurricanes  in  the  Caribbean.  I 
remember  a  time  when  forests  were  within  a  child’s 
walking  distance,  in  particular  in  Africa,  and  were 
14/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
teeming  with  a  profusion  of  flora  and  fauna.  That  is 
no longer the case. Unfortunately, a myriad of species 
of flora and fauna have become extinct in a very short 
time. We have also continued to witness disasters such 
as droughts, wildfires, flooding and landslides; if not 
extreme levels of rain, it is the lack of it.
As  the  twenty-third  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change draws near, Zambia is expectant that 
the  Conference  will,  among  other  things,  establish 
mechanisms  for  the  implementation  of  the  Paris 
Agreement on climate change. Furthermore, we call on 
all stakeholders to ensure that the Green Climate Fund is 
adequately funded in order to help deliver the necessary 
interventions globally. As a developing country, Zambia 
needs assistance to enhance its capacity in key adaptive 
areas,  such  as  scientific  research,  early  warning  and 
rapid response in order to address the adverse effects of 
climate change. Accordingly, Zambia also calls for the 
transfer of appropriate technologies to help cope with 
the negative impact of climate change. 
Over  the  past  year,  Zambia  has  made  significant 
developmental  efforts  and  is  determined  to  foster  an 
all-inclusive  development  paradigm,  based  on  the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063 and the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. Only a few months ago, on 
21 June, I had the honour to launch the seventh National 
Development  Plan,  which  is  Zambia’s  development 
blueprint  for  the  five-year  period  from  2017  to  2021. 
Its theme is “Accelerating development efforts towards 
the  attainment  of  the  National  Vision  2030,  without 
leaving  anyone  behind”.  The  plan  seeks  to  improve 
productivity in agriculture, create job opportunities in 
other  sectors,  such  as  manufacturing,  and  particular 
attention will be given to lifting standards of living in 
rural areas, where a new focus on agro-value addition 
is being implemented. Through that plan, Zambia aims 
to reduce poverty to minimal levels.
In  keeping  with  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda 
on  financing  for  development,  my  Government  is 
determined to ensure the effective mobilization and use 
of all sources of finance, whether mobilized locally or 
through our international cooperation partners, for the 
benefit of the average person in Zambia — as long as it 
is not illicit financing.
Government  has  continued  to  work  in  solidarity  with 
nations  that  are  undertaking  the  necessary  actions  to 
enhance  their  democracies.  Through  its  membership 
in  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security  Council, 
Zambia has also continued to provide support for those 
still  afflicted  by  conflict.  My  Government  also  looks 
forward to serving the Troika of the Organ on Politics, 
Defence  and  Security  Cooperation  of  the  Southern 
African Development Community from 2017 to 2020, 
following  our  recent  election  to  the  Organ.  I  would 
like to assure the Assembly that my Government will 
use its membership in these two bodies to foster peace 
globally, especially in Africa.
We  wish  to  recognize  the  vision  and  experience 
of  the  various  regional  and  international  bodies  that 
complement the United Nations agenda. As a member 
State, we note the role of the Commonwealth of Nations 
in various subjects such as gender and youth matters, 
climate change, the promotion of democracy, the rule of 
law, human rights, good governance and socioeconomic 
development.  In  my  country,  the  Commonwealth 
Secretariat  has  played  an  important  role  in  providing 
technical support during and after the previously held 
elections, and this we cannot ignore.
Zambia  has  also  continued  to  serve  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  with  a  sense  of 
duty  to  those  persons  who  have  found  their  security 
under  threat  for  various  reasons.  In  this  regard,  the 
United Nations should not shirk its noble duty to these 
vulnerable  persons;  it  should  redouble  its  efforts  to 
bring about a more peaceful world.
The  United  Nations  commitment  should  not  be 
limited  to  preventing  conflict,  but  should  go  further 
in  seeking  to  protect  victims  of  conflict,  including 
displaced  persons.  There  is  a  need  for  all  of  us  to 
cooperate  in  providing  for  a  environment  conducive 
to  respect  for  their  human  rights,  social  development 
and well-being. In this regard, I am pleased to inform 
the General Assembly that in June this year, in Zambia, 
I  assented  to  Zambia’s  Refugees  Act  of  2017,  which 
further  speaks  to  this  noble  duty  and  replaces  the 
previous  law,  which  did  not  go  far  enough  to  ensure 
an environment conducive to the promotion of human 
rights for the displaced in the region who happen to be 
hosted by our country, Zambia.
Peace,  security  and  the  rule  of  law  continue  to 
be  the  basis  for  the  meaningful  development  of  any 
society.  In  keeping  with  that  understanding,  my 
My  Government  attaches  great  importance  to 
the  needs  and  welfare  of  all,  with  a  particular  focus 
on  women,  children  and  youth.  Zambia  has  therefore 
17-29122
15/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
continued to make tremendous strides in its campaign 
to  end  child  marriage.  The  current  prevalence  rate 
stands  at  31.2  per  cent,  which  represents  a  10.8  per 
cent reduction from the 42 per cent rate at the time the 
campaign  was  launched.  We  have  also  continued  to 
engage traditional leaders in reforming traditions and 
customs  that  allow  child  marriage.  Currently,  we  are 
in the process of harmonizing statutory and customary 
law  on  marriage  to  completely  prohibit  and  eradicate 
child marriage in the country. Going forward, we are 
also repealing a number of discriminatory and outdated 
statutes  related  to  children  with  a  view  to  devising 
a  Children’s  Code  to  incorporate  the  provisions  of 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  into  our 
domestic law.
As  the  designated  2017  African  Union  champion 
for  ending  child  marriage,  I  am  delighted  to  inform 
the  Assembly  that  a  campaign  to  that  end  has  been 
launched  in  20  of  the  30  targeted  countries  in  Africa 
with  the  highest  prevalence  rates  of  child  marriage. 
These  programmes  are  essential 
to  enhancing 
advocacy  against  child  marriage  at  the  national  level. 
The  campaign  is  growing  from  strength  to  strength. 
However,  much  more  needs  to  be  done.  We  therefore 
call on all partners to join their efforts, and, together, 
let us raise our voices to protect our children and young 
people. The campaign will continue to gain momentum 
and reach out to member States to accelerate an end to 
this harmful practice.
Undoubtedly,  the  United  Nations  remains  the 
only  multilateral  institution  capable  of  addressing 
the  challenges  of  our  “one  world”.  The  world  looks 
to  the  Organization  to  encourage  dialogue  on  global 
challenges  in  an  inclusive  manner.  This  is  the  only 
practical  way  to  ensure  meaningful  and  effective 
international cooperation. There is, however, a need to 
reform the United Nations.
Zambia  believes  that  the  United  Nations  reforms 
that  have  been  launched  will  be  incomplete  without 
meaningful  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  our 
hope that reforms will make the Security Council more 
representative, democratic and accountable to all States 
Members of the United Nations, irrespective of status. 
This is essential if its decisions are to be accepted by 
the entire international community. Given that Africa 
constitutes  the  second  largest  bloc  of  United  Nations 
membership, proposals to reform the Security Council 
should heed the African continent’s call set forth in the 
Ezulwini Consensus.
to  cooperate  with 
the 
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
to  reaffirm  Zambia’s 
commitment 
international 
community  in  addressing  the  numerous  problems 
affecting  our  people,  including  ending  poverty.  We 
should not miss the opportunity to do what we can to 
make the world a better place for all of us to live.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zambia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Edgar  Chagwa  Lungu,  President  of  the 
Republic of Zambia, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Lithuania.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė, 
President of the Republic of Lithuania, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly.
topic  of 
President  Grybauskaitė:  The 
this 
year’s  debate  invites  us  to  focus  on  people  and  our 
responsibility to ensure their peaceful and sustainable 
future.  However,  in  today’s  world,  such  a  peaceful 
future  is  threatened  as  never  before.  Authoritarian 
regimes  continue  to  kill  with  impunity,  extremist 
ideologies  treat  innocent  people  with  unspeakable 
cruelty, and thousands die after leaving their homes in 
search for a better and more peaceful life.
The  world’s  attention  is  now  focused  on  North 
Korea  and  in  some  other  regions,  but  the  same  kinds 
of blackmail, bullying and aggression that we see there 
are  also  being  used  by  Russia  in  Ukraine  and  along 
NATO’s  eastern  border.  As  we  speak,  approximately 
100,000 Russian troops are engaged in Exercise Zapad 
2017  —  offensive  military  exercises  on  the  borders 
of  Baltic  States,  Poland  and  even  in  the  Arctic.  The 
Kremlin is rehearsing aggressive scenarios against its 
neighbours,  training  its  army  to  attack  the  West.  The 
exercise is also part of information warfare that aims to 
spread uncertainty and fear. It is even more disturbing 
16/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
that  the  Zapad  2017  exercise  is  just  one  symptom  of 
the Kremlin’s inability to finally end its hatred towards 
the West.
Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
the  Security  Council 
Despite  Russia’s  special 
responsibility  as  a 
permanent  member  of 
to 
protect  international  peace,  it  violated  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  by  attacking  Georgia,  illegally 
annexing Crimea and directly participating in the war 
in  the  east  of  Ukraine.  The  Kremlin’s  arsenal  does 
not stop at conventional weapons. Russia continues to 
meddle  in  elections  and  conduct  cyberattacks,  and  it 
uses its sputniks to spread fake news and destabilizing 
propaganda. Energy blackmail has long been Russia’s 
weapon  of  choice.  For  example,  in  Belarus,  just 
40 kilometres from Lithuania’s capital, it is building the 
unsafe Astravyets nuclear power plant as a geopolitical 
weapon  that  fails  to  comply  with  basic  international 
nuclear standards.
Abuses  and  indifference  to  basic  international 
norms by regimes across the world are not unrelated. 
Too often they are a result of our collective failure to 
condemn or properly react to violations. Time and time 
again we lack the courage to enforce the rules that we 
ourselves  have  established.  We  draw  red  lines  in  the 
sand  and  then  pretend  they  do  not  exist.  That  has  to 
change.  Bullies  are  aggressive  precisely  because  they 
are weak and insecure, which is why we must stop being 
passive observers and start calling things by their real 
names.  Aggression  can  never  make  anyone  stronger. 
It can never earn anyone a single drop of respect. The 
only thing that aggression will bring about is contempt, 
shame and condemnation.
The  international  community  has  to  take  a  share 
of responsibility. We cannot let fear win by closing our 
eyes to violators, because that will only encourage them 
to go further. We must learn to read the warning signs, 
because abuse of human rights, nationalist rhetoric and 
the  suppression  of  free  speech  explode  into  violence 
if ignored.
Finally, we must change the United Nations. This 
unique  universal  body  was  created  to  save  the  world 
from wars and instability. So far it has failed to fulfil 
that purpose. We now face a choice — we either give 
the Organization the voice to rise up against the abuse, 
or we render it irrelevant.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Lithuania for the statement she has just made.
Address by His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin 
Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Amir of the State of Qatar.
His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
Sheikh Al-Thani (spoke in Arabic): It gives me great 
pleasure to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  assuming  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session. We wish him 
every  success  in  his  mandate.  I  also  wish  to  express 
my appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson 
for his valuable efforts in managing the affairs of the 
General  Assembly  during  the  seventy-first  session.  I 
also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the  efforts  of 
His Excellency Secretary-General António Guterres to 
strengthen the role of the United Nations.
Maintaining  regional  and  international  peace  and 
security is a priority in the foreign policy of the State 
of  Qatar,  which  bases  its  principles  and  objectives 
on the Charter of the United Nations and the rules of 
international law. It calls for constructive cooperation 
among  States,  mutual  respect  and  non-interference  in 
internal  affairs,  as  well  as  good-neighbourliness  and 
the promotion of peaceful coexistence, while pursuing 
peaceful means to settle disputes.
The  issue  of  settling  disputes  by  peaceful  means 
is still being addressed as an episodic and non-binding 
proposal. Perhaps the time has come to impose dialogue 
and  negotiation  as  a  basis  for  resolving  disputes  by 
concluding  an  international  convention  on  settling 
disputes between States by peaceful means.
In that context, and after major events such as the 
Second World War, Rwanda and Burundi and the Balkan 
conflicts in the past century, the danger of the impunity 
of perpetrators of crimes against humanity and crimes 
of  genocide  has  returned  to  threaten  humankind  by 
17-29122
17/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
legitimacy 
becoming  the  rule  rather  than  the  exception,  because 
international 
to  political 
pressure,  the  interests  of  parties  and  the  dictation  of 
force  on  the  ground,  which  maintain  that  the  law  of 
force is able to supersede the force of law.
is  subjected 
In our view, major Powers should not range between 
two  extremes:  the  direct  occupation  of  countries  to 
impose the occupier’s will and policy, or standing idly 
by as an observer who does nothing with regard to wars 
of  genocide  and  crimes  against  humanity  perpetrated 
by fascist, despotic regimes, or to continuous repression 
by an occupying State of the people under occupation.
Lately  there  has  been  a  growing  sense  that 
people  under  repression  face  their  fate  alone,  as  if 
the  international  arena  were  governed  by  the  law  of 
the jungle and the countries under threat had to stand 
on  their  own  through  help  from  their  alliances  and 
relations, in the absence of a system to implement the 
provisions of international law and binding conventions 
and charters.
We  commend  the  President  for  the  theme  chosen 
for this session, that is, “Focusing on people: Striving 
for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet”.  In  that  context,  I  call  upon  the  Government 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Union  of  Myanmar  and  the 
international  community  to  assume  their  legal  and 
moral  responsibility  and  take  the  measures  necessary 
to  stop  the  violence  against  the  Rohingya  minority, 
provide them with protection, repatriate the displaced 
to 
their  homeland,  prevent  sectarian  or  ethnic 
discrimination against them and ensure that they have 
their full legitimate rights as full-fledged citizens. We 
urge  all  States  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to 
the Rohingya.
Every  time  I  stand  here,  I  speak  in  favour  of 
constructive  international  cooperation,  just  peace  and 
the rights of peoples under occupation, those who are 
subjected to crimes against humanity and those who are 
under siege. This time I stand here while my country 
and my people are subjected to a continuing and unjust 
blockade,  imposed  since  5  June  by  our  neighbouring 
countries.  The  blockade  involves  all  aspects  of  life, 
including intervention by those countries to sever family 
ties. At the moment Qatar is successfully managing its 
life — its economy, development plans and its outreach 
to the wider world — thanks to sea and air routes that 
those countries do not control.
The  blockade  was  imposed  abruptly  and  without 
warning,  prompting  Qataris  to  consider  it  as  a  kind 
of  betrayal.  It  seems  that  those  who  planned  and 
implemented  it  had  envisaged  that  their  action  would 
cause a shocking and direct impact that would bring the 
State of Qatar to its knees and cause it to capitulate to a 
total guardianship imposed upon it.
What is worse, those who schemed for the blockade 
found  it  necessary  to  rely  on  fabricated  quotes 
attributed to me, which they posted on the Qatar News 
Agency website after hacking it. The controlled media 
of  those  countries  were  ready  to  launch  an  all-out 
campaign of incitement, prepared in advance, in which 
all  values,  morals  and  norms  were  breached,  while  a 
torrent of lies infringed upon the truth. Funds are still 
being  spent  unsparingly  on  the  machine  faking  news 
and  disseminating  fabrications  in  the  hope  of  fooling 
people by distorting the truth with plain lies.
Despite the exposure of the hacking and falsification 
of quotes by the Amir of a sovereign State, the blockading 
countries  did  not  back  down  or  apologize  for  lying, 
but rather intensified their campaign, in the hope that 
the  blockade  would  cause  a  cumulative  effect  on  the 
economy and the society of my country, after it failed to 
have any direct impact. The perpetrators of the hacking 
and  the  falsified  quotes  have  committed  an  assault 
against  a  sovereign  State.  The  crime  was  deliberately 
committed for political aims and was followed by a list 
of political declarations, which contravene sovereignty. 
They caused worldwide astonishment.
about 
digital 
questions 
This  disgraceful  act  has  once  again  raised 
international 
security, 
cybercrime and electronic piracy. It has also revealed 
the anxiety in many public and official circles around 
the  world  over  the  absence  of  clear-cut  international 
legislation and institutions to govern this dangerous and 
vital field, or to punish the perpetrators of transnational 
crimes. It is high time to take steps in this regard. We 
are ready to mobilize our potential to serve in such a 
joint effort.
The  countries  that  imposed  the  unjust  blockade 
on Qatar have intervened in the internal affairs of the 
State by putting pressure on the citizens through food, 
medicine and family ties, with a view to forcing them 
to change their political affiliation so as to destabilize 
a sovereign country. Is this not one of the definitions 
of terrorism?
18/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
This  illegal  blockade  was  not  confined  to  the 
economic  field  and  to  breaching  the  World  Trade 
Organization  agreement,  but  went  beyond  that  to 
violate human rights conventions by arbitrary measures 
that have caused social and religious harm to thousands 
of  citizens  and  residents  of  the  countries  of  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council  by  violating  the  basic  human 
rights to work, education and the freedom of movement 
and the right to private property.
However,  things  did  not  stop  at  that  point,  as  the 
blockading  countries  went  on  to  persecute  their  own 
citizens on their own territories and to impose penalties 
of  imprisonment  and  fines  on  them  for  the  mere 
expression  of  their  sympathy  with  the  State  of  Qatar, 
even on social media. That was unprecedented, and it 
violates the human rights conventions and agreements 
that  guarantee  the  right  to  the  freedom  of  opinion 
and expression.
There  are  countries 
that  not  only  attack  a 
neighbouring country so as to dictate its foreign policy 
and media policy, but also believe that having a lot of 
money qualifies them to put pressure on other countries 
and blackmail them to participate in their aggression, 
while  they  are  supposed  to  be  held  accountable 
internationally for what they have committed.
The  countries  that  imposed  the  blockade  on  the 
State  of  Qatar  are  interfering  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  many  countries  and  accuse  all  those  who  oppose 
them, domestically or abroad, of terrorism. Thus they 
are harming the war on terror, while at the same time 
opposing reform and supporting the tyrannical regimes 
in our region, in whose prisons terrorists are born.
We were not alone in being taken by surprise by the 
imposition  of  the  blockade,  as  many  countries  whose 
leaders  have  questioned  its  motives  and  reasons  were 
also surprised. The blockading countries have promised 
all  those  who  asked  them  about  the  reasons  for  the 
blockade to provide them with evidence of their absurd 
anti-Qatar  allegations  and  fabrications,  which  keep 
changing according to the identity of the person being 
asked.  Everyone  is  still  waiting  for  evidence,  which 
has not arrived and will not arrive — because it does 
not exist. On the contrary, those allegations contradict 
the considerable evidence about Qatar’s contribution to 
the fight against terrorism, which is recognized by the 
entire international community.
The  State  of  Qatar  has  fought  terrorism,  and  the 
entire  international  community  bears  witness  to  that. 
It  is  still  fighting  terrorism  and  will  continue  to  do 
so. It stands in the camp of those who are fighting by 
security means and believes that it is necessary to fight 
terrorism ideologically as well. Qatar goes beyond that 
to  participate  in  drying  up  its  sources  by  providing 
education  to  7  million  children  around  the  world,  so 
that they do not fall prey to ignorance and radical ideas.
We  have  refused  to  yield  to  dictation  by  pressure 
and blockade, and our people will not be satisfied with 
anything  less.  At  the  same  time,  we  have  taken  an 
open  attitude  towards  dialogue  without  dictation  and 
have  expressed  our  readiness  to  resolve  differences 
through compromises based on common undertakings. 
Resolving  conflicts  by  peaceful  means  is  one  of  the 
priorities of our foreign policy. I renew here the call for 
an unconditional dialogue based on mutual respect for 
sovereignty. I highly value the sincere and appreciated 
mediation  that  the  State  of  Qatar  has  supported  since 
the  beginning  of  the  crisis,  which  was  initiated  by 
my  brother,  His  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad 
Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of the sisterly State of Kuwait. 
I  also  thank  all  the  countries  that  have  supported 
this mediation.
Allow  me  on  this  occasion  to  express  here  my 
pride in my Qatari people, along with the multinational 
and  multicultural  residents  of  Qatar.  The  people  have 
withstood  the  conditions  of  siege,  rejected  dictation 
with  resolve  and  pride,  insisted  on  the  independence 
of  Qatar’s  sovereign  decision  and  strengthened  its 
unity  and  solidarity,  while  maintaining  their  refined 
manners and their progress despite the fierceness of the 
campaign launched against them and their country.
I  reiterate  my  thanks  to  the  sisterly  and  friendly 
countries that recognize the significance of respecting 
the sovereignty of States and the rule of international 
law, while also appreciating their stance of remaining 
supportive of the Qatari people during this crisis.
Terrorism  and  extremism  are  among  the  most 
serious  challenges  facing  the  world.  Countering  them 
requires  us  all  to  carry  out  concerted  action  against 
terrorist organizations and their extremist ideology, in 
order to maintain security for humankind and stability 
for the world. Governments worldwide have no choice 
but to cooperate in dealing with the threat of terrorism 
as a security issue, but halting the spread of terrorism 
and  extremism  can  be  achieved  by  addressing  its 
social, political and cultural root causes. We must also 
17-29122
19/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
be careful not to use the fight against terrorism as an 
umbrella to cover reprisals or the shelling of civilians.
The  fight  against  terrorism  and  extremism  was 
and will continue to be a top priority. That is affirmed 
by  the  effective  participation  of  the  State  of  Qatar 
in  regional  and  international  efforts  to  implement 
the  measures  included  in  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  adopted  in  2006,  and  all 
the Security Council resolutions and measures related 
to countering terrorism and its financing.
We have also participated in international coalitions 
and  regional  organizations  and  nurtured  bilateral 
relations with the United States of America and many 
countries of the world. The State of Qatar will continue 
its regional and international efforts in this regard and 
will develop them further.
While reaffirming our condemnation of all forms 
of  extremism  and  terrorism,  we  reject  the  tackling  of 
this phenomenon using double standards, according to 
the  identity  of  the  perpetrators,  or  linking  terrorism 
with  a  particular  religion,  race,  civilization,  culture 
or society.
The issues facing the Middle East continue to pose 
the greatest threat to international peace and security 
due to the vital importance of that region to the world. 
Israel  still  stands  in  the  way  of  achieving  a  lasting, 
just  and  comprehensive  peace  and  rejects  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative. The Israeli Government maintains its 
intransigent  approach  and  strategy  to  create  facts  on 
the ground through expanding settlement construction 
in  the  occupied  territories,  Judaizing  Jerusalem  and 
restricting  the  performance  of  religious  rituals  in  the 
Al-Aqsa Mosque, which is a serious, provocative act. It 
also continues to impose its blockade on the Gaza Strip.
The international community must give high priority 
to the resumption of peace negotiations on the basis of 
ending  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Arab  territories 
within a specified time frame, and to reaching a just, 
comprehensive and vital settlement, in accordance with 
the two-State solution, agreed upon by the international 
community and based on the resolutions of international 
legitimacy and the Arab Peace Initiative. A settlement 
will be achieved only through the establishment of an 
independent Palestinian State on the basis of the 1967 
borders,  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  I  renew  my 
appeal  to  my  Palestinian  brothers  to  achieve  national 
reconciliation,  consolidate  their  positions  and  speak 
with  one  voice  when  confronting  the  dangers  and 
challenges facing the Palestinian question on the future 
of the Palestinian people.
The  international  community  is  unable  to  find  a 
solution  to  the  Syrian  crisis  despite  its  consequences 
and serious repercussions for the region and the world. 
Political  efforts  continue  to  falter  due  to  conflicting 
international  and  regional  interests,  which  serve  to 
protect  those  against  whom  we  are  supposed  to  stand 
united. The international community has relinquished 
its  legal  and  moral  responsibilities,  including  the 
implementation  of  its  decisions,  and  has  succumbed 
to the logic of force. What is required is serious work 
to  reach  a  political  solution  to  the  Syrian  crisis  in  a 
way  that  meets  the  aspirations  of  the  Syrian  people 
to  justice,  dignity  and  freedom,  and  to  maintain  the 
unity and sovereignty of Syria, in accordance with the 
decisions of the Geneva I Conference on Syria. Qatar 
will spare no effort in providing support and assistance 
to  alleviate  the  humanitarian  suffering  of  our  Syrian 
brothers  and  to  implement  our  humanitarian  pledges 
within the framework of the United Nations.
The international community has given up the task 
of protecting civilians. Will it also hesitate to find war 
criminals  accountable?  Their  impunity  will  have  dire 
consequences for the situation in Syria and the region, 
and would affect the behaviour of future dictatorships 
towards their peoples in the absence of any deterrent.
Turning  to  the  Libyan  question,  Libya’s  national 
consensus, which would preserve its unity, sovereignty 
and  social  fabric  and  restore  its  stability,  could 
be  achieved  by  means  of  combining  domestic  and 
international efforts. We must all intensify our efforts 
and support the Government of National Accord, which 
has  been  established  with  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations, in its effort to restore stability and to counter 
terrorism  and  its  grave  consequences.  The  State  of 
Qatar  has  supported  international  mediation  efforts 
and  will  support  them  in  future  in  order  to  meet  the 
aspirations of the Libyan people.
Concerning  the  fraternal  country  of  Iraq,  we 
support the efforts of the Iraqi Government to achieve 
security,  stability  and  the  unity  of  the  territory  and 
people of Iraq. We commend the achievements of the 
Iraqi people in their fight against terrorism. We reaffirm 
our  support  to  promote  their  victory  by  helping  the 
people of Iraq to realize their aspirations for equality 
among  all  its  citizens  and  to  restore  Iraq’s  role  at  the 
regional and international levels.
20/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
Concerning  Yemen,  we  affirm  the  importance  of 
maintaining Yemen’s unity, security and stability and 
ending the state of infighting and war, while adopting 
dialogue, a political solution and national reconciliation 
as  a  basis  for  ending  this  crisis  and  implementing 
Security  Council  resolution  2216  (2015).  We  call  on 
the  international  community  to  facilitate  the  access 
of humanitarian assistance to various Yemeni regions. 
The  State  of  Qatar  supports  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations Special Envoy for Yemen to end the crisis and 
realize the aspirations of the brotherly Yemeni people 
to attain unity, security and stability.
In  order  to  achieve  security  and  stability  in  the 
Gulf  region,  we  reiterate  the  call  that  we  have  made 
before  from  this  rostrum  for  a  constructive  dialogue 
between  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  countries  and 
Iran on the basis of common interests, the principle of 
good-neighbourliness, respect for State sovereignty and 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States.
In the framework of international efforts to address 
humanitarian  crises,  the  State  of  Qatar  continues  to 
contribute to the international response to the growing 
humanitarian  needs  of  the  world  at  large.  We  have 
increased  our  financial  contributions  to  the  United 
Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs  (OCHA)  so  as  to  enable  the  Organization  to 
implement  its  programmes  and  provide  humanitarian 
relief to those in need worldwide.
The State of Qatar ranks third on the list of major 
donors  to  OCHA  in  2017.  We  continue  to  provide 
support to countries facing challenges in implementing 
their  development  plans.  It  is  worth  mentioning  here 
that the State of Qatar ranked first in the Arab world 
and 33rd in the world in the field of human development. 
This proves the effectiveness of our humanitarian and 
development policy. We look forward to achieving the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  we  all  have 
committed to achieve.
In conclusion, we reiterate that the State of Qatar 
will  spare  no  effort  in  strengthening  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  and  and  efforts  to  achieve  what  the 
international  community  seeks,  bringing  peace  and 
security  and  promoting  human  rights  and  advancing 
development. Qatar will remain, as is always the case, 
a safe haven for the oppressed, and we will continue its 
mediation efforts to find just solutions in conflict zones.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar for the statement he has just made.
Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, President 
of the Republic of Turkey
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Turkey.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan, 
President of the Republic of Turkey, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Erdoğan (spoke in Turkish; interpretation 
provided  by  the  delegation):  I  greet  the  General 
Assembly  with  respect  on  behalf  of  myself  and 
my country.
I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  for  his 
successful work over the past year as President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session. I would 
also like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, who has 
assumed the presidency of the General Assembly.
I  hope  that  this  year’s  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  which  has  been  convened  under  the  theme 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”,  will  bring  well-
being to all of the world’s peoples.
Unfortunately,  global  peace  and  stability  have 
regressed  further  since  our  meeting  in  the  Hall  last 
year. We continue to see the ugly face of terror and war 
in  different  corners  of  the  world.  Terrorists,  who  are 
fuelled  by  an  environment  of  conflict,  continue  their 
acts,  spreading  terror  across  different  regions.  We 
are  anxiously  observing  the  violent  actions  of  radical 
currents  converging  on  xenophobia,  cultural  racism 
and animosity against Islam.
The most effective way of reversing this negative 
outlook  would  be  to  engage  in  sincere  cooperation 
in the Hall. We need to develop a new perspective to 
promote world peace. No crisis or threat can possibly 
17-29122
21/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
be resolved by allowing it to play out on its own. We 
all  have  to  shoulder  responsibility  for  a  safer  and 
more prosperous world. It is in that understanding that 
Turkey  is  pursuing  an  enterprising  and  humanitarian 
foreign policy.
The  Syrian  conflict  has  entered  its  seventh  year. 
This conflict has created deep wounds in the country, 
the region and throughout the world. In Syria, an entire 
civilization is being annihilated, together with civilians 
and innocent children. Terrorism, which is destroying 
the country and is fuelled by instability and oppression, 
is  spreading  like  a  cancer  across  borders.  The  Syrian 
people  who 
took  action  demanding  democracy, 
freedom, justice and a bright future were, unfortunately, 
abandoned by the international community.
Turkey cannot remain indifferent to the tragedy of 
these people, whom we see as our brothers and sisters 
regardless of their origin or creed and to whom we are 
connected  by  deep  historical  ties.  Since  the  outbreak 
of the conflict in Syria in the spring of 2011, we have 
exerted all kinds of humanitarian and political efforts 
to  solve  the  problem  and  we  will  continue  to  do  so. 
We are currently hosting more than 3 million Syrians 
and over 200,000 Iraqis in our country. Together with 
Russia and Iran, we have launched the Astana meetings, 
with the participation of all parties to the conflict, in 
order to establish a permanent ceasefire and peace in 
the country.
Following  our  initiatives,  the  Geneva  process, 
which has long been blocked, has been revived. We are 
putting into practice a new plan to ensure the security 
of the Idlib region in Syria within the framework of the 
agreement  reached  in  Astana.  Turkey  would  support 
any  step  towards  the  construction  of  a  stable  and 
prosperous  Syria,  based  on  the  territorial  integrity  of 
the country and on respect for the democratic demands 
of its people.
We have taken and will continue to take all kinds 
of measures for those who came to our country with the 
outbreak of the Syrian crisis and to stem the influx of 
refugees  into  Europe.  We  meet  all  the  needs  of  these 
people, from shelter to food and clothing and from health 
care to education, at standards that are appreciated by 
all those who visit our country. However, I would like to 
underscore that we have not received sufficient support 
from the international community, especially from the 
European  Union,  for  our  efforts.  The  expenditures  of 
our  public  institutions,  civil-society  organizations 
and  our  people  in  order  to  meet  the  needs  of  those 
living in the camps and cities in Turkey have exceeded 
$30 billion. In response, the European Union has sent 
only €820 million out of the €3 billion + €3 billion that 
it promised. The total assistance from the international 
community 
the  United  Nations  remains 
around  $520  million.  I  should  point  out  that  no  share 
of the assistance intended for the Syrians goes into our 
own budget; it is all delivered to those in need by the 
relief agencies through the relevant institutions of the 
United Nations.
through 
Before  the  whole  world,  I  hereby  call  on  the 
countries  and  international  organizations  that  have 
placed  the  entire  burden  of  the  3.2  million  people  on 
Turkey’s shoulders to fulfil the promises they made. In 
fact, Turkey is a country that carries out humanitarian 
aid  and  development  assistance  activities  around 
the  world.  Not  only  do  we  welcome  those  who  come 
to  our  country,  but  through  the  Turkish  Cooperation 
and  Coordination  Agency,  the  Turkish  Disaster  and 
Management  Authority  and  the  Turkish  Red  Crescent 
and various civil-society organizations we rush to the 
help  of  all  who  are  suffering  and  under  oppression, 
regardless of which part of the world they may be in. 
For example, through its official institutions and civil-
society  organizations,  Turkey  has  spent  $1  billion  for 
the reconstruction of Somalia so far. The work we carry 
out and the results we have achieved in Somalia could 
indeed provide an example for similar efforts.
According to confirmed statistics of the Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development,  with 
$6 billion in humanitarian and development aid in 2016, 
Turkey ranked as the world’s second-largest donor and 
top  contributor  in  terms  of  gross  national  product. 
Yet, Turkey is the seventeenth-largest economy in the 
world. Having spent 0.8 per cent of its national income 
on  humanitarian  assistance,  Turkey  is  one  of  the  six 
countries that could meet the United Nations target.
Therefore, Turkey is working diligently to achieve a 
sustainable world, which is the theme of this session of 
the General Assembly. We will continue in the coming 
days with the same consideration in mind.
Turkey  is  engaged  in  an  intense  fight  against  the 
bloody  terrorist  organizations  of  the  region,  such 
as  Da’esh  and  the  Kurdish  Workers’  Party,  which 
are  nourished  by  the  instability  in  Syria  and  Iraq.  In 
addition,  our  fight  against  the  Fethullah  Terrorist 
Organization, which attempted to change the legitimate 
22/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
and democratic regime of Turkey by a bloody coup, is 
also ongoing. We have recovered 243 residential areas 
and a tract of land larger than 2,000 kilometres thanks to 
Operation Euphrates Shield, initiated in Syria following 
the  attacks  by  Da’esh  on  our  borders.  We  neutralized 
almost  3,000  Da’esh  militants  during  that  operation. 
Around  100,000  Syrians  returned  to  and  resettled  in 
the region we cleared of terrorists. Operation Euphrates 
Shield  is  the  single  greatest  accomplishment  against 
Da’esh since its occupation of the region.
following 
fact  before 
the Assembly. Most of the groups and forces claiming 
to be fighting Da’esh in the region in fact have no such 
goal.  These  groups  and  forces  are  using  Da’esh  as  a 
pretext to realize their own agendas.
I  must  highlight 
the 
The  efforts  of  the  Partiya  Yekitiya  Demokrat-
People’s  Protection  Units  to  change  the  demographic 
structure  of  the  regions  it  has  captured,  to  seize  the 
property  of  the  people  and  to  kill  or  exile  those  who 
stand against it constitute a crime against humanity.
If  the  fight  against  Da’esh  is  not  waged  on  a 
legitimate basis, the world will certainly face the threat 
of new, Da’esh-like entities.
Similar approaches exist in Iraq as well. Iraq also 
requires  that  compromises  be  reached  on  the  basis  of 
territorial  integrity  and  the  realization  of  the  ideal  of 
building  a  common  future.  Steps  such  as  demands 
for  independence  that  can  cause  fresh  crises  and 
conflicts in the region must be avoided. We hereby call 
on  the  Iraqi  Kurdish  Regional  Government  to  abort 
the  initiative  that  it  has  launched  in  that  direction. 
Ignoring the clear and determined stance of Turkey on 
this  issue  could  lead  to  a  process  that  would  deprive 
the  Iraqi  Kurdish  Regional  Government  of  even  the 
opportunities they currently enjoy. We all should work 
on building tranquillity, peace, security and stability in 
the region instead of sparking new conflicts.
In  addition  to  Syria  and  Iraq,  we  are  also  closely 
following regions in Libya and in Yemen where terrorist 
organizations are trying to establish their influence. The 
international  community’s  support  for  the  legitimate 
Government  of  Libya  will  contribute  significantly  to 
the stability of the country. It should be kept in mind 
that if the mistakes made in Syria and Iraq were to be 
repeated in Libya, that would expose the entire world, 
particularly Europe, to much greater threats.
Another  issue  on  which  Turkey  places  special 
emphasis  is  the  immediate  resolution  of  the  conflict 
that  has  erupted  in  the  Gulf  region.  We  believe  that 
the  sanctions  that  are  negatively  affecting  the  living 
conditions  of  the  Qatari  people  should  be  lifted 
forthwith. We support the mediation efforts of the Amir 
of Kuwait, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, 
to resolve the crisis. Our hope is that these efforts will 
yield positive results. We also hope that Saudi Arabia, 
which  we  see  as  the  elder  brother  of  the  Gulf  region, 
will show a sincere will to resolve this issue.
Another important problem is the issue of Palestine, 
which we consider to be the gaping wound of the world, 
and,  by  extension,  the  preservation  of  the  historical 
status  of  Jerusalem  and  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif,  that  is, 
the  Temple  Mount.  The  crisis  in  Al-Haram  Al-Sharif 
in  July  demonstrated  the  sensitivity  of  the  issue.  The 
continuation of the peace process can be possible only 
on the condition that Israel immediately stop its illegal 
settlement  activities  and  take  steps  towards  a  two-
State solution.
In 
this  context,  I  call  on 
international 
community  to  support  our  Palestinian  brothers  and 
sisters in East Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza in 
their  struggle  for  an  independent  and  geographically 
unified Palestinian State.
the 
Despite  the  current  absence  of  conflict  there,  the 
Balkans  is  another  geographical  location  of  potential 
crisis that still faces serious challenges. For this reason, 
we  attach  great  importance  to  the  integration  of  the 
Balkan  countries  into  the  Euro-Atlantic  institutions. 
Turkey will continue to do its part to ensure that peace, 
stability and well-being prevail in this exceptional part 
of the world.
The 
territorial 
integrity  of  Azerbaijan  and 
Georgia is the key to regional stability in the southern 
Caucasus. Therefore, we need to work harder towards 
the  resolution  of  the  conflicts  in  Nagorno  Karabakh, 
Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
We should never forget that each crisis we ignore 
today  has  the  potential  to  spark  a  regional  or  even 
global  crisis  tomorrow.  In  this  context,  I  would  also 
like to underline that we are against nuclear weapons of 
all kinds, which have increasingly come to occupy the 
world agenda in recent days. It is clear that we cannot 
overcome these problems unless we completely free the 
world of the scourge of nuclear weapons.
17-29122
23/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
We  are  also  saddened  by  the  fact  that  the 
comprehensive  negotiation  process  begun  in  2008 
has  ended  owing  to  the  incomprehensible  stance  of 
the  Greek  Cypriots.  We  will  do  our  best  to  ensure 
that  the  natural  resources  discovered  in  the  eastern 
Mediterranean  in  recent  years  serve  to  further  the 
peace, stability and welfare of the region. We are ready 
to  consider  proposals  for  a  solution  that  respects  the 
rights of Turkish Cypriots.
Our  world,  already  struggling  with  all  of  these 
global and regional problems, was shocked once again 
by the sad news that we received from Myanmar a few 
weeks  ago.  The  Muslim  community  in  the  Rakhine 
region of Myanmar is being subjected to what almost 
amounts to ethnic cleansing, with provocative terrorist 
acts  used  as  a  pretext.  The  villages  of  the  Rohingya 
Muslims,  who  have  already  been  living  in  extreme 
poverty and misery, deprived of their citizenship rights, 
are  being  burned  as  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people 
are forced to migrate from the region and the country.
The  camps  in  Bangladesh  to  which  the  people 
migrating from the region are being diverted are not in 
a  position  to  meet  even  their  minimum  humanitarian 
needs.  As  is  the  case  in  Syria,  the  international 
community  has  not  given  a  good  account  of  itself 
regarding  the  humanitarian  plight  of  the  Rohingya 
Muslims. If the tragedy in Myanmar is not stopped, the 
history  of  humankind  will  be  marred  by  yet  another 
dark stain. What is most important is to ensure that the 
Rohingya  people  who  have  taken  refuge  outside  their 
country,  especially  in  Bangladesh,  are  able  to  live  in 
safety and peace and in conditions of well-being on their 
own lands, where they have lived for centuries. Turkey 
is endeavouring to help resolve this crisis as well.
Recently,  on  the  occasion  of  a  meeting  of  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC),  we  held 
a  special  session  on  that  issue  in  Astana,  the  capital 
of  Kazakhstan,  with  the  participating  countries.  My 
wife, my son and our Ministers who visited the camps 
in  Bangladesh  immediately  after  the  latest  crisis 
personally  witnessed  the  humanitarian  plight  of  the 
people  there.  Clothing,  food  and  other  humanitarian 
aid was provided, and we are now looking at the second 
phase  of  such  aid.  We  will  be  holding  a  meeting  of 
the  OIC  Contact  Group  on  Rohingya  Muslims  here 
at the United Nations this afternoon. As I mentioned, 
my  wife,  my  son,  our  Ministers  and  some  Turkish 
non-governmental  organizations  visited  the  area.  The 
Turkish  International  Cooperation  and  Coordination 
Agency,  the  Turkish  official  aid  organization,  is  also 
in  the  region;  it  is  the  only  organization  carrying  out 
assistance activities.
Furthermore,  the  Turkish  Red  Crescent  and  other 
non-governmental  organizations  are  continuing  to 
deliver  humanitarian  aid  to  the  Rakhine  Muslims 
in  Myanmar.  If  the  countries  concerned  provide  the 
necessary  means,  we  would  like  to  continue  our 
assistance  activities  in  a  more  comprehensive  way.  I 
discussed  these  issues  with  the  Secretary-General  of 
the United Nations, His Excellency António Guterres, 
and we are now preparing to take further steps.
All 
these 
and 
developments 
humanitarian 
tragedies  confirm  the  relevance  of  our  appeal  for  the 
restructuring  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the 
Security  Council,  as  symbolized  by  our  motto,  “The 
world  is  bigger  than  five”.  Gathered  here  under  this 
roof, we must understand that it is high time to reform 
the  Security  Council.  Under  this  roof,  we  represent 
the  entire  world,  but  if  we  cannot  display  the  will  to 
prevent murders carried out by terrorist organizations 
or prevent humanitarian crises, then everyone will find 
ways to help themselves.
If that understanding prevails, then our world will 
be dragged into a new maelstorm of chaos and cruelty. 
If Western countries do not prevent tendencies such as 
xenophobia, racism and animosity against Islam, if the 
countries in the crisis-ridden regions of the world do not 
demonstrate decisive will to fight terrorist organizations 
and poverty, and if all of us do not cooperate with one 
another on all of those fronts, then how can we possibly 
reach our ideals of peace and a decent life for all on a 
sustainable planet?
We  support  the  work  done  to  that  end  by  the 
cooperated 
Secretary-General,  with  whom  we 
closely  during  his  tenure  as  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Refugees. It is in nobody’s interest 
to  insist  on  the  continuation  of  this  distorted  system, 
which no longer has the capacity to take concrete steps 
towards the good of humankind under its current form.
We want the Security Council to have a democratic, 
transparent,  fair  and  effective  structure.  We  propose 
that the Security Council consist of 20 members with the 
same rights and competencies — each member serving 
for two years and half replaced every year. In that way, 
all countries would have a say in that important organ 
when it was their turn. It is imperative that we transform 
the United Nations, because the world is changing. We 
24/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
are living in a different world than the one where the 
United Nations was established after the Second World 
War. We must talk about a United Nations administered 
by representatives of the entire world as the embodiment 
of humankind’s common conscience.
Before I conclude my remarks, let me remind the 
Assembly that, regardless of the colour of our faces and 
eyes, our tears are the same. I urge the Assembly take 
action immediately to stop the tears flowing in different 
parts of the world. I hope that the work of the seventy-
second session of the General Assembly will contribute 
to our efforts to that end. With those thoughts, I salute 
with  amity  and  respect  all  countries  and  peoples 
represented under this roof, at this joint parliament of 
humankind.  On  my  own  behalf,  and  on  behalf  of  my 
country,  I  extend  my  greetings  to  the  Assembly.  God 
bless the Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Turkey for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Mr. Danon (Israel), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Agenda item 8
Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister of the State of Israel
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State 
of Israel.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu, 
Prime Minister of the State of Israel, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Netanyahu  (Israel):  We  are  in  the  midst  of 
a  great  revolution  —  a  revolution  in  Israel’s  standing 
among  the  nations.  It  is  happening  because  so  many 
countries  around  the  world  have  finally  woken  up 
to  what  Israel  can  do  for  them.  Those  countries  now 
recognize what brilliant investors like Warren Buffett 
and  great  companies  like  Google  and  Intel  have 
recognized  and  known  for  years,  that  is,  that  Israel 
is  the  innovation  nation,  the  place  for  cutting-edge 
technology  in  agriculture,  in  water,  in  cybersecurity, 
in medicine, in autonomous vehicles. You name it, we 
have got it.
in  fighting 
Those  countries  now  also  recognize  Israel’s 
exceptional  capabilities 
terrorism.  In 
recent  years,  Israel  has  provided  intelligence  that  has 
prevented  dozens  of  major  terrorist  attacks  around 
the  world.  We  have  saved  countless  lives.  Members 
may not know it, but their Governments do. And they 
are  working  closely  together  with  Israel  to  keep  their 
countries and its citizens safe.
I stood here last year, at this rostrum, and I spoke 
about that profound change in Israel’s standing around 
the  world  (see  A/71/PV.14).  Just  look  at  what  has 
happened  since.  In  one  year,  hundreds  of  Presidents, 
Prime  Ministers,  Foreign  Ministers  and  other  leaders 
have visited Israel — many for the first time. Of those 
many visits, two were truly historic. In May, President 
Trump became the first American President to include 
Israel in his first visit abroad. President Trump stood 
at the Western Wall, at the foot of the Temple Mount, 
where  the  Jewish  people’s  temples  stood  for  nearly 
1,000 years. When the President touched those ancient 
stones, he touched our hearts forever.
In July, Prime Minister Modi became the first Indian 
Prime Minister to visit Israel. Some here may have seen 
the pictures. We were on a beach in Hadera. We rode 
together in a Jeep outfitted with a portable desalination 
device that some thriving Israeli entrepreneur invented. 
We took off our shoes, waded into the Mediterranean 
and drank seawater that had been purified only a few 
minutes earlier. We imagined the endless possibilities 
for Israel, for India and for all of humankind.
In  the  past  year,  Israel  has  hosted  many  world 
leaders.  I  had  the  honour  of  representing  my  country 
on  six  different  continents  in  one  year.  I  went  to 
Africa, where I saw Israeli innovators increasing crop 
yields,  turning  air  into  water,  fighting  AIDS.  I  went 
to  Asia,  where  we  deepened  our  relations  with  China 
and Singapore, and expanded our cooperation with our 
Muslim friends in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. I went 
to  Europe,  where,  in  London  and  Paris,  Thessaloniki 
and Budapest we enhanced our security and economic 
ties.  I  went  to  Australia,  becoming  the  first  Israeli 
Prime  Minister  to  visit  our  great  allies  down  under. 
And just last week, I went to South America, visiting 
Argentina  and  Colombia,  and  then  I  went  on  to 
Mexico  —  becoming,  if  members  can  believe  it,  the 
17-29122
25/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
first  Israeli  Prime  Minister  to  visit  Latin  America. 
After 70 years, the world is embracing Israel, and Israel 
is embracing the world.
In one year, I visited six continents. It is true that I 
have not yet visited Antarctica, but I want to go there too, 
because I have heard that penguins are also enthusiastic 
supporters  of  Israel.  Members  laugh.  But  penguins 
have  no  difficulty  recognizing  that  some  things  are 
black or white, are right or wrong. Unfortunately, when 
it comes to United Nations decisions about Israel, that 
simple  recognition  is  too  often  absent.  It  was  absent 
last  December,  when  the  Security  Council  adopted 
anti-Israel  resolution  2334  (2016),  which  set  back  the 
cause of peace.
It  was  absent  last  May,  when  the  World  Health 
Organization — one has to listen to this — adopted a 
Syrian-sponsored draft resolution that criticized Israel 
for health conditions on the Golan Heights. As the great 
John  McEnroe  would  say,  “You  cannot  be  serious!” 
That is preposterous. Syria has barrel-bombed, starved, 
gassed and murdered hundreds of thousands of its own 
citizens,  and  wounded  millions  more,  while  Israel 
has provided life-saving medical care to thousands of 
Syrian victims of that very same carnage. Yet who does 
the World Health Organization criticize? Israel.
Is  there  no  limit  to  United  Nations  absurdities 
when  it  comes  to  Israel?  Apparently  not,  because  in 
July, UNESCO declared the Tomb of the Patriarchs in 
Hebron a Palestinian World Heritage Site. That is worse 
than  fake  news;  that  is  fake  history.  While  it  is  true 
that Abraham, the father of both Ishmael and Isaac, is 
buried  there,  so  are  Isaac,  Jacob,  Sarah,  Rebecca  and 
Leah — who just happen to be patriarchs and matriarchs 
of the Jewish people. Members will not read about that in 
the latest UNESCO report. But if members want to read 
about it, they can in a somewhat weightier publication. 
It is called the Bible. I highly recommend it. I hear it got 
four and a half out of five stars on Amazon, and it is a 
great read. I read it every week.
Let  me  now  be  serious.  Despite  the  absurdities, 
despite the repetition of those farcical events, there is 
change.  Slowly,  but  surely,  there  are  signs  of  positive 
change  —  even  at  the  United  Nations.  I  very  much 
appreciate  the  statement  of  the  Secretary-General, 
indicating  that  denying  Israel’s  right  to  exist  is 
anti-Semitism  —  pure  and  simple.  That  is  important, 
because for too long the epicentre of global anti-semitism 
has been right here at the United Nations. And while it 
may take many years, I am absolutely confident that the 
revolution  of  Israel’s  ties  with  individual  nations  will 
ultimately  be  reflected  here  in  this  Hall  of  nations.  I 
say that because there is also a marked change in the 
position of some of our key friends. Thanks to President 
Trump’s  unequivocal  support  for  Israel  in  this  organ, 
that positive change is gathering force. I thank President 
Trump for supporting Israel at the United Nations, and I 
thank Ambassador Nikki Haley for her support. I thank 
them for speaking the truth about Israel.
Here at the United Nations we must also speak the 
truth about Iran, as President Trump did so powerfully 
this morning (see A/72/PV.3). I served as Ambassador 
to the United Nations and I am a long-serving Israeli 
Prime Minister, so I have listened to countless speeches 
in  this  Hall.  But  I  can  say  this  —  none  were  bolder, 
none  were  more  courageous  and  forthright,  than  the 
one  delivered  by  President  Trump  today.  President 
Trump  rightly  called  the  nuclear  deal  with  Iran  “an 
embarrassment”.  I  could  not  agree  with  that  more. 
Here is why — Iran vows to destroy my country every 
day.  That  vow  was  repeated  by  its  Chief  of  Staff  the 
other  day.  Iran  is  conducting  a  campaign  of  conquest 
across the Middle East. And Iran is developing ballistic 
missiles to threaten the entire world.
Two years ago (see A/70/PV.22), I stood here and 
explained  why  the  Iranian  nuclear  deal  not  only  did 
not block Iran’s path to the bomb, but actually paved it. 
That is because the restrictions placed on Iran’s nuclear 
programme have what is called a “sunset clause”. Let 
me explain what that term means. It means that in a few 
years those restrictions will be automatically removed, 
not by a change in Iran’s behaviour, not by a lessening 
of its terror or its aggression, but merely by a change 
in the calendar. I warned that when that sunset came, a 
dark shadow would be cast over the entire Middle East 
and  the  world  —  because  Iran  would  then  be  free  to 
enrich uranium on an industrial scale, placing it on the 
threshold of a massive arsenal of nuclear weapons.
That  is  why  I  said  two  years  ago  that  the  greater 
danger was not that Iran would rush to a single bomb by 
breaking the deal, but that Iran would be able to build 
many bombs by keeping the deal. In the past few months 
we  have  all  seen  how  dangerous  even  a  few  nuclear 
weapons can be in the hands of a small rogue regime. 
Imagine the danger of hundreds of nuclear weapons in 
the  hands  of  a  vast  Iranian  Islamist  empire,  with  the 
missiles to deliver them anywhere on Earth. I know that 
there are those who still defend the dangerous deal with 
26/28 
17-29122
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.4
Iran, arguing that it will block Iran’s path to the bomb. 
That  is  exactly  what  they  said  about  the  nuclear  deal 
with North Korea, and we all know how that turned out. 
Unfortunately,  if  nothing  changes,  this  deal  will  turn 
out exactly the same way.
That  is  why  Israel’s  policy  regarding  the  nuclear 
deal with Iran is very simple — change it or cancel it, 
fix it or nix it. Nixing the deal means restoring massive 
pressure  on  Iran,  including  crippling  sanctions,  until 
Iran  fully  dismantles  its  nuclear-weapon  capabilities. 
Fixing  the  deal  requires  many  things,  among  them 
inspecting  military  sites  and  any  other  site  that  is 
suspect, and penalizing Iran for every violation. Above 
all,  fixing  the  deal  means  getting  rid  of  the  sunset 
clause. Beyond fixing this bad deal, we must also stop 
Iran’s development of ballistic missiles and roll back its 
growing aggression in the region.
I  remember  we  have  had  these  debates.  As 
members  know,  I  took  a  fairly  active  role  in  them. 
Many  supporters  of  the  deal  naively  believed  that 
it  would  somehow  moderate  Iran  and  make  it  a 
“responsible” member of the international community. 
I strongly disagreed. I warned that, when the sanctions 
on  Iran  would  be  removed,  Iran  would  behave  like  a 
hungry tiger unleashed — not joining the community 
of  nations,  but  devouring  nations  one  after  the  other. 
That  is  precisely  what  Iran  is  doing  today.  From  the 
Caspian  Sea  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  from  Tehran 
to Tartus, an Iranian curtain is descending across the 
Middle East. Iran spreads that curtain of tyranny and 
terror over Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and elsewhere. And it 
pledges to extinguish the light of Israel. Today I have 
a simple message for Ayatollah Khamenei, the dictator 
of Iran: the light of Israel will never be extinguished.
Those  who  threaten  us  with  annihilation  put 
themselves  in  mortal  peril.  Israel  will  defend  itself 
with  the  full  force  of  our  arms  and  the  full  power 
of  our  convictions.  We  will  act  to  prevent  Iran  from 
establishing  permanent  military  bases  in  Syria  for 
its  air,  sea  and  ground  forces.  We  will  act  to  prevent 
Iran  from  producing  deadly  weapons,  in  Syria  or  in 
Lebanon, for use against us. And we will act to prevent 
Iran from opening new terror fronts against Israel along 
our northern border. As long as Iran’s regime seeks the 
destruction  of  Israel,  Iran  will  face  no  fiercer  enemy 
than Israel.
But I also have a message today for the people of 
Iran, who are not our enemy. They are our friends. One 
day my Iranian friends will be free from the evil regime 
that  terrorizes  them,  hangs  gays,  jails  journalists, 
tortures political prisoners and shoots innocent women 
like Neda Soltani, leaving her choking on her own blood 
on the streets of Tehran. I have not forgotten Neda, and 
I  am  sure  that  neither  have  members.  When  the  day 
of liberation for the people of Iran finally comes, the 
friendship between our two ancient peoples will surely 
flourish once again.
Israel knows that we are not alone in confronting 
the  Iranian  regime.  We  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder 
with those in the Arab world who share our hopes for 
a brighter future. We have made peace with Jordan and 
Egypt, whose courageous President, Mr. Abdel Fattah 
Al Sisi, I met here last night. I appreciate President Al 
Sisi’s support for peace, and I hope to work closely with 
him and other leaders in the region to advance peace. 
Israel is committed to achieving peace with all of our 
Arab neighbours, including the Palestinians.
Yesterday  President  Trump  and  I  discussed  all  of 
this  at  great  length.  I  appreciate  President  Trump’s 
leadership,  his  commitment  to  stand  by  Israel’s  side, 
his  commitment  to  advance  a  peaceful  future  for  all. 
Together, we can seize the opportunities for peace and 
together  we  can  confront  the  great  dangers  of  Iran. 
The  remarkable  alliance  between  the  United  States 
and  Israel  has  never  been  stronger  and  never  been 
deeper. Israel is deeply grateful for the support of the 
Trump Administration, the American Congress and the 
American people.
In 
this  year  of  historic  visits  and  historic 
anniversaries,  Israel  has  much  to  be  grateful  for. 
A  hundred  and  twenty  years  ago,  Theodor  Herzl 
convened  the  first  Zionist  Congress  to  transform 
our  tragic  past  into  a  brilliant  future  by  establishing 
the  Jewish  State.  One  hundred  years  ago,  the  Balfour 
Declaration  advanced  Herzl’s  vision  by  recognizing 
the  right  of  the  Jewish  people  to  a  national  home  in 
our ancestral homeland. Seventy years ago, the United 
Nations  further  advanced  that  vision  by  adopting 
resolution  181  (II),  supporting  the  establishment  of  a 
Jewish State. Fifty years ago, we reunited our eternal 
capital — Jerusalem — achieving a miraculous victory 
against those who sought to destroy our State. Theodor 
Herzl was our modern Moses, and his dream has come 
true.  We  have  returned  to  the  promised  land,  revived 
our language, ingathered our exiles and built a modern, 
thriving democracy.
17-29122
27/28
A/72/PV.4 
19/09/2017
Tomorrow  evening  Jews  around  the  world  will 
celebrate  Rosh  Hashanah,  the  beginning  of  our  new 
year. It is a time of reflection, and we look back with 
wonder  at  the  remarkable  and  miraculous  rebirth  of 
our nation. We look ahead with pride to the remarkable 
contributions Israel will continue to make to all nations. 
A  simple  look  around  will  reveal  those  contributions 
every  day  —  in  the  food  people  eat,  the  water  they 
drink, the medicines they take, the cars they drive, the 
cell phones they use and in so many other ways that are 
transforming our world. It can be seen in the smile of 
an African mother in a remote village who, thanks to 
an Israeli innovation, no longer must walk eight hours 
a day to bring water to her children. It can be seen in 
the  eyes  of  an  Arab  child  who  has  flown  to  Israel  to 
undergo a lifesaving heart operation. And it can be seen 
in the faces of the people in earthquake-stricken Haiti 
and Nepal, who are rescued from the rubble and given 
new life by Israeli doctors.
As the prophet Isaiah said: “I have made you a light 
unto the nations, to be My salvation to the ends of the 
Earth.”  Today,  2,700  years  after  Isaiah  spoke  those 
prophetic  words,  Israel  is  becoming  a  rising  power 
among the nations. And, at long last, its light is shining 
across  the  continents,  bringing  hope  and  salvation  to 
the ends of the Earth. Happy new year from Israel.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 3.20 p.m.
28/28 
17-29122
