United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
57th plenary meeting
Monday, 20 November 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c) Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/72/181)
List of candidates (A/72/182 and A/72/182/
Add.1)
Curricula vitae (A/72/183)
The  President:  I  would  like  to  apologize  for  the 
delay  in  convening  today’s  meeting,  which  is  owing 
to  the  necessity  of  coordinating  the  actions  of  both 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  I 
would  like  to  thank  all  members  for  their  patience 
and understanding.
As members are aware, there is still one vacancy on 
the Court to be filled.
I  would  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  I  have 
received  a  letter  dated  today,  Monday,  20  November 
2017, from the Permanent Representative of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 
United Nations. I understand that the President of the 
Security  Council  has  received  an  identical  letter.  The 
letter reads as follows:
“I have the honour to write to you with regard to 
the elections taking place in the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council  to  fill  the  fifth  position 
of  Judge  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  As 
you  are  aware,  following  seven  meetings  of  the 
Assembly and the Council on 9 and 13 November, 
at  which  several  rounds  of  voting  took  place,  the 
position 
remains  unfilled.  Judge  Christopher 
Greenwood obtained the required absolute majority 
of  votes  in  the  Security  Council,  while  Judge 
Dalveer  Bhandari  obtained  the  required  absolute 
majority  of  votes  in  the  General  Assembly.  The 
current deadlock is unlikely to be broken by further 
rounds of voting. We have therefore consulted our 
candidate,  Sir  Christopher  Greenwood,  who  has 
confirmed that his candidature for re-election to the 
International Court of Justice should be withdrawn.
“In  taking  this  step,  we  have  borne  in  mind 
the  close  relationship  that  the  United  Kingdom 
and  India  have  always  enjoyed  and  will  continue 
to  enjoy,  and  the  fact  that  both  candidates  fulfil 
the  requirements  for  election  and  have  already 
served  the  Court  diligently,  with  impartiality 
and  independence.  The  United  Kingdom  thanks 
Sir Christopher for his service and pays tribute to 
his outstanding contribution to the working of the 
Court and to the development of international law.
“As  you  are  also  aware,  the  Statute  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  provides,  in  its 
Article 12, that if, after the third meeting, one or 
more seats still remain unfilled, a joint conference 
may be formed any time, at the request of either the 
General Assembly or the Security Council, for the 
purpose  of  choosing  one  name  for  each  seat  still 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-39054 (E)
*1739054*
A/72/PV.57 
20/11/2017
vacant to submit to the General Assembly and the 
Security  Council  for  their  respective  acceptance. 
This  mechanism  has  not  been  used  in  relation  to 
an  election  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
However,  the  fact  that  it  has  not  been  used  does 
not mean that it should not be used when the need 
arises.  It  is  the  view  of  the  United  Kingdom  that 
this election would have been an ideal opportunity 
to  use  the  mechanism  envisaged  by  the  Court’s 
own  Statute  to  break  the  current  deadlock.  It  is 
also  the  United  Kingdom’s  view,  as  it  is  of  other 
delegations, that some thought needs to be given to 
this procedure before the next International Court 
of  Justice  election,  in  order  that  it  might  be  used 
when it is clearly needed.
to 
its  gratitude 
“The  Government  of  the  United  Kingdom 
expresses 
that 
supported  the  candidature  of  Judge  Greenwood 
both in the General Assembly and in the Security 
Council during these elections.”
Accordingly, 
the  name  of  Mr.  Christopher 
the  countries 
Greenwood will not appear on the ballot paper.
The  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  vote  with 
respect to the remaining vacancy, and we will maintain 
the  same  format  used  for  our  past  meetings  on  this 
item.  Accordingly,  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  will  proceed,  independently  of  one 
another, to fill the one remaining vacancy in the Court, 
in  accordance  with  Article  8  of  the  Statute  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
I should once again like to remind representatives 
“After 
that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,
the  President  has  announced 
the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order  in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting”.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers will now be distributed.
to 
Ballot  papers  will  be  given  only 
the 
representatives seated directly behind their countries’ 
nameplates. Representatives are requested to use only 
the ballot papers now being distributed. The candidate 
whose  name  appears  on  the  ballot  papers  is  the  only 
eligible  candidate.  I  would  like  to  remind  delegations 
that  only  the  name  of  the  one  candidate  should  be 
marked  with  a  cross.  Votes  may  be  cast  only  for  the 
name that appears on the ballot papers.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Aldoseri 
(Bahrain), Ms. Sánchez Rodríguez (Cuba), Mrs. Le 
Diffard (Hungary), Ms. Rheindrayani (Indonesia), 
Mr. McSwiney (Ireland) and Mr. Waweru (Kenya) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  3.45  p.m.  and 
resumed at 4 p.m.
The President: The result of the voting is as follows:
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
193
0
193
10
183
97
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari (India)  
183
Mr.  Dalveer  Bhandari  of  India  has  obtained  an 
absolute majority in the General Assembly.
I have communicated the results of the voting to the 
President of the Security Council.
I have also received a letter from the President of 
the Security Council, which reads:
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that,  at  the 
8110th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
20  November  2017,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
one  member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
for a term of office beginning on 6 February 2018, 
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari (India) obtained an absolute 
majority of votes.”
As a result of the independent voting in the General 
Assembly  and  in  the  Security  Council,  Mr.  Dalveer 
Bhandari  has  obtained  an  absolute  majority  in  both 
organs.  The  following  five  candidates  have  therefore 
obtained an absolute majority in both organs: Mr. Ronny 
Abraham, Mr. Dalveer Bhandari, Mr. Antônio Augusto 
Cançado Trindade, Mr. Nawaf Salam and Mr. Abdulqawi 
Ahmed  Yusuf.  They  are 
therefore  duly  elected 
members of the International Court of Justice to serve 
for a nine-year term commencing on 6 February 2018. 
I would like to take this opportunity to extend to them 
the  congratulations  of  the  Assembly  on  their  election 
and to thank the tellers for their assistance.
2/3 
17-39054
20/11/2017 
A/72/PV.57
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (c) 
of agenda item 113?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m.
17-39054
3/3
