United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
23rd plenary meeting
Monday, 25 September 2017, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Rodolfo  Nin  Novoa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr.  Nin  Novoa  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
As  we  greet  all  delegations,  we  also  welcome  the 
holding  of  the  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. Uruguay is convinced that today more than 
ever we need to strengthen these bodies of international 
coordination  and  leadership.  Failure  to  do  so  would 
be  to  abandon  humankind  to  transnational  powers 
that  escape  regulation  and  arbitrarily  impose  their 
rule,  notwithstanding  the  full  validity  of  national 
sovereignties, which, throughout the course of history, 
have  shown  great  longevity  and  bravely  responded  to 
challenges.
By  instituting  the  reforms  necessary  to  adapt  its 
structures  and  methodologies  to  a  time  that  is  very 
different from the one in which it was born, the United 
Nations  should  become  stronger,  and  the  General 
Assembly, its main body, should be given higher priority. 
This would be a worthwhile endeavour, given that the 
Assembly is and will continue to be the expression of 
a  universal  demos,  which  humankind  must  safeguard 
as  the  ideal  for  organizing  peaceful  coexistence  on 
a  global  scale,  where  all  States,  large  and  small,  are 
equally worthy and respected.
Uruguay’s  foreign  policy  has  focused  on  certain 
traditional  pillars  that  have  governed  its  actions 
throughout history, such as democracy, the rule of law, 
respect for and promotion of human rights, the defence 
of multilateralism, and the commitment to dialogue and 
peace.  These  are  the  principles  that  our  country  has 
historically defended and actively promoted. Uruguay 
has  made  these  pillars  its  State  policy,  supported 
by  all  its  political  parties  regardless  of  the  different 
ideological or programmatic orientations that alternate 
based on the rotation of power that is inherent to our 
idea of democracy. They represent a common heritage 
and  a  key  chapter  of  the  agreements  entered  into 
throughout our history that define our national identity.
Today, with the world facing a broad range of threats 
and challenges, Uruguay is resolved to make its voice 
heard and base its actions on the international stage on 
those cornerstones that have held up its architecture in a 
peaceful and democratic manner. The increase in armed 
conflicts,  characterized  by  unprecedented  violence, 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
the  expansion  in  the  trade  of  all  types  of  weapons, 
the  spread  of  terrorism,  cyberattacks,  hunger  and  the 
devastating  effects  of  climate  change  make  it  more 
than ever necessary for the international community to 
make a strong commitment to addressing them.
At  a  time  when  many  of  these  expressions  of 
violence and devastation are the result of global causes, 
it  would  be  injudicious  to  strive  to  impose  painful  or 
insufficiently  local  responses  to  such  challenges.  The 
international  community  must  rise  to  the  occasion, 
consolidate 
joint  action  and 
its  frameworks  for 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29852 (E)
*1729852*
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
strengthen global governance in order to resolve these 
serious problems.
Today, millions of people are directly affected by 
violence  and  armed  conflict.  Hundreds  of  thousands 
have  been  killed  and  thousands  of  others  injured, 
and  millions  of  displaced  persons  have  been  forced 
to  flee  their  homes  and  risk  their  lives  in  search  of 
peace. We should never consent to idly stand by when 
faced with such tragedy and devastation, in the midst 
of  an  indifference  out  of  which  we  are  shaken  only 
exceptionally,  when  a  memorable  image  moves  or 
strikes  us.  Such  an  image  —  and  this  is  the  greatest 
tragedy  —  may  be  sadly  representative  of  the  fate  of 
tens or hundreds of thousands of human beings whose 
lives  and  sad  destinies  we  will  never  know.  “Wasted 
lives”  was  how  Polish  philosopher  Zygmunt  Bauman, 
the father of “liquid modernity”, described them in his 
outstanding essay. It is only right to recall here that the 
world bade Bauman farewell earlier this year.
in 
Unfortunately, human trafficking networks, which 
take  advantage  of  human  despair  and  vulnerability, 
emerge 
those  contexts,  promising  people  a 
non-existent  future.  In  the  face  of  this  scourge,  all 
countries  gathered  here  must  redouble  their  efforts 
to  combat  all  forms  of  trafficking,  including  human 
trafficking.  All  States  must  cooperate  in  order  to  put 
an  end  to  all  such  heinous  practices,  which  denigrate 
their victims and strip them of their basic humanity in 
service of the interests of global criminal and terrorist 
networks, and in order to promote the growth and social 
development of nations.
Let  us  call  a  spade  a  spade:  inequality  remains 
the main cause of most of the difficulties and threats 
that  we  face.  We  all  know  that,  with  the  current 
advances  in  science  and  technology,  poverty  and 
hunger  are  unacceptable,  and  issues  stemming  from 
poor  organization  and  the  inequitable  distribution  of 
power and national and international resources are the 
cause of their unjustifiable persistence. For that reason, 
we  reiterate  that  the  rule  of  law  and  development  are 
inextricably linked and mutually reinforcing. Both are 
therefore  essential  to  sustainable  development  at  the 
national and international levels.
Uruguay  fully  endorse  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the commitment to leave 
no  one  behind.  It  pledges  its  unqualified  support  for 
that  commitment,  without  any  preconditions.  It  is  a 
commitment that can be undertaken in a straightforward 
manner  by  a  country  such  as  ours,  which  throughout 
its history has made the fight against abandonment one 
of the marks of its identity and succeeded in building, 
from  a  relatively  early  stage,  a  reasonably  integrated 
society  with  a  significant  degree  of  social  cohesion, 
although not without having to confront challenges and 
difficulties.
In  July,  at  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable  Development,  my  country,  for  the  second 
year in a row, submitted its voluntary national report on 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
involved carrying out a regular process of consultations 
and interinstitutional coordination with the participation 
of the Government, academia, civil society, the private 
sector  and  international  organizations,  with  respect 
to its implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals.
However, 
there 
is  an 
that 
issue  on 
is  even  more  vital 
the  United 
Nations  agenda 
for 
Uruguay  —  disarmament  as  a  prelude  to  peace.  The 
international community must be committed to actively 
seeking effective solutions to this global problem. The 
growing threat of terrorism and the challenge it poses 
to  the  international  community  as  a  whole,  the  risk 
of  the  potential  use  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
by  terrorist  groups,  and  the  acquisition  and  use  of 
conventional  weapons  and  the  links  of  such  weapons 
with  transnational  crime  have  made  the  failure  to 
disarm one of the greatest threats facing humankind. It 
is therefore a matter of deep concern. Controlling the 
international  arms  trade  is  an  urgent  necessity,  given 
that  trafficking  and  arms  deals  with  warring  parties 
in  conflicts  contribute  directly  to  the  suffering  and 
murder of civilians.
For that reason, the accession to and ratification of 
international instruments intended to protect civilians, 
such  as  the  historic  Arms  Trade  Treaty,  are  a  great 
contribution to that end. And let me repeat here in the 
General  Assembly  something  that  has  already  been 
mentioned  in  the  Security  Council.  According  to  the 
Stockholm  International  Peace  Research  Institute, 
74  per  cent  of  the  total  volume  of  arms  exports  in 
the  period  2011-2015  was  carried  out  specifically  by 
the five permanent members of the Security Council. 
Similarly, military spending in 2016 was $1.69 trillion, 
which was higher than in 2015.
We  should  ask  ourselves  how  many  needs  could 
have  been  met  had  those  funds  been  redirected  to 
2/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
the  economic  and  social  development  of  countries. 
The  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  delay 
in  disarmament  by  the  States  that  possess  them 
also  endanger  and 
the  world’s  stability 
and  human  security.  If  the  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons  overtakes  diplomacy, 
the  consequences 
will  be  devastating.  Diplomacy,  diplomacy  and  more 
diplomacy: that is the path that we must take.
threaten 
The  use  and  threat  of  use  of  nuclear  weapons 
constitute  a  crime  against  humankind  and  a  serious 
violation  of  international  law,  including  international 
humanitarian law, as well as of the Charter of the United 
Nations. The only guarantee against the use and threat 
of use of those weapons is their explicit prohibition and 
total  elimination.  Nevertheless,  far  from  abandoning 
their  weapons  programmes, 
the  nuclear  Powers 
continue  to  improve  and  actively  modernize  their 
nuclear  arsenals.  Data  from  specialized  organizations 
indicate  that  nine  countries  have  more  than  17,000 
nuclear weapons, of which approximately 2,000 are on 
high alert, ready to be launched at a moment’s notice.
Uruguay welcomes the success of the United Nations 
conference that negotiated a binding instrument to ban 
nuclear weapons and bring about their total elimination. 
It concluded with the adoption of the historic Treaty on 
the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  recently  opened 
to all States for signature, and to which Uruguay has 
just acceded. In that regard, we call on all countries to 
sign the instrument, which aims to ensure a dignified 
life  for  future  generations  and  avoid  a  humanitarian 
catastrophe.
As  part  of  its  concern  about  the  development 
of  nuclear  weapons,  Uruguay  expresses  its  strong 
condemnation  of  North  Korea’s  nuclear  tests  and 
ballistic-missile  launches  and  urges  that  country  to 
abandon its existing nuclear programmes in a complete, 
verifiable  and  irreversible  way,  putting  an  immediate 
end 
launches 
using  ballistic-missile  technology,  and  other  acts  of 
provocation.
to  all  related  activities, 
including 
In the same vein, we urge that country to respect 
the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and 
return  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons,  which  it  abandoned  in  2003,  and 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  safeguards 
regime.  However,  we  also  urge  all  countries,  in 
particular  the  great  United  States,  to  avoid  the 
verbal  escalations  that  have  always  preceded  major 
tragedies throughout history and weigh every word in 
a  responsible  manner,  eschewing  all  violent  rhetoric. 
A dynamic of antagonism often makes it impossible to 
stick to the facts.
In  addressing  the  3rd  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, our Secretary-
General,  Mr.  António  Guterres,  made  reference  to 
“sleepwalking our way to war”, inspired by the eloquent 
title recently used by the historian Christopher Clark to 
describe how human beings and nations marched into 
the tragedy of the First World War, dazed and confused 
by mutual misunderstandings and unheeded warnings. 
When  they  became  aware  of  the  outcome,  it  was  too 
late.
Just  three  months  before  ending  its  term  as  a 
non-permanent  member  of 
the  Security  Council, 
Uruguay wishes to emphasize once again that it is firmly 
convinced of the importance of focusing its efforts on 
protecting  civilian  populations  in  all  conflict  zones 
by  using  different  modalities,  through  peacekeeping 
operations and the delivery of humanitarian assistance, 
by, inter alia, protecting hospitals and medical personnel 
and denouncing flagrant violations of human rights.
In  the  current  context  of  crisis,  we  wish  to 
acknowledge the bravery and altruism of humanitarian 
personnel as they continue to assist, at the risk of their 
own  lives,  those  in  need  in  conflict  situations.  We 
understand  that  the  best  way  to  honour  humanitarian 
workers, who have saved thousands of lives in numerous 
settings,  is  to  devise  successful  policies  and  reach 
agreement within the framework of the United Nations 
to  bring  about  the  immediate  cessation  of  attacks 
on  civilians,  while  making  possible  the  delivery  of 
humanitarian assistance to those in conflict situations. 
We are concerned at the increasing number of attacks 
on and deliberate bombings of civilians, humanitarian 
workers  and  civil  infrastructure  such  as  hospitals, 
schools  and  markets,  all  of  which  are  serious  human 
rights violations.
The  ultimate  atrocity  is  when  defenceless  human 
beings  are  attacked  while  they  are  assisting  other 
defenceless human beings at the worst times and in the 
worst places. Not only should we emphatically condemn 
this,  but  we  should  also  adopt  resolutions  to  protect 
victims  and  bring  perpetrators  to  justice.  Uruguay 
once  again  calls  for  full  compliance  with  Security 
Council resolutions, especially resolution 2286 (2016), 
and the establishment of effective mechanisms for its 
17-29852
3/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
implementation.  I  wish  to  reiterate  that  this  kind  of 
attack  against  civilian  targets,  disguised  as  collateral 
attacks, should never be tolerated.
It  is  undeniable  that  we  are  experiencing  deep-
seated changes in the kinds of conflicts we are seeing. 
The increasing presence of terrorist organizations and 
non-State  actors  spreads  fear  among  populations  and 
disproportionately undermines the rights of women and 
children. History has shown us that there is a constant 
pattern  in  terms  of  conflicts  in  the  world,  regardless 
of region or religion. Women and girls are those who 
suffer the consequences most. War invades their lives, 
threatening their sense of security.
In this context, as an elected member of the Security 
Council,  a  country  with  a  long-standing  participation 
in  various  peacekeeping  operations  and  an  active 
troop contributor, Uruguay is intent on fighting sexual 
exploitation and abuse in armed conflicts. We are deeply 
committed  to  the  zero-tolerance  policy.  We  reiterate 
our support for this policy and are working very hard to 
prevent new cases of abuse and sexual exploitation in 
peacekeeping operations, with the understanding that a 
single case is one too many.
For more than 50 years, Uruguay knew what it was 
like to be outside the most important decision-making 
body in the world. That is why we believe it is vital that 
the issues taken up by the Security Council be public 
knowledge  for  all  Members  of  the  United  Nations. 
What  is  discussed  there  is  of  such  importance  that 
all States present here today should be aware of what 
goes  on  behind  closed  doors.  That  is  why  Uruguay 
will  continue  working  towards  more  transparent  and 
inclusive  working  methods  in  the  United  Nations 
within the framework of the Accountability, Coherence 
and Transparency group, as well as in other multilateral 
contexts.  As  a  signatory  to  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  Uruguay  emphasizes  its  commitment  to  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  while 
committing itself to working tirelessly to sustain those 
principles,  which  we  believe  are  vital  for  building  a 
safer and more prosperous future.
We  cannot  even  think  of  peace  in  the  world  if 
the  international  community  does  not  make  a  serious 
commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation. Any 
progress in disarmament and non-proliferation — be it 
serious commitments; gradual, effective, specific steps 
forward; or results — must be welcomed and celebrated 
as a tremendous achievement of the United Nations.
We wish to conclude our statement by highlighting 
the  overarching  historical  significance  of  the  peace 
process that has been gaining ground in Colombia and 
putting  an  end  to  the  armed  conflicts  that  divided  it, 
drowning it in pain and blood for many long decades. 
As Uruguayans, as Latin Americans and, in this case, 
as  the  then  President  of  the  Security  Council,  we  are 
pleased and proud to have made a modest contribution 
to the building of peace in Colombia. This is the best 
example we have when we talk about specific results.
It is our Latin America that we have made a region 
of peace today. The great note of hope that has sounded 
when  this  ceasefire  and  the  peace  agreement  were 
reached gives us the enthusiasm we need to take on the 
new and difficult missions in other parts of the world 
in which the way out often seems difficult to see. Latin 
America  has  single-mindedly  rejected  all  attempts  to 
resolve internal conflicts in Latin America, no matter 
how intense they are, through military intervention.
In the historical experience of our continent, such 
interventions have only left a trail of lasting violence, 
poverty  and  instability.  Latin  America  is  united 
as  a  block  against  interventionist  war-mongering 
endeavours that are neither rational nor prudent.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  once  again  our  emphatic 
rejection of the unfair blockade which, after 55 years, is 
still looming over our sister Republic of Cuba, and we 
express  our  sympathy  and  condolences  in  connection 
with the victims of the hurricanes and earthquakes that 
recently affected the region.
In  conclusion,  achieving  a  sustainable  planet  and 
a  decent  life  requires  the  effective  use  of  existing 
resources  so  that  we  can  live  in  peace  and  security 
and  our  legacy  can  be  a  habitable  world  for  future 
generations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Archbishop  Paul  Richard  Gallagher,  Secretary  for 
Relations with States of the Holy See.
Archbishop  Gallagher  (Holy  See):  On  behalf  of 
His Holiness Pope Francis, I am pleased to congratulate 
Your  Excellency  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  and 
to  commend  you  on  the  choice  of  the  theme  for  the 
general  debate:  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet.” 
It is a congenial topic for the Holy See. Pope Francis 
never tires of insisting on people first, especially those 
4/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
who  suffer,  those  who  are  excluded,  marginalized  or 
left behind.
The  Catholic  Church  expresses  the  meaning  of 
focusing  on  people  in  these  words:  the  joys  and  the 
hopes,  the  griefs  and  the  anxieties  of  the  men  and 
women of this age, especially those who are poor or in 
any way afflicted are the joys and hopes, the griefs and 
anxieties  of  the  followers  of  Christ,  because,  indeed, 
nothing genuinely human fails to raise an echo in our 
hearts. Focusing on people means not only protecting 
them from heinous crimes, but also placing them ahead 
of all national and geopolitical interests and fulfilling 
all the international political commitments undertaken 
throughout the history of the United Nations relating to 
social and economic development, starting with those 
set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.
Always  putting  people  first  means  protecting,  at 
every stage and in every circumstance, the dignity of 
the person, human rights, fundamental freedoms and, 
in a specific way, the rights to life and to freedom of 
religion,  from  which  all  other  rights  flow.  These  two 
human rights are the common foundation of the pillars 
of  peace,  security  and  integral  human  development. 
They  are  indivisible  from  those  other  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms relating to a dignified, spiritual, 
material and intellectual life for all citizens and their 
families, including, inter alia, the right to food, water, 
housing, a safe environment and work.
With the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  the 
international community committed itself to effective 
measures to eradicate the root causes of various evils 
and indignities that many people in the world are facing 
today. Moments before the Assembly adopted the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Pope  Francis 
defined the Agenda as an important sign of hope. One 
of the fundamental reasons for this hope is that world 
leaders had agreed on a plan of action for people, planet 
and prosperity and were determined to end poverty and 
hunger  in  all  their  forms  and  manifestations  and  to 
ensure that all human beings could fulfil their potential 
in dignity and equality and in a healthy environment. 
Their common resolve to leave no one behind articulates 
the core of this focus on people.
With regard to political commitments, Pope Francis 
has also urged the Organization and the international 
community  not  to  fall  into  what  could  be  called 
“declarationist  nominalism”.  Accordingly,  we  must 
guard against having soothed consciences and feeling 
good simply because we adopted the 2030 Agenda and 
other important international accords. On the contrary, 
we must not rest until our legal commitments have been 
truly fulfilled and our political promises kept when it 
comes to the lives of people. We must therefore take a 
hard  and  honest  look  at  the  principal  challenges  that 
the peoples of the world are facing today and will face 
tomorrow.  With  this  in  mind,  responsible  compliance 
with  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  and  the  Paris  Agreement,  as  well  as 
the implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
and  the  2030  Agenda,  could  be  a  way  of  focusing  all 
countries  and  international  organizations  on  working 
together for peace, setting aside the dangerous game of 
exchanging threats.
From  this  perspective,  the  Holy  See  sees  the 
forthcoming  reform  and  fine-tuning  of  the  United 
Nations  development 
system  as  an  additional 
opportunity  for  placing  people  and  their  needs  at  the 
centre  of  our  action.  In  so  doing  so,  as  Pope  Francis 
reminded us in this Hall two years ago, we must allow 
them  to  be  dignified  agents  of  their  own  destiny  (see 
A/70/PV.3).
Christian churches, in particular the Orthodox and 
Catholic Churches, celebrate together on 1 September 
the  World  Day  of  Prayer  for  the  Care  of  Creation  to 
heighten public awareness of their shared responsibility 
to  take  care  of  our  common  home  and  contribute  to 
reversing  environmental  degradation.  To  mark  the 
World  Day  of  Prayer  this  year,  Pope  Francis  and  the 
Ecumenical  Patriarch  Bartholomew  I  released  a  joint 
message affirming that the Earth was entrusted to us 
as a sublime gift and legacy for which all of us share 
responsibility.  Our  human  dignity  and  welfare  are 
deeply connected to our care for the whole of creation.
finds 
particular urgency before the deteriorating conditions 
of  our  common  home  and  an  often  purely  utilitarian 
world  view  concerning  the  things  that  surround  us. 
Any  harm  done  to  the  environment  is  harm  done 
to  humankind  today  and  tomorrow.  Therefore,  the 
misuse  and  destruction  of  the  environment  are  also 
accompanied  by  a  relentless  process  of  exclusion, 
given that the deterioration of the planet affects, first 
and foremost, the many billions trapped in poverty or 
in conditions of environmental stress across the globe. 
This dramatic reality of exclusion and inequality must 
lead all of us to take stock of our shared and individual 
responsible  stewardship 
This  call 
for 
17-29852
5/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
responsibilities. The pressing call and challenge to care 
for creation invite all humankind to work unhesitatingly 
towards sustainable and integral development.
Improving  climate  conditions  and  the  natural 
environment is possible only if we accept the need to 
change  the  way  we  perceive  the  world  and  thus  our 
way  of  relating  to  it.  Although  our  common  home  is 
falling into serious disrepair, we can reverse the trend 
of environmental degradation. Indeed, as Pope Francis 
emphasized in his encyclical Laudato si’, while we are 
capable  of  the  worst,  we  are  also  capable  of  the  best, 
rising  above  ourselves,  choosing  again  what  is  good 
and making a new start.
The duty to prevent wars and violent conflicts is an 
essential component of the responsibility to protect. The 
Holy See therefore appreciates the Secretary-General’s 
explicit and strong emphasis on preventive diplomacy 
and concurs with his assessment that the most serious 
shortcoming  of  the  entire  international  community 
is  the  frequent  inability  to  prevent  crises.  Prevention 
requires, first of all, restoring faith in the capacity of 
humankind  for  dialogue.  An  environment  of  trust  is 
urgently needed. All countries should take a decisive and 
urgent step back from the present escalation of military 
preparations. The largest countries and those that have 
a stronger tradition of respecting human rights should 
be the first to perform generous actions of pacification. 
All diplomatic and political means of mediation should 
be engaged in order to avoid the unspeakable.
Allow me to recall the appeal of Pope Pius XII to 
all nations on 24 August 1939, on the eve of the Second 
World War:
“The  way  of  justice  is  promoted  by  the  strength 
of  reason  and  not  with  the  force  of  arms...  The 
danger is imminent, but there is still time. Nothing 
is  lost  with  peace.  With  war,  everything  is  lost. 
May  people  come  back  to  understand  each  other 
and take up again negotiations. By negotiating with 
good will and with respect for mutual rights, they 
will  realize  that  sincere  and  active  negotiations 
never preclude an honourable success.”
In such a context, I would like to recall that a dozen 
years  have  passed  since  the  historica  gathering  of 
world leaders in this Hall for the 2005 World Summit. 
Focusing on people, the Heads of State and Government 
of the Members of the Organization reached consensus 
on  the  responsibility  to  protect  populations  from 
genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes 
against  humanity.  There  is  no  doubt  that  a  collective 
political  consensus  is  necessary,  but  a  reflection  on 
Articles  2,  paragraph  7  and  39  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations is also needed.
The  Holy  See  therefore  supports  all  initiatives 
designed  to  facilitate  observing  obligations  under  the 
responsibility  to  protect,  but  it  would  like  to  remind 
the international community once again that without a 
legal framework or fair respect of the international rule 
of law, the application of the principle is unfeasible.
The  war  in  Yemen  is  causing  a  humanitarian 
catastrophe  of  apocalyptic  proportions.  The  tragedy 
stemming  from  the  war  in  Syria  continues  to  grow 
every day. Involved stakeholders should sit at the United 
Nations  negotiating  table  with  the  sole  precondition 
that human rights law and principles be respected and 
that  humanitarian  access  and  assistance  be  allowed. 
At the same time, States, especially those that at some 
time in recent history have been directly or indirectly 
involved  in  the  conflict,  must  undertake  all  means  to 
reach a ceasefire, which is a first step towards peace.
The  Holy  See  is  particularly  concerned  about  the 
political  divisions  and  instability  in  Venezuela  and 
its  humanitarian  crisis.  In  addition,  the  international 
community  must  address  the  complex  political  and 
diplomatic  tensions  in  the  Arabian  peninsula,  as  well 
as the violence and the various humanitarian situations 
in  the  Middle  East.  We  must  all  strive  for  an  end  to 
violence  and  for  reaching  a  solution  that  can  enable 
both  Palestinians  and  Israelis  alike  to  live  at  last  in 
peace  within  clearly  established  and  internationally 
recognized  borders, 
two-
State solution.
implementing 
thus 
the 
The  ongoing  violence  and 
intense  political 
tension  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
necessitate  an  urgent  and  efficient  commitment  from 
all  parties  to  finding  a  solution  to  the  constitutional 
crisis. Furthermore, there is a need for greater public 
awareness  of  certain  ongoing  conflict  situations  with 
a  view  to  reaching  negotiated  and  peaceful  solutions 
to  them,  especially  in  Ukraine,  South  Sudan  and  the 
Central African Republic, inter alia.
Along the same lines, as Pope Francis has stated, 
there is
“another  kind  of  conflict  that  is  not  always  so 
explicit and yet is silently killing millions of people. 
6/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
Many of our societies experience a different kind of 
war as a result of the drug trade” (A/70/PV.3, p. 6).
The  drug  trade  has  joined  other  forms  of  corruption 
and has
“penetrated  into  every  level  of  life  —  social, 
political, military, artistic and religious — and in 
many  cases  has  given  rise  to  a  parallel  structure 
that  threatens  the  credibility  of  our  institutions”
(ibid).
In a similar vein, the Holy See is concerned with 
the  challenges  of  fighting  corruption  and  terrorism 
and  with  promoting  stable  peace  and  a  sustainable 
development  in  many  countries  of  the  world.  The 
Holy See wishes to stress again that terrorism can be 
countered only by more cohesive and coherent measures 
at the international level: as terror knows no border, the 
international community must act as a whole.
The full protection of people is possible only with 
a  durable  peace.  However,  the  protection  of  civilian 
populations must also be ensured during times of war 
The recent gangrenous conflicts both weaken and reveal 
the shortcomings of the international order and cause 
inexplicable suffering, massive displacements, blatant 
violations of universal human rights and fundamental 
freedoms and extreme poverty. There is no worse man-
made  crisis  than  violent  conflicts.  They  drive  people 
forcibly to migrate or become refugees. They engender 
mass atrocities and crimes against humanity. Indeed, as 
Pope Francis told the Assembly, “War is the negation of 
all rights” (ibid., p. 5).
The  lamentable  situation  of  the  hundreds  of 
millions  of  migrants  and  refugees  fleeing  from  wars, 
persecution,  natural  disasters  and  extreme  poverty, 
particularly 
in  Nigeria,  Myanmar,  Somalia  and 
countries  of  the  sub-Saharan  region,  inter  alia,  is  a 
great responsibility for all without exception.
Our  common  humanity  compels  us  all,  as  Pope 
Francis has proposed, to welcome, protect, promote and 
integrate those who flee from such adverse conditions. 
These  four  actions  are  based  on  the  proposition  that 
migrants, despite many real or imagined challenges, are 
good for society, and on the principle of solidarity with 
those  in  need.  In  particular,  they  express  our  shared 
responsibility  towards  the  victims  of  the  genocide, 
war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against 
humanity that the international community has failed 
to prevent or stop, in blatant neglect of the principles of 
international law.
that 
The Holy See will vigorously work to see these four 
concepts enshrined and reflected in the future Global 
Compact  for  Safe,  Orderly  and  Regular  Migration 
and  the  Global  Compact  on  Refugees.  The  Holy  See 
believes 
these  United  Nations-led  processes 
offer  a  unique  opportunity  to  respond  collectively  to 
challenges through international cooperation and shared 
responsibility.  The  Holy  See  urges  the  international 
community to overcome the current political impasse 
and  go  beyond  the  negative  sentiments  that  we  face 
in  opening  safe,  orderly  and  regular  pathways  for 
migration.  In  order  to  achieve  the  desired  outcome, 
the contribution of political communities, civil society 
and all stakeholders is indispensable, each according to 
their respective responsibilities.
While  some  migrants  may  be  motivated  by  the 
legitimate  desire  to  improve  their  already  acceptable 
situations,  most  would  likely  choose  not  to  migrate 
if  they  enjoyed  peace  and  economic  security  in  their 
home  countries.  It  is  a  basic  human  right  to  live  in 
one’s  own  country,  but  that  right  is  effective  only  if 
the  root  causes  that  force  people  to  migrate,  such  as 
wars  and  conflicts,  mass  atrocities  and  persecutions, 
and  dire  economic  and  environmental  hardships,  are 
met with adequate solutions. Indeed, if basic necessary 
conditions  were  met,  people  would  not  feel  forced  to 
leave  their  homes,  making  migration  manageable  and 
voluntary.  The  focus  in  negotiating  the  Compacts 
therefore should not be limited to stopping migrants in 
their tracks or confining refugees to camps, but, instead, 
it should address the causes that deprive them of living 
with  dignity  and  force  them  to  make  life-threatening 
journeys.  This  should  be  our  goal,  and  it  should  be  a 
key part of the Global Compact for Migration.
Another  great  challenge  facing  the  international 
community  is  trafficking  in  persons.  At  the  root  of 
this and other contemporary forms of slavery are wars 
and  conflicts,  extreme  poverty,  underdevelopment 
and  exclusion,  lack  of  education  or  employment 
opportunities 
catastrophes. 
But  we  ought  to  recognize  that  on  the  demand  side 
of  such  criminal  trafficking  there  is  also  a  crass 
selfishness  that  reaches  the  unimaginable  heights  of 
moral irresponsibility in the case of the trafficking of 
children, organs, tissues and embryos and in so-called 
transplant  tourism.  Such  execrable  forms  of  trade 
are  exacerbated  by  corruption  on  the  part  of  public 
environmental 
and 
17-29852
7/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
officials  and  common  people  willing  to  do  anything 
for  financial  gain.  Indeed,  the  migration  and  refugee 
crises are today facilitating an increase in trafficking 
in persons and other contemporary forms of slavery.
The  Holy  See  and  the  Catholic  Church  have  long 
spoken  out  against  the  evil  of  trafficking  in  persons 
and, through the dedicated work of so many individuals 
and  institutions,  have  sought  to  fight  its  root  causes, 
care for the victims, raise awareness about this scourge 
and work with anyone and everyone to try to eliminate 
it. In an address on 10 April 2014, at the International 
Conference  on  Combating  Human  Trafficking,  Pope 
Francis called trafficking in persons an “open wound 
on  the  body  of  contemporary  society”  and  at  the 
signing of the Universal Declaration Against Slavery, 
on 2 December 2014, he termed it an “atrocious scourge 
that is present throughout the world on a broad scale”.
At the heart of this evil is the utter loss of respect 
for  human  dignity  and  the  total  indifference  to  the 
sufferings  of  fellow  human  beings.  Modern  slavery 
happens  when  people  are  treated  as  objects,  which 
leads  to  their  being  deceived,  raped,  often  sold  and 
resold for various purposes, and in the end either killed 
or left devastated in mind and body, only to be finally 
thrown away or abandoned. By refocusing its attention 
on people and putting people first in its overall work, 
the  Organization  should  unerringly  support  the  fight 
against trafficking in persons and other contemporary 
forms of slavery.
Pope  Francis  calls  on  everyone,  and  especially 
the  competent  authorities,  to  address  this  heinous 
crime  through  effective  legal  instruments,  punish 
those  who  benefit  from  it,  assist  in  the  healing  and 
the  reintegration  of  its  victims  and  eradicate  its  root 
causes. Our response must be commensurate with this 
great evil of our time.
The world is awash in all types of weapons, from 
nuclear weapons to small arms and light weapons. The 
arms  trade,  both  licit  and  illicit,  keeps  on  growing. 
The proliferation of arms, including weapons of mass 
destruction, among terrorist groups and other non-State 
actors  has  become  a  real  danger.  These  trends  are 
deeply worrying, but more disturbing still is the deep 
chasm that separates commitments made from actions 
taken  in  the  field  of  disarmament  and  arms  control. 
While  everyone  condemns  the  grave  effects  of  arms 
proliferation, nothing has substantially changed on the 
ground, because, as Pope Francis has observed,
“[W]e say the words ‘no more war!’, but at the same 
time we manufacture weapons and sell them ... to 
those who are at war with one another”.
This  must  change.  The  proliferation  of  weapons 
simply  aggravates  situations  of  conflict  and  results 
in  unimaginable  human  suffering  and  material  costs, 
profoundly  undermining  development,  human  rights 
and  the  search  for  lasting  peace.  Without  greater 
international  and  regional  cooperation,  especially 
among  weapon-producing  States,  in  terms  of  strictly 
controlling and limiting the production and movement 
of weapons, a world free of wars and violent conflicts 
will surely remain an illusion.
When  Pope  Francis  addressed 
the  General 
Assembly two years ago today, he drew attention to the 
urgent need to
“work hard for a world free of nuclear weapons by 
implementing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  in  letter  and  in  spirit,  until 
such instruments are totally banned” (ibid., p. 5).
In  his  2017  World  Day  of  Peace  Message,  Pope 
Francis  once  again  made  a  plea  for  disarmament  and 
for  the  prohibition  and  abolition  of  nuclear  weapons. 
Unfortunately,  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons 
continues  to  increase  international  tensions,  as  can 
be  seen  in  the  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula. 
As  history  shows,  regional  and  bilateral  treaties  on 
the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  have  been 
effective in establishing whole regions free from these 
weapons.  It  therefore  seems  all  the  more  urgent  that 
we  invest  in  creating  those  circumstances  that  would 
facilitate  the  crafting  of  new  bilateral  and  regional 
treaties. 
The  Holy  See  has  signed  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  has  already 
deposited its ratification document because it believes 
that it is an important contribution to the overall effort 
towards  total  and  complete  nuclear  non-proliferation 
and disarmament, that it represents progress toward the 
fulfilment of the commitment of the States parties to the 
Treaty to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective 
measures relating to the cessation of the nuclear arms 
race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament, and 
a  step  towards  negotiating  a  general  and  complete 
disarmament  under  strict  and  effective  international 
control. While much remains to be done for the Treaty 
on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  truly  make 
a  difference  and  fulfil  its  full  promise,  the  Holy  See 
8/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
believes that it is one more blow on the anvil towards 
the fulfilment of the prophecy of Isaiah: 
“They  shall  beat  their  swords  into  ploughshares 
and  their  spears  into  pruning  hooks;  one  nation 
shall not raise the sword against another, nor shall 
they train for war again.”
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. António Gumende, Chair of the Delegation of the 
Republic of Mozambique.
Mr.  Gumende  (Mozambique):  I  have  the  honour 
to  address  the  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly on behalf of His Excellency Mr. Filipe Jacinto 
Nyusi,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Mozambique, 
who  could  not  attend  this  gathering  owing  to  other 
commitments  at  home.  Allow  me  therefore  to  start 
by  conveying  President  Nyusi’s  good  wishes  for  a 
successful session of the Assembly, which is the highest 
forum for global political and diplomatic dialogue.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  join  the 
speakers who preceded me in congratulating you, Sir, 
on your unanimous election to preside over the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session.  I  assure  you 
of the full commitment of Mozambique to contributing 
to  the  realization  of  the  goals  we  have  all  envisaged 
to  achieve  during  this  important  session.  We  trust 
that your gifted leadership and diplomatic experience 
will add value to our endeavours and contribute to the 
success of the work of this session. 
I  wish  equally  to  congratulate  your  predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson  of  Fiji,  for  his 
stewardship  and  commitment  to  fulfilling  the  agenda 
at the last session of the General Assembly.
A  special  word  of  appreciation  goes  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres,  the  Secretary-
General, for the vision and leadership he has displayed 
in  this,  his  first  year  in  office.  We  believe  that  he  is 
steering the Organization onto the right path in order 
to enhance its efficiency and effectiveness as it serves 
us,  the  Member  States,  in  our  quest  to  deliver  on  the 
ambitious  goals  we  have  set  for  our  peoples.  Only  a 
strong  and  vibrant  United  Nations  system  can  ensure 
that  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  its  goals  will  deliver  societies  that  are  more 
inclusive,  peaceful  and  prosperous  than  ever,  without 
compromising the very existence of our planet.
Two  years  after  we  pledged  our  commitment  to 
the Sustainable Development Goals, the world remains 
confronted with multiple and complex challenges that 
threaten  to  constrain  the  gains  we  made  in  fostering 
global  peace  and  stability,  stall  and  reverse  the 
advances made in fostering social and economic well-
being of our peoples, and cause irreversible damage to 
our planet. We therefore welcome the theme chosen for 
this session by the President of the General Assembly, 
namely, “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a 
decent life for all on a sustainable planet”, as it allows 
this  body  to  reflect  in  a  timely  manner  on  how  best 
to address the challenges before us. This reflection in 
a multilateral forum such as the General Assembly is 
essential  if  we  are  to  coordinate  and  consolidate  our 
approaches as we strive individually and collectively to 
deliver on the 2030 Agenda. 
The  renewed  focus  on  people  should  serve  as  a 
universal  impetus  for  all  the  development  actors  to 
translate into practice actions that promote peace and 
the well-being of all humankind. It is worth recalling 
that  our  resolve  is  to  make  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  a  framework  that  brings 
together the collective will to transform people’s lives 
in a sustainable way by lifting them from poverty and 
promoting  human  dignity  without  neglecting  peace, 
which is a critical factor in the attainment of sustainable 
development, based on the interplay of the economic, 
social and environmental pillars.
As  we  strive  to  accomplish  these  goals,  we  are 
challenged  to  find  the  ways  and  means  to  honour 
the  commitments  undertaken  in  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda,  the  Sendai  Framework  for  Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change. Only joint and complementary efforts in those 
three  domains  will  enable  us  to  build  the  necessary 
resilience  at  the  national,  regional  and  international 
levels commensurate with the challenges before us and 
in line with our aspiration of leaving no country behind.
The  challenges  we  faced  and  the  experiences  we 
gained in the implementation of other globally agreed 
development  goals  in  the  past  underline  the  need  for 
greater commitment from our development partners to 
scale  up  and  honour  their  assistance  and  for  funding 
pledges made to support climate resilience, mitigation 
and  adaptation,  as  well  as  disaster-prevention  efforts 
in developing countries. This support is of paramount 
importance 
the  effects  of  climate 
variability,  whose  devastating  effects  have  been  laid 
bare in the last two months in several States Members 
of this body. 
to  mitigating 
17-29852
9/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
Furthermore,  it  is  also  clear  that  a  robust  and 
efficient United Nations system, together with a strong 
partnership between the Organization and the regional 
bodies, can play a catalytic role in accelerating national 
development  and  strengthening  democratic  political 
systems and institutions that can lead to more inclusive 
and  peaceful  societies.  In  that  vein,  we  support  the 
ongoing efforts undertaken by the Secretary-General to 
reform and reposition the United Nations development 
system with a view to making it more responsive to the 
development needs of its Members.
The overwhelming challenges of our times require 
bold  and  determined  political  will  to  achieve  the 
results we seek. Mozambique reaffirms its unequivocal 
commitment  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  since  focusing  on  people  has  always 
been at the core of Mozambique’s national development 
agenda.  Accordingly,  we  have  aligned  our  national 
development  agenda  to  include  the  three  dimensions 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
which  are  now  reflected  in  the  five  pillars  of  our 
national five-year plan, namely, consolidating national 
unity,  peace  and  sovereignty;  developing  human  and 
social  capital;  promoting  employment,  productivity 
and  competitiveness;  developing  economic  and 
social  infrastructures;  and  ensuring  sustainable  and 
transparent  management  of  natural  resources  and  the 
environment.
group 
that 
reference 
Mozambique  has  created  a  multi-stakeholder 
national 
encompasses 
Government,  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and 
international cooperation partners for the management 
of the Sustainable Development Goals and is promoting 
capacity-building  for  its  implementation,  monitoring 
and  evaluation.  In  the  effort  to  consolidate  national 
unity, peace and sovereignty, our focus on people leads 
us  to  strive  to  ensure  that  lasting  peace  and  stability 
is  a  reality  to  all  Mozambicans.  Durable  peace  and 
stability  therefore  ranks  as  an  overarching  priority 
in our national agenda, as it is a crucial factor for the 
development and promotion of lasting human security 
in the broadest sense. Accordingly, the Government of 
Mozambique, under the leadership of President Filipe 
Jacinto  Nyusi,  is  striving  for  an  inclusive  dialogue 
with  all  political  actors  and  civil  society  through 
both  formal  and  informal  mechanisms,  including  the 
Parliament.  This  inclusive  approach  is  also  used  to 
engage  Mozambicans  in  the  conceptualization  and 
implementation of the national development agenda. 
Furthermore,  our  focus  on  people  envisages  not 
leaving  anyone  behind,  which  is  one  of  the  guiding 
precepts of our universal agenda. Therefore, particular 
attention is given to policies and strategies aimed at the 
protection and the full enjoyment of human rights, the 
promotion of gender equality and equity as well as the 
empowerment of women and youth, who constitute the 
majority of our people. Mozambique believes that our 
focus on people, peace, a decent life and a sustainable 
planet also requires a regional dimension, particularly 
in the context of a globalized world. 
stability, 
We are therefore encouraged by the contributions 
that regional and international multilateral mechanisms 
have  made  to  prevent  and  manage  conflicts  and 
to  promote  peace  and 
in  particular 
the  Southern  African  Development 
those  under 
Community, the African Union and the Community of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries, to which we are proud 
to  belong.  We  believe  that  mechanisms  that  promote 
peace  and  prosperity  should  also  constitute  a  strong 
platform of action aimed at fostering dialogue among 
civilizations, an unquestionable tool in the promotion 
of  a  culture  of  tolerance,  peaceful  coexistence  and  a 
sustainable  world.  We  pledge  to  continue  to  play  our 
role in these endeavours.
Our  resolve  to  focus  on  people  entails  that  we 
address with a sense of urgency the root causes of the 
increase in unregulated migration and the massive flows 
of refugees, two dimensions of the human crises that we 
are confronted with in modern times. This regrettable 
reality is in great part a consequence of a succession of 
unresolved  crises  or  poorly  settled  conflict  situations 
in relation to which the international community bears 
a responsibility. In that connection, we risk achieving 
an  ineffective  and  fragile  peace  if  the  international 
community remains focused on short-term and ad hoc 
measures that leave scope for the recurrence of the same 
intractable problems at a later stage. The international 
community  should  come  together  to  redouble  efforts 
and to build consensus to prevent the senseless loss of 
lives.  We  need  to  adopt  measures  to  reduce  people’s 
vulnerabilities, complemented by actions that address 
the  complex  and  structural  causes  of  these  mass 
movements, such as conflicts and political, social and 
economic exclusion.
A  focus  on  people  on  a  sustainable  planet  also 
requires  urgent  attention  to  climate  change.  Today 
more  than  ever  before,  the  challenges  posed  by  the 
adverse impact of climate change are noticeable. Every 
10/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
day  we  are  confronted  by  the  destructive  impact  of 
climate  change,  challenging  those  who  continue  to 
harbour  doubts  about  the  effects  of  human  activities 
on  the  environment  and  on  the  climate.  The  recent 
devastating effects of the hurricanes, the mudslides and 
the earthquake that affected millions of people in the 
Caribbean region, the United States of America, Sierra 
Leone and Mexico are vivid reminders of the scale of 
the natural disaster threats we face. 
I  would  like  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  convey 
to  the  affected  people  and  countries  a  message  of 
solidarity and sympathy on behalf of the people and the 
Government of Mozambique. The great human losses 
and the destruction of infrastructure as a result of the 
scale  and  ferocity  of  these  storms  prove  once  again 
that,  beyond  our  convictions,  we  need  to  reflect  and 
to act as a common front to face the menaces arising 
from  climatic  change.  To  that  end,  we  reaffirm  the 
importance of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
as  an  instrument  to  strengthen  the  much-needed 
partnerships for adaptation and mitigation measures.
The  positive  dynamics  generated  by  the  major 
development  commitments  made  by  the  international 
community  in  2015  have  been  overshadowed  by  the 
worrying signs of the eruption of political instability, the 
prevailing inter- and intra-State conflicts, particularly 
in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  the  rising  tensions  in 
the  Korean  peninsula,  as  well  as  by  the  recurrence 
of  acts  of  terrorism  and  of  violent  extremism.  These 
challenges to peace and stability threaten to reverse the 
development  gains  registered  over  the  recent  decades 
and to hinder our development efforts as we chart the 
way forward. 
Therefore, 
the  ongoing 
peace  initiatives  as  well  as  the  measures  to  curb  the 
recruitment  and  finance  of  terrorist  groups  will 
result  in  opportunities  to  further  promote  peace  and 
development,  as  well  as  to  strengthen  human  rights 
and  to  build  more  inclusive  societies.  Only  through 
constructive dialogue and peaceful means and solutions 
can we secure durable peace and stability in our world. 
To that end, we would like to emphasize the importance 
of strong democratic institutions at the national level, 
the impact of regional cooperation and the role of the 
United Nations.
it 
is  our  hope 
that 
Mr.  Perera  (Sri  Lanka),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
As we gather in this great Hall, the world is once 
again  facing  the  threat  of  the  dangers  posed  by  the 
proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  which  have  become 
the  most  dangerous  existential  threat  that  humankind 
faces in the twenty-first century. As a country with a 
Constitution that values the principle of the universal 
disarmament  of  all  States  and  negotiated  solutions  to 
international  conflicts,  as  well  as  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear energy, Mozambique notes with great concern 
the  escalation  of  tension  and  the  risk  of  nuclear 
confrontation that is unfolding on the Korean peninsula. 
The catastrophic impact of a nuclear conflict demands 
a more restrained approach based on dialogue, skilful 
diplomacy  and  the  political  will  to  de-escalate  and 
to  fully  comply  with  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  More  than  anything  else,  the  resolutions 
signal our collective disapproval of the course of events 
in that part of the world.
The  lack  of  progress  in  the  decolonization  of 
Western Sahara, the sole African country still to exercise 
the right to self-determination, continues to be a cause 
for grave concern to Mozambique. Regrettably, all the 
efforts  deployed  by  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union  and  other  actors  to  bring  about  an  accepted 
settlement  aiming  to  grant  the  people  of  Western 
Sahara their inalienable right to self-determination and 
independence has not yielded results. We would like to 
seize this opportunity to call upon the Security Council, 
the General Assembly and the international community 
to  exercise  their  responsibility  by  implementing  their 
own  resolutions,  particularly  regarding  the  principle 
of self-determination and right of freedom, as well as 
to  support  the  African  Union  and  its  Special  Envoy 
to  Western  Sahara,  Mr.  Joaquim  Chissano,  former 
President of Mozambique.
The  principle  of  self-determination  and  the  right 
to freedom should also be a reality for the Palestinian 
people.  To  that  end,  it  is  imperative  that  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  be  implemented.  We 
believe that the solution relies on the two-State principle 
of Palestine and Israel coexisting side by side, in peace 
and security.
Mozambique  has  followed  with  great  interest  the 
efforts  of  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America  to 
stabilize  the  diplomatic  relations  between  these  two 
neighbouring  countries,  an  important  step  towards 
the  normalization  of  bilateral  relations  and  bringing 
to  an  end  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
17-29852
11/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
against Cuba. In that context, we note with concern the 
latest developments and appeal to the United States of 
America to put an end to the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo,  for  it  hinders  the  socioeconomic 
development of Cuba and the Cuban people. Therefore, 
Mozambique  once  again  associates  itself  with  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  countries  in  this  Hall  to 
demand  the  immediate  termination  of  this  unilateral 
coercive measure.
We  live  in  a  world  confronted  by  challenges  that 
demand global responses. The relevance of the United 
Nations,  the  lodestar  of  multilateralism,  over  the 
past 72 years of its existence has always rested in its 
ability  to  reform  and  reinvent  itself  to  respond  more 
suitably to the challenges of the continuously changing 
world that it serves. Therefore, Mozambique supports 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  pursue  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  system  in  order  to  make  it  fit  for 
purpose,  and  commends  his  demonstrated  desire  to 
fully  consult  and  seek  consent  of  the  United  Nations 
membership at each stage of the process.
In  addition  to  the  ongoing  reforms,  we  also  need 
to urgently accelerate Security Council reform, another 
element that will contribute to reaffirming the role of 
the United Nations in the quest for sustainable solutions 
to the peace and security challenges facing humankind. 
The difficulties stemming from the lack of consensus 
among  members  to  initiate  text-based  negotiations  to 
complete the reform of the Security Council constrain 
our ability to open a new window of opportunity that 
would enhance the credibility of the organ by making 
it  more  representative  of  the  current  reality.  The 
Security  Council  is  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars  of 
the success of the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
like 
I  would 
to  conclude  by  reiterating 
the 
unconditional  commitment  of  the  Government  of 
Mozambique  to  continuing  to  engage,  in  partnership 
with  the  United  Nations  and  fellow  Member  States, 
in  the  search  of  sustainable  solutions  to  the  problems 
that  affect  the  humanity.  History  has  shown  us  that 
humankind thrives best when we, the peoples, are able 
to share, collaborate, cooperate, engage in dialogue and 
care.
The General Assembly will always be the platform 
where  we  renew  our  commitment  and  rededicate 
ourselves  to  the  noble  ideals  on  which  this  great 
Organization  was  founded  —  to  save  succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  to  promote 
social  progress  and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger 
freedom.  Let  us  all  stay  loyal  to  these  lofty  ideals 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
work together to transform our world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Ismael Abraão Gaspar Martins, Chair 
of the Delegation of the Republic of Angola.
Mr.  Martins 
(Angola):  On  behalf  of 
the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Angola,  allow  me  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  having  been 
elected  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second session and to assure him of Angola’s 
full  support  in  the  fulfilment  of  his  mission,  so  that 
he may successfully provide us with the leadership we 
need at this time.
I also congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson, President of 
the Assembly at its seventy-first session, on the capable 
manner in which he conducted the work of the previous 
session; and Mr. António Guterres on his appointment 
to  the  post  of  Secretary-General.  Allow  me  to  wish 
Mr. Guterres every success in his mandate and assure 
him of the full support and cooperation of Angola.
As has been reiterated several times in this forum, 
peace  and  security  are  fundamental  premises  for 
stability, sustainable development, democracy and the 
promotion of and respect for human rights. The theme 
chosen for this session — “Focusing on people: Striving 
for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet”  —  is  timely  and  compels  us  to  collectively 
reflect on the actions of the United Nations to solve the 
main problems affecting humankind.
We  need  an  Organization  capable  of  promoting 
international  peace  and  security  by  acting  swiftly  to 
prevent  potential  conflict  situations,  improving  the 
global strategy to combat international terrorism, and 
placing economic and social development issues at the 
centre of its action. In this context, we appreciate the 
relevance  of  the  four  axes  defined  in  the  agenda  of 
this  session,  namely,  the  prevention  and  mediation  of 
conflicts to achieve sustainable peace, the promotion of 
human rights, the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, and the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change.
We  reiterate  Angola’s  support  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposals  for  reforms  with  a  view  to 
revitalizing  and  rationalizing  the  resources  of  the 
12/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
Organization.  The  United  Nations  should  act  as  the 
first instance in the promotion of peace diplomacy at 
the global level.
Its  current  composition 
We  also  reiterate  the  need  to  reform  the  Security 
Council  in  order  to  have  it  reflect  the  reality  of  the 
contemporary  world. 
is 
outdated  and  needs  to  be  urgently  reformed.  In  line 
with the African position represented in the Ezulwini 
Consensus,  Angola  reiterates  the  need  to  increase 
the  number  of  permanent  members  to  ensure  a  fair 
geographical  balance.  It  is  unfair  that  the  African 
continent,  which  accounts  for  almost  40  per  cent 
of  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  is  not 
represented among the permanent members in the main 
organ  in  charge  of  maintaining  peace  and  security  in 
the world.
Angola underlines the importance of multilateralism 
in solving global problems, in accordance with the logic 
of  shared  responsibility  and  benefits,  in  recognition 
of  the  legitimate  interests  of  all  and  in  concertation 
towards  realistic  solutions.  Angola’s  attachment  to 
multilateralism  is  strongly  emphasized  in  its  role  in 
solving  problems  that  threaten  peace  and  security  on 
the African continent, particularly in the Great Lakes 
region. 
In  the  context  of  the  International  Conference 
on  the  Great  Lakes  Region,  Angola  has  been  leading 
diplomatic  efforts,  with  its  regional  and  international 
partners,  to  find  a  lasting  political  solution  capable 
of  guaranteeing  security,  stability,  economic  and 
social  development,  and  democracy  for  the  countries 
and  peoples  of  the  region.  This  joint  engagement  has 
allowed  for  a  substantial  reduction  of  tensions  in  the 
region, with notable advances such as the continuation 
of  the  inter-Burundi  dialogue,  encouraging  signs  in 
the resolution of the political crisis in the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  positive  developments  in 
the  peace  process  in  the  Central  African  Republic, 
which  have  made  it  possible  to  hold  elections  in  the 
country leading to the normalization of its institutions.
Despite  these  advances,  we  still  have  a  long  way 
to  go  on  the  path  towards  fully  stabilizing  that  part 
of  our  continent,  and  the  parties  involved  carry  the 
main responsibility for ending the violence, respecting 
the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  the 
citizens of their respective countries, and building their 
national political institutions. In this context, they must 
demonstrate  through  action  their  commitment  to  and 
engagement with peace agreements and other political 
platforms  either  negotiated  directly  or  sponsored  by 
regional institutions and the international community.
The  international  community’s  collective  action 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  should 
also  cover  the  fight  against  terrorism.  In  this  fight, 
a  significant  part  of  our  effort  should  be  directed 
at  combating  the  causes  of  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism, which reside, inter alia, in the social crises 
in  and  the  institutional  fragility  of  many  States.  The 
case of Libya is a blatant example of this reality.
The African continent has been at the forefront of 
the fight against terrorism, which has killed innocent 
civilians,  caused  extensive  damage  to  property  and 
destroyed  the  way  of  life  of  many  of  its  countries. 
Angola fully supports the efforts of the African Union, 
with  the  assistance  of  its  international  partners,  to 
confront the scourge of terrorism.
Two  years  ago,  we  adopted  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  —  an  important  instrument 
to guide the development strategies of our States. We 
hope  that  its  implementation  over  the  next  13  years 
will substantially reduce the major social deficiencies 
affecting developing nations in particular. The economic 
and  financial  difficulties  affecting  most  countries 
have  had  a  negative  impact  on  the  mobilization  of 
financial resources for the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda, especially among the poorest, most vulnerable 
countries with limited internal resources. International 
efforts  aimed  at  securing  critical  financial  resources 
should be guided by the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
on Financing for Development, adopted in 2015.
The Republic of Angola, which is now beginning 
a new cycle in its life as a nation, is strongly engaged 
in  achieving  the  17  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
despite  an  adverse  global  economic  environment.  To 
that end, Angola has launched its national development 
plan, aimed at rehabilitating and modernizing economic 
and social infrastructure, promoting public and private 
investment, and enhancing training, qualification and 
the adequate management of human resources.
The  world 
is  moving 
towards  consensus 
in 
recognizing 
the  urgency  of  combating  climate 
change.  To  this  end,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change is extremely important in the development of 
enabling tools for protecting the right to development 
and  strengthening  resilience  in  developing  countries. 
Angola views the Agreement as a historic commitment 
17-29852
13/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
and an encouragement to contain global warming and 
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The urgent need 
for  the  world  to  advance  the  implementation  of  the 
Paris Agreement has been dramatically highlighted by 
the recent climate-related disasters in various parts of 
the world. Angola joins in solidarity with the victims 
in the Caribbean, Mexico, the United States and other 
parts of the world.
In order to address this and other challenges facing 
the  international  community,  Angola  will  continue 
to  be  a  safe  and  responsible  partner  of  the  United 
Nations  and  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  its 
agenda in an engaged manner. We are increasingly able 
and  fit  to  play  a  decisive  role  in  restoring  peace  and 
security, particularly in Africa, as well as in furthering 
its  economic  development.  To  that  end,  Angola  has 
remained stable, and the pacification of the country has 
definitely been achieved.
in  peacetime, 
The  Republic  of  Angola  recently  held  its  third 
general  elections 
in  a  climate  of 
tranquillity,  respect  for  differences  and  great  civility, 
demonstrating  the  stability  prevailing  in  the  country 
and  that  the  gradual  consolidation  of  democracy 
is  a  fact.  The  priorities  of  the  new  Government  will 
focus  on  economic  development  with  particular 
attention on combating poverty, reducing inequalities, 
combating unemployment, and improving governance 
insufficiencies and development indicators as a sine qua 
non for building a prosperous and democratic society.
Regrettably,  peace  is  still  not  prevalent  in  many 
regions.  Concerning  Guinea-Bissau,  a  country  linked 
to  Angola  by  historical  and  brotherly  ties,  we  remain 
confident and expectant regarding the resolution of the 
political  impasse.  In  this  regard,  we  strongly  support 
the efforts of all the Guinean, regional and international 
political  and  social  actors,  including  the  Economic 
Community of West African States, the African Union, 
the  United  Nations,  the  European  Union  and  the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries.
The  issue  of  Western  Sahara  continues  to  merit 
the  due  attention  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  the 
effective  implementation  of  the  relevant  Security 
Council  and  African  Union  resolutions.  Angola 
encourages  the  main  parties  involved  to  continue  the 
dialogue  in  order  to  resolve  the  dispute,  which  has 
lasted too long.
In  the  Middle  East,  we  are  concerned  about  the 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  peace  process. 
in 
impasse 
Angola argues that the solution lies in the acceptance 
and existence of two States, living side by side in peace 
and security.
The tension we are now witnessing in the Korean 
peninsula  poses  a  very  serious  threat  to  international 
peace and security. Angola joins the voices advocating 
for  a  diplomatic  solution  and  compliance  with 
international  non-proliferation 
instruments.  The 
peoples of the region deserve to live in peace and not 
haunted  by  the  spectre  of  a  conflict  whose  effects 
would  be  devastating  and  unacceptable  to  the  human 
conscience.
Angola  promptly  welcomed  the  steps  taken  to 
normalize relations between the Republic of Cuba and 
the  United  States  of  America,  which  will  benefit  the 
two  peoples.  The  complete  lifting  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  would  contribute 
significantly  to  easing  tensions  between  the  two 
countries and would eliminate one of the last remnants 
of the Cold War. This would also bring about a more 
stable and peaceful environment for development in the 
Latin American region. This unilateral measure — the 
embargo  —  limits  the  Cuban  people’s  enjoyment  of 
development, and its extraterritorial effects violate the 
principles and norms of international law.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights 
have  always  been  at  the  forefront  of  Angola’s  foreign 
priorities,  as  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  it  is  a  party 
to  the  main  international  human  rights  instruments 
and  maintains  an  exemplary  cooperation  and 
ongoing  dialogue  with  United  Nations  human  rights 
mechanisms.  It  is  in  this  context  that  Angola  is  a 
candidate for a seat on the Human Rights Council in the 
elections that will take place in October 2017. We look 
forward  to  participating  actively  in  and  contributing 
to  the  protection  of  human  rights  in  the  regions  and 
countries most affected by violations of these rights. In 
this regard, we would highly appreciate the support of 
the members of the Assembly for our candidacy.
I would like to conclude by urging Member States 
to  renew  their  confidence  in  the  United  Nations  and 
strengthen international dialogue as a key element of a 
culture of peace, respect for differences among peoples, 
conflict prevention and the foundations of progress and 
development, to which all the peoples of the world have 
the right and are entitled.
14/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Craig  John  Hawke,  Chair  of  the 
Delegation of New Zealand.
Mr.  Hawke  (New  Zealand):  There  is  no  greater 
demonstration  of  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to 
bring the world together than the opening of the General 
Assembly. The breadth of issues which are discussed in 
this Hall is immense. Often there are as many points of 
view as there are Member States, but ultimately we as 
an Organization share the common goal of making the 
world more peaceful and improving the lives of all of 
our peoples.
New  Zealand  is  approximately  1,000  kilometres 
removed from its nearest neighbour in the Pacific, but 
our  international  connections  are  an  intrinsic  part  of 
our identity and the foundation of our prosperity. We 
are  an  outward-looking  nation  that  relies  on  global 
stability for our trade and the safety of our people. As a 
founding Member of the United Nations, New Zealand 
has  always  supported  the  leading  role  of  the    United 
Nations in a multilateral system, which fosters positive 
international relations.
Given the significant ongoing challenges to peace 
and security, the role of the United Nations in preventing 
and  resolving  conflict  is  as  relevant  now  as  ever. 
Among  those  challenges,  North  Korea  presents  some 
of  the  most  pressing  threats  to  international  security 
in our time. The North Korean regime has consistently 
disregarded Security Council resolutions, the wishes of 
the international community and the well-being of its 
own people. In this past month alone, it has conducted 
its sixth nuclear test, launched a ballistic missile over 
Japan  and  carried  out  other  ballistic-missile  tests. 
Those  provocative  actions  have  directly  undermined 
the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime,  and  that  has 
serious wider implications.
As we saw during our recent term on the Security 
Council,  the  Council  works  most  effectively  when  it 
acts as one. New Zealand supports the strong, unified 
responses  by  the  Security  Council,  and  we  stand 
ready  to  work  with  Member  States  on  measures  that 
will  fully  reflect  the  consequences  of  North  Korea’s 
actions.  We  hope  to  see  tensions  defused  and  a  path 
to  dialogue  developed.  The  goal  of  denuclearization 
requires  eventual  engagement  with  Pyongyang,  but 
any  dialogue  must  be  meaningful  and  constructive, 
and  must  address  the  issues  that  most  concern  the 
international  community.  Until  then,  we  join  the  rest 
of  the  international  community  in  calling  on  North 
Korea  to  undertake  immediate  actions  to  de-escalate 
tensions, improve its humanitarian situation and abide 
by its international obligations.
The  risks  associated  with  nuclear  weapons  and 
nuclear  proliferation  have  been  a  key  factor  in  New 
Zealand’s  long-standing  commitment  to  international 
nuclear  disarmament.  Last  week,  we  were  pleased  to 
sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. 
The  Treaty  represents  an  important  step  towards  a 
nuclear-weapon-free world.
New  Zealand  is  committed  to  playing  its  part  to 
address global threats to peace and security. We have a 
history of contributing to efforts to prevent and resolve 
conflict,  including  through  the  United  Nations.  On 
the  Security  Council,  New  Zealand  made  determined 
efforts to improve the humanitarian situation in Syria. 
Alongside  Spain,  Jordan  and  Egypt,  we  managed  to 
renew and improve cross-border access arrangements. 
We  consistently  raised  concerns  about  the  Council’s 
failure to bring about a political solution. Unspeakable 
crimes  continue  to  be  committed  against  the  civilian 
population, and humanitarian access remains fraught. 
Only  a  sustainable  peace  based  on  an  inclusive  long-
term  political  settlement  can  bring  that  needless 
conflict to an end.
In Iraq, New Zealand’s defence force personnel are 
working  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  Iraqi  forces  in 
their battle against Da’esh. We welcome the liberation 
of  Mosul,  Tal  Afar  and  Nineveh  province.  That  was 
an  admirable  achievement,  and  we  acknowledge  the 
sacrifice and commitment of the Iraqi security forces 
and Government. We note that the influence of Da’esh 
is not limited to Iraq and Syria, and that the defeat of 
Da’esh there will not spell the end of that group. New 
Zealand is focused on working with others in our near 
region  —  the  Asia-Pacific  —  to  ensure  that  groups 
like  Da’esh  do  not  inflict  suffering  in  the  way  they 
have elsewhere.
In  addition  to  security-based  efforts,  preventing 
and countering violent extremism in the first place is 
vital, and we are pleased to support international efforts 
in  that  regard.  New  Zealand  has  been  contributing 
to  Afghanistan’s  stability  since  2001.  We  remain  a 
committed  partner  of  Afghanistan  including  through 
the NATO Resolute Support Mission. Ongoing support 
for  Afghanistan  from  the  international  community  is 
critical, given the scale and complexity of the challenges 
17-29852
15/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
ahead,  but  history  has  demonstrated  in  Afghanistan 
that  no  amount  of  international  support  can  by  itself 
bring  about  lasting  peace  and  security.  Afghanistan’s 
future lies in the hands of its Government and people. 
We continue to call on the National Unity Government 
to  prioritize  the  interests  of  the  Afghan  people  above 
all else.
The  United  Nations  is  unique  in  its  ability  to 
convene  the  world  so  as  to  tackle  problems  that 
require collective action. The speed with which parties 
ratified  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  has 
demonstrated  the  strength  of  commitment  to  take 
meaningful  action  on  climate  change.  New  Zealand 
is  among  the  many  countries  committed  to  the  Paris 
Agreement. Progressing the Paris work programme is 
essential so as to deliver a framework that will ensure 
that  the  Agreement  is  robust,  effective  and  credible, 
and that collective ambition will increase over time.
The  Pacific  is  at  the  forefront  of  vulnerability  to 
the effects of climate change. We are therefore pleased 
to  support  Fiji’s  presidency  of  this  year’s  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. It is a rare opportunity 
for the region to showcase its leadership in that area. 
We  are  an  island  nation  within  a  vast  Pacific  Ocean. 
Our exclusive economic zone is 15 times larger than our 
land area. The sustainable management of our sea and 
our islands are of critical importance environmentally, 
economically and culturally.
Small 
island  developing  States 
face  unique 
challenges  and  vulnerabilities.  They  are  also  great-
ocean  States  and  stewards  of  considerable  ocean 
resources.  New  Zealand  wants  to  assist  those  States 
in  the  sustainable  management  of  oceans  to  ensure 
that  our  oceans  are  healthy  and  productive.  We  are 
making substantial investments to improve sustainable 
fisheries  management  in  the  Pacific  and  to  reduce 
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
We  are  also  propelling  a  major  increase  in 
renewable energy generation in our region and further 
afield. New Zealand has taken a lead role in advocating 
internationally  for  the  reform  of  fossil-fuel  subsidies, 
which  lead  to  wasteful  consumption,  put  renewable 
energy  at  a  disadvantage  and  depress  investment 
in  energy  efficiency.  We  are  exploiting  alternative 
sources  of  development  financing,  including  working 
with  the  private  sector,  tapping  into  the  diaspora  as 
a  source  of  skills  and  investment,  maximizing  the 
value of remittances and increasing temporary labour 
market access.
New  Zealand  is  supporting  the  achievement  of 
the Sustainable Development Goals in a wide range of 
areas, both domestically and internationally, including 
through our development assistance. We will continue 
to play our part in meeting the high level of ambition set 
out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The Pacific is an important part of how we define 
ourselves 
internationally.  A  strong  and  effective 
regional  architecture,  with  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
as the central regional body, is a key to Pacific success. 
New Zealand and was pleased with the outcomes of the 
recent  Pacific  Island  Forum  Leaders  Meeting,  which 
had  a  strong  focus  on  fisheries  and  climate  change 
issues.  Pacific  leaders  also  agreed  on  the  importance 
of  fully  implementing  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions on North Korea, including by de-registering 
any North Korean trading or fishing vessels currently 
flagged in Pacific States’ shipping registries.
New  Zealand  places  significant  value  on  the 
international  rules-based  order.  Widely  recognized 
rules, buttressed by an effective United Nations, are the 
best guarantors of our security and our economic well-
being, particularly for small States. Such guarantees are 
also the best means of ensuring decent treatment and 
decent conditions for the world’s citizens, and thereby 
reducing conditions that can lead to unrest, conflict and 
misery.  But  we  all  recognize  that  the  United  Nations 
can  do  better,  and  to  do  so  it  must  be  more  relevant, 
effective and fit for purpose. The Secretary-General’s 
reform agenda provides an opportunity for us to make 
that a reality. Important work lies ahead for us to reform 
the development, peace and security pillars.
Another  critical  element  of  making  the  United 
Nations more effective is management reform, including 
strengthening  and  modernizing  its  recruitment  and 
management processes to ensure that maximum benefit 
is derived from its people. New Zealand looks forward 
to  working  together  with  the  Secretary-General  and 
all  Member  States.  It  is  our  sincere  hope  that  reform 
can  achieve  our  collective  goal  of  better  reflecting 
the  ideals  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and, 
ultimately,  ensuring  that  the  United  Nations  delivers 
better outcomes for our generation and those to come.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Aksoltan  Ataeva,  Chair  of  the 
Delegation of Turkmenistan.
16/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
Allow  me  to  convey  greetings  and  wishes  for  peace 
and  prosperity  to  the  peoples  of  the  member  States 
represented here from the President of Turkmenistan, 
His Excellency Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov.
I congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his important 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second  session,  and  I  wish  him  success  in 
his  forthcoming  work.  I  would  also  like  to  commend 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  President  of  the  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-first  session,  for  his  active  and  effective 
activities in that position.
Guaranteeing international peace and security and 
protecting  the  legal  and  institutional  foundations  that 
are at the basis of the modern world order are the main 
task of the countries of the United Nations and of the 
largest  international  organizations,  and  that  requires 
of them closer and more coordinated cooperation. The 
degree of effectiveness of such cooperation will in its 
turn largely determine the success of solutions to other 
global  problems,  including  the  environment,  energy 
and  food-related  issues,  combating  terrorism,  drug 
trafficking and other challenges.
Today the effective and uncompromising struggle 
against terrorism has become the imperative of global 
development. It is clear that terrorism in all its forms 
is  a  deliberate  challenge  to  the  civilized  world.  In 
point of fact, terrorism as a phenomenon threatens to 
undermine the entire system of global security and its 
political and moral foundations. We strongly condemn 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  and 
recognize  that  the  prevention  of  terrorism  is  one  of 
the  most  important  components  of  ensuring  national, 
regional and global security.
effective 
We  welcome  the  important  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  international  efforts  to  combat  terrorism. 
Supporting  the  efforts  of  the  world  community  to 
create 
counter-terrorism 
mechanisms. Turkmenistan therefore advocates the full 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy. We believe that such work should 
be carried out everywhere — at the global, regional and 
national levels.
international 
In that connection, we welcome the establishment 
of United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism, and we 
are  ready  to  cooperate  actively  to  further  implement 
the  Ashgabat  Declaration,  which  was  adopted  at  the 
outcome of the Central Asia-United Nations High-level 
Dialogue on Implementing the United Nations Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  in  Central  Asia,  held  on 
13 June 2017 in Turkmenistan.
Noting 
the  role  of  preventive  diplomacy 
in 
preventing  conflicts,  eliminating  the  causes  that  lead 
to conflict, establishing an atmosphere of trust among 
countries and creating positive conditions for effective 
cooperation  among  States  on  political,  diplomatic, 
economic,  social,  environmental  and  other  issues, 
Turkmenistan  attaches  particular  importance  to  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for 
Preventive Diplomacy for Central Asia that are aimed at 
achieving those objectives in the Central Asian region.
This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
establishment  of  the  Regional  Centre.  Turkmenistan, 
together with Central Asian countries, intends to submit 
to the First Committee a draft resolution on supporting 
preventive  diplomacy  mechanisms 
in  addressing 
urgent problems with the intention of supporting peace 
and security.
The  conditions  in  the  world  and  new  challenges 
and  threats  to  humankind  dictate  the  need  to  reform 
the United Nations and to review its working methods 
in  order  to  strengthen  its  timeliness  and  its  ability  to 
react to those threats. We support reforms and also the 
efforts of the Secretary-General in that regard.
of 
the 
The 
implementation 
Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) is one of the key areas of 
our  country’s  strategic  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations.  As  a  result  of  the  comprehensive  work  that 
had  been  carried  out  jointly  with  the  United  Nations 
since  October  2015  at  the  governmental  level,  the  17 
Goals, 148 targets and 193 indicators of the SDGs were 
selected and adopted. To coordinate the implementation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  within  the 
country, we have established a national mechanism for 
SDG implementation.
To  organize  training  in  the  methodology  related 
to  issues  of  implementing  the  SDGs  at  the  national, 
regional  and  international  levels,  we  have  opened  a 
training and methodological centre within the Institute 
of  International  Relations  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign 
Affairs in Turkmenistan.
Turkmenistan,  recognizing 
importance  of 
sport  as  a  key  factor  for  guaranteeing  peace  and 
sustainable development, again states its commitment 
international  sports  cooperation. 
to  strengthening 
the 
17-29852
17/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
Currently,  in  Ashgabat,  the  fifth  Asian  Indoor  and 
Martial Arts Games are being held, with the participation 
of  national  teams  from  65  countries,  including  19 
countries  of  Oceania,  which  are  participating  for  the 
first time.
for Sustainable Development, Turkmenistan intends to 
submit to the Second Committee at the current session 
a  draft  resolution  on  strengthening  the  links  between 
all  modes  of  transport  to  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Expressing our firm commitment to the provisions 
of  resolution  70/1,  of  25  September  2015,  entitled 
“Transforming  our  world: 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development”,  and 
the 
increasing role that sport plays in broadening the rights 
and  opportunities  of  individuals  and  communities, 
Turkmenistan  has  initiated  the  participation  of  the 
refugee  Olympic 
thereby 
reaffirming our country’s commitment to the ideals of 
humanism, goodness, fairness and progress as anchored 
in the Charter of the United Nations.
in  competitions, 
recognizing 
team 
We  express  our  thanks  to  all  countries  for  their 
support for the initiative of Turkmenistan and Brazil in 
that regard and for the adoption of the Joint Statement on 
Encouraging the Valuable Contribution of the Olympic 
Teams of Refugees to the Promotion of Peace and Human 
Rights at the thirty-sixth session of the Human Rights 
Council, on 15 September in Geneva. Pursuant to the 
Final Declaration of the International Sports Congress, 
entitled  “Asian  Games  2017:  International  Sport 
Cooperation  for  Peace  and  Development”,  published 
as an official document of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-first session (A/71/878, annex), Turkmenistan 
reaffirms  its  proposal  to  host,  under  the  auspices  of 
UNESCO,  the  seventh  International  Conference  of 
Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible for Physical 
Education and Sport.
Cooperation  in  the  area  of  transport  is  a  priority 
for our country in working with the United Nations and 
its specialized agencies. Turkmenistan will continue to 
actively support the implementation of the decisions of 
the international community, in particular resolutions 
69/213, of 2014, and 70/197, of 2015, aimed at forming 
new  international  transport  and  transit  corridors  and 
updating existing ones. As an important step towards the 
implementation of those documents, the Government of 
Turkmenistan suggested holding the first United Nations 
Global Sustainable Transport Conference, which took 
place  in  Ashgabat  in  November  2016,  and  welcomed 
the  participation  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations. Recalling that the Ashgabat Statement 
on  Commitments  and  Policy  Recommendations  was 
adopted  at  the  end  of  the  Conference,  and  with  the 
aim  of  successfully  implementing  the  2030  Agenda 
Ensuring  sustainable  and  fair  access  to  energy 
resources  is  one  of  the  main  tasks  on  the  global 
2030  Agenda.  This  year  our  country  will  chair  the 
international Energy Charter Conference. In line with 
the  plans  for  our  chairmanship,  Turkmenistan  has 
this year undertaken a range of measures to revitalize 
the  process  of  developing  new  international  legal 
mechanisms in the field of sustainable energy. In that 
context,  we  welcome  the  creation  of  an  international 
expert group on energy security and sustainable energy 
and invite States to take active part in the work of the 
Energy  Charter  Conference,  which  will  be  held  on 
28 and 29 November in Ashgabat.
One of our main objectives is to participate actively 
in international efforts to deal with the most important 
issues  of  environmental  protection,  including  the 
management  of  water  resources.  In  the  light  of 
Turkmenistan’s chairmanship of the International Fund 
for Saving the Aral Sea (IFAS), we propose holding a 
summit  in  2018  in  Turkmenistan,  with  the  Heads  of 
the  Founder  States  of  IFAS,  which  would  include  the 
participation  of  specialized  international  structures 
such as the United Nations Development Programme, 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  and 
the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive 
Diplomacy for Central Asia.
We  once  again  state  our  country’s  readiness  to 
seek  out  new  approaches  and  ways  to  overcome  the 
challenges faced by humankind and reaffirm our firm 
commitment  to  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations, 
which  was  and  remains  a  strategic  priority  and  a 
practical  foundation  for  all  of  our  activities  in  the 
international arena.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Gustavo Meza-Cuadra, Chair of the Delegation of 
the Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It 
is an honour for me to address the General Assembly 
and congratulate the President on his election, and to 
express our willingness to contribute to the success of 
his term.
18/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
I wish first of all to emphasize Peru’s commitment 
to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  to  international 
peace and security, to sustainable development and to 
human  rights,  and  to  the  achievement  of  sustainable 
peace. For that, we need to strengthen multilateralism, 
dialogue and cooperation.
and 
corruption, 
strengthening 
For  Peru,  the  United  Nations  is  essential  for 
building  a  peaceful  and  sustainable  future,  facing 
global  challenges  such  as  climate  change,  terrorism 
or 
international 
governance in order to obtain a more humane, open and 
inclusive globalization. Peru is preparing to become a 
non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 
biennium 2018-2019. Our vocation for peace and respect 
for international law, effective collective security and 
adherence to the peaceful settlement of disputes will be 
the guiding principles of our action.
We  are  a  developing  country  that  has  suffered 
terrorism  at  first  hand.  We  are  a  firm  defender  of 
human rights and a promoter of democracy and the rule 
of law. We will give special attention to consolidating 
sustainable  peace  and  preventing  conflicts  and 
humanitarian crises.
The  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
and the possible access of terrorist groups to them are 
real  threats.  That  is  why  we  have  signed  the  Treaty 
on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  and  we  hope 
that all States possessing such weapons will adhere to 
that instrument.
We condemn the nuclear tests and ballistic missile 
launches  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  which  today  constitute  the  greatest  threat 
to  international  peace  and  security.  In  the  Security 
Council, we will support efforts to resume the Six-Party 
Talks in order to denuclearize the Korean peninsula.
to 
Peru  reaffirms 
its  commitment 
the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change and its implementation. 
Our  country  is  particularly  vulnerable  to  the  adverse 
effects  of  climate  change,  which  is  seen  in  ocean 
warming,  shrinking  glaciers  and  the  impact  on  the 
availability of water resources, the loss of biodiversity 
and other extreme phenomena. Climate change is a real 
threat that knows no borders. So far this year Peru has 
suffered  from  the  rain  and  flooding  of  the  coastal  El 
Niño,  and  the  Caribbean  and  the  United  States  have 
suffered  a  series  of  devastating  hurricanes.  That  is 
why  we  support  the  initiative  of  President  Emmanuel 
Macron  of  France  to  establish  a  Global  Pact  for 
the Environment.
Peru is also committed to achieving the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Accordingly,  we  presented  our 
first voluntary national review in July, reporting on our 
progress in implementing the 2030 Agenda in line with 
our national priorities, circumstances and needs. Peru 
promotes,  from  a  focus  on  rights,  a  social  revolution 
aimed  at  eradicating  poverty  through  quality  public 
services. Ensuring access to water and sanitation is the 
first  priority  of  our  Government,  which  accounts  for 
the participation of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in 
the High-level Panel on Water.
resources  needed 
In  line  with  the  2030  Agenda,  we  believe  that 
corruption  is  also  a  global  threat,  one  that  erodes 
democratic  governance  and  legal  stability  in  our 
countries,  diverts 
finance 
development, generates disenchantment and mistrust in 
institutions and increases inequality. Aware of the need 
to  confront  that  scourge  together,  Peru  has  proposed 
that  democratic  governance  and  the  fight  against 
corruption be the central themes of the Summit of the 
Americas to be held in Lima next April, with a view to 
adopting  concrete  measures  to  strengthen  institutions 
and combat impunity.
to 
The adoption of the standards and good practices 
of  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  —  which  Peru  aspires  to  join  before 
2021,  the  year  of  our  bicentennial  as  an  independent 
nation  —  will  also  contribute  to  strengthening  our 
institutions and achieving the Sustainable Development 
Goals
Peruvians believe that democracy is indispensable 
for  stability,  peace,  development  and  the  defence  and 
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
Guided by that conviction, my country led the process 
that culminated in the adoption of the Inter-American 
Democratic Charter in 2001.
In  our  region,  democracy  is  an  inalienable  right, 
which is why Peru remains profoundly concerned with 
the rupture of the democratic order and humanitarian 
crisis  happening  in  Venezuela,  as  well  as  by  the 
infringements on and abuses of citizens that have been 
reported  by  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights. The solution to the grave crisis in 
Venezuela  must  be  peaceful  and  be  negotiated  by  the 
Venezuelans  themselves.  Any  attempt,  internal  or 
external, to resort to force violates the principles of the 
17-29852
19/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
Charter  of  the  Organization  and  undermines  genuine 
interest  in  defending  democracy  and  respect  for  the 
rule of law, both domestically and internationally.
Along those lines, the Lima Group believes that the 
initiative of the Dominican Republic to bring together 
the Government and the opposition should be developed 
with good faith, rules, objectives, clear deadlines and 
guarantees  of  compliance,  for  which  international 
accompaniment is essential.
To  conclude,  I  wish  to  convey  to  the  General 
Assembly that Peru will continue to work constructively 
to  solve  the  problems  we  face  and  to  bring  about  the 
future that our peoples long for and deserve.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Jorge Arreaza, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
Mr.  Arreaza  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela) 
(spoke in Spanish): We address the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session  in  the  name  of  the 
constitutional  President  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela,  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros,  and  thus  in  the 
name of a sovereign, peace-loving people that believes 
in  respect  among  nations  and  compliance  with  the 
purest and truest principles of international law — the 
Bolivarian people of Venezuela.
In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  liberating  army 
of  Simón  Bolivar  left  its  country  not  to  conquer  or 
dominate, but rather to help brotherly peoples achieve 
their  independence,  so  that  later  they  could  return 
home  with  the  satisfaction  of  having  been  useful  in 
the  cause  of  liberty  and  equality.  That  is  the  spirit 
that  characterizes  our  people  and  the  actions  of  our 
revolutionary Government during such difficult times 
for humankind. That is why we will always uphold the 
Bolivarian diplomacy of peace.
Indeed, we are in the house of peace, the home of 
peaceful  solutions  and  the  land  of  international  law 
and its principles. We are embraced and upheld by the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  a  noble  multilateral 
instrument  to  avoid  war  and  injustices.  Thus  this 
rostrum  should  be  respected,  protected  and  cared  for 
by nations. It is an all but sacred podium for the peoples 
that espouse peace and understanding.
However,  this  House,  one  of  multilaterialism  and 
respect for the equality of peoples and States, has been 
defiled, disrespected and offended, time and time again, 
by arrogant Powers that seek to impose their unilateral 
rules of the game — rules of war, suffering and pain. 
That was denounced in this very place, in a resounding 
voice  and  an  incomparable  manner,  by  Commander 
Hugo Chávez in 2006 (see A/61/PV.12). Everyone will 
recall his remark, that it smelled of sulphur in here. It 
continues  to  smell  of  sulphur.  He  tried  to  sound  the 
alarm to generate the necessary restraint to confront the 
serious unilateral threats then threatening world peace.
Nevertheless,  a  week  ago  this  Hall  (see  A/72/
PV.3) — and the world, by way of the media — bore 
witness  to  yet  another  dangerous  desecration  of  the 
principles  and  objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
emperor of the world, the President of the United States, 
Donald  Trump,  used  this  platform  built  for  peace 
to  announce  wars,  the  total  destruction  of  Member 
States and the implementation of unilateral and illegal 
coercive measures. He threatened and judged at will, as 
if he had absolute dictatorial powers over the sovereign 
States Members of our Organization. Paradoxically, in 
a display of brazenness and political hypocracy, Donald 
Trump  based  his  attacks  against  humankind  on  such 
values as peace and prosperity.
In our case, we recall that former President Barack 
Obama,  who  had  a  different  style  but  the  same  goal, 
declared  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  an 
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security 
of the United States. That was in an executive order on 
9 May 2015. Today, we are obliged to declare before the 
world that our country was directly threatened by the 
President of the United States with the use of the most 
powerful  military  force  that  has  ever  existed  in  the 
history of humankind. That was on 11 August this year.
As  a  complement  to  such  anachronism  and  an 
offence  to  our  sovereignty  and  to  the  peace  that  has 
always  characterized  our  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean, the Trump Administration imposed illegal 
economic  sanctions  on  our  economy  on  25  August, 
with  a  view  to  making  our  people  suffer  and  forcing 
undemocratic changes to our system of government. In 
his statement last week Donald Trump appealed to the 
antiquated ideological rhetoric of the Cold War, to the 
best  inquisitorial  style  of  Richard  Nixon  and  Senator 
Joseph  McCarthy,  to  reiterate  his  threats  against  our 
country  and  our  sister  Republic  of  Cuba.  Venezuela 
will always seek mutually respectful dialogue with the 
United States Government. However, as the free people 
that we are, we stand ready to defend our sovereignty, 
our independence and our democracy in any scenario 
and by any way.
20/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
  Given  such  attitudes,  the  United  Nations  should 
establish  effective  mechanisms  to  neutralize  warlike 
pretences  and  intentions  to  supplant  multilaterialism, 
which  has  cost  us  so  much  to  consolidate,  with  the 
dictatorial unilateralism of those who intend, through 
the  use  of  arms  and  economic  blackmail,  to  impose 
destruction and a single way of thinking on our diverse 
and  heterogeneous  humankind.  In  that  connection, 
last  Tuesday  the  120  members  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned  Countries  —  two  thirds  of  the  General 
Assembly  —  unanimously  adopted 
the  Political 
Declaration  of  New  York  as  a  tool  for  denunciation, 
condemnation  and 
joint  action  against  coercive 
and  unilateral  measures  that  certain  international 
actors impose in frank violation of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
In our statement on behalf of the presidency of the 
Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  at  the  plenary 
session  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  last  Thursday, 
we proposed that the New York Political Declaration be 
extended to that group of countries, which focuses on 
economic affairs, because the merciless and unilateral 
attacks against the economies of our peoples form an 
essential  part  of  those  illegal,  unilateral  and  coercive 
measures. We must urgently seek multilateral responses 
to avoid the imposition of coercive measures whereby 
Governments that have imposed them illegally have a 
legal  obligation  to  compensate  the  peoples  who  have 
suffered from their effects. In that regard, we condemn 
all  unilateral  actions  against  brotherly  nations,  such 
as  Russia  and  Iran,  in  particular  the  extension  of  the 
criminal  blockade  against  the  brotherly  Republic 
of  Cuba,  which  has  been  in  effect  for  more  than  five 
decades and, at this time, clearly reflects the new winds 
of United States unilateralism.
Venezuela firmly opposes the existence of nuclear 
weapons  on  our  planet.  Their  possession  exposes 
humankind to unimaginable and unjustifiable anguish 
and  risks.  We  therefore  signed  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  last  Wednesday.  We 
must make a supreme effort so that nuclear crises are 
de-escalated and vanish — hopefully along with their 
weapons — through dialogue and humanist reason.
In the area of human rights as well, Venezuela — which 
over  the  past  several  years  has  worked  tirelessly 
to  ensure  the  broadest  form  of  social  investment, 
redistributing  with  justice  its  national  wealth  among 
Venezuelan men and women so as to ensure their human 
and social rights — has been targeted and accused by 
the United States Government. If there is any country 
that is not worthy of membership in the Human Rights 
Council,  it  is  precisely  the  United  States  of  America. 
It  is  the  main  violator  of  human  rights,  not  only  on 
its  own  territory,  but  throughout  the  world,  including 
through  unjustified  wars,  the  bombing  of  civilian 
populations,  clandestine  imprisonment  accompanied 
by various forms of torture, the imposition of unilateral 
and  unlawful  measures  against  economies  in  several 
countries, various kinds of economic pressure, and rash 
migration policies. It is the only country that has dared 
to use nuclear weapons against another people. It is a 
country  that,  violating  the  fundamental  institutional 
framework  of  the  United  Nations,  led  the  invasion  of 
Iraq in 2003 on the grounds that it was searching for 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  that  they  never  found, 
notwithstanding the more than 1 million deaths caused 
by that bloody military operation.
The United States is building a wall on its border 
with  Mexico,  and  there  is  proposed  legislation  to 
impose a 7 per cent tax on immigrants’ income to fund 
not  their  social  security  but  the  construction  of  that 
shameful wall.
Based  on  verifiable  data  from  United  Nations 
agencies  and  rapporteurs,  we  can  note  the  following. 
The  United  States  has  not  ratified  62  per  cent  of  the 
principal  treaties  concerning  human  rights.  In  the 
United  States,  there  is  no  independent  institution  for 
the defence and promotion of human rights. The United 
Nations Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary 
or  arbitrary  executions  has  condemned  the  lack  of 
independence  of  the  United  States  judiciary.  Solitary 
confinement is widespread practice in this country. The 
number  of  homeless  people  has  reached  3.5  million, 
including  1.5  million  boys  and  girls.  Some  28  per 
cent  of  those  living  in  poverty  have  no  health-care 
coverage. The maternal mortality rate has skyrocketed 
in recent years. Some 10,000 children are incarcerated 
in adult prisons, and children can be sentenced to life 
imprisonment. Of those who have been condemned to 
life,  70  per  cent  are  African-American.  The  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  education  has  condemned 
the  use  of  electric  shocks  and  physical  coercion  in 
study centres.
The United States is one of the seven countries in 
the  world  that  has  not  ratified  the  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against 
Women.  In  the  United  States,  paid  maternity  leave 
is  not  mandatory.  Allegations  of  police  abuses,  in 
17-29852
21/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
particular  against  the  African-American  community, 
are  commonplace.  More  than  10  million  African 
Americans continue to live in poverty, half of them live 
in situations of severe poverty. In a country in which 
slavery  was  supposed  to  have  been  abolished,  the 
thirteenth amendment allows for slavery in the form of 
criminal conviction. One in three American indigenous 
women  will  undergo  rape  in  her  lifetime.  We  are 
discussing a country in which racial discrimination is 
not  only  unsurpassed,  but  one  in  which  it  is  growing 
alongside  the  supremacist  positions  of  the  current 
Administration. Please excuse all the details, but there 
are things that we must know that the media hides.
Venezuela  condemns  terrorism  in  all  its  forms, 
whether  perpetrated  by  the  violent  anarchist  groups 
that  today  threaten  world  peace  and  stability  or  by 
States that assume the right to intervene throughout the 
world,  gaining  control  of  strategic  natural  resources 
through the use of military force with no compassion 
for civilians. It pains us to see how the Mediterranean 
Sea has become an immense cemetery, often before the 
blind  eye  and  incompetence  of  States  bearing  partial 
responsibility for the crises generated in the migrants’ 
countries  of  origin,  owing  to  a  combination  of  both 
forms of terrorism.
Incited and bloody wars like the prefabricated ones 
against Syria and Libya only leave behind desolation and 
division. Fortunately, with the support of their righteous 
international allies, the heroic Syrian Government and 
people are coming closer to a definitive victory against 
terrorist  groups  every  day.  Venezuela  hopes  for  the 
success of the work of the Under-Secretary-General of 
the United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism in his 
role as head coordinator of the United Nations Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy. Venezuela hopes that that 
work will also condemn State terrorism.
Venezuela  encourages  the  resumption  of  peace 
negotiations between Palestine and Israel, which must 
lead  to  a  lasting  and  durable  peace  between  the  two 
States and recognizing as the borders of Palestine those 
that  existed  in  1967,  in  conformity  with  international 
law, as well as establishing East Jerusalem as its capital. 
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  must  assume  a 
much  greater  proactive  role  in  resolving  that  historic 
and unjust conflict.
We thank Secretary-General António Guterres for 
his  sincere  efforts  in  facilitating  the  implementation 
of  the  Geneva  Agreement  through  the  good-offices 
mechanism so as reach a practical solution, satisfactory 
to  the  parties,  in  the  case  of  the  ongoing  territorial 
dispute  between  ourselves  and  our  brothers  and 
neighbours in the cooperative Republic of Guyana.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will always 
be willing to help open the path of peace. We therefore 
commend the implementation of the peace agreements 
between the Government of Colombia and the Fuerzas 
Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, to which both 
Commander  Chávez  and  President  Nicolás  Maduro 
Moros  devoted  so  much  energy  and  effort.  Likewise, 
we  will  continue  to  facilitate  the  talks  between  the 
Government of Colombia and the Ejército de Liberación 
Nacional that are under way in the Republic of Ecuador.
Venezuela  is  not  a  drug-producing  country,  as 
international  agencies  have  certified.  We  cooperate 
in  a  sovereign  capacity  with  all  neighbouring  and 
non-neighbouring  countries 
in  countering  drug 
trafficking. We express our concern about the increase 
in  drug  production  in  the  neighbouring  country  of 
Colombia.  However,  we  have  always  affirmed  that 
consumer countries bear the primary responsibility, as 
they  account  for  the  incentives  underlying  both  drug 
production and drug trafficking, and they must assume 
genuine control of the entry and distribution of drugs 
within their territories.
Since  we  have  been  working  for  many  years 
with  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme, 
Venezuela’s  path  towards  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  is  simple,  because  our  Plan  de  la 
Patria en Marcha and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  not  only  coincide,  but  they  are  also 
complementary instruments.
In  terms  of  their  financing,  everyone  knows  that 
over  the  past  18  years,  76  per  cent  of  Venezuela’s 
revenue  has  been  dedicated  to  social  investment,  and 
that will continue to increase. No economic attack or 
illegal  sanction  will  prevent  President  Maduro  from 
continuing and developing policies that ensure the social 
rights  of  our  fellow  citizens.  Yes,  we  are  concerned 
about the obvious lack of sources of funding for both 
our  brotherly  countries  and  for  those  that  last  year 
expressed  their  willingness  to  comply  with  the  2030 
Agenda although they lack the funds required to do so. 
The United Nations must commit to guaranteeing that 
worthy funding for the comprehensive and sustainable 
development of all Member States.
22/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
It may be no coincidence that days before and during 
this  seventy-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
the  effects  of  the  frequently  warned  of  and  feared 
climate change have manifested themselves through the 
devastation and death caused by consecutive hurricanes 
of magnitudes never previously seen. Those occurred 
not too far from New York. The unprecedented wrath of 
those natural phenomena has affected our brothers and 
sisters in several Caribbean countries.
The  Prime  Ministers  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Gaston  Browne,  and  of  Dominica,  Roosevelt  Skerrit, 
made  two  extraordinary  statements  to  the  General 
Assembly (see A/72/PV.14 and A/72/PV.19, respectively) 
in  which  they  bravely  and  emotionally  expressed 
the  most  absolute  truths  and  alerted  us  to  the  need 
for  concrete,  joint  and  urgent  action  to  avoid  greater 
havoc  being  wreaked  by  those  phenomena,  which 
are  undeniably  caused  by  climate  change.  Roosevelt 
Skerrit said that those small countries are becoming the 
victims of a war that they did not choose, did not start 
and are not part of. It is the war of developed countries 
and  the  capitalist  system  against  our  Mother  Nature. 
Today,  with  greater  emphasis  than  ever  before,  we 
recall the motto of environmental and conservationist 
social movements: let us not change the climate; let us 
change the system.
Restoring  physical 
infrastructure  and  using 
construction  techniques  that  are  resistant  to  the 
hardships  of  new  natural  phenomena  cannot  fall  to 
the  affected  countries  and  people.  It  is  also  a  shared 
and  differentiated  responsibility  that  must  be  borne 
principally by the countries that pollute the most and 
thereby  contribute  to  climate  change.  In  that  context, 
and  in  the  light  of  the  consequences  that  we  have 
witnessed, we find it extraordinary and hostile that the 
Government  of  the  United  States,  the  most  polluting 
country, intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  which,  while  not  a  panacea,  is 
a  collective  step  forward  to  mitigating  the  effects  of 
climate  change.  How  many  hurricanes,  typhoons, 
landslides,  droughts  and  cases  of  subsidence;  how 
many deaths, injured people and devastated countries 
are needed to ascertain that climate change, as stated 
by  the  experts  of  our  very  own  United  Nations,  is  a 
threat  to  the  entire  planet  and  that  it  is  everyone’s 
responsibility to reverse it?
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  offers  its 
condolences to the Governments and families affected 
by the successive hurricanes in the Caribbean and the 
United  States,  as  well  as  the  victims  of  the  terrible 
earthquakes in our sister nation, Mexico. While we have 
sought to deal immediately and in solidarity with the 
emergencies  in  our  region,  President  Nicolás  Maduro 
will continue to provide the necessary support, not only 
that  which  is  at  our  disposal,  but  everything  we  can 
help coordinate and direct in order to assist our friends 
and brothers in Latin America and the Caribbean.
As  I  said  at  the  beginning  of  this  statement,  the 
Venezuelan  people  are  subject  to  constant  aggression 
by  hegemonic  Powers  who  seek  to  seize  our  natural 
resources — no more and no less than the world’s largest 
oil reserve and one of the most important gas reserves, 
as well as our gold, diamond, coltan, iron, aluminium 
and thorium reserves and our biological diversity, water 
resources  and  fertile  lands,  among  others.  We  have 
suffered multifaceted attacks against our economy, our 
currency and our production capacity. The attacks have 
included  the  induced  generation  of  internal  political 
violence by political factions that have tried to accede 
to power by undemocratic means since 2002.
This  year,  we  suffered  four  months  of  political 
violence, once again aimed at overthrowing President 
Maduro. After the tension and pain of the unjustifiable 
deaths, 
the  opposition  violence  was  neutralized 
and  appeased  by  the  great  democratic  and  popular 
demonstration on 30 July, in which more than 8 million 
Venezuelans  came  out  to  vote  for  peace  and  to  elect 
a  civil,  sovereign  and  plenipotentiary  National 
Constituent Assembly.
Those  latest  acts  of  violence  by  the  Venezuelan 
extreme right took place on the very same 30 July in 
an effort to prevent people from going out to vote. Total 
political  peace  returned  to  the  country  from  31  July. 
We  are  witnesses  to  constituent  peace.  Our  National 
Constituent Assembly, in coexistence with and respect 
for the rest of the constituted powers, has become not 
only  a  peacemaker  and  protector  of  the  people,  but 
also  a  quintessential  instrument  for  national  dialogue 
on  and  legitimate  attention  to  the  country’s  most 
urgent problems.
We have an active and popular democracy. We in 
Venezuela have organized 22 elections in 18 years. The 
revolution has triumphed in 20 of those elections. We 
have always developed social dialogue as a method of 
deepening our democracy. That is why we also welcome 
the  fact  that  the  Venezuelan  political  opposition 
has  decided  to  redirect  itself  along  the  democratic 
17-29852
23/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
pathway  and  in  line  with  the  Constitution,  through 
the participation of all its parties in the gubernatorial 
elections on 15 October.
We celebrate the fact that President Danilo Medina 
of the Dominican Republic, former President Rodríguez 
Zapatero  of  Spain,  and  former  President  Leonel 
Fernández of the Dominican Republic have adopted and 
defined  the  dialogue  initiative  that  President  Maduro 
announced just after the establishment of the National 
Constituent Assembly, and have summoned the parties 
to  a  process  to  which  Nicaragua,  Bolivia,  Mexico 
and Chile have joined. We are grateful for the sincere 
support of those friendly countries and Governments, 
in  order  to  promote  the  only  possible  solution  —  a 
peaceful, constitutional and sovereign solution that is 
built by all Venezuelans.
In these times of turmoil in the world, we want to 
see a United Nations that is truly united. Any reform 
process  must  take  place  with  the  participation  and 
inclusion of all its Members. We need a United Nations 
that  is  truly  effective  in  neutralizing  violent  and 
unilateral  initiatives,  as  we  stated  moments  ago,  and 
that  is  able  to  work  together  with  all  Member  States, 
without  hegemonic  bias.  We  need  a  United  Nations 
system that identifies and warns of the true causes of 
the  greatest  problems  humankind  suffers  today,  and 
attends to them with no distractions or pressures that 
may be costly, while always respecting the principles of 
our founding Charter of the United Nations.
and 
healthy  multilateralism 
It  is  time  for  definitions.  The  historical  struggle 
perverse 
between 
unilateralism is at its peak. Let us make decisions that 
always  bear  in  mind  those  who  are  most  humble,  the 
excluded, those who need us most. our Mother Nature. 
Let  us  be  able  to  look  into  the  eyes  of  our  children 
and our grandchildren with the satisfaction of having 
halted  the  worst  and  guaranteed  them  a  better  future 
of  peace,  health  and  happiness.  Let  us  build,  through 
the United Nations, that which the Liberator asked of 
us in 1815 — a Government system that grants us the 
greatest possible amount of happiness, social security 
and political stability.
From  this  house  of multilateralism,  we  say,  may 
multilateralism  live.  From  this  place  of  international 
law, may international law live; from this home of peace, 
may  world  peace  live.  From  the  heart  of  Venezuela, 
rely  on  the  Bolivarian  Government  of  President 
Nicolás  Maduro  to  close  ranks  on  justice,  humanism 
and  peace.  As  the  Liberator  wrote  on  13  April  1823 
to the then President of Peru, José de la Riva Agüero, 
“I am inclined to think that, when it is essential, love 
for the homeland will triumph”. Likewise, we hold the 
unwavering  and  unrelenting  certainty  that  under  any 
circumstances,  love  of  our  sovereign,  peaceful  and 
Bolivarian  Venezuela,  love  of  our  working  people, 
love  of  our  good  people  and  love  of  the  homeland, 
will triumph. Peace will triumph and prevail. We will 
always triumph.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency Mr. Tore Hattrem, Chair of the Delegation 
of the Kingdom of Norway.
Mr. Hattrem (Norway): I would like to begin by 
congratulating Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election to 
the presidency of the General Assembly at this session.
The world has experienced unprecedented progress 
during  the  past  decades.  Extreme  poverty  has  been 
more  than  halved,  people  live  longer,  child  mortality 
rates  are  falling,  and  more  girls  attend  school  that 
ever before. Global and political cooperation, trade and 
shared rules of the road have brought us to where we 
are today.
I would like to highlight four building blocks that 
are  crucial  for  a  sustainable  future.  The  first  is  that 
our  core  interests  are  common  to  us  all,  and  we  can 
achieve more when we act together. The second is that 
there  can  be  no  security  without  development  and  no 
development without security. The first universal road 
map for development, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, is premised on that holistic perspective. 
The  third  is  that  our  security  and  welfare  depend  on 
our  ability  to  uphold  international  law.  Good  global 
and  national  governance  and  the  rule  of  law  are 
decisive  for  sustainable  development.  The  fourth  is 
that protectionism and isolationism will put our shared 
development  into  reverse.  We  need  more  trade  and 
cooperation,  not  less.  We  cannot  afford  to  shake  the 
very foundations that our open, global economic order 
is based on. It is vital that we demonstrate our shared 
commitment  to  a  rules-based,  multilateral  trading 
system, with the World Trade Organization (WTO) at 
its core. The WTO remains our best chance of creating 
a  level  playing  field.  We  will  all  benefit  from  open, 
predictable and enforceable rules and commitments for 
all. It will be crucial to achieve a substantive outcome 
at the WTO’s Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires 
in December. That will be the litmus test.
24/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
As  nations,  our  core  interests  are  shared.  We  all 
want peace, security and welfare for our citizens. We 
have  only  one  planet,  and  every  nation’s  and  every 
citizen’s security and welfare depend on our ability to 
protect our natural environment and climate. We cannot 
allow  inaction  and  unsustainable  practices  to  prevail. 
The  good  news  is  that  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  have  given  us  a  universal  development 
agenda. The Sustainable Development Summit, which 
took  place  in  this  Hall  two  years  ago,  represented  a 
pinnacle of global governance and a defining moment 
for our common future. At that Summit, world leaders 
decided to put sustainability first.
Preventing  and  addressing  war,  conflict  and 
humanitarian  crises  are  crucial 
to  sustainability. 
Norway strongly supports Secretary-General Guterres’s 
vision for the United Nations. Every tool and institution 
within the United Nations system must be realigned to 
improve  our  ability  to  prevent  conflict  and  make  and 
sustain  peace.  Respect  for  fundamental  human  rights 
is  critical  if  we  are  to  build  resilient,  prosperous  and 
peaceful societies. Investing in human rights today will 
prevent conflicts tomorrow.
I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention to the 
peace agreement between the Colombian Government 
and  the  then  Fuerzas  Armadas  Revolucionarias  de 
Colombia. It came about as a result of the courage and 
hard  work  of  the  parties,  supported  by  international 
partners  and  a  united  Security  Council.  Norway  is 
proud to have contributed to the process as a guarantor. 
The point I want to make is that the Colombian success 
story  is  propelling  sustainable  development  forward 
both within and outside the nation’s borders. The Final 
Agreement  between  the  parties  also  addresses  issues 
of general global interest, such as fighting illicit drug 
trafficking and deforestation in former conflict areas. 
The  Colombian  process  has  been  the  most  inclusive 
peace  process  in  history.  Ensuring  inclusivity  in 
conflict resolution is both the right and the smart thing 
to do, and experience shows that women’s participation 
in  peace  processes  tends  to  increase  the  chances  of 
sustainable peace.
Stability  in  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  is 
another  issue  of  common  interest  to  the  international 
community,  and  it  will  be  crucial  to  achieve  regional 
stability,  improve  States’  capacity  to  govern  and 
increase  cooperation  between  States  in  the  region. 
The  Norwegian  leadership  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison 
Committee  donor  group  for  Palestine  is  an  example 
of  how  institutional  and  economic  development  can 
underpin efforts to resolve a conflict politically.
Development assistance should play a more catalytic 
role  in  our  shared  global  campaign  for  sustainable 
development  by  building  capacity  for  generating 
domestic revenue, strengthening the delivery of public 
services, stimulating trade and job-creating investments 
and enabling individuals to take responsibility for their 
future into their own hands. That is why investing in 
education,  particularly  for  girls,  is  the  most  effective 
way  of  promoting  sustainable  development,  and  why 
we  are  working  hard  to  promote  education  globally. 
Norway has doubled its aid to global education over the 
past four years.
Education  creates  stability  and  hope  for  children 
and young people in conflict areas. Preventing gaps in 
children’s education is also important for post-conflict 
reconstruction and development. That is why Norway 
has significantly increased its contribution to education 
in  emergencies,  with  8  per  cent  of  our  humanitarian 
budget now dedicated to education. Norway has helped 
to  initiate  the  Education  Cannot  Wait  fund,  whose 
purpose is to facilitate global funding to keep children 
in school during conflicts and crises. Schools must also 
be  protected  from  attacks,  which  is  why  Norway  has 
endorsed the Safe Schools Declaration and encourages 
others to do the same.
Further  increases  in  both  domestic  and  external 
financing  will  be  needed  if  we  are  to  attain  SDG  4, 
on  quality  education  for  all.  Last  year,  the  Education 
Commission,  initiated  and  supported  by  Norway, 
delivered a report with recommendations for increasing 
financing  for  education,  including  funding  for  the 
Global  Partnership  for  Education,  Education  Cannot 
Wait  and  a  new  initiative,  the  International  Finance 
Facility for Education. Norway has doubled its support 
for  global  education  through  the  Global  Partnership 
over  the  past  four  years,  and  we  are  committed  to 
working with partners to ensure that the funding for it 
is successfully replenished.
The  fight  against  terrorism  is  a  core  interest  that 
we all share. Groups such as the Islamic State in Iraq 
and the Levant (ISIL) cannot be allowed to challenge 
our  free  and  open  societies.  Together  we  are  making 
decisive  progress  against  ISIL  in  Syria  and  Iraq,  and 
we can now look forward to a time when ISIL will be 
defeated  territorially.  Norway  is  making  significant 
contributions to the international coalition in every way 
17-29852
25/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
it  can,  and  we  are  also  providing  humanitarian  relief 
to those affected. We have disbursed $500 million for 
the  Syria  crisis  since  2016,  which  means  that  we  are 
on  track  to  fulfil  the  pledge  we  made  at  the  London 
donor conference. We must now strengthen our efforts 
to  secure  sustainable  peace  in  those  areas,  and  the 
Security Council must step up and take responsibility. 
We  should  increase  our  efforts  to  alleviate  other 
large-scale  humanitarian  crises,  such  as  those  in 
Yemen, South Sudan and the Lake Chad basin.
We  also  need  a  strong,  unified  Security  Council 
to help us deal with the North Korean nuclear-weapon 
programme  and  ballistic-missile  tests.  A  political 
solution  will  be  crucial  to  ensuring  the  security  of 
us all.
Our 
shared 
to 
commitment 
sustainable 
development  includes  the  commitment  to  leaving  no 
one  behind.  Norway’s  humanitarian  assistance  this 
year,  which  amounts  to  approximately  $650  million, 
supports  that  cause.  Today  142  million  people  are  in 
need  of  humanitarian  assistance  and  protection,  the 
highest number since the end of the Second World War. 
Many of the current humanitarian crises are conflict-
related, and it is more important than ever to ensure the 
protection  of  civilians  in  such  circumstances.  We  are 
very concerned about the lack of respect being shown 
for  international  humanitarian  law.  We  underline  the 
obligation  of  all  the  parties  to  a  conflict  to  protect 
civilians  and  ensure  safe,  unimpeded  humanitarian 
access to all people in need. Norway is working actively 
to  strengthen  respect  for  international  humanitarian 
law among parties to armed conflicts.
Putting sustainability first means acting together to 
save the oceans. We applaud the Secretary-General for 
appointing the first-ever Special Envoy for the Ocean. 
We congratulate Mr. Lajčák’s predecessor as President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  on  his 
appointment to that important job and wish him every 
success  in  galvanizing  global  efforts  to  protect  the 
world’s oceans. If we are to be able to harvest resources 
from the oceans in the future, we must ensure that they 
are  clean  and  healthy.  And  it  is  important  for  small 
island developing States — also known as large-ocean 
States  —  to  join  forces  to  find  good  solutions  that 
promote  the  health  and  sustainability  of  our  oceans. 
It  was  against  that  backdrop  that  Norway  hosted  a 
meeting  at  the  United  Nations  this  week  to  explore 
the  enormous  range  of  opportunities  that  sustainable 
oceans can provide.
The President returned to the Chair.
In conclusion, the United Nations is the backbone 
of our global order, and we need a strong and healthy 
back to address and resolve the challenges the world is 
facing today. We know that we can do it together. The 
United Nations provided the leadership that united the 
countries of the world through the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change, which was an important step towards 
ensuring the sustainability of our planet. We were also 
able to come together in Addis Ababa in 2015 and agree 
on a framework for financing sustainable development, 
which  will  be  crucial  to  our  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  There  are  many 
shared  challenges  that  still  have  to  be  solved,  while 
at  the  same  time  we  must  safeguard  all  that  we  have 
already accomplished together. Those are the tasks that 
we have to tackle together in the General Assembly.
Norway has actively supported the United Nations 
since  it  was  founded.  Through  seven  decades  and 
changing  Norwegian  Governments,  we  have  worked 
tirelessly in and with the United Nations for our common 
interests. Norway is a candidate for membership in the 
Security Council for the period from 2021 to 2022, and 
we are counting on the support of the States Members 
of the United Nations for our candidature.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Maria  Helena  Lopes  de  Jesus  Pires,  Chair  of  the 
Delegation of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste 
to the United Nations.
Ms.  Pires  (Timor-Leste)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have  the 
honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Francisco  Guterres  Lú-Olo,  President 
of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.
“At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
President Miroslav Lajčák on his election and wish 
him  every  success  in  carrying  out  his  duties.  I 
welcome  the  theme  of  the  seventy-second  session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  ‘Focusing  on  people: 
Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on 
a  sustainable  planet’.  Conflict  prevention  and 
peacebuilding  are  without  a  doubt  the  tasks  of 
our generation. I am confident that the President’s 
capable leadership, together with that of Secretary-
General  António  Guterres,  will  encourage  and 
inspire our strong commitment and help us succeed 
in our common objective.
26/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
“It is a happy coincidence that I have been given 
the  opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
today,  the  same  day  on  which,  18  years  ago,  the 
first  members  of  the  International  Force  in  East 
Timor  arrived  in  my  country  from  Australia  and 
New  Zealand.  The  arrival  on  20  September  1999 
of  that  United  Nations-mandated  Force  paved  the 
way  for  our  attainment  of  national  independence, 
which a majority of the Timorese people voted for 
in  a  referendum  on  self-determination  held  under 
United  Nations  supervision.  On  behalf  of  the 
Timorese  people,  I  reiterate  my  gratitude  to  the 
United Nations and to all the civilians and military 
officers under the flag of the United Nations who 
protect innocent people and save lives.
“Another  happy  coincidence  is  that  there 
is  another  key  player  in  the  process  that  led  to 
the  self-determination  of  the  Timorese  people 
among  us  today  —  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres. The determined efforts of Mr. Guterres, 
then  Prime  Minister  of  Portugal,  guided  by  his 
values  and  ethical  imperatives,  were  decisive  in 
ensuring  that  today  Timor-Leste  is  considered  a 
joint success story for the Timorese people and the 
United Nations.
“The history of Timor-Leste is a vivid reminder 
that when the values of civilization, on which the 
very  existence  of  the  United  Nations  is  founded, 
lead us and inspire our decisions on the international 
scene,  the  United  Nations  and  international  law 
become  powerful  and  decisive  forces  for  settling 
conflicts  and  restoring  peace.  This  year  Timor-
Leste  is  celebrating  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of 
the  restoration  of  its  independence,  on  20  May 
2002. Over the past 15 years, the partnerships we 
have  established  with  the  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies  and  development  partners 
have produced important and inspiring results. We 
have achieved what few thought possible.
“The mortality rates of children under the age 
of  5  have  fallen  by  half.  According  to  the  World 
Health  Organization,  Timor-Leste  succeeded  in 
reducing malaria rates from 220 out of 1,000 cases 
in  2006  to  one  in  1,000  in  2012.  In  2002  there 
were  19  doctors  in  Timor-Leste;  today  we  have 
nearly  1,000,  trained  thanks  to  the  cooperation 
and solidarity of the people and the Government of 
Cuba. We have doctors in every village and several 
new  hospitals.  My  country  has  been  declared 
leprosy-free by the World Health Organization for 
the first time in centuries. In 2002, life expectancy 
at birth was 60 years; today it has reached 68.5.
“We  consider  education,  like  health  care,  a 
key  priority.  Our  primary-education  enrolment 
rates  stand  at  nearly  100  per  cent  of  school-age 
children  and  youth.  We  have  recently  introduced 
a new curriculum at the primary-school level and 
we  given  special  priority  in  the  past  few  years 
to  building  new  schools  and  improving  school 
equipment, with the primary objective of these and 
many other measures being improving the quality 
of public schools.
“The progress we have made is reflected in the 
United Nations Development Programme’s Human 
Development  Index,  in  which  our  score  during 
the  past  six  years  has  averaged  0.610.  In  2002,  it 
was 0.375.
“The State of Timor-Leste has also undertaken 
initiatives to increase women’s participation in and 
contribution to the process of social and economic 
development, including by enacting legal measures 
against  discrimination.  Many  East  Timorese 
women occupy important positions in Government, 
the  justice  system,  other  public  institutions  and 
civil  society.  A  third  of  the  members  of  Timor-
Leste’s  national  Parliament  are  women.  However, 
ensuring 
that  women  are  protected  against 
exploitation  and  violence,  as  well  as  giving  full 
recognition to their role in society, still requires the 
Government’s attention.
“The  Timorese  people’s  most 
important 
achievement  during  the  past  15  years  has  been 
in  building  peace  and  reconciliation  at  both 
the  national  and  international  levels.  Peace  and 
reconciliation  have  been  made  possible  thanks  to 
the vision of our national leaders and the courage 
of Timorese society as a whole to reject vengeance 
and genuinely adhere to that vision.
“We  have  established  solid 
relations  of 
friendship  and  close  cooperation  with  Indonesia 
and  Australia.  We  are  working 
further 
strengthen our relations with our neighbours in the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, to which 
we have submitted our application for membership. 
Strengthening  Timor-Leste’s  regional  integration 
is a key priority of our foreign policy.
to 
17-29852
27/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
“In Timor-Leste, now that peace and stability 
have  been  achieved,  we  are  putting  our  efforts 
into  creating  better  conditions  for  economic 
and  social  development.  In  particular,  we  have 
improved  development  conditions  for  small  and 
medium-sized  enterprises  and  the  private  sector, 
and  we  are  promoting  the  diversification  of  the 
non-oil  economy.  This  year  we  also  strengthened 
democracy  through  our  most  recent  presidential 
and  legislative  elections,  which  were  organized 
entirely by the Timorese people.
to  establishing 
“We  believe  that  a  key  condition  for  the 
development  of  the  country  is  ensuring  stable 
and  solid  institutions  that  provide  quality  public 
services.  This  is  why  my  country  supported  the 
inclusion  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development of Sustainable Development Goal 16 
on peace, justice and strong institutions. We believe 
that  there  can  be  no  development  without  peace, 
and the importance of peace for development is a 
priority  for  us  that  has  been  reflected  in  Timor-
Leste’s  commitment 
the  g7+ 
since  2009.  The  g7+  brings  together  a  couple  of 
dozen  States  that  are  emerging  from  conflict  or 
in  a  situation  of  fragility.  The  Group’s  action 
has  had  tangible,  positive  results  in  relationships 
with  development  partners  and  in  bilateral  and 
multilateral cooperation. We have seen these mutual 
advantages  in  the  cooperation  that  has  resulted 
among fragile States in relevant areas such as peace 
and  reconciliation,  the  management  of  natural 
resources  and  the  stewardship  of  public  finances. 
Many  of  the  member  States  of  the  g7+  have  also 
hosted or are hosting United Nations peacekeeping 
missions, putting them in the privileged position of 
being able to share their valuable experience with 
regard  to  areas  of  peacekeeping  that  have  been 
successful and those that need improvement.
“Our national experience has taught us to value 
multilateralism  as  an  important  instrument  for 
responding  to  challenges  within  the  international 
system,  but  that  is  not  the  only  reason  we  value 
it.  Another  is  the  2030  Agenda,  which  embodies 
multilateralism’s  potential 
the 
planet and the well-being of its peoples. The 2030 
Agenda has benefited from the overall experience 
of  the  process  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  and  its  success  will  benefit  the  many 
millions  who  have  been  deprived  of  basic  human 
improving 
for 
rights  through  poverty.  Only  through  dialogue, 
negotiation,  multilateral  cooperation  and  respect 
for democracy can we meet the ambitious goals we 
have established for 2030.
the 
that 
“Today 
international  community 
is 
facing  unprecedented  challenge 
require 
multilateral  cooperation  and  a  global  response. 
Climate  change  is  already  having  a  growing 
impact  on  the  development  conditions  for  society 
and  on  the  future  of  the  planet.  The  effect  on 
food  security,  among  other  things,  is  central  to 
our  concerns  and  has  been  the  target  of  several 
Government measures, including within the scope 
of  multilateral  cooperation  in  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries, which we recently 
had the honour of presiding over. For small island 
developing  States,  the  effects  of  climate  change 
represent an existential issue that requires attention 
and effort from us all.
“International cooperation in the fight against 
transnational  crime  at  all  levels  is  a  top  priority 
for Timor-Leste. We, the international community, 
have  an  inalienable  duty  to  work  to  realize  the 
values of civilization enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations and its conventions. Timor-Leste is 
a participant in a number of important multilateral 
processes  for  regional  and  international  stability 
and security, and we will continue to expand and 
deepen that participation.
threats 
is  facing 
“The  world 
that  were 
unimaginable  when  the  United  Nations  was  first 
established. The Organization must be capable of 
responding to the new challenges facing humankind. 
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  express  Timor-
Leste’s full support for the ongoing reform process 
led  by  the  Secretary-General,  particularly  with 
regard  to  the  United  Nations  development  system 
and its management of areas such as peacekeeping, 
security,  gender  parity  and  strategies  against 
sexual exploitation and abuse, as well as his recent 
establishment  of  a  High-level  Advisory  Board  on 
Mediation and the Office of Counter-Terrorism
“The world is currently confronting two huge 
threats  to  international  peace,  the  hotbeds  of  war 
in  the  Middle  East  and  the  nuclearization  of  the 
Korean  peninsula  and  escalating  tensions  there. 
My country urges all the parties involved, in both 
regions,  to  show  the  greatest  possible  restraint  in 
28/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
order  to  avoid  any  steps  that  could  aggravate  the 
situation.  Timor-Leste  calls  on  all  the  parties  to 
fully respect the relevant international conventions 
and  Security  Council  resolutions.  In  particular,  I 
call  for  dialogue  and  negotiation  to  help  defuse 
the  tensions  and  promote  a  peaceful  settlement 
of  the  conflict  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  Timor-
Leste  supports  non-proliferation  and  nuclear 
disarmament and is in the process of signing and 
ratifying  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons, which it expects to conclude in 
the near future.
“My  country  welcomes  the  prospect  of  the 
holding  of  an  intergovernmental  conference  on 
migration  next  year  and  considers  it  urgent  to 
improve  the  coordination  of  the  international 
community and the quality of the shelter for these 
massive  movements  of  migrants  and  refugees. 
We  must  also  tackle  the  root  of  the  problem  by 
increasing development opportunities in depressed 
regions and reducing the drivers of migration flows.
“Ensuring  that  the  people  of  Western  Sahara 
can finally exercise their right to self-determination 
continues  to  be  postponed.  For  26  years,  the 
Sahrawi  have  been  peacefully  waiting  for  the 
parties to comply with the relevant United Nations 
resolutions. I call for dialogue between the Kingdom 
of  Morocco,  the  legitimate  representatives  of  the 
Sahrawi  people  and  the  United  Nations  aimed  at 
arriving at a solution as soon as possible that can 
ensure  the  holding  of  a  referendum  on  the  self-
determination  of  the  people  of  Western  Sahara. 
I  also  call  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  on  the 
Republic  of  Cuba,  an  anachronistic  situation  that 
the international community has broadly rejected.
“I  am  very  pleased  to  inform  the  General 
Assembly that Timor-Leste and Australia have made 
important and decisive progress in the talks on the 
demarcation of our shared maritime border. Timor-
Leste  initiated  the  settlement  process  required 
under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law 
of the Sea in April of last year. This mechanism, 
initiated  for  the  first  time  in  history,  has  enabled 
both countries to recently agree in principle on the 
central elements of the delimitation of the maritime 
borders  of  the  Timor  Sea.  It  has  reaffirmed  our 
faith in the ability of the international legal system, 
and  in  particular  the  United  Nations,  to  support 
all States. We want to point out that thanks to the 
United Nations and its procedures, it will now be 
possible for us to take one of our final steps towards 
achieving  full  sovereignty.  We  also  hope  that  in 
these times of global complexity and uncertainty, 
our  success  in  that  process  will  set  a  small  but 
positive example for the international community.
“In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize 
Timor-Leste’s  commitment 
the  multilateral 
system.  Timor-Leste  will  continue  to  cooperate 
closely and at every level with efforts to maintain 
regional  and  international  security  and  stability. 
Our  people  greatly  appreciate  the  support  of  the 
international community.”
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Mrs.  María  Rubiales  de  Chamorro,  Chair  of  the 
Delegation of the Republic of Nicaragua.
to 
Mrs.  Rubiales  de  Chamorro  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  Mr.  President,  please  accept  warm 
greetings  from  our  President,  Commander  Daniel 
Ortega Saavedra, our Vice-President, Rosario Murillo, 
and the people of Nicaragua, who wish you success in 
the great responsibility that you have taken on.
Many of the issues on the agenda during this session 
are of vital importance to the survival of our peoples. 
This year we have witnessed a world in upheaval, driven 
by multiple crises, including violations of international 
law  and  the  sovereignty  of  our  peoples,  wars  and 
threats of the use of force, and increased poverty and 
inequality. However, before I go into them, I would like 
to  share  my  President’s  reflections  summarizing  the 
political  will  and  course  of  action  that  must  guide  us 
if we are to achieve a better and more peaceful world.
the  commitment 
“We  must  uphold 
to 
continuing  to  fight  for  peace,  which  is  the  global 
priority  of  all  of  our  peoples,  and  to  ensuring 
that  the  conflicts  that  arise  in  various  parts  of 
the  world  can  be  overcome  through  dialogue  and 
negotiation. Above all, we must ensure that we are 
free from the use or the threat of the use of force, 
which is what our peoples desire the most from the 
peoples of the great Powers towards countries with 
small  populations —  countries  that  may  be  small 
in  development  but  that  are  great  in  their  values 
and history.”
That  should  be  the  permanent  commitment  of  the 
United Nations.
17-29852
29/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government 
of  Nicaragua,  I  would  like  to  express  our  solidarity 
with  all  the  brothers  and  sisters  of  the  Greater 
Caribbean  —  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Bahamas,  Cuba, 
Dominica,  Puerto  Rico,  the  Dominican  Republic  and 
all the other islands affected by the recent devastating 
meteorological events that are becoming more intense 
and more frequent every day — and with our brothers 
and sisters the people and the Government of Mexico, 
for  the  two  catastrophic  earthquakes  that  occurred 
there.  Our  condolences  and  prayers  go  to  all  of  the 
families who have lost loved ones and to the people and 
the Government of the United States for the hurricanes 
that have caused major damage in the states of Texas 
and Florida.
Let  us  focus  on  the  importance  of  eradicating 
poverty. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
represents one of the most important achievements in 
the history of our Organization. It is a framework for 
the struggle for a just world order, so that together, in 
peace,  solidarity  and  complementarity,  we  can  make 
progress on eradicating poverty. It is deplorable that so 
much poverty still persists and that inequalities are now 
more  marked  than  ever.  But  this  development  agenda 
will mean nothing to our peoples if we, the peoples of 
the world, do not display the political will, commitment 
and solidarity we need to promote human development 
with  social  justice  and  environmental  policies  that 
protect the planet in harmony with nature and ensure 
the survival of the human species and the life and rights 
of Mother Earth.
Seventy-two  years  on,  our  Organization  is  still 
unable to fully comply with the objectives set out in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  need  fundamental 
reform  urgently  if  we  are  to  tackle  that  unfortunate 
situation. To achieve that, we must promote the crucial 
changes that will enable the Organization to serve the 
interests of humankind. We would like to point out that, 
during his presidency of the General Assembly in 2008, 
the late Father Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann, whom we 
rightly call Nicaragua’s Chancellor of Dignity — may 
he rest in peace — worked on and fought until the very 
end for that fundamental reform, laying the groundwork 
for discussing these changes. In that regard, it will be 
vital to reform the Security Council in order to ensure 
that its composition and function reflect the geopolitical 
and economic realities of the international community 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  Negotiations  on  the  issue 
must enter a more dynamic phase as soon as possible, 
and a negotiating text must be prepared with the goal 
of reaching the necessary agreements and proceeding 
with  these  reforms  during  the  Assembly’s  seventy-
second session.
take 
the 
We  urgently  need  ambitious  action  to  combat 
climate  change.  We  note  with  great  concern  the 
unprecedented  temperatures  that  are  being  registered 
all over the world and the lack of interest in reducing 
greenhouse-gas  emissions.  The  developed  countries 
must 
their  unsustainable 
patterns  of  production  and  consumption  and  above 
all  meet  their  financial  commitments  and  complete 
their  technology  transfers.  The  Government  and  the 
people  of  Nicaragua  will  continue  to  advocate  for 
a  commitment  to  climate  justice,  as  well  as  for  an 
essential  compensation  policy  that  can  be  translated 
into direct and unconditional assistance.
lead,  change 
the 
We  have  welcomed 
re-establishment  of 
relations  between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of 
America, but it is upsetting that we are still seeing not 
only the restoration of measures aimed at maintaining 
the  cruel,  inhuman  and  criminal  economic,  financial 
and  commercial  embargo  on  Cuba  but  also  threats  to 
its  sovereignty.  From  this  rostrum,  we  join  the  other 
voices  around  the  world  saying  no  to  the  blockade  of 
the heroic people of Cuba, of Fidel, Raúl, and Martí.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  and  its 
Bolivarian revolution continue to contend with foreign 
harassment, interference and aggression. We condemn 
the  threats  of  the  use  of  force  or  military  options 
made by the President of the United States against the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, a threat that, as has 
been expressed by Nicaragua’s President,
“has  no  place.  The  cry  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean is unanimous — nobody wants military 
intervention from the United States. No one is asking 
the United States to come and intervene militarily 
in any Latin American or Caribbean country.”
We  proclaim  our  unconditional  solidarity  with  the 
peoples of Bolívar and Chávez, and with the Government 
led by its constitutional President Nicolás Maduro and 
his people in their sovereign decision to democratically 
elect  a  Constituent  National  Assembly.  Dialogue  and 
negotiation  are  the  only  way  forward  for  peace  and 
reconciliation for the great Venezuelan family.
We  wish  our  brothers  in  Colombia  every  success 
in  implementing  their  peace  accord.  Our  President 
30/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
has said that Colombia is proving that there can be no 
military solution to such conflicts, and that after more 
than 50 years of war, in the end it was negotiations that 
prevailed. We congratulate Colombia.
We salute and will always stand in solidarity with 
the  struggles  of  the  peoples  under  occupation  of  the 
Latin American and Caribbean country of Puerto Rico; 
of Western Sahara, under the leadership of the Frente 
Polisario; and of the Argentine Republic in its legitimate 
sovereign  rights  over  its  Malvinas  Islands.  Nicaragua 
reiterates its commitment to the establishment of two 
States  of  Israel  and  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital, based on the 1967 borders, with both peoples 
and Governments living in peace and harmony.
We 
reiterate  our 
total  solidarity  with 
the 
Government and People of Syria in their fight against 
international terrorism and defence of their sovereignty 
and territorial integrity. We emphasize the need for a 
political and negotiated solution between Syrians and 
an  end  to  foreign  intervention,  including  financing, 
military  training  and  supplying  arms  to  terrorist 
groups, so that there may finally be peace. We are very 
concerned about the increase in terrorist attacks on our 
brother peoples and condemn terrorism in all its forms 
and manifestations.
general 
and 
supports 
Nicaragua 
complete 
disarmament  and  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons.  Yesterday  we  signed  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Verbal confrontations 
and  threats  of  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons  are 
unacceptable. We must work to advance commitments 
to  eliminating  nuclear  arsenals  around  the  world 
until  they  are  gone  forever,  and  to  use  the  enormous 
resources expended on them to eradicate poverty. The 
situation on the Korean peninsula is of great concern. 
Nuclear tests contribute nothing to peace and should be 
condemned. We call for a political and peaceful solution 
to  this  dangerous  military  scenario  through  dialogue 
and  negotiation,  thereby  ending  the  nuclearization  of 
that  region  and  achieving  reunification  and  peace  on 
the Korean peninsula.
If we are to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals,  we  must  repeal  unilateral  coercive  measures 
that violate international law and hinder our countries’ 
development  plans.  The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development was adopted on the basis of the principle 
of  universality.  It  is  therefore  vital  to  ensure  that  no 
one  is  left  behind,  and  that  includes  the  23  million 
Taiwanese  who  are  entitled  to  participate  in  the 
implementation of this global agenda. Taiwan is willing 
and  able  to  participate  in  and  contribute  to  the  wide 
range of substantive United Nations programmes aimed 
at improving the well-being of humankind.
We  in  Central  America  are  strengthening  our 
integration in every area and working with our brothers 
and  sisters  to  combat  the  scourges  of  terrorism, 
drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime,  as  well  as  to 
transform  the  Gulf  of  Fonseca  into  a  zone  of  peace 
and development. Our Government continues to work 
for  the  restoration  of  the  political,  economic,  social 
and  cultural  rights  of  all  Nicaraguans,  with  historic 
and  significant  results  in  the  areas  of  equity,  gender, 
investment,  development  and  security.  Nicaragua  has 
been  recognized  by  the  World  Economic  Forum  as 
having  one  of  the  best  records  on  gender  equity  in 
Latin America and indeed the world. Civil and human 
security  is  one  of  our  main  strengths.  That  security 
is  fundamental  to  social,  political  and  economic 
stability, promoting a better quality of life, tranquillity, 
justice,  peaceful  coexistence  and  the  comprehensive 
development of families.
In  that  regard,  Nicaragua  has  developed  a  series 
of  specific  policies  and  programmes  for  combating 
the  scourges  of  our  time,  such  as  terrorism,  crime, 
drug  trafficking,  trafficking  of  arms  and  human 
trafficking,  with  very  positive  results.  Working  with 
communities has led to a successful collaboration that 
makes  Nicaragua  one  of  the  safest  countries  in  the 
region  and  one  of  the  least  vulnerable  to  organized 
crime.  We  have  succeeded  in  that  by  consolidating  a 
serious, constructive and transparent alliance between 
the Government, workers and the private sector, based 
on the model for alliance, dialogue and consensus that 
we  have  implemented  while  also  relying  on  valuable 
international assistance, for which we are grateful.
My  country  has  been  working  extremely  hard 
to  make  progress  in  the  fight  against  poverty.  We 
therefore condemn the initiative of a group of United 
States congressmen who are attempting to damage the 
economy of Nicaraguan families through a bill known as 
the Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality Act (NICA), 
currently in the United States Senate, aimed at blocking 
Nicaragua’s  access  to  international  organizations’ 
programme  funds  for  combating  poverty.  We  want  to 
remind the members of the United States Congress that 
there  is  a  judgment  outstanding  by  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  in  The  Hague,  ordering  the  United 
17-29852
31/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
despite 
States  to  compensate  the  people  of  Nicaragua  for 
damages  incurred  from  the  loss  of  life  and  materials 
caused  by  acts  of  terrorism  committed  by  President 
Reagan’s  Administration 
congressional 
opposition, including using drug traffickers to launder 
money  in  order  to  finance  a  war  against  Nicaragua 
while  circumventing  congressional  bans.  Nicaragua 
hopes  that  Congress  will  comply  faithfully  with  the 
verdict of the International Court of Justice, which has 
ordered that Nicaragua be compensated and that bills 
such  as  the  NICA  Act,  promoted  by  people  bent  on 
harming Nicaraguan families, be rejected.
In  conclusion,  I  would  once  again  like  to  quote 
my President:
“Here before the General Assembly, Nicaragua 
vows  to  consistently  advocate  for  peace,  stability 
and security in every part of our planet, in every 
forum,  through  every  mechanism  and  with  every 
nation with which we have relations.”
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would like to 
remind members that statements in exercise of the right 
of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and five minutes for the second, and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Hau  Do  Suan  (Myanmar):  My  delegation 
has asked for the floor to exercise its right of reply to 
the  irresponsible  remarks  made  by  some  delegations 
about  my  country  in  the  past  few  days  during  the 
course  of  the  general  debate.  It  is  deeply  regrettable 
that  unsubstantiated  allegations  have  been  repeated 
in  this  Hall  that  liken  the  situation  in  Rakhine  state 
to ethnic cleansing. Nothing is further from the truth. 
Terms  such  as  “atrocities”,  “ethnic  cleansing”,  and 
“genocide”  should  not  be  used  lightly  and  only  when 
there is solid evidence. Atrocities, ethnic cleansing and 
genocide  are  very  serious  charges  that  require  legal 
review and judicial determination. They should not be 
bandied about or used loosely. Myanmar objects in the 
strongest terms to the use by delegations of words such 
as  “atrocities”  and  “ethnic  cleansing”  in  reference  to 
the  situation  in  Myanmar.  I  would  like  to  urge  them 
and the international community as a whole to see the 
situation  in  northern  Rakhine  objectively  and  in  an 
unbiased manner.
Let me be clear. There is no ethnic cleansing. There 
is no genocide. The leaders of Myanmar, who have long 
been  striving  for  freedom  and  human  rights,  will  not 
espouse  such  policies.  We  will  do  everything  we  can 
to prevent ethnic cleansing and genocide. The issue of 
Rakhine state is extremely complex. I will not dwell on 
the details, since our Vice-President already addressed 
the issue at length on 20 September (see A/72/PV.10).
It is the responsibility of every Government to fight 
terrorism and protect innocent civilians. We condemn 
all human rights violations and violent acts. As members 
are  aware,  on  25  August,  within  hours  of  the  release 
of the report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine 
State, a series of coordinated attacks were carried out 
on  30  police  outposts  in  northern  Rakhine  state.  The 
so-called  Arakan  Rohingya  Salvation  Army  (ARSA) 
has  claimed  responsibility  for  the  attacks,  and  the 
Government of Myanmar subsequently declared ARSA 
to be a terrorist group. The highest Islamic organization 
in  Myanmar,  the  All  Myanmar  Islamic  Religious 
Organization, has also issued a statement condemning 
the  terrorist  attacks  in  Rakhine  state.  The  vicious 
attacks have resulted in the loss of life and property and 
the  displacement  of  peoples.  Those  who  have  had  to 
abandon their hearths and homes are many — not just 
Muslim  and  Rakhine,  but  also  small  minority  groups 
such  as  Daingnet,  Mro,  Thet,  Mramagyi  and  Hindus. 
Most  of  the  world  has  been  unaware  of  the  existence 
and plight of those small groups.
In  the  affected  area  of  northern  Rakhine,  the 
Muslim  community  is  not  a  minority,  as  is  widely 
reported.  They  are  in  fact  a  majority,  because  their 
population  has  increased,  and  they  now  constitute 
95  per  cent  of  the  total  population  in  the  area.  The 
evil nature of the ARSA terrorist group was revealed 
once again yesterday, when the authorities discovered 
a mass grave of 28 Hindu villagers, including women 
and children, cruelly and brutally killed by the ARSA. 
Today another 17 bodies have been unearthed, those of 
some of the 93 Hindu villagers who have been reported 
missing since the attacks on 25 August. When it comes 
to terrorism, there can be no choices. The world cannot 
condone terrorism in any form or manifestation for any 
reason. We must stand together to eliminate it.
The Assembly may be asking, what of the exodus? 
There  are  several  reasons  for  it.  Prominent  among 
them is the fear factor. Following the terrorist attacks 
and  the  security  operation,  most  women  and  children 
were  forced  to  flee,  while  the  men  were  conscripted 
32/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
into ARSA to fight the security forces. Many villages 
were  intimidated  into  fleeing  to  Bangladesh  so  as  to 
attract  international  attention.  The  scorched-earth 
policy of the terrorists is another factor. The seeds of 
terror were meticulously sown long before the attack. 
Villagers  considered  to  be  collaborating  with  the 
Government  were  brutally  murdered.  The  terrorists 
planted  improvised  explosive  devices  everywhere, 
blew up bridges and committed arson. The Government 
is  striving  to  restore  normalcy,  and  the  situation  has 
improved.  Since  5  September,  there  have  been  no 
armed clashes.
At  present,  humanitarian  assistance  is  our  top 
priority. We are committed to ensuring that all in need 
receive  aid,  without  discrimination.  We  have  already 
dedicated  significant  national  funds  and  resources 
to  humanitarian  relief  operations.  Relief  aid  and 
assistance has been being provided immediately after 
the  attacks.  Now  more  effective  measures  are  being 
put in place by the Government. A new Government-
led  mechanism,  established  in  cooperation  with  the 
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, 
has  begun  to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to  all 
displaced  inhabitants.  We  are  also  discussing  with 
our  fellow  member  countries  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  the  possibility  of 
utilizing the ASEAN Humanitarian Assistance Centre 
to provide much-needed humanitarian assistance to all 
the affected communities in Rakhine state.
The Government of Myanmar is fully committed to 
solving the issue of Rakhine state. The recommendations 
of  the  Advisory  Commission  on  Rakhine  State  have 
given  us  a  clear  road  map,  and  the  recently  formed 
ministerial-level 
Implementation  Committee  has 
already  begun  its  work.  On  22  September,  State 
Counsellor  Daw  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  met  with  the 
Committee and set out the immediate tasks.
I would like to reiterate that refugees who have fled 
to  Bangladesh  will  be  repatriated  to  Myanmar,  based 
on  the  experience  of  1993.  We  will  be  setting  up  a 
working group for verification as quickly as possible in 
order to conduct a systematic verification process. The 
Government is organizing a visit on 28 September for 
the diplomatic corps to the affected areas in northern 
Rakhine state so that they will have the opportunity to 
witness first-hand the situation on the ground. We are 
also reaching out to the Bangladesh side to find a way 
to solve the problem of refugees.
Mr. Ghaniei (Islamic Republic of Iran): We have 
requested the floor in exercise of the right of reply in 
reaction  to  some  statements,  including  the  baseless 
claims  made  by  representatives  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain during the current 
general debate. The representative of the United Arab 
Emirates, in his address on Friday, 22 September (see 
A/72/PV.18),  made  several  unfounded  allegations 
against my country.
It  is  regrettable  to  see  that,  year  after  year, 
representatives  of  that  country  resort  to  the  same 
fabrications against my country. If they think that by 
repeating a lie often enough it becomes the truth, then 
they are wholly mistaken, as in reality that proposition 
is  itself  a  lie.  From  backing  the  invasion  imposed  by 
Saddam  Hussein  against  my  country,  to  participation 
in the coalition of death in Yemen and spreading takfiri 
extremism, the officials of the United Arab Emirates, 
along  with  Saudi  Arabia,  have  long  opted  for  vicious 
interventionist  policies  that  have  spread  instability 
and chaos in the region and inflicted misery upon its 
people. As their policies continue to bring about death 
and destruction in our region, from Syria to Yemen, it is 
farcical that Saudi Arabian and United Arab Emirates 
representatives  have  the  audacity  to  accuse  Iran  of 
supporting terrorism and interfering in other countries’ 
internal affairs.
The  three  islands  of  Abu  Musa,  Greater  Tunb 
and  Lesser  Tunb  in  the  Persian  Gulf  have  been  and 
continue  to  be  an  inseparable  and  integral  part  of 
Iranian  territory,  and  Iran  reiterates  its  sovereignty 
over those islands. Therefore, any claim to the contrary 
is  categorically  rejected.  Meanwhile,  the  Government 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, in line with its policy 
of  friendship  and  good-neighbourliness  towards  all 
neighbouring  countries,  stands  ready  to  discuss  any 
possible  misunderstandings  with 
its  neighbours. 
However, it is obvious that the territorial integrity and 
sovereignty  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  over  said 
islands are not negotiable.
The  representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
should also be reminded that the term “Persian Gulf” 
has been the correct appellation for the body of water 
situated between the Arabian peninsula and the Iranian 
plateau since 500 B.C., and will remain so forever.
Allow  me  to  also  briefly  refer  to  the  statement 
made  on  Saturday,  23  September  (see  A/72/PV.20) 
by the representative of the regime of Bahrain, which 
17-29852
33/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
contained  many  of 
the  aforementioned  baseless 
allegations, which we have vehemently rejected. Those 
illusory  accusations  amount  to  desperate  efforts  to 
cover  up  the  violation  by  the  oppressive  regime  of 
Bahrain  of  the  basic  human  rights  of  the  majority  of 
the Bahraini people. By leveling those allegations, the 
ruling family seeks to justify its tyranny, oppression and 
blatant trampling of the rights of the Bahraini people, 
who  are  deprived  of  any  meaningful  participation  in 
the running of the country.
Let me conclude by once again reiterating our call 
for dialogue with a view to dispelling misunderstandings 
and  restoring  friendly  relations  among  all  countries 
neighbouring the Persian Gulf region.
Ms. Nuran (Indonesia): The delegation of Indonesia 
is compelled to exercise our right of reply to respond to 
the statements made by the representatives of Vanuatu 
and Solomon Islands and echoed by the representatives 
of  Tuvalu  and  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
concerning Papua and West Papua.
This  is  one  time  too  many  that  a  hoax  and  false 
allegations  are  being  circulated  by  individuals  who 
are  economically  motivated  by  the  separatist  agenda 
of  Papua  and  their  supporters.  Time  and  time  again, 
the  same  fabricated  and  false  accusations  are  thrown 
at us. Those countries are sadly blindfolded. They fail 
to understand, or more precisely, refuse to understand.
The  provinces  of  Papua  and  West  Papua  have 
undergone massive development and progress. During 
the past three years, 4,325 kilometres of roads, 30 new 
seaports  and  7  new  airports  were  built;  2.8  million 
Papuans have received free basic health care; 360,000 
Papuan  students  have  received  free  education,  while 
the economy has grown at a rate of 9.21 per cent. All of 
that makes Papua and West Papua provinces the fastest 
growing regions in Indonesia.
The  provinces  of  Papua  and  West  Papua  are 
an  integral  and  sovereign  part  of  Indonesia.  They 
will  always  remain  an  integral  part  of  Indonesia. 
Those  countries  have  been  foolishly  deceived  by 
individuals — I repeat, individuals — with a separatist 
agenda to exploit the issue of human rights. If human 
rights  are  at  the  heart  of  the  issue,  why  were  those 
concerns not raised in the appropriate forum, namely, 
the  third  cycle  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  of 
Indonesia at the United Nations Human Rights Council? 
If  Indonesia  had  anything  to  hide  concerning  human 
rights  issues  in  this  day  and  age  of  open  technology, 
by  now  everybody  would  know  if  such  accusations 
even existed.
Indonesia fails to understand how countries continue 
to  support  separatist  activities  in  other  countries.  Is 
that a way to hide from one’s own domestic problems? 
Do those countries have a perfect human rights track 
record?  Obviously  their  motivation  in  this  body  is  to 
dismember the territorial integrity of a sovereign and 
independent nation. Such actions are illegal, must not 
be  condoned  and  violate  the  fundamental  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
cannot  let  that  happen.  We  cannot  let  it  continue. 
Indonesia  categorically  rejects  all  accusations  made 
by those countries and the individuals with separatist 
agendas operating behind them.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  quoting  an  old 
Indonesian proverb: if you slap the water in a bucket, 
then  be  careful  of  the  water  splashing  over  your 
own face.
Ms. Tripathi (India): I take the floor to respond to 
the statement made by the Permanent Representative of 
Pakistan, in exercise of the right of reply, on Saturday, 
23 September (see A/72/PV.22).
The  Permanent  Representative  of  Pakistan  in  her 
statement  yet  again  sought  to  divert  attention  from 
Pakistan’s  role  as  the  hub  of  global  terrorism.  She 
did so by callously holding up a picture of an injured 
girl.  It  was  a  photograph  of  Rawya  abu  Jom’a,  a  girl 
from Palestine. The picture was taken on 22 July 2014 
by  an  American  photographer,  Heidi  Levine.  The 
photograph was published by The New York Times on 
24 March 2015, under the caption, “Conflict, Courage 
and  Healing  in  Gaza”.  The  Permanent  Representative 
of  Pakistan  misled  the  Assembly  by  displaying  that 
picture  to  spread  falsehoods  about  India  —  a  fake 
picture to push a completely false narrative.
In view of that cynical and misleading attempt by 
Pakistan,  we  are  constrained  to  show  the  Assembly 
a  photograph  that  reflects  the  real  picture  of  pain 
inflicted by the nefarious designs of Pakistan on India. 
This  is  a  real  —  not  a  fake  —  picture  of  Lieutenant 
Umar Fayaz, a young officer from the Indian state of 
Jammu  and  Kashmir.  Umar  Fayaz  was  kidnapped  at 
a  wedding  celebration.  He  was  brutally  tortured  and 
killed  by  Pakistan  supported  terrorists  in  May  2017. 
This  is  a  true  picture.  It  portrays  a  harsh  and  tragic 
reality — a picture of terrorism emanating from across 
our borders that the people of India, especially in the 
34/38 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
state  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  have  to  struggle  with 
every  day.  This  is  the  reality  which  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Pakistan  sought  to  obfuscate.  The 
true face of Pakistan is not hidden from anyone.
Ms. Hessa AlAteibi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): I speak in exercise of my right to reply to the 
statement made by the representative of Iran.
Similarly, 
First, the three islands of Abu Musa, Greater Tunb 
and Lesser Tunb are an integral part of the territory of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates.  We  categorically  reject  all 
of Iran’s allegations regarding the three islands, which 
are occupied by Iran. I call on the Islamic Republic of 
Iran to act fairly and use peaceful means, especially the 
International Court of Justice, to resolve this problem.
the  nuclear 
agreement  to  interfere  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other 
States  in  the  region.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
pursues  expansionist  regional  policies  and  seeks  to 
export its problems and terrorism to other States while 
interfering in the internal affairs of Arab States. Iran 
is playing a negative role that has a destabilizing effect 
on our region. Any interference in our country by Iran 
is completely unacceptable, and we must denounce it.
Iran  cannot  exploit 
The Islamic Republic of Iran is supporting terrorism, 
especially through Hizbullah in Lebanon and Syria, the 
Houthis in Yemen, and other groups in Saudi Arabia and 
Kuwait. With regard to the coalition for the restoration 
of legitimacy in Iran, which the Iranian representative 
mentioned,  it  has  played  a  fundamental  role,  through 
the  United  Nations  and  elsewhere,  to  ensure  respect 
for  legality  and  legitimacy  in  Iran.  The  coalition  was 
set  up  for  that  purpose  under  the  leadership  of  Saudi 
Arabia,  and  it  has  sought  to  save  Yemen  and  uphold 
its  sovereignty  by  rejecting  any  interference  by  Iran 
in other States. Morever, only a political process will 
allow Yemen to emerge from its crisis, in accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolution  2216  (2015)  and  the 
Gulf Cooperation Council resolutions.
Iran  has  helped  the  Houthis  in  Yemen  through 
military  and  logistical  means,  while  weapons  and 
munitions  have  been  sent  illegally  to  that  country,  in 
complete  violation  of  Security  Council  resolutions 
2216  (2015)  and  2231  (2015).  Iran  has  sent  weapons 
and  munitions  to  Yemen,  which  is  evidence  of  its 
expansionist role in the region and of the threat it poses 
to Yemeni civilians and the other neighbours of Yemen. 
Such weapons have been sent not just to the Houthis, 
but  also  to  other  groups  that  are  loyal  to  the  former 
President Saleh.
We therefore call on the international community to 
take all steps necessary to ensure that Iran ceases all of 
these illegal measures. The coalition has always sought 
a political solution to the problem, but that solution has 
always been rebuffed by the Houthis.
Ms.  Hamad  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 
response to the statement made by the representative of 
Iran, the entire world is aware of the actions taken by 
Iran in the past and the present, including interference 
in the internal affairs of others, aggression and support 
for terrorist groups and sectarian hatred. Iran must stop 
these  serious  human  rights  violations  against  its  own 
people.  The  Iranian  regime,  through  its  expansionist 
and  aggressive  practices  towards  its  neighbours,  has 
clearly  undermined  peace  and  security  in  the  region 
and the entire world.
We call on the international community to assume 
its  responsibility  to  confront  these  hateful  actions  of 
Iran  through  its  support  for  terrorism,  intervention, 
interference in domestic affairs and aggression against 
the  sovereignty  and  the  territories  of  other  countries. 
These  actions  have  devastating  effects  on  the  people 
and countries in the region.
Mr.  Usman  (Pakistan):  Pakistan  would  like  to 
exercise its right of reply to the statement just made by 
the representative of India.
No  matter  how  many  times  one  repeats  a  lie,  it 
does not and cannot hide the truth. The representative 
of India has once again chosen to divert the attention 
of  the  international  community  from  the  real  issue: 
human  life;  human  eyes  —  those  of  children  and 
infants — that are blinded forever; and women who are 
raped and the elderly people killed every day under the 
reign of brutality unleashed by the Indian occupation 
forces  in  Indian-occupied  Jammu  and  Kashmir.  The 
real issue is that India refuses to implement the Security 
Council resolutions.
Distracting  the  debate  by  displaying  pictures  has 
backfired. India’s own people do not buy its argument. 
India,  which  kills  and  tortures  innocent  Kashmiris, 
is  seeking  to  hide  behind  a  photograph.  This  shows 
its  desperation  and  a  vain  effort  to  conceal  its  guilt. 
Indian State terrorism has been amply documented by 
successive human rights reports of various international 
17-29852
35/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
organizations. There are thousands of pictures to prove 
Indian State terrorism.
Kashmiris will never be defeated. Kashmiris will 
take bullet after bullet and pellet after pellet, but they 
will never give up — just like Nelson Mandela never 
gave  up,  and  just  like  the  people  of  Palestine  never 
gave up. India’s diversionary tactics will not change the 
situation on the ground, which India has to answer for. 
It is its war crimes that India has to answer for. It is the 
call for legality, morality and conscience that India has 
to answer.
We ask the world body to act as the conscience of 
the world to ensure that no child is ever blinded again, 
that no woman is raped again, and that no elderly people 
are pushed to the ground and killed again. Kashmiris 
want freedom from the brutal Indian occupation; they 
will continue to rise again and again.
Let  me  remind  my  Indian  colleague  that  racial 
superiority  and  religious  dominance  are  part  of  the 
political  ideology  of  Rashtriya  Swayamsevak  Sangh 
(RSS). The former members of RSS who are now part 
of the Indian ruling elite are pursuing the same policy 
across India, and especially in Indian-occupied Jammu 
and  Kashmir.  They  are  now  sitting  by  silently  as 
hundreds of women are raped every day across India, 
minorities live on the fringes of society, Muslims and 
Christians  are  publicly  lynched,  and  State  protection 
is  given  to  the  perpetrators  of  the  Samjhauta  train 
terrorist attack.
To  become  a  regional  hegemon,  Indian  leaders 
are  pursuing  a  policy  of  State-sponsored  terrorism, 
funding  and  arming 
terrorist  organizations  such 
as  Tehrik-i-Taliban  Pakistan  and  Jamaat-ul-Ahrar 
to  launch  terrorist  attacks  inside  Pakistan,  killing 
hundreds of innocent women, men and children. India 
is churning out operatives of mayhem from its factories 
of  terror  —  operatives  like  Commander  Yadav,  who 
are spreading terror and violence across Pakistan. We 
caught  Yadav  red-handed,  and  we  will  catch  others 
and bring them to justice. It is not Pakistan, but India’s 
animus against Pakistan that is its biggest enemy.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 8?
It was so decided.
36/38 
Statement by the President
The President: What a week we have had — 196 
statements hav been delivered from this rostrum. This 
is the first time in 11 years that all Member States and 
observers have addressed the General Assembly. I have 
followed them closely, and many I listened to first-hand. 
When it was not possible for me to do so, I asked my 
team to send me a report directly after every statement 
was delivered. Thanks to their hard work, I have been 
able to listen to all. I will not attempt to summarize all 
196 statements in this short speech. I would not be able 
to  capture  the  diversity  and  complexity  of  the  issues 
raised,  and  I  would  fail  to  replicate  the  passion  and 
experience  that  was  brought  from  nations,  cities  and 
homes to this rostrum.
I  will  do  three  things  instead.  First,  I  will  focus 
on people. I have committed to doing that throughout 
the  session,  so  today  is  no  different.  Secondly,  I  will 
review  the  priorities  of  the  seventy-second  session  in 
the light of the input I have received from the members 
of the Assembly. Thirdly, I will look to the weeks and 
months ahead.
We have addressed many challenges over the past 
week. Speakers have talked about their impact on the 
countries  of  the  world,  and,  importantly,  they  also 
talked  about  their  impact  on  people.  We  have  heard 
about  people  running  from  gunshots  or  the  force  of 
exploding bombs; people living for a week on the same 
amount  some  of  us  spend  on  a  cup  of  coffee;  people 
forced to make the decision between risking their lives 
to stay or risking their lives to flee; people wondering 
when  the  next  hurricane  would  hit  or  if  their  village 
would  be  underwater  in  a  few  decades;  people  who 
are  beginning  to  lose  or  have  already  lost  hope  in 
international peace processes; and people still waiting 
for justice and human rights to become a part of their 
daily reality.
These  statements  have  not 
just  focused  on 
challenges, however. They have also spoken of solutions 
and the people who are working to find them. We have 
heard accounts of strength, resilience, partnerships and 
entrepreneurial  spirit.  And  I  want  to  thank  everyone 
for placing people at the centre of the general debate. I 
am confident that we can do even more in the coming 
session.  We  can  bring  our  discussions  and  actions 
closer to the people they most affect.
Now I want to focus on the seventy-second session 
in greater depth. I knew my own priorities before the 
17-29852
25/09/2017 
A/72/PV.23
general  debate  began.  What  I  did  not  know  was  how 
those  present  would  respond  to  them.  Let  me  now 
outline  some  of  the  messages  I  will  be  taking  away 
from the statements delivered.
First,  I  have  heard  overwhelming  support  for  the 
proposal  to  prioritize  peace  and  prevention.  Many 
speakers  have  reiterated  the  call  of  the  Secretary-
General for a surge in diplomacy to stop today’s conflicts 
and  have  called  for  the  United  Nations  to  do  more  to 
prevent  conflicts  from  breaking  out.  We  must  draw 
from  national,  regional  and  international  experiences 
of mediation and conflict prevention. We must realign 
our approach to emphasize peace in what we now call 
“peace  and  security”.  There  has  also  been  stress  on 
continued  support  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping. 
Peace  operations  are  doing  a  vital  job.  They  work  to 
protect  civilians  and  support  national  actors  to  build 
and maintain peace. We have heard that some citizens 
have  paid  the  ultimate  price  while  serving  under  the 
United Nations flag. I want to thank them, on behalf of 
the General Assembly, for their ongoing commitment.
Secondly,  speakers  have  talked  about  the  needs 
of people all over the world and expressed a vision in 
which  human  rights,  gender  equality  and  the  rule  of 
law and norms reign. Today, unfortunately, they often 
remain  the  exceptions.  So,  we  have  more  work  to  do 
in realizing that vision. I have also heard calls for us 
to look beyond the labels of “refugee” or “migrant” to 
simply see people. Many have told us about the work 
being  done  for  those  people  and  to  support  for  the 
States  and  communities  hosting  them.  Additionally, 
many  have  stressed  the  need  for  a  comprehensive 
global framework.
Thirdly,  speakers  have  reminded  us  of  all  of  the 
promises  we  have  made  to  the  people  and  the  planet. 
Throughout  the  week,  we  have  listened  to  accounts 
of  the  work  being  done  to  implement  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Some  have  also  made  clear  that 
climate  change  has  become  a  matter  of  life  or  death 
for  people,  ecosystems,  ways  of  life  and  even  entire 
countries. It has therefore been heartening to witness 
a  major  show  of  support  for  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change  in  this  Hall.  Finally,  speakers  have 
reaffirmed their commitment to the United Nations and 
to one another by saying that we are stronger together 
in a system based on dialogue and multilaterialism, and 
stressed  that  any  alternative  would  risk  repeating  the 
mistakes of history.
But many have also acknowledged two things. The 
first is that the world is changing. Those changes are for 
both good and bad, and are happening at a fast pace. The 
second is that the United Nations must do more to adapt 
to that change. Over the coming session, we will hear 
more ideas and positions on how that should happen. I 
am committed to ensuring that our discussions are as 
open, inclusive and transparent as possible.
I  want  to  pause  here  to  speak  frankly.  Not  all  of 
the messages delivered in the general debate have been 
positive.  Many  of  them  have  contained  criticisms  of 
other  countries  or  of  the  United  Nations.  But  that  is 
part  of  the  package.  It  is  the  right  of  the  members  of 
the  Assembly  to  do  that.  And  regardless  of  the  size, 
population or economy of the countries they represent, 
all delegations have access to the same platform for the 
same amount of time. They can speak freely, without 
censorship.  We  must  remember 
that  differences 
in  unilateral  positions  do  not  prevent  multilateral 
agreement. They might give us more work to do. Our 
negotiations  may  be  more  difficult,  but  they  can  also 
make the outcome stronger. I therefore want to embrace 
both the consensus and the contention that have been 
part of this year’s general debate.
The  only  thing  left  to  do  is  to  look  ahead.  The 
seventy-second session will involve milestones. Some of 
them are already on the calendar, such as the high-level 
event  on  sustaining  peace,  in  April,  and  the  adoption 
of global compacts related to migrants and refugees in 
September. Already this week, the General Assembly 
will  convene  the  high-level  meeting  on  the  appraisal 
of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons.  That  shows  our  readiness 
to  follow  up  on  mandates  inherited  from  previous 
sessions from an early stage. I am sure that other major 
events will happen throughout the year, in response to 
the initiative of Member States or in reaction to events 
happening around the world. Additionally, the work of 
the  Main  Committees  of  the  General  Assembly  will 
soon begin. All six Committees are important tools for 
multilaterialism. We should make use of them.
Before  I  conclude,  I  want  to  thank  all  those  who 
have contributed to the general debate of the seventy-
second session. I thank the representatives of Member 
States and observers for standing up here and outlining 
their visions. I want to acknowledge the Vice-Presidents 
for their able chairing on my behalf.
17-29852
37/38
A/72/PV.23 
25/09/2017
I  also  want  to  thank  everyone  who  has  worked 
to  ensure  the  smooth  running  of  the  debate  and  the 
security of all participating in it, and in particular our 
colleagues  in  the  Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management.  Those  people  have  not 
stood on the podium, but we would not be here without 
all of the work they have done, out of the spotlight and 
behind the scenes. I believe they deserve our applause.
I am sure that many of the delegations here today 
are breathing a sigh of relief. High-level representatives 
have  returned  to  their  capitals.  Schedules  no  longer 
contain back-to-back meetings and events. Most people 
probably  deserve  a  break,  but  those  whom  we  all 
represent — the people I have talked about today — need 
us to do the opposite. They need us to focus on action, 
now more than ever. So let us get to work.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
38/38 
17-29852
