United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
45th plenary meeting
Thursday, 9 November 2017, 6.10 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.45
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c)  Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General (A/72/181)
List of candidates (A/72/182 and A/72/182/Add.1)
Curricula vitae (A/72/183)
The  President:  As  members  are  aware,  there 
is  still  one  vacancy  on  the  Court  to  be  filled.  The 
Assembly will now proceed to vote with respect to the 
remaining vacancy.
 I should once again like to remind representatives 
“After 
that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,
the  President  has  announced 
the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order  in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting”.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers will now be distributed.
Ballot papers will be given only to the representatives 
seated  directly  behind  their  countries’  nameplates. 
Representatives  are  requested  to  use  only  the  ballot 
papers now being distributed. All the candidates whose 
names  appear  on  the  ballot  papers  are  eligible.  The 
names of the four candidates who have already obtained 
an absolute majority of votes — Mr. Ronny Abraham, 
Mr.  Antônio  Augusto  Cançado  Trindade,  Mr.  Nawaf 
Salam and Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf — have been 
deleted from the ballot.
I would like to remind delegations that the name of 
only one candidate should be marked with a cross. Any 
ballot paper on which more than one name is marked 
will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast only for 
those whose names appear on the ballot papers.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Aldoseri 
(Bahrain), Ms. Sánchez Rodríguez (Cuba), Mrs. Le 
Diffard (Hungary), Ms. Rheindrayani (Indonesia), 
Mr.  Zamporlini  (Italy)  and  Mr.  Waweru  (Kenya) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  6.20  p.m.  and 
resumed at 6.50 p.m.
The President: The result of the voting is as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained:
193
1
192
1
191
97
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari (India) 
115
Mr. Christopher Greenwood (United Kingdom 
76
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) 
The  following  candidate  has  obtained  an  absolute 
majority in the General Assembly: Mr. Dalveer Bhandari.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37431 (E)
*1737431*
A/72/PV.45 
09/11/2017
I have communicated the results of the voting to the 
President of the Security Council.
I have also received a letter from the President of 
the Security Council, which reads:
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that  at  the 
8093rd  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
9 November 2017, for the purpose of electing one 
member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
a  term  of  office  beginning  on  6  February  2018, 
Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood  (United  Kingdom  of 
Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland)  obtained  an 
absolute majority of votes.”
As a result of the independent voting in the General 
Assembly  and  in  the  Security  Council,  no  candidate 
has  obtained  an  absolute  majority  in  both  bodies.  In 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  11  of  the 
Statute of the Court, it will be necessary to hold another 
meeting to fill the remaining vacancy.
I propose that this meeting be adjourned and that 
the next meeting to vote on the remaining vacancy be 
held on Monday, 13 November 2017, at 3 p.m., owing to 
the meeting schedule of the General Assembly.
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.
2/2 
17-37431
