United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
16th plenary meeting
Friday, 22 September 2017, 12 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.16
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Sauer (Finland), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at noon.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Allen Michael Chastanet, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, 
Economic Growth, Job Creation, External 
Affairs and the Public Service of Saint Lucia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance, Economic Growth, Job Creation, External 
Affairs and the Public Service of Saint Lucia.
Mr.  Allen  Michael  Chastanet,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Finance,  Economic  Growth,  Job 
Creation, External Affairs and the Public Service 
of Saint Lucia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Allen  Michael 
Chastanet,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance, 
Economic Growth, Job Creation, External Affairs and 
the Public Service of Saint Lucia, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Chastanet 
(Saint  Lucia):  Saint  Lucia 
congratulates Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his assumption of 
the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-
second session and assures him of the full support and 
cooperation of our delegation during his tenure.
We 
thank  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Peter  Thomson  of  Fiji,  for  his  able 
stewardship of the Assembly during the past year.
For  small  island  States  like  my  own  in  the 
Caribbean  region,  the  promise  of  the  United  Nations 
is  being  tested  today  more  than  ever.  The  world  is 
experiencing  extraordinary  changes  at  a  breathtaking 
pace — changes that are reshaping the way we live, the 
way we work, our planet and the very nature of peace 
and security.
I  arrived  in  New  York  earlier  this  week  after  a 
tour of the devastation wrought by Hurricane Irma on 
islands in the Caribbean, and for the entire week I have 
been  engaged  in  discussions  focused  on  the  region’s 
recovery efforts. I have also watched, from afar and with 
a heavy heart, further destruction to my region — with 
Hurricane  Maria’s  crushing  blow  to  the  sister  islands 
of Dominica and Puerto Rico, claiming many lives and 
saddling those islands with hundreds of millions — if 
not billions — in damage. 
I  have  also  listened  in  dismay  to  the  silence  of 
many,  and  the  weak  acknowledgement  by  others, 
regarding  the  crisis  in  our  region.  It  has  awakened  in 
me the fear that we may be on our own to chart a path 
forward for our region. While some continue to doubt 
and deny the assessments of science, it is impossible to 
avoid the facts of climate change. In less than a month 
Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, the Bahamas, Cuba, 
the  British  Virgin  Islands,  Anguilla,  the  Dominican 
Republic,  Saint  Bart,  Saint  John,  Saint  Thomas,  the 
Turks and Caicos, Sint Maarten, and Saint Martin have 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29716 (E)
*1729716*
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
all fallen victim to the ravages of the hurricanes, which 
have  left  death  and  carnage  in  their  wake.  I  can  also 
add  Florida  and  Texas.  The  impact  has  been  without 
discrimination. 
I pause here to share our condolences to others in 
our hemisphere, notably Mexico, which has long been 
of support to us, but now faces a mounting death toll 
from the earthquakes that have struck that country.
repeatedly  warned 
Let  us  acknowledge  the  fact  that  small  island 
developing  States  have 
the 
international  community  that  a  failure  to  respond 
adequately to climate change would betray our children 
and condemn future generations to certain doom. I dare 
say that we do not have the luxury to be silent on that 
front anymore. We must act now. The effect of natural 
disasters does not have a diplomatic solution. What is 
needed  is  tangible  action.  The  future  is  now,  and  the 
challenges are profound. What is fast becoming the new 
normal is the intensification of extreme weather events, 
which demands from us real solutions in real time. No 
longer can we depend on the old mechanisms with their 
dense bureaucracies that delay or limit a nation’s ability 
to  safeguard  its  citizens  during  a  crisis  and  slow  the 
rebuilding effort.
I remind all here that Saint Lucia, along with most 
of  our  sister  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  is 
anchored at the heart of hurricane alley, with our people 
on the front line, and all too often we are the first to 
endure  the  ravages  of  Mother  Nature’s  fury  when  the 
storms  come  off  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Today,  as  we 
look  to  the  world  for  leadership  and  partnership,  we 
thank France, China and Germany for their continued 
leadership on climate-change issues. The Government 
and the people of Saint Lucia offer their most sincere 
condolences and whatever support that we can to those 
in need. 
The ties that bind our peoples run deep; the pain of 
one is the pain of all. We ask that the global community 
follow that ethos. We never forget that we are one global 
ecosystem  that  demands  that  we  all  be  our  brother’s 
keeper.  Our  Nobel  Laureate,  Sir  Derek  Walcott,  has 
spoken to the sense of responsibility to one’s neighbour 
that is rooted in our cultural DNA and the imperative 
of helping, not out of a sense of duty but out of a sense 
of  community.  That  was  exemplified  by  Mr.  Orlando 
Smith,  the  Premier  of  the  British  Virgin  Islands,  as 
Dominica  faced  the  imminent  threat  of  Hurricane 
Maria. Mr. Smith, whose own island had already been 
brutalized by Hurricane Irma, offered his unwavering 
support to the Prime Minister of Dominica, Mr. Skerrit. 
Even in our destitution, we in the Caribbean open our 
hearts and our means to those in need.
I  stand  here  and  ask  that  we  revisit  many  of  our 
lofty goals, as we see the lack of equity that is at the 
heart  of  all  of  our  discussions  and  seek  to  address  it. 
Multilateral discussions on development, resilience and 
the  sustainable  development  of  our  countries  should 
be  grounded  in  what  is  equitable  and  just.  We  must 
acknowledge that the United Nations will never succeed 
when only a few prosper and many, whose number is 
growing,  do  not.  How  can  we,  when  the  progress  we 
make  is  fragile  and  unequal?  How  can  we,  when  we 
indulge our differences to the exclusion of the work we 
must do together? How can we, when inequity remains 
the driving force of our international system, propelling 
some forward and leaving far too many behind? How 
can we, as leaders, talk about sustainable development 
goals,  when  the  people  of  our  countries  continue  to 
struggle just to survive?
Fundamentally, our global reality is an increasingly 
integrated  one.  No  one  is  spared  the  perils  of  the 
convulsions  in  our  world.  Our  economies,  natural 
environment and people are all connected. We in this 
hemisphere are not impervious to the impact of the wars 
and the starvation that are taking place in the Middle 
East and Africa, the persecution that is taking place in 
Asia and the rise of nationalistic tendencies taking place 
in Europe. We are stacked in a global row of dominoes, 
where a disruptive event in one country begets similar 
or worse events in neighbouring countries. It spreads, 
impacting  us  all  and  testing  our  social,  political  and 
economic systems.
We live in a world of imperfect choices — choices 
between clinging to the old systems that do not serve us 
any longer and rethinking new ways to secure a better 
future. We must not turn away from the hard choices. 
We  must  not  fear  change.  Our  challenges  are  real, 
serious  and  numerous.  We,  the  United  Nations,  must 
get  better  at  the  policies  that  strike  at  the  root  of  the 
problem  and  ground  our  17  Sustainable  Development 
Goals (SDGs) in one word: equity.
I must repeat a point stated earlier. In a time when 
inequity pervades every aspect of our international order, 
what hope do we have of successfully implementing the 
SDGs  when  the  deck  is  stacked  against  many  of  our 
people? How do we ensure that all citizens have their 
2/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
most basic needs satisfied, such as food on their plate, 
when we struggle from crisis to crisis? We must agree 
that there should be a minimum standard of living for 
each and every one of our citizens. We must maintain 
basic  standards  that  provide  adequate  health  care, 
education, housing, security and economic opportunity 
for every citizen of our countries. Without establishing 
such  standards,  we  cannot  engage  in  any  meaningful 
discussion or plan of action.
That  is  what  will  stem  the  flow  of  migration.  It 
will  offer  opportunities  to  be  productive  members  of 
society. It will dull the urge that drives some to crime 
and  others  into  the  arms  of  groups  that  foment  evil. 
Any  overhaul  of  the  United  Nations  system  must  be 
founded on the principle of equity. Without equity as a 
foundation, Sustainable Development Goals are dreams 
that  go  away  when  we  open  our  eyes  to  the  constant 
state of crisis confronting us.
I take this moment to assure the Secretary-General 
of my country’s support for the effort needed to reform 
the  Organization  in  order  to  address  the  new  era  and 
its responsibilities. At the heart of any reform of such a 
nature, we, nations both large and small, must play our 
role in protecting the rights of individuals everywhere. 
In the face of mounting challenges, we must seek the 
courage and wisdom to act boldly and collectively and 
revise  outmoded  programmes  that  are  so  glaringly 
inadequate for the needs of our time.
We  have  to  harness  new  ideas  and  technologies 
and invest in the individuals and the generations who 
will  build  our  future.  We  must  see  more  in  terms  of 
outcomes  and  less  in  terms  of  bureaucracy.  We  must 
come here to make a difference and be able to return to 
our homes ready to deliver on the promises that we have 
made. The mobilization of the leadership of the world 
to come here will be all for naught if we do not deliver. 
We  must  come  here  to  make  a  difference  and  not  get 
carried away by name-calling. Rather, we must ground 
our discourse in mutual respect and a commitment to 
deliver to those we lead.
We  must  understand  and  acknowledge  that  when 
times  change,  so  must  we.  Our  claims  to  fidelity  to 
the  words  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  mean 
nothing  if  we  do  not  create  new  responses  to  old  and 
new  challenges.  We  must  be  a  source  of  hope  for  the 
poor,  the  sick  and  the  marginalized  so  that  we  can 
ensure  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  our  citizens  on 
a  sustainable  planet.  That  requires  that  we  constantly 
advance the principles of the Charter. The commitments 
that  we  make  to  each  other  must  be  honoured,  which 
will, in turn, strengthen our mutual trust.
Within and beyond the Organization, we must look 
more  honestly  at  how  we  categorize  each  other  and 
how  the  development  and  donor  community  rank  us. 
How  can  we  call  a  country  a  middle-income  country, 
based solely on its gross domestic product per capita, 
when we know that its location renders it vulnerable to 
natural disasters that have the capacity to bring it and 
its people to their knees?
It  is  unconscionable  to  see  our  peers  forced  to 
beg  and  plead  for  goodwill  and  to  have  to  depend  on 
commercial loan rates to rebuild broken economies, all 
because the traditional system is so unyielding, archaic 
and  sometimes  heartless  in  its  design.  That  model 
must change to one that affords small and developing 
nations the real opportunity to survive and thrive in an 
increasingly  cold  global  environment.  The  model  has 
to  change  in  order  to  afford  all  of  us  the  opportunity 
to  build  back  the  infrastructure  that  can  secure  our 
futures and those of our people and have it be stronger 
and more resilient.
In  closing,  the  people  of  my  region  are  resilient. 
We  are  a  people  and  a  region  committed  to  working 
together  in  order  to  rebuild  stronger  and  better.  In 
challenging  times,  we  do  not  hesitate  to  commit  our 
scarce  resources  to  one  another.  We  truly  are  our 
brothers’ keepers.
We  have  also  been  very  fortunate  to  receive 
support from friends near and far as we seek to make 
a  better  world  for  those  who  will  follow  us.  In  our 
case, friendships like those that we have with Taiwan, 
Cuba and Mexico, among others, allow us to envision 
a positive future. I ask that, while we may come from 
different places and with different priorities, we must 
never  forget  that  we  share  a  common  future  —  a 
future that will be secure only if we meet the threats, 
challenges and opportunities that confront us together, 
with greater cooperation and understanding.
Our  generation’s  task  is  to  engage  in  a  common 
effort towards a common purpose as we answer the call 
of our times. Let it be said by our children’s children 
that we were tested and that we did not fail, but rather 
that we delivered to future generations a better world. 
We have that obligation to our people and to our world.
17-29716
3/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Finance, Economic Growth, Job Creation, 
External Affairs and the Public Service of Saint Lucia 
for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Allen  Michael  Chastanet,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Finance,  Economic  Growth,  Job 
Creation, External Affairs and the Public Service 
of Saint Lucia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Allow me to reiterate to the Secretary-General Cuba’s 
support for his work at the helm of the United Nations 
and as a guarantor and advocate of international peace.
I would like to express my deep condolences to the 
relatives of the deceased and the victims of hurricanes 
Irma and Maria, as well as our readiness to increase our 
cooperation,  to  the  extent  of  our  modest  possibilities, 
with  the  brother  peoples  and  the  Governments  of 
Dominica  and  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  which  are  small 
Caribbean  islands  that  suffered  terrible  devastation, 
along  with  the  Dominican  Republic,  Puerto  Rico, 
Saint  Martin,  Sint  Maarten,  the  Virgin  Islands  and 
Anguilla.  I  call  upon  the  international  community  to 
give the highest priority to the situation and to mobilize 
resources  to  assist  the  small  Caribbean  island  States 
and territories that have suffered such devastation. 
 We would like to convey Cuba’s warmest feelings 
of  solidarity  to  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Mexico,  particularly  the  victims  and  their  relatives 
who  were  affected  by  earthquakes,  and  we  reiterate 
our  readiness  to  assist  their  people  and  support  their 
recovery efforts with our modest efforts.
We also want to express our sorrow to the people of 
the United States, as well as our heartfelt condolences 
to  the  relatives  of  the  deceased  and  to  all  victims  of 
Hurricane Irma.
I speak on behalf of the people of Cuba, who are 
currently carrying out a colossal effort to recover from 
the  severe  damage  caused  to  housing,  agriculture, 
the  power  system  and  other  services  by  Hurricane 
Irma.  Despite 
all-encompassing  preventive 
measures  —  including  the  evacuation  of  more  than 
1.7  million  people  —  and  the  full  cooperation  of  all 
citizens, we suffered the loss of 10 people.
the 
The grave damage to services, the loss of social and 
personal goods, and the hardships endured by families 
that spent many hours without electricity and/or water 
only strengthened the unity and solidarity of our noble 
and  heroic  people.  The  moving  scenes  of  rescuers 
saving  a  girl  and  returning  her  to  her  mother,  a  little 
boy  picking  up  a  bust  of  José  Martí  from  the  rubble, 
students  helping  families  they  had  never  met  before, 
soldiers  from  the  Armed  Forces  and  the  Ministry  of 
the Interior doing the toughest jobs, and local leaders 
heading  the  most  difficult  tasks  have  become  all  too 
familiar.
During  a  visit  to  the  area  that  suffered  the  most 
severe  devastation,  President  Raúl  Castro  issued  an 
appeal that read: 
“These have been difficult days for our people, 
who, in just a few hours, have seen how what was 
built  with  great  effort  could  be  destroyed  by  a 
devastating hurricane. The images received during 
the past few hours are powerful, as is the spirit of 
resilience  and  victory  of  our  people,  who  come 
back fighting in the face of every adversity.”
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Cuba,  l  sincerely  appreciate  the  genuine  expressions 
of  solidarity  and  affection  expressed  by  numerous 
Governments, parliaments, international organizations 
and  representatives  of  civil  society.  I  would  like  to 
convey my profound gratitude for the numerous offers 
of assistance that we have received.
I  still  have  vivid  and  emotional  memories 
the 
imposing  presence  of  Fidel  Castro  Ruz, 
of 
Commander-in-Chief of the Cuban Revolution, and the 
great validity of the ideas he expressed to the General 
Assembly. On behalf of our people and Government, I 
would like to express our gratitude for the expressions 
of  respect,  affection  and  admiration  that  we  have 
received from so many.
Last Tuesday, President Donald Trump came here to 
convince us that he proposes to promote the prosperity 
of nations and persons. But in the real world the wealth 
possessed  by  eight  men  together  is  equivalent  to  the 
wealth shared by the 3.6 billion human beings who make 
up the poorest half of humanity. In terms of turnover, 69 
of the 100 biggest entities in the world are transnational 
companies, not States. The turnover of the world’s 10 
biggest corporations is higher than the public revenues 
earned  by  180  countries  combined.  Seven  hundred 
million people live in extreme poverty, and 21 million 
4/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
are  victims  of  forced  labour.  In  2015,  5.9  million 
children died of preventable or curable diseases before 
reaching the age of 5. A total of 758 million adults are 
still illiterate.
Eight  hundred  and  fifteen  million  people  suffer 
from  chronic  hunger  —  tens  of  millions  more  than 
in  2015.  Two  billion  are  undernourished.  Even  if  the 
precarious  decreasing  growth  rate  of  recent  years 
rebounds,  653  million  persons  will  continue  to  face 
hunger by the year 2030. Given current trends, we will 
not be able to eradicate hunger by the year 2050.
flows 
associated  with  migrant 
There  are  22.5  million  refugees.  Humanitarian 
tragedies 
are 
worsening  and  increasing  amid  the  clearly  unjust 
current  international  economic  and  political  order. 
The construction of walls and barriers, as well as the 
laws  and  measures  adopted  to  prevent  the  waves  of 
refugees  and  migrants,  have  proved  to  be  cruel  and 
ineffective.  There  is  a  proliferation  of  exclusive  and 
xenophobic  policies  that  violate  the  human  rights  of 
millions  of  people  and  fail  to  solve  the  problems  of 
underdevelopment, poverty and armed conflicts — the 
main causes of migration and refugee claims.
Military expenditures have increased to $1.7 trillion. 
That reality contradicts those who claim that there are 
not  enough  resources  to  eradicate  poverty.  Despite 
all  the  rhetoric,  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  lacks  the  means  for  its  implementation, 
owing  to  the  egoism  and  lack  of  political  will  of  the 
United States and other industrialized countries.
What  is  the  miraculous  solution  that  President 
Donald  Trump  recommends  to  us  in  the  absence  of 
the  financial  flows  of  the  Marshall  Plan?  Who  will 
contribute  the  resources  for  that?  How  can  that  be 
reconciled with the “America First” idea advanced by 
President  Reagan  decades  ago  and  by  Trump  today? 
The President of the United States ignores and distorts 
history  and  believes  that  a  chimera  is  a  goal  to  be 
pursued. The production and consumption patterns of 
capitalism  are  unsustainable  and  irrational  and  will 
inexorably  lead  to  the  destruction  of  the  environment 
and the end of the human species.
Can  anyone  forget  about  the  consequences  of 
colonialism, slavery, neocolonialism and imperialism? 
Could 
the  several  decades  of  bloody  military 
dictatorships  in  Latin  America  be  referred  to  as  an 
example  of  successful  capitalism?  Does  anyone  know 
of any form of neoliberal capitalism that has benefited 
us  all,  as  opposed  to  that  which  destroyed  the  Latin 
American economies in the 1980s?
It  is  urgent  and  essential  for  the  United  Nations 
to  work  to  establish  a  new  participatory,  democratic, 
equitable  and  inclusive  international  economic  order, 
as well as a new financial architecture. They must take 
into account the needs and particularities of developing 
countries and the asymmetries that exist in world trade 
and finance as a result of centuries of exploitation and 
plundering.  Industrialized  countries  have  the  moral 
obligation,  the  historical  responsibility  and  sufficient 
financial and technological means to do that. 
However,  not  even  the  rich  will  be  able  to  enjoy 
the forecast prosperity if climate change is not stopped. 
Cuba regrets the decision taken by the Government of the 
United States, which has historically been the principal 
greenhouse-gas-emitting  country  on  the  planet,  to 
withdraw  that  country  from  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change. In 2016, and for the third consecutive 
year,  the  records  for  the  average  global  temperature 
increase have been broken, which confirms that climate 
change is a threat to the survival of humankind and the 
sustainable  development  of  our  peoples.  We  reiterate 
our solidarity with the small island developing States, 
especially those in the Caribbean and the Pacific, which 
are the most affected by climate change and for whom 
we  request  just,  special  and  differentiated  treatment. 
We also support the priority attention accorded to the 
needs of sub-Saharan Africa.
The  United  States  Government  has  come  here 
to  tell  us  that,  in  addition  to  prosperity,  the  other 
two  “beautiful  pillars”  of  the  international  order  are 
sovereignty  and  security.  We  all  share  the  common 
responsibility  of  preserving  the  existence  of  human 
beings  in  the  face  of  nuclear  weapons.  An  important 
contribution  to  the  achievement  of  that  goal  was  the 
historic adoption and signing, under the auspices of the 
Assembly, of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons,  which  bans  the  existence,  use  and  threat 
of  use  of  such  weapons,  which  have  the  capacity  to 
annihilate the human species. 
The  United  States  has  strongly  opposed  that 
treaty.  It  announced  that  it  will  invest  $700  billion 
in  military  expenditures,  and  it  is  developing  an 
extremely  aggressive  nuclear  and  military  doctrine, 
based on the threat of the use of force and the use of 
force. NATO member States have violated international 
peace and security and international law by promoting 
17-29716
5/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
military interventions and unconventional wars against 
sovereign  States.  As  the  Commander-in-Chief  of  the 
Cuban Revolution, Fidel Castro Ruz, pointed out: 
“When this philosophy of despoilment disappears, 
the  philosophy  of  war  will  have  disappeared” 
(A/PV.872, para. 188). 
The  unlawful  imposition  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures  and  the  use  of  financial,  judicial,  cultural 
and  communication  tools  to  destabilize  Governments 
and deny peoples their right to self-determination have 
become commonplace. I believe that the militarization 
and the covert use of information and communication 
technologies  to  attack  other  States  have  increased, 
while several developed countries strongly oppose the 
adoption  of  international  treaties  that  would  regulate 
cooperation aimed at securing a safe cyberspace.
The President of the United States manipulates the 
concepts  of  sovereignty  and  security  to  his  exclusive 
benefit and to the detriment of all others, including his 
allies. The attempt to resort to military threat and force 
in  order  to  stop  the  irreversible  global  trend  towards 
multipolarization  and  polycentrism  will  seriously 
jeopardize  international  peace  and  security,  which 
should be defended and preserved through international 
efforts. The principles of sovereign equality, respect for 
the territorial integrity of States and non-interference in 
their internal affairs should be respected. The Charter 
of the United Nations and international law do not allow 
for reinterpretation.
United Nations reform should pursue the principal 
goal  of  responding  to  the  pressing  needs  of  people 
and  the  great  disadvantaged  majority.  Multilateralism 
should  be  protected  and  reinforced  so  as  to  resist  the 
imperial  interests  of  domination  and  hegemony.  The 
democratization  of  the  Security  Council,  both  in 
terms of its composition and its working methods, is a 
most urgent task. It is also essential to strengthen the 
General Assembly and recover the functions that have 
been usurped.
Patriotism, which was invoked in the statement of 
the United States, is a perversion of humanism and of 
love and loyalty to the homeland and the enrichment and 
defence of national and universal culture. It embodies 
an  exceptionalist  and  supremacist  vision  of  ignorant 
intolerance  in  the  face  of  diverse  political,  economic, 
social and cultural models.
In developed countries, the loss of the legitimacy 
of political systems and parties has worsened, and voter 
abstention is on the rise. Legal and illegal corruption is 
spreading.  There  is  the  extreme  case  of  the  so-called 
special  interests,  or  corporate  payments,  in  exchange 
for  benefits,  in  the  country  that  spends  the  highest 
amount  of  money  in  electoral  campaigns  and  where, 
paradoxically,  a  candidate  with  the  lowest  number  of 
popular  votes  can  be  elected  or  be  entitled  to  govern 
with the negligible support of voters. 
There has been an increasing and unheard-of use of 
science and technology to exercise hegemony, mutilate 
national  cultures  and  manipulate  human  behaviour, 
as  in  the  case  of  so-called  big  data,  or  psychometry, 
used  for  political  and  advertising  purposes.  Seven 
Western  consortiums  keep  strict  control  over  what  is 
being read, seen or heard on the planet. Technologies 
are  being  monopolized.  The  governance  of  digital 
networks is dictatorial and discriminatory, and despite 
appearances  the  digital  divide  between  rich  and  poor 
countries is increasing. Opportunities and the rights of 
youth,  migrants  and  workers  are  being  curtailed,  and 
their human rights are being openly and systematically 
violated.
The  day  before  yesterday,  the  United  States 
Vice-President,  Michael  Pence,  ridiculously  ignorant 
of the functions of the Security Council and attempting 
to  establish  new  prerogatives,  said  that  the  Security 
Council should modify the composition and methods of 
the Human Rights Council, which “does not deserve its 
name” because “a clear majority of the Human Rights 
Council’s  members  fail  to  meet  even  the  most  basic 
human rights standards”. 
I assume that Mr. Pence is not including his own 
country  in  that  category,  which  in  fact  deserves  to 
be  included  because  of  its  pattern  of  the  systematic 
violations of human rights, such as the use of torture, 
arbitrary detentions and imprisonment, as occurs in the 
Guantanamo  naval  base,  the  assassination  of  African 
Americans  by  law-enforcement  agents,  the  killing 
of  innocent  civilians  by  its  troops,  xenophobia  and 
repression  against  immigrants,  including  minors,  and 
its limited compliance with international instruments.
We  reaffirm  our  strongest  condemnation  of  all 
forms  and  manifestations  of  terrorism,  and  we  reject 
the application of double standards in combating them.
The urgent quest for a just and lasting solution to 
the conflict in the Middle East is based on the exercise 
6/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
of  the  inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
self-determination  and  to  the  existence  of  a  free  and 
independent  State  within  the  pre-1967  borders,  with 
East Jerusalem as its capital.
The  situation  in  the  Western  Sahara  requires  an 
effort, in accordance with United Nations resolutions, 
to ensure the Saharan people’s ability to exercise self-
determination and to ensure respect for their legitimate 
right to live in peace in their own territory.
Cuba  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  quest  for  a 
peaceful  and  negotiated  solution  to  the  war  in  Syria, 
without any foreign interference and with full respect 
for its sovereignty and territorial integrity.
to 
Threats 
international  peace  and  security 
stemming  from  the  expansion  of  NATO’s  presence 
along the borders of Russia are on the rise. We continue 
to  reject  the  unilateral  and  unjust  sanctions  imposed 
against that country.
We  demand  respect  for  the  so-called  nuclear 
agreement signed with the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
We reject the threat to totally destroy the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, home to 25 million human 
beings. War is not an option on the Korean peninsula; 
it would threaten the existence of hundreds of millions 
of  people  in  that  area  and  in  neighbouring  countries, 
and  it  would  lead  to  a  nuclear  conflagration  of 
unpredictable  consequences.  Only  through  dialogue 
and negotiations will it be possible to achieve a lasting 
political  solution,  which  should  take  into  account  the 
legitimate concerns of all parties involved. We support 
the  total  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula, 
without  foreign  interference,  with  full  respect  for  the 
sovereign equality and territorial integrity of the States 
concerned and strict adherence to the principle of the 
non-use or threat of use of force.
Today,  new  threats  are  looming  over  peace  and 
stability in Latin America and the Caribbean, in open 
disrespect for the Proclamation of Latin America and 
the  Caribbean  as  a  Zone  of  Peace,  signed  in  Havana 
by the Heads of State and Government of our region in 
January 2014 at the Second Summit of the Community 
of Latin American and Caribbean States. 
We  reiterate  the  statement  made  on  14  July  by 
President  Raúl  Modesto  Castro  Ruz  concerning  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela:
“The aggression and putschist violence against 
Venezuela  harms  all  of  ‘Our  America’  and  only 
serves the interests of those set on dividing us in 
order  to  exercise  their  control  over  our  peoples, 
unconcerned about causing conflicts of incalculable 
consequence  in  our  region,  such  as  those  we  are 
seeing in various parts of the world.
“Today, we have warned that those attempting 
to overthrow the Bolivarian and Chavista revolution 
through  unconstitutional,  violent  and  putschist 
methods  will  shoulder  a  serious  responsibility  in 
the eyes of history.”
the  military 
We  strongly  reject 
threats  against 
Venezuela,  including  the  United  States  executive 
order that designates Venezuela a threat to the national 
security of the United States, and the unilateral, unjust 
and arbitrary sanctions applied against it.
We  reiterate  our  unwavering  solidarity  with  the 
Bolivarian and Chavista people and Government, and 
with  its  civic-military  union  led  by  Constitutional 
President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros.  We  denounce  and 
condemn  the  Nicaraguan  Investment  Conditionality 
Act initiative promoted in the United States Congress 
as  part  of  an  interventionist  approach  intended  to 
impose  an  economic  embargo  against  the  people  and 
the Government of Nicaragua, to whom we reiterate our 
support.
We  express  our  solidarity  with  former  President 
Luiz  Inácio  Lula  da  Silva,  victim  of  political 
persecution  intended  to  prevent  him,  by  means  of 
judicial  disqualification,  from  running  for  direct 
elections. Lula, President Dilma Rousseff, the Workers’ 
Party and the Brazilian people will always find Cuba 
on their side.
We  reaffirm  our  historic  commitment  to  the  free 
determination  and  independence  of  the  people  of 
Puerto Rico.
We  support  the  legitimate  claim  of  Argentina  for 
sovereignty over the Malvinas and the South Sandwich 
and South Georgia Islands.
Cuba  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  extent 
possible, and at the request of the parties involved, to 
efforts to achieve a stable and lasting peace in Colombia.
We will uphold our commitment to share our modest 
achievements with the peoples of the South, including 
the  efforts  of  the  40,000  aid  workers  deployed  in  64 
17-29716
7/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
countries, who are fighting today for the life and health 
of human beings.
On  16  June,  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
Mr.  Donald  Trump,  announced  the  new  Cuba  policy 
of  his  Administration,  which  represents  a  setback 
in  bilateral  relations  and  undermines 
the  basis 
established  two  years  ago  for  a  move  towards  a  new 
type  of  relationship  between  our  two  countries  that 
was characterized by respect and equality. The United 
States Government has decided to tighten the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  by  imposing  new 
obstacles  to  the  already  limited  possibilities  that  the 
United  States  business  community  has  to  trade  with 
and invest in Cuba as well as additional restrictions on 
United States citizens wishing to travel to our country.
Those  decisions  have  ignored  the  support  on  the 
part  of  broad  sectors  in  the  United  States,  including 
the  majority  of  Cuban  émigrés,  for  the  lifting  of  the 
blockade and the normalization of relations. They only 
serve the interests of a group of individuals of Cuban 
origin based in south Florida, which is an increasingly 
isolated  minority  group  that  insists  on  harming  Cuba 
and  its  people  for  having  decided  to  defend,  at  all 
costs,  its  right  to  be  free,  independent  and  sovereign. 
Today, we reiterate our condemnation of the measures 
aimed at tightening the blockade and reaffirm that any 
strategy intended to destroy the Cuban Revolution will 
fail. Likewise, we reject the manipulation of the human 
rights issue against Cuba, which has much to be proud 
of and has no need for lessons from the United States or 
from anyone else.
We  wish  to  express  our  strongest  condemnation 
of  the  disrespectful,  offensive  and  interventionist 
statement  against  Cuba  and  the  Cuban  Government 
made  three  days  ago  from  this  rostrum  by  President 
Donald Trump (see A/72/PV.3). We remind him that the 
United States, where flagrant human rights violations 
raising deep concerns in the international community 
are being committed, does not have the slightest moral 
authority to judge my country. We reaffirm that Cuba 
will never accept any preconditions or impositions, nor 
will it ever renounce any of its principles.
With  regard  to  the  alleged  incidents  that  have 
allegedly  affected  United  States  diplomatic  officials 
in  Havana,  we  categorically  affirm  that  the  Cuban 
Government  rigorously  and  seriously  abides  by  its 
obligations under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic 
Relations to ensure the protection and integrity of all 
diplomats  without  exception,  including  those  of  the 
United States, and that Cuba has never perpetrated nor 
will  it  ever  perpetrate  actions  of  that  sort,  nor  has  it 
allowed nor will it ever allow its territory to be used by 
third parties for such purposes. 
Based  on 
results  of 
the  preliminary 
the 
investigation, carried out with priority and with a high 
technical  component,  following  instructions  issued 
from the highest level of our Government, the Cuban 
authorities, having taken into account data provided by 
United States authorities, have not found any evidence 
whatsoever that could confirm the cause or the origin of 
the health disorders referred by United States diplomats 
and their families. The investigation seeking to clarify 
that issue is ongoing, and in order to be able to reach 
a conclusion, it will be crucial to able to count on the 
cooperation of the United States authorities. It would be 
unfortunate if a matter of that nature were to become 
politicized.
As  has  been  expressed  by  Cuban  President  Raúl 
Castro  Ruz,  Cuba  is  willing  to  continue  negotiating 
all  pending  bilateral  issues  with  the  United  States, 
on  the  basis  of  equality  and  absolute  respect  for  the 
sovereignty and independence of our country. We will 
maintain a respectful dialogue and cooperation in areas 
of common interest with the United States Government. 
Cuba and the United States can cooperate and coexist, 
respecting  our  differences  and  promoting  everything 
that  benefits  both  countries  and  peoples,  but  no  one 
should expect Cuba to make concessions that affect its 
sovereignty and independence.
The  Cuban  people  will  not  cease  their  demand 
for  the  lifting  and  total  elimination  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  and  will  continue 
to  denounce  the  strengthening  of  that  policy.  On 
November  1,  Cuba  will  once  again  present  to  the 
General Assembly the annual draft resolution entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.
While  inequality  —  the  opulence  of  a  few  and 
the marginalization of many — is growing in today’s 
world,  the  Cuban  people  will  keep  up  its  struggle  to 
achieve the most just society possible. We will continue 
to  steadily  advance  down  the  path  of  revolutionary 
transformation that has been sovereignly chosen by all 
Cubans to further improve our socialism.
8/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Khemais Jhinaoui, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Tunisia.
Mr.  Jhinaoui  (Tunisia)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I 
congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session, and wish him every success in his tasks. 
I thank Secretary-General António Guterres for his 
efforts to advance the lofty United Nations principles 
by  promoting  the  pivotal  role  of  our  Organization, 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  and 
promoting sustainable development. 
I cannot fail to commend the efforts of Mr. Peter 
Thomson  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  previous  session,  particularly  with  regard  to  the 
implementation  of  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. 
The  theme  of  this  session,  “Focusing  on  people: 
Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a 
sustainable planet”, is in line with the priorities of the 
Tunisian  Government  for  the  coming  period.  In  that 
respect,  Tunisia  has,  since  2011,  made  great  strides 
towards democratization and in promoting the rule of 
law  and  State  institutions.  That  includes  adopting  a 
Constitution  that  promotes  the  values  of  democracy, 
human  rights,  women’s  rights  and  youth  rights.  We 
also held our first fair and transparent legislative and 
presidential elections in 2014. 
investment  and 
As a young democracy, we are pursuing measures 
aimed  at  strengthening  constitutional  institutions  and 
structural  reforms  at  all  levels,  in  accordance  with  a 
clear vision and consensus that include all components 
of  Tunisian  society.  Achieving  development,  fighting 
corruption,  promoting 
reducing 
unemployment, as well as promoting good governance, 
while  focusing  at  the  same  time  on  combating  the 
scourge  of  terrorism  and  extremism,  have  presented 
many  challenges  on  which  we  have  focused  our 
national capacities. We are confident that brotherly and 
friendly countries and the United Nations will continue 
supporting us in our efforts. We appreciate in particular 
the significant pledges made by many parties to support 
development in Tunisia at the International Conference 
to Support Tunisia’s Economic, Social and Sustainable 
Development,  Tunisia  2020,  organized  in  Tunisia  on 
29 and 30 November 2016. 
I  note  that  Tunisia,  in  its  fight  against  terrorism, 
has had to redirect a significant portion of its resources 
originally allocated to development. We are confronting 
that  scourge  by  doubling  the  budget  for  our  military 
and security forces. Thanks to the unity of the Tunisian 
people — a society that is premised on justice, equality 
and openness — and their commitment to democracy, 
we  have  been  able  to  combat  terrorism  and  foil  its 
schemes.  That  has  enabled  us  to  restore  security  and 
stability and improve many economic indicators in our 
country. 
Tunisia  today  is  secure,  like  the  majority  of  the 
countries in the world. It is endeavouring to promote its 
young democracy and its economy through significant 
reforms  aimed  at  establishing  a  better  business 
environment  by  attracting  foreign  investment  and 
promoting tourism, as well as by seeking comprehensive 
development and meeting the needs and demands of our 
young people with regard to employment and a decent 
life. 
terrorism 
requires 
The scourge of terrorism derives its strength from 
proliferating  hotbeds  of  tension,  conflict  and  violent 
extremism. That exacerbates the challenges facing the 
international  community’s  fight  against  that  menace, 
which  excludes  no  region  and  recognizes  no  borders. 
Terrorism is also linked to all types of organized crime, 
the influx of refugees and migrants, human trafficking 
and the consequent large-scale violations of universal 
human rights. 
Combating 
international 
cooperation and comprehensive and inclusive strategic 
partnership. We are confident that boosting the economy 
and  development  of  our  country,  while  working  to 
ensure  social  peace  and  security,  requires  the  active 
engagement of the international community at large in 
supporting our implementation of all the ambitious goals 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  in 
particular those that address environmental challenges, 
while mitigating the impacts of climate change on the 
economies of developing countries and the livelihoods 
of their people. We have therefore mainstreamed those 
goals in our national development plan for 2016-2020, 
and  we  have  embarked  upon  implementing  them  in 
collaboration with the competent international agencies 
and  regional  structures  —  in  particular  the  African 
Union, given the nexus between those goals and Agenda 
2063 for African development.
17-29716
9/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
We are also preparing to release our first national 
report  on  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals for the consideration of the High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development.  In 
that respect, we would like to reiterate that it is important 
to  take  into  account  the  priorities  and  specificities 
of  each  region  and  country  when  dealing  with  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  Optimal  utilization  of  all  international 
and  regional  mechanisms,  especially  those  dedicated 
to  the  financing  of  development,  technology  transfer 
and  capacity-building,  would  support  the  efforts  of 
African nations to achieve steady economic growth and 
sustainable development so as to put an end to poverty, 
marginalization  and  epidemics  and  work  towards 
peaceful, 
inclusive  and  prosperous  African 
communities.
just, 
We  believe 
that  environmental  considerations 
are  important  in  achieving  sustainable  development 
for  all  the  world’s  nations.  We  therefore  signed  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  in  2015,  and  we 
voluntarily  committed  to  reducing  our  gas  emissions 
by 41 per cent by 2030. Our commitment has also been 
demonstrated by the nationally determined contribution 
devoted to the United Nations Framework Convention 
on Climate Change.
international  peace  and  security, 
Tunisia  upholds  the  principles  of  international 
supports  all  efforts  aimed  at 
legitimacy  and 
maintaining 
in 
particular by strengthening our contributions to United 
Nations  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  operations. 
Therefore,  efforts  to  promote  the  principles  of  justice 
and  equality  in  international  relations  would  benefit 
from improvements in the effectiveness of the United 
Nations work and its organs, in particular the Security 
Council,  so  that  the  Organization  can  better  assume 
its  crucial  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace and security.
The  security  and  stability  of  the  Arab  region  is 
an  integral  part  of  the  world’s  stability.  We  therefore 
call  for  immediate  political  settlements  of  issues  in 
our  region,  in  particular  the  Palestine  issue,  which 
requires  a  comprehensive  solution  that  brings  justice 
to  the  Palestinian  people,  ends  their  suffering  and 
enables  them  to  recover  their  legitimate  historical 
rights — especially the establishment of an independent 
State with East Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance 
with  international  parameters  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative.
I  seize  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our  ongoing 
concern over the Libyan crisis, and we reiterate Tunisia’s 
commitment to stand by our Libyan brethren and urge 
them  to  bridge  their  differences  and  swiftly  find  a 
comprehensive  political  settlement  to  the  crisis  there. 
Within the framework of our mediation efforts among 
Libyan  protagonists,  our  President  Essebsi  launched 
an  initiative  in  December  2016  for  a  comprehensive 
political  settlement  of  the  Libyan  crisis.  Tunisia, 
believing  in  the  role  of  neighbouring  countries,  has 
been keen to ensure positive engagement with Algeria 
and Egypt on the issue, so that we join our efforts to 
help the Libyans to end their differences and proceed 
with  the  political  solutions  sponsored  by  the  United 
Nations.
It is important to unite international efforts on the 
Libyan situation, so that we can ensure progress on the 
political path and achieve convergence among Libyans 
under  the  supervision  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Libya. That is especially true given that our Organization 
is  the  guarantor  for  implementing  commitments  and 
is  capable  of  adapting  any  amended  agreement  in 
accordance with Security Council resolutions. We seek 
in that connection to prevent any vacuum, which could 
worsen the anarchy and instability.
We  commend 
the  efforts  of 
the  Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General, Mr. Ghassan 
Salamé,  and  we  support  the  road  map  that  he  put 
forward  on  the  holding  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on 
Libya  on  20  September  and  his  call  for  the  Dialogue 
Committee  —  comprising 
the  Libyan  House  of 
Representatives and the State High Council — to launch 
a new round of talks in Tunisia within the framework 
of  the  United  Nations  Support  Mission  in  Libya  and, 
under  his  supervision,  to  introduce  the  consensual 
amendments  to  the  Libyan  Political  Agreement  of 
Skhirat. We hope that that step will act as a springboard 
for reconciliation and consensus in Libya.
We  reiterate  today  that  it  is  important  to  reach  a 
comprehensive  and  immediate  political  settlement  to 
the situation in Syria, and we urge the Syrian parties 
to  give  priority  to  the  vital  interests  of  their  nation 
with a view to reaching a consensus that preserves the 
unity and territorial integrity of Syria, putting an end to 
the catastrophic humanitarian tragedy endured by the 
Syrian people and addressing the serious ramifications 
of that conflict at the regional and international levels.
10/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
We  are  gravely  concerned  at  the  exacerbation  of 
the  security  and  humanitarian  situation  in  Yemen. 
That calls for redoubling international efforts to push 
forward  political  consultations  aimed  at  finding  a 
solution  to  that  crisis  in  a  manner  that  preserves  the 
territorial  integrity  and  resilience  of  the  country,  and 
puts an end to the humanitarian suffering endured by 
the Yemeni people. With regard to Iraq, we commend 
the  fact  that  that  brotherly  country,  in  collaboration 
with  the  international  coalition  against  Da’esh,  has 
made significant progress in its war against terror. We 
reiterate  Tunisia’s  solidarity  with  Iraq  in  combating 
that serious scourge.
Regarding the situation of the Rohingya Muslims in 
Myanmar, we reiterate our condemnation of the flagrant
violations  of  human  rights  against  that  minority.  We 
appeal  to  the  international  community  to  shoulder  its 
responsibilities and to swiftly intervene to provide the 
necessary  protection,  ensure  access  to  humanitarian 
assistance and save those people from the atrocities that 
they have been enduring.
We are confronted with many serious challenges and 
issues, such as hotbeds of tension, conflicts, combating 
terrorism  and  extremists,  addressing  the  proliferation 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  supporting  human 
rights, implementing development goals and reforming 
the United Nations, among other crucial matters. The 
role  of  the  United  Nations  is,  thus,  central  in  finding 
solutions to deal with those challenges. There is also a 
great responsibility that we need to bear in confronting 
the challenges caused by international transformations, 
for  which  we  need  to  shore  up  our  efforts.  On  this 
occasion,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  develop  the  United  Nations 
system,  particularly  with  regard  to  the  repositioning
of  the  United  Nations  development  system  and  the 
promotion  of  a  preventive  approach  in  resolving 
international  conflicts  and  maintaining  international 
peace and security.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  Tunisia’s  resolve  to 
continue  to  contribute  actively  to  international  action 
aimed  at  finding  sound  approaches  and  solutions  to 
those difficult issues in a manner that preserves human 
dignity and enables the nations of the world to devote 
their  efforts  and  resources  to  achieve  comprehensive 
and sustainable development in a world of tolerance and 
intercultural solidarity among nations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Don Pramudwinai, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Kingdom of Thailand. 
Mr. Pramudwinai (Thailand): I believe that I speak 
on behalf of everyone here when I say that our hearts 
and  prayers  are  with  everyone  in  the  small  States  of 
the Caribbean, now facing the devastating effects of a 
series of hurricanes. Our deepest sympathy and prayers 
are also with the people of Mexico, who have suffered 
immensely from the deadly earthquake on Tuesday.
Over the past few days, the words “we the peoples” 
have been echoed in the General Assembly many times. 
Thailand shares the view of Secretary-General Guterres 
and many Member States that we need to focus more 
on people and less on bureaucracy. The United Nations 
must be less about debates and more about actions that 
truly impact changes on the ground.
In the General Assembly this year, it is gratifying 
to  hear  world  leaders  focusing  on  people.  The  life, 
survival and prosperity of a nation depend on the quality 
of life of its people. When people live decent lives, they 
thrive and, in turn, nations and our planet prosper. On 
the other hand, if people still have to struggle in their 
daily  lives,  have  nothing  to  eat,  nowhere  to  sleep,  no 
schooling or health-care access, then the advancement 
of nations would be an unrealizable ambition. That is 
why we must focus on people.
In  fact,  we  have  long  focused  on  the  people  of 
Thailand. Our late King, His Majesty King Bhumibol 
Adulyadej,  told  us  to  listen  to  the  people  and  to 
learn  from  them.  He  said  that  those  living  in  the 
community know best about their conditions and needs. 
Development must not be top-down but bottom-up and 
must vary according to specific contexts. His Majesty 
laid  the  groundwork  for  the  people-centred  approach 
through the “sufficiency economy” philosophy, which 
stresses  self-development  and  places  emphasis  on 
everyone’s  potential  to  mould  their  own  future  and 
live  in  harmony  with  nature.  When  each  person  can 
contribute meaningfully to his or her community, the 
life of the nation will surely be good.
Based  on  the  sufficiency  economy  philosophy, 
the Royal Thai Government envisions the lives of our 
people and the life of our nation as stable, prosperous 
and sustainable. Our key national frameworks, namely, 
the  2017  Constitution,  the  20-year  National  Strategy 
Framework  and  the  twelfth  National  Economic  and 
Social Development Plan, have all been formulated to 
17-29716
11/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
focus on people first. Thailand has stepped up efforts 
to put in place a decentralized area-based development 
policy to empower those who will be affected and create 
a space to appreciate local wisdom and knowledge.
At  the  same  time,  Thailand  is  seeking  to  utilize 
science, technology and innovation to strengthen human 
capabilities and foster an enabling environment in our 
development  paradigm.  Currently,  we  aim  to  build  a 
value-based  economy  under  the  Thailand  4.0  policy. 
The value-based economy encompasses various types 
of economy: a circular economy, in which resources are 
utilized efficiently and in an environmentally friendly 
manner; a distributive economy, where development is 
inclusive;  and  an  innovative  economy,  where  growth 
springs  from  ideas  and  knowledge.  The  value-based 
economy under the Thailand 4.0 policy requires human 
wisdom even more than high technology. That is why 
we  are  focusing  on  our  people  and  putting  human 
life-cycle development as our priority.
Since  2002,  we  have  successfully  embarked  upon 
our  universal  health  coverage  system.  That  system 
represents  an  investment  in  our  people  and  our 
future.  At  present,  99.87  per  cent  of  the  population 
enjoys  some  kind  of  health  coverage.  The  Universal 
Health Coverage system has helped prevent more than 
100,000  households  from  falling  into  poverty  over 
the  past  decade.  As  Chair  of  the  Foreign  Policy  and 
Global Health Initiative, Thailand will present a draft 
resolution  at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
mark 12 December as World Universal Health Coverage 
Day. We hope to receive support from Member States 
in that regard.
Another recent example of how we focus on people 
is our national strategy to eliminate HIV/AIDS. By 2030, 
Thailand  aims  to  reduce  new  HIV  infections,  lower 
the  number  of  HIV/AIDS-related  deaths  and  reduce 
discrimination related to HIV and gender. We are also 
proud to say that in 2016 the World Health Organization 
recognized Thailand as the first country in Asia, and 
the second country in the world, to eliminate mother-
to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis.
The  world  is  going  through  a  critical  time  and  is 
facing a series of shared challenges, such as extremism, 
terrorism,  ongoing  conflicts  and  irregular  migration, 
along with environmental degradation, climate change 
and  natural  disasters.  Another  grave  concern  is  the 
nuclear  threat,  which  is  looming  over  us  and  feels 
more  real  now  than  ever  before.  It  is  at  times  like 
this  that  humankind  is  truly  being  tested.  Two  days 
ago  Thailand  signed  and  deposited  our  instrument  of 
ratification to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons. We are proud to be among the first countries 
to do so. We wish to call on others to do the same. By 
doing so, we are sending a message to our children and 
grandchildren that we care.
Thailand  shares  the  international  community’s 
grave  concern  about  the  situation  on  the  Korean 
peninsula,  where  we  encourage  all  parties  to  find  a 
peaceful  solution,  along  with  the  full  implementation 
of Security Council resolutions.
Thailand  is  also  deeply  concerned  about  ongoing 
violence and conflicts elsewhere in the world, including 
the  situation  in  Rakhine  state,  which  recently  caused 
hundreds of thousands of people to leave their homes. 
We are fully aware of the complexities of humanitarian 
situations,  which  cannot  be  solved  overnight.  Those 
situations call for long-term political and socioeconomic 
solutions. Sustaining peace and sustaining development 
must go hand in hand.
In order to enable people to have decent lives, we 
must  build  inclusive  societies  where  everyone  has  a 
sense of belonging and feels that his/her voice is heard 
and  their  views  taken  into  consideration.  We  must 
empower the most vulnerable in our societies — those 
suffering in poverty, women, children and persons with 
disabilities — and leave no one behind. Their rights and 
dignity must be respected. They must be protected by 
law and have equal access to justice. Only then can we 
realize a truly inclusive society with sustainable peace 
and development.
To sum up, my delegation would like to leave the 
Assembly with three key messages. 
First,  multilateralism  and  the  United  Nations 
in  particular,  has  a  great  role  to  play  in  fostering  the 
quality of our people’s lives. The United Nations must 
take  transformative  steps  to  live  up  to  today’s  reality 
and expectations. Development programmes, financial 
and  technical  assistance,  peace  operations,  security 
sanctions,  resource  mobilization,  and  environmental 
protection  programmes  must  all  truly  enhance  the 
quality  of  life  of  the  people.  The  work  of  the  United 
Nations  must  have  real  impact  on  the  ground.  The 
United Nations must be able to identify challenges based 
on the needs and particular situations of each country, 
and must be able to adapt its work in a responsive and 
flexible manner. It must also address the root cause of 
12/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
each problem, especially by addressing structural gaps 
and focusing more on prevention rather than on curing 
symptoms.
We  look  forward  to  hearing  more  details  on 
the  United  Nations  development  system  reform  and 
how  it  would  impact  action  on  the  ground,  enhance 
resource efficiency and synergize the work of regional 
commissions  and  United  Nations  country  teams.  We 
also wish to hear about innovative resource mobilization 
and  enhanced  partnerships  with  all  stakeholders, 
especially the private sector, academia and civil society. 
Partnerships,  particularly  with  science,  technology 
and  innovation  communities,  would  bring  about  the 
transformative push that is required in order to achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Secondly,  we  must  learn  to  mobilize  each  of  our 
diverse individual strengths. We must ensure that local 
wisdom and community knowledge are appreciated and 
integrated into our efforts. We must create a culture of 
partnerships that is based on mutual trust and respect. 
For our part, Thailand recognizes and appreciates the 
diversity of strengths of each stakeholder. We value the 
sharing of knowledge and experiences. It is in that spirit 
that  Thailand  has  launched  the  sufficiency  economy 
philosophy for the SDGs partnership so as to encourage 
the  sharing  of  the  sufficiency  economy  philosophy  in 
advancing the SDGs. As part of our efforts to promote 
South-South cooperation, last year Thailand supported 
the reopening of the United Nations Office for South-
South Cooperation for Asia and the Pacific in Thailand 
and has provided human resources to the Office.
Last  but  not  least,  focusing  on  people  is  not  only 
about  working  on  their  external  conditions.  The  first 
step of a successful transformation is to work on their 
mindsets,  especially  those  of  children  and  youth. 
We  must  not  forget  them,  and  their  voices  must  be 
heard — the future belongs to them. Therefore, we must 
ensure that children today grow up to become citizens 
of the world with global mindsets.
Everyone  can  be  an  agent  of  change.  If  people 
have  a  decent  life  and  feel  content  with  what  they 
have, eventually they will want to give and share. Our 
role  as  Governments  is  to  support  people,  create  an 
environment  that  enables  them  to  be  able  to  give  and 
share, and let people drive change.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Julie  Bishop,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Commonwealth of Australia.
Ms.  Bishop  (Australia):  The  United  Nations  was 
founded  in  response  to  the  horrors  of  the  Second 
World War. Nations resolved to prevent a repeat of that 
catastrophic global conflict. Over the decades since, we 
have  worked  together  to  build  an  international  rules-
based order that ensures that disputes can be resolved 
peacefully  and  the  interests  of  less  powerful  nations 
can be protected from the overt or coercive pressure of 
more powerful States. That order dictates how nations 
should behave towards each other. It has supported and 
enabled  the  greatest  economic  expansion  in  human 
history.  There  have  been  times  over  the  past  seven 
decades  when  the  rules-based  order  has  been  under 
pressure. We are now in a time when the challenges to 
that order are increasing.
is 
The  Security  Council 
the  custodian  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Yet  the  authority 
of  the  Council  is  being  challenged,  undermined  and 
even  ignored.  The  most  egregious  example  of  that  is 
North  Korea.  The  regime  of  Kim  Jong  Un  is  openly 
defying  the  Security  Council.  Its  illegal  nuclear  and 
missile programmes violate multiple Security Council 
resolutions.  The  security  of  millions  of  people  is  at 
risk  as  a  result  of  North  Korea’s  refusal  to  abide  by 
international laws and norms.
The  International  Monitoring  System  of 
the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty confirms that 
North Korea is the only State that is currently testing 
nuclear  weapons,  and  the  only  State  to  do  so  this 
century. The Security Council has responded with tough 
new economic sanctions. It is crucial that all Member 
States, especially the five permanent members, which 
have  a  particular  responsibility,  strictly  implement 
those sanctions so as to compel North Korea to abandon 
its illegal programmes.
The  authority  of  the  Council  must  be  defended 
and  upheld.  Australia  will  play  its  part  in  helping  to 
resolve that crisis. We have already put in place a range 
of  autonomous  sanctions  beyond  those  mandated  by 
the Security Council. We will explore further options 
should North Korea continue its flagrant disregard of 
the views of the international community, as upheld by 
the Security Council.
The  rules-based  order  is  also  being  challenged 
by  non-State  actors,  terrorists  and  violent  extremists. 
Global  terrorism  and  the  extreme  Islamist  ideologies 
driving  it  must  be  confronted  and  defeated.  Many 
nations,  including  Australia,  have  suffered  terrorist 
17-29716
13/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
attacks.  We  can  most  effectively  combat  and  defeat 
terrorism if we work together, sharing our knowledge 
and  resources.  Our  work  has  continued  this  week  at 
meetings  of  the  Global  Counterterrorism  Forum  and 
the United States-led coalition against Da’esh. 
The  use  of  chemical  weapons  presents  another 
serious  threat  to  the  rules-based  order.  We  know  that 
they  were  used  in  Syria.  Australia  supports  the  work 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for  the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in identifying those 
who  deployed  such  appalling  illegal  weapons.  That 
work  must  continue.  Australia  chairs  the  42-member 
Australia Group, which works to prevent the spread of 
chemical and biological weapons.
Our  rules-based  order  has  been  supported  by 
institutions  and,  over  the  decades,  United  Nations 
peacekeepers  have  become  the  defining  image  of 
the  United  Nations  response  to  conflict  and  security 
threats.  Fifteen  peacekeeping  missions  are  currently 
deployed across four continents. Often, they are the only 
authority  preventing  civil  breakdown  and  lawlessness 
in  countries  that  are  already  suffering  from  conflict, 
poverty and despair.
Australia has been a long-term supporter of United 
Nations  peacekeeping.  Last  week  in  Canberra,  we 
commemorated the seventieth anniversary of the first 
such  mission,  noting  that,  in  1947,  Australia  was  the 
first nation to deploy into the field military observers 
to monitor the ceasefire in the then Dutch East Indies. 
We  have  contributed  to  20  more  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions.
We support the work that is under way to ensure that 
United Nations peacekeepers are better trained, better 
equipped, more effective and act with greater integrity. 
Peacekeepers  operate  in  dangerous  and  unpredictable 
environments and represent one of the most important 
global investments in peace and security.
Australia  welcomes  the  new  Secretary-General, 
who  has  committed  to  reforming  the  United  Nations 
in  order  to  make  it  more  effective  as  the  defender 
and upholder of the rules-based order. Australia fully 
supports Secretary-General Guterres in that endeavour. 
The United Nations must focus on conflict prevention, 
as  that  is  more  effective  than  dealing  with  the  tragic 
consequences of conflict. United Nations management 
systems must be made more efficient and accountable. 
There must be more women in senior positions. In order 
to  achieve  reform,  Secretary-General  Guterres  needs 
the full support of Member States. 
The standing of the United Nations is maximized 
when we work together for the common good. Recent 
successes prove that to be true, such as the global Arms 
Trade Treaty, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  If  we  are  to 
meet the challenges of our age, we must be guided by 
a spirit of cooperation and compromise. Central to our 
task is achieving sustainable and inclusive development. 
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  more  effective  and 
agile role.
aimed 
at 
providing 
The  development  system  of  the  United  Nations 
should  be  more  focused  on  sustainable  economic 
development 
employment 
opportunities  and  facilitating  partnerships  with  the 
private sector. Economic development and security are 
interlinked. One cannot be achieved without the other. 
Each country has to find its own model for prosperity 
and  stability.  However,  there  are  many  lessons  to 
be  learned  from  other  nations,  and  much  support  is 
available  for  nations  that  are  seeking  to  establish 
regulatory  frameworks,  particularly  with  respect  to 
supporting private investment that helps economies to 
grow and generates employment. Economic resilience 
can  also  be  undermined  by  natural  and  man-made 
disasters.
With  the  2030  Agenda,  the  Paris  Agreement, 
the  Sendai  Declaration  and  the  World  Humanitarian 
Summit’s  grand  bargain,  there  is  a  blueprint  for 
global  action  that  addresses  the  problems  that  can  be 
addressed only by working together on the challenges 
we  face,  which  do  not  respect  national  borders.  That 
includes  climate  change,  diseases,  including  malaria, 
the  management  of  our  precious  water  resources,  and 
modern  slavery.  It  is  an  unpalatable  truth  that  forced 
labour,  child  labour,  human  trafficking  and  modern 
slavery are rampant in the world. Australia has strongly 
committed to working with the international community 
to urgently address those egregious crimes. Last month, 
Australia  and  Indonesia  jointly  launched  the  world’s 
first regional business-Government partnership aimed 
at  addressing  modern  slavery,  and  we  have  continued 
our advocacy on that issue with other nations this week. 
We  will  end  such  abhorrent  practices.  I  want  to  pay 
tribute to Andrew, Nicola and Grace Forest for starting 
the Walk Free Foundation and inspiring our work.
14/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
Australia  is  a  strong  supporter  of  the  Paris 
Agreement,  and  here  at  the  United  Nations  we  have 
voiced  our  support,  specifically  on  risk  mitigation 
for  coral  reefs,  which  are  among  the  most  valuable 
environments  on  our  planet.  They  support  more 
biodiversity  than  almost  any  other  ecosystem,  are 
vital  to  the  world’s  fisheries,  protect  our  coastlines 
and  generate  significant  tourist  revenue.  Coral  reefs 
sequester four times more carbon than forests and are a 
vital element in our global efforts to reduce emissions. 
Worldwide,  more  than  30  coral  reefs  are  listed  as 
World Heritage Sites, and 29 are under stress. As the 
custodians  of  the  Great  Barrier  Reef  and  with  our 
extensive  experience  in  reef  management,  we  seek  to 
bring our expertise to other locations. We hope to serve 
on the World Heritage Committee next year.
Australia has worked with other countries on each 
of those issues during the past week. We are mindful 
that no matter how much we work on building strong, 
resilient societies, crises will still occur. Australia has 
been  a  strong  contributor  to  relief  efforts  in  Iraq  and 
Syria, as well as in South Sudan, Somalia and Yemen, 
where there are significant numbers of displaced people 
at increasing risk of famine. Australia is also supporting 
those displaced by conflict in Rakhine state, Myanmar. 
We are contributing to funding life-saving food for up 
to 300,000 people.
Australia  also  seeks  to  serve,  for  the  first  time, 
on  the  Human  Rights  Council,  starting  in  2018.  I  am 
grateful for the strong support from so many countries 
for  our  candidacy.  If  elected,  we  will  be  a  principled 
and pragmatic member of the Council. Australia would 
be the first nation from the South-West Pacific on the 
Council.  We  will  promote  an  agenda  relevant  both  to 
our region and to the planet. Empowering women and 
girls  so  that  they  can  reach  their  full  potential  lifts  a 
country’s  productivity  and  underpins  stability.  We 
will  support  the  freedom  of  expression.  The  number 
of  journalists  and  human  rights  defenders  detained, 
abused or killed each year should be of grave concern 
to us all. We will support good governance and strong 
democratic  institutions.  Similarly,  we  will  promote 
strong, independent national human rights institutions 
in  order  to  raise  awareness  of  human  rights,  address 
violations  and  hold  to  account  those  responsible  for 
abuses.
Australia  is  proud  to  be  the  home  of  the  world’s 
oldest continuous culture, and we will strive to advance 
the  human  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  around  the 
globe.  Australia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples.  We 
will  also  work  with  other  members  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness of the Human Rights Council, so that its 
work can make a meaningful difference to the lives of 
individuals around the world. The Council must remain 
relevant  to  the  broader  international  agenda,  while 
making  a  contribution  to  building  stable,  prosperous 
and compassionate societies.
We all strive for an environment in which countries 
can  grow  and  prosper  and  in  which  individuals  can 
aspire  to  a  life  unburdened  by  the  threat  of  violence, 
an  environment  driven  by  a  shared  vision  of  peace, 
compassion  and  community.  For  its  part,  Australia 
will work with others to protect an international order 
that  ensures  that  all  States  can  pursue  their  interests 
securely and supports cooperative responses to global 
challenges. 
The  United  Nations  can  become  an  even  more 
powerful  force  for  stability  in  an  uncertain  world.  It 
can  live  up  to  the  ideals  and  universal  principles  on 
which it was founded. The people of our world expect 
the Organization to inspire the best in human nature, 
and that is our duty.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Péter  Szijjártó,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of Hungary.
Mr.  Szijjártó  (Hungary):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election 
to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  For  those 
of us from Central Europe, it is highly significant that 
a  Central  European  candidate  was  elected  to  such  an 
important  position.  It  shows  that  Central  Europe  is  a 
strong region that has attained success through policies 
that  are  based  on  rationality  and  common  sense.  His 
election,  along  with  the  fact  that  Poland  was  elected 
to  the  Security  Council  as  a  non-permanent  member, 
serves as proof that the Visegrad Group is strong and 
capable of speaking with a loud, united voice.
Now,  as  we  convene  at  the  General  Assembly,  it 
is evident that we are living in extremely challenging 
times.  Economic,  political,  defence  and  military 
relations are changing extremely rapidly. Coming from 
Central  Europe,  I  would  like  to  highlight  three  very 
important  issues  from  our  perspective:  migration  and 
the  threat  of  terrorism,  the  relationship  between  the 
East and the West, and the rights of national minorities.
17-29716
15/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
Europe  currently  finds  itself  on  the  front  lines  of 
significant  global  changes.  Since  the  end  of  the  Cold 
War, Europe has never had to face as many challenges 
as  it  does  now.  As  a  result  of  the  migration  crisis, 
Europe is facing the most serious threat of terrorism in 
its history. The European Union is facing its toughest 
challenges  since  its  foundation.  Western  Europe  used 
to be the most secure, safest and most peaceful region 
globally. A couple of years ago, we watched the news 
on  television  about  terror  in  the  Middle  East,  and  we 
were  sure  that  such  events  would  surely  never  take 
place  in  Europe.  To  the  contrary,  the  fear  of  terrorist 
attacks  has  become  a  part  of  everyday  life.  Between 
2015 and 2017, Europe suffered 30 major terror attacks, 
which  took  300  innocent  lives.  Churches,  airports, 
beaches and concerts have become sites for execution, 
which can take place within a couple of seconds. That 
development is a direct consequence of two phenomena. 
The first is the massive influx of illegal migrants. 
During  the  past  two  and  a  half  years,  1.5  million 
illegal migrants have entered European Union territory 
without any kind of control, checks or regulation. That 
has  definitely  provided  an  opportunity  for  terrorist 
organizations to take advantage of that flow and send 
their terrorists and fighters to the European continent.
Secondly — and here I will surely offend some by 
breaking  taboos  and  challenging  dogma  —  we  must 
admit that the earlier social integration procedures in 
the  Western  part  of  Europe  have  failed.  Some  of  the 
attempts  to  integrate  migrants  who  arrived  in  Europe 
previously have been totally unsuccessful and, in many 
places in Western Europe, parallel societies have been 
constructed.
We  must  honestly  admit  that  we  are  shocked, 
after  the  barbaric  terrorist  attacks  in  Europe,  the 
massive  violations  of  national  and  international  laws 
and  regulations,  and  the  loss  of  thousands  of  lives 
on  the  Mediterranean  Sea  and  elsewhere,  that  there 
are  still  leaders  of  international  organizations  and 
representatives  of  powerful  countries  who  claim 
forcefully  that  migration  is  a  favourable  phenomenon 
that is to be encouraged. That is extremely irresponsible 
and  unacceptable  behaviour.  Encouraging  waves  of 
migrants endangers tens of thousands of people — there 
are those who risk their lives to reach a place where they 
think  they  might  find  a  better  way  of  life,  and  those 
who are put at risk of becoming victims of the terrorists 
who seek to take advantage of those migratory waves.
Hungary’s  position  is  quite  clear.  All  States  have 
the  fundamental  right  and  responsibility  to  ensure 
the  security  of  their  own  people,  all  States  have  the 
fundamental  right  and  responsibility  to  protect  their 
own  borders,  and  all  States  have  the  fundamental 
right  and  responsibility  to  make  decisions  on  their 
own — including as to whom they allow to enter their 
territory and whom they do not.
Hungary  has  made  enormous  efforts  to  comply 
with  its  international  obligations.  We  have  spent 
€800 million on protecting not only ourselves and the 
border of Hungary but also the external border of the 
European Union and the external border of the Schengen 
Area.  We  have  also  built  physical  infrastructure  and 
mobilized human resources. Again, altogether that has 
cost €800 million.
I must remind the Assembly that this is not the first 
time in history that we have had to protect the Western 
part of Europe as well as ourselves. But of course, as 
we are a Christian country, we accept our responsibility 
to help those in need. Hungary’s principle is to provide 
help  when  it  is  needed,  and  that  is  why  we  help  and 
assist Christian communities in the Middle East so that 
they can stay or return once conflicts are over.
We  have  spent  almost  €2  million  rebuilding  200 
houses  in  the  Iraqi  township  of  Telsqof,  making  it 
possible for more than 1,300 people to return. We have 
spent €4 million on building schools, covering medical 
expenses and ensuring that Christian communities are 
able to stay and flourish. We offer 100 scholarships on 
an annual basis to youngsters whose families are being 
persecuted in the region.
We understand that the rights of people should be 
restored when they have been violated. We must work 
to help people stay as close to their homes as possible, 
and we have to help people return to their homes as soon 
as possible. We call for more support for countries that 
have taken care of refugees from war-torn areas, such 
as Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and the Kurdish region of 
Iraq.  However,  we  are  all  aware  that  a  complete  and 
definitive solution for the migration crisis can emerge 
only  by  tackling  the  root  causes,  which  includes 
overcoming military conflicts beyond Europe’s borders 
and eliminating terrorist organizations. 
I  would  like  to  turn  now  to  my  second  point, 
namely, the relationship between the East and the West. 
I represent a small Central European country, and we 
are  all  aware  that  major  international  conflicts  can 
16/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
be  resolved  through  agreements  between  the  super-
Powers of the West and the East. This is why pragmatic 
cooperation between East and West is necessary if we 
wish to eliminate the most dangerous terrorist groups 
worldwide.  Hungary  is  therefore  proud  to  contribute 
200 troops to the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq 
and the Sham.
Cooperation  between  the  East  and  the  West  is 
necessary  if  we  wish  to  overcome  the  war  and  create 
peace in Syria, thereby making it possible for people to 
return and in order to decrease the migratory pressure 
on Europe. It is necessary to create peace in Libya and 
ensure stability there for the future. It is also necessary 
to  address  the  extraordinary  challenge  posed  by  a 
communist dictator who is threatening the world with a 
nuclear programme, violating all possible international 
regulations and values.
We  Central  Europeans  read  this  from  history: 
whenever there is a conflict between the East and the 
West, Central Europe will certainly lose out. We do not 
want  to  be  losers  anymore.  That  is  why  we  call  for  a 
better and more pragmatic relationship and cooperation 
between the East and the West based on mutual trust 
and respect for each other and for international law.
In my third, and final, point from a Central European 
angle, I would like to highlight the importance of the 
rights of national minorities, which is a highly sensitive 
issue  for  Hungary,  as  millions  of  Hungarians  live 
outside  our  borders.  The  rights  of  national  minorities 
are  among  the  most  highly  protected  in  international 
relations.  There  is  an  international  consensus  —  we 
believe, at least — that the rights of national minorities 
must be respected by all members of the international 
community,  and  discrimination  against  any  kind  of 
minority is simply unacceptable.
One  of  the  most  important  elements  of  national 
minority  rights  is  the  right  to  use  and  receive 
education  in  one’s  mother  tongue.  Why  is  that  so 
important? Because the best way to create difficulties 
for national minorities is to prohibit them from using 
their native language by law. It is not an accident that 
language  rights  are  also  enshrined  in  a  variety  of 
guiding documents and international standards on the 
matter,  such  as  the  1992  United  Nations  Declaration 
on  the  Rights  of  Persons  Belonging  to  National  or 
Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, the three 
principles on language and education of UNESCO and 
the  various  recommendations  of  the  United  Nations 
Forum on Minority Issues on the implementation of the 
the  Declaration.  Those  documents  describe  a  similar 
basic approach for State authorities to meet their human 
rights obligations involving language.
Unfortunately, the Parliament of Ukraine adopted 
a new law on education on 5 September. That new law 
drastically curbs the already acquired level of minority 
rights in education and language use. The new law takes 
away the right to receive an education in their mother 
tongue  from  all  children  older  than  10.  It  is  a  shame 
that  we  are  seeing  that  kind  of  legislation  adopted  in 
the  twenty-first  century  in  a  country  that  is  making 
great efforts to make quick progress on the economic 
integration process of its Association Agreement with 
the  European  Union.  That  law  clearly  discriminates 
against the minorities living in Ukraine.
Article  1  of  the  UNESCO  Convention  against 
Discrimination in Education clearly states that,
term 
includes 
‘discrimination’ 
any 
“[t]he 
distinction,  exclusion,  limitation  or  preference 
which, being based on race, colour, sex, language, 
religion,  political  or  other  opinion,  national  or 
social  origin,  economic  condition  or  birth,  has 
the  purpose  or  effect  of  nullifying  or  impairing 
equality of treatment in education”.
It is obvious that the new Ukrainian law on education 
clearly violates those United Nations conventions and 
international norms. We therefore stress that it would 
establish  a  very  dangerous  precedent  if  the  United 
Nations were not to act and remained silent in that regard.  
We 
the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights to begin investigating 
the  new  Ukrainian  law  on  education  and  use  all  the 
means at his disposal to address the serious violations 
of fundamental minority rights brought on by the new 
Ukrainian law.
strongly  urge 
Hungary  will  always 
stand  by  Hungarian 
communities, regardless where they live in the world, 
and we will never let them down. That is our obligation. 
That is our responsibility, and it comes from our heart, 
as well.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Abdelkader Messahel, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Algeria.
Mr.  Messahel  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  warmest 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav 
congratulations 
17-29716
17/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
Lajčák on his election to the presidency to the General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session. We assure him 
of my country’s full support. I would also like to express 
my appreciation and gratitude to his predecessor, His 
Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson, Foreign Minister of Fiji. 
I  thank  him  for  the  excellent  work  that  he  performed 
during the past session
At  each  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we 
repeat our diagnosis of the miserable state of the world. 
Unfortunately, this session is no exception, given that 
it is being held in a context in which protracted crises 
continue,  new  and  bloody  conflicts  are  breaking  out 
and hotspots are waiting for settlements that are harder 
to  achieve  than  ever  before.  Our  time  is  also  marked 
by  the  fragile  ecological  balance  of  the  planet  owing 
to  all  of  the  damage  that  it  has  incurred.  We  add  to 
that extreme poverty, backwardness and diseases that 
continue to kill millions, as well as threats spreading 
across  borders,  such  as  terrorism  and  the  associated 
organized  crime,  which  directly  affect  the  safety  and 
stability of our countries.
that  we 
face 
The 
challenges 
cannot  be 
underestimated,  nor  can  they  be  ignored.  In  every 
situation,  we  must  not  doubt  our  ability  to  confront 
those  challenges  and  overcome  them.  In  the  words  of 
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, which he shared with 
the General Assembly as President at its twenty-ninth 
session in 1974: 
  “[o]ur  responsibility  is  less  to  turn  our  backs  on 
reality than, rather, to face up to it rigorously and 
vigilantly”. (A/PV.2233, para. 27)
Despite the fact that the United Nations can be improved 
in more than one area, it remains the only crucial means 
at nations’ disposal and has been described by President 
Bouteflika as representing a monument of harmony and 
solidarity among all the nations of the world.
  I  would  like  to  express  our  satisfaction  with  the 
topic  of  this  year’s  session,  namely,  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a  sustainable  planet”,  which  powerfully  encapsulates 
the challenges that we are facing today. In confronting 
numerous  crises,  hotspots  and  the  terrible  human 
tragedies  that  they  leave  in  their  wake,  we  can  only 
question our collective conscience over the deep-rooted 
causes that have led to the failure of the collective security 
system that was designed by the founding fathers of our 
Organization  as  a  fortress  that  would  forever  protect 
future  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war.  We  must 
therefore work in unison to reform the Organization so 
that it can fully shoulder the responsibilities that it was 
established to assume, whether in terms of preventing 
conflict, promoting peace or respecting human rights, 
or in realizing the right to self-determination.
The  time  has  come  to  implement  a  fundamental 
reform  for  the  Organization,  including  its  structure 
and management, and, in the reform process, we must 
primarily  focus  on  the  Security  Council  as  a  starting 
point. We must remedy the historical injustice embodied 
in  the  absence  of  African  representation  in  both 
categories  of  membership  of  that  organ.  Membership 
must  be  expanded  so  that  it  represents  the  important 
actors in the international arena.
I  believe  that  there  is  also  growing  consensus  on 
the  need  to  revitalize  and  strengthen  the  authority  of 
the  General  Assembly,  which  for  the  first  time  has 
interacted  directly  and  innovatively  in  the  process 
of  the  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General,  thereby  confirming  its  trust  in  him  and  his 
legitimacy  to  fulfil  his  mandate.  That  selection  was 
unanimous.  The  appointment  of  Mr.  Guterres,  whose 
personal  and  professional  characteristics  we  admire, 
was unanimous, which confirms the appropriateness of 
the new procedure.
Algeria remains committed to certain basic foreign-
policy principles that are derived from the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  namely,  respect  for  the  independence 
and  territorial  integrity  of  States,  non-intervention  in 
other countries’ internal affairs, the peaceful settlement 
of conflicts and the right to self-determination. Algeria 
will continue to act in accordance with those principles 
and  will  always  support  political  rather  than  military 
solutions in the settlement of conflicts, be they in Syria, 
Yemen, Mali, Libya or elsewhere.
With  regard  to  two  of  its  neighbours,  Algeria  is 
convinced that the people of Mali must choose dialogue 
and  negotiations  if  the  country  is  to  overcome  the 
difficulties  that  lie  in  the  path  of  implementing  the 
Agreement  on  Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  Mali.  In 
order for Libyans to preserve their unity and territorial 
integrity, it is crucial that they settle their differences 
under the supervision of the Special Representative of 
the Secretary-General, with the support of neighbouring 
countries. On the other hand, we in Algeria believe that 
the Western Sahara issue is a matter of decolonization, 
which falls within the purview of the United Nations. 
Accordingly,  we  believe  that  there  can  be  no  viable 
18/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
solution  if  the  people  of  Western  Sahara  are  not  able 
to exercise their legitimate right to self-determination. 
In  that  regard,  Algeria  hopes  that  the  appointment  of 
Mr. Horst Köhler as United Nations Personal Envoy for 
Western Sahara will help to bring about the resumption 
of  negotiations  between  the  two  sides  to  the  conflict, 
namely, the Kingdom of Morocco and Frente Polisario, 
and assist in moving the country along the path towards 
decolonization,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
international  legitimacy  and  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions. 
Algeria would like once again to express its regret 
over  the  inability  of  the  international  community  to 
put  an  end  to  Israel’s  occupation  of  Arab  territories. 
We reiterate our support for the Palestinian people as 
they strive to regain their legitimate national rights and 
establish  their  independent  State  with  Al-Quds  as  its 
capital.
Combating 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism, 
which is a source of terrorism, unfortunately remains a 
priority on the international agenda. The terrorist threat 
has been far-reaching in nature and continues to be so. 
We  are  reminded  of  that  fact  by  the  tragedies  caused 
by  the  numerous  terrorist  attacks  in  the  Middle  East 
and Sahel regions, not to mention the long list of such 
attacks perpetrated this year in other parts of the world. 
Extremism is spreading at an ever-faster rate owing to 
the  emergence  of  the  Internet  and  social  networking 
sites. The Organization’s strategy for combating violent 
extremism must therefore take that reality into account. 
It must also prompt countries to combat the spread of 
Islamophobia at the individual and collective levels. 
We  also  note  that  the  repatriation  of  foreign 
terrorist fighters requires the international community 
to  mobilize  greater  efforts  to  counter  the  dangerous 
threats that they bring back to their countries of origin. 
Algeria is fully aware of the dangers of terrorism and 
transborder organized crime in its immediate vicinity. 
Algeria  maintains  the  highest  degree  of  caution 
internally  and  on  its  borders,  thereby  enhancing  its 
commitment  to  combating  those  phenomena  at  the 
regional and international levels.
Algeria’s  experiences  have  been  recorded 
in 
two  published  collections,  one  of  which  pertains  to 
democracy  and  the  role  of  national  reconciliation 
in  combating  terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  The 
evolving nature of migration, be it legal or illegal, will 
inevitably offer opportunities to benefit our economies 
and societies. However, some forms of migration cause 
extreme  harm  to  those  involved,  as  well  as  to  the 
countries connected with the phenomenon. 
By virtue of its geographical location, Algeria is at 
the forefront in dealing with unregulated migration. In 
the past, Algeria was a country of origin and a transit 
country,  but  today  Algeria  is  a  destination  country 
for  such  human  flows.  As  a  result,  it  understands 
the  complex  nature  of  the  issue.  We  believe  that  it 
is  important  to  continue  to  work  together  to  find 
comprehensive, 
integrated  and  balanced  solutions 
based  on  a  fair  division  of  responsibilities,  with  a 
view to preserving the dignity of those who have been 
forced by fear or poverty to take the dangerous road of 
migration, exposing themselves to the risk of abuse by 
organized transborder criminal gangs. 
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the third International 
Conference on Financing for Development have offered 
some important gains, and we must mobilize all ways 
and means to fulfil and preserve them. We believe that 
we  have  an  excellent  tool  in  our  hands,  namely,  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  related 
entities,  for  helping  developing  States  to  formulate 
policy and undertake domestic development efforts. 
Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  inform  the 
General  Assembly  of  some  of  the  domestic  activities 
that Algeria has been undertaking. 
Pursuant  to  the  directives  of  the  President  of  the 
Republic, in July 2016 we adopted a new development 
plan that aims to expand our emerging national economy 
with an eye on the 2030 horizon. The plan involves the 
rational  management  of  financial  resources  so  that 
the gains achieved through social justice and national 
cohesion  may  be  preserved.  In  that  regard,  Algeria 
has committed itself to implementing Agenda 2030 by 
mobilizing national efforts and taking advantage of the 
capacities of all partners, including civil society. Those 
efforts, which involve all sectors, seek to diversify the 
national economy and achieve sustainable development.
Having  realized  the  need  to  enhance  the  rights 
and  independence  of  women  and  in  the  light  of  the 
attention that the United Nations gives to those issues, 
I  would  like  to  reiterate  Algeria’s  commitment  to  the 
subject  of  women’s  rights.  The  Algerian  Constitution 
was  amended  in  2016  to  enshrine  that  deliberate 
approach, and that has been reflected in the improved 
situation  of  women  in  rural  areas,  in  local  councils, 
17-29716
19/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
in  both  chambers  of  Parliament,  as  well  as  in  the  top 
positions in the State. That won Algeria an award from 
the African Union in 2016, as part of its Human Rights 
Decade. Algeria received another award in 2017 in the 
area of enhancing the rights of women. 
Youth  constitute  three  quarters  of  the  population 
and  are  considered  another  major  priority  of  the 
Algerian State, which, in a constitutional amendment, 
established a High Council for Youth. Moreover, Algeria 
has  for  years  been  working  hard  to  take  advantage 
of  that  important  human  resource,  which  is  of  such 
socioeconomic  importance.  The  educational  sector 
has  also  witnessed  important  efforts  by  Government 
authorities to offer education to youth, that important 
part of society. 
Algeria has been ranked third in Africa and first in 
the Maghreb area in human development. 
It is also worth mentioning that in August Gallup 
Inc., an international institute for opinion polls, ranked 
Algeria sixth on its list of safest countries in the world.
Those  are  the  points  that  I  wanted  to  leave  with 
the membership on behalf of Algeria as we commence 
our work at the seventy-second session of the General 
Assembly.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Amina Chawahir Mohamed, Cabinet Secretary for 
Foreign Affairs and International Trade of the Republic 
of Kenya.
Ms. Mohamed (Kenya): I am delighted to address 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
I  convey  to  all  warm  greetings  and  best  wishes  from 
the President of the Republic of Kenya, His Excellency 
Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta,  whom  I  have  the  honour  to 
represent here today. The President is committed to the 
agenda of this session and its overall objectives.
I  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to 
preside over the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session. I also congratulate His Excellency Mr. António 
Guterres  on  his  participation  for  the  first  time  in  the 
General  Assembly  as  Secretary-General.  I  would  say 
to  him  that  I  am  encouraged  by  his  commitment  to 
empower the world’s women and girls, because, as he 
said, 
the  United  Nations  will 
“Parity  at 
improve 
performance  at  the  United  Nations”.  (A/72/PV.1, 
p.3)
He  can  count  on  Kenya’s  support  for 
commitment.
that 
The world faces enormous challenges ranging from 
poverty, global terrorism, climate change, conflicts and 
inequality, to the unfolding threats to the liberal order 
that  have  governed  the  world  in  the  post-war  era.  At 
stake  in  all  those  challenges  is  the  well-being  of  the 
people,  the  vast  majority  of  whom  are  suffering  the 
brunt  of  those  challenges  and  whose  livelihoods  are 
becoming increasingly uncertain. Describing the state 
of the world at the time of the Industrial Revolution, the 
English writer Charles Dickens said: “It was the best of 
times, it was the worst of times.” That is still an apt way 
of describing the state of the world today with all of its 
challenges and opportunities.
Kenya welcomes the theme of the seventy-second 
session,  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and 
a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”.  Kenya 
agrees with and supports the priorities for action that 
the President has outlined to guide the focus on people, 
namely, peace and conflict prevention; migration; the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals;  climate  action;  and 
human rights. Those priorities are urgent and deserve 
the attention not only of Governments but also of the 
private  sector  and  civil  society.  Kenya  acknowledges 
the importance of the Sustainable Development Goals as 
an appropriate response to the pressing challenges that 
we face today. We played a key role in the formulation 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  as  co-Chair  of 
the  Open  Working  Group,  and  we  remain  committed 
to translating that transformative agenda into tangible 
action for our people without leaving any one behind.
However,  we 
recognize 
that  achieving 
the 
Sustainable Development Goals will be as much about 
the effectiveness of development cooperation as it will 
be about the scale and form such cooperation actually 
takes.  There  is  a  lot  of  talk  about  partnerships  today, 
but not enough of the practical, on-the-ground support 
needed to make partnerships effective in practice. As 
a  country,  we  have  stepped  up  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  the  health  sector, 
for example, our Government now offers free maternal 
health-care services across our country. We next intend 
to cover health-care services for women, children and 
adolescents.  Confirming  that  commitment  two  years 
ago, President Kenyatta said: 
“I pledge to take the needed sustainable actions to 
end all preventable deaths of women, children and 
20/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
adolescents  within  a  generation  and  ensure  their 
well-being, and we hold ourselves accountable for 
our collective progress towards that goal.” 
Together with the United Nations family in Kenya, 
we  have  also  established  a  Sustainable  Development 
Goal partnership platform that seeks to accelerate the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals in 
Kenya. The platform brings together the Government, 
development partners, the private sector, civil society 
and  the  United  Nations.  The  platform  has  created 
diverse  Sustainable  Development  Goal  accelerator 
windows,  of  which  primary  health  care  has  been 
the  first.  That  partnership  has  resulted  in  a  drastic 
reduction  in  maternal  and  child  deaths.  We  intend  to 
transform  primary  care  to  pave  the  way  for  universal 
health coverage for all of 46 million Kenyans by 2021, 
thereby  ensuring,  as  we  pledged,  that  no  one  is  left 
behind.
Climate  change  in  our  region  is  disrupting  the 
livelihoods  of  millions  of  people  and  generating 
conflicts over dwindling resources, especially land and 
water.  Climate  change  today  costs  Kenya’s  economy 
approximately  3  per  cent  in  gross  domestic  product 
annually.  Kenya  has  enacted  legislation  to  implement 
the Paris Agreement in order to address that problem. 
We  have  committed  to  a  30  per  cent  reduction  in 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  by  2030,  relative  to  the 
business-as-usual scenario, and subject to the necessary 
financing,  technology  transfer  and  capacity-building, 
as agreed in Paris. The capacity of our planet to sustain 
life  is  under  threat,  and  the  need  to  address  climate 
change is not a choice; it is an urgent imperative.
We  commend  the  United  Nations  for  the  steps 
that  have  been  taken  to  strengthen  and  upgrade  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP)  in 
accordance with the Rio +20 Declaration. We welcome 
the step towards universal membership and the efforts to 
enhance the financing and ability of UNEP to fulfil its 
unique coordination mandate within the United Nations 
system. I am happy to say that, since its establishment, 
the United Nations Environment Assembly has helped 
the  world  refocus  on  the  environment.  Through  the 
work  of  the  Assembly,  which  is  now  the  de  facto 
world  parliament  for  the  environment,  decisions  that 
contribute to the well-being of our planet are now being 
universally respected.
I  call  upon  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations to strengthen UNEP so that it can effectively 
respond  to  global  environmental  challenges.  In  that 
regard,  Kenya  insists  on  the  implementation  of  the 
decision by Heads of State, now enshrined in the Rio 
Declaration, to consolidate the headquarters functions 
of UNEP in Nairobi at its headquarters in Kenya. That 
matter is of grave concern and continues not to receive 
the  attention  it  deserves.  The  importance  of  having 
UNEP in Kenya, which lies in the global South, cannot 
be overemphasized.
Kenya welcomes the creation of the United Nations 
Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  and  looks  forward  to 
robust  and  productive  engagement  with  it.  We  expect 
the  Office  to  support  all  other  United  Nations  bodies 
in  developing  initiatives  that  are  responsive  to  the 
efforts  of  Member  States.  Our  priorities  are  targeted 
counter-engagement 
the 
disengagement of defectors, strengthening intelligence 
and 
law  enforcement,  and  deploying  whole-of-
Government  approaches  and  socioeconomic  tools  in 
line with a global strategy.
in  radicalization  clusters, 
My  delegation  supports  the  Secretary-General’s 
commitment to the reform agenda of the United Nations. 
The  United  Nations  must  embrace  reforms  in  order 
to  adjust  to  the  global  landscape  of  the  twenty-first 
century and be more accommodative, more democratic 
and more effective in order to be fit for purpose for our 
modern  world.  Of  particular  concern  to  Africa  is  the 
fact that the Security Council continues to be dominated 
by  a  small  club  of  countries,  which  totally  excludes 
the rest of us. That exclusion continues to undermine 
the legitimacy and efficiency of the Security Council, 
while  its  operations,  on  the  other  hand,  raise  issues 
of  accountability  and  transparency.  Therefore,  it  is 
imperative that the United Nations embrace reforms on 
all of the five core areas that have been identified. We 
call for Africa’s representation in both the permanent 
and non-permanent categories of the Security Council, 
as stated in the African Common Position.
Early in September, we held a high-level meeting to 
discuss best practices in relation to implementation of the 
New Urban Agenda, as well as measures to enhance the 
effectiveness,  efficiency,  accountability  and  financial 
capability  of  the  United  Nations  Human  Settlements 
Programme (UN-HABITAT). At the meeting, Member 
States  committed  to  engaging  in  the  UN-HABITAT 
process.  They  called  for  better  coordination  of  urban 
matters across the entire United Nations system and for 
an urban assembly to replace the 58-member Governing 
Council  at  its  headquarters  in  Nairobi.  We  welcome 
17-29716
21/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
the  confidence  that  the  membership  has  expressed  in 
our country.
It is no secret that UN-HABITAT is among the least-
funded agencies of the United Nations. The Assembly 
needs  an  adequate  budget  in  order  to  enable  it  to 
effectively carry out its mandate. Kenya looks forward 
to engaging constructively in the follow-up discussions 
in the Second Committee during the current session of 
the General Assembly.
Kenya  has  played  a  prominent  role  in  the  search 
for peace and security in various countries, especially 
in Somalia and South Sudan. Thanks to our collective 
efforts  as  an  international  community,  tremendous 
progress  has  been  made  in  Somalia.  In  particular, 
the  credible  elections  that  took  place  last  year  and 
the  formation  of  a  broad-based  Government  marked 
a  watershed  moment  that  laid  the  foundation  for  a 
stable,  democratic  transition  in  Somalia.  In  order  to 
consolidate the gains already made and prevent a relapse 
into  conflict,  we  support  the  strengthening  of  the 
African  Union  Military  Observer  Mission  in  Somalia 
(AMISOM).  We  also  welcome  Security  Council 
resolution 2372 (2017), which extends AMISOM with 
revised core tasks.
We urge the United Nations to give greater support to 
the Mission, particularly in terms of sustained funding, 
in order to enable it to deal with major security threats 
ahead of the envisaged troop drawdown. Furthermore, 
we strongly believe that support of the reconstruction 
process, including enabling the Government to provide 
basic  services,  will  improve  confidence  and  help 
prevent conflict in Somalia in the future.
Meanwhile,  the  humanitarian  situation  in  South 
Sudan remains of concern and needs urgent attention. 
We urge the international community to provide much-
needed  resources  in  order  to  help  save  lives  that  are 
being ravaged by famine. It is our expectation that the 
Government of South Sudan will ensure the protection 
of  civilians  and  humanitarian  workers.  We  also  call 
on the international community to support the efforts 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development 
revitalization process to re-energize the peace process 
by bringing together all parties to the conflict.
We also remain concerned about the situations in 
Libya,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Syria  and  Iraq. 
We  urge  the  international  community  to  continue 
working  diligently  to  ease  the  challenges  that  those 
sisterly nations face. In the same vein, we support the 
Secretary-General’s continued efforts to find a lasting 
solution  for  the  Palestinian  people,  based  on  a  two-
State solution.
Since  the  1960s,  Kenya  has  hosted  huge  numbers 
of  refugees  from  neighbouring  countries.  We  have 
been generous hosts, but lately the presence of refugees 
has  brought  attendant  challenges.  Those  challenges 
include  smuggling,  banditry,  human  trafficking  and 
the  infiltration  of  refugee  camps  by  terrorists.  In  the 
light  of  those  challenges,  the  Kenyan  Government, 
together  with  the  Somali  Federal  Government  and 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
(UNHCR), and without abdicating its responsibility for 
refugees, signed a tripartite agreement on the voluntary 
repatriation of refugees in 2013. Although it has been 
moving slowly, the repatriation process has since been 
conducted in conformity with international obligations. 
We  expect  the  international  community  to  join  hands 
with  us  in  supporting  the  initiative,  as  it  will  enable 
refugees to rebuild their lives and regain their human 
dignity, away from the squalor of refugee camps.
Kenya  welcomes 
the  President’s  decision 
to 
convene a high-level meeting of the General Assembly 
on  the  appraisal  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan 
of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  As 
a  country,  we  enacted  the  Counter  Trafficking  in 
Persons  Act  in  2010,  which  domesticated  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime, including its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and 
Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and 
Children. That high-level meeting will provide a much-
needed,  integrated  global  platform  to  increase  public 
awareness, share good practices and address loopholes 
that  aid  slavery  and  trafficking,  including  ensuring 
effective  border  management,  capacity-building  for 
immigration  officers  and  the  efficient  monitoring  of 
local and international employment agencies.
Kenya  welcomes  the  historic  adoption  on  7  July 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
Although  nuclear-weapon  States  are  absent, 
the 
overwhelming majority of Member States support the 
Treaty. That demonstrates our concerns about the danger 
that the use of such weapons poses to humankind, about 
which we were all reminded by the unfortunate nuclear 
detonation that took place on 3 September. The adoption 
of the Treaty gives us renewed hope that it is possible, if 
we work together, to rid the world of nuclear weapons.
22/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
Finally, Kenya is a firm believer in multilateralism. 
We  acknowledge  the  remarkable  role  that  the  United 
Nations  has  played  in  sustaining  peace  in  our  world 
and in providing a global platform for cooperation and 
solidarity  among  nations.  We  know  that  the  United 
Nations can do better. We believe that the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  the  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development have given the United Nations a blueprint 
for creating greater peace in our world and for making 
globalization  and  development  fair  and  equitable  for 
all. That is the future that we want for ourselves and for 
future generations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Gudlaugur Thór Thórdarson, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Iceland.
Mr. Thórdarson (Iceland): We live in a world of 
opportunity. Never have we had such potential to end 
poverty,  hunger  and  violations  of  human  rights,  and 
focus on people striving for a decent life. We can either 
succeed or we can fail. It is a choice; it is a decision. 
It is our responsibility and it is our task. This task is 
not just about numbers or statistics, but real-life people. 
There is purpose and worth to each and every life. Let 
us not forget.
Our task is not easy. But the most important things 
in life are never easy. The right path is always difficult, 
and we definitely face difficulties. The consequences of 
climate change, bad governance, terrorism and conflict 
have  made  our  world  seem  more  dangerous,  less 
predictable and more chaotic, as our Secretary-General 
has put it. It is our common responsibility to safeguard 
the progress we have made since the establishment of 
this  institution  and  to  make  good  on  our  promises  of 
prosperity for all.
The  world’s  economic  and  social  progress  has,  in 
large part, been driven by science and rational action, 
based on evidence. We must hold firm to that approach. 
Only policy, grounded in facts and evidence, can help 
us deal with such common threats as climate change and 
create a world that truly reflects our values. The Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development provide the blueprints for 
our success. Now we must deliver. Droughts, sea-level 
rise,  ocean  acidification  and  other  consequences  of 
climate change have wide-ranging implications for all 
our communities. Climate change is nowhere as visible 
as in the Arctic, with far-reaching consequences in the 
other parts of the world. The melting of the polar ice in 
the North causes higher sea levels in the South. What 
happens  in  the  Arctic  does  not  stay  in  the  Arctic.  In 
fulfilling our Paris Agreement obligations, we aim to 
reduce  emissions  by  40  per  cent  by  2030  collectively 
with  our  European  countries. 
remains 
committed to that goal.
Iceland 
Since  the  establishment  of  this  institution,  a 
rule-based international order has been the foundation 
for peace and prosperity. The assault on the rule of law 
by certain Governments undermines the stability of the 
international system. We condemn in the strongest terms 
the illegal actions of North Korean leaders and call on 
them to accept generous offers to return to the negotiating 
table.  During  the  past  weeks,  we  have  at  last  seen  a 
united  Security  Council  act  firmly  but  constructively 
to push for dialogue and confidence-building measures, 
while  staying  firm  on  strengthening  sanctions  in  the 
face of continued provocation.
international  and  humanitarian 
The  use  of  chemical  weapons  by  the  Syrian 
Government  against  its  own  people  was  a  blatant 
violation  of 
laws 
and  demanded  a  firm  response  by  the  international 
community.  Complex  internal  conflicts  have  led  to 
displacement  and  suffering  on  a  massive  scale,  with 
famine  looming  in  many  areas,  including  Yemen. 
The issue of Western Sahara remains unresolved with 
tensions  rising.  The  disregard  for  the  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine  is  another  serious 
assault on the international rule-based order.
The Security Council bears primary responsibility 
for maintaining international peace and security. Along 
with  several  other  countries,  Iceland  has  encouraged 
the Security Council to include long-term perspectives 
in  its  mission  mandates  to  lay  the  foundations  for 
lasting peace.
The modern era has also seen the rise of non-State 
actors  —  something  our  system  did  not  plan  for. 
Terrorists have sought to undermine trust and tolerance 
within  and  among  our  communities.  Alongside 
improvements  of  the  United  Nations  anti-terrorism 
mechanism,  we  must  identify  the  drivers  of  violent 
extremism and terrorism. At the heart of conflict and 
violent extremism lies a failure of development. That is 
where the 2030 Agenda must play a vital role.
The  2030  Agenda 
remarkable 
achievement. 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  as  human  rights,  peace 
and  development  are  inseparable  and  essential  to 
is  grounded 
It 
is 
indeed  a 
in 
17-29716
23/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
the  successful  implementation  of  the  Agenda.  I  take 
very  seriously  the  Secretary-General’s  warning  that 
disregard  for  human  rights  is  a  disease,  and  it  is  a 
disease that is spreading — north, south, east and west.
The violation of freedom of expression, of rights to 
free assembly, of the fundamental rights of women — all 
undermine  the  2030  Agenda.  Extrajudicial  killings, 
repression of minorities and the denial of the right to 
legitimate opposition set back sustainable development, 
sometimes by generations. Here I would like to express 
deep concern at the completely unacceptable situation 
of the Rohingya population in Myanmar.
Iceland  knows  first-hand  the  massive  potential 
that lies in gender equality. With UN-Women as a key 
partner,  Iceland  is  a  dedicated  proponent  of  women’s 
human  rights.  We  actively  work  to  engage  men  in 
the  fight  for  gender  equality  and,  indeed,  our  Prime 
Minister is a HeForShe IMPACT Champion. We support 
the United Nations Population Fund and the SheDecides 
initiative for sexual and reproductive health and rights, 
and continue to promote women’s participation in the 
peace and security agenda.
I commend the Secretary-General for his commitment 
to  gender  equality  within  the  United  Nations  and 
his  determination  in  addressing  the  issue  of  sexual 
exploitation  and  abuse  by  peacekeepers  and  United 
Nations staff — a betrayal of the civilians under their 
care and of the values of the United Nations.
At the beginning of the twentieth century, Iceland 
was  one  the  poorest  countries  in  western  Europe. 
Now,  we  are  one  of  the  richest.  Why?  The  answer  to 
that question is the key to our approach to the task at 
hand of delivering for the people of this world who are 
striving for a decent life, and making sure that everyone 
can  benefit  from  this  world  of  ours  —  the  world  of 
opportunities.  Iceland’s  path  from  rags  to  riches  is  a 
textbook example of the power of free trade. We gained 
access to large foreign markets where we could sell our 
products, and by doing so we changed our fortunes.
Every  year,  we  gather  here  in  the  capital  of  free 
trade and talk about the importance of ending poverty 
in  the  world.  We  can  talk  the  talk,  but  can  we  really 
walk  the  walk?  We  can  really  do  something  about 
this. We can open our markets. We can let the poorer 
countries trade freely with our consumers. Let us trade, 
and let us keep in mind that free trade is not only the 
exchange of goods or services for money. Free trade is 
forming relationships. Free trade is people interacting, 
travelling and understanding each other, regardless of 
colour or religion. Free trade is the most powerful tool 
to establish and maintain peace.
While  the  markets  of  the  richest  countries  in  the 
world remain closed to the poorest countries, it is truly 
our  obligation  to  provide  development  assistance.  A 
large share of Iceland’s bilateral assistance goes to the 
least developed countries, mainly in sub-Saharan Africa. 
We focus on our areas of expertise, such as energy and 
fisheries, while at the same time ensuring a horizontal 
emphasis on human rights and gender equality.
To  share  our  knowledge  and  experience,  Iceland 
hosts  United  Nations  University  (UNU)  programmes 
on fisheries management, geothermal energy and land 
restoration, in addition to its UNU gender programme. 
Through projects and partnerships with the International 
Renewable  Energy  Agency,  Sustainable  Energy  for 
All  and  the  World  Bank,  Iceland  works  actively  to 
increase  the  utilization  of  sustainable  geothermal 
energy. We also support the work of the United Nations 
Convention  to  Combat  Desertification  and  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
to increase food security and mitigate climate change 
through land restoration.
Continuing  a  tradition  of  leadership  in  oceans 
affairs,  Iceland  actively  contributed  to  the  United 
Nations  Ocean  Conference  earlier  this  year.  Our 
many commitments include reducing marine litter and 
plastics in the ocean, an issue on which Governments, 
businesses  and  individuals  must  cooperate.  Allow  me 
to  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  appointment  of 
Mr. Peter Thomson as his Special Envoy for the Ocean. 
We look forward to working with Mr. Thomson.
Unlocking  the  transformative  potential  of  people 
and  the  private  sector  is  key  to  success.  In  financing 
for  development,  we  must  be  clear  that  development 
cooperation, while vital, is only a small part of what is 
needed.  Good  governance,  strong  institutions,  human 
rights and equal opportunities are essential to inclusive 
economic  progress,  which  eventually  depends  on  the 
political  will  of  leaders.  Creating  an  environment  in 
which  doing  business  is  easy  and  investment  makes 
sense is key to growth.
Iceland  strongly  believes 
the  potential  of 
globalization  and  international  trade  as  an  engine  for 
economic  growth  and  poverty  reduction.  We  must 
continue  to  promote  a  universal,  rules-based,  fair, 
multilateral  trading  system  under  the  World  Trade 
in 
24/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
Organization. At the same time, we must be aware of 
the  measures  necessary  to  enable  the  least  developed 
countries  to  participate  on  fair  terms.  If  we  are  to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, this is not 
the time to erect trade barriers.
The dire situation of the 65 million people driven 
from  their  homes  by  conflict,  economic  hardship  and 
climate  change  urgently  requires  a  solution.  How  we, 
as an international community, address migration will 
define  us  for  future  generations.  The  forthcoming 
process  towards  global  compacts  for  refugees  and 
for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  will  give  us 
the  opportunity  to  establish  new  and  comprehensive 
approaches to that current challenge. Those approaches 
must  be  grounded  in  humanitarian  law  and  respect 
for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all 
migrants, especially children. As host communities, we 
should not forget the positive contribution that migrants 
can make to growth and sustainable development.
Iceland has received an ever-increasing number of 
refugees, in addition to providing generous assistance 
to  United  Nations  agencies  working  in  the  countries 
that neighbour Syria. We will continue to do our part. 
Our forefathers, scarred by the Second World War and 
economic  depression,  had  the  foresight  to  set  up  the 
United Nations and the Bretton Woods Institutions.
Just  as  this  great  building  was  renovated  so 
successfully  a  few  years  ago,  so  too  must  the  United 
Nations to be made fit for purpose in the modern era. 
We strongly support the work of the Secretary-General 
in  management  reform,  development  reform  and  his 
sustaining peace agenda.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Margot  Wallström,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of Sweden.
(Sweden): 
In  1954, 
Ms.  Wallström 
former 
Secretary-General  Dag  Hammarskjöld  stated  that  the 
United Nations was not created to bring us to heaven, 
but to save us from hell. The need for a United Nations 
that seeks to save us from humankind’s worst impulses 
remains.  However,  in  these  days  of  uncertainty,  we 
must also learn from and build on what is positive in 
our world and the United Nations.
In  his 
important  address  on  Tuesday 
(see 
A/72/PV.3), our Secretary-General laid out the threats 
and challenges that we face and how we can overcome 
them.  Delivering  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  future 
will  depend  on  collective  action.  This  is  the  moment 
for  multilateralism,  not  unilateralism.  We  must  grasp 
it  or  risk  the  consequences.  The  United  Nations  is  at 
the centre of that effort. It is a tailor-made space for the 
world  to  find  solutions  to  the  common  challenges  of 
our time. Despite the sometimes justified criticisms, it 
is clear that we still believe in the power of the United 
Nations. If we did not, Presidents, Prime Ministers and 
business  and  civil-society  leaders  would  not  be  here 
this  week.  I  believe  that  we  all  recognize  that,  in  the 
face  of  global  challenges,  going  it  alone  is  no  longer 
an option.
The  United  Nations,  founded  to  save  succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  to  promote 
better standards of life in larger freedom, has prevented 
a repetition of the catastrophic wars that preceded its 
founding.  Extreme  poverty  has  fallen  to  a  historic 
low.  Life  expectancy  continues  to  climb.  Millions 
of  people  are  reached  every  year  with  life-saving 
humanitarian assistance.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the sustaining 
peace agenda are powerful illustrations of what we can 
achieve  together.  Those  agreements  are  the  strategies 
for our common future. We must now ensure that the 
Organization has the structure and the tools needed to 
support  countries  to  deliver  them.  The  broad  support 
for  the  Secretary-General’s  reform  agenda  illustrates 
the  importance  that  we  attach  to  an  effective  United 
Nations, its role at the centre of multilateralism and as a 
platform for the delivery of our common commitments. 
The  scope  of  the  reforms  being  proposed  by  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  Deputy  Secretary-General 
reveals the complex tasks at hand.
The  peace  and  security  architecture  must  better 
prevent conflicts and sustain peace. The United Nations 
development  system  must  be  radically  reoriented  to 
achieve  the  2030  Agenda.  Moreover,  to  deliver  those 
changes, modern management skills and systems will 
be essential. More importantly, we must recognize that 
those reforms cannot be pursued in isolation from one 
another. People do not experience life in pieces — their 
needs  must  be  central.  Peace  and  security,  economic 
and  social  development  and 
the  protection  and 
promotion  of  human  rights  are  mutually  reinforcing. 
As a response, all pillars of the United Nations system 
and our own bilateral efforts must also be interlinked 
and  mutually  reinforcing.  That  calls  for  new  ways  of 
working and thinking.
17-29716
25/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
Sweden fully subscribes to the principles for reform 
that were articulated by the Secretary-General: a country-
level  and  people-centred  perspective,  gender  parity, 
decentralized 
responsibility  and  decision-making, 
and  reformed  budget  procedures.  Secretary-General 
Guterres  and  Deputy  Secretary-General  Mohammed 
have our full support in their efforts.
On  our  part,  we,  as  Member  States,  have  a 
responsibility to act coherently, avoid micromanagement 
and  ensure  long-term,  stable  and  adequate  financing. 
More flexible funding is necessary. We firmly believe 
in  core  and  unearmarked  funding.  We  cannot  allow 
ourselves  to  cherry  pick  to  accommodate  domestic 
interests;  that  will  not  give  the  Organization  the 
stability it needs.
I  am  proud  to  say  that  Sweden  will  increase  its 
development  cooperation  budget  by  approximately 
$350  million  in  2018,  bringing  our  budget  to  its 
highest-ever  level  and  delivering  on  our  commitment 
to devote 1 per cent of gross national income to official 
development assistance. In addition to words, we will 
support the Secretary-General’s efforts with kronor by 
making available additional flexible funding for reform.
In the immediate term, faced with record levels of 
humanitarian  need,  the  humanitarian  system  requires 
urgent funding to save lives and end suffering. In the 
longer  term,  investing  in  the  2030  Agenda  and  the 
sustaining peace agenda will build resilience.
Let me focus now on three particular areas in the 
remainder of my remarks.
First, nine months ago, Sweden joined the Security 
Council.  As  the  General  Assembly  elected  us  to  the 
Council,  it  is  only  proper  that  I  report  back  to  its 
members on what we have been doing on their behalf. 
Our approach to the Council is simple. While we each 
come  with  our  own  national  perspective  and  will 
not  always  agree,  as  Council  members  we  are  bound 
together by a responsibility to the Charter of the United 
Nations and the world.
To  that  end,  Sweden  works  with  all  members 
to  deliver  meaningful  outcomes  from  the  Council’s 
discussions.  We  work  closely  with  the  other  elected 
members,  which  represent  the  broader  membership 
and bring important perspectives. We are also talking 
with  many  members  of  the  Assembly  as  part  of  our 
commitment to speaking with countries on the Council’s 
agenda, not only about them.
Delivering real outcomes for those who need them is 
a responsibility that goes beyond our national interests. 
Needs are growing. The number of major conflicts is 
on the rise. However, as the Secretary-General has said, 
neither  war  nor  peace  is  inevitable;  they  result  from 
the  choices  that  we  make.  Many  of  the  conflicts  on 
the Council’s agenda have come about not because we 
failed to see them coming — the signs were there — but 
because we failed to respond early or quickly enough.
Moreover,  prevention  means  not  only  choosing 
to  heed  the  warnings  when  they  come,  but  investing 
in  peaceful  societies  to  avoid  the  causes  of  conflicts 
emerging  in  the  first  place.  As  leaders  within  our 
communities and as national leaders, we must choose 
peace,  invest  in  peace  and  deliver  peace.  The  United 
Nations system must be configured to support us.
Sweden  has  made  conflict  prevention  a  central 
pillar of our Council membership. We have underscored 
the  need  for  the  Council  to  recognize  the  primacy 
of  politics  in  peacekeeping  mandates  and  the  need 
for  long-term  political  strategies  that  aim  to  prevent 
conflict and sustain peace by addressing root causes. I 
believe we are making progress. That is evidenced by 
the  Council’s  support  for  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the 
crisis in the Gambia, for the peace process in Colombia 
and  for  the  transitions  in  Liberia  and  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
as  well  as  its  cooperation  with  the  African  Union  to 
bring  stability  to  Somalia.  As  Chair  of  the  Council’s 
Working  Group  on  Children  and  Armed  Conflict, 
Sweden  has  sought  to  strengthen  the  protection  of 
children  in  conflict  zones.  The  protection  of  children 
today prevents conflicts tomorrow.
Nonetheless, we have to do more. The situation in 
Myanmar is a haunting example of where the root causes 
of conflict went unresolved, with tragic consequences. 
It  is  now  urgent  that  the  violence  end  and  that  the 
population  be  protected,  human  rights  respected  and 
a  dignified  return  allowed.  Humanitarian  access  is 
essential.  Sweden  supports 
the  recommendations 
of  the  Advisory  Commission  on  Rakhine  State.  We 
urge  the  Myanmar  Government  to  implement  those 
recommendations without delay.
In  Syria,  prevention  also  failed.  The  price  paid 
by the country and its citizens has been unimaginable 
and  horrific.  Sweden  will  continue  to  work  through 
the  Council  for  nationwide  humanitarian  access  and 
a political solution, which is the only option for long-
term peace and a better future for Syria.
26/28 
17-29716
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.16
In  South  Sudan,  the  civilian  population  has  also 
borne  the  brunt  of  a  nearly  four-year,  devastating 
conflict.  I  welcome  the  recent  initiatives  of  South 
Sudan’s  neighbours.  I  urge  the  Government  and  all 
other parties to increase humanitarian access, lay down 
their arms and engage in a meaningful process to end 
the conflict.
We  continue  our  long-standing  engagement  in 
trying  to  advance  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  As 
the Secretary-General said during his recent visit to the 
region, the two-State solution is the only way forward. 
Only a negotiated settlement between the parties and an 
end to the 50 years of occupation can achieve the goal 
of Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace and 
security. We need to resolve the conflict once and for 
all. Doing so will have implications for peace that go 
beyond the Holy Land and the Middle East itself.
Perhaps the greatest threat to international peace and 
security is the unacceptable and repeated provocations 
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in pursuit 
of  a  nuclear-weapons  programme.  We  call  upon  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to cease further 
testing, fulfil its international obligations and turn to a 
path of sincere dialogue on denuclearization. All States 
must  implement  the  measures  that  have  been  decided 
upon by a united Security Council. Sanctions must be 
combined  with  political  efforts  to  pave  the  way  for  a 
peaceful solution. We welcome the Secretary-General’s 
pledge to make his good offices available to that end.
Lasting peace requires the involvement of the entire 
population, meaning that the full, equal and effective 
participation  of  women  must  be  hardwired  into  all  of 
our  efforts  towards  sustaining  peace.  That  brings  me 
to my second point — women and peace and security.
As  a  representative  of  the  world’s  first  feminist 
Government,  that  issue  is  close  to  my  heart.  From 
speaking  with  many  members  of  the  Assembly,  I 
realize that I am far from alone in my strong conviction 
that women’s participation in peace and security efforts 
is  essential  for  sustainable  peace.  Ensuring  women’s 
participation must be at the centre of the United Nations 
reform efforts.
Sweden is working tirelessly to put the women and 
peace and security agenda into action in all aspects of 
the  Security  Council’s  work,  from  including  gender 
reporting  in  mission  mandates,  to  adding  listing 
criteria  for  sexual  and  gender-based  violence  in 
sanctions  regimes.  Sweden’s  feminist  foreign  policy 
is  an  agenda  for  change  that  is  aimed  at  increasing 
rights, representation and resources for all women and 
girls,  based  on  the  reality  of  their  lives.  We  urge  all 
countries to form their own feminist policy and ensure 
that  everyone  —  women,  men,  boys  and  girls  —  is 
treated equally.
My  third  and  last  point  regards  our  common 
responsibility  for  global  development.  The  2030 
Agenda provides the pathways to achieve the peaceful, 
sustainable  and  equitable  societies  we  want.  All 
countries — rich and poor — share the responsibility of 
turning that promise into a reality for millions of people 
around the world. It will not be done by Governments 
alone. All stakeholders from across society have a part 
to play. Ensuring that the United Nations development 
system  is  transformed  to  support  those  efforts  will 
be critical.
Measuring  our  progress  against  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  will  be  essential,  both 
for  decision-making  and  accountability.  Sweden 
has  developed  a  set  of  national  goals,  linked  to  the 
SDGs  and  our  national  budget,  which  we  are  using 
to  measure  the  development  of  our  society.  As  we 
all  know,  the  strength  of  the  2030  Agenda  is  in  the 
inherent interlinkages between all 17 Goals. Each Goal 
is equally important and interdependent. Nonetheless, I 
would like to highlight two of those Goals.
First, I will address the Goal of reducing inequality. 
Globalization  has  opened  the  world,  strengthened 
economic  growth  and  lifted  hundreds  of  millions  out 
of  poverty.  However,  we  have  failed  to  allocate  the 
benefits of globalization equally. We must do better. As 
part of our contribution, in 2016 Sweden, together with 
an  initial  core  group  of  States,  businesses  and  trade 
unions, launched the Global Deal for Decent Work and 
Inclusive  Growth.  The  Global  Deal  is  a  partnership 
developed with the International Labour Organization 
and  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development, with a focus on enhanced social dialogue 
and  sound  industrial  relations,  which  are  crucial  to 
reducing inequality.
The  second  Goal  I  would  like  to  mention  is 
that  of  healthy  oceans  and  seas.  Oceans  connect  us 
all.  Without  water,  there  is  no  life.  Therefore,  the 
deteriorating condition of our oceans must ring alarm 
bells  for  us  all.  Sweden  was  pleased  to  co-host,  with 
Fiji, the Ocean Conference that took place in June. The 
multi-stakeholder participation and all the commitments 
17-29716
27/28
A/72/PV.16 
22/09/2017
made  highlighted  the  fact  that  saving  the  oceans  will 
require all sectors of society to play their part, and that 
they are ready to do so.
The  oceans  are  also  affected  by  and,  in  return, 
affect  our  climate.  We  are  already  seeing 
the 
devastating impact of extreme weather events. Climate 
change  will  increase  the  frequency  and  intensity  of 
such events. Left unchecked, climate change will wash 
away  development  gains  and  increase  instability  and 
conflict. To the few who still doubt the overwhelming 
evidence  that  climate  change  is  real,  I  ask:  are  they 
really  willing  to  take  the  chance?  Especially  when 
we see that new technologies offer the opportunity to 
simultaneously reduce emissions and grow economies. 
Sweden is already proving that is possible and has set a 
goal of zero net greenhouse emissions by 2045.
All  countries  must  join  the  effort  to  achieve  the 
decisive  transformations  needed  to  reduce  emissions 
and  prevent  the  worst  effects  of  climate  change 
from  happening.  With  160  States  parties  to  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  so  far,  the  global 
commitment remains strong.
In  his  address  on  Tuesday,  the  Secretary-General 
told us that we must act as one, because only together, 
as  united  nations,  can  we  fulfil  the  promise  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  advance  human 
dignity for all. He is right. The expression “we are all 
in this together” has perhaps never been so apt. As our 
world  becomes  more  integrated,  so  do  the  challenges 
and  threats  we  face.  We  cannot  go  it  alone;  we  must 
stand together. Multilateralism is the only path to peace 
and prosperity.
The meeting rose at 3.05 p.m.
28/28 
17-29716
