United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
7th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 September 2017, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.7
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.
Expression of sympathy in connection with the 
earthquakes in Mexico
The  President:  Before  we  begin  this  morning’s 
meeting,  I  wish  to  express,  on  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, our sincere condolences to the Government 
and people of Mexico in the light of the tragic earthquake 
that rocked Mexico City yesterday. We regret the loss of 
life and stand with Mexico at this time of grief.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 
Mr. Luis Videgaray Caso, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the United States of Mexico.
Mr. Videgaray Caso (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of 
the  Government  and  the  people  of  Mexico,  to  thank 
the  Assembly  from  the  bottom  of  our  hearts  for  the 
countless  expressions  of  international  solidarity  from 
our fellow members of the United Nations.
Yesterday  a  7.1  magnitude  earthquake  struck 
Mexico  City  and  various  areas  in  the  centre  of  the 
country.  The  death  toll  currently  stands  at  219,  with 
hundreds injured and still more whose whereabouts are 
unknown.  Our  current  priority  is  carrying  out  rescue 
work  and  caring  for  the  injured.  It  has  been  a  harsh 
blow to Mexico, but we will be able to recover, thanks 
primarily to the extraordinary solidarity and generosity 
of our people, who have taken to the streets and to the 
more  than  50  areas  affected  by  the  quake,  where  we 
need everyone’s help.
I  particularly  wish  to  thank  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres,  who  called  me  personally,  and  the 
Secretariat, which has been in contact with us from the 
outset,  providing  us  with  advice,  support  and  help  in 
identifying  the  specific  aid  we  need.  Special  thanks 
also  go  to  the  United  Nations  Disaster  Assessment 
and Coordination system for helping us to identify the 
countries that have the specialized teams and equipment 
we need for rescue operations. We have contacted them 
and they are already sending assistance. Support for the 
rescue  efforts  is  currently  under  way  in  Mexico  City. 
I  thank  the  President  and  all  of  the  countries  that  are 
generously supporting Mexico at this very difficult time.
Address by Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the 
Republic of Finland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Finland.
into 
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Finland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the Republic 
of Finland, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Niinistö:  Our  thoughts  today  are  with 
the people of Mexico and the Caribbean.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29389 (E)
*1729389*
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
I congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside 
over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second 
session.  Finland  fully  supports  your  six  priorities 
and  we  appreciate  the  focus  on  people  as  your 
mandate’s centrepiece.
like 
I  would  also 
to  extend  my  heartfelt 
congratulations to Secretary-General António Guterres. 
His  determination  to  reform  the  United  Nations  is 
laudable. Transparency, accountability, efficiency and 
gender balance should be the guiding principles of the 
United  Nations  system.  I  also  welcome  his  focus  on 
conflict prevention, which, when successful, saves lives 
and financial resources. Finland continues to advocate 
the use of mediation in conflict resolution, which can 
prevent conflicts and decrease human suffering. Those 
who are marginalized must be given a voice in peace 
processes.  Women,  children  and  young  people  often 
pay  the  highest  price  in  conflicts,  but  they  can  also 
help to find a way out of crises. Finland has helped to 
establish  a  Nordic  network  of  women  mediators  that 
aims  to  sustain  peace  through  women’s  inclusive  and 
meaningful  participation  in  every  phase  of  a  peace 
process.
Peacekeeping  and  special  political  missions  are 
at  the  core  of  the  United  Nations  mandate.  With 
experience  of  United  Nations  operations  since  1956, 
Finland  supports  the  Secretary-General  in  his  efforts 
to  reform  and  make  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
more effective. Following the pledge we made in 2015, 
Finland  has  significantly  increased  its  participation 
in  United  Nations  police  missions.  Finnish  police 
officers,  including  a  specialized  team  for  sexual  and 
gender-based  violence,  are  now  deployed  in  seven 
United Nations peacekeeping operations. It is my firm 
view that no United Nations peacekeeper or any other 
United  Nations  personnel  should  be  associated  with 
misconduct in any shape or form. There must be zero 
tolerance  of  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse,  and  the 
Secretary-General’s initiative for a circle of leadership 
is timely and welcome.
In  wars,  there  are  no  winners,  and  yet  conflicts 
continue.  In  2016,  157,000  lives  were  lost  in  violent 
conflicts globally. There are almost 68 million refugees 
in  the  world  today.  The  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East, 
Africa and eastern Ukraine are all examples of untold 
human  suffering,  and  they  are  not  the  only  ones. 
The  international  community  has  not  succeeded  in 
maintaining peace and security.
The  grave  situation  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  is  an  urgent  concern.  The  North 
Korean nuclear-weapon programme is a threat to global 
peace  and  must  be  stopped.  The  Security  Council’s 
cooperation on North Korea has been successful, and 
it is important to ensure that unity can prevail. At the 
same time, North Korea has continued its provocations, 
and  such  behaviour  cannot  be  tolerated.  Finland,  as 
part of the European Union, stands firmly behind the 
sanctions and urges everyone to do the same. We will 
be  able  to  find  a  solution  only  through  negotiations, 
and  the  North  Korean  Government  must  participate 
without preconditions.
Nuclear  weapons  represent  a  severe  threat  to 
humankind.  As  long  as  they  exist  there  is  a  risk  of  a 
catastrophe.  The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  remains  the  cornerstone  of  global 
non-proliferation  and 
the  foundation  for  nuclear 
disarmament. Finland’s approach to the issue is result-
oriented and pragmatic. It is crucial to ensure that the 
countries possessing nuclear weapons are on board for 
any  negotiations.  I  call  on  all  nuclear-weapon  States 
and countries possessing such weapons to take concrete 
action  on  disarmament  as  soon  as  possible.  It  is  also 
important  to  ensure  that  the  nuclear  deal  on  Iran  is 
honoured by all parties, and I welcome the recent talks 
on strategic stability between the United States and the 
Russian Federation. We hope that they will re-start the 
arms-control talks in Europe and globally.
We must also pay closer attention to other threats, 
of which I would like to focus on two examples.
First, countering terrorism and preventing violent 
extremism  is  a  shared  priority.  As  a  global  body,  the 
United  Nations  is  well  placed  to  promote  the  fight 
against  terrorism.  I  look  forward  to  the  leadership  of 
the  new  United  Nations  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism 
in  that  area.  Secondly,  we  must  take  health  security 
more seriously. Diseases travel across borders rapidly 
and synthetic biology is an emerging threat. We need 
better  prevention  and  national  preparedness,  and  a 
global, multi-partner collaboration. The Global Health 
Security Agenda is an important forum in this area, and 
Finland  and  Australia  are  co-chairing  an  alliance  in 
support of health-security capacity-building. We must 
take action before the next pandemic arrives.
Population  dynamics  are  of  great  importance. 
Although  the  most  rapid  phase  of  global  population 
growth is receding, in many places populations are still 
2/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
growing. That is particularly the case in some African 
countries,  where  the  potential  exists  for  a  four-fold 
increase by the end of the century. Growing populations 
often  result  in  rapid  urbanization.  Cities  offer  people 
many possibilities, and urbanization’s positive potential 
is  huge.  But  if  it  is  mismanaged  it  can  also  increase 
rootlessness, hopelessness and even radicalization. One 
antidote is to ensure that all individuals can reach their 
potential.  Economic  opportunities  and  human  rights 
are  vital.  People  must  have  a  positive  stake  in  their 
own  societies.  That  will  require  dedicated  efforts  to 
empower  individuals,  including  ensuring  their  access 
to education and basic services.
Gender equality is a key priority in Finnish foreign 
policy.  As  a  HeForShe  IMPACT  Champion,  I  attach 
great  personal  importance  to  this.  Universal  access 
to sexual and reproductive health and ensuring sexual 
rights  and  comprehensive  sexuality  education  for 
all  are  key  factors  in  sustainable  development.  As  a 
candidate  for  the  UNESCO  Executive  Board,  Finland 
also considers gender equality, high-quality education 
and  fulfilment  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development to be priorities.
Climate  change  binds  the  South  and  the  North 
together.  None  of  us  will  be  spared  its  destructive 
effects.  Besides  the  direct  environmental  impact,  it 
affects  security  and  is  a  cause  of  forced  migration. 
The rapid implementation of the Paris Climate Change 
Agreement is even more urgent than it was a year ago. 
The  Agreement  has  a  clear  goal  —  keeping  rising 
temperatures below 2°C. At the moment we are not on 
that path, and we must speed up our efforts, because the 
window for action is closing. Our transition from fossil 
fuels to renewables and energy efficiency must be much 
faster  than  what  we  are  seeing  right  now.  Everyone’s 
efforts are needed.
The  Arctic  is  at  the  forefront  of  climate  change. 
It is warming twice as fast as the rest of the world. If 
we lose it, we will lose the whole world. We must find 
effective ways to slow down the warming of the Arctic. 
One of those is reducing emissions of black carbon and 
methane  and  their  impact  on  the  Arctic.  The  sources 
of  black  carbon  are  well  known  and  solutions  exist. 
What  we  need  is  shared  willingness  and  determined 
steps  to  deal  with  the  issue.  The  emissions  should  be 
reduced in the Arctic area first and foremost, but global 
action  is  also  needed,  as  much  of  the  black  carbon  is 
transported  in  from  outside  the  area.  I  firmly  believe 
that tackling this issue will be a genuine win-win for 
took 
(Indonesia),  Vice-President, 
the whole of humankind. Finland currently chairs the 
Arctic  Council,  and  combating  climate  change  is  one 
of our priorities.
Mr.  Djani 
the Chair.
Finland celebrates 100 years of independence this 
year,  and  the  theme  of  our  centennial  is  “Together”. 
Since our independence began, Finland has supported 
and  respected  the  rules-based  international  order.  In 
our interconnected world, promoting national interests 
also  requires  international  efforts.  I  strongly  believe 
that  global  challenges  and  threats  must  be  addressed 
not by individual action alone but by the international 
community.  Peace  and  security,  human  rights  and 
development belong to all of us. Only together can we 
make this world a better place.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Finland for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Finland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Almazbek Atambaev, President of 
the Kyrgyz Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Mr.  Almazbek  Atambaev,  President  of 
the 
Kyrgyz  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Almazbek  Atambaev, 
President of the Kyrgyz Republic, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly.
President  Atambaev  (spoke  in  Russian):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express my sincere condolences 
to  the  people  of  Mexico  following  the  catastrophic 
earthquake there.
My  ancient  people  have  gone  through  a  long 
and  difficult  journey  of  historical  development  and 
formation.  Centuries  ago,  we  developed  our  own 
written language and established our own multi-ethnic 
State known to history as the Great Kyrgyz Khanate. 
Unfortunately,  subsequent  historical  events  led  to  the 
loss of the Khanate and the destruction of the greater part 
17-29389
3/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
of our people. We used to be referred to as a vanishing 
ethnic group. Accordingly, freedom, independence and 
a  sovereign  State  became  our  national  ideals  and  an 
impassioned  driving  force  for  our  people  throughout 
their historic journey. That journey culminated in 1991 
in our achievement of sovereignty.
However,  our  struggle  for  freedom,  democracy 
and justice continue. I am proud of my freedom-loving 
people,  who  in  the  past  12  years  have  executed  two 
popular  revolutions  against  a  dictatorial  regime  and 
have  shown  that  the  only  true  source  of  power  in  the 
Kyrgyz Republic is the people.
“In  other  countries  similar  events  could  have 
led  to  the  destruction  of  democracy  and  entailed 
significant strife, but the Kyrgyz people underwent 
difficult  circumstances  and  preserved 
their 
democracy, which I hope will serve as a model for 
other countries.”
Those  are  the  words  of  the  Secretary-General,  and 
we are eternally grateful to Mr. António Guterres for 
his balanced assessment of historic events during our 
country’s most recent past.
Like all other countries that have chosen the path 
of  sustainable  development,  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  is 
committed  to  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals. The well-being and prosperity of humankind is 
our main goal. Despite the impact of the global economic 
and  financial  crisis,  the  decline  in  energy  prices  and 
the sanctions-based standoff of the global Powers, the 
gross  domestic  product  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  has 
been steadily growing for the past few years, and our 
currency, the Kyrgyzstan som, is one of the most stable 
of  the  countries  that  make  up  the  Commonwealth  of 
Independent States.
We  are  embarking  on  several  major  projects, 
including  the  improvement  of  our  infrastructure.  We 
have achieved energy independence and a stable energy 
sector. The Kyrgyz Republic, a country that once went 
nowhere, has reinvented itself as a country of transit.
We  are  meeting  all  of  our  commitments  with 
respect to the social fabric of the country. Salaries for 
teachers and doctors are on the rise, and pensions and 
other social benefits are also gradually increasing. Over 
the past five years, the rate of extreme poverty among 
the population has decreased by a factor of 4.5.
We  have  begun  a  meaningful  and  systematic 
campaign  to  rid  the  Government  of  the  scourge  of 
corruption, in particular at the top levels of power. In 
our country, the privileged circles and untouchables of 
six or seven years ago no longer exist.
We are engaged in dialogue today on equal terms 
with  all  our  international  partners.  As  we  build  our 
independence in foreign policy, we base it exclusively 
on  protecting  our  national  interests,  with  special 
priority  for  regional  integration.  The  borders  that  we 
share  with  our  neighbours  are  becoming  gateways  to 
friendship and good neighbourliness.
Our  main  achievements  in  recent  years  have 
been  peace,  consensus  and  stability.  The  country  is 
changing before our eyes. The Kyrgyz Republic is the 
first and only country in the post-Soviet Central Asian 
region  with  a  parliamentary  democracy.  International 
organizations, including the United Nations, recognize 
the Kyrgyz Republic as one of the most free and stable 
States with a strong civil society in Eurasia.
is 
to 
One  achievement  of  particular  note 
the 
introduction of a new electoral model using biometric 
technologies 
identify  voters  and  count  votes 
electronically. We successfully used that system in the 
2015 parliamentary elections and in a referendum held 
last  year.  The  democratic  process  and  openness  that 
characterized  the  electoral  campaign  in  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic  were  validated  by  international  observers 
and, most important, by the country’s political parties’ 
acceptance  of  their  outcome.  Campaigning  is  now  in 
full  gear  for  the  presidential  elections  to  be  held  on 
15 October. In our view, fair and transparent elections 
are  crucial  to  our  country’s  stability,  and  we  are 
determined  to  achieve  that.  I  firmly  believe  that  our 
newly elected Government will continue to advance its 
development as a democratic and open State.
Kyrgyzstan  is  currently  developing  a  long-term 
national strategy for sustainable development through 
2040.  Our  strategic  goals  for  future  sustainable 
development include accelerated economic development 
that  provides  people  with  decent 
jobs;  ensuring 
economic  and  social  well-being;  public  security  and 
a high quality of life; and developing a parliamentary 
democracy and a strong civil society.
One  of  the  key  initiatives  of  that  strategy  is  the 
“Clean  Society”  Taza  Koom  initiative,  designed  to 
develop  and  promote  the  principles  of  electronic 
Government  and  open  society  in  our  country.  During 
his  visit  to  my  country,  Secretary-General  Guterres 
noted  that  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  is  not  only  a  pioneer 
4/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
of  democracy  in  Central  Asia,  it  is  also  becoming  a 
pioneer in building a digital environment as well as a 
digital economy.
Based on all the steps that we have taken, I believe 
that in the near future the Kyrgyz Republic will become 
an  economically  developed,  socially  prosperous  and 
secure  country  with  a  developed  agro-industrial 
complex and manufacturing potential. It will be a secure 
country that will be safe to live and visit in a framework 
of  sustainable  tourism,  supported  by  its  membership 
in  the  Mountain  Partnership,  with  its  unique  natural, 
historical  and  cultural  monuments  along  the  great 
Silk  Road.  It  will  be  a  country  of  healthy,  educated, 
cultured, free and prosperous people governed by a fair 
and accountable leadership.
The  year  2040  will  mark  1,200  years  since  the 
advent  of  the  Kyrgyz  Khanate  in  the  tenth  century, 
when  Kyrgyz  statehood  reached  its  apex.  We  owe  it 
to both our history and our future to reach 2040 as a 
strong, self-reliant and highly developed State.
The consequences of climate change now threaten 
all of us to some degree, and mountainous countries such 
as the Kyrgyz Republic are on the front lines, owing to 
the  complex  ecosystems  associated  with  such  terrain. 
The problems of climate change are having an impact 
on  every  sector  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic’s  economy 
and are causing significant damage from increasingly 
frequent  natural  disasters 
in  mountainous  areas, 
including mudflows, landslides, floods and avalanches.
We are particularly concerned about the accelerated 
melting of Kyrgyz glaciers, which are natural reservoirs 
and a source of fresh water not only for Central Asia 
but  for  the  whole  world.  According  to  forecasts,  by 
2025  the  total  glacier  area  in  the  Kyrgyz  Republic 
could decrease by 30 to 40 percent, which could lead 
to a drop in the water levels of Central Asian rivers. By 
2100 the glaciers of the Kyrgyz Republic could vanish 
altogether.  Our  country  is  therefore  promoting  the 
implementation of joint projects to preserve glaciers in 
mountain ecosystems of upstream countries.
The  basic  essence  of  the  transition  to  sustainable 
development is a matter of the survival of humankind 
and  the  preservation  of  the  biosphere.  Due  to  climate 
change, various rare animals and the biodiversity of our 
mountain ecosystems are threatened with extinction.
  In  particular,  since  the  nineties,  the  global 
population  of  snow  leopards  has  fallen  by  half.  In 
2013,  we  initiated  and  conducted  the  Global  Snow 
Leopard Forum, marking the start of a noble mission: 
to  make  preserving  that  species  and  its  ecosystem  a 
single strategic nature environmental task. Only three 
weeks ago in Bishkek, we held the second International 
Snow Leopard and Ecosystem Forum. One of its main 
outcomes  was  a  proposal  by  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  to 
initiate  a  multi-country  project  at  the  regional  level, 
with  an  emphasis  on  preserving  our  national  and,  no 
less important, global biodiversity.
In  the  modern  world,  mankind  is  forgetting 
its  origins.  In  a  chaotically  fragmented  world  with 
increasing divisions, all nations need unifying factors 
and ideas rather than political ideas that divide peoples 
over  religious  beliefs  or  language.  In  that  regard,  our 
country has come up with a whole range of international 
projects  and  measures.  In  particular,  to  showcase  the 
greatness of the nomadic civilization to the international 
community,  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  has  launched  a 
unique project, the World Nomad Games. The General 
Assembly  provided  international  recognition  for  this 
project  for  its  contribution  to  intercultural  dialogue. 
Next year, we will be hosting the third Nomad Games, 
and we invite everyone to participate in them.
In  July,  we  held  an 
international  forum  on 
“Altai  civilization  and  related  peoples  of  the  Altaic 
language  family”.  Its  main  goal  was  the  development 
and  popularization  of  common  heritage  and  cultural 
exchange between peoples having common Altai roots, 
strengthening  and  expanding  cooperation  among  the 
States belonging to the Altaic language family.
The  international  conference  initiated  by  my 
country  on  the  theme  “Islam  and  the  modern  secular 
State”  is  dedicated  to  the  strengthening  of  peace  and 
the  development  of  intercultural  dialogue.  It  will  be 
held  on  28  and  29  September  in  Bishkek.  We  believe 
it  is  important  to  study  experiences  and  exchange 
information on the interaction of the State and religious 
institutions and civil societies in secular countries.
All  those  initiatives  represent  a  contribution  by 
the Kyrgyz Republic to the preservation of peace and 
stability and the development of cultural diversity and 
tolerance as a counterweight to contemporary threats of 
terrorism and radicalism, and we believe that they will 
have fruitful results.
One  of  the  key  factors  in  good  living  standards 
in  Central  Asia  is  our  mutually  beneficial  use  of 
water  and  energy  resources.  The  Kyrgyz  Republic 
17-29389
5/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
has  consistently  advocated 
the  development  and 
introduction  in  the  region  of  economic  mechanisms 
for water use. The world’s limited water resources will 
sooner  or  later  lead  to  an  understanding  that  water  is 
an  economic  resource  that  requires  reasonable  use.  I 
wish  to  emphasize  in  particular  that  water-use  issues 
in Central Asia can and should be solved only by the 
States of the region through an open and constructive 
dialogue,  taking  into  account  the  interests  and  needs 
of all countries. It is unacceptable for international and 
regional organizations to impose their own approaches 
and ways of developing cooperation in this area on the 
countries of Central Asia.
I would be remiss if I did not mention the problem of 
managing the numerous uranium tailings in the Kyrgyz 
Republic that we inherited from the Soviet Union. They 
pose a threat to the entire region. We all know that a 
number of large uranium-tailing dump sites are located 
in close proximity to rivers and water sources. In the 
event of an accidents at a tailing site, pollution of the 
region’s  rivers  with  highly  toxic  waste  could  lead  to 
large-scale ecological and humanitarian consequences 
and  would  imperil  the  lives  and  health  of  millions  of 
people and even socioeconomic development in every 
Central Asian country.
That is why, in 2012, the Kyrgyz Republic initiated 
a proposal to adopt a special resolution on the matter 
of the uranium legacy in Central Asia, and the General 
Assembly adopted that text as resolution 68/218 in 2013. 
In the past five years we have made significant progress 
in  solving  problems  of  radiation  and  environmental 
safety. Now we see that it is time for a new Assembly 
resolution that takes account of the results that have been 
achieved. Today, here in New York, we will be having 
a special meeting on the issue, initiated by the Kyrgyz 
Republic and others. We believe that the meeting will 
enable us to come up with new programmes and joint 
measures aimed at recultivating uranium-tailing sites.
With  regard  to  matters  of  peace  and  security  and 
the  sustainable  development  of  all  countries  on  the 
planet, I also want to mention the problem of terrorism. 
The international community must step up its efforts to 
fight terrorism, extremism and related problems such as 
illegal drug trafficking, trafficking in humans and arms, 
and money laundering. Unfortunately, the international 
community’s measures have been inadequate and have 
sometimes led to confrontation between States, while it 
is only by joint action and efforts that we can effectively 
counter the threats of terrorism and extremism.
I should not omit to mention the current situation 
in  Myanmar  and  the  plight  of  the  Muslims  there. 
Kyrgyzstan  resolutely  condemns  the  violence  being 
perpetrated  against  the  ethnic  minority  in  Myanmar, 
and  we  earnestly  call  on  all  parties  to  the  conflict  to 
engage in peaceful negotiations.
We  also  urge  all  countries  around  the  globe  to 
uphold  their  commitment  to  the  provisions  of  the 
international  conventions  on  the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons of mass destruction.
It is encouraging to see the increasing role that the 
United  Nations  is  playing  in  our  collective  efforts  to 
confront the challenges and threats that we face today. 
But as that role increases, so does its accountability. It 
is the 15 members of the Security Council that currently 
decide the fate of the world. The consensus they reach 
determines  matters  of  war  and  peace,  security  and 
stability in various parts of our planet. Moreover, the 
five  permanent  members  of  the  Council  can  always 
block any decision. Kyrgyzstan therefore advocates the 
adoption  of  urgent  measures  to  improve  the  Security 
Council that will enable it to take into consideration the 
interests of a majority of States.
Our world will continue to develop and change. It 
will continue to confront difficulties and crises, make 
breakthroughs and have successes in development. But 
all of us are united by the desire to preserve peace and 
concord on Earth. For that to happen, we need to provide 
equitable conditions and possibilities for development 
in every country, so that no one is left behind or left to 
cope with troubles and problems alone.
Implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, the Paris Climate Change Agreement and other 
agreements  on  the  international  agenda  must  remain 
the main priority of our joint action as an international 
community. Only together can we build a world based 
on  cultural  diversity;  on  dialogue,  not  sanctions;  on 
preventive  measures  and  greater  accountability;  a 
world  where  no  one  will  be  forgotten  or  left  behind.
So let us unite our efforts and help all people on Earth 
to live better and attain even a little more joy. Together 
we can build a world that provides a dignified life for 
everyone on our planet Earth.
(spoke in Kyrgyz; translation provided by the delegation)
As I end my speech, I would now like to address 
my  beloved  Kyrgyz  people,  my  dear  compatriots,  in 
Kyrgyz.  A  thousand  years  later,  the  Kyrgyz  nomads 
6/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
have  found  their  way  again.  For  us  to  find  that  way, 
thousands of our forefathers had to sacrifice their lives 
and thousands of our mothers were left blinded by grief. 
Are  there  any  mountains  where  no  Kyrgyz  bones  are 
buried? Are there any valleys where no Kyrgyz blood 
has flowed?
In a few days’ time, the Kyrgyz people will elect 
their new leader. Let us not lose our way by following 
the oligarchs and leaders of other countries. We cannot 
let  others  trample  on  Kyrgyz  leaders  ever  again.  We 
cannot let our national wealth and our lands be sold off 
or given away again while ordinary people suffer. Let 
us  not  be  deceived  by  money.  Let  us  not  be  deceived 
by  fancy  words.  Let  us  not  look  deceitfully  at  one 
another.  Let  us  be  honest  with  one  another.  We  must 
preserve our dignity and our unity. We must preserve 
our motherland. We must preserve our people.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Kyrgyz 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Almazbek  Atambayev,  President  of 
the 
Kyrgyz  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ilham Heydar oglu Aliyev, 
President of the Republic of Azerbaijan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Azerbaijan.
Mr.  Ilham  Heydar  oglu  Aliyev,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Ilham Heydar oglu Aliyev, 
President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Aliyev:  For  more 
than  25  years, 
Armenia  has  occupied  20  per  cent  of  the  territory  of 
Azerbaijan  —  Nagorno  Karabakh  and  seven  other 
regions of our country. Nagorno Karabakh is an ancient 
and historical part of Azerbaijan. As a result of Armenian 
aggression,  almost  20  per  cent  of  the  internationally 
recognized territory of Azerbaijan is under Armenian 
occupation. More than 1 million of Azerbaijanis have 
become  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons. 
Armenia  has  conducted  a  policy  of  ethnic  cleansing 
against Azerbaijanis in Armenia, in Nagorno Karabakh 
and seven other regions of Azerbaijan.
Armenia committed genocide against Azerbaijanis 
in Khojaly. The Khojaly genocide is already officially 
recognized  by  more  than  10  countries.  On  February 
26, 1992, Armenia committed war crimes, killing 613 
peaceful residents of Khojaly, among them 106 women 
and  63  children.  One  of  those  war  criminals  who 
committed that terrible crime against humanity is the 
current Armenian President.
Leading 
international  organizations 
adopted 
resolutions  demanding  the  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
troops  from  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan.  In  1993,  the 
Security  Council  adopted  resolutions  822  (1993), 
853  (1993),  874  (1993),  and  884  (1993),  demanding 
the 
immediate  and  unconditional  withdrawal  of 
Armenian  troops  from  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan. 
Other 
the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation, the Movement of 
Non-Aligned Countries, the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the Parliamentary 
Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European 
Parliament, adopted similar decisions and resolutions.
international  organizations, 
such  as 
Armenia  does  not  implement  them.  For  24  years, 
Armenia has ignored Security Council resolutions, and 
unfortunately it has not been punished for that. In some 
cases,  Security  Council  resolutions  are  implemented 
within  days.  In  our  case,  resolutions  have  gone 
unimplemented for 24 years. That is a demonstration of 
double standards, and it is unacceptable. International 
sanctions must be imposed on Armenia. A major United 
Nations reform should be the creation of a mechanism 
for implementing Security Council resolutions.
Armenia does everything in its power to maintain 
the status quo and block substantive negotiations. The 
co-Chairs of the OSCE Minsk Group — France, Russia 
and the United States — have stated on several occasions 
that  the  status  quo  is  unacceptable.  How  can  such  a 
corrupt,  failed  State,  ruled  by  a  despotic,  medieval 
regime,  violate  international  law  for  so  many  years 
and ignore Security Council resolutions and statements 
by  the  world’s  leading  countries?  Because  there  is  a 
double standard. There is no international pressure on 
the  aggressor,  no  international  sanctions  imposed  on 
the Armenian dictatorship. That policy must end. It is 
not only a demonstration of injustice, it also creates the 
impression that the Armenian dictatorship can continue 
its policy of terror.
17-29389
7/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
In  April  2016,  Armenia  committed  another  war 
crime  on  the  line  of  contact,  attacking  our  cities  and 
villages. In that attack, six Azerbaijani civilians were 
killed,  among  them  one  child,  and  26  were  wounded. 
Hundreds of our houses were destroyed. Azerbaijan had 
to  defend  its  citizens.  Through  a  successful  counter-
attack,  Azerbaijan  liberated  some  territories  in  the 
three occupied areas — Agdere, Fuzuli and Jabrayil —
and installed its national flag in the liberated territories. 
The Armenian leadership should not forget that lesson, 
or  the  results  of  their  next  provocation  will  be  more 
painful for them.
When it loses on the battlefield, Armenia resorts to 
the cruel policy of attacking our cities and villages. On 
4 July, Armenia launched a targeted attack on Alkhanli 
village  in  Fuzuli  district  with  82  and  120  millimetre 
mortars  and  grenade  launchers,  killing  two  civilians, 
two-year old Zahra Guliyeva and her grandmother. On 
7 August, a 13-year-old boy in the Tovuz area, which 
borders Armenia, was wounded by Armenian soldiers. 
The  international  community  must  stop  Armenian 
fascism and terror.
Azerbaijan  is  committed  to  a  peaceful  resolution 
of the conflict, but at the same time it will defend its 
citizens, in line with the Charter of the United Nations, if 
Armenian military provocations continue. If necessary, 
Azerbaijan  will  again  punish  the  aggressor,  as  it  did 
in  April  2016.  The  Armenian-Azerbaijani  Nagorno 
Karabakh  conflict  must  be  resolved  on  the  basis  of 
international  law  and  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions,  and  the  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan 
must be completely restored.
Despite  the  enormous  difficulties  caused  by  the 
Armenian occupation, Azerbaijan has developed rapidly 
and successfully. It is an active member of the United 
Nations,  and  in  2011  was  elected  as  a  non-permanent 
member  of  the  Security  Council,  receiving  the  votes 
of  155  countries.  An  absolute  majority  of  Member 
States  demonstrated  their  support  for  Azerbaijan  and 
its policy. For Azerbaijan, which at that time had been 
independent for only 20 years, that was a great success.
Azerbaijan is a stable, modern, democratic country. 
The  development  of  democracy  and  the  protection 
of  human  rights  are  among  the  top  priorities  of  our 
Government.  All  fundamental  freedoms  are  fully 
guaranteed 
including  freedom  of 
expression, of the press, of assembly and of religion.
in  Azerbaijan, 
Azerbaijan  is  one  of  the  world’s  recognized 
centres of multiculturalism, which is a State policy in 
Azerbaijan, where representatives of all ethnic groups 
and religions live in peace and harmony. In Azerbaijan 
we declared 2016 a Year of Multiculturalism and 2017 a 
Year of Islamic Solidarity.
Unlike Armenia, which is a mono-ethnic country 
with  almost  no  national  minorities  and  where 
xenophobia is a State policy, Azerbaijan is a multi-ethnic 
country.  Our  society’s  cultural,  ethnic  and  religious 
diversity is a big asset. In that regard, Armenia, where 
Islamophobia  has  reached  a  peak,  has  committed 
many acts of vandalism, destroying all mosques in the 
occupied territories.
Azerbaijan  has  hosted  numerous  international 
events aimed at strengthening interreligious dialogue. 
Among  them  are  the  seventh  Global  Forum  of  the 
United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  the  World 
Religious  Leaders  Summit,  the  World  Forum  on 
Intercultural Dialogue, on four occasions, and the Baku 
International Humanitarian Forum, on five occasions, 
as well as other important events.
As  a  member  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation  and  the  Council  of  Europe,  in  2008 
Azerbaijan  launched  the  Baku  Process,  which  is 
supported by the United Nations. The main goal of the 
Baku Process is to strengthen dialogue, partnership and 
cooperation between the Muslim world and Europe.
In  2015,  Azerbaijan  hosted  the  first  European 
Games,  in  which  6,000  athletes  from  50  countries 
participated.  This  year,  we  hosted  the  fourth  Islamic 
Solidarity Games, with almost 3,000 athletes from 54 
countries, so in the space of two years our capital city 
of Baku was the venue for both the European and the 
Islamic  Games,  in  a  major  contribution  to  promoting 
multiculturalism.  In  a  demonstration  of  Azerbaijan’s 
status as one of the world’s leading sporting countries, 
the  Azerbaijani  team  came  second  overall  at  the  first 
European  Games  and  first  at  the  Islamic  Solidarity 
Games. Further proof of our achievement in this area 
is  the  fact  that  Azerbaijan  finished  fourteenth  overall 
at  the  Rio  2016  Olympic  Games  in  terms  of  medals, 
winning 18 in total.
Azerbaijan has made significant progress in social 
and  economic  development.  Our  economy  has  more 
than  tripled  since  2004,  and  we  have  created  more 
than  1.6  million  jobs,  keeping  our  unemployment 
level one of the lowest in the world at 5 per cent. We 
8/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
have prioritized poverty reduction; our poverty levels 
have gone from more than 40 per cent in 2004 to 5 or 
6 per cent. Our hard-currency reserves are equal to the 
country’s gross domestic product (GDP) and our State’s 
foreign debt is less than 20 per cent of GDP. In 2009 
Azerbaijan  was  named  leading  reformer  of  the  world 
in the World Bank’s Doing Business report. The Davos 
World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report 
for 2016-2017 ranked Azerbaijan thirty-seventh of 138 
countries. In 2015, Azerbaijan received the South-South 
Award  in  recognition  of  its  outstanding  achievements 
in  implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
and  since  2010  has  been  classified  as  a  country  with 
high  human  development.  Our  rapid  development  of 
our space industry has enabled Azerbaijan to join the 
world’s  space  club  with  Azerspace  and  Azersky,  its 
two telecommunication and field observation satellites, 
with a third, Azerspace-2, to be launched soon.
Today,  Azerbaijan  exports  intellectual  as  well  as 
industrial and agricultural products. Our State agency 
for services and social innovations for citizens, ASAN, 
is  a  model  for  modern  public  relations  and  services. 
With 251 services under one roof, the agency’s absolute 
transparency  and  zero  tolerance  for  corruption  and 
bribery has made it attractive to many countries. As a 
purely Azerbaijani brand in the five years since it was 
founded, it has provided more than 1.6 million services 
to  5  million  people.  The  total  number  of  applications 
is 17 million and the public’s rating of ASAN is 98 per 
cent.  In  2015,  in  recognition  of  its  contribution  to 
excellence, creativity and simplification of the delivery 
of public services, ASAN received the United Nations 
Public Service Award.
The main goal of our policies is improving the lives 
of  our  citizens.  Since  2004,  salaries  have  increased 
by  5.6  times  and  pensions  8.2  times.  With  no  foreign 
financial  support,  we  have  built  almost  100  new 
settlements  and  towns  for  refugees  and  internally 
displaced persons affected by the Armenian occupation. 
We have thereby improved the living conditions of more 
than 250,000 people, providing them with new houses 
and flats and building 152 schools, 59 medical centres, 
and  60  kindergartens  in  their  towns  and  settlements. 
Overall,  since  2004  we  have  built  or  renovated  more 
than  3,000  schools  and  600  hospitals  and  medical 
centres. Azerbaijan’s literacy levels are close to 100 per 
cent. Every year more than 5 million people — half of 
the  population  —  receive  medical  check-ups  totally 
financed by the State budget.
Azerbaijan  plays  an  important  role  in  the  global 
energy  market.  As  a  reliable  supplier  of  oil  and  gas 
to  international  markets,  we  provide  energy  security 
for  many  countries  throughout  the  world.  Today 
Azerbaijan,  together  with  its  international  partners, 
is  close  to  completing  the  $40  billion  Southern  Gas 
Corridor  project,  one  of  the  largest  infrastructure 
projects in the world.
Another important priority of ours is transportation. 
Situated as it is between Europe and Asia, Azerbaijan 
is  making  wise  use  of  its  geographical  location  to 
become  one  of  Eurasia’s  leading  transportation  hubs. 
In recent years we have built six international airports 
and 11,000 kilometres of modern highways and roads. 
Azerbaijan’s 270 vessels make up the biggest trade fleet 
in the Caspian Sea, and our modern shipbuilding yards 
are  capable  of  building  all  types  and  sizes  of  ships. 
We  are  also  modernizing  our  railroad  infrastructure, 
and most of our territory can now be reached by rail. 
Next  year  we  will  inaugurate  an  international  trade 
seaport that will be the biggest in the Caspian region. 
Azerbaijan is making significant investments in East-
West and North-South transportation corridors in order 
to create the shortest possible routes across the country 
in both directions.
The President returned to the Chair.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  last 
year  we  celebrated  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  restoration  of  our  independence.  Azerbaijan’s 
successful  development  has  demonstrated  once  again 
that only when a country is free and independent and 
its destiny is in the hands of its people can it achieve 
success.  The  greatest  happiness  of  the  people  of 
Azerbaijan  is  that  we  live  in  an  independent  country 
conducting  independent  polices  —  policies  based  on 
the national interests of our people.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Azerbaijan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ilham  Heydar  oglu  Aliyev,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. David Arthur Granger, President 
of the Republic of Guyana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Guyana.
17-29389
9/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of 
the Republic of Guyana, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President  Granger:  Let  me  begin  by  expressing 
the deep condolences and solidarity of the Government 
and  people  of  Guyana  to  the  victims  of  yesterday’s 
earthquake  in  Mexico  and  those  of  Hurricane  Maria, 
which  virtually  destroyed 
the  Commonwealth  of 
Dominica two days ago.
The Cooperative Republic of Guyana congratulates 
you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to  lead  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session.  We 
are  confident  that  under  your  guidance  progress  will 
be  made  in  advancing  the  international  agenda  and 
realizing the theme of this year’s Assembly, “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”.  Guyana  also  appreciates  the 
sterling performance of your predecessor, Ambassador 
Peter  Thomson  of  Fiji,  in  his  stewardship  of  the 
Assembly during the past year. I would also like to take 
this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Secretary-General 
António Guterres on his appointment last year and to 
wish him a successful tenure.
Today,  I  am  speaking  of  people,  peace  and  the 
planet. Nothing is more important in this general debate 
than  ensuring  that  all  representatives  here  respect  its 
theme, “Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a 
decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”.  First,  the 
theme  enjoins  us  to  focus  on  people  —  people  of  all 
countries and in all circumstances. It is about the human 
condition of people in States that are large and small, 
rich and poor, strong and weak. It is about humankind’s 
condition everywhere on Earth.
The  world  is  facing  several  serious  humanitarian 
crises.  In  too  many  parts  of  the  world,  children  still 
die from preventable diseases or go to bed hungry. In 
some  places,  women  are  denied  equal  opportunities 
for enjoying a good life. The gap between the world’s 
rich  and  poor  remains  unacceptably  wide.  Conflicts 
within  States  have  spawned  international  refugee 
crises,  resulting  in  the  displacement  of  millions  from 
their homelands.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) 
represent  our  collective  desire  and  determination 
to  eradicate  hunger  and  poverty  from  our  planet 
while  promoting  equal  opportunities  in  education, 
employment and social justice for both men and women. 
The adoption of the SDGs has catalysed our aspirations 
for  a  better  world  into  concrete  and  forward-looking 
actions  and  objectives.  The  Goals  seek  to  promote 
respect  for  people’s  inherent  dignity  and  their  rights 
as human beings. However, their advancement is being 
obstructed  by  human  rights  violations,  by  people’s 
involuntary  migration  from  their  homelands  and  by 
terrorism  and  warfare.  The  challenge  for  the  United 
Nations is resolving to reinforce respect for the rights 
of  citizens  within  the  governance  structures  of  our 
Member States.
Secondly,  I  am  speaking  of  planet  Earth.  A 
sustainable planet is humankind’s ultimate patrimony. 
Nothing  is  more  vital  to  people’s  survival.  We  have 
been  indifferent  too  long  to  the  need  to  protect  the 
planet, and now its sustainability is threatened on many 
fronts. Climate change is not a fiction or the invention 
of a few extremists. This year, the small island States of 
the Caribbean and parts of North America have felt the 
devastating  fury  of  a  series  of  hurricanes  —  Harvey, 
Irma, José, Katia, Lee and Maria, to whose frequency 
and  ferocity  humankind  has  contributed  through  the 
reckless exploitation of Earth’s resources.
Hurricane  Irma  was  a  deadly,  destructive  portent 
of the extreme vulnerability and fragility of the small 
island  developing  States  and  low-lying  coastal  States 
of  the  Caribbean,  and  Guyana  is  playing  its  part, 
within  the  limits  of  its  resources,  to  provide  relief  to 
the affected populations of our sister Caribbean States. 
Guyana  signed  and  celebrated  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  last  year  in  this  very  Hall.  We 
renew  our  commitment  to  its  goals  this  year  in  a 
demonstration  of  Guyana’s  pioneering  role  in  global 
environmental  stewardship.  It  must  be  remembered 
that in 1989 — three years before the United Nations 
Conference on Environment and Development was held 
in  Rio  in  1992  —  Guyana  had  the  foresight  to  enter 
into an environmental covenant with the international 
community  by  dedicating  360,000  hectares  of 
its rainforests,
“to  develop,  demonstrate  and  make  available  to 
Guyana and the international community systems, 
the  sustainable 
methods  and 
techniques 
for 
10/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
utilization of the multiple resources of the tropical 
forest and the conservation of biological diversity”.
Twenty  years  after  that  international  initiative, 
Guyana  entered  into  an  agreement  with  the  Kingdom 
of Norway,
“to work together to provide the world with a relevant, 
replicable model of how Reducing Emissions from 
Deforestation  and  Forest  Degradation,  known  as 
the  REDD-plus  programme,  plus  conservation 
and  sustainable  forest  management,  can  align  the 
development objectives of the forest countries with 
the need to combat climate change”.
Guyana  is  part  of  the  Guiana  Shield,  one  of  the 
world’s  last  remaining  blocks  of  pristine  rainforest. 
The Guiana Shield is the source of 15 per cent of the 
world’s  freshwater  reserves.  Its  biodiversity  provides 
ecosystem  services,  such  as  food,  fresh  water  and 
medicinal products. It provides environmental services, 
such as the regulation of the water cycle, water quality 
and pollination. The Shield’s forests capture and store 
carbon,  mitigating  the  greenhouse  effect.  In  other 
words, the Shield is essential to life on Earth. Guyana 
calls on the United Nations to help protect and preserve 
the Guiana Shield as a global resource for the survival 
and sustainability of our planet.
I  will  now  speak  of  peace.  Striving  for  peace 
has  been  the  principal  purpose  and  preoccupation  of 
this  Organization  throughout  its  existence.  A  good 
life  for  the  world’s  peoples  and  sustainable  use  of 
the  planet’s  resources  are  predicated  on  peace  with 
justice,  including  justice  within  and  between  States. 
The  world  is  weary  of  war.  Striving  for  peace  must 
be  humankind’s  ceaseless  quest.  The  United  Nations 
is  the  paramount  global  instrument  of  peace.  It  has  a 
vital role to play in ensuring respect for international 
law through the International Court of Justice and the 
Security  Council.  In  striving  for  peace,  we  must  aim 
to  resolve  long-standing  inter-State  conflicts.  In  that 
regard,  Guyana  supports  the  call  for  reform  of  the 
Security Council, in order to give an even greater voice 
to developing countries.
We  reiterate  our  support  for  a  two-State  solution 
to the Palestine-Israeli conflict. We affirm the right of 
the  Palestinian  people  to  a  homeland  and  a  dignified 
existence. We demand the withdrawal of the injurious 
economic  embargo  on  the  Caribbean  island  of  Cuba, 
which frustrates its right to development.
Striving  for  peace  and  the  right  to  development 
have  been  Guyana’s  most  serious  concerns  since 
national independence in 1966. When I addressed the 
Assembly last September (see A/71/PV.8), I explained 
the danger that we have been facing on our borders as a 
consequence of the territorial claims of our neighbour 
to  the  West,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela.  I 
outlined  to  the  world’s  nations  the  peril  that  Guyana 
was enduring on its borders at the hands of Venezuela. 
Venezuela’s claim to Guyana’s territory, however, has 
not  diminished  or  been  diverted.  Guyana  remains 
imperilled. Disturbing developments in Venezuela have 
attracted the world’s attention and roused the concerns 
of many of us about the privations of its people.
The Caribbean people want the Caribbean to be a 
zone of peace. Venezuela’s claim on Guyana’s territorial 
integrity, however, would be a threat to that zone and 
that peace. Venezuela is more than four times the size 
of  Guyana,  and  yet  it  claims  two-thirds  of  Guyana’s 
territory, including its maritime space. We depend on 
our territorial and maritime resources for our country’s 
development  and  for  propelling  our  people  out  of 
poverty. After 51 years of Guyana’s independence, the 
Venezuelan  claim  persists.  An  eminent  international 
tribunal provided a full, perfect and final settlement of 
the issue 118 years ago, in 1899. Venezuela repudiated 
that  arbitral  award  in  1962  in  the  Special  Committee 
on  Decolonization,  as  British  Guiana  —  as  we  were 
then — strove to achieve its independence.
This  is  a  warning  to  the  world,  through  the 
Assembly, that peace will be jeopardized in our region 
if justice does not prevail, not only within Venezuela, 
but  also  with  regard  to  its  border  controversy  with 
Guyana.  Four  Secretaries-General  have  been  seized 
of the Venezuelans’ claim. The choice has become one 
between  a  just  and  peaceful  settlement  in  accordance 
with  international  law,  and  a  Venezuelan  posture  of 
attrition that is increasingly blustering and militaristic. 
In  this  matter,  protraction  is  the  enemy  of  resolution 
and the ally of sustained conflict.
Fortunately,  as  they  indicated  publicly,  former 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and current Secretary-
General  António  Guterres  have  both  decided  that  if, 
based  on  the  1966  Geneva  Agreement,  significant 
progress has not been made by the end of 2017 towards 
arriving  at  a  full  agreement  on  a  settlement  of  the 
controversy, the International Court of Justice will be 
the next means of peaceful settlement, unless Guyana 
and  Venezuela  jointly  request  otherwise.  Guyana  has 
17-29389
11/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
been working assiduously with the Secretary-General’s 
personal  representative  and  looks  to  the  international 
community to ensure that Venezuela is not allowed to 
thwart the process of judicial settlement, which is the 
clear and agreed path to peace and justice.
The  people  of  the  world  yearn  to  fulfil  their 
potential  in  dignity  and  equality  and  in  a  healthy 
environment  —  an  attainable  objective  of 
the 
Sustainable Development Goals endorsed by the United 
Nations. Peace for the world’s peoples is the mandate 
of  the  United  Nations.  Peace  can  be  achieved  by 
addressing the world’s humanitarian crises, promoting 
justice within and between nations and resolving long-
standing conflicts between States.
Planet  Earth  can  provide  a  good  life  for  all.  The 
planet  can  be  protected  from  the  ravages  of  climate 
change  and  reckless  damage  to  its  ecology  and 
biodiversity.  United,  the  nations  gathered  in  this  Hall 
can  fulfil  the  promise  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  theme  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
focus on people, strive for peace and protect the planet.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Guyana 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  David  Arthur  Granger,  President  of  the 
Republic of Guyana, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Dragan Čović, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.
Mr.  Dragan  Čović,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Dragan  Čović,  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Čović  (spoke 
in  Bosnian;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  first  like  to 
congratulate you, Mr. President, on the task you have 
just embarked on in leading the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session. I am convinced that your tact 
and  diplomacy,  which  we  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
have witnessed first-hand, will help the most important 
body  of  the  United  Nations  make  new  progress  and 
effectively face new challenges. My gratitude also goes 
to the outgoing President for the leadership he showed 
during the seventy-first session.
I would also like to join others in congratulating His 
Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his  appointment 
as Secretary-General of the United Nations. His noble 
and wise intention to devote more attention to building 
bridges  to  connect  us  all  in  the  years  ahead  will 
certainly have all of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s support.
In a world dominated by uncertainty and insecurity, 
it is simply not possible to overstate the importance of 
the principles and the multilateral framework defined 
for  us  by  the  founders  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
strength of the Organization lies in both our individual 
and  shared  strengths  in  our  efforts  to  eradicate 
diseases,  hunger,  terrorism  and  every  other  threat 
to  human  existence.  In  doing  so,  of  course,  we  must 
admit to ourselves how necessary and important it is to 
use thoughtful and constructive measures to bring the 
United  Nations  system  closer  to  its  surroundings  and 
enable it to adapt so that it can anticipate the challenges 
its  environment  presents  and  respond  to  them  with  a 
force  that  is  far  stronger  than  the  simple  sum  of  our 
individual abilities.
We continue to witness and to be deeply concerned 
about  the  ongoing  suffering  of  the  Syrian  people. 
Bosnia and Herzegovina strongly condemns every form 
of  violence  against  Syria’s  civilian  population.  The 
violence must stop. The dignity of every Syrian woman, 
man  and  child,  and  of  every  Syrian  refugee,  must  be 
restored.  Their  belief  in  the  possibility  of  recovery 
and opportunities for a new life must also be restored. 
We and many other delegations in this Hall today will 
continue to call for a peaceful and political solution to 
the  conflict  through  negotiations.  That  process  must 
be  owned  by  the  Syrian  people  alone,  based  on  the 
Geneva  communiqué  (S/2012/522,  annex),  and  with 
the assistance of the international community and the 
United  Nations,  led  by  the  Special  Envoy  for  Syria, 
whose  selfless  efforts  to  continue  the  negotiations  in 
Geneva are highly appreciated.
It seems superfluous to repeat that there can be no 
peace and prosperity for the Israeli people if the same 
is not provided for the Palestinians, and vice versa. The 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict represents the most serious 
12/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
unresolved problem in the Middle East, and the current 
absence  of  any  negotiations  between  the  parties  is 
disturbing. Both nations deserve better. Again — and 
this has been the case for decades — the journey towards 
peace has been too slow and has become more and more 
complex.  It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  steadfastly 
recall the ultimate goal, which is the existence of two 
States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  peacefully  side  by 
side,  in  safety  and  within  recognized  borders.  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  still  believes  that  this  goal  can  be 
achieved if both parties can fulfil their obligations as 
set  forth  in  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions, 
the Madrid principles and the Arab Peace Initiative.
Evil  has  existed 
throughout  human  history. 
Sometimes  it  is  on  the  margins  of  our  communities. 
Sometimes,  to  a  greater  or  lesser  degree,  it  is  inside 
them. It does not always take the same form or manifest 
itself with the same intensity. Terrorism is undoubtedly 
the greatest evil of our times, and its form and strength 
represent  the  greatest  threat  we  have  to  international 
peace and security. Destructive forces have always had 
deep roots and many different faces, but there can be 
no  justification  for  their  existence.  We  need  united, 
concentrated  efforts,  along  with  a  multidimensional 
and 
terrorism 
and  permanently  eliminate  the  fear  of  terror  from 
our communities.
integrated  approach, 
to  overcome 
in  strengthening 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  will  continue 
to 
contribute  to  the  full  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  and  the 
activities  of  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee.  We 
particularly  welcome  the  efforts  of  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres 
the  counter-
terrorism capacities of the United Nations and, in that 
regard, the establishment of the new Office of Counter-
Terrorism.  For  our  part,  we  are  ready  to  constantly 
strengthen  cooperation  at  the  regional,  subregional 
and  international  levels,  especially  in  the  areas  of 
information collection and exchange. As a member of 
the Global Coalition against Da’esh, we will continue 
to  support  the  Coalition’s  efforts  to  liberate  entire 
communities and help them recover from the suffering 
and harm imposed by Da’esh and its global network.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  committed  to  the  full 
implementation  of  all  Security  Council  resolutions 
aimed  at  bringing  persons  involved  in  financing, 
planning, preparing or executing terrorist acts to justice. 
Furthermore, we fully share the view that for the long-
term  eradication  of  the  evil  of  terrorism  and  violent 
extremism,  it  is  necessary  to  continuously  invest  in 
efforts along the entire spectrum of interconnected areas, 
from  the  eradication  of  injustice,  inequality,  poverty 
and  a  lack  of  freedom  to  improving  understanding 
among those who differ, and to strengthen intercultural 
dialogue  and  generally  accepted  democratic  values. 
Once  we  start  thinking  that  we  have  done  enough  in 
all  those  areas,  we  need  to  start  again  and  redouble 
our efforts.
A world without the threat of the total destruction 
of humankind is less utopian if there are fewer means 
and  arms  for  destruction.  Disarmament  and 
the 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  are 
therefore  still  prerequisites  for  the  global  peace  and 
security that we all strive for. In that context, Bosnia 
and Herzegovina joins the strong condemnation of the 
nuclear  tests  conducted  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  We  also  call  on  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  comply  without  delay, 
fully and unconditionally, with its obligations under all 
relevant Security Council resolutions.
My  faith  in  the  value  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  is  as  strong  today  as  it  was 
two  years  ago,  when  we  adopted  it.  In  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, it has received due institutional attention, 
based on its significance and the nobility of the goals it 
sets for us. The roles have been defined, the goals are 
clear and coordination has been established.
For  us,  as  well  as  for  other  developing  countries 
burdened  by 
the  discrepancies  between  wishes 
and  possibilities,  strong  political  will  and  decisive 
practical steps in the right direction will not always be 
enough. Fulfilling the noble and ambitious Sustainable 
Development Goals requires knowledge and norms that 
many  Member  States  do  not  have.  It  might  produce 
an  additional  burden  on  the  already  overburdened 
State  budgets.  Assistance  in  formulating  strategies 
and  policies, 
technologies,  providing 
financial resources and measuring progress is therefore 
indisputably crucial, along with, of course, countries’ 
full ownership of the implementation processes. In that 
connection, we have fully understood and accepted the 
strong interconnectedness of the economic, social and 
environmental dimensions of sustainable development. 
We  have  ratified  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change and have chosen to follow its guidelines. It is 
a debt to our children and to the planet that has to be 
unconditionally fulfilled.
transferring 
17-29389
13/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
Whether  in  our  past,  present  or  future,  women 
in  my  country  hold  high  positions  that  rightfully  and 
naturally belong to them. The role of women is vital to 
the development and prosperity of the family as well as 
of  society  as  a  whole.  In  post-conflict  environments, 
women  are  always  the  first  to  extend  the  hand  of 
reconciliation.  In  times  of  great  challenges  and  risks, 
we need the strength and natural ability of women more 
than ever in order to pursue peaceful solutions.
Although we are extremely proud of the significant 
progress we have made in implementing the provisions 
of the historic Security Council resolution 1325 (2000), 
on  women  and  peace  and  security,  we  are  also  aware 
of  the  areas  where  it  is  possible  and  necessary  to  do 
considerably  more.  We  will  certainly  continue  to 
invest in additional efforts to strengthen and empower 
Bosnian women and girls in accordance with the Beijing 
Declaration and Platform for Action.
Another social group that deserves special attention 
is young people, who are a constant source of change 
and an incubator of inventive solutions to the problems 
we inherit from the past. When healthy, educated, and 
employed, they are the engine that drives our societies 
forward.  Environments  in  which  young  people  have 
limited access to education, economic development and 
decision-making  processes  are  subject  to  frustration, 
social unrest and instability. For that reason, a significant 
part of the reform processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina 
is dedicated to creating conditions for reducing youth 
unemployment, corresponding to targets 8.5 and 8.6 of 
Goal 8 of the 2030 Agenda.
Unfortunately,  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  we 
know all too much about the high price of war. For us, 
preventive  diplomacy  is  a  tool  that,  when  used  at  the 
right time, can help ensure that wars are never repeated 
anywhere.  There  are  many  reasons  why,  on  a  global 
level,  the  United  Nations  system  must  be  at  the  heart 
of all activities that use preventive measures in order to 
resolve crises and prevent people from being displaced 
from their homes.
Again, much of the responsibility for prevention lies 
at other levels. Within our communities, we must counter 
all symptoms of trouble and conflicts. We must correct 
social  injustice,  reconcile  what  seems  irreconcilable, 
persevere  in  compromise,  strive  for  pluralistic  and 
inclusive solutions, give equal weight to our own rights 
and  those  of  others  and  constantly  seek  ways  to  find 
a  common  language.  I  believe  that  prevention  and 
mediation, as well as conflict management techniques 
and conflict resolution in divided societies, should be 
applied  first  within  the  region  at  issue,  with  regional 
actors  who  generally  better  understand  the  opposing 
sides,  their  reasoning  and  their  different  views  of  the 
problem.
We  are  proud  of  our  participation  in  the  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
in  South  Sudan, 
Cyprus, Afghanistan, the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo and Mali. We consider that to be the most direct 
contribution  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  to  building 
world  peace.  We  also  see  our  involvement  in  United 
Nations missions as a way to do things that are possible 
today but that not long ago were almost impossible to 
even imagine, and so to help people in areas affected 
by conflicts.
Bosnia and Herzegovina has learned lessons from 
its difficult past, and for the future it has chosen to follow 
the principles set by the founders of the European Union 
60 years ago. We have adopted the European path, and, 
choosing  between  cooperation  and  confrontation,  we 
chose and will always choose cooperation in the search 
for common compromises.
On  our  own,  but  also  with  the  unselfish  help  of 
our European friends, we do everything we can to find 
as  many  opportunities  for  open  dialogue  as  possible, 
and  we  use  each  of  those  opportunities  to  build  even 
more  trust  and  mutually  beneficial  connections  for 
our  people,  who,  despite  difficulties  and  complicated 
times,  have  more  common  links  and  interests  than 
we, their leaders, are sometimes willing to recognize. 
Reconciliation, 
trust,  partnership  and  cooperation 
among all of us, in contexts both broad and narrow, must 
become living and long-term principles for a stable and 
secure future. Commitment to regional initiatives and 
constructive action through the regional organizations 
to which we belong are therefore high on the list of our 
foreign-policy priorities.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is now doing everything it 
can to speed up its progress to where it really belongs, 
within  the  framework  of  a  strong  European  family, 
whose values it shares. Reform and other processes that 
we are pursuing for that purpose are not always simple 
or  easy,  but  we  see  them  as  a  unique  opportunity  to 
accelerate  the  harmonization  of  our  economic,  social 
and  institutional  development  with  what  awaits  us 
tomorrow  in  the  European  Union.  We  will  therefore 
continue to fulfil the obligations we have undertaken in 
14/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
order to reach the status of candidate by the beginning 
of 2018 with true commitment, which will be a powerful 
and  much  needed  boost  to  internal  consolidation  and 
the further acceleration of integration processes.
However,  it  is  with  concern  that  I  wish  to  draw 
the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the  fact  that  my  country 
is  going  through  a  period  of  important  challenges.  I 
am  deeply  convinced  that  one  people  in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  cannot  be  happy  and  prosperous  if  the 
other two are not, and indeed if all other people living 
in our country are not. In that regard, I believe that it is 
up to us in Bosnia and Herzegovina to make a crucial 
step to adopt changes to our electoral legislation by the 
end of this year, in accordance with the decisions of the 
Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As in 
the  past,  we  expect  understanding  and  support  of  the 
international community in solving the issue, because 
it is of vital importance for further democratizing and 
achieving our full integration into the European Union.
Allow me to conclude with a reminder that all of 
our  needs  —  economic,  social,  security,  political  and 
cultural — can be very diverse, as are our possibilities 
for  achieving  them.  The  choices  we  make  every  day 
to  ensure  prosperity  for  our  people  also  vary  from 
one Member State to another. I am convinced that the 
future of humankind will largely depend on our ability 
to  turn  our  differences  into  advantages.  We  expect 
the  United  Nations  system  to  guide  us  in  that  and  to 
assist us, above all, in building a system based on unity 
in diversity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Chairman of the Presidency of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Dragan Čović, Chairman of the Presidency of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Panama.
Mr. Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez, President of the 
Republic of Panama, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez, 
President of the Republic of Panama, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  would  like  to  begin  my  remarks  by  extending  my 
condolences  and  solidarity  to  the  people  and  the 
Government of Mexico for the victims of the earthquake 
that struck yesterday, as well as to the peoples of Cuba, 
the  United  States  and  the  nations  of  the  Caribbean 
for  the  deaths  and  heavy  material  damage  left  in  the 
wake  of  Hurricanes  Irma  and  Harvey  and  now  being 
inflicted by Hurricane Maria, especially in Dominica. 
Our  prayers  are  with  the  victims  and  their  families. 
Such  natural  disasters  send  a  clear  message  that  we 
must  continue  to  forge  ties  of  solidarity  and  that  our 
countries’ protective and security capacities should be 
used solely to help each other, not to create conflict.
I would like to congratulate you, President Lajčák, 
on your election to steer the debates at this session of 
the  General  Assembly,  and  to  extend  warm  greetings 
to Secretary-General António Guterres. In my capacity 
as  President  of  the  Republic  of  Panama,  I  pledge  the 
support  of  my  Government  and  country.  From  this 
rostrum, with respect and affection, I would also like 
to send my warmest greetings to the people of Panama, 
who have given me the opportunity to serve them.
For a fourth consecutive year, I am returning to the 
Assembly as the world is beset by challenges such as 
organized  crime,  terrorism  and  natural  disasters  that 
affect all our populations. Another major challenge we 
must  tackle  is  the  increase  in  migration  flows  driven 
by war, poverty and inequality. Against that backdrop, 
the theme of the Assembly at this session — “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”  —  will  encourage  Heads  of 
State and Government to engage in dialogue and reach 
agreement on concrete actions that we can take to bring 
about peace in the world.
Peace is a human construct, the fruit of coexisting 
respectfully and meeting the basic needs of individuals, 
responsibly,  all  the  while  preserving  the  planet  thatis 
our  home.  The  most  effective  and  appropriate  way  to 
resolve  the  problems  that  currently  affect  the  Earth’s 
inhabitants is to ensure that human beings are always 
central  to  our  decision-making.  Such  humanitarian 
policy  has  been  the  lodestar  of  my  leadership  of 
Panama for the past 39 months, as I have sought to build 
a  nation  where  justice  and  equality  prevail,  without 
17-29389
15/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
making  innocent  people  pay  the  price  or  causing 
unnecessary conflict.
Democracy  is  not  just  about  electing  Heads  of 
State in free and fair elections. Rather, it is about those 
of  us  who  are  elected  understanding  that  the  power 
bestowed  on  us  should  be  used  only  to  serve  those 
who elected us; about managing the wealth of the State 
with  transparency,  fairness  and  social  justice  for  the 
benefit of the people; and about leading our countries 
peacefully,  on  a  basis  of  dialogue  and  consensus.  In 
2015, in his opening remarks to the seventh Summit of 
the Americas, Pope Francis said,
“Panama’s geographic position in the centre of the 
American  continent,  making  it  the  meeting  point 
between  North  and  South,  between  the  Pacific 
and  Atlantic  Oceans,  is  surely  a  call,  pro  mundi 
beneficio,  to  generate  a  new  order  of  peace  and 
justice  and  to  promote  solidarity  and  cooperation 
while respecting the just autonomy of each nation.”
I  have  always  borne  in  mind  Panama’s  role  as 
a  facilitator  of  dialogue  and  understanding.  Ours  is 
a  country  of  unity  at  the  service  of  the  international 
community. We stand ready to cooperate as a strategic 
ally  and  to  contribute  our  resources  in  the  interest  of 
addressing the common problems afflicting the region 
and the world at large.
At the Summit of the Americas, which took place 
in Panama, there was a historic rapprochement between 
two countries that had held divergent positions for more 
than  half  a  century  —  Cuba  and  the  United  States. 
They began a frank conversation about putting an end 
to  their  estrangement.  As  we  near  the  next  Summit 
of  the  Americas,  in  Lima,  we  must  approach  it  with 
a  constructive  spirit  and  an  openness  to  dialogue  to 
analyse  the  problems  of  the  region  and  uphold  peace 
and unity across the Americas.
The Americas and the world are happy to see that 
Colombia  is  successfully  continuing  to  implement  its 
Peace  Agreement.  In  his  recent  visit,  Pope  Francis 
delivered an important message about the consolidation 
of  the  process  —  which  benefits  everyone,  not  just 
the  Colombian  people  —  that  we  must  accept  the 
mistakes  that  have  been  made,  correct  them  and 
seek reconciliation.
However,  our  continent  is  facing  a  problem  that 
transcends borders — the growth of drug production and 
trafficking. It is vital that the leaders of the Americas 
unite in joining forces to tackle that challenge, one that 
threatens the peace of our peoples, particularly in the 
northern triangle. We cannot allow drug trafficking to 
disrupt  the  peace  that  has  been  restored  at  such  cost 
in  Central  America  and  Colombia.  Drug  trafficking 
condemns  our  people 
to  poverty;  affects  State 
budgets; makes us invest resources in security instead 
of  education,  health,  housing  and 
transportation; 
challenges the authority of Governments; and subverts 
the loyalty of those whose duty it is to comply with and 
uphold the rule of law.
Panama  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  combating 
drug  trafficking  head-on.  We  will  dedicate  the  full 
force of our efforts and resources to helping the region 
to eliminate that scourge. Moreover, we appeal to the 
leaders and Heads of State of the countries that produce 
and  consume  drugs  to  support  us  in  this  fight.  Every 
dollar  generated  by  drug  trafficking  represents  death 
in our region.
The  political  crisis  in  Venezuela  is  having  a 
profound impact on the region. We must stop the clashes 
that  have  provoked  unnecessary  violence,  hurting  all 
Latin  Americans.  It  is  urgent  that  we  recognize  that 
to resolve the conflict, both sides must seek a path to 
understanding  and  agree  on  a  defined  road  map  for 
free  and  transparent  presidential  elections  in  2018.  It 
would be a grave error if the Government of Venezuela 
insisted  on  installing  a  one-party  political  model  by 
force. That would aggravate its social and humanitarian 
crisis, increasing migratory flows that could result in 
complex  situations  in  neighbouring  countries.  We 
should  all  stand  with  the  Venezuelan  people  to  help 
them overcome this crisis.
Our continent must emerge united from the Summit 
of the Americas in Lima if we are to combat inequality 
and  drug  trafficking  together.  In  that  regard,  Panama 
is willing to play a front-line role, building bridges of 
understanding  and  dialogue  that can  make  our  region 
stronger and more united. I call on the Heads of State 
of the Americas to go to Lima with that vision of unity 
so that we can ensure that the hemisphere makes steady 
progress towards development.
We live in a world that is being battered by acts of 
terrorism, natural disasters and organized crime. There 
is no time or space for us to waste effort fighting over 
temporary ideological differences. Countries must unite 
their  capacities  to  address  the  evils  affecting  peoples 
beyond  their  borders.  Panama  strongly  condemns  all 
16/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
acts of terrorism anywhere the world, which can never 
be justified.
growth  of  the  past  few  years,  we  are  improving  the 
living conditions of all Panamanians.
Today I respectfully call on the countries that are 
members  of  the  Security  Council  to  strengthen  their 
measures  and  decisions  promoting  sustainable  peace 
in places such as Syria and Iraq. I must also strongly 
condemn irresponsible leaders, such as those in North 
Korea, who seek to destabilize peaceful coexistence in 
the world.
Panama believes that a strong multilateral system 
can be used to achieve the objectives we set out in the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and we are 
ready to continue playing a leadership role. That is why 
we  support  the  Secretary-General’s  process  of  reform 
designed to make the United Nations more transparent, 
efficient  and  better  able  to  respond  to  the  needs  of  a 
world of more than 7 billion people. If we can share the 
wealth of our planet, no one will be left behind.
Those reforms must ensure that the United Nations 
unites us more effectively and connects Heads of State 
with  the  pain  of  people  suffering  from  war,  natural 
disasters and organized crime. Multilateral cooperation 
is vital to that process, which is not a question merely of 
economic resources but also of the transfer of capacity 
and  best  practices.  Middle-income  countries  such  as 
Panama can contribute to the transfer of knowledge and 
technology, generating tangible benefits for populations 
and contributing to peace.
Panama’s commitment to that path is unwavering. 
We  therefore  call  for  the  establishment  of  a  United 
Nations  regional  headquarters  in  our  country.  We 
are willing to build facilities for a centre for regional 
humanitarian assistance that will enable us to provide 
timely  support,  when  it is  needed,  to  countries  in  the 
region that are dealing with natural disasters, as we did 
recently with the air and maritime bridges bringing aid 
to countries affected by Hurricane Irma, which struck 
Cuba, the Caribbean and the United States.
As President of the Republic of Panama, I have two 
clear goals: to make politics a service and ensure that 
my  country  continues  as  a  functional  democracy.  We 
are recovering hundreds of millions of misappropriated 
dollars that belong to the people, and we are investing 
that  money  in  the  people,  using  the  State’s  resources 
to  benefit  all  Panamanians.  Thanks  to  the  honest 
Government  that  I  lead,  the  increased  revenues  from 
our  broadened  Canal  and  the  sustained  economic 
We have significantly increased the salaries of civil 
servants, police officers, educators, doctors and nurses. 
We have reviewed the money going into pensions and 
scholarships  and  strengthened  conditional  monetary 
assistance. We are also laying thousands of kilometres 
of  roads,  investing  in  major  basic  health  projects  and 
water-purifying plants, and building tens of thousands 
of houses for our poorest citizens, as well as modern, 
bilingual  schools,  sports  and  cultural  centres,  new 
metro lines and a modern mass-transport system.
We  are  working  towards  those  objectives  with 
a  sense  of  responsibility  and  transparency,  without 
increasing  any  taxes,  and  moving  forward  steadily 
towards fulfilling the Sustainable Development Goals. 
That  is  the  value  of  an  honest  Government,  which, 
bound  by  social  justice  and  equality  to  distribute  the 
riches  of  the  people,  represents  a  road  to  a  peaceful 
society,  a  decent  quality  of  life  and  a  fairer  world  in 
which we are all treated equally.
All human beings deserve a decent life, which takes 
everyone’s efforts to build and is achieved only when 
the basic needs of our citizens for food, shelter, health 
and  education  are  met.  That  is  why  it  is  important  to 
ensure that every citizen pays taxes to the State, as the 
working and professional classes do. It is Governments’ 
duty to take action against tax evasion, which affects 
the ability of the State to help the poorest and deepens 
inequality. Rulers must implement public policies and 
develop programmes that allow the State to distribute 
resources  equitably,  so  that  the  most  vulnerable  are 
equipped  with  the  tools  to  contribute  to  development 
and use resources sustainably.
Countries have to be accountable in the interests of 
achieving  transparency  in  the  administration  of  State 
resources. However, it is important to ensure that the 
misdeeds of the political classes and their supporters in 
business do not hurt innocent people. The fight against 
corruption is not measured by the numbers of those who 
are  prosecuted  and  convicted  by  the  judicial  system, 
but rather by the numbers of those who benefit from a 
transparent  administration  of  State  resources,  so  that 
they are recovered for the State’s use. That is important. 
Rulers  have  to  defend  their  countries’  economies  and 
the jobs and projects that benefit the people.
Panama is committed to the security and protection 
of  its  logistics  platforms  and  financial  systems.  We 
17-29389
17/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
continue to work responsibly to prevent illegal activities 
that  undermine  the  common  good.  In  a  world  that  is 
constantly  talking  about  justice,  we  Heads  of  State 
and Government must keep in mind that justice means 
giving  all  of  us  what  is  rightfully  ours.  Our  planet  is 
rich enough for all human beings to have a decent life. 
The  most  important  value  for  the  inhabitants  of  the 
Earth is peace. It is our responsibility to ensure that our 
actions are always aligned with the pursuit of that goal. 
May God bless us all and guide us in our work towards 
a better world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Panama 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Rwanda.
into 
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Rwanda,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the Republic 
of Rwanda, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Kagame: Every year, the United Nations 
channels billions of dollars in humanitarian assistance. 
It  also  sets  the  global  agenda  on  key  policy  issues 
from development to women’s rights, while providing 
a  platform  for  major  international  agreements.  Those 
are signs of an Organization that is both relevant and, 
in  many  cases,  effective.  And  yet  there  is  a  sense 
that  the  United  Nations  is  not  meeting  our  needs  and 
expectations. In that context, I would like to commend 
the Secretary-General, and to congratulate the President 
of the General Assembly, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, on the 
two  important  initiatives  that  the  Secretary-General 
championed  this  week  —  his  initiative  on  United 
Nations reform and his response to sexual exploitation 
and abuse.
Those steps go to the heart of the matter, which is 
the deficit of trust and accountability in the international 
system. To be truly effective in delivering a decent life 
for all, the United Nations must treat all the people it 
serves with impartiality and respect, and it must be a 
good  steward  of  the  funds  entrusted  to  it.  Abuse  and 
waste are therefore not a mere public-relations problem 
but an existential challenge that must be tackled head-
on.
The  Secretary-General  deserves  our  full  support 
in  his  efforts  to  make  the  United  Nations  not  only 
effective  but  transformational.  We  have  the  tools  and 
the  mandates  to  address  the  global  challenges  of  our 
day,  from  climate  change  to  peacebuilding  to  human 
equality  and  development.  Where  we  fall  short  is  in 
getting things done.
Institutional  reform  is  not  a  one-off  event  like 
applying a fresh coat of paint. The essence of reform is a 
mindset of constantly striving to improve performance 
and  delivery  and  holding  ourselves  responsible  for 
shortcomings and results. In that sense, the reform spirit 
that has started to take root in both the United Nations 
and  the  African  Union  is  encouraging,  and  Rwanda 
is  happy  to  be  associated  with  both.  This  positive 
momentum is also positioning the United Nations and 
the African Union to work more closely together.
Concrete  steps  can  be  taken  on  both  sides  to 
improve  the  quality  of  coordination  and  consultation. 
The African Union and the United Nations are already 
good  partners  in  peacekeeping,  and  Rwanda  is  happy 
and proud to have forces serving under both flags. But 
we can do much more and do it better.
Mr.  Rajaonarimampianina  Rakotoarimanana 
(Madagascar), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We also share the common objective of meeting the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  Africa’s  Agenda 
2063  targets,  and  of  continuing  to  enhance  women’s 
empowerment. Closer collaboration will help us bridge 
the growing digital divide through universal broadband 
access,  which  can  connect  our  people  to  networks  of 
knowledge and prosperity.
Canada  and  Rwanda, 
together  with  other 
stakeholders,  are  working  to  raise  awareness  of  the 
tremendous impact we can have right away by ratifying 
and  implementing  the  Kigali  Amendment  to  the 
Montreal  Protocol.  This  is  among  the  most  important 
actions  that  a  country  can  take  in  directly  tackling 
climate change and reaffirming its commitment to the 
Paris Agreement. Fewer than 15 additional ratifications 
18/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
are needed in order for the Kigali Amendment to come 
into force in 2019.
Our  world  is  facing  difficult  challenges,  but 
no  more  than  in  the  past.  Working  together  in  a 
constructive spirit, we can ensure for our children the 
future they deserve.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Rwanda  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Rwanda,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Horacio Manuel Cartes Jara, 
President of the Republic of Paraguay
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Paraguay.
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Horacio 
Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Paraguay, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Cartes  Jara  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  Paraguayan  people  and  the  Government 
of  Paraguay,  I  hope  that  under  the  presidency  of 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  the  General  Assembly  will 
have  great  success  in  fulfilling  the  purposes  of  the 
United Nations.
On behalf of the people and the Government of the 
Republic of Paraguay, I wish to express to the people 
and the Government of Mexico our solidarity with the 
victims of yesterday’s earthquake, whose epicentre was 
in Morelos state, and to extend our sincerest condolences 
to the families of the victims of the tragedy.
in  our  efforts  to  strike  a  reasonable  balance  between 
the  interests  of  all  States  and  to  build  a  democratic 
and  equitable  world  order,  while  developing  relations 
among sovereign, independent States based on respect 
and  trust  and  prioritizing  the  peaceful  coexistence 
whereby all nations can enjoy the same opportunities.
To  that  end,  we  need  the  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council, to work efficiently. We seek a more 
democratic,  transparent,  inclusive  and  representative 
Security Council that reflects the diversity of the States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  geopolitical 
realities of today’s world.
forum 
The  Organization  continues 
for 
to  be 
the  most 
important  universal 
tackling  global 
challenges.  Problems  such  as  poverty  and  inequality, 
climate  change, 
transnational  organized  crime, 
drug  trafficking  —  which  undermines  democratic 
institutions  —  and  terrorism,  among  others,  must  be 
dealt  with  collectively.  We  urge  all  stakeholders  to 
focus their efforts and resources on responding to these 
shared and pressing challenges faced by humankind.
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  reaffirms  its  firm 
commitment  to  implementing  the  provisions  of  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  encourages 
other States, particularly those that are most responsible 
for producing greenhouse gases, to take all necessary 
measures  to  save  our  planet  from  the  consequences 
of  global  warming.  In  Paraguay,  our  vision  of  social 
responsibility  is  behind  our  efforts  to  increase  our 
production of clean and renewable energy. We have two 
impressive  hydraoelectric  dams  —  Itaipu,  which  we 
share with Brazil, and Yacyreta, shared with Argentina. 
This year, Itaipu Binacional was incorporated into the 
UNESCO  World  Network  of  Biosphere  Reserves,  as 
was the Alto Paraná Atlantic forest.
My mandate as President of my country comes to 
an end in August 2018. This is my final address to the 
United  Nations,  and  I  would  like  to  mention  several 
improvements  that  we  have  made  since  I  took  office 
in 2013.
After four years as Head of the Government of the 
Republic of Paraguay, I have the honour of participating 
in the General Assembly with strengthened resolve to 
contribute  to  building  a  world  order  governed  by  the 
principles of justice, peace and solidarity among nations 
and  within  an  effective  framework  of  human  rights, 
State institutions and the rule of law. We must persist 
Today Paraguay is a full representative democracy 
with  a  true  separation  of  powers,  solid  electoral 
processes  and  a  fully  effective  rule  of  law.  We  have 
given  clear  signals  to  the  international  community, 
both publicly and privately, on our country’s improved 
potential  as  an  investment  vehicle,  in  the  area  of 
cooperation and with regard to treaties.
17-29389
19/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
Where  foreign  relations  and  Paraguay’s  role  in 
the world are concerned, our interactions have grown 
exponentially  through  visits  and  invitations  received 
as well as participation in international organizations. 
Over the past four years, our country has had official 
visits from His Holiness Pope Francis, former Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, His Holiness Patriarch Kirill of 
Moscow and all Rus’, as well as other top officials from 
multilateral  organizations  and  various  Heads  of  State 
and international eminent persons who have honoured 
us with their presence.
to 
efforts 
Paraguay  was  unanimously  admitted 
the 
Development Centre of the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development 
(OECD).  For  us, 
our  membership  of  that  highly  prestigious  global 
organization  is  an  unequivocal  sign  of  international 
recognition  of  our  Government’s 
and 
achievements  through  our  policies  of  good  practices 
and  institutional  robustness.  We  can  proudly  say  that 
Paraguay  is  a  member  of  that  select  OECD  group 
in  an  affirmation  of  the  international  community’s 
confidence  in  the  significant  reforms  undertaken  by 
our Government.
Today  we  are  members  of  the  World  Intellectual 
Property  Organization  Advisory  Committee  on 
Enforcement, following years of mistrust of our country 
regarding  respect  for  intellectual  property  rights.  We 
have  decided  to  take  on  additional  memberships  in 
international bodies in order to be part of discussions 
and  decision-making,  with  a  view  to  continually 
expanding  our  global  presence.  The  role  of  Paraguay 
in the world today transcends borders and continents.
Our priorities within the framework of the United 
Nations have been established in the Vienna Programme 
of Action for Landlocked Developing Countries for the 
Decade 2014-2024, an integral part of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. We therefore urge States, 
especially our trading partners and transit countries, to 
duly take those into account.
Regional 
integration  has  undeniable  benefits, 
especially when we work to achieve it while endeavouring 
to  reconcile  the  interests  of  all  stakeholders.  We  are 
therefore  working  in  the  Southern  Common  Market 
to  revitalize  economic  and  commercial  integration 
while also making progress on the social, employment, 
scientific  and  cultural  aspects  of  the  bloc,  which 
represents a very positive agenda.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sutainable  Development  is 
the  most  ambitious  intergovernmental  development 
project in the multilateral sphere. In order to properly 
implement  our  national  development  plan  through 
2030,  we  are  building  an  innovative,  participatory 
institutional  architecture  that  is  committed  to  the 
Agenda’s  Goals  and  targets.  I  am  proud  to  say  that, 
together  with  the  Presidents  of  our  Congress  and 
Supreme Court of Justice, I have publicly signed a joint 
cross-branch  declaration  that  recognizes  Paraguay’s 
absolute commitment to the terms of the 2030 Agenda 
and its Goals and targets. Paraguay has thus declared 
itself  in  favour  of  the  2030  Agenda  through  its  three 
State  branches,  an  event  previously  unheard  of  in 
our region.
During  these  past  four  years,  the  Administration 
I  lead  has  responded  justly  and  effectively  to  the 
needs  of  all  sectors  of  society.  When  we  first  came 
to  power,  in  August  2013,  we  established  three  main 
national  policies  —  poverty  reduction  through  social 
development;  inclusive  economic  growth;  and  the 
expansion  of  Paraguay’s  role  in  the  world.  As  we 
implemented those policies, we transformed a culture 
previously  marred  by  political  cronyism  and  bad 
practices  into  a  model  based  on  transparency  and 
compliance,  where  public  access  to  information  is 
guaranteed  and  more  opportunities  are  offered  to 
our  people.  Access  to  public  information  has  led  to 
unprecedented progress, and today we have instruments 
ensuring that public business is conducted in public.
We are undergoing an unprecedented transformation, 
and although it has triggered some concerns, reactions 
and resistance from those who were more comfortable 
with the former model, I can guarantee that it is closing 
the  door  on  such  evils  as  corruption,  which  delayed 
Paraguay’s economic and social development for many 
years.  Despite  regional  economic  problems,  we  have 
been  able  to  achieve  sustained  economic  growth,  and 
we  hope  to  continue  improving  our  ability  to  forge 
relationships throughout the world by being trustworthy 
and predictable. Paraguay’s economic growth in recent 
years  has  been  constant,  and  at  an  annual  average  of 
5.2 per cent is one of the highest in South America.
While  we  are  also  working  to  reduce  the  poverty 
rate, years of neglect in the past have made eradicating 
poverty  altogether  a  major  challenge.  Our  priorities 
have been focused on giving a strong impetus to social 
investment,  particularly  in  education,  so  that  people 
living  in  poverty  can  benefit  from  economic  growth 
20/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
and  to  help  reduce  inequality.  We  are  implementing
flagship  social-protection  programmes  such  as  the 
Tekoporã  conditional  cash-transfer  programme,  a 
school  meal  programme,  food  allowances  for  elderly 
adults living in poverty and the Sowing Opportunities 
poverty-reduction  programme.  In  addition,  we  are 
increasing our grants of scholarships and financial aid 
to  young  people  living  in  poverty,  in  the  firm  belief 
that  education  and  professional  training  for  young 
people  represent  the  best  possible  investment  for  the 
country’s future.
After  175  years,  the  Paraguayan  Government  is 
once  again  granting  postgraduate  scholarships  for 
study  abroad  at  the  world’s  best  universities,  with  a 
record investment of $42 million. Thanks to the Carlos 
Antonio  López  scholarships,  1,000  Paraguayans  from 
the country’s 17 departments and its capital are doing 
postgraduate  studies  in  50  of  the  world’s  200  most 
prestigious universities. Hundreds of them are teachers 
and 60 per cent are women under 30 years old. The first 
60  have  successfully  completed  their  studies  and  are 
returning  to  apply  their  knowledge  for  our  country’s 
benefit and development.
Another of our national strategic goals in combating 
poverty  focuses  on  housing  programmes  designed  to 
offer  citizens  decent  homes,  revive  the  economy  and 
create jobs. In the past four years we have worked hard, 
transparently  and  responsibly,  with  unprecedented 
results. For the first time in Paraguay’s history, by the 
end of its term a single Government will have delivered 
on  its  promise  of  more  than  30,000  public  housing 
units, 10 times more than any previous Administration, 
and even more valuable because they benefit thousands 
of  families  that  for  years  were  ignored  by  previous 
Governments  and  now  have  decent  homes  and  access 
to better conditions in which to thrive. We are building 
hope and opportunities so that families in Paraguay’s 
humblest communities — whether in poor urban areas, 
indigenous  regions  or  rural  villages  —  can  move 
forward.  We  are  transforming  our  country  through 
transparent and efficient efforts that enable us to make 
the  most  of  our  resources  while  reducing  expenses, 
eliminating  corruption  in  projects  and  improving 
construction quality through rigorous controls.
My Government encourages productive development 
through  responsible  investment.  We  give  priority  to 
infrastructure  projects 
improve  connectivity, 
both  nationally  and  with  neighbouring  countries.  In 
particular, investment in infrastructure is at its highest 
that 
in decades, and the scope and modernity of our new road 
construction is outstanding. We demand responsibility 
and  commitment  from  our  leaders  and  have  worked 
hard to achieve good standards of living for our people. 
Thanks  to  this  new  model  for  Government  efforts, 
our  country  is  becoming  more  efficient,  progressive 
and honest.
The Republic of Paraguay reaffirms its commitment 
to  international  peace  and  security  and  the  use  of 
peaceful  means  to  resolve  conflicts,  based  on  mutual 
cooperation  between  States.  Our  Constitution  bans 
weapons of mass destruction, and we therefore welcome 
the  recent  adoption  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  reaffirm  our  belief  that  the 
nuclear-disarmament process should be transparent and 
irreversible,  with  effective  verification  mechanisms 
based  on  a  universal,  legally  binding framework.  We 
reiterate  our  condemnation  of  the  nuclear  test  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in clear defiance 
and breach of its international obligations, constituting 
yet another provocation to the international community. 
We hope that the General Assembly will firmly reject 
such irrational behaviour, which threatens security and 
peace on a global scale.
The  Republic  of  Paraguay  is  deeply  concerned 
about the scourge of terrorism, which we condemn in 
any  shape  or  form.  The  fight  against  terrorism  must 
be  carried  out  within  a  framework  of  unconditional 
respect  for  the precepts  of  international  law,  through 
solid  cooperation  among  States.  We  will  continue  to 
collaborate  with  peacekeeping  operations  organized 
under the auspices of the United Nations, in the belief 
that  they  can  enable  us  to  achieve  the  purposes  and 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. My country is currently contributing military 
personnel, both women and men, to six peacekeeping 
missions, and invests in the training of its contingents 
at our peacekeeping operations training centre.
We also reaffirm our commitment to the promotion 
and  effective  protection  of  human  rights  throughout 
the world. We firmly believe that we should protect the 
dignity and rights of all people, without discrimination. 
We  urge  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  continue  to 
fulfil  its  functions  with  objectivity,  impartiality  and 
universality.  In  this  context,  I  should  not  omit  to 
mention a worrying issue in my region, which is that the 
situation in Venezuela needs urgent attention. I would 
like to reiterate a message of solidarity to the people of 
Venezuela, victims of political persecution and human 
17-29389
21/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
rights violations, in the hope that our brother nation can 
find a solution to its current democratic breakdown and 
deep crisis as soon as possible.
Through international cooperation, the Republic of 
China on Taiwan has long been engaged in cooperation 
programmes  related  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It 
supports  many  countries,  including  Paraguay.  Taiwan 
has  relevant  knowledge  and  experience  and  has 
contributed effectively to the international community. 
The  Government  of  Paraguay  once  again  urges  all 
Member States to identify appropriate ways to facilitate 
Taiwan’s participation in the mechanisms for meetings 
and activities of the United Nations system, so that its 
23 million inhabitants can exercise their responsibilities 
normally  as  global  citizens  and  establish  sustainable 
alliances with every country.
In  our  view,  Secretary-General  António  Guterres 
has  made  an  auspicious  start  at  the  helm  of  the 
United Nations, supported by his vast experience as a 
statesman. It will be up to the Heads of State of member 
countries during this session to ensure that it can be a 
starting point of a new era for the true universalization 
of  the  principles  guiding  the  functioning  of  the 
Organization, particularly so that its programmes and 
actions can reduce the enormous inequalities that still 
exist between countries and regions.
I reaffirm that my country will continue to give high 
priority to its participation in United Nations debates, 
in  our  belief  in  the  importance  of  the  Organization’s 
work  in  building  a  more  peaceful  and  just  world.  For 
our part, we will continue to work resolutely towards 
development  with 
inclusion,  creating 
conditions  for  prosperity  and  always  putting  people 
first. I would like to conclude with an exhortation from 
Pope Francis: “Let us never forget that authentic power 
is service.”
true  social 
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Horacio  Manuel  Cartes  Jara,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan 
Rouhani, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Rouhani (spoke in Farsi; interpretation 
provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Lajčák  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency of the General Assembly. I would also like 
to  congratulate  Secretary-General  Guterres  on  his 
appointment to his high office and to wish him every 
success in his crucial responsibilities.
Four  months  ago,  more 
than  41  million 
people  —  73  per  cent  of  the  total  of  Iran’s  eligible 
voters  —  came  to  the  polls  in  our  country’s  twelfth 
presidential  election  and  once  again  expressed 
confidence in my platform, which calls for moderation 
and respect for human rights, prosperity and economic 
revitalization at home, and for constructive engagement 
around the world. Their vote illustrated the maturity of 
the  electorate  in  a  society  that  has  been  experiencing 
free and democratic governance for only four decades.
Our  latest  election  was  not  merely  a  vote  for  a 
President. It represents a huge political investment on 
the part of our resilient people, who truly constitute our 
most reliable asset. Human and civil rights, along with 
a quest for justice and Islamic values, have been at the 
heart of the principal demands of the Iranian people for 
their more than 150 years of struggle, particularly during 
the Islamic revolution of 1979. In its first term, while 
pursuing nuclear negotiations internationally, at home 
my Government focused on discussing and articulating 
our  citizens’  rights,  resulting  in  the  promulgation 
of  a  Citizens’  Rights  Charter  and  its  adoption  for 
implementation,  thereby  meeting  the  demands  of  a 
people  who,  in  their  desire  to  restore  their  rights  and 
human dignity, first rose up against a dictatorial regime 
111  years  ago,  in  their  constitutional  revolution,  and 
again 39 years ago, in the Islamic revolution.
22/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
I  declare  here  in  this  Hall  that  moderation  is  the 
preferred and chosen path of the great Iranian people. 
Moderation  seeks  neither  isolation  nor  hegemony.  It 
implies  neither  indifference  nor  intransigence.  The 
path  of  moderation  is  the  path  of  peace.  That  peace 
is  a  just  and  inclusive  peace,  not  one  that  means 
peace  for  one  nation  and  war  and  turmoil  for  others. 
Moderation  is  freedom  and  democracy,  conducted 
in  an  inclusive  and  comprehensive  manner  that  does 
not  purport  to  promote  freedom  in  one  place  while 
supporting  dictators  elsewhere.  Moderation  is  the 
synergy  of  ideas,  not  a  dance  of  swords.  And  lastly, 
the  path  of  moderation  nurtures  beauty.  Exports  of 
deadly  weapons  are  not  beautiful.  Peace  is  beautiful. 
In  Iran,  we  strive  to  build  peace  and  promote  the 
human rights of peoples and nations. We never condone 
tyranny and we always defend those whose voices are 
not heard. But while we never threaten anyone, neither 
do  we  tolerate  threats  from  anyone.  Our  discourse  is 
based on dignity and respect, and we are unmoved by 
threats  and  intimidation.  We  believe  in  dialogue  and 
negotiation conducted on an equal footing and based on 
mutual respect.
In 
today’s  globalized  world,  peace,  security, 
stability and the progress of all nations are intertwined. 
We  cannot  see  a  rogue  and  racist  regime  trample  on 
the most basic rights of Palestinians while the usurpers 
of  their  land  enjoy  security.  No  one  can  aspire  to 
long-term  stability,  prosperity  and  development  while 
Muslims in Yemen, Syria, Iraq, Bahrain, Afghanistan, 
Myanmar and so many other places live in misery, war 
and poverty.
Throughout its history, Iran has been a bastion of 
tolerance for many religions and ethnicities. We are the 
same  people  who  rescued  the  Jews  from  Babylonian 
servitude,  opened  our  arms  to  welcome  Armenian 
Christians in our midst and created the Iranian cultural 
continent  with  a  unique  mix  of  diverse  religions  and 
ethnicities. I represent the same Iran that has historically 
assisted the oppressed. Centuries ago, we supported the 
rights of the Jewish people and today we are insisting 
on the restoration of the rights of the Palestinian people. 
Iran  is  still  the  same  country,  supporting  justice  and 
seeking tranquillity.
Today  we  are  on  the  front  lines  fighting  terror 
and  religious  extremism  in  the  Middle  East,  not  for 
sectarian or ethnic reasons but for ethical, humanitarian 
and  strategic  ones.  Iran  does  not  seek  to  restore  its 
ancient  empire,  impose  its  official  religion  on  others 
or export its revolution through the force of arms. We 
have  enough  confidence  in  the  depth  of  our  culture, 
the truth of our faith and the tenacity and longevity of 
our  revolution  that  we  will  never  seek  to  export  any 
of  them  in  the  way  that  neocolonialists  do  through 
the  heavy  boots  of  soldiers.  To  promote  our  culture, 
civilization,  religion  and  revolution,  we  enter  hearts 
and  engage  minds.  We  recite  our  poetry  and  engage 
in  discourse  on  our  philosophy.  Our  ambassadors  are 
our poets, mystics and philosophers. We have reached 
these shores of the Atlantic through Rumi and spread 
our influence all over Asia with Saadi. We have already 
captured the world through Hafez, so we are not in need 
of new conquests.
The  call  for  moderation  is  from  a  nation  that  has 
been committed to it. We do not preach moderation; we 
practice it, and the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
(JCPOA)  is  a  case  in  point.  The  deal  is  the  outcome 
of  two  years  of  intensive  multilateral  negotiations, 
overwhelmingly  applauded  by 
international 
community  and  endorsed  by  the  Security  Council 
through  resolution  2231  (2015).  As  such,  it  belongs 
to the entire international community, not just one or 
two  countries.  The  JCPOA  can  become  a  new  model 
for  global  interaction  based  on  mutual  constructive 
engagement among us all. We have opened our doors 
to  engagement  and  cooperation  and  concluded  scores 
of development agreements with advanced countries in 
both the East and the West.
the 
Unfortunately,  there  are  some  who  have  deprived 
themselves  of  that  unique  opportunity,  in  a  way  that 
amounts to imposing sanctions on themselves, and now 
they feel betrayed. We were not deceived, and neither 
did we cheat or deceive anyone else. We determined the 
extent of our nuclear programme ourselves. We never 
sought to achieve deterrence through nuclear weapons. 
We  have  immunized  ourselves  through  our  people’s 
knowledge  and,  more  importantly,  their  resilience. 
That  is  our  talent  and  our  approach.  Some  say  that 
they wanted to deprive Iran of nuclear weapons, but we 
have  always  vociferously  rejected  such  weapons.  We 
have  never  been  distressed  about  forgoing  an  option 
that we never actually sought. It is reprehensible that a 
rogue Zionist regime that threatens regional and global 
security with its nuclear arsenal and is not committed 
to  any  international  instrument  or  safeguard  has  the 
audacity to preach to peaceful nations.
Imagine  how  the  Middle  East  would  look  if  the 
JCPOA had not been concluded. Imagine that along with 
17-29389
23/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
civil wars, takfiri terror, humanitarian nightmares and 
complex sociopolitical crises in West Asia there was a 
manufactured  nuclear  crisis.  How  would  we  all  fare? 
I  declare  here  to  the  Assembly  that  while  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran will not be the first country to violate 
the agreement, it will respond decisively and resolutely 
to any violation of it by any party. It would be a great 
pity if it were to be destroyed by rogue newcomers to the 
world of politics, and the world would have lost a great 
opportunity. But such unfortunate behaviour will never 
halt Iran in its course of progress and advancement. By 
violating its international commitments, the new United 
States Administration only destroys its own credibility 
and undermines international confidence in negotiating 
with it or accepting its promises.
Four years ago in the Assembly, the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran  sponsored  the  initiative  of  resolution  68/127, 
“A  world  against  violence  and  violent  extremism”. 
We  consider  dialogue  and  negotiations  based  on  a 
positive-sum paradigm to be the only path to resolving 
global and regional crises. We have made a conscious 
decision  to  strengthen  relations  with  our  neighbours 
and  others  in  the  region,  as  well  as  to  enhance  our 
cooperation  with  all  friendly  countries.  We  cannot 
navigate the complex and dangerous challenges in this 
turbulent  transitional  global  phase  without  expanding 
interaction  and  exchanges  and 
institutionalizing 
dialogue  between  nations  and  States.  The  ignorant, 
absurd  and  hateful  rhetoric  filled  with  ridiculously 
baseless  allegations  that  we  heard  yesterday  in  this 
Hall  was  not  only  unfit  to  be  heard  at  the  United 
Nations — which was established to promote peace and 
respect between nations — but in fact contradicted the 
demands of the nations of this global Organization that 
it bring Governments together in the battle against war 
and terror.
I  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  defence  capabilities 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, including its missiles, 
are solely defensive deterrents for maintaining regional 
peace  and  stability  and  suppressing  the  adventurist 
tendencies  of  irrational  aspirants.  We  cannot  forget 
that  civilians  in  many  of  our  cities  became  the  target 
of  long-range  missile  attacks  by  Saddam  Hussein 
during his eight-year war of aggression against us. We 
will never allow our people to become victims of such 
catastrophic delusions again. Instability and extremist 
violence  have  only  been  exacerbated  in  our  region 
through  the  military  interventions  of  extra-regional 
actors  —  the  same  Powers  that  try  to  sell  ever  more 
of  their  deadly  weapons  to  other  States  by  accusing 
Iran of fomenting instability. I want to emphasize that 
foreign intervention and the imposition of alien wishes 
on the people of the region can only widen and deepen 
the  crises  in  our  region.  The  crises  in  Syria,  Yemen 
and  Bahrain  do  not  have  military  solutions  and  can 
be resolved only through an end to the hostilities and 
acceptance of the will and desires of their peoples. The 
United  States  Government  should  explain  to  its  own 
people  why,  after  spending  billions  of  dollars  of  the 
assets of the people of America and our region, it has 
brought  the  region  only  war,  misery,  poverty  and  the 
rise of terrorism and extremism rather than contributing 
to peace and stability.
In the past four years, Iran has demonstrated that its 
economy has unparalleled potential for expansion and 
growth. Economic sanctions not only have not hindered 
it, they have solidified the popular resolve to enhance 
domestic production. Iran’s achievement of the highest 
global  growth  rate  last  year  proved  that  its  economy 
has  the  potential  to  become  the  world’s  most  vibrant 
emerging  economy  within  the  next  20  years,  with  a 
trillion-dollar  growth  potential.  Our  strategic  choice 
for achieving such sustainable and balanced growth is 
an extensive network of global partnerships. We firmly 
believe that development and security can grow only if 
they grow together, and that common interests can bind 
us  regionally  and  globally  to  guarantee  both  regional 
and global security.
Iran, with the world’s largest gas and oil reserves, 
is  prepared  to  engage  in  long-term  cooperation  to 
advance global energy security. We are eager to expand 
international  transit  corridors  through  joint  ventures 
in  sea,  rail  and  road  infrastructure  projects.  Our 
achievements  in  enhancing  economic  infrastructures 
through  a  nation-wide  gas  pipeline,  a  national 
electricity grid and rail and road transport have made it 
possible for various industries to produce their goods at 
a lower cost, with easy access to national and regional 
markets. With our current friendly legal environment, 
many  foreign  investors  have  come  to  Iran,  leading 
to  an  ever-increasing  number  of  investments,  joint 
ventures  and  financing  agreements  in  multiple  fields. 
It  is  the  policy  of  my  Government  to  continue  to 
steadily  enhance  the  entrepreneurial  environment, 
rights,  consistently 
protect 
improve  corporate  governance  and  engage 
in  a 
robust  campaign  against  money-laundering  in  order 
to  enhance  a  legal  climate  conducive  to  business  and 
intellectual  property 
24/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
economic  investments  in  various  fields,  particularly 
knowledge-based enterprises.
The Iranian nation is resolutely determined to build 
a free and advanced Iran and participate in developing 
a secure and stable region based on ethics and respect 
for  international  law.  In  that  endeavour,  we  welcome 
the  participation  and  cooperation  of  all  investors, 
intellectuals  and  innovators  from  all  over  the  world. 
From  this  global  rostrum,  and  as  the  representative 
of the people of Iran, who are world-famous for their 
hospitality,  I  invite  all  who  seek  peace,  security  and 
progress  through  partnership  and  cooperation  among 
nations to visit Iran and join us in building this future 
of hope.
If we truly believe in our collective decision of four 
years ago in the General Assembly to work for a world 
against  violence  and  violent  extremism,  we  can  turn 
the discourse of imposition, unilateralism, intimidation 
and war into the logic of dialogue, synergy and peace, 
so  that  moderation  can  become  the  dominant  voice 
across the globe.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Rumen Radev, President of the 
Republic of Bulgaria
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr.  Rumen  Radev,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Bulgaria, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Rumen Radev, 
President of the Republic of Bulgaria, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Radev:  I  would  first  like  to  offer  my 
most sincere condolences to the people and Government 
of Mexico for yesterday’s devastating earthquake.
It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  address  this  forum.  I 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on 
his election to preside over the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session and wish him every success in 
his important mission.
This session is a special one for my country, since 
while it is still going on Bulgaria will hold the presidency 
of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union.  This  year  the 
general debate puts a special emphasis on our common 
effort to strive for peace and a decent life for all on a 
sustainable planet, thereby highlighting the importance 
of  prevention,  mediation,  sustainable  development, 
preservation of the environment and respect for human 
rights through a people-centred approach. The United 
Nations upholds our shared goals of peace and security, 
and development and human rights.
Conflicts  in  many  parts  of  the  world  continue 
to  undermine  international  peace  and  security  and 
the  fundamental  values  of  humankind.  Outbreaks 
of  violence  devastate  local  economies,  trigger  large 
movements  of  refugees  and  migrants,  and  spread 
diseases,  famine  and  immense  human  suffering  on  a 
massive scale. Children are usually the most adversely 
affected in any crisis situation. The root causes of armed 
conflicts should be addressed in a more systematic way 
by  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of 
law, improving the economic situation and promoting 
social inclusion.
Leaving  no  one  behind  and  reaching  the  farthest 
behind  first  are  not  simply  political  declarations 
meant  to  invigorate  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  If  we  are  to  transform  our  world  by 
lifting it out of poverty, we must fully implement the 
Sustainable Development Goals by promoting equality, 
inclusion and participation.
Protracted  conflicts  require  a  holistic  United 
Nations response, encompassing preventive diplomacy, 
mediation,  peacebuilding 
special 
political missions. That response is critical to restoring 
governance  and  stabilizing  political,  economic  and 
social conditions in crisis and post-conflict countries.
effective 
and 
Over  the  past  several  years  the  United  Nations 
peace and security architecture has benefited from three 
peace and security reviews that, together with the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, have provided a 
solid foundation for achieving peace and prosperity. In 
that regard, Bulgaria supports the surge in diplomacy 
for  peace,  which  places  prevention  as  an  overarching 
17-29389
25/27
A/72/PV.7 
20/09/2017
priority of the United Nations work and sets the stage 
for the necessary reforms to sustain peace.
and 
development 
Prevention  and  mediation  are  essential  means  for 
reducing  human  suffering,  including  in  addressing 
the  root  causes  of  forced  displacements  by  bringing 
humanitarian, 
peacebuilding 
efforts together. The situation in the Middle East and 
North  Africa  remains  of  deep  concern  and  should 
be  addressed  in  a  comprehensive  manner,  but  the 
international  community  should  not  be  distracted 
from the urgent need to revive the Middle East peace 
process. Bulgaria reaffirms its position that a two-State 
solution  formula  is  the  realistic,  just  and  lasting  way 
to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It is our belief 
that  a  solution  that  can  fulfil  the  aspirations  of  both 
sides can be achieved only through direct negotiations, 
with no conditions and in conformity with the relevant 
international obligations.
to 
Finding  a  political  solution 
the  ongoing 
conflict in Syria and implementing a credible political 
transition in the country will be essential to preserving 
the  sovereignty,  independence,  unity  and  territorial 
integrity  of  the  Syrian  State.  We  support  all  actions 
aimed  at  achieving  a  cessation  of  hostilities  as  soon 
as  possible  and  conducting  effective  and  constructive 
inter-Syrian negotiations in Geneva in order to achieve 
a  lasting  political  solution  to  the  crisis.  We  consider 
a  political  dialogue  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations to be the only way that can gradually improve 
the security situation in Syria and sustainably resolve 
the humanitarian crisis.
Another source of deep concern to my country is 
the  situation  in  eastern  Ukraine,  which,  regrettably, 
remains  highly  volatile  despite  periodic  ceasefire 
agreements. We reiterate our call for the swift and full 
implementation of the Minsk agreements, to which there 
is  no  viable  alternative.  We  consistently  support  the 
activity of multilateral formats such as the Normandy 
Four and the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in  Europe  Trilateral  Contact  Group,  considering  their 
role  in  advancing  the  political  and  diplomatic  efforts 
for a peaceful settlement of the conflict to be key.
Bulgaria  is  fully  committed  to  the  peace  and 
stabilization  process  in  Afghanistan  and  considers 
reconciliation  a  major  prerequisite  for  stability  and 
sustainable  development  in  Afghanistan  and  beyond. 
We  encourage  the  National  Unity  Government  to 
continue  with  needed  reforms  in  key  areas,  such  as 
good  governance,  the  rule  of  law,  a  credible  electoral 
process,  combating  corruption  and  narcotics,  and 
tackling gender and social issues.
Disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control 
are  among  the  main  pillars  of  international  security 
and  therefore  represent  tangible  aspects  of  the  effort 
to achieve peace and a decent life. Bulgaria reiterates 
its commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  the  cornerstone  of  the  nuclear 
non-proliferation regime, as well as to the objective of 
attaining  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  That  goal 
is  achievable  only  through  the  participation  of  all 
States, and the nuclear-weapon States in particular. We 
should aim at feasible but universal measures that will 
gradually and irreversibly lead to the final objective of 
a  world  without  nuclear  weapons.  The  next  two  steps 
in  that  direction  could  be  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and  the  start 
of negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty at the 
Conference on Disarmament in Geneva.
The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on Iran’s 
nuclear programme, concluded in July 2015, continues 
to  be  historically  significant.  Its  full  implementation 
is extremely important to regional and global stability, 
and my country reiterates its full support for it.
Bulgaria  categorically  condemns 
the  repeated 
nuclear  tests  and  missile  launches  by  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which  have  led  to  a 
further  escalation  of  tensions  in  the  region  and  are 
undermining  world  peace  and  security.  We  call  on 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  end  its 
nuclear  and  ballistic  programmes  once  and  for  all  in 
a complete, irreversible and verifiable manner, and to 
engage in constructive dialogue with the international 
community. We reiterate our commitment to a peaceful, 
diplomatic and political solution to the situation.
The recent terrorist attacks are tragic reminders of 
the scale of the challenge ahead. Bulgaria shares the view 
that the newly established Office of Counter-Terrorism 
marks  a  milestone  in  the  efforts  to  improve  United 
Nations efficiency in fighting terrorism by supporting 
the  balanced  implementation  of  the  2006  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy, strengthening coordination 
among the relevant United Nations agencies, funds and 
programmes, as well as promoting preventive measures 
that address the drivers of extremism.
Bulgaria 
the 
unprecedented  scale  of  organized  looting  of  cultural 
concerned 
is 
deeply 
about 
26/27 
17-29389
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.7
property  in  Iraq,  Syria,  Libya  and  other  countries  in 
conflict  or  post-conflict  situations.  We  condemn  the 
illicit  trafficking  and  illegal  trade  in  cultural  objects 
as a tactic of war and a source of profits for financing 
terrorism. It is a threat that requires a global response. 
A  number  of  legal  instruments  and  resolutions  have 
been  adopted  by  UNESCO,  the  United  Nations,  the 
European  Parliament  and  others.  We  have  laid  the 
legal foundations and it is our common duty to ensure 
their  full  implementation.  The  Antiquities  Coalition, 
UNESCO’s  #Unite4Heritage  social-media  campaign 
and  other  activities  epitomize  a  very  positive  global 
trend for action aimed at the preservation and protection 
of the world’s cultural heritage.
International  migration  is  a  global  phenomenon, 
and  only  through  joint  efforts  such  as  the  global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration can we 
ensure  a  balanced  approach  that  includes  respect  for 
international  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  as 
well as effective border management and re-admission. 
States have the right and responsibility to manage and 
control their borders as a central element of their national 
security.  Strict  border  controls  are  vitally  important, 
particularly  in  the  context  of  preventing  irregular 
migration  and  eradicating  human  trafficking.  For 
Bulgaria, the top priority is the effective management 
and  control  of  the  European  Union’s  external  border, 
enabling free movement within the European Union to 
function smoothly.
Climate  change  continues  to  represent  one  of 
the  biggest  challenges  of  our  time.  Not  only  is  it  a 
threat  to  our  countries’  well-being,  it  also  poses  a 
security  risk  to  many  of  them.  Bulgaria  stands  by  its 
obligations under the Paris Climate Change Agreement, 
and  believes  that  only  a  universal  approach  to  its 
implementation  can  achieve  the  goals  of  the  United 
Nations climate-change agenda.
Bulgaria  is  strongly  committed  to  promoting 
human  rights  and  is  actively  involved  in  a  number 
of  intergovernmental  processes  dedicated  to  global 
advancement of the human rights agenda. As co-Chair 
of the Group of Friends for Children and the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  at  the  United  Nations,  Bulgaria 
strongly  advocates  for  integrating  children’s  rights 
into  all  major  intergovernmental  processes,  since 
children  are  the  real  agents  of  positive  social  change. 
As President of the Conference of States Parties to the 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
for  the  period  2017-2018,  Bulgaria  actively  promotes 
the  full  inclusion  and  participation  of  persons  with 
disabilities on an equal basis with others.
Bulgaria  is  determined  to  further  contribute  to 
promoting  human  rights  internationally  as  a  member 
of the Human Rights Council for the period 2019-2021, 
and is relying on its partners’ valuable support for its 
candidacy. In the past few decades, the United Nations 
has  taken  crucial  steps  to  advance  gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment.  Those  efforts  should  be 
further strengthened in order to achieve tangible results 
for women and girls by eliminating all forms of gender-
based  violence  and  discrimination.  Ensuring  equal 
rights  for  women  and  men  should  be  an  integral  part 
of  everyday  policies  in  all  spheres  of  life.  Promoting 
equality,  countering  discrimination  and  ensuring 
respect  for  human  rights  are  key  to  achieving  lasting 
peace and sustainable development, and we believe that 
the protection of human rights should be at the centre of 
all actions undertaken by the United Nations.
the  greatest 
The world is currently facing enormous challenges, 
perhaps 
that  humankind  has  ever 
encountered, and we, the Member States of the United 
Nations,  must  provide  solutions  to  them.  It  is  time  to 
take action.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Bulgaria for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Rumen  Radev,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Bulgaria,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 12.05 p.m.
17-29389
27/27
