United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
27th plenary meeting
Monday, 2 October 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 107 (continued)
Crime prevention and criminal justice
High-level meeting of the General Assembly on 
the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons
The Acting President: Before we proceed, I would 
like to remind all speakers to limit their statements to 
three minutes when speaking in their national capacity, 
as  stipulated  in  resolution  71/287.  As  members  will 
recall, in its resolution 71/323, of 8 September 2017, the 
General Assembly called for strict adherence by each 
speaker to the time limits in the Assembly, particularly 
during high-level meetings. This will enable maximum 
participation  within  the  limited  time  available  for 
the  meeting.  Participants  with  longer  statements  are 
encouraged to read a shorter version of their text and 
to  submit  their  full  statements  to  the  Secretariat  for 
posting on the PaperSmart portal.
Also in accordance with resolution 71/323, the “all 
protocol observed” principle, whereby participants are 
encouraged,  in  the  interest  of  saving  time,  to  refrain 
from the listing of standard protocol expressions during 
their  statements,  is  recommended.  In  the  light  of  the 
given  time  frame,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  speakers 
to  deliver  their  statements  at  a  normal  speed  so  that 
interpretation  may  be  provided  properly.  To  assist 
speakers  in  managing  their  time,  a  light  system  has 
been installed at the speaker’s rostrum. May I appeal to 
all speakers for their cooperation in observing the time 
limit of their statements, so that all those inscribed can  
be heard in a timely manner.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  deputy  Chair  of  the 
delegation of Ethiopia.
Ms.  Hailu  (Ethiopia):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
thanking  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening this high-level meeting on an important issue. 
Ethiopia welcomes the Assembly’s unanimous adoption 
of  the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1).
Poverty, climate change, the level of development 
among  States  and  societies,  different  standards  of 
living,  the  income  inequality  that  prevails  in  many 
countries, as well as conflict, are all factors that increase 
the  vulnerability  of  people  to  human  trafficking.  For 
instance,  migrants  who  cross  international  borders  in 
search of a better life may become victims of human-
trafficking  and 
smuggling  networks.  Similarly, 
refugees who already find themselves in a vulnerable 
situation  due  to  a  lack  of  durable  solutions,  including 
those  who  engage  in  secondary  movements,  become 
prey to traffickers and smugglers.
Victims of trafficking continue to face unimaginable
and often fatal dangers along their journeys, owing to 
the limited opportunities for legal migration and durable 
solutions. They continue to face various human rights 
violations,  including  violations  of  their  labour  rights 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-30366 (E)
*1730366*
A/72/PV.27 
02/10/2017
and  multiple  forms  of  discrimination  in  transit  and 
destination  countries.  All  of  these  challenges  require 
a  comprehensive  and  holistic  response  that  could  be 
based on the three following pillars.
trafficking 
The first would address the root causes of trafficking 
in persons, such as poverty, unemployment and conflict. 
This  approach  requires  States  to  take  concrete  steps 
to  design  and  implement  projects  tailored  to  specific 
communities  affected  by 
in  persons, 
contributing to their economic and social development 
and involving relevant development actors. As refugees 
are the group most vulnerable to trafficking in persons, 
this approach also requires us to find durable solutions 
to their particular situations. That could be achieved by 
enhancing support to countries hosting large numbers 
of  refugees,  based  on  the  principles  of  international 
cooperation  and 
responsibility  sharing,  and  by 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  refugee  camps  to  offer 
skills training and income-generating activities.
The second pillar would create interim frameworks 
for  international  protection,  humanitarian  assistance 
and  efforts  to  address  the  needs  of  victims  of 
trafficking.  As  such,  the  provision  of  lifesaving 
humanitarian  assistance  and  basic  necessities 
to 
victims  of  trafficking  in  countries  of  transit  and 
destination is critical. In this context, maintaining the 
capacity  to  respond  to  humanitarian  emergencies  and 
strengthening  international  assistance  to  victims  of 
trafficking remains central.
The  third  pillar  would  create  safe,  orderly  and 
legal  pathways  by  adopting  a  rights-based  approach 
that  ensures  the  protection  of  victims  of  trafficking 
in  persons  in  transit  and  destination  countries.  This 
approach  would  require  stronger  cooperation  among 
Member  States,  as  underscored  by  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  opening  statement  on  Wednesday  (see 
A/72/PV.24).
We can build on existing multilateral and bilateral 
frameworks, including within the context of the United 
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized 
Crime and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish 
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, 
and  on  resolution  72/1,  in  order  to  foster  enhanced 
cooperation in preventing and suppressing trafficking 
in  persons,  bring  perpetrators  to  justice  and  provide 
support to victims. Building on existing frameworks to 
address  trafficking  in  persons,  including  through  the 
political  declaration  adopted  on  Wednesday,  will  also 
be necessary if we are to fill gaps in the global compact 
for safe, orderly and regular migration expected to be 
adopted next year.
In  our  view,  these  three  pillars  will  enable  the 
international  community  to  respond  to  trafficking 
in  persons  in  a  comprehensive  and  holistic  manner. 
I  would  therefore  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming 
our  commitment  to  redoubling  our  efforts  aimed 
at  combating  trafficking  in  persons  based  on  these 
three pillars and within the context of resolution 72/1 
and  our  obligations  under  various  multilateral  and 
bilateral frameworks.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
types  of 
Mr. Ibragimov (Uzbekistan): I would first like to 
commend  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening this important and timely high-level meeting.
In  today’s  world,  human  trafficking  is  one  of  the 
most  dangerous 
transnational  organized 
crime.  It  continues  to  remain  a  serious  challenge  for 
the entire international community. In Uzbekistan, we 
are addressing this phenomenon at the State level. For 
example, in 2008, in order to take effective measures 
to prevent and combat human trafficking, we adopted a 
national law on countering human trafficking. Pursuant 
to  this  legislation,  our  President  signed  a  decree  on 
measures to improve the effectiveness of our efforts to 
combat human trafficking.
To  assist  in  coordinating  the  activities  of  the 
departments  involved  in  the  fight  against  human 
trafficking,  we  created  a  national 
inter-agency 
commission on combating human trafficking, consisting 
of  our  Heads  of  State  and  Government,  agencies  and 
public  organizations,  ministries  and  departments,  a 
women’s  committee,  our  national  centre  for  human 
rights, a parliamentary commissioner for human rights 
or ombudsman, representatives of our youth union and a 
number of other non-governmental organizations. Our 
Prosecutor-General  chairs  the  commission,  since  the 
Office of the Prosecutor-General has been assigned the 
task of coordinating the activities of relevant agencies 
in the fight against human trafficking.
In the framework of implementing Uzbekistan’s law 
on countering human trafficking, the Cabinet adopted 
a  decree  in  2008  forming  a  national  rehabilitation 
centre  for  assisting  and  protecting  victims  of  human 
trafficking,  which  now  plays  an  important  role  in 
2/10 
17-30366
02/10/2017 
A/72/PV.27
assisting  victims  of  human  trafficking  in  their  return 
to normal life.
us  of  how  our  failure  to  act  all  but  perpetuates  the 
impunity of traffickers and exploiters.
Illegal migration has recently become another acute 
global  problem  associated  with  human  trafficking, 
From  Uzbekistan’s  perspective,  an  effective  way  to 
prevent illegal migration for overseas employment is to 
increase citizens’ awareness of potential difficulties in 
migration by explaining accountability for violations of 
the labour, tax, customs, passport and visa regulations 
of the countries where potential victims plan to reside. 
We have also launched a wide-ranging media campaign 
to  increase  public  awareness  not  only  of  the  dangers 
of human trafficking but also of the specific effects of 
crimes related to human trafficking and their negative 
consequences.  In  cases  of  the  illegal  exploitation  of 
persons  for  labour  purposes,  for  example,  criminal 
proceedings  are  instituted  against  the  individuals 
directly  involved  in  this  form  of  human  trafficking. 
In  addition,  Uzbekistan  is  a  signatory  to  major 
international conventions on combating illegal human 
trafficking, protecting its victims and punishing those 
who are involved in this criminal activity.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
the  Government  of  Uzbekistan  has  been  consistent 
in  its  approach  to  combating  human  trafficking.  We 
therefore  remain  committed 
to  cooperating  with 
the  United  Nations,  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development, 
International 
Labour Organization and other international structures 
and parties through active participation in joint projects 
aimed at preventing human trafficking and protecting 
its victims.
the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Chair of the delegation of Belize.
Ms.  Young  (Belize):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
expressing  my  delegation’s  deep  appreciation 
to 
Ms. Grizelda Grootboom, whose strength and courage 
in  standing  before  the  world  and  sharing  a  story  that 
she  would  no  doubt  rather  banish  from  than  burnish 
in  her  memory  is  unfathomable  (see  A/72/PV.24). 
But her story must be told, lest we forget that human 
beings no different from any of us in this Hall and no 
different from our own children are today being made 
to suffer the most intolerable indignity and inhumanity, 
something that should have been consigned to history 
when slavery was abolished more than a century and a 
half  ago.  Grizelda’s  story  tells  us  of  a  human  being’s 
inherent  vulnerability  and  society’s  blind  eye.  It  tells 
In  Belize,  we  have  a  low  incidence  of  cases  of 
human  trafficking  but  high  incidences  of  human 
smuggling  and  commercial  sex  work,  both  of  which 
promote vulnerability. For this reason, we have adopted 
legislation  and  a  national  plan  of  action  to  combat 
trafficking.  Our  national  approach  is  multi-pronged 
and  victim-centric,  focusing  first  on  prevention  and 
capacity-building,  on  understanding  the  context  in 
which  trafficking  occurs  or  might  occur,  and  on  how 
to prevent it through education and public awareness. 
Secondly,  it  focuses  on  how  to  protect  victims  and 
ensure their safety, and thirdly, on prosecution and how 
to ensure that justice is served. Fourthly, it focuses on 
partnerships and how to optimize our efforts through 
local, regional and international partnerships. Through 
increased  cooperation,  Belize  hopes  to  complement 
these  efforts  with  long-term  assistance  for  victims, 
advanced  training  for  investigators,  the  establishment 
of  specialized 
investigative  units  and  dedicated 
prosecutors  and  judges,  and  the  implementation  of  a 
fast-track system for human-trafficking cases.
All  of  us  here  today  are  committed  to  combating 
trafficking,  but  we  have  not  done  enough.  There  are 
tens of millions of victims whose stories have yet to be 
told, which is a blight on humankind and an indictment 
of  us  all.  I  stand  here  to  add  my  country’s  voice  to 
those of all victims and survivors. Belize reaffirms its 
unwavering commitment to the United Nations Global 
Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We 
fully  support  the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration 
(resolution  72/1),  which  strengthens  our  resolve  to 
vanquish  this  form  of  modern-day  slavery  once  and 
for all.
To echo Grizelda’s words, we cannot act on paper 
alone;  human  trafficking  must  be  a  real  priority.  We 
must  match  our  resolve  by  delivering  equally  on  the 
necessary resources and the widest cooperation at the 
national, regional and international levels. For Belize, 
combating  trafficking  is  an  absolute  moral  necessity, 
and  we  will  make  every  effort  to  triumph  over  this 
heinous crime.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the Chair of the delegation of the Federal Democratic 
Republic of Nepal.
Mr. Bhattarai (Nepal): My delegation commends 
and  appreciates  the  initiative  of  the  President  of  the 
17-30366
3/10
A/72/PV.27 
02/10/2017
General Assembly in convening this high-level meeting 
on the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons.  We  believe 
that  the  political  declaration  that  we  adopted  late 
last  week  (resolution  72/1)  should  provide  renewed 
momentum  for  translating  the  Global  Plan  of  Action 
into reality without delay.
The heinous crime of human trafficking continues 
to taint our civilizations. No country — large or small, 
rich or poor, whether of origin, transit or destination — is 
immune to what has now grown to be a global menace. 
Poverty,  discrimination,  disasters,  false  dreams  of 
success,  empty  promises  made  by  unscrupulous 
operators,  and  forced  migratory  movements,  among 
other 
it  worse. 
Thousands  of  young  boys  and  girls  in  our  country, 
especially those from rural Nepal, seeking jobs in cities 
and foreign countries, are prone to trafficking. Heart-
wrenching  stories  of  young  women  and  girls  being 
trafficked abound, owing mainly to poverty, ignorance 
and temptation on their part, as well as inhuman greed 
on the part of traffickers.
increasingly  making 
things,  are 
Nepal has put in place strong legal and institutional 
measures  at  the  national  level  to  curb  such  crimes. 
Our  efforts  to  address  the  root  causes  of  human 
trafficking are focused on the principles of prevention, 
protection,  prosecution  and  partnership,  with  due 
attention being paid to both the push and pull factors 
of  human  trafficking.  The  Constitution  of  Nepal  of 
2015 guarantees the right to be free from exploitation 
and bars human trafficking, forced and bonded labour. 
These serious crimes are punishable under the laws of 
Nepal.  The  Constitution  also  ensures  legal  remedies 
and  compensation  for  the  victims  of  slavery,  bonded 
labour, trafficking and child labour.
Back in 2000, Nepal was the first country in South 
Asia to launch a national plan of action against trafficking 
in women and children. At the regional level, Nepal is 
a  party  to  the  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional 
Cooperation Convention on Preventing and Combating 
Trafficking in Women and Children. At the global level, 
Nepal is a State party to 24 international human rights 
conventions,  including  seven  of  eight  fundamental 
International  Labour  Organization  conventions,  most 
importantly those relating to protection of the victims 
of slavery and human trafficking.
I want to conclude by underscoring three specific 
points as part of our way forward in implementing the 
Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
First, all Governments, international organizations, 
businesses and academic and philanthropic organizations 
should join hands to fight this multidimensional crime, 
focusing  on  its  root  causes.  Nepal  has  a  number  of 
dedicated  and  credible  institutions  that  can  do  much 
more if their capacity is strengthened further. The fact 
is that capacity-building at the local and national level 
is urgent and critical.
Secondly, the growing use of social media to tempt 
unsuspecting  men,  women  and  children  into  being 
trafficked  should  be  dealt  with  head  on.  To  do  this 
and  to  curb  tech-savvy  traffickers,  we  should  put  in 
place additional security measures, including capacity-
building and real-time information-sharing. Partnership 
that helps to build capacity is a must in that regard.
Thirdly, as was underlined by Nepal at the recent 
high-level  meetings,  the  importance  of  investing  in 
education and raising people’s awareness should come 
into  sharp  focus  through  our  concerted  efforts  in 
partnership  with  United  Nations  agencies  and  civil-
society  organizations.  Increased  engagement  on  the 
part of communities, local health workers, teachers and 
mothers’ groups, among others, is an absolute necessity 
if we are to prevent these crimes, bring perpetrators to 
justice and ensure that the victims are compensated and 
reintegrated with dignity so that they can become fully 
productive  members  of  society.  All  of  these  efforts 
will  directly  contribute  to  attaining  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals within the stipulated time frame.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly resolution 48/265 of 24 August 1994, I call 
on the observer for the Sovereign Order of Malta.
Mr.  De  Rojas  (Sovereign  Order  of  Malta):  I  am 
delivering this statement on behalf of our Ambassador-
at-Large for Monitoring and Combating Trafficking in 
Persons, Ambassador Michel Veuthey, who was here all 
of last week. He was supposed to speak on Thursday, 
but unfortunately had to return to our headquarters.
(spoke in French)
The Sovereign Order of Malta would like to thank 
the President for giving us the opportunity to speak at 
this  high-level  meeting  on  such  a  major  issue.  Since 
its  founding  900  years  ago,  the  mission  of  the  Order 
of  Malta,  a  sovereign  entity  in  public  international 
4/10 
17-30366
02/10/2017 
A/72/PV.27
law, has been to help vulnerable people. The Order of 
Malta  now  supports  more  than  2,000  medical,  social 
and humanitarian projects in more than 120 countries, 
regardless  of  religion,  ethnicity  or  nationality.  We 
reaffirm  the  commitment  of  the  Order  of  Malta  to 
helping  reduce  the  vulnerability  of  migrants  and 
refugees and to protecting them, particularly victims of 
human trafficking.
The  Order  of  Malta  will  strengthen  its  efforts 
by  using  its  diplomatic  network,  both  multilaterally 
and  bilaterally, 
in  106 
countries.  In  addition,  we  will  increase  the  social 
services  and  humanitarian  actions  of  our  national 
associations and our global humanitarian organization, 
Malteser International.
its  Ambassadors 
through 
The Order of Malta will continue to listen to other 
actors and learn from their best practices. We are open 
to  cooperating  with  Governments  and  civil  society 
to  help  better  protect  and  rehabilitate  the  victims  of 
contemporary slavery.
The President took the Chair.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  ask  the  following 
three questions. First, how can we better use the values 
of  solidarity  and  respect  for  human  life  to  strengthen 
the  legal  instruments  of  national  and  international 
law — human rights, labour law, refugee law and the 
international  humanitarian  law  applicable  in  armed 
conflicts, in order to end human trafficking? Secondly, 
how can we better highlight and share the contribution 
of  faith-based  organizations  that  protect  and  assist 
victims  of  trafficking  in  human  beings  nationally 
and internationally? Thirdly, how are we going to use 
next  year’s  seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  to  highlight  the  plight 
of  victims  of  human  trafficking  and  the  urgent  need 
for States and civil society to assist and protect them, 
in accordance with the United Nations Global Plan of 
Action against Trafficking in Persons?
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 
Assembly  resolution  56/90  of  12  December  2001,  I 
call on the observer of the International Development 
Law Organization.
Ms.  Arenas  Licea  (International  Development 
Law  Organization):  The  International  Development 
Law  Organization  (IDLO)  welcomes  this  high-level 
meeting  and  the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration 
(resolution 72/1).
As  the  only  intergovernmental  organization  with 
an  exclusive  mandate  to  advance  the  rule  of  law  and 
access to justice globally in the pursuit of sustainable 
development, our work is firmly focused on combating 
the underlying factors that make people vulnerable to 
trafficking, such as inequality, gender discrimination, 
social exclusion and marginalization.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
particularly  in  Goal  16,  provides  us  with  a  road  map 
for building a world in which the conditions that often 
breed  trafficking  may  be  eradicated.  Trafficking  in 
persons is a heinous crime and antithetical to the rule 
of  law.  It  is  also  a  criminal  act.  Although  trafficking 
is  outlawed  by  several  international  treaties  and 
conventions and despite the fact that Governments have 
made progress in passing relevant national legislation, 
much  remains  to  be  done  to  strengthen  existing  legal 
frameworks so as to ensure that the tools exist to pursue 
criminal charges. As part of our contribution towards 
preventing trafficking, the IDLO has provided technical 
assistance  in  the  review  and  improvement  of  national 
legislation in line with international standards, created 
national  anti-trafficking  strategies  and  supported 
their implementation.
A  strong,  independent  judiciary,  together  with 
properly 
trained  police,  prosecutors  and  border 
officials,  backed  by  laws  and  regulations  in  line  with 
international  obligations,  means  that  well-established 
institutions  will  be  able  to  bring  those  guilty  of 
trafficking  to  justice.  Developing  the  capacity  of 
legal  and  justice  systems  is  critical  for  us  to  be  able 
to  effectively  tackle  trafficking  in  persons.  However, 
institutions are not enough. People must be made aware 
of their rights in order to be able to claim them. That is 
why, alongside its capacity-development programmes, 
the IDLO also promotes legal-empowerment strategies 
and seeks to ensure that women, poor people, migrants 
and other marginalized groups can gain access to legal 
services, including legal aid. These are key ingredients 
for both prevention and protection.
Human trafficking continues to exploit millions of 
victims, the majority of whom are women and girls. We 
need to take a gender-centred approach when making 
interventions to tackle trafficking. Any discussion on 
women and girl survivors of trafficking must take into 
account the inequality and vulnerability that are often 
at the root of the problem. We cannot effectively protect 
women and girls from trafficking if we are not ready 
to combat gender discrimination globally and if we are 
17-30366
5/10
A/72/PV.27 
02/10/2017
not willing to work to shatter the power structures that 
perpetuate this global challenge. Ultimately, trafficking 
is a business that deals in human suffering.
Trafficking  is  a  cross-border,  global  problem  that 
requires global action. Let us all unite to work together 
to end it.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 
Assembly  resolution  51/1  of  15  October  1996,  I 
call  on  the  observer  of  the  International  Criminal 
Police Organization.
Ms.  Neugebauer  (International  Criminal  Police 
Organization): I am happy to represent the International 
Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) at today’s 
high-level meeting on the appraisal of the Global Plan of 
Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. INTERPOL 
is pleased to have been acknowledged in the political 
declaration (resolution 72/1) as an important contributor 
to combating this global phenomenon.
As the Assembly is aware, trafficking in persons is 
a crime that affects all regions and all countries in the 
world. It has many different faces. Member States can 
be affected as countries of origin, transit or destination. 
Although  trafficking  in  persons  takes  such  varied 
forms, 
law-enforcement  cooperation 
remains key to tackling any and all of them.
international 
As the only global police organization, INTERPOL, 
with its 192 member States, is ideally situated to help 
its  members  disrupt  cross-border  criminal  networks. 
INTERPOL  has  three  major  programme  strategies: 
counter-terrorism, fighting cybercrime and combating 
organized  and  emerging  crime.  Our  strategy  against 
organized  and  emerging  crime  clearly  establishes 
fighting  human  trafficking  as  one  of  INTERPOL’s 
greatest  commitments  and  aims  to  support  member 
States 
evolving 
phenomenon. INTERPOL has a special unit on human 
trafficking and child exploitation that provides training 
and  operational  support  to  law-enforcement  officers 
with a view to effectively tackling such phenomena.
combating 
constantly 
this 
in 
is  also  key 
communication 
Border  protection 
to  effectively 
combating  human  trafficking.  Through  INTERPOL’s 
secure 
I-24/7,  which 
facilitates  communication  between  law-enforcement 
authorities around the globe in real time, all of our tools 
and databases can be accessed by them. The stolen and 
lost travel document database is particularly effective 
when it comes to countering trafficking in persons. It 
network, 
currently lists more than 70 million travel documents 
that  have  been  reported  by  175  countries.  That  data 
is readily available, but even the most comprehensive 
database  is  only  truly  effective  if  it  is  systematically 
used by front-line officers. We therefore encourage our 
member  States  to  extend  access  to  relevant  databases 
to  border-control  officers  who  need  the  relevant 
information in order to make the right decision at the 
right moment. Let me demonstrate the effectiveness of 
our databases through an example: in the past two weeks 
alone, 185 child sex-abuse victims have been identified 
following checks against INTERPOL databases.
INTERPOL  Notices  —  international  requests  for 
cooperation — are another effective tool in combating 
trafficking  in  persons.  Everyone  is  familiar  with  Red 
Notices,  which  seek  the  location  or  arrest  of  wanted 
criminals  —  in  this  case,  traffickers  in  persons.  But 
there  are  other  notices  that  are  also  highly  effective, 
including  the  Green  Notice,  which  is  used  to  send 
warnings  about  crimes  that  might  extend  to  other 
countries  and  is  therefore  particularly  useful  in  the 
fight  against  trafficking  in  persons.  Green  Notices 
can  warn  neighbouring  States  that  a  known  child-sex 
offender,  suspected  trafficker  or  trafficking  victim  is 
travelling to their region.
In  conclusion,  trafficking  in  persons  is  modern-
day slavery. While it is clear that there are many forms 
of trafficking, they all have one thing in common: the 
abuse of vulnerable victims. INTERPOL takes a victim-
centric approach focused on identifying and protecting 
victims. Within its mandate, INTERPOL will continue 
to do everything in its power to assist member States 
in  identifying  and  disrupting  the  operative  criminal 
networks that are behind human trafficking activities.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 
Assembly  resolution  47/4  of  16  October  1992,  I  call 
on  the  observer  of  the  International  Organization 
for Migration.
Mr.  Gorman-Best  (International  Organization 
for  Migration):  The  International  Organization  for 
Migration  (IOM)  welcomes  the  progress  made  in  and 
the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  and  supports  its  way 
forward.  Over  the  past  three  decades,  the  IOM  has 
been  playing  an  active  role  in  combating  trafficking 
in persons. We fully support the Global Plan of Action 
and  commend  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
for adopting the political declaration (resolution 72/1).
6/10 
17-30366
02/10/2017 
A/72/PV.27
The  Global  Plan  of  Action  is  being  reviewed  at  a 
time of unprecedented global mobility, with 244 million 
international migrants globally. At the same time, the 
world is facing multiple complex and protracted crises. 
There  are  more  than  65  million  forcibly  displaced 
persons on the planet today, of whom 40 million have 
been uprooted within their own countries. We know that 
the rights of too many migrants continue to be violated 
during their journeys and have learned from first-hand 
experience  that  large-scale  displacement  caused  by 
humanitarian  crises,  such  as  armed  conflicts,  natural 
disasters and protracted unrest, can create situations in 
which people become vulnerable to human trafficking. 
With this in mind, I would like to highlight three areas 
in  which,  from  the  perspective  of  the  IOM,  a  more 
concerted effort is required.
First,  while  protection  frameworks  for  victims  of 
trafficking have been strengthened in recent years, less 
progress has been made in preventing human trafficking 
from occurring in the first place. The demand for cheap 
goods  and  sexual  services  is  what  drives  trafficking. 
Efforts should therefore be made to reduce the demand 
for goods and services produced by trafficked persons 
and exploited migrants. This requires the engagement 
of  those  creating  the  demand,  namely,  consumers 
and  businesses.  Concrete  measures  include  efforts  to 
encourage,  assist  or  obligate  companies  to  establish 
decent  working  conditions  for  all  employees  in  their 
supply chains.
in  creating 
Secondly,  despite  progress 
legal 
frameworks to better protect those identified as victims 
of  trafficking,  the  number  of  people  benefiting  from 
these protection schemes remains small when compared 
to the estimated millions of people who continue to be 
trafficked. In order to address this issue, it is important 
to  increase  the  capacities  of  Governments  and  civil 
society  in  identifying  and  assisting  all  migrants  in 
vulnerable situations, including victims of trafficking. 
Efforts  should  also  target  high-risk  locations,  such  as 
border-crossing points, as well as sectors and industries 
in which there is a high risk of trafficking and for which 
effective  responses  are  urgently  required.  It  is  also 
essential  to  ensure  that  anti-trafficking  measures  are 
systematically  included  in  all  phases  of  humanitarian 
action, especially in responding to conflict and disasters.
Thirdly  and  finally,  greater  investment  is  needed 
if  we  are  to  learn  from  anti-trafficking  interventions 
and  draw  on  the  experience  and  expertise  of  the 
anti-trafficking  community  and  others  to  date  with  a 
view to having informed anti-trafficking responses. We 
must  work  towards  better  collection,  standardization 
and  sharing  of  data  on  trafficking.  We  need  to  find 
ways  to  overcome  obstacles  to  data-sharing,  within 
a  framework  of  strict  confidentiality  and  appropriate 
safeguards  so  as  to  protect  the  personal  data  of 
individuals.  This  can  be  achieved  through  the  use  of 
multi-stakeholder open-data publishing platforms such 
as  the  IOM  Counter-Trafficking  Data  Collaborative, 
which will be launched next month.
In  conclusion,  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  is  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  reinvigorate  our  collective 
efforts.  I  would  like  to  close  by  reiterating  the  deep 
commitment  of  the  IOM  to  continuing  to  work  with 
Member States and our other partners, including entities 
within  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against 
Trafficking  in  Persons,  with  a  view  to  eradicating 
human 
the  overall  context  of 
facilitating safe, regular and orderly migration for the 
benefit of all.
trafficking  within 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
this high-level meeting.
In  accordance  with  resolution  71/207  of  4  May 
2017, we will now hear presentations of summaries by 
the Chairs of the two interactive panel discussions.
I now give the floor to the Chair of the delegation 
of Belgium, in his capacity as Chair of interactive panel 
discussion 1.
Mr. Pecsteen de Buytswerve (Belgium): Interactive 
panel  discussion  1  was  entitled  “The  Global  Plan  of 
Action and effective partnerships for the prevention and 
prosecution  of  trafficking  in  persons:  achievements, 
gaps  and  challenges,  also  taking  into  consideration 
the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals”.  Speakers  emphasized 
importance  of 
implementing  appropriate  prevention  measures  and 
effective  prosecution  of  trafficking  in  persons,  which 
constitute two fundamental pillars of the Global Plan of 
Action, together with protection and partnerships.
the 
Speakers  also  noted  the  need  to  develop  and 
implement holistic and comprehensive responses so as 
to  fully  eradicate  trafficking  in  persons.  Participants 
strongly  emphasized  the  urgent  need  to  implement 
a  victim-centred  and  survivor-based  approach 
to 
combating  trafficking.  They  urged  for  an  approach 
that  gives  priority  to  the  human  rights  of  victims 
and  survivors,  places  them  at  the  centre  of  efforts  to 
17-30366
7/10
A/72/PV.27 
02/10/2017
shape  policy  in  operational  responses  and  ensures 
adequate support for survivors’ long-term reintegration 
and recovery.
particular  risk.  Here,  again,  the  potential  unleashed 
by implementing Sustainable Development Goal 5 was 
highlighted by some participants.
that  Member  States 
Speakers  also  noted  that  victim  protection  and 
assistance  were  critical  in  ensuring  the  effective 
trafficking  and 
prosecution  of  perpetrators  of 
recommended 
their 
capacity to properly identify and subsequently protect 
and assist victims. Speakers also underlined the need to 
understand and address the root causes of trafficking in 
persons,  which  include,  among  other  things,  poverty, 
lack  of  economic  opportunity, 
social-protection 
flaws,  education,  gender 
inequalities  and  other 
socioeconomic factors.
increase 
Participants recommended giving further attention 
to the complex interaction of factors that fuel inequality 
and  discrimination  and  contribute 
to  people’s 
vulnerability  to  being  trafficked.  Participants  noted 
that  human  trafficking  is  becoming  an  increasingly 
common  feature 
in  situations  of  conflict,  when 
vulnerability to trafficking, from gender-based violence 
to discrimination to lack of economic opportunity, are 
further intensified.
Speakers  noted  that  impunity,  the  breakdown 
of  the  rule  of  law  and  destruction  of  institutions 
during  conflict  significantly  increase  the  conditions 
in  which  terrorists  and  criminal  groups  exploit  the 
vulnerabilities of individuals, particularly women and 
children.  Speakers  recalled  the  increasing  number  of 
women,  men  and  children  who  embark  on  dangerous 
journeys  in  search  of  dignity  and  safety,  placing 
themselves at risk of abuse and exploitation by criminal 
groups. Participants recalled the close alignment of the 
commitments adopted by the General Assembly in the 
New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants  in 
2016, the Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking 
in  Persons  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, each of which calls for the eradication of 
human trafficking in all its forms, among other things.
Finally,  speakers,  noting  that  the  vast  majority  of 
trafficked victims were women and girls, emphasized 
the  gender-based  aspect  of  the  phenomenon,  urging 
the  international  community  to  address  the  sexual 
exploitation  of  women  and  girls  in  all  contexts.  In 
this  respect,  participants  called  for  greater  attention 
to  be  given  to  the  linkages  connecting  trafficking, 
migration  and  gender,  as  there  are  numerous  gender-
specific  vulnerabilities  that  put  women  and  girls  at 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Chair 
of the delegation of Qatar, in her capacity as Chair of 
interactive panel discussion 2.
Ms.  Al-Thani  (Qatar):  Speakers  in  interactive 
panel discussion 2 recalled that trafficking in persons 
is mentioned in three of the Sustainable Development 
Goals:  Goals  5.2,  8.7  and  16.2.  They  further  noted 
that  trafficking  also  relates  indirectly  to  many  other 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  targets  in  the 
areas of human rights, migration, crisis resilience and 
social inclusion, as reflected in the pledge to leave no 
one  behind.  Participants  also  noted  the  importance 
of  education  and  awareness-raising  campaigns  in 
preventing trafficking in persons, as highlighted in the 
political declaration on the implementation of the United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons  (resolution  72/1).  Above  all,  participants 
reaffirmed  the  importance  of  political  will  in  the 
pursuit of multifaceted approaches to ending the crime 
of  trafficking  in  persons.  Speakers  also  reiterated  the 
urgent need for greater and more predictable resources, 
including funding, to combat trafficking in persons.
Many speakers also highlighted the important role 
played by the United Nations voluntary trust fund for 
victims  of  trafficking  in  persons,  especially  women 
and children, and called for enhanced support for the 
trust  fund  so  as  to  allow  its  good  work  to  continue. 
Participants  further  stressed  the  need  for  specific 
measures  to  be  taken  to  address  human  trafficking 
resulting  from  situations  of  conflict,  humanitarian 
crises  and  natural  disasters.  Speakers  highlighted  the 
need for systematic responses from the United Nations 
system, all humanitarian actors and the wide range of 
actors involved in conflict and crisis-affected areas.
also 
recognized 
Participants 
the  particular 
vulnerability  of  migrants  and  refugees 
to  being 
trafficked  and  called  for  them  to  be  afforded  greater 
protection. Speakers noted the need for a comprehensive 
and  holistic  approach  to  the  issue  of  trafficking, 
addressing  all  its  aspects  rather  than  focusing  on 
individual components. Participants reiterated the need 
for a greater emphasis on partnerships and coordination. 
In  this  respect,  speakers  emphasized  the  central  role 
that is played by the Inter-Agency Coordination Group 
against  Trafficking  in  Persons  and  underscored  the 
8/10 
17-30366
02/10/2017 
A/72/PV.27
important  roles  played  by  civil  society,  academia  and 
the private sector in supporting prevention, protection 
and prosecution efforts.
Finally,  many  speakers  reiterated  the  important 
role that the private sector should play in addressing the 
issue of consumers and consumer demand as a driver 
of trafficking.
Statement by the President
The  President:  I  cannot  express  how  disturbed  I 
was by the personal experiences recounted by Grizelda 
Grootboom,  Shireen  Ibrahim,  Rani  Hong  and  many 
others. I know that the Assembly was also shocked. I 
would  like  to  thank  Ms.  Grootboom,  a  survivor  and 
advocate,  for  bravely  sharing  her  experience  of  being 
trafficked.  Let  us  not  forget  Ms.  Grootboom’s  plea  to 
act when she said,
“I really hope that the Global Plan will not be 
just the action of putting pen to paper, but that it 
will inspire action in every rural township and city 
and country” (A/72/PV.24, p. 9).
Ms. Grootboom spoke of the hope that the United 
Nations gives to victims and survivors. The Organization 
was  created  for  people,  not  for  Governments.  We 
cannot let down her or the millions of other people who 
are trafficked around the world for billions of dollars. 
Ms.  Mira  Sorvino,  Goodwill  Ambassador  Goodwill 
Ambassador  for  the  Global  Fight  against  Human 
Trafficking,  commented  that  traffickers  treat  victims 
as mercantile goods. Ms. Rani Hong, a former victim 
who is now an advocate, recalled being taken from her 
mother  at  the  tender  age  of  seven  and  sold.  We  must 
support the dignity, human rights and humanity of the 
people who are affected by human trafficking.
for 
As  Ms.  Hong  said,  this  is  a  human  issue  that 
requires survivor-led solutions. We are all undoubtedly 
grateful 
the  Grizelda  Grootbooms,  Shireen 
Ibrahims,  women  and  girls  and  boys  and  men  of  the 
world who are all people who deserve to live a decent 
and dignified life, without fear of trafficking. But I am 
particularly  grateful  to  all  of  the  advocates  who  give 
voices  to  the  voiceless  millions  who  are  subjected  to 
human trafficking.
In the opening segment of this high-level appraisal, 
we heard from the Secretary-General and the Executive 
Director  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime,  who  highlighted  the  importance  of  holding 
perpetrators  accountable.  We  also  adopted  a  political 
declaration (resolution 72/1), which represents a strong 
renewed  commitment  for  action  going  forward  and 
reaffirmation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action.  We  must 
turn that gesture into practical action.
At  this  high-level  meeting  we  heard  statements 
from 98 Member States, whose representatives included 
some 10 Ministers and seven Deputy Ministers, as well 
as from six observers. As we just heard from the Chairs 
of  the  two  interactive  panel  discussions,  the  Chairs 
of  the  delegations  of  Qatar  and  Belgium,  the  panel 
discussions  were  fruitful.  However,  the  true  measure 
of  a  successful  meeting  is  whether  the  action  points 
elicited  are  implemented  afterwards.  Our  work  is  far 
from over.
We have essentially asked two questions. How far 
have  we  come  in  combating  human  trafficking?  And 
how  much  further  do  we  have  to  go?  The  following 
points were made during this high-level appraisal.
First,  millions  of  people  are  victims  of  forced 
labour, sexual servitude and other forms of exploitation. 
Trafficking  in  persons  affects  the  weakest  and  most 
vulnerable members of society, including women, girls 
and boys.
Second,  a  number  of  Member  States  highlighted 
the importance of using the United Nations Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime,  the  Protocol 
to  Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking 
in 
Persons,  Especially  Women  and  Children,  and  other 
international  instruments  in  our  fight  against  human 
trafficking.  Many  Member  States  also  shared  their 
national plans and laws to combat human trafficking. 
They noted that it is a serious crime and a violation of 
fundamental rights.
Third,  various  Member  States  called  on  the 
Assembly to adopt approaches that are victim-focused, 
survivor-based,  human  rights-based,  gender-specific 
and  child-sensitive.  There  was  also  an  emphasis  on 
the 
importance  of  multi-stakeholder  approaches, 
awareness-raising  campaigns  and  bilateral,  regional 
and international cooperation.
Fourth,  the  importance  of  addressing  the  root 
causes  and  factors  contributing  to  trafficking  was 
highlighted. They include poverty, a lack of education 
and opportunity and gender inequality. Many speakers 
pointed  out  that  the  increase  in  conflicts,  insecurity 
and  economic  uncertainty  that  has  forced  millions 
17-30366
9/10
A/72/PV.27 
02/10/2017
leave 
to 
their  homes  makes  people  vulnerable. 
Participants called for the adoption of a global compact 
for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  to  address  the 
vulnerability of migrants.
Fifth, Member States reiterated that the Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  particularly  Goals  5,  8  and  16, 
call on us to end human trafficking, with a particular 
emphasis on women and children.
Sixth,  there  were  calls  for  increased  access  to 
justice and an emphasis on the importance of disrupting 
trafficking  networks,  facilitating  prosecution  and 
improving conviction rates of traffickers.
Seventh, many speakers drew attention to the huge 
profits  being  made  from  human  trafficking  and  the 
need to address both supply and demand.
Finally,  the  importance  of  strengthening  support 
for  victims,  particularly  through  the  United  Nations 
voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking in persons, 
especially  women  and  children,  was  highlighted.  I 
commend  those  who  have  pledged  contributions  and 
encourage others to do the same.
In conclusion, we have heard from Member States 
on  the  progress  made  in  fighting  human  trafficking. 
However, as many have highlighted, much remains to be 
done across the four pillars of prevention, prosecution, 
protection and partnership. As we take further action to 
combat human trafficking, let us keep in mind the fifth 
P — the reason that the United Nations exists — people.
I  declare  closed  the  high-level  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  appraisal  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 107.
The meeting rose at 11.10 a.m.
10/10 
17-30366
