United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
53rd plenary meeting
Monday, 13 November 2017, 5.45 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 5.45 p.m.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c)  Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/72/181)
List of candidates (A/72/182 and A/72/182/Add.1)
Curricula vitae (A/72/183)
The  Acting  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
there is still one vacancy on the Court to be filled. The 
Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  vote  in  respect  of  the 
remaining vacancy.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers  will  now  be  distributed.  Ballot  papers  will  be 
given only to the representative seated directly behind 
the country’s nameplate. Representatives are requested 
to use only the ballot papers that are being distributed.
The  two  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the 
ballot paper are eligible.
May  I  remind  delegations  that  only  the  box  next 
to the name of one candidate should be marked with a 
cross. Any ballot paper on which more than one name 
is checked will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast 
only for those whose names appear on the ballot papers.
At the invitation of the President, Mr. Aldoseri (Bahrain), 
Ms.  Sánchez  Rodríguez  (Cuba),  Mrs.  Le  Diffard 
(Hungary), Ms. Rheindrayani (Indonesia), Mr. McSwiney 
(Ireland) and Mr. Waweru (Kenya) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  5.50  p.m.  and 
resumed at 6.10 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members present and voting: 
Absolute majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained:
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari (India) 
Mr. Christopher Greenwood (United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland) 
192
0
192
3
189
97
121
68
Mr.  Dalveer  Bhandari  obtained  an  absolute 
majority in the General Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  communicated 
the  result  of  the  voting  to  the  President  of  the 
Security Council.
The President of the General Assembly has received 
from the President of the Security Council the following 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37991 (E)
*1737991*
A/72/PV.53 
13/11/2017
letter, which I will read out on behalf of the President of 
the Assembly:
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that,  at  the 
8098th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
13  November  2017,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
one  member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
for a term of office beginning on 6 February 2018, 
Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood  (United  Kingdom  of 
Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland)  obtained  an 
absolute majority of votes.”
The  same  candidate  was  not  successful  in  both 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  In 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  11  of  the 
Statute of the Court, it will be necessary to hold another 
meeting to fill the remaining vacancy. In view of the 
late hour, I propose that this meeting be adjourned. The 
next plenary meeting to vote on the remaining vacancy 
will be announced at a later date, in consultation with 
the President of the Security Council.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
2/2 
17-37991
