United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
14th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 September 2017, 6.25 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.14
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Shava 
(Zimbabwe), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.25 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Giorgi Kvirikashvili, Prime 
Minister of Georgia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Georgia.
Mr.  Giorgi  Kvirikashvili,  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Giorgi  Kvirikashvili, 
Prime Minister of Georgia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Kvirikashvili  (Georgia):  At  the  outset,  let 
me  express  my  deepest  condolences  and  sympathy  to 
the  victims  of  the  natural  disasters  that  have  affected 
North  America  over  the  past  several  days,  including 
the  hurricanes 
that  have  devastated  Caribbean 
island  nations  and  parts  of  the  United  States  and  the 
earthquakes  that  have  impacted  Mexico.  We  convey 
our  solidarity  to  the  Governments  and  the  peoples  of 
those nations during these difficult times. No country, 
including  Georgia,  is  immune  from  natural  disasters. 
Solidarity is what strengthens nations when addressing 
such severe challenges.
My  fellow  countrymen  share  with  me  the  honour 
of  addressing  the  General  Assembly  today,  because 
the  message  that  I  have  been  entrusted  to  deliver 
is  one  that  they  understand  in  their  bones,  having 
personally experienced it, lived it and embraced it. That 
message  —  their  message  —  is  straightforward:  by 
putting Georgian citizens at the centre of our strategy, 
we  aim  to  further  strengthen  democratic  institutions, 
ensure peace and accelerate economic growth. Those are 
the essential multipliers for sustainable development, a 
project that connects us with the region and the world.
This  year  marks  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
Georgia’s  membership  in  the  United  Nations.  During 
that period, we have managed to transform our country 
from a recipient of United Nations humanitarian aid to 
a top reformer that was recently elected as Chair of the 
Open Government Partnership. Georgia brings to that 
task the same vision that it espouses for itself: putting its 
citizens at the centre of its priorities. Georgia’s chairship 
of the Open Government Partnership will support the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
especially Goal 16, on promoting peaceful and inclusive 
societies for sustainable development, providing access 
to justice for all and building effective, accountable and 
inclusive institutions.
In implementing the SDGs by incorporating them 
into  our  national  policies,  we  have  seen  the  need  for 
the institutional reform of the United Nations, and we 
support the new vision of Secretary-General Guterres 
as reflected in the Declaration of Support, to which we 
recently subscribed. When I spoke before the Assembly 
last  year  (see  A/71/PV.13),  Georgia  was  heading  into 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29597 (E)
*1729597*
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
general elections. That resulted in our people entrusting 
us  with  increased  support  to  lead  the  country.  The 
people  saw  two  things.  First,  they  saw  that  we  are 
committed  to  making  democratic  rights  and  security 
the key drivers of all our policies. Secondly, they saw 
that we offer a clear path for further reforms.
Our  citizens  feel  the  changes  that  international 
institutions have been clearly referring to. Georgia has 
advanced  in  all  international  rankings  over  the  past 
five  years.  The  Fraser  Institute  ranks  the  Georgian 
economy as the fifth freest in the world. We have come 
to  grips  with  corruption.  The  Heritage  Foundation 
ranked  Georgia  thirty-first  in  terms  of  freedom  from 
corruption in 2017, an improvement from its ranking of 
sixty-ninth in 2012. Transparency International echoed 
that  progress  in  2016  by  ranking  Georgia  first  in  the 
region in that regard. We have prioritized the protection 
of  property  rights.  The  World  Economic  Forum’s 
Global  Competitiveness  Report  2016-2017  has  raised 
Georgia’s ranking by 77 since 2012. We are committed 
to  an  independent  judiciary.  The  World  Economic 
Forum  ranks  Georgia  at  sixty-third  in  that  regard,  an 
increase  in  rankings  of  28.  In  the  critical  area  of  law 
enforcement  and  physical  security,  the  World  Bank 
ranks Georgia twenty-sixth with respect to combating 
organized crime, an increase in rankings of 41.
We  are  not  making  merely  cosmetic  changes. 
We  promised  our  people  that  we  would  introduce  a 
parliamentary  system  and  improve  our  Constitution 
so  as  to  conform  to  the  best  European  standards.  In 
addition to addressing numerous contradictions in the 
current  Constitution,  the  new  draft  introduces  many 
new progressive initiatives, such as the right to physical 
integrity, the rights of persons with disabilities, the right 
to access to the Internet, environmental protections and 
many more that are in line with the recommendations 
of  the  European  Commission  for  Democracy  through 
Law,  also  know  as  the  Venice  Commission.  Those 
commitments  reflect  Georgians’  aspirations  to  attain 
full  membership  in  the  European  Union  and  NATO. 
Georgians  understand  that  to  be  their  destiny,  as 
Georgia  has  long  been  an  integral  part  of  Europe’s 
broad cultural and historical tapestry.
In  parallel  with  constitutional  reform,  we  began 
implementing  our  four-point  economic  reform  plan 
aimed at ensuring quick economic growth. We launched 
an  ambitious  education  reform  in  order  to  facilitate 
links  between  the  educational  system  and  industry 
and  develop  demand-based  higher  and  professional 
education and enhance the economic skills and capacity 
of the labour force.
Living in an innovative society is a key to success 
for our talented young people. We are further investing 
in  our  national  ecosystem  and  in  integrating  it  into 
the  global  one  so  as  to  open  doors  and  build  bridges 
connecting our innovators with world markets.
Prudent  macroeconomic  policy  has  been 
the 
foundation  of  our  success  in  the  region’s  turbulent 
economic environment. The World Economic Forum’s 
Global Competitiveness Report has advanced Georgia 
by  97  places  in  the  rankings  since  2012.  This  month, 
Moody’s upgraded the sovereign credit rating of Georgia 
to  Ba2,  acknowledging  that  Georgia  has  successfully 
overcome the regional shock of 2014-2016.
We  are  committed 
In order to increase incentives to invest in Georgia, 
we  have  implemented  a  bold  taxation  reform,  which 
includes  abolishing  the  profit  tax  on  undistributed 
earnings and liberalizing the tax administration system. 
We  anticipate  up  to  5  per  cent  economic  growth  this 
year, rising to 7 per cent and higher in the coming years.
to  upgrading  Georgia’s 
infrastructure. That is important in order for Georgia 
to realize its geostrategic aim of serving as a hub for 
doing  business  in  the  region,  connecting  East  and 
West.  Upgrading  our  infrastructure  is  essential  so 
as  to  ensure  the  rapid  delivery  of  services,  achieve 
efficiency  in  tourism  and  logistics,  and  effectively 
take goods to market. We see that as a powerful way 
to create employment that pulls people out of poverty. 
We  have  agreed  to  a  multi-year  programme  with 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  have  secured 
financing  for  projects  worth  several  billion  dollars 
from international financial organizations.
Georgia, like Ukraine and Moldova, has signed an 
Association Agreement with a Deep and Comprehensive 
Free  Trade  Area  agreement  with  the  European  Union 
(EU) and has secured visa-free travel to the EU. At the 
same time, Georgia has become the first country in the 
region to sign a free-trade agreement with China. On 
the one hand, we are integrating into the EU internal 
market and, on the other hand, we are bringing Asian 
markets closer to us. That enables Georgia to use the 
full potential of its free trade networks as part of one 
of the most exciting development ventures of our time.
We  are  contributing  to  the  One  Belt,  One  Road 
project,  which  will  facilitate  trade  in  high-value 
2/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
goods and services between Europe and Asia, cutting 
significant time from the length of traditional seaborne 
transport  around  the  peripheries  of  Eurasia.  Asia  and 
Europe  will  meet  in  that  grand  adventure  through 
the  Baku-Tbilisi-Kars  railway  project,  which  we  are 
implementing  together  with  our  Turkish  and  Azeri 
partners,  and  Georgia’s  new  state-of-the-art  port  on 
the Black Sea at Anaklia. That deep-water port will be 
capable of handling the largest container ships, which 
will result in a multifold increase of Georgia’s cargo-
transit capacity. Anaklia will be developed by multiple 
international  players  and  will  be  operated  by  a  well-
known American company.
Georgia  is  now  less  than  10  days  from  East  Asia 
and  within  five  days  of  any  point  in  Europe.  We  are 
creating an efficient multimodal transit infrastructure 
that  will  forge  links  and  processes,  and  will  cement 
relationships among States and people from Europe to 
Asia. It represents the fundamental connection between 
building  economic  stability  for  Georgian  citizens  and 
achieving a more prosperous and peaceful region.
In  a  world  full  of  challenges  —  hot  and  frozen 
conflicts, State and non-State aggressions — Georgia 
is no exception. And here, too, we have put our citizens 
at the centre of our strategy. United Nations Members 
are  well  aware  that  the  Russian  Federation  continues 
to occupy two historical regions of Georgia’s sovereign 
territory 
international 
obligations, including dozens of Security Council and 
General Assembly resolutions.
in  violation  of 
its  many 
Since the beginning of 2017, the Russian Federation 
has  intensified  its  policy  of  occupation  and  factual 
annexation  of  the  Georgian  regions  of  Abkhazia  and 
Tskhinvali/South Ossetia. It has implemented so-called 
integration  treaties  and  signed  so-called  agreements 
with de facto authorities to absorb Georgia’s occupied 
regions  into  Russia’s  military,  political,  economic 
and social systems. It has also accelerated its military 
build-up  in  both  of  the  occupied  regions  of  Georgia. 
The Russian Federation has intensified the fortification 
of the occupation lines by installing razor-wire fences, 
trenches,  so-called  border  signs  and  other  artificial 
barriers.  Families  have  even  endured  having  razor-
wire fences cut through their dwellings and farmyards. 
Vulnerable groups, such as people in need of medical 
care  and  schoolchildren  crossing  to  get  an  education 
in  their  native  language,  which  is  prohibited  in  the 
occupied regions, have been blocked by closed crossing 
points. Meanwhile, Russia continues to install motion 
detectors and other technologies in order to assert full 
control of all crossings along the occupation line.
Georgia  is  firmly  committed  to  the  peaceful 
resolution of the Russia-Georgia conflict. The Georgian 
Government complies with the EU-mediated ceasefire 
agreement. It has many times reaffirmed its adherence 
to  the  legally  binding  non-use  of  force.  Russia  has 
not  reciprocated.  Georgia’s  consistent  efforts  to  find 
a  peaceful  solution  to  the  conflict  are  reflected  in 
the  testimonies  of  many  countries  and  international 
organizations. I would like to thank world leaders for 
addressing  the  need  of  accelerating  peaceful  conflict 
resolution  and  for  supporting  Georgia’s  territorial 
integrity and sovereignty during this general debate.
Every  year, 
the  General  Assembly  adopts  a 
resolution reiterating the right of return of all internally 
displaced persons and refugees to the occupied regions. 
Georgians  are  grateful  for  the  support  of  the  United 
Nations,  but  the  resolutions  have  not  translated  into 
reality  for  hundreds  of  thousands  of  my  compatriots 
waiting  to  return  to  their  homes,  simply  because  one 
State Member of the United Nations refuses to comply 
with its international obligations.
The  Government  of  Georgia  is  providing  new 
instruments  to  rebuild  trust  with  our  compatriots 
living  across  the  occupation  line.  We  are  determined 
to  make  the  benefits  of  Georgia’s  European  agenda 
available to the people on the other side of occupation 
line.  Our  substantial  package  of  initiatives  for  those 
under  occupation 
include  providing  opportunities 
for  trans-administrative  borderline  trade  and  access 
to  Georgia’s  free  trade  opportunities  in  the  global 
marketplace. We also offer them health care, education 
and other social benefits.
Despite  the  challenges  we  face,  Georgia  is  a 
significant  contributor  to  Euro-Atlantic  security.  Our 
strategic partnership with the United States has proved 
to be key for our development and stability, and we are 
committed  to  deepening  those  ties  further.  The  EU 
Global  Strategy  has  recognized  Georgia’s  success  as 
a prosperous, peaceful and stable democracy and as a 
significant contributor in its neighbourhood.
including 
in  Afghanistan  and 
We continue our active participation in international 
operations, 
the 
European crisis-management operations in the Central 
African Republic and Mali. In 2014, Georgia became a 
member of the Global Coalition to Defeat the Islamic 
State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  (ISIS)  and  joined  three 
in 
17-29597
3/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
counter-ISIS working groups on counter-financing, on 
counter-messaging  and  on  foreign  terrorist  fighters. 
Georgia  is  a  party  to  14  United  Nations  counter-
terrorism conventions and to the European Convention 
on  the  Suppression  of  Terrorism,  and  fulfils  its 
commitments in that regard.
Georgia is growing. Georgia is vibrant. Georgia is 
resilient  in  the  face  of  challenges.  Georgia  carries  its 
share of international responsibilities. Georgia is all of 
those things, because Georgia is its citizens. They are 
at the centre of our Government’s strategy, and that is 
where they will remain. As we have reached out to the 
world, the world has come to us. Our citizens are the 
beneficiaries of greater connectivity to the world. Their 
economic success is a prerequisite for sustained well-
being  and  prosperity,  both  at  home  and  well  beyond 
Georgia’s borders. I speak today as one steward of our 
nation, with thanks to all who love and support Georgia.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Giorgi  Kvirikashvili,  Prime  Minister  of 
Georgia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime 
Minister of Antigua and Barbuda
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Antigua 
and Barbuda.
Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister  of 
Antigua and Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso 
Browne, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
(Antigua 
Mr.  Browne 
and  Barbuda):  On 
6 September, my small, two-island State, Antigua and 
Barbuda,  was  the  victim  of  the  ferocity  of  Hurricane 
Irma, the largest storm endured in the Atlantic in human 
history. The island of Barbuda was decimated, its entire 
population  left  homeless  and  its  buildings  reduced  to 
empty shells.
Fortunately,  Antigua  and  Barbuda  was  spared 
the full blast of Hurricane Maria just nine days later, 
although  sustained  winds  of  up  to  60  miles  per  hour 
gave  us  a  troubling  awareness  of  the  agony  visited 
on  the  nearby  islands  of  Dominica,  Guadeloupe  and 
Puerto  Rico.  Antigua  and  Barbuda  continued  to  stay 
resilient. Having witnessed the devastation of Barbuda 
and the desolation of its inhabitants after the ravages of 
Irma,  my  heart  bleeds  for  the  people  of  the  countries 
that have now been brutalized by Maria, and those that 
will suffer its cruelty in the coming days.
I  have  come  to  the  General  Assembly  because 
I  consider  it  to  be  important  to  speak  to  the  world’s 
representatives  and  to  do  so  collectively  in  order  to 
share the experience of my country, as well as the huge 
challenges  faced  by  the  Caribbean  islands  in  general. 
Barbuda  and  its  inhabitants  were  among  the  worst 
affected by Hurricane Irma in the region. Barbuda has 
a  surface  of  62  square  miles.  When  Irma  thundered 
over the island, it was 375 miles wide, with gale force 
winds  of  220  miles  per  hour.  Barbuda  did  not  stand 
the faintest chance against such size, such ferocity and 
such  intensity.  The  island  was  completely  destroyed, 
and my Government was compelled to evacuate all of 
the inhabitants to Antigua.
For the first time in over 300 years, there are now 
no permanent residents on Barbuda. The footprints of 
an entire civilization have been erased by the brutality 
and magnitude of Irma. Everything that meant anything 
to the inhabitants had to be left behind — their homes, 
their possessions, their history, indeed, everything that 
defines them as a society and as a people. Mercifully, 
Antigua, the larger of the two islands, suffered no major 
damage, and it could begin to function normally within 
48 hours.
is  simply  beyond 
Had  that  not  been  the  case,  how  we  would  have 
coped 
imagination.  Overnight, 
Antigua’s  population  increased  by  almost  3  per  cent. 
I know of no country that could easily cope with such 
an unplanned, unexpected and unscheduled increase in 
its population.
In  addition  to  providing  shelter,  accommodation 
and  basic  necessities  to  the  evacuated  residents  of 
Barbuda, the social services on Antigua are now under 
great  strain.  They  struggle  to  provide  school  places 
for  an  additional  600  students,  medical  services  for 
the elderly and a means of earning an income for the 
able-bodied.  Naturally,  the  residents  of  Barbuda  are 
anxious  to  return  to  their  homeland.  But,  as  I  speak 
to  the  Assembly,  the  island  remains  unfit  for  human 
habitation. There is no electricity or potable water, and 
4/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
95  per  cent  of  the  buildings  have  been  destroyed  or 
severely damaged.
Preliminary  estimates  have  placed  the  cost  of 
rebuilding Barbuda at about $250 million. That figure 
represents  15  per  cent  or  more  of  my  country’s  gross 
domestic  product  of  approximately  $1.5  billion.  It  is 
simply a stretch beyond our reach.
The President took the Chair.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  urgently 
the 
assistance  of  the  international  community,  including 
the international development and finance institutions, 
to accomplish the vital task of rebuilding Barbuda. And 
I should say that we have not outstretched the palm of 
our  hand  because  we  simply  crave;  we  plead  because 
we need.
requires 
Barbuda  is  not  only  a  natural  disaster;  it  is  a 
humanitarian crisis that now consumes Antigua. Even 
as  my  Government  and  people  look  forward  to  the 
assistance of the better-off nations of the world, I thank 
those  nations  and  persons  who  were  first  responders, 
particularly  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  who  went  beyond 
the  call  of  duty  to  assist.  I  also  acknowledge  the 
commitment of and contributions from the Government 
and the people of the People’s Republic of China, the 
Governments of Cuba, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, 
Canada, the Dominican Republic and sister States of the 
Caribbean Community, who gave generously from the 
little they have. That includes Dominica, which, in one 
wretched  night,  lost  a  significant  number  of  precious 
lives and years of hard-earned development under the 
unrelenting battering of Hurricane Maria.
On Antigua, Barbudans are being cared for as best 
we  can  with  our  very  limited  resources.  But  as  the 
period  of  care  lengthens,  not  only  do  the  conditions 
worsen  but 
increases,  forcing  my 
Government to borrow money on commercial terms at 
high interest rates and swelling our already burdensome 
national debt.
the  cost  also 
The present international financial architecture is 
leaving  small  States  such  as  mine  behind.  Whatever 
position  on  climate  change  a  nation  may  take,  the 
evidence  of  global  warming 
irrefutably 
stronger.  Two  Category  5  hurricanes  within  12  days, 
which  unrelentingly  pounded  so  many  countries,  can 
no longer be dismissed as vagaries of the weather, nor 
can  they  be  explained  as  Nature’s  doing.  Hurricanes 
is  now 
are  stronger  and  bigger  because  they  are  absorbing 
moisture  from  seas  that  are  increasingly  warmer  as  a 
result of global warming.
And that is a man-made phenomenon, attributable 
to  those  nations  that  consume  80  per  cent  or  more  of 
the world’s primary energy, emitting dangerous levels 
of  pollution  into  the  atmosphere.  All  14  Caribbean 
Community  countries  together  produce 
than 
0.1  per  cent  of  global  emissions.  We  are  the  least  of 
the  polluters  but  the  largest  of  the  casualties.  The 
unfairness, injustice and inequality of the situation are 
painfully obvious.
less 
If  such  frequent  and  brutal  storms  are  to  be 
withstood,  Caribbean  islands  and  certain  parts  of 
the  United  States  need  to  construct  more  resilient 
buildings  and  infrastructure  than  now  exists.  That 
means that the international development and financial 
institutions need to provide financing at concessionary 
rates  without  artificial  impediments.  If  that  does  not 
happen, the subsequent cost in lives and property is too 
frightening to contemplate.
Increasingly,  States  such  as  mine  are  victims 
of  an  international  economic  and  financial  system 
that  regards  us  merely  as  a  numerical  statistic  or 
a  mere  nuisance.  We  are  measured  by  the  level  of 
our  income,  even  though  it  is  an  insufficient  and 
unreasonable  criterion  for  establishing  vulnerability, 
poverty and need. Like many other small island States, 
my developing country is categorized as high-income, 
thus  denying  it  access  to  concessional  financing  and 
grant funding from international financial institutions 
and donor Governments.
It  is  patently  obvious  that  the  per-capita  income 
criterion is a skewed and flawed determinant. It should 
be eliminated and eliminated immediately. Because we 
are small economies with inadequate domestic capital 
formation,  our  countries  open  our  doors  to  foreign 
investment,  granting  significant  tax  concessions  so 
as to attract investments and help provide jobs to curb 
poverty.  The  consequence  is  that  a  small  percentage 
of  persons  in  our  community,  mostly  expatriates,  at 
the  top  end  of  businesses  earn  the  largest  percentage 
of  high  incomes  and  the  mass  of  the  population 
earns  considerably  less.  In  addition,  Government 
tax  revenues  are  significantly  reduced  owing  to  the 
investment  concessions  granted.  It  is  time  that  those 
who  control  the  levers  of  power  in  the  economic  and 
financial  international  community  acknowledged  that 
17-29597
5/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
the per-capita system of measurement is discriminatory 
and resolved to change it. It is time that that particular 
swamp be drained, and now is the time for action.
In the United States, where the United Nations is 
located and the Assembly is gathered today, one of its 
early leaders, Abraham Lincoln, declared at a critical 
time in its history that this country could not survive 
“half slave and half free”. He may have been speaking 
specifically  of  America  and  of  the  disunity  that 
gripped  it  at  the  time,  but  he  was  talking  about  more 
than immorality. He was also talking about social and 
economic justice. Lincoln’s observation is compellingly 
relevant  to  social  and  economic  justice  in  the  world 
today.  Injustice  and  inequality  breed  instability.  The 
world cannot survive with the wealthy few controlling 
90 per cent of global resources. If so, its centre will not 
hold. Its centre will not hold if the inequality between 
rich  and  poor  nations  increases.  It  will  not  be  stable 
until social and economic justice prevails.
My country and citizens do not want to beg for a 
living. We want to work for it. We want to earn our way, 
but we cannot do so if the international system refuses 
to provide us with the means and the tools to build our 
future. Access to concessional financing represents an 
imperative need that would give us a great leap forward. 
It  would  take  us  out  of  the  spiral  of  debt  that  we  are 
incurring  owing  to  our  repeated  need  to  rebuild  after 
disasters with high-cost commercial money. Where is 
the justice in that? In large wealthy countries borrowing 
occurs  in  capital  markets  at  3  per  cent  per  annum 
while  the  so-called  high-income  small  island  States 
are  forced  to  borrow  commercially  at  12  per  cent  per 
annum to repeatedly rebuild infrastructure damaged  by 
hurricanes. Where is the justice in that? It is irrational 
and punitive to graduate a small island State that cannot 
pay its debts to high-income status, thereby precluding 
it from much-needed development financing.
The  theme  of  the  Assembly’s  general  debate  is 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”. That is all my people 
and the people of small island States want — peace and 
a decent life on a planet that is sustainable. We deserve 
nothing  less,  and  we  expect  nothing  less.  It  is  in  that 
connection  that  I  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that  even 
in the midst of our present crisis, Antigua and Barbuda 
is  faced  with  demands  from  a  Paris  Club  group  of 
wealthy countries for the settlement of $130 million in 
debts incurred four decades ago because concessional 
financing was and is still denied to us. It would be of 
enormous help in dealing with the plight that we now 
face and the daunting task of rebuilding Barbuda at a 
cost upwards of $250 million if those wealthy Paris Club 
countries would forgive or at least reduce significantly 
the debt that now weighs so heavily on our shoulders. It 
should be noted that the amount outstanding constitutes 
primarily accrued interest. Such a step would provide 
us with the fiscal space to borrow as we seek to garner 
every cent to recover and rebuild from Hurricane Irma 
and to give our people a chance to achieve a decent life 
in keeping with the Sustainable Development Goals.
In  that  same  context,  my  small  country  won  a 
trade dispute with the United States in 2004 before the 
World Trade Organization. That trade violation led to 
significant revenue losses to my country and to greater 
unemployment among my people. It has been 13 long 
years  since  that  judgement  and  seven  years  since  the 
final  appeal  by  the  United  States  resulted  in  a  final 
ruling in my country’s favour, and yet the United States 
has  failed  to  settle.  The  loss  of  trade  revenues  to  my 
small country has risen to more than $200 million. Our 
Government has laboured unsuccessfully for more than 
13 years to reach an amicable and reasonable settlement 
with  the  United  States.  That  is  a  classic  case  where 
might is right and where the rights of a small, powerless 
State have been trampled on.
I  should  mention  that  over  the  past  13  years  the 
United States has enjoyed a trade surplus with my small 
country of more than $2 billion — I repeat, $2 billion. 
I  am  well  aware  that  the  prolongation  of  a  settlement 
of the judgement in question is not the making of the 
present United States Administration, which inherited 
it.  But  in  the  interest  of  fairness,  justice  and  good 
conscience, it would be beneficial to my nation in this 
hour of great need for the United States Government to 
settle that case.
In  this  very  Hall  two  days  ago,  President  Trump 
said of the United States,
“[W]e can no longer be taken advantage of or enter 
into a one-sided deal where the United States gets 
nothing in return” (A/72/PV.3, p. 11).
His observation, which I welcome, is equally true for the 
relationship with Antigua and Barbuda. Honouring its 
obligations to Antigua and Barbuda is not a one-sided 
deal in which the United States gets nothing in return, 
because  ultimately  90  per  cent  of  the  settlement 
proceeds  will  be  spent  in  the  United  States  economy, 
as our primary source market. The United States is the 
6/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
greatest beneficiary of trade with my country and has 
been so year after year for many decades. Settling with 
us for more than 13 years of trade losses would take less 
than one year of the trade surplus that the United States’ 
$20 trillion economy has with Antigua and Barbuda’s 
mere $1 billion economy.
In the past few days the experience of the Caribbean 
islands has shown that entire ancient communities can 
be  snuffed  out  overnight  and  the  quality  of  their  life 
suddenly and irreversibly set back. I remind members 
that for the first time in more than 300 years there is 
no  permanent  human  resident  on  Barbuda.  But  my 
Government is determined to rebuild Barbuda, however 
long  it  takes  and  with  whatever  resources  we  can 
muster.  We  are  determined  that  no  Caribbean  society 
will  be  extinguished  and  that  the  Caribbean  nations 
will remain firmly on the global map. But even as we 
resolve, with limited means, to keep our societies alive 
and  vibrant,  we  call  on  the  international  community 
to  acknowledge  its  obligation  to  humankind  and  all 
peoples, without whom its own societies cannot prosper 
and will not thrive. In the words of the poet John Donne,
“Any  man’s  death  diminishes  me,  because  I  am 
involved  in  mankind,  and  therefore  never  send  to 
know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee”.
As citizens of planet Earth, let us acknowledge our 
common humanity and work in harmony to make our 
world a better place.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, Prime 
Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan.
Mr.  Shahid  Khaqan  Abbasi,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, was escorted to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Shahid  Khaqan  Abbasi,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Abbasi  (Pakistan):  I  would  first  like  to 
convey  the  deepest  sympathies  of  the  people  and  the 
Government of Pakistan to the people of Mexico, who 
have been affected by the recent earthquake, and all of 
those affected by Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
Let me then congratulate you, Sir, on your election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. I am confident that your long experience 
in public service and international relations will be an 
asset in successfully guiding the Assembly to address 
the  imposing  challenge  of  security,  development  and 
governance that confront the world today.
For over 70 years, despite the Cold War, the nuclear 
arms  race  and  scores  of  regional  conflicts,  our  world 
has been able to avoid a global conflagration. That can 
be ascribed largely to the adherence by most States to 
the prohibition of the use or threat of use of force, except 
under the authority of the Charter of the United Nations.
Unfortunately, the principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations have been progressively eroded in the 
new millennium. In recent years, some countries have 
displayed  a  growing  proclivity  to  resort  to  unilateral 
force  and  intervention  against  other  States.  Coercion 
and  threats  have  emerged  once  again  as  the  main 
currency in the management of inter-State disputes and 
differences.  Renewed  East-West  tensions  may  engulf 
Europe  in  another  Cold  War.  Peace  and  prosperity  in 
Asia  are  threatened  by  emerging  great  Power  friction 
and rising tensions in South, East and West Asia.
The Middle East is racked by war and violence in 
Syria,  Iraq,  Yemen  and  elsewhere.  Although  Da’esh 
appears  to  have  been  weakened  in  Iraq  and  Syria, 
terrorist violence has spread and intensified across the 
Middle  East  and  Africa  and  other  parts  of  the  world. 
There  is  no  end  in  sight  to  the  tragedy  of  Palestine. 
Israel’s  prolonged  occupation  and  the  expansion  of 
illegal  settlements  may  lead  to  renewed  and  wider 
violence in the holy land.
The  legitimate  struggle  for  self-determination 
of  the  people  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  continues  to  be 
brutally suppressed by India’s occupation forces. Rising 
racism and religious hatred, manifested in xenophobia 
and  Islamophobia,  is  erecting  physical  walls  and 
psychological barriers among nations and peoples, even 
as  our  world  becomes  increasingly  interdependent. 
17-29597
7/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
The  ethnic  cleansing  of  the  Rohingyas  is  not  just  an 
affront to all norms of humanity but also challenges our 
collective conscience.
While the pillars of world order are being eroded, 
the imperative of international cooperation — the need 
to  address  poverty,  disease,  climate  change,  nuclear 
proliferation,  terrorism  and  forced  displacement —  is 
intensifying. Today, more than ever, we need the United 
Nations  to  provide  the  parameters,  processes  and 
platforms for global cooperation, which is essential if 
we are to address the wide-ranging challenges to peace, 
security and development.
Pakistan  welcomes 
launched  by 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  to  revitalize  the 
United  Nations  capabilities  in  peace  and  security, 
development and management. We are also committed 
to  a  reform  that  transforms  the  Security  Council  into 
a  more  representative,  democratic  and  accountable 
organ, rather than an expanded club of the powerful and 
the privileged.
the  efforts 
Pakistan  celebrated  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
its  independence  last  month.  This  month  marks  the 
seventieth anniversary of Pakistan’s membership in the 
United Nations. Pakistan’s commitment to the principles 
of the United Nations is evident from the long record of 
its constructive role in the initiatives and contributions 
that  have  shaped  the  decisions  and  discourse  at  the 
world  Organization  with  regard  to  decolonization, 
development,  trade,  international  law,  human  rights, 
refugees,  peacekeeping,  security,  disarmament  and 
United Nations budget and management.
Pakistan  has  consistently  been  one  of  the  world’s 
top troop contributors to United Nations peacekeeping. 
We  will  remain  on  the  front  lines  of  peacekeeping 
and  continue  to  offer  professional  and  well-trained 
personnel  to  the  United  Nations,  despite  our  own 
security challenges.
Our  adherence  to  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  flows  from  the  declaration  of  our 
founding father, Quaid-e-Azam Mohammad Ali Jinnah, 
who said that our foreign policy was one of friendliness 
and goodwill towards all nations of the world.
Unfortunately,  from  day  one  of  its  creation, 
Pakistan has faced unremitting hostility from its eastern 
neighbour.  India  refuses  to  implement  the  unanimous 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council,  which  mandate 
a  United  Nations-supervised  plebiscite  to  enable  the 
people  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  to  freely  decide  their 
destiny.  Instead,  India  has  deployed  nearly  700,000 
troops in occupied Kashmir to suppress the legitimate 
struggle of the Kashmiris to exercise their right to self-
determination. That represents the most intense foreign 
military occupation in recent history. As in the past, the 
Kashmiri people today are waging a heroic and popular 
struggle  to  rid  themselves  of  India’s  oppressive  rule. 
They come out in the streets daily to call on India to 
leave Jammu and Kashmir.
has 
India 
to  suppress 
responded  with  massive 
and 
indiscriminate  force 
the  Kashmiris, 
shooting  indiscriminately  at  children,  women  and 
youth.  Hundreds  of  innocent  Kashmiris  have  been 
killed or injured, and shotgun pellets have blinded and 
maimed  thousands  of  Kashmiris,  including  children. 
Those  and  other  brutalities  clearly  constitute  war 
crimes and violate the Geneva Conventions.
an 
that 
Pakistan 
demands 
international 
investigation  be  conducted  into  India’s  crimes  in 
occupied Kashmir. We ask that the Secretary-General 
and the High Commissioner for Human Rights send an 
inquiry commission to occupied Kashmir to verify the 
nature  and  extent  of  India’s  human  rights  violations, 
secure the punishment of those responsible and provide 
justice and relief to the victims.
Pakistan  also  urges  the  international  community 
to  call  on  India  to  halt  pellet-gun  attacks  and  other 
violence against unarmed demonstrators, stop the use 
of  rape  as  an  instrument  of  State  policy,  end  media 
blackouts,  rescind  its  draconian  emergency  laws  and 
free all Kashmiri political leaders. To divert the world’s 
attention from its brutalities, India frequently violates 
the  ceasefire  along  the  Line  of  Control  in  Kashmir. 
Despite  more  than  600  violations  since  January, 
Pakistan has acted with restraint, but if India ventures 
across the Line of Control, or acts upon its doctrine of 
limited war against Pakistan, it will elicit a strong and 
matching response. The international community must 
act decisively to prevent the situation from turning into 
a dangerous escalation.
The  Kashmir  dispute  should  be  resolved  justly, 
peacefully  and  expeditiously.  As  India  is  unwilling 
to resume the peace process with Pakistan, we call on 
the  Security  Council  to  fulfil  its  obligation  to  secure 
the  implementation  of  its  resolutions  on  Jammu  and 
Kashmir.  To  that  end,  the  Secretary-General  should 
appoint  a  Special  Envoy  for  Jammu  and  Kashmir. 
8/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
His  mandate  should  flow  from  the  long-standing 
but  unimplemented 
the 
Security Council.
resolutions  of 
relevant 
Let  me  reiterate  that  Pakistan  remains  open  to 
resuming a comprehensive dialogue with India aimed 
at addressing all outstanding issues, especially Jammu 
and  Kashmir,  and  discussing  measures  to  maintain 
peace and security. That dialogue must be accompanied 
by  an  end  to  India’s  campaign  of  subversion  and 
State-sponsored  terrorism  against  Pakistan,  including 
from across our western border.
Apart  from  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  Pakistan 
and its people have suffered the most from four decades 
of foreign intervention and civil wars in Afghanistan. 
Those  wars  have  blighted  our  country  with  the  flow 
of  extremists  and  terrorists,  guns  and  drugs,  as  well 
as  an  influx  of  millions  of  refugees.  They  have  set 
back  our  economic  development  by  decades.  Even 
today, Pakistan is host to more than 3 million Afghan 
refugees.  No  one  desires  peace  in  Afghanistan  more 
than  Pakistan.  From  the  16  years  of  ongoing  war  in 
Afghanistan, it is clear that peace will not be restored 
by  resorting  continuously  to  military  force.  Kabul, 
the  Coalition  and  the  Afghan  Taliban  cannot  impose 
a  military  solution  on  one  another.  The  international 
community — as expressed in several United Nations 
resolutions — has concluded that peace can be restored 
in Afghanistan only through a negotiated settlement.
Having  suffered  and  sacrificed  so  much  owing 
to  its  role  in  the  global  counter-terrorism  campaign, 
Pakistan  finds  it  especially  galling  to  be  blamed  for 
the military or political stalemate in Afghanistan. We 
are not prepared to be anyone’s scapegoat. Taliban safe 
havens are located not in Pakistan but in the large tracts 
of  territory  controlled  by  the  Taliban  in  Afghanistan. 
Yes,  cross-border  attacks  do  occur.  They  are  mostly 
conducted by anti-Pakistan terrorists from safe havens 
across the border. In order to end all cross-border attacks, 
we  ask  the  Afghan  Government  and  the  Coalition  to 
support and complement Pakistan’s ongoing efforts to 
strengthen  border  controls  and  monitor  all  movement 
across it.
What Pakistan is not prepared to do is to fight the 
Afghan  war  on  Pakistan’s  soil,  nor  can  we  endorse 
any failed strategy that will prolong and intensify the 
suffering  of  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  Pakistan  and 
other  countries  of  the  region.  Pakistan  believes  that 
the  urgent  and  realistic  goals  in  Afghanistan  should 
be:  first,  to  make  a  concerted  effort  to  eliminate  the 
presence in Afghanistan of Da’esh, Al-Qaida and their 
affiliates, including the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan and 
Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, which was recently declared a terrorist 
organization by the Security Council; and, secondly, to 
encourage negotiations between Kabul and the Afghan 
Taliban — within the framework of the Quadrilateral 
Coordination Group or any other trilateral format — to 
reach a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan. Those two 
steps offer the most realistic prospect of restoring peace 
and stability in Afghanistan and our region.
Pakistan’s counter-terrorism credentials cannot be 
questioned.  Following  the  9/11  attack  on  the  United 
States in 2001, it was Pakistani efforts that enabled the 
decimation of Al-Qaida. Pakistan’s military campaigns 
have succeeded in clearing our tribal areas of almost all 
militant groups. We took the war to the terrorists. We 
have paid a heavy price. More than 27,000 Pakistanis, 
including  6,500  military 
law-enforcement 
personnel,  have  been  martyred  by  terrorists.  Some 
50,000 Pakistani nationals have been injured, including 
15,000 army personnel, many of whom have lost limbs.
We have fought the war against terror with our own 
resources. Pakistan’s economic losses are estimated at 
more than $120 billion. Yet we remain fully committed 
to  implementing  our  national  action  plan  against 
terrorism  and  extremism.  Defeating  terrorist  violence 
is  vital  to  realizing  our  overriding  priority  of  rapid 
economic and social development.
and 
Terrorism is now a global phenomenon that must be 
addressed comprehensively. We see two major gaps in 
the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
First,  the  international  community  has  failed  to 
address  the  issue  of  State-sponsored  terrorism.  That 
is the instrument of choice of the agents of chaos and 
aspiring hegemons. In several regions, stability will be 
difficult to restore unless State-sponsored terrorism is 
condemned, prohibited and punished.
Secondly,  in  order  to  eliminate  terrorism,  its 
root  causes  must  be  addressed,  which  go  beyond 
poverty and ignorance. Terrorism is rather an extreme 
response  to  real  or  perceived  political  and/or  other 
grievances, including foreign intervention, oppression 
and  injustice.  Unless  such  root  causes  are  addressed, 
it will be difficult to counter the twisted narratives of 
terrorist groups.
17-29597
9/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
Confronted  by  a  hostile  and 
increasingly 
militarized  neighbour,  Pakistan  has  been  obliged  to 
maintain  its  capability  for  credible  deterrence.  My 
country  developed  nuclear  weapons  only  when  they 
were introduced in our region by that neighbour. Our 
strategic assets are vital in order to deter the frequent 
threat  of  aggression.  They  are  tightly  and  effectively 
controlled,  as  has  been  widely  acknowledged  by 
experts.  The  world  community  would  be  well  served 
by  enabling  Pakistan  to  join  global  non-proliferation 
arrangements, such as the Nuclear Suppliers Group, on 
a non-discriminatory basis.
Climate change poses a new and existential threat 
to  humankind’s  future.  Extreme  climate  events  are 
multiplying. Their consequences, such as the flooding 
in Texas, the landslides in Nepal and Sierra Leone, the 
devastation wrought by hurricanes in the Caribbean and 
Puerto Rico, and the disappearance of the Himalayan 
glaciers, are global and indiscriminate. As one of the 
States most vulnerable to the effects of climate change, 
Pakistan believes that it is in our collective interest to 
pursue and realize the goals of the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change and build a new and greener model for 
growth and development.
represent 
Growth  and  development  remain  the  primary 
goals  of  developing  countries.  The  United  Nations 
Sustainable  Development  Goals 
the 
most  ambitious  development  agenda 
in  history. 
The  development  challenge  has  become  even  more 
difficult owing to the combined constraints of climate 
change,  increasing  protectionism,  the  deterioration 
of  international  cooperation  and  the  proliferation  of 
conflicts.  The  vision  of  shared  growth  spelled  out  in 
Chinese President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative 
offers a solid path to prosperity and a model of South-
South cooperation worthy of emulation.
Pakistan’s  economy  has  recorded  a  remarkable 
revival  over  the  past  four  years.  The  China-Pakistan 
Economic  Corridor  will  further  contribute  to  our 
economic  upsurge.  That  will  expand  exponentially  as 
the Pakistan-China partnership extends beyond energy 
and  transportation  to  many  other  sectors.  Pakistan’s 
integration  into  the  Eurasian  Belt  and  Road  Initiative 
will  provide  a  firm  foundation  for  Pakistan’s  rapid 
economic development. With a youthful population of 
207 million people, we are confident that an economic 
strategy  anchored  in  rising  incomes,  consumption 
and  production  will  propel  Pakistan  towards  greater 
prosperity.  To  achieve  those  priority  goals  for  our 
people,  Pakistan  seeks  to  build  peace  within  our 
country  and  security  around  our  borders.  We  seek 
good relations with all States on the basis of sovereign 
equality.  We  will  respond  positively  to  all  offers  of 
friendship and cooperation.
We  are  poised  at  a  critical  inflection  point  in 
history.  The  world  order  that  has  prevented  a  global 
war  for  more  than  70  years  is  under  threat.  Yet 
revolutionary advances in science and technology, the 
immense  capacity  for  global  investment,  production, 
consumption  and  trade,  especially  in  the  developing 
countries,  and 
the  availability  of  structures  and 
mechanisms for collective action offer an opportunity, 
unprecedented in human history, to address the diverse 
challenges  that  we  face  today.  It  is  here,  through  the 
United Nations, that the peoples of the world can seize 
the opportunities to achieve our shared vision of a more 
just, peaceful and prosperous world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Pakistan for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, Prime Minister of the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Pravind  Kumar  Jugnauth, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs, 
and  National 
External  Communications 
Development  Unit,  Minister 
for  Finance 
and  Economic  Development  of  the  Republic 
of Mauritius
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Home 
Affairs,  External  Communications  and  National 
Development Unit, Minister for Finance and Economic 
Development of the Republic of Mauritius.
Mr.  Pravind  Kumar  Jugnauth,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister 
for  Home  Affairs,  External 
Communications and National Development Unit, 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Economic  Development 
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in  welcome 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Pravind  Kumar  Jugnauth,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Home  Affairs,  External 
Communications  and  National  Development  Unit, 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Economic  Development  of 
10/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
the Republic of Mauritius, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
comes  to  global  governance.  It  is  time  to  correct  that 
gross injustice.
Mr.  Jugnauth  (Mauritius):  Let  me  begin  by 
expressing  my  deepest  sympathy  and  solidarity  with 
the  people  and  the  Government  of  Mexico  following 
the devastating earthquake that has taken the lives of 
hundreds of men, women and children.
It is a great honour for me to address the General 
Assembly  for  the  first  time  as  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Mauritius.  I  am  here  today  to  reaffirm  my  country’s 
continued  commitment  to  the  universal  values  of 
the Organization.
I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  the 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session. I assure you of our total support as you steer 
the  work  of  the  Assembly.  The  six  priorities  that  you 
have identified under the theme of focusing on people 
echo our own aspirations as a nation.
We extend our warm congratulations to Mr. António 
Guterres  on  his  appointment  as  the  new  Secretary-
General.  I  commend  him  for  the  multidimensional 
vision  he  has  for  the  United  Nations  and  for  the 
process that he has initiated on the repositioning of the 
United Nations development system to effectively and 
efficiently deliver on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. We also welcome the consultative process 
that he has initiated with Member States in that regard. 
We  fully  support  his  initiative  and  encourage  him  to 
make greater use of modern communication technology 
and of local capacities in the implementation of United 
Nations-sponsored projects. We also appreciate his view 
that the reform we seek is but part of a larger reform of 
the United Nations system, including the revitalization 
of the role of the General Assembly.
The  last  time  there  was  a  reform  of  the  Security 
Council was in 1965. That was more than 50 years ago, 
and Assembly membership then stood at 117. We now 
have 193 Member States. The Security Council needs 
to  reflect  those  changes,  and  that  should  be  done  at 
the earliest. I believe the time has now come for us to 
proceed  with  text-based  negotiations  to  be  concluded 
within  an  agreed  time  frame.  The  African  Common 
Position  on  this  matter,  which  has  so  far  not  been 
challenged,  can  with  appropriate  additions  provide  a 
basis  for  such  negotiations.  Mauritius  fully  supports 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  Africa’s  aspiration  for 
a  more  pronounced  role  in  the  Security  Council.  For 
far  too  long,  Africa  has  been  left  on  the  side  when  it 
We  also  fully  support  India’s  aspiration  to  a  seat 
on the Security Council. We equally believe that small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS)  must  play  a  more 
prominent  role  in  the  Security  Council  and  that  their 
call  for  a  dedicated  non-permanent  seat  is  legitimate 
and appropriate.
and 
effort, 
constant 
The  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  requires 
tremendous 
negotiation, 
understanding  and  compromise.  Mauritius  voted  in 
favour of the adoption of the Treaty on the Prohibition 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  last  July,  and  we  hope  to  see 
complete  denuclearization  throughout  the  world.  We 
urge all those involved in potential conflicts around the 
world, especially where there is a possibility of nuclear 
weapons being used, to exercise restraint and promote 
dialogue  instead  of  belligerent  posturing,  which  only 
feeds unrest and dangerous escalation.
We  urge  restraint  and  dialogue  in  Myanmar, 
where  violence  continues  to  displace  thousands  of 
people and has caused numerous victims. We make an 
appeal  for  the  unrestricted  provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance  to  all  those  affected.  We  also  call  for  the 
early  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the 
Advisory Commission on Rakhine State with a view to 
finding a long-lasting solution.
Despite our best efforts, terrorism continues to claim 
innocent lives and undermine the sovereignty of States. 
We condemn terrorism in all its forms, wherever they 
occur, and we stand in solidarity with the Governments 
and  the  peoples  that  are  victims  of  terrorism.  We 
congratulate the Secretary-General on establishing the 
United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism. We expect 
the  new  Office  to  provide  leadership,  coordination 
and  coherence,  to  strengthen  assistance  for  capacity-
building  to  Member  States,  and  to  improve  visibility, 
advocacy and resource mobilization for United Nations 
counter-terrorism efforts. We also need to address the 
root causes of that scourge, and we expect the Office to 
provide valuable input in that regard.
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  plight 
of  the  Palestinian  people  continue  to  be  issues  of 
great  concern.  We  call  on  all  sides  to  sincerely  start 
talks  for  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  Palestinian  issue. 
Mauritius  has  always  supported  a  two-State  solution, 
with Palestine and Israel living peacefully side by side. 
17-29597
11/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
An independent and viable Palestine is more likely to 
provide security both to Israel and the region.
Mauritius  highly  values  the  importance  of  its 
integration within Africa and believes in the universal 
benefits  of  the  continental  integration  of  Africa. 
The  Agenda  2063  of  the  African  Union,  adopted 
in  January  2015,  is  in  consonance  with  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  provides 
a  strategy  for  development  that  is  people-driven  and 
respectful  of  the  rule  of  law.  That  vision  of  Africa 
will  be  carried  by  its  people  and  youth,  and  Africa 
is  today  home  to  a  growing  youthful  population  and 
experiencing  increased  urbanization.  Along  with  the 
digital  transformation  of  the  continent,  improving 
infrastructure  and  connectivity,  and  its  rich  wind, 
hydro  and  solar  capacity,  Africa  has  the  potential  of 
becoming  a  beacon  for  sustainable  development.  It  is 
geared  to  become  a  driver  of  economic  growth  and  a 
huge consumer market.
In  July, 
the  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development met to review the status of the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda two years after its 
adoption. I would like to congratulate the 44 countries 
that  presented  their  voluntary  national  reviews.  In 
Mauritius, a coordinating mechanism has been set up 
for  implementing  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) . We are in the process of consultations with the 
private sector, civil society and other stakeholders, and 
we  expect  to  submit  our  voluntary  national  review  at 
the next High-level Political Forum, in 2018.
Addressing climate change is central and critical to 
the successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda. With 
the increasing number and intensity of climate-related 
disasters, including storms, droughts and flash floods, 
it would be naïve on our part to dismiss climate change. 
We have just recently witnessed the devastating violence 
of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. I would like to express 
my Government’s deep sympathy to and solidarity with 
the Governments and the peoples of the islands of the 
Caribbean and the United States for the lives lost in the 
devastating trails of those hurricanes.
Mitigating  the  effects  of  climate  change  and 
effectively  implementing  the  Sendai  Framework  for 
Disaster  Risk  Reduction  will  require  substantial 
effort  and  resources,  especially  for  SIDS,  if  we  want 
to  be  more  resilient  in  the  aftermath  of  those  natural 
calamities. Although we welcome the generous pledges 
made thus far, including the establishment of the Green 
Climate Fund, we need to streamline and simplify the 
procedures for SIDS to access those funds, especially 
in the light of recent events.
This year’s High-level Political Forum recognized 
the specific challenges faced by SIDS and middle-income 
countries.  Classification  as  a  middle-income  country 
renders  SIDS  such  as  Mauritius  ineligible  for  most 
official development assistance (ODA) and concessional 
funding.  Middle-income  countries  are  often  victims 
of their success in graduating from the status of least 
developed country and run the risk of getting stuck in 
the middle-income trap. Middle-income SIDS such as 
Mauritius aspire to be partners in development rather 
than mere recipients of ODA. With the help of the United 
Nations  development  system  and  other  partners,  as 
well as the provision of tailor-made programmes, those 
countries  can  contribute  to  the  sharing  of  experience 
and  knowledge  with  countries  aspiring  to  graduate 
from LDC status and consolidate their own economic 
development at the same time.
Oceans are of vital importance to SIDS. Mauritius, 
with  its  exclusive  economic  zone  of  more  than 
2.3  million  square  kilometres,  is  a  large-ocean  State. 
That  is  why  my  Government  has  developed  an  ocean 
strategy  covering  fisheries,  tourism  and  deep-ocean-
water applications, as well as resource exploration and 
exploitation.  We  call  on  our  partners  to  assist  us  in 
implementing that strategy, as expressed in paragraph 
13  (q)  of  the  Call  for  Action  of  the  United  Nations 
Ocean Conference.
Mauritius  is  honoured  to  co-chair  the  High-level 
Panel  on  Water  convened  by  the  former  Secretary-
General  and  the  President  of  the  World  Bank.  The 
Panel met today to take stock of the progress achieved 
following the adoption of its action plan in September 
2016, which called for a transformative approach to the 
management of water resources. The outcome package 
of the Panel is expected to make concrete proposals for 
the achievement of the targets of SDG 6, and we hope 
that all world leaders will support it.
Adherence 
to 
international 
law,  safeguarding 
fundamental human rights and respect for the territorial 
integrity  of  countries  underpin  relations  among 
countries. With regard to Mauritius, all those principles 
were  flouted  when  an  integral  part  of  its  territory, 
namely,  the  Chagos  Archipelago,  was  excised  prior 
to  its  independence,  in  violation  of  international  law, 
including obligations reflected in resolutions 1514 (XV), 
12/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
of 14 December 1960 and 2066 (XX), of 16 December 
1965, and all the inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago 
were  forcibly  evicted.  Our  decolonization  remains  to 
be  completed  five  decades  following  the  adoption  of 
the  Declaration  on  the  Granting  of  Independence  to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples.
A crucial role of the International Court of Justice 
is  to  provide  guidance  through  its  advisory  opinions 
to the organs and agencies of our Organization for the 
fulfilment of their responsibilities. It is in that spirit that 
States members of the Group of African States proposed 
a resolution in June seeking an advisory opinion of the 
International Court of Justice on the legal consequences 
of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  from 
Mauritius  in  1965.  We  were  very  pleased  that  the 
resolution was adopted, and even more so by the fact 
that  it  was  by  such  a  resounding  majority.  That  vote 
demonstrated the great importance that Member States 
from across the globe — not just in Africa, but also in 
Europe,  Asia  and  the  Americas  —  attach  to  the  need 
to  complete  the  process  of  decolonization,  as  well  as 
their  concern  for  the  injustices  caused  to  the  evicted 
inhabitants of the Chagos Archipelago. As a matter of 
fact,  that  overwhelming  vote  has  renewed  their  hope 
that they might finally return to their place of birth.
The United Nations membership has indeed made 
it clear that it wishes to see the decolonization process 
of Mauritius completed, and, to that end, has turned to 
the International Court of Justice for guidance. We are 
hopeful that the Court’s advisory opinion will not only 
guide the important work of the General Assembly, but 
will  also  allow  Mauritius  to  move  forward,  including 
with  an  appropriate  programme  in  favour  of  the 
inhabitants  who  were  displaced  from  that  part  of  the 
Mauritian territory. Many members had the opportunity 
in June to see an exhibition on the tragedy surrounding 
that eviction and to interact with those who were forced 
to leave in such inhumane conditions.
We  thank  Member  States  for  their  support  and 
look forward to their continued encouragement as we 
complete our decolonization. In this regard, we express 
the hope that as many Member States as possible will 
contribute  to  the  proceedings  in  which  the  Court  has 
invited them to participate.
I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm that 
Mauritius has no intention of seeking the disruption of 
the security arrangements currently in place in Diego 
Garcia, the largest island of the Chagos archipelago. I 
would also like to reiterate what successive Mauritian 
Governments have clearly stated. Mauritius is willing 
to  enter  into  a  long-term  renewable  lease  with  the 
United States to allow these security arrangements to 
remain in place. In this regard, completing the process 
of  decolonization  will  enhance  security  by  providing 
legality and certainty.
With respect to Tromelin, which has always formed 
and continues to form an integral part of the territory of 
Mauritius, we welcome the constructive progress made 
with France, including the agreement reached in 2010.
During this seventy-second session of the General 
Assembly, we have an opportunity to commit ourselves 
to  agreements  and  decisions  that  would  considerably 
improve  the  lives  of  ordinary  people  all  around  the 
world. As we prepare to turn this planet over to later 
generations, I would renew our commitment to striving 
for a world where peace, security and prosperity do not 
remain mere distant dreams.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Home Affairs, External Communications and National 
Development Unit, Minister for Finance and Economic 
Development  of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Pravind  Kumar  Jugnauth,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister 
for  Home  Affairs,  External 
Communications and National Development Unit, 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Economic  Development 
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of 
the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the People’s Republic 
of Bangladesh.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was 
to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the 
People’s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and  inviting  her  to 
address the Assembly.
escorted 
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 
English text provided by the delegation): Mr. President, 
17-29597
13/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
let me extend my heartiest felicitations on your election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. My delegation assures you of our full 
support in discharging your priorities on people, peace 
and planet.
This is the fourteenth time I  address the General 
Assembly, and this time I have come here with a heavy 
heart.  I  have  come  here  just  after  seeing  the  hungry, 
distressed and hopeless Rohingya from Myanmar who 
have  taken  shelter  in  Cox’s  Bazar,  Bangladesh.  This 
forcibly  displaced  people  of  Myanmar  are  fleeing  an 
ethnic cleansing in their own country, where they have 
been living for centuries. I can feel their pain because 
I  and  my  younger  sister  were  refugees  for  six  years 
after my father, the Father of the Nation of Bangladesh, 
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and almost all 
members of my family were assassinated in 1975.
In  1974,  in  Bangladesh’s  first-ever  address  to  the 
General Assembly, my father said,
“I  know  that  the  souls  of  our  martyrs  join  us  in 
pledging  that  the  Bangalee  nation  fully  commits 
itself to the building of a world order in which the 
aspiration of all men for peace and justice will be 
realized” (A/PV.2243, para. 2).
We  are  currently  sheltering  more  than  800,000 
forcibly  displaced  Rohingya  from  Myanmar.  The 
ongoing  atrocities  and  human  rights  violations  in  the 
Rakhine state of Myanmar have once again aggravated 
the  situation  at  the  Bangladesh-Myanmar  border. 
Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya from Rakhine state 
are entering Bangladesh to flee violence. As estimated 
by the International Organization for Migration, in the 
past three weeks alone, over 430,000 Rohingya entered 
Bangladesh. We are horrified to see that the Myanmar 
authorities are laying landmines along their stretch of 
the border to prevent the Rohingya from returning to 
their  country.  This  people  must  be  able  to  return  to 
their homeland in safety, security and dignity.
At  the  same  time,  I  also  condemn  every  kind  of 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism.  Our  Government 
maintains  a  zero-tolerance  policy  in  this  regard.  I 
thank  the  Secretary-General  and  members  of  the 
Security  Council  for  their  proactive  attempts  to  stop 
the atrocities and bring peace and stability to Rakhine 
state in Myanmar.
I  further  call  on  the  United  Nations  and  the 
immediate  and 
international  community 
to 
take 
effective  measures  in  order  to  achieve  a  permanent 
solution  to  this  protracted  Rohingya  crisis.  In  this 
regard, I propose the following actions. First, Myanmar 
must  unconditionally,  immediately  and  permanently 
stop  the  violence  and  the  practice  of  ethnic  cleansing 
in  Rakhine  state.  Secondly,  the  Secretary-General 
should  immediately  send  a  fact-finding  mission  to 
Myanmar. Thirdly, all civilians irrespective of religion 
and  ethnicity  must  be  protected  in  Myanmar.  To  that 
end, safe zones could be created inside Myanmar under 
United  Nations  supervision.  Fourthly,  the  sustainable 
return of all forcibly displaced Rohingya in Bangladesh 
to  their  homes  in  Myanmar  must  be  ensured.  Fifthly, 
the  recommendations  of  the  Kofi  Annan  Foundation 
Advisory Commission report must be immediately and 
unconditionally implemented in their entirety.
In the 1971 war of liberation against Pakistan, we 
endured an extreme form of genocide. In the nine-month 
war,  some  3  million  innocent  people  were  killed  and 
more  than  200,000  women  violated.  The  Pakistani 
military  launched  the  heinous  Operation  Searchlight 
on 25 March, marking the start of the 1971 genocide. 
This  genocide  involved  the  targeted  elimination  of 
individuals on the grounds of religion, race and political 
belief. Intellectuals were brutally killed. To pay homage 
to the victims of the genocide, our national parliament 
recently declared 25 March Genocide Day.
In  Bangladesh,  we  have  already  undertaken  the 
daunting task of bringing the key perpetrators to justice 
through  the  International  Crimes  Tribunal.  I  urge  the 
international  community  to  take  collective  action  to 
prevent the recurrence of such heinous crimes as these 
anywhere  anytime.  I  believe  that  acknowledging  past 
tragedies such as the 1971 genocide could guide us to 
achieving “never again”.
Since  our  birth  as  a  nation,  we  have  pursued 
peace-centric  domestic  and  foreign  policies.  In  that 
spirit,  Bangladesh  has  taken  the  lead  in  introducing 
the resolution on a culture of peace every year in the 
General Assembly since 2000.
We  reaffirm  the  call  for  a  resumption  of  the 
Middle  East  peace  process  and  for  ending  all  forms 
of  hostilities  and  discrimination  against  the  brotherly 
Palestinian people.
In  recognition  of  the  potential  role  of  the  United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture,  we  look  forward 
to  receiving  bold  and  innovative  proposals  from  the 
Secretary-General on financing for sustaining peace. I 
14/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
am pleased to announce a contribution of $100,000 from 
Bangladesh for the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund.
As a major troop- and police-contributing country, 
Bangladesh  underscores  the  importance  of  upholding 
the  effectiveness  and  credibility  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  We  shall  maintain  our  own 
capability  readiness,  remain  open  to  further  smart 
pledges,  enhance  the  scope  of  our  peacekeeping 
training and deploy more female peacekeepers.
We  maintain  a  zero-tolerance  approach  to  any 
allegation  of  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse.  As 
an  endorser  of  the  Voluntary  Compact  on  Sexual 
Exploitation  and  Abuse,  I  am  committed  to  the 
Secretary-General’s Circle of Leadership to combat this 
scourge. I am also pleased to announce a contribution 
of $100,000 to the Victim Support Fund established for 
this purpose.
Terrorism  and  violent  extremism  have  become 
a  major  threat  to  peace,  stability  and  development. 
Terrorists have no religion, belief or race. Having been 
the  target  of  a  number  of  terrorist  attacks  myself,  I 
personally empathize with the victims of terrorism and 
appreciate their need for protection.
We  denounce 
to 
the  use  of  religion 
justify 
violent  extremism.  I  have  involved  families,  women, 
young  people,  the  media  and  religious  leaders  at 
the  community  level  to  offset  the  spread  of  violent 
extremism.  In  this  regard,  I  reiterate  my  calls,  first, 
for stopping the supply of arms to terrorists; secondly, 
for preventing terrorist financing; and, thirdly, for the 
peaceful settlement of all international disputes. I also 
urge the United Nations to address the growing threats 
emanating from cyberspace in order to prevent money-
laundering, terrorist financing and other transnational 
organized crimes.
We believe in promoting safe, orderly and regular 
migration. Last year, we proposed developing a sound 
migration  governance  framework  through  the  global 
compact  on  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration.  I  am 
pleased  that  the  United  Nations  is  delivering  on  the 
formation of the compact for migration and refugees.
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change remains 
our bastion of hope for climate justice. By recognizing 
climate vulnerability, we are building resilience against 
the  grave  impacts  of  climate  change.  We  believe  in 
the  potential  of  the  blue  economy  in  advancing  the 
conservation and sustainable use of the ocean and seas.
Bangladesh  has  achieved  exemplary  success  in 
building  resilience  against  flood  and  other  disasters. 
Crop intensification and the invention of water-resistant 
crops have helped us achieve self-sufficiency in food. 
We have efficiently responded to the massive flood that 
struck the entire South Asian region this year.
As  a  member  of  the  United  Nations  High-level 
Panel on Water, I attach high priority to implementing 
its  comprehensive  action  plan.  Bangladesh  ensured 
access to safe water for 87 per cent of its population by 
2015, and we aim for full access to safe water for our 
population by 2030.
We believe that there are close links between peace, 
stability and development. We share the conviction that 
addressing  poverty,  hunger,  illiteracy,  unemployment 
and inequality is crucial to building peaceful, just and 
inclusive societies. We are committed to implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  In  that 
regard,  our  Government  has  adopted  a  whole-of-
society approach. The SDGs complement our vision to 
transform Bangladesh into a middle-income country by 
2021 and a developed one by 2041.
Even before the adoption of the SDGs, we initiated 
unique  social  programmes  that  reflect  the  themes  of 
the SDGs, such as the Ekti Bari Ekti Khamar — “One 
Household One Farm” project; community clinics; the 
Ashrayan  shelter  project  and  the  Digital  Bangladesh 
initiative. We also promote education support, women’s 
empowerment,  education  for  all,  the  social  safety 
net,  environmental  protection,  and  investment  and 
development. Our voluntary national review presented 
to the United Nations this year showcased our progress 
in and commitment to achieving the SDGs.
In 2016-2017, Bangladesh’s economy posted a gross 
domestic product growth rate of more than 7.24 per cent, 
and our foreign currency reserves reached $32.1 billion. 
We have lowered the poverty rate from 56.7 per cent in 
1991 to 23.2 per cent today. Our per capita income is 
expected  to  grow  to  $1,602  by  the  end  of  the  current 
fiscal  year,  from  only  $543  in  2005-2006.  Our  life 
expectancy  has  increased  to  almost  72  years.  These 
figures are indications of our inclusive development, in 
which no citizen is left behind.
To  ensure  inclusive  growth,  promote  investment 
and employment opportunities for all, we have launched 
an  initiative  to  develop  100  special  economic  zones 
around  the  country.  Our  extensive  social  safety  net 
measures give coverage to many vulnerable segments 
17-29597
15/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
of  our  population,  including  the  elderly,  persons  with 
disabilities, victims of domestic violence and vulnerable 
mothers under economic hardship.
Special  emphasis  has  been  given  to  unlocking 
the  potentials  of  physically  challenged  children  and 
people.  Some  103  service  and  care  centres,  along 
with  32  mobile  therapy  vans,  attend  to  the  needs  of 
persons  with  disabilities,  including  those  affected  by 
autism.  A  total  of  18,500  community  health  clinics 
are  being  complemented  by  medical  services  through 
the use of mobile phones and web cameras in districts 
and subdistricts.
There is now a public primary school in every village 
of the country, and 38,331 educational institutions have 
been equipped with digital laboratories and multimedia 
classrooms.  Special  emphasis  is  being  placed  on 
promoting  technical  and  vocational  education  and 
training for young people.
Our  youth  are  the  main  movers  in  realizing  my 
vision for a knowledge-based, digital Bangladesh. We 
are working to create an environment to allow them to 
pursue transformative education, find decent jobs and 
turn into truly global citizens.
I am happy to announce that Bangabandhu-1, our 
very first satellite, is scheduled to be launched this year 
on our Victory Day, 16 December.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that we do 
not want war. We want peace. We seek the well-being 
of humankind, not its destruction. We want sustainable 
development. Let this be our collective goal.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh  for  the  statement  she  has 
just made.
Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted 
from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Vanuatu.
Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Charlot Salwai Tabimasmas, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr. Tabimasmas (Vanuatu) (spoke in French): It is 
a great honour for me to make this statement on behalf 
of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic  of 
Vanuatu.  I  join  other  speakers  in  congratulating  His 
Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second  session.  As  an  elected  Vice-President  of  this 
organ, Vanuatu is pleased to work closely with you, Sir, 
as you guide us through this session. Please be assured 
that you have the full support of my delegation.
I  would  also  like  to  commend  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Peter  Thomson  for  his  vision,  leadership  and 
dedication  during  his  tenure  as  President  of  the 
Assembly  during  the  seventy-first  session.  Allow  me 
also to express my profound gratitude to the Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. António Guterres, for his 
notable leadership to this day.
On behalf of my people, the people of Vanuatu, I 
extend  my  heartfelt  condolences  to  the  victims  of  the 
earthquake  in  Mexico,  to  the  victims  of  Hurricanes 
Maria and Irma, which devastated the Caribbean, and 
to  the  victims  of  Hurricane  Harvey,  which  ravaged 
Texas.
My delegation welcomes the theme of the seventy-
second session of the General Assembly, “Focusing on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a  sustainable  planet”.  This  is  a  timely  and  necessary 
theme. It is timely because, when we look around, we 
see a world plunged in endless political conflicts and 
turmoil. We are witnessing an escalation of extremism 
and  violence  caused  by  racism,  xenophobia,  hostility 
and  intolerance.  The  theme  is  also  necessary  because 
we  must  remember  that  the  human  being  and  a 
sustainable future are at the heart of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
Today,  72  years  after  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations,  doubts  continue  to  weigh  on  us.  When  will 
all  nations,  rich  and  poor,  and  people  of  all  races, 
learn  to  live  together  in  peace,  embracing  diversity 
and practicing tolerance? We must ask ourselves when 
conflicts  and  wars  will  become  scourges  of  the  past. 
At  one  time  or  another  in  the  last  72  years,  we  have 
failed in our duty to be a United Nations endeavouring 
to achieve the economic and social advancement of all 
16/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
our  peoples  and  to  join  forces  to  promote  peace  and 
security in the world.
The world continues to face economic and political 
challenges,  and  the  world  economy  remains  confined 
to  a  prolonged  period  of  slow  growth,  with  a  global 
gross product estimated to grow by some 2.7 per cent 
in  2017.  This  is  only  an  economic  stabilization  and 
does  not  respond  to  growth  in  world  demand.  The 
rise of terrorism, violent extremism, asymmetric wars 
and  political  instability  in  the  world  have  reached  an 
unprecedented level in 2017 and will continue to weigh 
on the economic prospects of many regions.
Vanuatu continues to be seriously concerned about 
the  large  movements  of  refugees  and  migrants,  many 
of  whom  are  fleeing  violent  conflict,  disasters  and 
poverty. In 2016, some 65 million people were forcibly 
displaced around the world. The rural exodus to the city 
and a relatively high rate of urbanization also present 
the same challenges at the national level.
Vanuatu  notes  with  deep  concern  the  irrefutable 
link between the global crisis and the failure to respect 
the  principles  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  and  the 
prevention  of  mass  atrocity  crimes  in  Syria,  Iraq, 
Yemen and South Sudan, to cite only a few.
As  a  small  island  State  exposed  to  the  rising  sea 
level  that  will  overwhelm  its  islands  and  force  its 
people  to  seek  refuge,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  the 
international community to mobilize its efforts and to 
begin the debate on the establishment of an international 
legal  framework  that  will  truly  solve  the  problem  of 
climate-change refugees from small island States.
As a small island State in the Pacific, Vanuatu is a 
strong supporter of a rules-based international regime 
through which States act fairly and transparently with 
each other, and through which economic development 
could come to fruition and where peace and security in 
the world could be maintained. That is why Vanuatu has 
faith in the United Nations. The United Nations remains 
for Vanuatu the best hope and catalyst for regional and 
global peace and security. I would like to highlight the 
valuable and potential work that this body has done to 
lift millions out of poverty, promote and protect human 
rights,  and  bring  about  an  international  order  seen  in 
much of the world today. However, to remain relevant, 
there is a need for strategic reforms.
Being  a  permanent  member  of 
the  Security 
Council is more a responsibility than a privilege. It is 
therefore  incumbent  on  the  Council  to  disregard  the 
political interests of both sides and to seek compromise 
solutions.  It  is  essential  to  ensure  that  the  Security 
Council meets the objectives, principles and promises 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  support  the 
reforms  of  the  Security  Council  that  reflect  current 
geopolitical dynamics and provide for a more equitable 
regional representation as well as a continuous reform 
of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  to 
better  prevent  and  resolve  complex  conflicts  in  our 
contemporary world and to better protect civilians.
My  Government  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on repositioning the United Nations 
development  system  to  deliver  on  the  2030  Agenda 
(A/72/124).  I  am  particularly  encouraged  by  the  fact 
that the report highlights the need to have more robust 
coordination and accountability procedures within the 
United Nations system and realign it to better respond 
to  countries’  efforts  to  implement  the  transformative 
2030 Agenda.
Earlier 
this  year,  we 
launched  our  national 
sustainable  development  plan  to  2030,  also  known 
as  the  People’s  Plan,  which  encompasses  sustainable 
development  goals.  We  know  that  the  way  ahead 
to  implement  this  national  road  map  will  be  tough, 
given  structural  weaknesses,  extreme  weather  events, 
frequent  earthquakes  and  external  economic  shocks. 
Vanuatu has ranked as one of the most disaster-prone 
countries for four years in a row. To make the path even 
more  difficult,  the  General  Assembly  has  planned  to 
remove  Vanuatu’s  status  as  a  least  developed  country 
(LDC) in December 2020. Unfortunately, the fact that 
we have developed and emerged from LDC status does 
not  mean  that  we  have  eliminated  our  vulnerabilities 
and structural barriers.
My Government calls on the United Nations to ensure 
that the change in the status of a country like ours does 
not cause disruption or hamper our development. The 
measures in place to support the change in LDC status 
are simply insufficient given the challenges that these 
countries  will  face.  The  transition  mechanisms  after 
such  a  change  must  be  further  strengthened.  Vanuatu 
calls  on  the  United  Nations  to  continue  to  recognize 
Vanuatu as an LDC, rather than completely eliminating 
the specific support for it as an LDC. We also call on 
development  partners  and  aid  agencies  to  consider 
gradually reducing LDC development assistance. There 
should  be  clear  provisions  for  reducing  trade  benefits 
17-29597
17/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
to LDCs, stipulated in bilateral agreements and by the 
World Trade Organization.
My  Government  is  also  concerned  about  threats 
to  peace  and  security  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region.  The 
provocative  missile  programme  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  violates  several  Security 
Council resolutions and poses an unprecedented threat 
to security in the region and around the world. Vanuatu 
condemns in the strongest terms the most recent round 
of  missile  launches  and  joins  with  the  international 
community  in  encouraging  the  Administration  of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  end  its 
nuclear and missile development programme. We also 
call  on  the  United  Nations  to  find  common  ground 
with  the  Republic  and  to  engage  in  dialogue  for  a 
peaceful solution. 
My  Government  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
denuclearization of the Pacific and welcomes the Treaty 
adopted at the conference to negotiate a legally binding 
instrument banning nuclear weapons. Vanuatu reaffirms 
its commitment to complete nuclear disarmament.
The report on regionalism recently published by the 
Pacific Islands Forum secretariat provides a geopolitical 
assessment  of  the  trends,  threats  and  opportunities 
for  regional  development  and  political  aspirations. 
It  includes  strategies  that  Forum  members  can  use  to 
build a stronger, more resilient and responsive Pacific 
region. We in the Pacific know how important it is to 
work in unison, because it is through unity that we are 
stronger and can achieve positive results. Similarly, the 
actions of the United Nations are more decisive when 
members are united.
Our understanding of the science of climate change 
has deepened over the past few years, and its devastating 
impact  knows  no  borders.  The  terrible  earthquake  in 
Mexico,  Hurricane  Maria  and  Hurricane  Irma  in  the 
Caribbean,  Hurricane  Harvey  in  Texas  and  tropical 
storm  Pam,  which  devastated  Vanuatu  in  2015,  are 
brutal warnings from Mother Nature that the climate is 
changing faster than our efforts to counter that change. 
Solving a problem that has taken centuries to manifest 
itself  requires  more  reflection  and  effort  on  our  part. 
By  collectively  reducing  the  rate  at  which  we  emit 
greenhouse gases, we can make a major difference. We 
can  limit  the  average  rise  in  temperature  to  less  than 
1.5°C, change the chemistry of the oceans, manage sea-
level rise and prevent disasters for generations to come. 
We urge all States Members of the United Nations to 
persevere. We therefore urge the United States, as part 
of  the  one  world  we  have,  to  reverse  its  decision  and 
enforce the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
My  country  is  deeply  concerned  about  climate 
change and the Paris Agreement, and we are committed 
to reversing the decline in the health of our oceans. The 
United  Nations  Ocean  Conference,  held  here  in  New 
York in June, has shown that the quality of the oceans, 
which contribute to our livelihoods, has been seriously 
undermined and that urgent and immediate attention on 
our  part  is  required,  now  more  than  ever  before.  We 
are from an island nation surrounded by a vast ocean 
and know how important it is. We are very concerned 
about the health of the ocean because it has an impact 
on humankind’s survival. 
My Government is committed to implementing the 
resolutions  of  the  Conference,  including  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  14,  by  2030,  through  partnerships 
and  national  efforts.  We  are  committed  to  achieving 
our national goal of 100 per cent renewable energy by 
2030,  with  the  support  of  our  development  partners. 
We  have  launched  our  national  oceans  policy,  but  we 
will also ban the use of plastic bags by 2018 in order 
to reduce the amount of ocean debris and preserve its 
health. At the Pacific Islands Forum Leaders meeting in 
Apia, I called on the leaders and peoples of the Pacific 
island  countries  to  join  Vanuatu  in  this  struggle  and 
to be more responsible in preserving our blue Pacific 
Ocean in order to guarantee human survival.
My  Government  remains  fully  committed 
to 
achieving its national sustainable development plan. We 
have begun to meet the challenge of turning our goals 
into tangible action. My Government pledges to submit 
Vanuatu’s  voluntary  report  in  mid-2018.  We  hope  to 
share  our  progress  and  our  failures  in  meeting  our 
sustainable  development  goals,  while  fully  respecting 
the continuity of the partnership for the achievement of 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Vanuatu is convinced that in order to end poverty, 
opportunities  for  all  people,  in  particular  women, 
must be made available. Greater access must be given 
to  education,  nutrition  and  health.  My  Government 
is  committed 
that 
disproportionately  affect  our  vulnerable  groups.  We 
successfully  launched  our  national  policies  on  gender 
equality  and  the  protection  of  children  in  November 
2016.  Both  policies  take  into  account  violence  and 
discrimination  against  women  and  girls,  as  well  as 
to  eliminating 
the  barriers 
18/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
the  neglect,  exploitation  and  abuse  of  and  violence 
against children. We are also aware that a balanced and 
equitable  distribution  of  the  necessary  resources  and 
infrastructure in our provinces will help to develop the 
provinces and reduce poverty.
My  Government  is  committed  to  ensuring  a 
peaceful,  just  and  inclusive  society  and  to  building 
responsive  institutions  capable  of  delivering  quality 
services to our citizens. We work with our development 
partners  to  enhance  the  resilience  and  adaptability  of 
our peoples to climate change and natural disasters. My 
Government is committed to structural reform to ensure 
political and economic stability, based on equitable and 
sustainable growth that would create jobs and increase 
our citizens’ incomes.
My  Government  sincerely  thanks  our  traditional 
development  partners  for  their  contribution  to  the 
economic  development  of  our  country.  We  are  ready 
to  forge  new  partnerships  to  further  stimulate  our 
productive and infrastructure sectors. 
My  Government  is  concerned  about  the  fact  that 
the  United  Nations  has  lost  much  of  its  ability  and 
willingness  to  implement  Security  Council  resolution 
1514 (1960), of 14 December 1960, which called for an 
swift  and  unconditional  end  to  colonialism  in  all  its 
forms and manifestations. Decolonization must return 
to the agenda of the United Nations, and all efforts must 
be free of the pressures of international politics. We all 
have  a  collective  responsibility  to  guarantee  the  self-
determination of peoples under the colonial yoke. 
We firmly believe that territorial disputes should be 
resolved peacefully, while respecting cultural heritage 
and  adhering  to  United  Nations  conventions  and  to 
the  provisions  of  international  law  of  the  sea.  In  that 
regard, I should like to point out that there have been 
recent incursions into disputed areas of Vanuatu, which 
is not in keeping with United Nations principles or the 
provisions of international law of the sea.
For  half  a  century,  the  international  community 
has  witnessed  several  instances  of  torture,  murder, 
exploitation,  sexual  violence  and  arbitrary  arrest  that 
the  people  of  West  Papua  have  suffered  at  the  hands 
of the Indonesians, and it has ignored their voices and 
calls  for  help.  We  urge  the  Human  Rights  Council  to 
investigate  those  abuses.  We  also  call  on  our  leading 
partners around the world to support the legal right to 
self-determination  of  West  Papua.  We  call  on  them, 
along with Indonesia, to end all forms of violence and 
find common ground with the citizens of West Papua 
in order to facilitate a process that will enable them to 
freely express their will. 
I return to the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations  to  reaffirm  the  belief  in  fundamental  human 
rights, the dignity and worth of the human person and 
the  equal  rights  of  men  and  women,  and  of  nations, 
great and small. I believe that we all have an obligation 
to work together to lift the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  imposed  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba. 
Removing those restrictions will, inter alia, enable the 
Cuban people to enjoy their human rights.
New Caledonia is in the critical phase of deciding its 
future, as the 2018 referendum is quickly approaching. 
We  thank  all  countries,  in  particular  France,  that 
have  supported  the  process  thus  far.  We  urge  the 
administering  Power  to  ensure  that  the  referendum  is 
fair and transparent and that the wishes of the people 
are  honoured.  We  also  call  on  France  to  facilitate  a 
fair  and  transparent  process  of  self-determination  for 
French Polynesia.
In  conclusion,  as  we  begin  the  seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly, let us work together 
with a specific goal in mind: to respond judiciously to 
the many challenges we face for the common good of 
humankind. May God bless the States Members of the 
United Nations.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Vanuatu for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Umaro Sissoco Embaló, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau.
Mr.  Umaro  Sissoco  Embaló,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Umaro  Sissoco  Embaló,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
17-29597
19/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
Mr. Embaló (Guinea-Bissau) (spoke in Portuguese; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am 
honoured  to  stand  at  this  rostrum  and  speak  to  the 
international  community  gathered  here  in  the  full 
expression of our universality.
Allow me to convey greetings from the people of 
Guinea-Bissau to all Heads of State and Government, 
representatives  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, who have come to add pomp and substance to 
this session of the General Assembly.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  you,  Sir, 
on your election as President of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session.  To  your  predecessor, 
Ambassador Peter Thomson, I would like to express our 
recognition of his performance and wish him continued 
success in his remarkable diplomatic career.
As we all know, the world today is full of complex 
and  grave  challenges,  such  as  hotspots  of  political 
instability  and  geopolitical  tension  around  the  world, 
the seriousness of which cannot be overlooked by the 
statesmen  and  citizens  of  the  world;  the  scourge  of 
terrorism,  which  unfortunately  does  not  seem  to  be 
abating, as a phenomenon that deserves our unanimous 
condemnation; the human tragedy of migration waves, 
particularly  those  crossing  the  Mediterranean,  and 
the  saga  of  refugees;  glaring  social  inequality,  the 
expanding  geography  of  poverty,  and  the  intensity  of 
human  suffering,  which  we  see  in  vast  areas  of  the 
planet;  and  the  sorrow  of  racial,  gender  and  religious 
discrimination and the threat of climate breakdown on 
a  planetary  scale,  with  prospects  of  frightening,  and 
not unlikely, consequences. In short, it is not difficult 
to  imagine  how  many  ills  of  the  world  are  addressed 
by  the  United  Nations  on  a  daily  basis,  and  require 
the  attention  and  constructive  engagement  of  the 
international community represented here.
The United Nations has a long history of solidarity 
with and commitment to Guinea-Bissau. It began with 
our  struggle  for  national  liberation  and  has  not  been 
broken  since.  Our  goal  is  to  further  strengthen  our 
institutional  engagement  with  the  United  Nations.  In 
so doing, we are merely reaffirming our firm belief in 
international  law,  peace  and  security  among  nations 
and the social and moral progress of humankind, which 
are the values on which the United Nations was created.
We  continue  to  be  going  through  a  period  of 
institutional challenges in Guinea-Bissau, for which the 
Conakry  Accord  laid  out  a  solution  in  October  2016. 
There are challenges related to the functioning of some 
of our core political institutions, namely the Parliament 
and the Government, but it is with profound solemnity 
that I inform the General Assembly that civilian peace 
reigns in my country. There are no reports of universal 
human  rights  violations  that  merit  complaints  or  that 
are worthy of concern.
Public  safety  indicators  related  to  people  and 
property follow a normal pattern. Regular payments are 
being made to public servants, and on the foreign debt 
service and internal arrears. The marketing campaign 
for our main export crop, cashew nuts, broke all records, 
which had a positive impact on the social environment 
in Guinea-Bissau. Recently, our public finance controls 
were praised by the International Monetary Fund and 
other multilateral partners. The State and civil society 
are  very  far  from  any  political  breakdown.  Indeed, 
we  are  fortunately  not  counting  the  dead  or  injured 
in  Guinea-Bissau,  nor  are  we  assessing  any  damage 
to  public  property  resulting  from  a  breakdown  in  the 
authority of the State.
The  most  recently  held  summit  of  the  Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which 
convened  in  Monrovia,  placed  its  trust  in  the  Bissau-
Guinean  people’s  determination  to  internally  resolve 
the  problems  related  to  the  political  and  institutional 
impasse that has affected my country for the past two 
years.  In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  that  the  African 
Union, at its most recent summit in Addis Ababa; the 
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries (CPLP) 
Council of Ministers meeting in Brasilia; and the United 
Nations  put  the  political  situation  in  Guinea-Bissau 
back on their agendas. With the patience, wisdom and 
solidarity  of  our  international  partners  —  ECOWAS, 
the  African  Union,  the  CPLP  and  the  Secretary-
General, who is retaining his Special Representative in 
Guinea-Bissau  —  we  will  overcome  the  political  and 
institutional impasse that persists in my country.
We  have  taken  note  of  the  General  Assembly’s 
agenda,  which,  in  fact,  is  largely  consistent  with  our 
own hopes and concerns. The subregion of the Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  where  Guinea-
Bissau is located has significant potential for economic 
growth,  consistent  poverty  reduction  and  the  sharing 
of social welfare. There is nothing unattainable in our 
dream to drive — at the subregional level, together, in 
peace  and  security,  and  with  productive  work  —  the 
inclusive social progress that we all desire.
20/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
We have examples of success in our subregion, but 
we also see distressing signs on the ECOWAS horizon 
of  potential  threats  to  both  the  internal  constitutional 
order  of  States  and  geopolitical  stability  in  the 
subregion. Terrorist acts are seriously affecting Burkina 
Faso, Mali, the Niger, Côte d’Ivoire and Nigeria, with 
clear and grave consequences for peace, social cohesion 
and stability.
Guinea-Bissau fully supports the pooling of efforts 
in  the  context  of  the  Group  of  Five  for  the  Sahel, 
advocates  the  integrity  of  Mali,  and  calls  for  an  all-
out  fight  against  terrorism  in  all  its  manifestations. 
Indeed,  in  order  to  face  so  many  challenges  at  the 
same  time,  namely  internal  security,  the  preservation 
of  the  territorial  integrity  of  States  and  peacekeeping 
within  the  space  of  ECOWAS,  we  need  help.  We 
therefore  count  on  the  United  Nations  and  all  of  its 
specialized agencies, and all our international partners. 
Only if we work together will we be able to transform 
our  subregion  into  a  bastion  of  peace  and  internal 
security and, by extension, a bastion in the service of 
international security.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  are  a 
challenge,  but  no  development  strategy  is  worthy  of 
such a title if, in the case of Guinea-Bissau, it does not 
begin by placing the issue of food security squarely and 
sustainably  at  the  core  of  its  concept.  To  let  Guinea-
Bissau, a country with a widely recognized agricultural 
capacity,  slip  into  dependence  on  large  volumes  of 
imported rice every year was certainly one of the worst 
economic policy mistakes that was made. The challenge 
we face is very clear. It is the political and economic 
challenge  of  food  security.  It  is  the  moral  challenge 
of  overcoming  poverty.  It  is  the  test  of  ensuring  zero 
hunger in Guinea-Bissau.
With that as the focus of our approach, we are merely 
restating  the  central  item  on  the  General  Assembly’s 
agenda in another way — promoting health from cradle 
to  the  grave.  I  will  surprise  no  one  when  I  state  that 
there  is  no  positive  health  indicator  that  can  stand 
against the violence of poverty, hunger or malnutrition. 
There  is  no  way  to  bring  down  the  morbidity  and 
mortality  indicators  that  assail  us  as  a  result  of  the 
scourges  of  AIDS,  malaria,  diarrhoea  and  infectious 
diseases,  without  sustained  poverty  reduction,  and  if 
we do not successfully take on the moral challenge of 
zero hunger.
According 
to 
At  a  more  specific  level,  my  country  has  made 
progress with regard to the health care that we provide 
to our population, in particular to children and women 
of  reproductive  age.  However,  given  that  the  State 
alone is unable to guarantee that public service to the 
entire population, we continue to rely on international 
cooperation  and  United  Nations  support  through  its 
specialized institutions. But health and poverty are not 
the only elements that go hand in hand. In the context of 
poverty and extreme nutritional deficiency, we do not 
see how we can aim for good education for our children.
scientific  criteria, 
12  per  cent  of  Guinea-Bissau’s  territory  is  comprised 
of  ecologically  protected  areas.  In  that  regard,  I  can 
say without hesitation that one of our most important 
educational  achievements  has  been  the  development 
of  a  vigilant,  ecological  awareness  of  an  increasingly 
sharp and active sense of environmental responsibility, 
in particular among the youth of Guinea-Bissau — the 
foundation of our future. But we are realistic; we have 
a  long  road  ahead  of  us  and  much  effort  to  be  made 
in  order  to  ensure  environmental  sustainability,  as 
we  economically  exploit  our  natural  resources.  We 
consider  the  Paris  Agreement  to  be  a  fundamental 
victory in harmonizing States’ environmental policies 
and in their promotion worldwide.
recognized 
We  must  enhance  our  relations  with  the  People’s 
Republic of China, a country that has been our friend 
since  the  difficult  years  of  our  struggle  for  national 
liberation. As the One China policy is consistent with 
peace  and  security  in  the  region  and  with  China’s 
yearning  for  its  unity  to  be  restored,  we  reiterate  our 
full solidarity with the People’s Republic of China.
Security  Council  reform  remains  a  need  that  the 
international  community  has  rightly  highlighted. 
Guinea-Bissau’s position is the same one that we, as an 
African country, advocated for and adopted within the 
framework of the African Union.
I  express  the  solidarity  of  the  people  and  the 
Government  of  Guinea-Bissau  to  the  people  of  the 
Republic  of  Sierra  Leone,  who  have  suffered  greatly 
from  the  natural  disaster  that  has  assailed  their 
country.  We  also  offer  our  solidarity  to  all  countries 
that  have  been  victimized  by  natural  disasters  that 
cause irreparable loss of human lives, the destruction 
of property and great suffering among the survivors.
I express the unfailing solidarity of Guinea-Bissau 
to  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  which  has  provided  support 
17-29597
21/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
to the Bissau-Guinean people at our most challenging 
moments. Today, as in the past, we call for the lifting of 
the economic embargo that has prevented that friendly 
nation from developing normally for more than 60 years.
We also support the hopes of the Palestinian people 
for the establishment of their own State, coexisting side 
by side with the State of Israel, based on trust, peace 
and security.
I  will  close  my  remarks  with  a  reference  to  the 
women of Guinea-Bissau. I would like to say that women 
in  Guinea-Bissau  are  still  far  from  taking  the  place 
that they deserve in our society and in our institutions 
in  general.  The  policy  of  gender  equality  —  more 
specifically of equal opportunity for girls and women in 
Guinea-Bissau — is undoubtedly a test for my country’s 
democracy.  It  is  a  great  challenge  for  our  political 
parties and all Government officials in Guinea-Bissau. 
I  hope  that  all  of  the  political,  economic  and  social 
actors in my country will continue to converge on the 
legitimate advocacy for women’s rights and, in general, 
for the promotion of human rights in Guinea-Bissau.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Guinea-Bissau for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Umaro Sissoco Embaló, Prime Minister of the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Selom Komi Klassou, Prime 
Minister of the Togolese Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Togolese Republic.
Mr.  Selom  Komi  Klassou,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Togolese Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Selom  Komi  Klassou,  Prime 
Minister of the Togolese Republic, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Klassou (Togo) (spoke in French): It is indeed 
both a pleasure and an honour to address the General 
Assembly  and  to  convey  cordial  greetings  from  the 
President  of  the  Togolese  Republic,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Faure  Essozimna  Gnassingbé,  who,  because  of  a 
last-minute  commitment,  could  not  be  here  with  us 
in New York. I take the floor to deliver the following 
message on his behalf.
“It is with a renewed sense of joy that we take 
part  in  the  seventy-second  regular  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  which  is  dedicated  to  a  theme 
that is as revealing as it is inspiring — ‘Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for 
all on a sustainable planet’.
“First and foremost, I would like to congratulate 
the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák, on his election. I would also like to reiterate 
my congratulations to the new Secretary-General, 
Mr.  António  Guterres,  and  assure  him  of  Togo’s 
support during his tenure, as we strive to achieve 
the noble objectives of our Organization.
“The  theme  of  this  session  reminds  us  that 
human  beings  and  the  well-being  of  our  peoples 
must  remain  the  priority  of  our  actions,  both  at 
the national level and at the international level as 
we pool our efforts. In the context of our debates, 
this  theme  raises  the  issue  of  human  security, 
which encompasses both the imperatives of peace, 
development,  access  to  quality  health  care,  a 
healthy  environment,  food  security  and  jobs,  in 
particular for young people.
“Those  challenges  that  our  State  faces,  in 
particular the developing countries, are a reminder 
of  the  importance  of  implementing  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda on Financing for Development, all 
of which we adopted together.
“In that regard, my country is working actively 
to adopt its national development plan before the end 
of the year. That plan will replace the strategy for 
accelerated growth, development and the promotion 
of employment for the period 2018-2022, which is 
coming to an end. The new development planning 
document  will  identify  priorities  and  define  the 
appropriate actions to be implemented in order to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
“With  that  in  mind,  in  February  2017,  the 
Government set up a strategic monitoring unit for 
the implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals  and  international  development  agreements. 
The unit is tasked with monitoring the progress of 
priority  action  undertaken  on  those  fronts.  Togo, 
which is preparing to take a seat on the Economic and 
Social Council as of 1 January 2018, is committed 
to taking an active part in the various actions and 
22/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
initiatives of the Council, with a view to achieving 
a  harmonious  and  resolute  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda.
“The  quest  for  the  well-being  of  people  is  at 
the  core  of  the  general  policy  of  the  Togolese 
Government. That need guides sectoral initiatives 
on  a  day-to-day  basis  by  giving  priority  to  the 
most vulnerable groups, such as women, children 
and young people. More specifically, my country, 
while  maintaining  consistency  in  the  progress 
already achieved in the areas of economic growth, 
poverty reduction and the promotion of a peaceful 
and participatory democracy, spares no effort in its 
attempt to ensure genuine inclusive and sustainable 
growth for the population.
designed 
to 
complement 
“The  emergency  community  development 
programme, 
the 
programme  for  vulnerable  populations,  for  the 
period  2016-2018,  aims 
to  help  bring  about 
considerable improvement in the living conditions 
of  people  in  communities  where  basic  social  and 
economic  services  and  infrastructure  highlight 
social  inequalities.  Over  the  long  term,  those 
inequalities  must  be  reduced  with  targeted  action 
so  as  to  meet  urgent  and  priority  needs,  carried 
out  in  synergy  with  other  activities  that  are  part 
of  normal  sectoral  policies.  Such  action  focuses 
primarily  on  access  to  drinking  water,  access  to 
energy,  rural  entrepreneurship  and  agribusiness, 
productivity and wealth creation, employment, the 
empowerment  of  women  and  young  people,  and 
social protection.
“With regard to social protection, for example, 
it  should  be  noted  that,  following  the  decision 
to  make  education  free  of  charge  in  2008  and 
school  canteens  gradually  available  to  all  public-
school  children, 
to 
establish  a  social  and  medical  benefits  system 
for  schoolchildren.  That  measure,  which  will  be 
extended to private secular and faith-based sectors 
in the coming years, will cater to 2 million children 
involved in the pilot phase of the project.
the  Government  decided 
for 
“In  addition,  in  the  field  of  health,  the 
development of the new national health development 
plan 
the 
Government to provide appropriate solutions to the 
problems identified and to align national priorities 
with those of the Sustainable Development Goals.
the  period  2017-2022  enables 
“The harmonious and sustainable development 
of  Togo  cannot  be  achieved  without  peace,  social 
cohesion,  the  consolidation  of  democracy  and 
the  rule  of  law.  Above  and  beyond  the  various 
action  taken  to  improve  the  well-being  of  the 
population,  those  requirements  to  achieve  such 
development  will  also  depend  on  the  political, 
institutional and constitutional reforms under way. 
In  that  regard,  drawing  on  the  work  of  the  Truth 
and  Reconciliation  Commission,  the  Government 
recently  transmitted  to  the  National  Assembly 
for  consideration  a  bill  on  articles  52,  59  and  60 
of the Constitution of 14 October 1992, relating in 
particular  to  limiting  mandates  to  a  term  of  five 
years, renewable once, for members of the National 
Assembly  and  the  President  of  the  Republic,  and 
to the voting method, which is a first-past-the-post 
system with two rounds.
“That 
reform  project,  which  meets 
the 
profound hopes and desires of the Togolese people, 
was  adopted  just  three  days  ago,  on  Tuesday, 
19  September,  by  more  than  two  thirds  of  the 
members  of  the  National  Assembly.  It  should  be 
underscored  that  that  process  was  carried  out  in 
accordance with the provisions of article 144 of the 
Constitution,  which  stipulates  the  procedure  for 
constitutional revision as follows:
‘The  bill  or  the  proposal  of  revision  is 
considered  as  adopted  if  it  is  voted  with 
the  majority  of  four  fifths  of  the  deputies 
composing  the  National  Assembly.  In  default 
of this majority, the bill or proposal of revision, 
adopted with the majority of two thirds of the 
deputies composing the National Assembly, is 
submitted to referendum.’
“In addition, the voting on the bill or proposal 
by  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  members  of  the 
National Assembly raises the issue of constitutional 
reform  directly  with  the  people 
the 
holding of a referendum. A bill will be submitted 
immediately  to  the  people  for  ratification.  As  the 
history of our country reflects, a referendum will 
enable the country to freely and fully exercise its 
sovereignty, by making the text of the Constitution 
a fundamental norm.
through 
“With  regard  to  human  rights,  the  will  of 
the  Togolese  Government  to  fulfil  its  obligations 
in  the  protection  and  promotion  of  such  rights 
17-29597
23/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
is  irreversible.  It  was  a  long-term  undertaking, 
but  Togo  remained  committed  to  consolidating 
the  gains  made  and  to  further  strengthening  the 
measures guaranteeing fundamental freedoms. We 
will  also  continue  to  work  within  our  mandate  at 
the Human Rights Council, which expires in 2018, 
in order to ensure that that body plays its full role 
in respecting human rights and protecting the well-
being of the peoples of the world.
“With  regard  to  the  challenges  facing  our 
States, I call on the entire international community 
to take responsible action to mitigate the threat of 
global warming. The quality of life of the people on 
our planet must be preserved for the good of future 
generations.  My  country,  which  often  faces  the 
vagaries of coastal erosion, flooding and irregular 
rainy  seasons,  believes  that  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  remains  an  ideal  framework 
for carrying out joint initiatives that will safeguard 
the climate.
“In West Africa, the recent bad weather, which 
resulted in significant loss of life in Sierra Leone 
and tens of thousands of victims in the Niger, has 
conjured  up  in  people’s  memories  the  spectre  of 
the  terrible  Ebola  crisis  that  the  subregion  had  to 
deal  with  two  years  ago.  Those  losses,  which  we 
all  lament,  should  compel  our  individual  States 
and  those  outside  the  African  continent  to  act 
urgently  to  develop  a  rigorous  and  effective  plan 
for  ensuring  that  our  peoples  have  decent  living 
standards and a resilient health-care system, with 
particular  emphasis  on  our  technical  services’ 
early-warning and prevention capabilities. To that 
end,  I  would  like  to  urge  States  to  work  together 
to  intensify  our  efforts,  not  only  to  prevent  the 
resurgence of previously eradicated epidemics but 
also  to  significantly  reduce  and  even  eliminate 
other  diseases,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis,  which,  tragically,  continue  to  cause 
many casualties in Africa.
“The  era  we  live  in  has  also  been  marked  by 
a surge in new security challenges, from maritime 
insecurity to terrorism, which we must fight in all 
their  forms.  Maritime  insecurity  undermines  our 
development, deprives our people of vital resources 
and  creates  areas  of  lawlessness  that  criminal 
networks  try  to  exploit  for  their  various  types  of 
trafficking.  Togo  was  therefore  pleased  with  the 
success  of  the  African  Union’s  Extraordinary 
Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  on 
Maritime  Security,  Safety  and  Development  in 
Africa, held in Lomé in October 2016. Today, thanks 
to the commitment of the States that participated in 
the Summit, we now have the African Union Charter 
on Maritime Security, Safety and Development, a 
harmonized,  legally  binding  instrument  aimed  at 
promoting the development of the blue economy in 
Africa.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  invite  and  encourage  countries  that  have  not 
yet signed the Lomé Charter to do so, and thereby 
strengthen  the  legal  framework  for  regulating 
our  States’  joint  action,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
African Union, for preserving our seas and oceans.
“We  cannot  deny  that  we  will  never  be  able 
to achieve the goal that is the theme of this year’s 
session if we do not intensify our efforts to maintain 
world  peace  and  security.  The  recent  terrorist 
attacks  in  France,  Great  Britain,  Spain,  Burkina 
Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Mali and other countries have 
highlighted the importance of concerted action on 
the part of the entire international community if we 
are to tackle this scourge, which knows no borders 
and does not discriminate among its targets. That 
is  why  in  the  region  where  it  is  most  prevalent 
in  Africa,  the  Sahel,  I  commend  the  initiative  of 
the  countries  of  the  Group  of  Five  for  the  Sahel, 
which  will  help  us  further  strengthen  inter-State 
cooperation, and urge the most affluent countries 
among us to support the push for an effective fight 
that will enable us to eradicate terrorism in that part 
of Africa. In that regard, I was particularly pleased 
with  the  Secretary-General’s  establishment  of  the 
Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  in  June.  Eliminating 
radicalism  and  religious  fundamentalism  should 
also be a major priority for our States, along with 
our urgent duty to provide convincing alternatives, 
especially  for  young  people,  that  can  guarantee 
their  future  and  shield  them  from  the  rhetoric  of 
hatred and other appeals to violence.
“In view of the major challenge that migration 
represents today and the security crisis it creates, 
we  should  take  strong  measures  not  only  to  limit 
the  ever-increasing  demands  placed  on  countries 
of destination but especially to tackle the problem 
where it begins, in the countries of origin. Finding 
adequate  solutions  to  the  migration  crisis  also 
means  finding  definitive  solutions  to  the  various 
conflicts  that  undermine  the  ability  of  the  States 
24/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
concerned  to  ensure  effective  control  over  their 
borders  and  result  in  the  massive  displacement 
of  populations  seeking  security  and  a  better  life 
outside their own countries. We all know that the 
crises  in  Syria  and  Libya,  and  the  fierce  fight 
that  the  Iraqi  Government  is  currently  waging 
against the Islamic State, are not confined to those 
countries’  borders,  but  have  attendant  results 
that  include  the  destabilization  of  their  regions, 
worsening terrorism and a migration crisis. In that 
regard, it is Togo’s hope that in Africa, the various 
initiatives of the African Union and other regional 
organizations,  supported  by  the  United  Nations, 
will help to resolve the disputes in South Sudan and 
restore stability in Libya.
the 
“In  Asia,  the  recent  missile  launches  by  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea have raised 
tensions  within 
international  community, 
sparked heated debates in the Security Council and 
increased people’s fears, particularly in Japan and 
the Republic of Korea. I urge the main protagonists 
to exercise restraint and reason in order to preserve 
peace and stability in the region. There can be no 
question  that  only  dialogue  and  concerted  efforts 
can settle this issue.
“The  challenges  that  our  world  is  facing  are 
having  a  real  impact  on  Africa’s  development.  If 
we are to tackle them effectively, one of the most 
urgent  tasks  still  ahead  of  us  is  the  economic 
transformation  of  the  continent.  We  are  well 
aware that it is the African elite that has primary 
responsibility  for  that  transformation,  but  we 
would  also  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  in 
that regard of international solidarity. Besides the 
efforts that must be made to implement the SDGs, 
it  will  be  crucial  to  foster  investment  in  Africa, 
particularly in science, industry, agribusiness and 
advanced technology. Our transformation will also 
require the efforts of the various regional economic 
communities.  By  ensuring 
their  peoples 
and  economies  are  properly  integrated,  they  can 
promote African integration generally and thereby 
contribute to harmonious development in Africa as 
a whole.
that 
“In  my  capacity  as  current  Chairperson  of 
the Economic Community of West African States 
(ECOWAS),  I  pledge  to  work  with  my  colleagues 
to  make  our  shared  space  an  ECOWAS  of  our 
peoples,  in  accordance  with  the  objectives  of  our 
organization. I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank our partners and invite them to continue 
to  work  alongside  our  States  and  the  ECOWAS 
Commission with a view to translating our multiple 
initiatives into concrete action.
“The  United  Nations  has  helped  the  world  to 
make a great deal of progress in the areas of peace 
and  security,  the  promotion  of  human  rights  and 
the preservation of our planet. It has been able to 
achieve those advances thanks to its revitalization 
of  some  of  its  organs  and,  above  all,  by  adapting 
them to the changes that have taken place since the 
Organization was founded. With regard to reform 
of the Security Council, Togo believes that Member 
States should resolve to conclude the process, which 
began more than two decades ago, with the goal of 
making the Council more effective. We hope that 
significant progress can be made in that direction 
during  this  session.  The  reforms  should  also 
encompass our peacekeeping forces. In that regard, 
we commend the Secretary-General’s initiative for 
a draft compact between the United Nations and its 
Member States on eliminating sexual exploitation 
and abuse during peacekeeping operations, and we 
hope that all States will adhere to it so as to put an 
end to this problem for good.
“I  firmly  believe  that,  by  working  together 
during  this  session,  the  General  Assembly  will 
make  a  significant  contribution  to  strengthening 
our  States’  commitment  to  making  our  planet  a 
world of shared peace and prosperity for the well-
being of our peoples.”
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Togolese 
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Selom  Komi  Klassou,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Togolese Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Vladimir  Makei,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the Republic of Belarus.
Mr. Makei (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The past 
few  decades  have  been  marked  by  two  contradictory 
trends  — 
increasing  political  fragmentation  and 
increasing economic globalization. The first of those is 
associated with the global political instability that has 
resulted  from  wars,  conflicts,  terrorism,  xenophobia 
and  other  factors  and  that  is  giving  rise  to  a  feeling 
17-29597
25/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
of  mounting  chaos  and  despair.  Why  are  we  in  this 
predicament?  Because  we  did  not  truly  put  an  end  to 
our last momentous conflict, the Cold War. It did not 
end  with  a  peace  treaty,  as  had  always  been  the  case 
with  previous  major  wars.  As  a  result,  we  were  left 
without the generally accepted frameworks that could 
have  guided  our  subsequent  behaviour.  The  various 
Powers  formed  differing  interpretations  of  this  state 
of  geopolitical  uncertainty  and  acted  accordingly. 
What  seemed  obvious  and  legitimate  to  some  was 
incomprehensible and illegitimate for others. Basically, 
all the problems that have accumulated since the early 
1990s are the legacy of our inability to bring an end the 
Cold War once and for all. But it is never too late to do 
the right thing.
Last  year,  the  President  of  Belarus  came  up  with 
the idea of launching a new negotiating process similar 
to  the  Helsinki  process  of  the  1970s,  while,  needless 
to say, keeping in mind the problems and threats that 
are relevant to us today. We believe that the possibility 
of  expanding  and  reconsidering  that  format  is  worth 
discussing.  We  propose  that  the  key  global  players, 
particularly China, Russia, the United States of America 
and  the  States  of  the  European  Union,  engage  in  a 
dialogue on a strategic vision for new and constructive 
relations. For its part, the Republic of Belarus is ready 
to provide the forum for such a dialogue. We are willing 
to carry out that task with the same responsibility that 
we  have  shown  over  the  past  few  years  in  the  efforts 
to settle the crisis in Ukraine. Minsk is prepared to be 
the bridge that can connect the issues of the past with 
those yet to come. We believe that the agreements that 
could result from such a dialogue would, in essence, put 
an end to that last major war. They could subsequently 
be  implemented  through  the  active  engagement  of 
the  United  Nations,  and  with  that,  stop  the  growing 
political fragmentation in the world in its tracks. Some 
may consider this unrealistic in today’s world, but three 
years  ago  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus’s 
proposal to send peacekeepers to Ukraine was greeted 
in  exactly  the  same  way,  and  yet  now  that  idea  has 
been  revived  and  is  being  actively  discussed  in  the 
United Nations.
Growing  globalization,  the  second  of  the  two 
trends  under  discussion,  has  undoubtedly  contributed 
to progress and economic development worldwide, but 
it too has its downside. The fact is that the majority of 
the  world’s  population  has  not  been  able  to  enjoy  its 
benefits,  especially  in  the  past  few  decades,  and  as  a 
consequence, we have been unable to eliminate poverty 
and inequality has steadily risen. Much has been said 
in recent years, including from this rostrum, about the 
economic reasons for this situation, but to put it bluntly, 
the  global  economy  has  not  been  run  according  to  a 
win-win formula. It is designed to suit the interests not 
of ordinary people but of corporate capital. As a result, 
economic  globalization  has  not  been  that  rising  tide 
that lifts all boats.
interconnectivity  among 
Nevertheless,  there  are  are  some  grounds  for 
optimism.  We  base  that  on  two  factors  —  regional 
integration and new creative ideas in the global economy. 
Regional integration is a key feature of today’s world. 
Where it is successful, it leaves less room for political 
fragmentation.  Belarus  has  been  actively  involved  in 
a  number  of  integration  processes  in  its  region.  This 
year,  for  example,  we  hold  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Central  European  Initiative.  In  the  past  few  years, 
Belarus has been vigorously advocating for cooperation 
and 
regional  processes, 
an  approach  we  call  “integrating  integrations”.  It  is 
based  on  the  assumption  that,  in  terms  of  structural 
functionality,  today’s  world  is  made  up  of  regions  as 
well  as  countries.  We  firmly  believe  that  cooperation 
among regional integration processes is as essential to 
their functioning as it is to that of States. And where 
creative  new  ideas  are  concerned,  we  would  like  to 
single out the One Belt, One Road initiative promoted 
by the People’s Republic of China, which represents a 
new type of economic multilateralism, one that seeks to 
bring benefits not only to its individual participants but 
to the global economy as a whole and is a true win-win 
approach. The Republic of Belarus both participates in 
and  supports  that  initiative.  In  our  view,  “integrating 
integrations” and One Belt, One Road can help us shift 
the  global  economy  from  a  path  of  divergence  to  one 
of convergence. Globalization must become more fair.
How  can  the  United  Nations  help  to  address  the 
challenges posed by political fragmentation and uneven 
economic globalization? One of its primary tasks in the 
previous century was to prevent the great Powers from 
waging  wars  among  themselves.  It  succeeded  in  that 
task, providing a forum where opposing parties could 
work towards a positive end. The result was that a third 
World War did not happen.
Today the realities are different, and they require 
us to reconsider the Organization’s role and place in our 
world. In particular, the question is about how the United 
Nations fits into a world that is increasingly dominated 
26/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
by various closed clubs and informal entities. We believe 
that, as it has always done, the United Nations must work 
to strengthen the system of inter-State relations. It is at 
the United Nations that its Members can successfully 
resolve  their  differences,  forge  mutually  acceptable 
solutions and tackle transboundary threats. For its part, 
the United Nations should serve as a unifying force for 
the international relations system as a whole. In other 
words, the entire complex network of new dimensions 
in  those  relations  —  closed  clubs,  informal  entities, 
alliances  and  others  —  should  be  anchored  in  the 
United Nations. If that is done, the system we have can 
function in a coherent, concerted and effective manner.
launched  a 
comprehensive  process  for  reform  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  we  welcome  this  undertaking  on  the 
whole.  We  would  particularly  like  to  highlight  the 
relevance  and  importance  of  his  initiatives  where  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
the  fight  against  terrorism  are  concerned.  We  realize 
that  the  degree  of  success  of  this  transformation  will 
to  a  large  extent  determine  the  role  and  place  of  the 
Organization in the world for many years to come, and 
we believe that success will come if we all uphold three 
major principles.
The  new  Secretary-General  has 
First,  reform  must  be  transparent,  logical  and 
result-oriented.
Secondly, it should not lead to more red tape or a 
greater burden on Member States.
Thirdly, reform should be inclusive. Every Member 
State’s  voice  must  be  heard.  However,  the  most 
important part of reform of the United Nations system 
is not about reviewing the interactions and alignment 
of  its  individual  bodies  or  optimizing  its  personnel 
and  funding.  Its  most  serious,  meaningful  and  far-
reaching reform can and must occur in our relationship 
to the Organization.
Today the General Assembly constitutes a unique 
deliberative forum that is essential to our recognition of 
both the fragility and the diversity of our world. We, the 
Member States, need to regain our sense of ownership 
of  our  Organization,  which  has  been  somewhat  lost. 
The United Nations is not made up just of its Secretariat 
and its field missions, programmes and funds. First and 
foremost, it is about its Member States and their will or 
lack of it, about dialogue and cooperation or alienation. 
No  ideal  composition  of  the  Security  Council  or 
perfectly  optimized  General  Assembly  agenda  will 
mean  anything  to  the  world  beyond  the  East  River 
unless  Member  States  demonstrate  a  willingness  to 
look  for  ways  to  better  understand  one  another  and 
agree more often.
Only  in  the  most  minimal  way  does  our  routine 
work  in  the  General  Assembly,  agreeing  on  the  texts 
of multiple lengthy resolutions, represent dialogue and 
an  effort  to  understand  our  opponents.  Our  various 
thematic side events provide a platform for dozens of 
speakers to present their views, and yet they very rarely 
try to find an answer to the question of what we must 
do to better understand one another. How often, during 
our  official  meetings  and  informal  consultations,  do 
inconsistent  arguments  and  unanswered  questions 
hang in the air without a response, or simply without 
being  heard?  That  is  why  we  are  absolutely  certain 
that  real  reform  of  the  United  Nations  will  come 
only when together we decide to create the necessary 
conditions — both in terms of organization and setting 
goals — to use the United Nations as a practical tool 
for finding ways to resolve contradictions and disputes 
among Member States without violence or war.
We want both the Secretary-General and Member 
States to attend to this message. History has shown that 
every world order or system of international relations 
is always born out of the intolerable agony brought on 
by a major war or watershed event. Do we really need 
another major war or global calamity for our currently 
rudderless world to achieve some order? I am sure that 
none of us wants any such scenario.
Belarus  has  proposed  ways 
to  address  our 
fundamental  global  problems.  We  fully  realize  how 
audacious and unrealistic the idea of forging a renewed 
architecture  for  Eurasian-Atlantic  cooperation  and 
security  may  appear  to  many  at  this  stage.  We  are 
willing to admit that our initial ideas about the outlines 
and, perhaps, the content of this process may be far from 
perfect. And it is possible that not everyone is ready to 
embrace  Belarus’s  notion  of  the  importance  of  closer 
cooperation  among  regional  integration  processes. 
However,  what  we  do  firmly  believe  is  that  it  is  high 
time that we all came together to act urgently for the 
sake of peace and prosperity.
I  would  like  to  conclude  with  a  fitting  quotation 
from  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  who  once  said,  “Over 
the  bleached  bones  and  jumbled  residue  of  numerous 
civilizations are written the pathetic words: ‘Too late’.” 
We can still act to make sure that it will not be too late.
17-29597
27/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Kairat Abdrakhmanov, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Abdrakhmanov  (Kazakhstan):  In  his  first 
statement  at  the  United  Nations  in  October  1992  (see 
A/47/PV.24),  the  President  of  Kazakhstan,  Nursultan 
Nazarbayev,  endorsed 
the  concept  of  preventive 
diplomacy, an idea that is now a very high priority for 
the Secretary-General and the President of the General 
Assembly.  That  concept  has  been  instrumental  for 
Kazakhstan, which for the 25 years of its independent 
development  has  shown  itself  to  be  a  proactive  and 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community. 
My  country  has  become  a  net  contributor  to  peace, 
security  and  stability,  and  economic  and  social 
development, not only in our region but far beyond. We 
have worked diligently to preserve peace and harmony 
in  our  multi-ethnic,  multi-religious  society,  while 
stressing and ensuring the equality and dignity of every 
citizen.  We  have  achieved  that  while  also  creating  an 
efficient  economic  model.  Our  economy  has  grown 
20  times  over,  and  major  international  corporations 
have  established  and  strengthened  their  presence  in 
Kazakhstan,  investing  more  than  $265  billion.  This 
year the Institute for Management Development ranked 
Kazakhstan  thirty-second  in  world  competitiveness, 
after a remarkable rise of 15 places, and thirty-fifth on 
its ease-of-doing-business index, 16 places higher.
Looking forward, Kazakhstan has a clear vision for 
its future development. We are aiming to become one 
of the top 30 most competitive economies in the world 
by 2050, meeting the most advanced global standards 
in  terms  of  economic  performance  and  transparent 
governance,  especially  those  of  the  Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development.  A 
new  model  of  economic  growth,  Kazakhstan’s  third 
modernization,  announced  by  President  Nazarbayev 
in his annual address earlier this year, outlines a path 
by  which  our  country  can  achieve  those  ambitious 
goals. On the economic front, the third modernization 
strongly emphasizes Kazakhstan’s rapid technological 
modernization, with a focus on new high-tech industries, 
information  and  communication  technologies,  as  well 
as massive improvements in the business environment, 
economic  productivity,  human  development  and 
institutional reforms. We have committed resources to 
streamlining and upgrading our road, rail, airport and 
pipeline infrastructure and ensured the effective joining 
of  Kazakhstan’s  national  Nurly  Zhol  programme  and 
China’s One Belt, One Road initiative.
This year, with a view to building a more efficient, 
sustainable  and  modern  system  of  governance, 
President Nazarbayev initiated constitutional reform in 
Kazakhstan. The reform, now well under way, is aimed 
at  a  major  redistribution  of  powers  among  its  three 
branches  and  at  further  democratizing  the  political 
system as a whole. The key steps are the transfer of some 
presidential powers to Parliament and the Government, 
and the strengthening of a genuine system of checks and 
balances. Those economic and political modernization 
processes will be accompanied by efforts in our quest 
to  modernize  Kazakhstan’s  national 
identity  and 
cultural code to create conditions for a new generation 
of competitive and pragmatic citizens and leaders with 
a thirst for knowledge, progressive consciousness and 
an open attitude.
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  expanded  regional 
partnership among Central Asian States has enhanced 
our  common  capability  to  withstand  threats  and 
challenges.  With  that  in  mind,  during  our  current 
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  we  have  been 
focusing  on  creating  a  model  of  a  regional  zone  of 
peace,  security,  development  and  cooperation 
in 
Central Asia. We are also striving to further strengthen 
regional  cooperation  and 
the 
brother nations of Central Asia in such areas as water 
management,  trade  and  development,  transportation 
and many others. Kazakhstan is focusing in particular 
on regional cooperation aimed at tackling the disastrous 
situation  of  the  Aral  Sea.  The  International  Fund  for 
Saving the Aral Sea is still the only permanent platform 
for  dialogue  among  Central  Asia’s  Heads  of  State, 
and  we  believe  that  it  could  be  used  to  combine  our 
efforts to formulate mid- and long-term strategies for 
regional development.
integration  among 
The  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
current  session  focuses  on  people,  encompassing 
issues  of  sustainable  development  and  peace  and 
security,  and  stresses  our  common  responsibility  for 
the  future.  None  of  us  can  ignore  the  tough  realities 
we  see  on  the  ground  —  the  lack  of  trust  and  unity, 
global  and  regional  inequality  and  injustice,  poverty, 
xenophobia,  conflict,  terrorism  and  extremism,  and 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. That 
is why this agenda truly reflects the magnitude of the 
challenges  that  the  United  Nations  is  facing  today 
28/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
and  at  the  same  time  underlines  the  Organization’s 
undiminished importance.
While  the  United  Nations  machinery  has  indeed 
been subject to criticism and demands for long-awaited 
reforms aimed at enhancing its preparedness for crises 
and response capabilities, the Organization remains a 
beacon of hope for billions of people across the globe, 
a universal institution that holds a promise of a better, 
safer  and  more  sustainable  life.  We  believe  that  the 
Secretary-General  is  on  the  right  track  in  that  regard 
in his efforts to unite Member States in revitalizing the 
United  Nations.  We  also  support  the  special  meeting 
on  United  Nations  reform  convened  on  18  September 
by  United  States  President  Donald  Trump,  which  we 
believe will be a fresh incentive to turn our Organization 
into an effective and efficient tool that serves the whole 
of humankind.
Kazakhstan  is  actively  working  on  establishing 
and hosting a United Nations regional hub in Almaty 
for multilateral diplomacy, with a focus on sustainable 
development,  humanitarian  assistance,  disaster  risk-
reduction  and  resilience-building  in  the  region  and 
beyond.  The  initiative  is  in  line  with  the  Secretary-
General’s  idea  of  optimizing  the  service-delivery  of 
the United Nations and increasing the effectiveness of 
United Nations field missions’ activities through proper 
planning and management.
to  pursue 
My  country  has  continued 
the 
concept  of  a  security  and  development  nexus,  while 
reflecting  the  intrinsic  interdependence  of  peace, 
security  and  development.  Sustainable  development 
is  unimaginable  without  peace,  and  vice  versa. 
When  our  security  architecture  is  eroded,  along  with 
regional  confrontations  and  international  terrorism 
it  undermines  the  achievements  that  we  havemade 
within the framework of the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  puts  our  ability  to  attain  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  in  jeopardy.  Peace  is 
an  integral  requirement  for  social,  economic  and 
environmental progress.
When  we  speak  of  opportunities  made  possible 
by  global  modernization,  we  must  bear  in  mind  the 
dangers  that  can  prevent  all  of  us  from  realizing  our 
potential. In our interdependent and connected world, 
nuclear  weapons  are  no  longer  an  asset,  but  rather 
a  danger.  With  moral  authority  and  responsibility 
based on my nation’s bitter experience of hundreds of 
nuclear tests, my President has stated that eliminating 
the danger of nuclear weapons is the most urgent task 
facing  humankind  in  the  twenty-first  century.  That 
will  involve  a  whole  range  of  important  and  urgent 
steps  —  a  complete  ban  on  nuclear  testing,  the  total 
prohibition  of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  complete  and 
verifiable destruction of nuclear arsenals.
We  are  deeply  concerned  about 
the  nuclear 
tests  being  conducted  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea — the only State in the twenty-first 
century that has continued with such tests, despite the 
condemnation  of  the  entire  international  community. 
I  want  to  stress  that  the  actions  that  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  taking  to  further 
develop its nuclear and missile programmes are totally 
unacceptable.  Pyongyang  must  take  serious  steps  to 
restore our trust and must recommit to a much-needed 
political settlement.
64/35, 
thereby 
In  2009, 
resolution 
the  General  Assembly  unanimously 
adopted 
designating 
29 August — the day the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site 
was officially closed in 1991 by the decree of President 
Nazarbayev — as the International Day against Nuclear 
Tests.  That  day  has  been  widely  commemorated  in 
Kazakhstan  and  in  the  United  Nations  since  2010. 
This  year  has  also  been  marked  by  several  events  of 
international  significance.  From  25  to  29  August, 
Astana hosted the conference of the Pugwash movement 
of  scientists  commemorating  the  movement’s  sixtieth 
anniversary and the International Day against Nuclear 
Tests, at which hundreds of scholars, practitioners and 
officials from some 50 countries gathered to seek ways 
to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world.
On  that  same  day,  my  President  and  Director 
General  Yukiya  Amano,  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  opened  the  IAEA  Low-
Enriched Uranium Bank facility in Kazakhstan, with a 
view to making a significant contribution to the uses of 
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and strengthening 
the  global  non-proliferation  regime.  At  the  opening 
ceremony,  President  Nazarbayev  outlined  a  number 
of important initiatives that I would like to share with 
the Assembly.
The  first  will  be  to  convene  a  summit  of  all  the 
States  that  possess  nuclear  weapons  to  collectively 
discuss further steps towards their nuclear disarmament 
and the attainment of a nuclear-weapon-free world. The 
second  is  to  enhance  the  role  of  nuclear-weapon-free 
zones  as  effective  instruments  for  ending  further 
17-29597
29/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
nuclear  proliferation  and  to  combine  the  efforts  of 
States  members  of  such  zones  at  a  meeting  in  our 
capital of Astana of representatives of all the nuclear-
weapon-free  zones.  The  third  is  to  revive  the  global 
nuclear-security  summit  process  and  to  host  the  first 
relaunched  nuclear-security  summit,  also  in  Astana. 
The fourth is to call for joint efforts to ensure that the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
is  implemented  by  2020,  which  will  be  the  fiftieth 
anniversary of the Treaty’s entry into force.
We must improve the coordination of our common 
response to the barbaric acts of terrorists. Kazakhstan 
fully supports the efforts of the United Nations in that 
regard, especially the creation of the Office of Counter-
Terrorism, with a view to developing a comprehensive 
long-term approach. That is in line with the President of 
Kazakhstan’s 2015 proposal for the joint establishment 
of a global anti-terrorism coalition. My country looks 
forward to actively and constructively participating in 
the first-ever meeting of the heads of national counter-
terrorism agencies next year with a view to forging a 
new  international  counter-terrorism  partnership.  As 
a  practical  contribution  to  the  global  partnership  in 
the  fight  against  terrorism,  my  country  has  begun  to 
formulate  a  code  of  conduct  for  the  achievement  of  a 
terrorism-free world as one way to expedite work on a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
We  are  also  committed  to  implementing  the  United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  and  have 
recently  allocated  $300,000  for  its  implementation  in 
Central Asia.
Kazakhstan  advocates  for  the  broadest  possible 
implementation  of  multilateral  mechanisms  and 
instruments  for  combating  foreign  terrorist  fighters 
and  shutting  down  the  channels  of  financial  support 
for  their  activities  through  the  illegal  trade  in  drugs, 
natural resources and cultural artefacts. Since there is 
a wide range of approaches to the issue of controlling 
Internet  content,  we  believe  that  the  United  Nations 
should take concerted action to prevent the use of the 
Internet for recruiting and spreading terrorist ideology 
and radicalizing populations, especially young people. 
We in Kazakhstan are working on creating a national 
cybershield system.
The  unspeakable  suffering  of  millions  of  people 
in  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya  and  Yemen,  and  the  ongoing 
humanitarian  crises  and  gross  violations  of  human 
rights in those countries, leave none of us indifferent. 
Kazakhstan is hosting the Astana process on Syria in 
order  to  contribute  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the 
situation there and to promote the United Nations-led 
negotiations in Geneva, which is the primary forum for 
those negotiations. We believe that the Astana process, 
which began earlier this year with the support and direct 
involvement  of  President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  has 
produced clear, positive results aimed at strengthening 
the ceasefire regime, creating de-escalation zones and 
developing  a  monitoring  mechanism.  Success  in  the 
Geneva  and  Astana  platforms  is  critical  and  should 
be supported by all if we are to save innocent lives in 
Syria. It is a moral imperative for all of us.
Kazakhstan  has  a  clear  and  consistent  position 
on  the  Middle  East  peace  process,  based  on  a  two-
State  solution  approach.  We  support  a  sovereign, 
independent, viable and united State of Palestine, with 
East Jerusalem as its capital, living within secure and 
recognized borders, side by side in peace with Israel.
As an active member of the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation  (OIC),  my  country,  along  with  other 
OIC member States, is a firm defender of the ideal of 
dialogue among nations and peoples of diverse religious 
identity. In Astana we recently hosted the OIC Summit 
on  Science  and  Technology  on  the  margins  of  the 
International Exhibition Expo 2017. While the Summit 
was  devoted  to  science  and  technology  matters,  the 
participants were not in a position to ignore the current 
suffering of the Rohingya community. The OIC member 
States condemned those continued violations and called 
for  dialogue  among  the  United  Nations,  the  OIC  and 
the Government of Myanmar to stop the humanitarian 
crisis.  Those  events  have  once  again  highlighted  the 
relevance of our initiative in establishing the Congress 
of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
Kazakhstan  is  fully  committed  to  strengthening 
and improving United Nations peacekeeping activities. 
We believe that the Secretary-General’s new approach 
to  peacekeeping  reform,  with  a  cross-pillar  approach 
focusing  on  prevention  and  sustaining  peace,  will 
improve 
the  effectiveness  and  accountability  of 
peacekeeping operations. We are confident that, if we 
ensure flexibility and partnerships, they will not only 
encourage  the  active  involvement  and  engagement  of 
new countries but could also increase the effectiveness 
is  committed 
of  peace  operations.  My  country 
to 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  by  sending  more  military  observers 
and  staff  officers  to  United  Nations  missions.  We 
recently declared that we had reached the second level 
its  contribution 
increasing 
30/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
of  peacekeeping-unit  preparedness  for  deployment  to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  the  United 
Nations Peacekeeping Capability Readiness System.
Earlier this year I presented President Nazarbayev’s 
policy  address  to  the  Security  Council.  Its  seven 
priorities  call  for  ensuring  humankind’s  survival 
through a world free of nuclear weapons by 2045 and 
through  the  prevention  and  elimination  of  military 
confrontation at the regional and global levels, thereby 
generating  a  model  for  a  regional  zone  of  peace, 
security, cooperation and development in Central Asia. 
It calls for all stakeholders to work globally to combat 
international terrorism and extremism, promote peace 
and security in Africa, implement the SDGs and work 
for  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  United 
Nations system.
Kazakhstan will hold the presidency of the Council 
for  the  month  of  January  2018.  The  major  event  we 
are  planning  during  that  period  will  be  a  high-level 
open debate on global peace and security. I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our  invitation  to 
all  Member  States  to  participate  in  the  debate  at  the 
highest  level.  Our  presidency  will  focus  particularly 
on  security  and  stability  in  Afghanistan  and  Central 
Asia  through  the  prism  of  Afghanistan’s  peaceful 
integration, economically and politically, into regional 
and global processes.
My country remains deeply committed to sustainable 
development.  In  the  face  of  the  reality  of  climate 
change, Kazakhstan, despite its abundant conventional 
energy  resources,  is  committed  to  achieving  a  green 
economy  by  diversifying  and  developing  alternative 
energy sources. That led us to choose “Future energy” 
as  the  theme  for  the  Astana  Expo  2017  international 
exhibition.  Throughout  the  summer,  115  countries 
and  22  international  organizations,  including  the 
United  Nations,  its  funds,  agencies  and  programmes, 
showcased  their  creative  experiences.  That  enormous 
undertaking  is  clear  evidence  of  Kazakhstan’s  pledge 
to carry forward the Paris Climate Change Agreement 
and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
One of the best ways to promote a green economy and 
green  business  is  the  use  of  the  legacy  of  the  Expo 
infrastructure. With the support of five United Nations 
agencies,  we  are  establishing  a  “Future  energy” 
international  centre  for  the  development  of  green 
technologies  and  investment  projects.  Its  activities 
will  be  in  full  compliance  with  Kazakhstan’s  Green 
Bridge  Partnership  Programme,  as  reflected  in  the 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development. The Expo infrastructure 
will also house an Astana international financial centre 
and a centre for information-technology start-ups. We 
invite all Member States to participate in their activities.
As  I  mentioned  earlier,  we  hosted  the  first-ever 
OIC  Summit  on  Science  and  Technology  within  the 
framework  of  the  Expo,  an  event  that  underlined  the 
importance of technological modernization in achieving 
unity  and  solidarity  in  the  1.5-billion-strong  Islamic 
world.  The  high-level  meeting,  which  was  attended 
by  15  presidents  and  dignitaries  from  57  States, 
emphasized  the  clear  and  undeniable  link  between 
security and development and recognized that building 
a sustainable future for our nations is the only way to 
end challenges and threats to their security. In support 
of the OIC’s endeavours, the President of Kazakhstan 
proposed creating a 15-member OIC forum, similar to 
the Group of 20, designed to streamline our scientific 
and economic cooperation. He invited Islamic nations 
to jointly develop the Expo legacy in the areas of Islamic 
finance and green technologies, and established a prize 
for Islamic science and innovations.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  how  vital  it 
is that we preserve peace and stability and ensure the 
gradual  and  sustainable  development  of  our  fragile 
world. We do not have the luxury of being able to make 
mistakes and then going back to correct them. We call 
on all world leaders to redouble their efforts and their 
goodwill  with  the  goal  of  making  progress  towards 
lasting peace and prosperity for all.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Alfonso María Dastis Quecedo, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of Spain.
Mr.  Dastis  Quecedo  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  to  wish  you  every  success 
in  that  important  role.  The  seventy-second  session  is 
also the first of Secretary-General António Guterres’s 
term, and he can count on Spain’s unwavering support 
in carrying out his work.
Spain  wants  to  redouble  its  efforts  to  achieve  a 
fairer, freer and more united world. That reaffirmation 
of our commitment makes particular sense in the wake 
of  the  ruthless  terrorist  attacks  that  struck  the  cities 
of  Barcelona  and  Cambrils  on  17  August.  From  this 
rostrum, I want to express the sincere gratitude of the 
17-29597
31/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
Spanish  people  for  the  many  heartfelt  expressions  of 
solidarity and affection that we have received from all 
over the world. Terrorism will be defeated with unity, 
perseverance and the full force of the law.
Spain  is  a  free  and  open  society.  Our  rights  and 
freedoms  are  protected  by  the  social  and  democratic 
rule of law enshrined in our Constitution. The Spanish 
Government  cannot,  and  will  not,  cease  to  defend 
the rule of law and the values it inspires — freedom, 
equality, 
justice  and  political  pluralism.  Spain’s 
public  authorities  have  the  duty  to  ensure  the  rights 
and  freedoms  of  all  Spaniards.  Any  challenge  to  the 
principles  of  democracy  represents  a  serious  attack 
on  our  peaceful  and  free  coexistence.  Pitting  any 
alleged legitimate claim against the rule of law of the 
Constitution  will  inevitably  result  in  the  violation  of 
the  fundamental  rights  of  millions  of  citizens  and  is 
incompatible with democracy.
In  the  same  conviction  and  determination  with 
which we defend a constitutional and democratic Spain, 
we reaffirm the values, purposes and principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  As  His  Majesty  King 
Don Felipe VI indicated from this rostrum a year ago, 
the Charter
“was not simply a beacon that lit the dark times of 
the past, but ... also illuminates our present and our 
future.” (A/71/PV.10, p. 6)
Spain  undertook  its  Security  Council  mandate 
during  the  2015-2016  biennium  with  a  sense  of 
responsibility.  We  made  significant  contributions  in 
the  areas  of  non-proliferation,  counter-terrorism  and 
support  for  its  victims,  preventive  diplomacy,  the 
humanitarian  agenda  and  increasing  the  transparency 
of the Council’s work. We will bring the same attitude 
to  our  service  on  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
2018-2020 triennium, if on 16 October the members of 
the  Assembly  entrust  us  with  that  responsibility.  The 
defence and promotion of human rights is a priority of 
Spain’s foreign policy.
Today’s  world  is  highly  interdependent.  Extreme 
poverty,  hunger,  desertification,  global  warming  and 
the  preservation  of  forests  and  oceans  are  serious 
and  urgent  challenges  that  require  concerted  action. 
Spain affirms its full commitment to the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  which  inspires  our 
policies.  We  are  preparing  for  a  voluntary  review  of 
our implementation of the 2030 Agenda in July 2018. 
It  requires  us  to  make  tremendous  collective  efforts 
to ensure that no one is left behind. We must work to 
combat  inequality,  foster  prosperity  and  provide  job 
opportunities  to  young  people  on  a  planet  that  must 
remain  habitable  for  generations  to  come.  The  future 
livability  of  large  areas  of  the  planet  is  inextricably 
linked  to  fulfilment  of  the  Paris  Climate  Change 
Agreement, and we must act accordingly.
Large  displacements  of  people  have  reached 
unprecedented  levels  in  recent  years.  The  two  global 
compacts  on  refugees  and  migrants  that  we  have 
committed  to  adopting  in  2018  should  confirm  our 
desire  to  provide  a  concerted,  equitable  and  humane 
response  to  the  problem  of  refugees  and  contribute 
to  managing  migrant  flows  among  their  countries  of 
origin, transit and destination. Both issues deserve to 
be treated individually.
Regrettably,  the  scourge  of  war  and  threats  to 
peace persist in many parts of the world. We have been 
talking here about the conflict in Syria for seven years. 
We are heartened by the decrease in hostilities and by 
the victories against Da’esh, but we remain concerned 
about how specific interests are put ahead of a political 
solution  that,  with  United  Nations  mediation,  could 
lead  to  a  genuine  transition.  The  United  Nations  also 
has a central role in promoting a political agreement in 
Yemen  that  would  end  the  most  serious  humanitarian 
crisis in the world today.
Turning to Iraq, the Government has successfully 
reclaimed Mosul and other territories from the horror 
of  Da’esh.  Spain  would  like  to  help  the  new  Iraq  by, 
inter  alia,  assisting  with  the  training  of  its  security 
forces.  We  support  the  reconstruction  of  the  country 
and  reconciliation  among  its  citizens,  and  we  reject 
political undertakings that detract from key efforts to 
consolidate a free, democratic and united Iraq.
In  Lebanon,  we  welcome  the  recent  renewal  of 
the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Interim  Force  in 
Lebanon,  an  operation  in  which  Spain’s  armed  forces 
play a substantive part.
We  count  on  the  rigorous  implementation  of  the 
Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  with  Iran,  which 
will contribute to nuclear non-proliferation and peace 
in the region.
On the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the parties must 
return  to  the  spirit  of  Madrid  and  to  the  negotiating 
table.  The  status  quo  is  not  sustainable.  We  are 
concerned about the trends we see on the ground that 
32/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
are inconsistent with the two-State solution. Only two 
democratic  States,  living  side  by  side  within  secure 
and  recognized  borders,  will  meet  the  legitimate 
expectations of Israelis and Palestinians.
Spain  has  always  accorded  priority 
the 
Mediterranean, which we have sought to transform into 
an area of   peace and prosperity. To that end, it is vital to 
encourage greater cooperation, such as that promoted 
by the Union for the Mediterranean.
to 
The 
international 
community  has 
Similarly, we call on the Burundian authorities to act 
responsibly and with respect for constitutional legality.
invested 
considerable resources in support of Afghanistan since 
2001 and, in the past year, has reiterated its commitment 
to  the  country.  Spain  believes  that  it  is  essential  to 
safeguard the promise of an Afghan society that is free 
of  extremism  and  terrorism  and  respectful  of  human 
rights, including the rights of women and children.
to  Spain.  My  country  welcomes 
Peace and prosperity in the Maghreb are of prime 
the 
importance 
Secretary-General’s intention to resume talks between 
the  parties  to  the  Western  Sahara  dispute.  We  are 
confident  that  his  new  Personal  Envoy  will  facilitate 
progress towards a just, lasting and mutually acceptable 
political  solution  that  offers  self-determination  to  the 
people of Western Sahara, in line with the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
The new Special Representative of the Secretary-
General in Libya has Spain’s full support in his efforts 
to  find  a  political  solution  based  on  a  united  country 
and in accordance with the Libyan Political Agreement.
Spain  pays  special  and  preferential  attention  to 
the  African  continent.  Africa  needs  peace,  stability, 
economic  growth  and  sound  institutions.  We  firmly 
believe  in  its  potential,  which  will  be  compounded 
when conflicts cease, peace has been consolidated and 
social cohesion deepens.
Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Liberia  are  two  recent  success 
stories that should set the tone for the other conflicts 
that continue to affect the continent. We reiterate our 
belief  that  the  solution  to  those  conflicts  will  depend 
upon fully understanding them and working together to 
find solutions to achieve inclusive development.
We remain deeply concerned about the situation in 
Mali, the Central African Republic and South Sudan. I 
would like to pay tribute to the Blue Helmets who lost 
their lives in those countries and in other United Nations 
missions.  Spain  has  established  strong  links  with  the 
countries of the Sahel. We want them to view Spain as a 
close and supportive country, on which they can depend 
upon to combat terrorism and humanitarian crises, such 
as the crisis affecting the Lake Chad basin region.
We are following with concern the situation in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. We call for respect 
for  constitutional  provisions,  and  dialogue  in  the 
quest  for  agreements  on  which  coexistence  is  based. 
The nuclear and ballistic proliferation programmes 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  are 
one  of  the  main  threats  to  international  peace.  The 
resumption  of  tests  is  a  blatant  challenge  to  Security 
Council  resolutions  and  seriously  undermines  the 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime, 
to 
which Spain is firmly committed. We reiterate our call 
to the authorities of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  abandon  a  path  that  leads  inexorably  to 
the  country’s  political  and  economic  isolation  and 
to  genuinely  opt  for  substantive  negotiations  for  the 
complete,  irreversible  and  verifiable  denuclearization 
of the Korean peninsula.
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  are  undergoing 
profound changes to their institutions and are seeking 
new  integration  mechanisms.  In  that  regard,  we 
consider that the Pacific Alliance is a successful model 
of  political  and  economic  cooperation  and  that  its 
dialogue with the Southern Common Market will lead 
to a promising future for the region.
Spain  welcomes  the  peace  agreement  reached 
in  Colombia.  We  would  like  to  contribute  actively  to 
the consolidation of that peace. We participated in the 
United  Nations  Mission  in  Colombia  to  oversee  the 
laying  down  of  weapons.  We  welcome  the  progress 
made in that process, and we are open to taking part in 
the  new  United  Nations  Verification  Mission,  which, 
from  26  September,  will  be  tasked  with  verifying 
the  reintegration  of  the  contingents  of  the  Fuerzas 
Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia. In addition, we 
also support the consolidation of the peace process with 
development  actions  taken  at  the  bilateral,  European 
and multilateral levels. We also welcome the prospects 
for  the  cessation  of  hostilities  with  the  Ejército  de 
Liberación  Nacional,  and  we  offer  our  assistance  in 
that endeavour.
Spain  also  has  fraternal  ties  to  Venezuela.  We 
therefore  fervently  hope  that  Venezuelans  can  once 
again live in democracy, peace and freedom. We urge 
17-29597
33/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
the  Government,  within  the  framework  of  ongoing 
regional efforts, to engage in genuine dialogue with the 
opposition, respectful of the constitutional framework, 
the  separation  and  integrity  of  powers  and  of  human 
rights.  That  dialogue  should  lead  to  the  release  of  all 
political prisoners, the holding of free and transparent 
elections and the end of the humanitarian crisis. That 
will  restore  a  voice  to  the  Venezuelan  people.  My 
country will spare no effort to make that possible.
Spain  supports  the  difficult  but  necessary  work 
of  the  International  Commission  against  Impunity  in 
Guatemala (CICIG) to strengthen the rule of law in the 
country. It encourages continued cooperation between 
the  Guatemalan  authorities  and  CICIG.  We  hope  that 
the recent misunderstandings between the two entities 
can be overcome through dialogue and understanding. 
CICIG  is  an  important  instrument  for  supporting 
Guatemala  in  its  quest  for  governance,  the  proper 
functioning of its institutions, prosperity, and the well-
being of the Guatemalan people and their contribution 
to Central American integration.
The development and stabilization of Haiti are also 
a major objective for Spain. My country has participated 
in  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti 
since  its  inception.  We  will  continue  to  support  the 
work of the United Nations in the new phase initiated 
by Security Council resolution 2350 (2017).
The rule of law at the international level cannot allow 
the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
States  to  be  violated.  The  annexation  of  Crimea  is  a 
violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
Ukraine and is an outright breach of international law. 
It is regrettable that such an event occurred in twenty-
first century Europe. We are also concerned about the 
ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine, whose resolution 
requires  compliance  with  the  Minsk  agreements.  The 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
Special  Monitoring  Mission  to  Ukraine  deserves  our 
full support.
The European Union is one of the most admirable 
legal and political structures to have emerged since the 
Second World War. It has brought about unprecedented 
peace and prosperity in Europe. The United Kingdom’s 
decision  to  leave  the  European  Union  saddens  us, 
but  we  will  work  to  conclude  the  negotiations  on  the 
new  relations  between  the  United  Kingdom  and  the 
European Union with an agreement that preserves the 
close and fruitful links between them.
In the context of Brexit, Spain has made a generous 
proposal  to  resolve  the  Gibraltar  issue.  It  combines 
the  unwavering  claim  of  Spanish  sovereignty  over 
the  colony  with  a  statute  that  benefits  the  Rock’s 
inhabitants,  so  that  they  may  continue  to  enjoy  the 
advantages of European Union membership. We invite 
the United Kingdom to negotiate an agreement based on 
those premises, putting an end to an anachronism that is 
completely outlandish given the excellent relationship 
between  our  two  countries.  We  must  not  allow  more 
time  to  pass  without  fulfilling  the  United  Nations 
mandate calling on us to negotiate the Gibraltar issue.
The Hispano-Roman philosopher Seneca wrote,
“It  is  not  because  things  are  difficult  that  we  do 
not  dare;  it  is  because  we  do  not  dare  that  they 
are difficult.”
We  have  no  choice  but  to  dare  to  face,  together  and 
with determination, the problems that afflict us. With 
commitment, perseverance and humility we can make 
great  progress.  The  road  is  long  and  does  not  allow 
for  delays.  Let  us  make  the  fulfilment  of  the  San 
Francisco  Charter’s  aspirations  for  peace,  sustainable 
development and human rights the imperative goal that 
guides our work during this session.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Jean Asselborn, Minister of Foreign and European 
Affairs and Minister of Immigration and Asylum of the 
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
Mr.  Asselborn  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 
At the outset, allow me to congratulate you, Minister 
Miroslav Lajčák, on your election to the presidency of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
You  are  a  long-standing  friend,  and  I  know  that  you 
will be able to successfully carry out the task entrusted 
to you.
My thoughts today are especially with the United 
States,  Mexico  and  the  Caribbean,  which  have  been 
repeatedly  struck  by  misfortune.  My  country 
is 
doing  everything  in  its  power  to  assist  them  in  those 
humanitarian emergencies.
is  multilateralism 
My  message  is  simple.  In  a  context  where  crisis 
hotbeds  are  proliferating  and  tensions  are  increasing, 
it 
that  must  prevail,  meaning 
cooperation, dialogue and seeking solutions within the 
multilateral framework. More than ever, multilateralism 
and  cooperation  must  take  precedence  over  unilateral 
34/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
approaches and national selfishness, in the interests of 
our common good and our common humanity.
When facing crises, the world expects a lot from the 
United Nations. The appointment of our new Secretary-
General, António Guterres, through an unprecedented 
process  characterized  by  greater  transparency,  grants 
him  new  legitimacy  that  he  can  put  to  the  service  of 
his  work  and  that  of  the  Organization  itself.  It  also 
allows him to initiate three major reform projects — as 
he  has  indicated,  with  regard  to  the  management  of 
the  Secretariat,  the  reorganization  of  the  peace  and 
security  pillar  and  the  repositioning  of  the  United 
Nations  development  system.  A  rationalization  of 
the latter, both at Headquarters and in the field, is of 
particular interest to my country, as 30 per cent of our 
official  development  assistance  is  channelled  through 
multilateral organizations.
transparent,  even 
Reform efforts must be borne on all fronts and all 
aspects  of  our  Organization.  In  that  regard,  progress 
is still to be made on the part of the Security Council. 
It  must  become  more 
though 
efforts  have  been  made  in  that  area.  It  must  become 
more  representative  of  today’s  world.  It  is  also  worth 
remembering 
that  Security  Council  membership 
carries obligations as well as rights. We regret that in 
the  past  12  months  we  have  seen  abusive  use  of  the 
right  of  the  veto.  Luxembourg  was  one  of  the  first  to 
advocate  the  code  of  conduct  for  the  Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group to  prevent  crimes 
of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. 
We also strongly support the French-Mexican initiative, 
whereby relevant States give up their right to the veto in 
the event of mass atrocity.
For the United Nations to be able to implement an 
ambitious  agenda,  it  must  have  sufficient  resources. 
However, the budgetary situation of the United Nations 
remains  difficult,  notably,  but  not  solely,  because  of 
the  new  approach  by  the  American  Administration. 
That  may  prevent  agencies  from  fulfilling  their  core 
mission.  Clearly,  we  need  to  go  back  to  the  drawing 
board.  My  country  supports  the  idea  of  a  budgetary 
compact for development.
Luxembourg  contributes  1  per  cent  of  its  gross 
national income to official development assistance. Our 
annual voluntary contributions to the various agencies 
is  in  excess  of  $35  million  for  2017.  The  funding 
requirements  for  achieving  the  goals  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  are  enormous. 
Progress has been made in terms of funding to combat 
climate  change.  To  take  the  case  of  Luxembourg,  my 
country has set up a green stock exchange with a current 
capitalization of more than €57 billion. We plan to use 
that model to set up future instruments for sustainable 
development financing on the basis of a broader range 
of development goals.
in  July,  Luxembourg  presented 
At  the  High-level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development 
its 
voluntary  national  review  for  the  implementation  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  The 
preparation  of  that  review  enriched  the  debate  in  my 
country, enabling us to mobilize efforts and strengthen 
ownership among all stakeholders of the 2030 Agenda.
Those efforts will translate into the adoption of a new 
sustainable development plan that will guide the work 
of  the  public  authorities  and  that  of  civil  society  and 
private-sector actors in the decade ahead.
My  country  acts  with  conviction  within  both  a 
European  and  a  multilateral  framework.  The  context 
of  globalization  means  that  there  is  no  other  choice. 
That is true in the area of trade, even though bilateral 
regional agreements may complement that framework. 
That is also true in a whole series of other areas, above 
all  in  the  fight  against  climate  change.  We  are  fully 
committed to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
and we regret that one of the major international actors 
has distanced itself from that instrument. We hope that 
it will be possible to bring that actor back, as it is true 
that  a  truly  global  framework  would  not  be  complete 
without it. I would also like to point out my country’s 
support for the French initiative of a global pact for the 
environment, which will be able to provide a political 
framework  in  the  future,  giving  coherence  to  all 
existing instruments.
If there is one phenomenon that is more a product of 
globalization than any other, it is population movements. 
There are multiple reasons for that, such as demographic 
pressure,  climate  change,  conflict  and  humanitarian 
disasters.  Understandable  economic  motives,  both  in 
countries of origin and in countries of destination, are 
also often the basis for such movements. In any case, 
that is a problem that needs to be addressed, and it is 
very useful that it should be dealt with at the level of 
our Organization. Next year will see the establishment 
of  new  instruments  with  regard  to  both  refugees  and 
migration. The dividing line between the two will not 
always be easy to draw.
17-29597
35/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
With  regard  to  migration,  the  current  phase  has 
allowed  us  to  take  stock  of  the  situation,  which  does 
not  always  correspond  to  preconceived  notions.  First, 
there  is  the  fact  that  most  of  the  major  transregional 
movements 
today  are  South-South  movements. 
Secondly,  there  is  the  fact  that,  depending  on  the 
circumstances,  many  countries  are  simultaneously 
countries  of  origin,  countries  of  transit  and  host 
countries.  It  is  therefore  an  issue  that  goes  beyond  a 
single  North-South  logic,  although  I  do  not  deny  the 
difficulties  and  concerns  arising  from  the  European 
refugee  crisis  in  2015  and  2016.  Many  refugees  were 
forced  to  move  either  due  to  legitimate  concerns  for 
their physical safety or humanitarian disasters arising 
from conflicts.
In  that  regard,  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East 
continues  to  raise  concerns.  Beyond  the  persistent 
obstacles to seeking a political solution between Israel 
and  Palestine,  the  situations  in  Syria  and  Yemen  are 
apocalyptic, Libya is engulfed by violence and civil war, 
and new tensions are emerging in the Gulf countries. 
The international community must do everything in its 
power to reduce those tensions.
The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  has  lost  none 
of  its  core  importance.  The  total  absence  of  credible 
political prospects could lead at any moment to a new 
eruption  of  violence  and  creates  fertile  ground  for 
hatred and terrorism. Security Council resolution 2334 
(2016),  adopted  on  23  December  2016,  which  again 
calls  on  Israel  to  immediately  and  completely  cease 
all its settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian 
territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  is  not  directed 
against Israel. The resolution targets a status quo that 
has  become  untenable  and  unacceptable.  It  aims  to 
contribute to ensuring peace for Israel.
The  recent  announcement  of  general  elections 
being  organized  in  Palestine  offers  a  slight  hope  for 
reconciliation. We must seize that opportunity, which 
also,  clearly,  requires  responsibility  on  the  part  of 
Palestinian leaders, and I have trust in President Abbas 
in  that  regard.  By  continuing  settlement  in  the  West 
Bank  and  East  Jerusalem,  the  Israeli  Government  is 
directly  jeopardizing  the  two-State  solution,  the  only 
fair and equitable way to make possible a lasting solution 
of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In this fiftieth year 
of  Israeli  occupation,  the  trend  on  the  ground  is  very 
worrying.  But  that  is  not  a  reason  to  give  up.  On  the 
contrary, the international community must mobilize to 
change the situation.
In  Syria,  all  stakeholders  must  realize  that  peace 
will return only if a comprehensive, genuine, inclusive 
political transition is implemented. In this seventh year 
of the conflict, a lasting political solution depends upon 
the  commitment  of  countries  that  can  exert  political, 
military or economic influence on the warring parties 
in  Syria.  Every  effort  must  be  made  to  ensure  that 
negotiations  in  Geneva  under  the  United  Nations 
continue  and  make  progress.  The  Astana  process 
alone is not enough. We should improve humanitarian 
access  and  extend  the  de-escalation  zones  and  local 
ceasefires,  which  remain  a  glimmer  of  hope  for  a 
ravaged population.
In Iraq, it was announced that a referendum would 
be held on 25 September 2018 in the Kurdistan region. 
Our  position  is  to  support  the  unity,  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  of  Iraq.  A  united,  stable  and 
democratic  Iraq  should  guarantee  the  interests  of  all 
citizens.  The  federal  Government  and  the  Kurdish 
Regional Government established excellent cooperation 
during the horrible military campaign against Da’esh. 
The  differences  that  remain  between  them  must  be 
resolved through a peaceful and constructive dialogue 
that leads to an agreed solution in the framework of the 
Iraqi Constitution.
We  have  to  do  everything  we  can  to  calm  the 
situation  in  the  region.  It  also  means  maintaining 
and  rigorously  implementing  the  Iran  nuclear  deal, 
which  helps  to  reduce  the  risk  of  proliferation.  The 
agreement  was  signed  not  only  bilaterally  between 
the  United  States  and  Iran,  but  also  by  the  European 
Union, Russia, China, Germany, France and the United 
Kingdom,  as  well  as  being  endorsed  by  Security 
Council resolution 2231 (2015).
strongly  condemns 
That is also important in the context of the North 
Korean  regime’s  headlong  rush,  which  is  multiplying 
provocations  by  accelerating  its  nuclear  and  ballistic 
programme through nuclear tests and missile launches. 
That  is  unacceptable  and,  like  many  other  countries, 
Luxembourg 
those  acts  by 
Pyongyang. The Security Council has just strengthened 
the sanctions regime, and the European Union will do 
the same. Only the determination and the resolve of the 
international community will bring the regime back to 
reason, and hopefully to the negotiation table. If we call 
for resolve, we must also avoid an escalation that would 
lead to a catastrophe. To reach true de-escalation, we 
must  not  close  the  door  to  diplomacy  and  dialogue. 
The Iran agreement can serve as an inspiration in that 
36/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
regard.  It  demonstrates  that  an  appropriate  policy, 
combining pressure and dialogue, can lead to results.
Africa  continues  to  mobilize  the  energies  of 
international  actors  in  the  areas  of  development, 
peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  conflict  prevention  and 
combating  terrorism.  The  political  and  humanitarian 
situations  in  South  Sudan,  around  Lake  Chad,  the 
Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  are  extremely  worrying.  As  in  the  case 
of  the  Sahel  and  Mali,  such  situations  are  often  the 
result  of  non-State  actors,  which  render  a  number  of 
mechanisms inoperative.
Luxembourg  is  committed  to  the  activities  of  its 
African  partners,  including  at  the  regional  level.  We 
will  therefore  support  the  deployment  of  the  Force 
conjointe du G5 Sahel.
In  that  context,  it  is  also  essential  to  develop  the 
various  instruments  of  international  criminal  justice. 
We must continue to support the International Criminal 
Court (ICC), whose scope should be extended. I would 
like  to  say  here  how  pleased  we  are  that  the  trend 
towards  disengagement  by  African  States  has  been 
halted. Clearly, the scope of the ICC is not confined to 
Africa, and any such perception should be avoided.
We have supported the international, impartial and 
independent  inquiry  mechanism  on  the  most  serious 
crimes committed in Syria since March 2011. We call 
upon all Member States to participate in financing the 
mechanism before it can be incorporated into the United 
Nations regular budget. We also support initiatives on 
the responsibility of Da’esh for the crimes committed 
in Iraq, as endorsed today by the Security Council (see 
S/PV.8052).
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
focuses on people and their right to peace and a decent 
life. Human rights and the dignity of the human being 
must guide all our actions. All of the situations I have 
just  mentioned  give  rise  to  human  rights  violations. 
In  a  cruel  irony,  those  violations  are  sometimes  also 
committed by those who were least expected to do so. 
I congratulate Secretary-General António Guterres for 
having referred the extreme deterioration of the situation 
of the ethnic and religious minority in Myanmar — the 
Rohingya  minority  —  to  the  Security  Council.  The 
Burmese  authorities  must  cease  military  operations 
and ensure humanitarian access. Ethnic cleansing has 
no place in the twenty-first century, not in Myanmar or 
anywhere else.
Human trafficking, sexual exploitation in conflict 
situations  and  violations  of  the  rights  of  children  in 
armed  conflict  situations  are  all  scourges  that  are 
unfortunately  still  raging.  We  must  not  be  content 
with  denouncing  them,  but  ensure  that  we  support 
and  strengthen  our  financial  and  human  resources, 
including the institutions that counter those scourges.
The  right  to  dignity  is  also  reflected  in  respect 
for  the  physical  integrity  of  women  and  girls.  In 
recent decades, we have been able to reduce maternal 
mortality by almost half, but access by women and girls 
to sexual and reproductive rights in health care is now 
being challenged in some parts of the world. Every day, 
more  than  800  women  and  adolescent  girls  die  from 
pregnancy-related causes. More than 22 million unsafe 
abortions  are  recorded  each  year.  Those  statistics 
are  horrifying.  That  is  why  Luxembourg,  alongside 
our  partners  such  as  Belgium,  Denmark  and  the 
Netherlands,  has  joined  the  SheDecides  initiative  by 
providing €2 million in additional funding this year to 
support the United Nations Population Fund. Women’s 
health  is  one  of  the  top  priorities  of  Luxembourg’s 
health strategy and cooperation. I assure the Assembly 
that  my  country  will  continue  to  support  the  access 
of  girls  and  women  to  sexual  and  reproductive  rights 
and health.
situations 
Sometimes  defending  human  rights  is  reduced  to 
its simplest expression — no more or less than ensuring 
the  physical  survival  of  the  population.  I  mentioned 
catastrophic  humanitarian 
several 
countries. Luxembourg responded to the United Nations 
appeal to the famine crisis in three African countries 
and Yemen. For those four countries — Somalia, South 
Sudan, Nigeria and Yemen — my country has pledged 
more than €10 million in 2017. We are also a signatory 
to the Grand Bargain on humanitarian financing, which 
gives more flexibility, predictability and continuity to 
international humanitarian efforts.
in 
I  mentioned  our  Organization  and  the  world. 
Let  me  say  a  few  words  about  Europe.  Europe  is  not 
immune  to  the  tensions  in  the  international  order,  or 
should  I  say,  international  disorder?  In  Ukraine,  the 
past  year  was  marked  by  renewed  hostilities,  with 
numerous violations of the ceasefire, despite the efforts 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  and  the  Trilateral  Contact  Group.  I  hope  that 
the Normandy format talks can continue and lead the 
parties  to  fully  implement  the  Minsk  agreements  in 
17-29597
37/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
immune 
to 
Europe 
order to guarantee the territorial integrity, sovereignty 
and unity of Ukraine.
is  not 
the  upheavals  of 
globalization,  either.  It  is  victim  to  repeated  acts  of 
pointless and indiscriminate acts of terrorism. It is also 
a place where nationalist movements are fuelled by an 
anti-immigrant  or  anti-refugee  backlashes.  Moreover, 
sharing  the  burden  of  taking  in  refugees  has  been 
far  from  exemplary  in  some  communities,  but  also 
in  some  States,  including  European  Union  member 
States.  And  yet,  while  they  were  capable  of  adding 
momentum  to  the  worst  fears  a  year  ago,  populist 
movements are on the decline in Europe, even if they 
are often an electoral reality. The taking in of hundreds 
of  thousands  of  refugees  occurs  year  in  year  out, 
and  there  is  renewed  optimism,  including  prospects 
for  economic  growth.  I  call  for  a  Europe  that  rejects 
withdrawal into isolation, a Europe free of conflict that 
does not give way to intimidation, not even in its own 
neighbourhood,  a  Europe  that  puts  the  person  at  the 
centre of its efforts and which is resolutely committed 
to the multilateral system.
The  tensions  in  the  international  system  are  the 
result  of  major  trends  such  as  growing  inequality, 
migratory  flows  and  climate  change.  They  pit  two 
visions  against  each  other  —  one  based  on  force, 
the  law  of  the  jungle,  unilateralism  and  national 
selfishness, even nationalism; the other on the primacy 
of multilateralism, solidarity, universal values, human 
rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  Luxembourg  is  committed 
to  the  latter  vision.  The  challenges  I  have  outlined 
need to be tackled in a multilateral system with strong 
institutions  —  a  multilateral  system  inspired  by  the 
Charter of the United Nations, which enshrines human 
dignity  and  the  sovereign  equality  of  all  States.  That 
is the best recourse for the vast majority of the States 
of the international community and for the peoples of 
the  United  Nations,  which  we  represent  here.  At  its 
heart,  multilateralism  is  the  foundation  of  the  United 
Nations.  To  challenge  it  would  be  to  question  the 
inspiration  behind  the  United  Nations  —  the  creation 
of an international order based on the rule of law, in the 
service of peace and freedom.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Ulla Tørnæs, Minister for Development Cooperation 
of the Kingdom of Denmark.
Ms. Tørnæs (Denmark): This session of the General 
Assembly  opens  during  a  period  of  unprecedented 
The  evolving  global 
change.  Threats  and  challenges  such  as  poverty, 
terrorism, climate change, violations of human rights, 
gender  inequality,  armed  conflict,  displacement  and 
irregular  migration  are  ever  more  interconnected. 
Our  responses  to  those  challenges  must  reflect  their 
complexity. Our responses will require better and deeper 
cooperation, and must involve more stakeholders, new 
solutions and more effective international institutions.
landscape  gives  us  an 
opportunity to renew and redefine how we work together. 
The  United  Nations  must  seize  this  opportunity. 
Denmark  congratulates  Mr.  António  Guterres  on 
the  successful  beginning  of  his  term  as  Secretary-
General.  He  can  count  on  Denmark’s  full  support  in 
his  efforts.  More  than  ever,  we  need  leadership  and 
common  purpose  to  steer  the  Organization  in  a  new 
direction. Staying on the current path is not an option 
if  we  want  to  maintain  the  legitimacy  of  the  United 
Nations.  Fundamental  and  ambitious  reform  is  the 
only  way  forward.  This  week,  the  Secretary-General 
laid out a strong vision for a reformed United Nations 
and a call for action to all — from Governments to the 
staff of this great Organization, to our partners outside 
this  building.  We  must  all  invest  in,  and  commit  to, 
that agenda for change. As Member States, we have a 
responsibility to find common solutions that will turn 
our  shared  goals  into  positive  change  and  protect  the 
principles and values of the United Nations.
That spirit must also guide our work in the years 
to  come.  Denmark  is  committed  to  international 
cooperation  through  the  United  Nations,  built  on 
shared values, the rule of law and human rights. That 
is  one  of  the  reasons  that  Denmark  is  running  for  a 
seat on the Human Rights Council for the term 2019-
2021. Denmark has never before been a member of the 
Human Rights Council. As a longstanding supporter of 
the  United  Nations  and  a  consistent  advocate  for  the 
protection  of  the  dignity  and  rights  of  all  people,  we 
believe  that  we  could  make  a  significant  contribution 
in  the  Council,  based  on  a  commitment  to  promote 
dignity, dialogue and development.
Denmark  is  committed  to  an  ambitious  follow-
up  to  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, at home 
and  abroad.  We  have  provided  at  least  0.7  per  cent 
of  our  gross  national  income  in  official  development 
assistance for the past 40 years and will continue to do 
so in future. We call on all developed countries to meet 
the 0.7 per cent target. With only 13 years left to achieve 
38/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
the Sustainable Development Goals, we have no time to 
waste when it comes to fundamentally rethinking the 
United Nations Development System and its support for 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. The Secretary-
General has presented a set of clear reform proposals. 
Now  we  must  come 
their 
implementation. This is not a donor-versus-developing-
country scenario, or a North-versus-South debate. Let 
us  support  the  Secretary-General’s  plan  because  we 
agree that we all have an interest in a United Nations 
that  is  cost-effective  and  can  arrive  at  coherent  and 
sustainable  solutions  on  the  ground.  Citizens  around 
the world expect nothing less. We need to break with 
the status quo, particularly in four priority areas.
together  and  support 
First,  a  reformed  United  Nations  development 
system must deliver on the promise of unified country-
level engagements where silo-thinking, competition for 
resources and fragmented support strategies become a 
thing of the past.
immediate 
relief  and 
Secondly,  in  our  response  to  the  many  complex 
crises  around  the  world,  we  need  to  build  a  stronger 
bridge  between 
long-term 
development objectives. Our support for United Nations 
humanitarian  work  is  as  strong  as  ever.  Denmark  is 
one  of  the  world’s  largest  humanitarian  donors,  and 
in  our  2018  aid  budget  we  will  allocate  more  funds 
to humanitarian action than ever before. We are fully 
behind  the  Secretary-General’s  call  for  a  new  way  of 
working  in  responding  to  protracted  humanitarian 
crises  and  displacement.  We  must  meet  the  needs 
of  those  affected,  while  also  giving  hope  for  a  better 
future. The new way of working is about much stronger 
cooperation  and  coordination  among  partners  in  and 
outside the United Nations system, and Denmark will 
continue to play a leading role in advancing that agenda.
Thirdly,  the  United  Nations  development  system 
needs to be built on the basic premise that neither the 
United Nations nor Governments have the capacity or 
resources  to  realize  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. Partnering with the private sector, civil 
society,  academia  and  innovators  will  be  crucial. 
The  United  Nations  must  rethink  how  it  incorporates 
those  resources  on  our  way  towards  meeting  the 
2030  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Denmark  is 
taking  the  lead  to  support  strong  and  meaningful 
principle-based  partnerships.  Together  with  our 
strategic  partners  —  Chile,  Ethiopia,  Kenya,  Mexico, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  and  Viet  Nam  —  the  Danish 
Government  launched  a  new  initiative  this  week  in 
support  of  the  2030  Agenda,  entitled  Partnering  for 
Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030. The initiative 
brings together Governments, companies, cities, think 
tanks  and  investors  to  establish  and  boost  public-
private partnerships for a greener tomorrow. Through 
the  initiative,  we  will  leverage  partnerships  that  will 
help us take better care of our planet.
Fourthly,  Denmark  welcomes 
the  Secretary-
General’s strong commitment to gender equality in our 
reform efforts. Women and girls all over the world must 
be  empowered  to  contribute  to  stronger  communities 
and societies. Ensuring equal opportunities for women 
is  absolutely  crucial  for  reaching  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  In  the  Danish  Government’s 
view, gender equality is first and foremost a question 
of  dignity  and  ensuring  the  human  rights  of  all 
women  and  girls,  including  safeguarding  sexual  and 
reproductive  health  and  rights.  That  is  fundamentally 
about the right to decide over one’s own body. As one 
of the founding members of the SheDecides movement, 
Denmark  is  committed  to  continuing  to  push  for 
progress and protect the rights of all women and girls 
around the world. Just recently, Denmark announced a 
major increase in its contribution to the United Nations 
Population Fund. Too many young people today face a 
lack of opportunities and poverty. We have the largest 
youth population in history, and Denmark is committed 
to helping youth acquire the means and skills required 
to be drivers of development.
If  we  want  to  ensure  a  more  stable  and  peaceful 
future, Member States must adhere to international law 
and  common  rules  for  coexistence  and  cooperation. 
Regrettably,  we  continue  to  see  Member  States  that 
put  national  interests  before  respect  for  the  dignity 
and  rights  of  their  citizens,  or  ignore  the  legitimate 
concerns  of  their  neighbours,  as  well  as  regional  and 
global stability. The nuclear and missile tests conducted 
by the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea constitute a blatant disregard of our collective 
security,  non-proliferation  norms  and  rules,  and  the 
continued demands by the Security Council. Denmark 
strongly  condemns  that  irresponsible  behaviour  and 
calls  on  the  regime  in  Pyongyang  to  de-escalate  the 
current  situation  and  commit  to  a  peaceful  solution 
in  conformity  with  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
Security Council.
The  recent  outbreak  of  violence  in  Myanmar’s 
Rakhine state is deeply concerning. Denmark calls on 
the Government of Myanmar to facilitate humanitarian 
17-29597
39/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
assistance to all those in need and commit to aiding the 
safe  return  of  civilians  fleeing  from  the  conflict.  We 
welcome the Government’s commitment to implement 
without  delay  the  recommendations  of  the  Advisory 
Commission  on  Rakhine  State,  chaired  by  former 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan.  The  violence  must 
stop, and the security forces must ensure the protection 
of civilians. We condemn the attacks on security forces 
and the subsequent serious human rights violations. We 
applaud  the  Government  of  Bangladesh  for  providing 
protection  to  civilians  fleeing  across  the  border. 
Denmark  stands  ready  to  assist  both  Myanmar  and 
Bangladesh  in  pursuing  integrated  humanitarian  and 
development solutions for the affected areas.
Denmark stands in solidarity with all those affected 
by terrorism and violent extremism. We continue to be 
an active participant in combating those threats to our 
societies,  including  through  our  military  and  civilian 
contributions  to  the  Global  Coalition  against  Da’esh 
in  Iraq  and  Syria.  We  are  also  a  key  partner  in  other 
conflict areas, such as Afghanistan, Mali, the Sahel and 
Somalia.  To  defeat  terrorism,  we  need  to  supplement 
our  military  effort  with  broad-based  engagements 
that  also  focus  on  cutting  off  terrorist  financing  and 
repelling  extremist  propaganda  online  and  offline,  as 
well  as  stabilizing  areas  liberated  from  Da’esh  and 
building peace in conflict-affected countries.
The  United  Nations  plays  a  central  role  when  it 
comes  to  stabilizing  war-torn  countries  and  building 
lasting peace, but comprehensive reforms are needed. 
Denmark welcomes the vision of the Secretary-General 
for  the  peace  and  security  architecture  of  the  United 
Nations with a streamlined, coordinated and effective 
response  in  the  field.  As  Member  States,  we  have  an 
obligation  with  respect  to,  and  a  shared  interest  in, 
supporting  those  critical  reforms  so  that  the  United 
Nations  can  fulfil  its  purpose  and  its  promise  to  the 
world. The time for bold ambitions is now.
If we do not support reforms and deny generations’ 
hope  and  opportunity  for  a  more  prosperous  future, 
we  will  continue  to  witness  international  turmoil 
and  unprecedented  levels  of  displacement.  We  will 
continue to witness people forced to leave their homes 
and  venture  out  on  dangerous  journeys.  And  we  will 
continue to witness many people falling into the hands 
of relentless smugglers and traffickers.
Denmark  contributes  significantly 
displaced  populations  and  others 
to  helping 
in  emergency 
situations  live  dignified  lives.  Last  year,  Denmark 
contributed more than $80 million to the Syrian crisis 
alone.  Our  programmes  focus  on  helping  refugees  in 
their  regions  of  origin,  which  enables  us  to  use  our 
funds more efficiently and ultimately help more people.
Unmanaged  migration  poses  a  significant  global 
challenge. We need to strengthen our cooperation and 
commitment to existing international legal frameworks. 
In that regard, Denmark welcomes the dialogue taking 
place in preparation for the global compact on migration.
Through leadership and a renewed commitment to 
a reformed United Nations, innovation and willingness 
to challenge old ways of thinking, strong partnerships 
across  the  public-private  spectrum,  across  age  and 
gender divides and across different organizations and 
institutions,  the  opportunity  to  create  a  new  path  for 
our United Nations is here.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the general debate for this meeting.
I  shall  now  give  the  floor  to  those  speakers  who 
have asked to exercise the right of reply. May I remind 
members that statements in exercise of the right of reply 
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 
to five minutes for the second, and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Pavlichenko  (Ukraine):  I  take  the  floor  to 
exercise  Ukraine’s  right  of  reply  with  regard  to  the 
statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Russian Federation earlier today (see A/72/PV.12). 
Due to the lateness of the hour, I will be very brief. After 
all, the last thing that the General Assembly needs is to 
put the aggressor out of its misery by engaging with it.
That is why I will limit myself to just one simple 
fact,  namely,  that  Russia  has  been  recognized  by  the 
United Nations — by the General Assembly, the most 
representative  organ  of  the  Organization  —  loud 
and  clear  as  an  occupying  Power  in  Ukraine,  and  by 
extension  as  a  side  to  the  conflict.  What  does  that 
mean? It means that, as an occupying Power and side 
to the conflict, it has neither a legal nor a moral right to 
pronounce itself over Ukraine in this Hall, at least not 
until Russia returns Crimea to Ukraine, withdraws from 
the Donbas region and pays in full for its aggression.
Ms. Gambhir (India): I take the floor to exercise 
India’s right of reply in response to Pakistan’s defence 
of  terrorism.  It  is  extraordinary  that  the  State  that 
protected  Osama  Bin  Laden  and  sheltered  Mullah 
40/42 
17-29597
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.14
Omar  should  have  the  gumption  to  play  the  victim. 
By  now,  all  of  Pakistan’s  neighbours  are  painfully 
familiar with its tactics of creating narratives that are 
based on distortion, deception and deceit. The General 
Assembly, and the world beyond, knows that efforts at 
creating alternative facts do not change reality.
In  its  short  history,  Pakistan  has  become  a 
geography  synonymous  with  terror.  The  quest  for  a 
land of the pure has actually produced a land of pure 
terror. Pakistan is now terrorist-stan, with a flourishing 
industry  that  produces  and  exports  global  terrorism. 
Its current state can be attributed to the fact that Hafiz 
Muhammad  Saeed,  a  leader  of  a  United  Nations-
designated  terrorist  organization,  Lashkar-e-Taiba,  is 
now sought to be legitimized as a leader of a political 
party.  It  is  a  country  with  a  counter-terrorism  policy 
that  mainstreams  and  upstreams  terrorists,  by  either 
providing  safe  havens  to  global  terror  leaders  in  its 
military towns or protecting them with political careers. 
None  of  that  can  justify  Pakistan’s  avaricious  efforts 
in  coveting  the  territories  of  its  neighbours.  Insofar 
as  India  is  concerned,  Pakistan  must  understand  that 
the  state  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is,  and  will  always 
remain,  an  integral  part  of  India.  However  much  it 
scales up cross-border terrorism, it will never succeed 
in undermining India’s territorial integrity.
We also heard the delegation of Pakistan complain 
about  the  consequences  of  its  supposed  counter-
terrorism  efforts.  Having  diverted  billions  of  dollars 
in international military and development aid towards 
creating a dangerous infrastructure of terror on its own 
territory, Pakistan is now speaking of the high cost of 
its terror industry. The polluter, in this case, is paying 
the price.
Even  as  terrorists  thrive  in  Pakistan  and  roam  its 
streets  with  impunity,  we  have  heard  it  lecture  about 
the protection of human rights in India. The world does 
not need lessons on democracy and human rights from 
a country whose own situation is charitably described 
as a failed State.
Terrorist-stan is in fact a territory whose contribution 
to the globalization of terror is unparalleled. Pakistan 
can only be counselled to abandon a destructive world 
view  that  has  caused  grief  to  the  entire  world.  If  it 
could be persuaded to demonstrate any commitment to 
civilization,  order  and  peace,  it  might  still  find  some 
acceptance in the comity of nations.
Mr.  Salarzai 
(Afghanistan):  My  delegation 
exercises its right of reply owing to one Member State’s 
erroneous claim regarding the presence of safe havens 
and  sanctuaries  in  Afghanistan.  That  reference  is  a 
deliberate  attempt  by  the  Government  of  Pakistan  to 
divert  international  attention  away  from  Pakistan’s 
longstanding  failure  to  take  effective  action  against 
various terrorist groups and sanctuaries on its territory. 
It  remains  evidently  clear  to  the  global  community 
that the propagation of terrorist activities by State and 
non-State  actors  in  neighbouring  Pakistan  constitutes 
the  main  source  of 
in  our  country, 
Afghanistan, and the region.
insecurity 
Afghanistan  has  persistently  and  consistently 
sought to address that outstanding issue through various 
channels,  including  bilateral  and  other  mechanisms. 
Nevertheless, efforts to that end have yielded no results 
whatsoever.  At  this  juncture,  Pakistan  has  another 
opportunity  to  engage  in  a  comprehensive  dialogue 
to  resolve  outstanding  issues  that  have  prevented  it 
from adopting a clear and decisive stance in combating 
terrorism  and  a  constructive  approach  for  peace  and 
security  in  Afghanistan  and  the  wider  region.  In 
seeking  a  clear  picture  of  the  current  situation,  let  us 
ask the following questions
Where was Osama Bin Laden, the mastermind of the 
international  terrorist  organization  Al-Qaida,  killed? 
The  answer:  near  the  capital  of  Pakistan,  Islamabad. 
Where did the notorious leader of the Taliban, Mullah 
Mohammed  Omar,  die?  The  answer:  in  a  hospital  in 
Karachi, Pakistan. Where was Mullah Akhtar Mansour, 
the  successor  of  Mullah  Omar,  found  and  killed  by 
international  forces?  The  answer:  in  Balochistan, 
Pakistan. And guess which country’s passport he was 
using to travel to different locations? Again, Pakistan. 
Where  is  the  leadership  of  the  Quetta  Shura  and  the 
Peshawar  Shura  located  at  this  very  moment?  The 
names  of  those  locations  speak  for  themselves.  From 
what country has almost every single terrorist element 
and group and more than 20 internationally recognized 
terrorist groups entered into Afghanistan and continue 
to do so? Pakistan.
I  have  mentioned  just  a  few  examples  of  the 
persistent support from Pakistan enjoyed by extremist 
groups.  Moreover,  that  is  not  just  hearsay  from 
Afghanistan;  it  has  been  acclaimed  and  verified  by 
very  credible  international  sources.  Long  before  an 
international  intervention  and  the  so-called  civil  war 
17-29597
41/42
A/72/PV.14 
21/09/2017
in Afghanistan, Pakistan adopted a policy of the use of 
violent proxies in its pursuit of political objectives.
Although  there  is  no  need  to  do  so,  we  wish  to 
categorically reject any claim of any support provided 
to  terrorist  groups  in  Afghanistan.  The  facts  speak 
for themselves. Now it is  time for Pakistan to opt for 
a  constructive  approach  in  combating  terrorism  and 
promoting peace in our region.
Lastly,  was  it  not  His  Excellency  Prime  Minister 
Abbasi himself, who, in an interview a few days ago, 
admitted  that  the  culprits  of  the  massive  terrorist 
bombing  on  21  May  in  Kabul  may  have  entered 
Afghanistan from Pakistan?
Moving forward, we will use any means possible, 
including negotiation and dialogue, to ensure security 
and stability for our people. In that context, our resolve 
and commitment to defeat terrorism is unwavering, and 
that is evidenced in the sacrifice of our brave Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces every day.
Mr. Usman (Pakistan): It is unfortunate that India 
has chosen to criticize the statement made by the Prime 
Minister  of  Pakistan  that  reflects  the  sentiments  and 
aspirations  of  the  oppressed  and  suffering  people  of 
Jammu  and  Kashmir  as  they  face  tyranny,  repression 
and brutalities by the illegal and unjust occupation by 
India. The plight of the Kashmiri people at the hands 
of  the  Indian  occupation  forces  is  being  documented 
by  the  international  community  and  reputable  human 
rights organizations.
The people of India-occupied Jammu and Kashmir 
look to the international community, especially to the 
members  of  the  Security  Council,  to  deliver  on  their 
pledge  to  hold  a  free,  fair  and  impartial  plebiscite, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  to  enable 
them to decide their future. Let me re-emphasize and 
reject any misconceptions that India may have wished 
to create. India is responsible for undermining regional 
peace and stability.
I have the sad duty to inform those present that only 
yesterday, due to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling 
by Indian forces on the Line of Control in Jammu and 
Kashmir,  at  least  10  innocent  civilians,  including 
many women, lost their lives on the Pakistan side. The 
shelling continues unabated — a sad reminder of Indian 
intransigence and stubbornness. That, too, shall fail.
The  strategy  of  an  offensive  defence  and 
double-squeeze flouted blatantly by National Security 
Adviser  Doval,  which  India  believes  can  make  it 
a  regional  hegemony,  can  never  succeed.  Indian 
operators  of  mayhem  and  terror,  such  as  commander 
Jadav, caught red-handed in Pakistan while spreading 
sabotage,  terrorism  and  espionage,  can  never  fulfil 
Indian dreams, which will remain just that, dreams.
For  our  Bangladeshi  brothers  and  sisters,  let  me 
add that they have to emerge from the narrative of hate 
and dispel the twisted notions of history. There are no 
takers  for  their  contentions.  The  issues  of  1971  were 
agreed upon and settled under the tripartite agreement 
of  1974,  which  was  signed  by  India,  Pakistan  and 
Bangladesh. We have to move on.
Instead  of  blaming  others  for  its  problems  and 
failures,  Afghanistan  should  focus  on  eradicating 
safe  havens  for  terrorists  in  its  undergoverned  spaces 
and  dealing  with  its  white  economy  and  narco-State 
problem.  That  is  the  major  threat  to  regional  peace 
and stability.
The meeting rose at 10.45 p.m.
42/42 
17-29597
