United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
49th plenary meeting
Monday, 13 November 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Council  will  be  considered  as  elected,  pursuant  to 
Article 10, paragraph 1, of the Statute.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 113 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c)  Election of five members of the International 
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/72/181)
List of candidates (A/72/182 and A/72/182/
Add.1)
Curricula vitae (A/72/183)
The  Acting  President:  As  members  will  recall, 
there is still one vacancy on the Court to be filled. The 
Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  vote  in  respect  of  the 
remaining  vacancy,  and  we  will  maintain  the  same 
format used for the 44th and 45th meetings on this item, 
held last Thursday. Accordingly, the General Assembly 
and the Security Council will proceed, independently of 
each other, to fill the one remaining seat on the Court, 
in accordance with Article 8 of the Statute of the Court.
This  election  in  the  Assembly  will  be  held  in 
accordance with the Statute of the Court, in particular 
Articles 2 to 4 and 7 to 12, and rules 150 and 151 of the 
rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
The candidate who obtains an absolute majority of 
votes both in the General Assembly and in the Security 
Once again, I should like to remind representatives 
that, pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of procedure,
“After the President has announced the beginning 
of  voting,  no  representative  shall  interrupt  the 
voting except on a point of order in connection with 
the actual conduct of the voting”.
Any  announcements,  including  those  concerning 
withdrawals of candidatures, should therefore be made 
prior to the commencement of the voting process, that 
is to say, before the announcement of the beginning of 
the voting process.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
papers  will  now  be  distributed.  Ballot  papers  will  be 
given only to the representative seated directly behind 
the country’s nameplate. Representatives are requested 
to use only the ballot papers that are being distributed.
The  two  candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the 
ballot paper are eligible.
May  I  remind  delegations  that  only  the  box  next 
to the name of one candidate should be marked with a 
cross. Any ballot paper on which more than one name 
is checked will be considered invalid. Votes may be cast 
only for those whose names appear on the ballot papers.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Aldoseri 
(Bahrain), Ms. Sánchez Rodríguez (Cuba), Mrs. Le 
Diffard (Hungary), Ms. Rheindrayani (Indonesia), 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37658 (E)
*1737658*
A/72/PV.49 
13/11/2017
Mr. McSwiney (Ireland) and Mr. Waweru (Kenya) 
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  3.20  p.m.  and 
resumed at 3.45 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots: 
Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 
Number of members present and voting: 
Absolute majority: 
Number of individual votes obtained:
192
0
192
3
189
97
110
Mr. Dalveer Bhandari (India) 
Mr. Christopher Greenwood (United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ) 
79
Mr.  Dalveer  Bhandari  obtained  an  absolute 
majority in the General Assembly.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  communicated 
the  result  of  the  voting  to  the  President  of  the 
Security Council.
The  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  has 
received from the President of the Security Council the 
following letter, which I will read out on behalf of the 
President of the Assembly.
“I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you  that  at  the 
8094th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
13  November  2017,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
one  member  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
for a term of office beginning on 6 February 2018, 
Mr.  Christopher  Greenwood  (United  Kingdom  of 
Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland)  obtained  an 
absolute majority of votes.”
The  same  candidate  was  not  successful  in  both 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  In 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article  11  of  the 
Statute of the Court, it will be necessary to hold another 
meeting  to  fill  the  remaining  vacancy.  I  propose  that 
this  meeting  be  adjourned  and  that  the  50th  meeting 
be held immediately to vote on the remaining vacancy. 
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 3.50 p.m.
2/2 
17-37658
