United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
19th plenary meeting
Saturday, 23 September 2017, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.19
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President 
of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Democratic Republic of 
the Congo.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Kabila  Kabange  (spoke  in  French):  I 
wish to express my very warm congratulations, Sir, on 
your election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session, which is an acknowledgement 
of your distinguished career as a diplomat and a tribute 
to  your  country,  Slovakia.  I  would  also  like  to  pay 
tribute  to  Secretary-General  António  Guterres  for  his 
leadership  and  efforts  to  strengthen  the  role  of  our 
Organization during this first year of his term of office.
The  theme  of  this  session  —  “Focusing  on 
people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”  —  responds  to  the  concerns 
of  the  moment  in  most  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
Organization.  I  am  pleased  with  it,  as  it  is  consistent 
with  the  logic  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and  because,  for  my  country,  peace,  stability  and  the 
improvement of our people’s living conditions are the 
Government’s priorities.
Seventy-two years ago the Organization was born 
out of the ambition to reform relations among States on 
the basis of the principle of sovereign equality and the 
desire to guarantee peace and prosperity for all. That 
ambition remains relevant and is carried forward every 
day  by  the  commitment  of  women  and  men  who  are 
determined to see it fulfilled, sometimes at the risk of 
their lives.
In the face of the rise of terrorism in various forms, it 
is indisputable that the world to which we aspire depends 
on how we address peace and security issues. For the 
past year, my country has been the victim of terrorist 
attacks, especially in the Kasai provinces and even in 
the capital, by certain armed groups whose objective is 
to destroy the peace so dearly acquired, so as to thwart 
the  dynamics  of  consensus-based  problem-solving  at 
the  national  level  and  to  undermine  our  development 
efforts.  In  the  Kasai,  a  mystico-tribal  militia  is  using 
the  civilian  population,  including  children,  as  human 
shields and is attacking people and public buildings that 
symbolize the authority of the State. It is thereby sowing 
terror — decapitating law-enforcement officers, agents 
of the Independent National Electoral Commission, and 
administrative and traditional authorities.
Those  were 
the  circumstances  of  deplorable 
barbarity  in  which  the  two  United  Nations  experts 
lost  their  lives  in  March.  We  are  determined  to  make 
sure  that  light  is  shed  on  the  exact  circumstances  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29801 (E)
*1729801*
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
that crime so that that horrible act, as well as those to 
which  our  countrymen  have  been  subjected,  will  not 
go  unpunished.  That  is  why  public  trials  were  begun 
several weeks ago, following the arrest of most of those 
presumed  to  be  guilty.  That  was  also  the  purpose  of 
the  recent  conference  on  peace,  reconciliation  and 
development,  which  aimed  to  establish  the  truth  of 
what really happened in those central provinces of the 
country,  to  promote  reconciliation  among  the  people 
of  those  provinces  and  to  affirm  our  belief  that  all 
reconciliation  necessarily  involves  justice  and  that 
there can be no real and lasting peace without justice.
My  country  remains  open 
to  all  forms  of 
collaboration on that subject. Thanks to that approach, 
which  combines  the  restoration  of  State  authority, 
dialogue and restorative justice, we have been able to 
reverse  the  dangerous  trend  in  the  security  situation 
in  the  centre  of  the  country,  which  has  improved 
very significantly.
In the eastern part of the country, laudable efforts 
by the national defence and security forces have in turn 
allowed us to contain the terrorist attacks of the Allied 
Democratic  Forces,  which  plagued  our  populations 
daily. We are convinced that the subregional cooperation 
initiative  involving  my  country,  South  Sudan  and  the 
Central African Republic will also allow us to halt the 
terrorist  threat  posed  by  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army. 
Our  participation  in  the  process  should  be  seen  as 
evidence  of  our  determination  in  the  coalition’s  fight 
against that threat.
With regard to combating sexual violence, I welcome 
the outstanding progress recorded by the courts, which 
have handed down hundreds of convictions for rape. No 
one has been spared from prosecution because of social 
position or military rank, which is proof that impunity 
in that area has ended.
Two  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  it  is  not  too  early  to 
begin  monitoring  its  implementation.  In  carrying  out 
its  commitments,  my  country  has  begun  the  process 
of prioritizing the environmental, social and economic 
dimensions  of  sustainable  development  in  elaborating 
and implementing its national development plan. More 
specifically, in support of the Global Action Programme 
on Education for Sustainable Development, my country 
has  been  focusing  on  expanding  access  and  equity, 
improving  the  quality  of  teaching  and  learning  and 
improving governance in the educational sector.
We  are  are  pleased  with  the  increased  access  of 
girls to schools. Over 10 years, their enrolment rate has 
increased from 70 per cent to nearly 105 per cent. We 
are implementing plans to build thousands of schools, 
without neglecting in-depth reforms in that area.
Climate change is one of our greatest concerns, as 
it is a threat to humankind and our fundamental rights. 
Every  State  has  the  responsibility  to  contribute  to 
limiting its impact. My country and the other countries 
in the Congo basin — home to the second-largest forest 
reserve  in  the  world  —  are  equipped,  through  the 
Central  African  Forest  Commission,  to  help  improve 
the quality of life on our planet. For its part, my country 
intends  to  uphold  all  of  its  commitments,  beginning 
with the ratification of the Paris Agreement, which is 
now under way.
Like  peace,  political  stability  is  for  us  a  constant 
objective of our domestic policy. In that vein, for nearly 
a  year  we  have  been  engaging  in  a  dialogue  that  for 
us  is  a  standing  method  of  settling  political  disputes. 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
African Union and other regional organizations. We are 
grateful for their support in that process. I also welcome 
the  efforts  of  all  the  political  forces  in  my  country 
who,  in  the  search  for  a  comprehensive  consensus 
on  the  electoral  process,  arrived  at  the  agreement  of 
31  December  2016,  the  ultimate  aim  of  which  is  the 
holding of elections.
At the request of all stakeholders for a new electoral 
register, voter registration has been under way for more 
than a year now. The last phase has just begun in the 
last two provinces in the centre of the country. We are 
pleased that more than 42 million voters of the projected 
45  million  have  already  been  registered.  In  addition, 
a  series  of  evaluations  of  the  electoral  process  was 
started  some  10  days  ago  by  the  National  Monitoring 
Council, jointly with the Government and the Electoral 
Commission, which should allow for the publication of 
the electoral calendar by the Commission, which is the 
only competent institution in that regard.
Despite  that  progress,  however,  the  challenges  of 
organizing  elections  in  my  country  remain  enormous 
in terms of logistics, finances, security and legislation. 
We are confronting those obstacles with humility, but 
also  with  indisputable  tenacity.  Given  the  advances 
that  have  been  made,  I  affirm  that  we  are  moving 
towards  credible,  transparent  and  peaceful  elections 
and that our progress in that direction is irreversible, all 
2/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
without external interference or any fiats. I ask the true 
friends of my country to sincerely support our ongoing 
electoral process.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations 
imposes 
obligations  on  us,  including  striving  to  building  a 
better world. For that reason, the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  maintains  a  strategic  dialogue  with  the 
United  Nations  on  the  future  of  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), in accordance with 
the relevant Security Council resolution. That strategic 
review  should  determine  the  pace  of  the  reduction  of 
the MONUSCO force until its full withdrawal.
It is clear that, after almost 20 years of deployment, 
the  United  Nations  force  cannot  expect  to  stay  in  my 
country  indefinitely  or  to  exercise  its  mandate  in 
the  same  format  and  without  drawing  lessons  from 
the  weaknesses  that  have  been  identified.  What  is 
important  to  us,  and  what  should  be  important  to 
everybody,  is  the  credibility  of  the  Organization  and 
the effectiveness of the contribution of United Nations 
troops  on  the  ground.  That  is  why,  for  several  years 
now,  we  have  been  requesting  the  adjustment  of  the 
MONUSCO force to suit its dynamic missions, and the 
reorientation of resources thus freed up towards meeting 
our  development  needs.  In  that  area,  as  in  others,  we 
do not intend to compromise on the respect due to the 
sovereignty of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
which is guaranteed by the Charter of the Organization.
I would like to believe that all who place their hopes 
in the United Nations — including my country — will 
fully commit to the implementation of the Sustainable 
Development Goals and to the long-awaited reform of 
the Organization. I wish the Assembly every success in 
its work.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address  by  Mr.  Taban  Deng  Gai,  First 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the First Vice-President of the Republic of 
South Sudan.
Mr.  Taban  Deng  Gai,  First  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Taban Deng Gai, First Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr. Gai (South Sudan): I am honoured to deliver 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Salva 
Kiir  Mayardit,  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan,  who  unfortunately  could  not  be  present  today 
owing to pressing domestic commitments back home.
I wish to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session. South Sudan affirms it commitment to playing 
its  role  in  supporting  you  as  you  lead  this  historic 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate His Excellency Mr. António Guterres and 
his  Deputy,  Her  Excellency  Amina  Mohammed,  for 
winning the confidence of this institution. South Sudan 
stands ready to cooperate and work closely with them.
The theme the President selected for this session, 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet”,  resonates  very 
well  with  the  aspirations  of  our  nation  for  peace, 
unity,  development  and  prosperity.  It  is  also  in  line 
with  President  Salva  Kiir  Mayardit’s  declaration  of 
2017 as the Year of Peace and Prosperity. That solemn 
declaration  is  intended  to  cement  our  resolve  that  the 
aspirations  of  our  people,  for  which  they  have  fought 
long and hard, be realized.
However, the realization of peace is greatly impeded 
by a lack of resources. We commend the efforts of the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), 
the  African  Union  (AU)  and  international  partners 
to  shun  and  isolate  political  actors  who  seek  power 
through violence. We urge all stakeholders to continue 
embracing  that  common  position,  and  we  renew  our 
17-29801
3/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
commitment  to  further  building  on  the  progress  we 
have made in order to ensure that our people inherit the 
future that we have always envisioned and aspired to.
Nonetheless,  we  do  not  wish  to  delude  ourselves 
that  peace,  unity  and  development  can  be  achieved 
overnight.  On  the  contrary,  they  require  relentless 
and concerted efforts, dedication and commitment by 
all  partners,  which  we  are  willingly,  consciously  and 
vigorously pursuing.
We  strongly  believe  that  peace  is  not  a  one-day 
affair  or  event.  For  us  and  our  friendly  partners  in 
peace,  there  is  simply  no  other  viable  alternative  to 
making peace. Nonetheless, bringing about peace takes 
time. Attaining peace in South Sudan is a process that 
will  require  our  collective  efforts.  It  is  a  consistent 
and  persistent  accumulation  of  positive  steps  towards 
achieving  the  world  that  we  envision  for  the  future 
generations in our country, in our continent and in our 
world at large.
It is therefore against that backdrop that the South 
Sudanese  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity 
has embraced the full implementation of the Agreement 
on  the  Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan as the only instrument pivotal to achieving 
that mission and vision. By way of updating the General 
Assembly, allow me to highlight some of the important 
steps that our Government has taken to further enhance 
the achievement of peace in our young country.
The  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity 
continues to stand by its commitment to implementing 
the unilateral ceasefire that was announced by President 
Salva  Kiir  Mayardit  in  May  2017,  and  continues  to 
call to estranged opposition groups to reciprocate our 
gesture of extending an olive branch.
support 
from 
With 
friendly  partners, 
the 
Government  has  embarked  upon  implementing  key 
aspects of the transitional security arrangements, such 
as security-sector reform, the cantonment of forces and 
the  training  of  the  Joint  Integrated  Police  (JIP)  in  an 
effort to demilitarize our communities. We hope that the 
recently graduated JIP for Juba will be an example that 
can  be  emulated  in  other  security  sector  institutions, 
especially  through  the  overhaul  and  restructuring  of 
the Sudan People’s Liberation Army into a professional 
national army.
The  Transitional  Government 
is  spearheading  grass-roots 
Unity 
of  National 
intercommunal 
peace  initiatives,  as  ongoing  communal  conflicts 
characterized by cattle-rustling, child abduction, high 
bride dowry and land disputes can be serious stumbling 
blocks to peace. It is essential to find ways to transform 
the way our communities interact with each other, and 
the  international  community  should  encourage  and 
support  Government  efforts  and  invest  in  measures 
aimed  at  addressing  those  local  conflicts  so  that 
success stories can be replicated all over South Sudan 
at different phases of our national dialogue.
It is in that area that I would like to highlight the role 
of young South Sudanese as either agents of, or detractors 
from,  peace.  One  example  of  an  intercommunal  feud 
involving  cattle-rustling  and  child  abduction  almost 
escalated into an uncontrolled conflict simply because 
the youth from the different communities were incited 
to violence. That makes us appreciate that our collective 
effort  to  ensure  the  situation  in  South  Sudan  can  be 
salvaged only by embracing peace.
I also wish to highlight the important role that South 
Sudanese women continue to play as peacebuilders and 
custodians of intercommunal peace initiatives.
is  engaging 
It is against that background that the Transitional 
Government  of  National  Unity,  with  the  support  of 
religious leaders, the United Nations Mission in South 
Sudan,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme 
and  other  partners, 
in  grass-roots, 
people-to-people  peace  by  investing  in  improving 
economic  activities  among  communities,  such  as 
building  markets,  rehabilitating  schools,  constructing 
fishing  storage  facilities  and  peacefully  disarming 
armed communities. All of that has improved relations 
among  warring  communities,  host  communities  and 
internally displaced persons.
We in South Sudan are currently optimistic about 
the  return  of  peace.  We  have  recently  witnessed 
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  gradually 
returning  to  their  villages  voluntarily,  and  several 
steps  within  communities  indicate  that  the  movement 
towards coexistence and living in harmony is a reality.
There  will  be  challenges  and  reversals,  but  the 
direction  of  movement  should  be  the  big  picture.  We 
are very open to listening to counsel and to joint action, 
but  we  also  expect  our  partners  to  acknowledge  and 
reciprocate progress and to demonstrate some sense of 
respect and trust. An overtly confrontational approach 
risks creating a siege-and-bunker mentality. However, 
4/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
we  are  confident  that  soon  violence  and  wars  will  be 
stories of the past in the Republic of South Sudan.
The  national  dialogue 
initiative  declared  by 
President  Salva  Kiir  Mayardit  is  making  strong  and 
steady  progress  with  regard  to  the  Government’s 
commitment  to  addressing  a  number  of  political  and 
security  issues,  with  a  view  to  creating  an  enabling 
environment  for  dialogue.  Some  major  steps  taken 
include the release of prisoners, including journalists; 
the  expansion  of  the  Steering  Committee  to  include 
all  the  relevant  stakeholders  in  the  country;  an 
ongoing effort to reach out to opposition figures; and 
a declaration of unilateral cessation of hostilities. The 
primary objective of the national dialogue initiative is 
to promote reconciliation and enhance confidence in the 
peace process so as to make dialogue not just the only 
viable option for resolving conflict but also a foundation 
for the national constitutional review process.
At this juncture, I would like to note that the Steering 
Committee  for  the  National  Dialogue  Initiative  has 
embarked upon engagement with all shades of political 
opinion, in particular those living outside South Sudan, 
in order to ensure that the national dialogue is inclusive 
and that its outcomes reflect the views of all components 
of the South Sudanese community.
is  engaging 
The  Steering  Committee 
teams 
of  resource  persons  who  will  go  to  all  the  states, 
counties, payams and bomas to organize meetings with 
representatives  of  the  relevant  groups  to  seek  their 
views  on  the  grievances  held  by  their  people  and  to 
ensure that those grievances are effectively addressed 
and  remedied.  The  results  of  those  discussions  in  the 
states will be reported to the Steering Committee, which 
will in turn present them to the larger national dialogue 
conference. The process will end with recommendations 
and  resolutions  that  will  be  presented  to  the  national 
leadership  under  the  presidency  and  to  the  national 
Parliament for final adoption and implementation.
Our  Government  is  supportive  of  the  efforts 
aimed at revitalizing the implementation of the peace 
agreement.  We  recently  convened  in  our  capital, 
Juba,  a  meeting  of  the  IGAD  Council  of  Ministers  to 
deliberate on ways to further expedite the preparation 
for  the  establishment  of  a  high-level  revitalization 
forum, which is envisaged to focus on practical ways 
to expedite the implementation of the peace agreement.
Today  South  Sudan  enjoys  cordial  relations  with 
its  neighbours.  Those  countries  —  Ethiopia,  Kenya, 
corridors 
the Sudan and Uganda — are hosting South Sudanese 
refugees,  providing 
for  humanitarian 
access  and  supporting  development  projects,  all  of 
which  further  enhance  the  efforts  of  the  Transitional 
Government  of  National  Unity  to  bring  about  peace. 
We  are  dependent  upon  those  good  relations  in  order 
to  revive  and  increase  oil  production,  construct  and 
maintain  important  road  infrastructure  and  provide 
electricity  in  the  border  towns —  key  ingredients  for 
boosting the economy and work as incentives for peace.
Concerning  Abyei,  our  Government  reaffirms  its 
willingness  and  readiness  to  implement  the  proposal 
of the African Union High-level Implementation Panel 
for the Sudan and South Sudan, of 21 September 2012, 
which,  as  presented  by  the  Panel,  was  accepted  by 
President  Salva  Kiir  Mayardit.  We  are  hopeful  that 
the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  will  soon  resume  cooperation  in  implementing 
that proposal.
I wish to report to the Assembly that our Government 
is cooperating with the United Nations Mission in South 
Sudan and is facilitating the deployment of the Regional 
Protection Force (RPF). In the past few months we have 
witnessed the arrival of members of the advance RPF, 
as  agreed  with  the  United  Nations.  The  Government 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  working  closely  with 
the  United  Nations,  the  AU  and  IGAD  to  oversee  the 
smooth  implementation  and  operationalization  of  the 
mandate of those troops in South Sudan.
The  Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity 
continues to work towards ensuring that humanitarian 
access  to  those  in  need  is  unhindered.  That  has  been 
done  through  continuous  and  open  dialogue  with  aid 
agencies striving to have more humanitarian corridors 
opened  up.  I  wish  to  commend  the  concerted  efforts 
of  the  various  humanitarian  agencies  that  responded 
positively and worked to reverse the famine situation in 
parts of South Sudan. Despite some gains, I stress that 
continued  support  is  necessary  if  we  are  to  achieve  a 
hunger-free South Sudan. I wish to take this opportunity 
to express our condolences and prayers to the families 
of those humanitarian aid workers who lost their lives 
in the line of duty in the Republic of South Sudan.
While we appreciate that saving lives is important, 
we also ought to save livelihoods. We cannot continue 
to  mop  the  floor  while  the  tap  is  open.  The  old 
“humanitarian 
intervention  first  and  development 
later”  paradigm  is  not  a  viable  policy  in  the  case  of 
17-29801
5/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
South Sudan. It is important to incentivize peace and 
stability through a balanced approach to development 
and  embracing  a  new  way  of  working.  Stabilization 
and  recovery  initiatives  are  essential,  and  emergency 
support  needs  to  be  effectively  complemented  with 
some level of economic dynamism that provides a new 
platform for social cohesion and resilience-building.
As partners, we all need to do business differently. 
As  a  Government,  we  will  redouble  our  efforts  to 
ensure  access  and  improve  the  enabling  environment 
for humanitarian intervention. It is our expectation that 
a  smart  combination  and  calibration  of  development 
and  humanitarian  support  is  needed  to  maintain 
positive momentum.
Our ultimate goal and responsibility is to provide 
an opportunity for peace to all South Sudanese people, 
one that will enable them to choose their own leaders 
through  free,  fair  and  credible  elections.  Our  focus 
for  the  remaining  months  of  the  transitional  period, 
therefore, is to ensure that adequate preparation and a 
environment  conducive  to  those  elections  are  our  top 
priorities,  and  we  will  see  to  it  that  peace  is  realized 
and that sufficient resources are allocated to that task.
These  efforts  are  core  building  blocks  and 
prerequisites  for  boosting  confidence  among  and 
within our communities, which will stimulate them to 
voluntarily and gradually return to their homes. I would 
like  to  reiterate  our  position  that  those  efforts  can  be 
sustained if, and only if, all political actors continue to 
respect and reciprocate the unilateral ceasefire declared 
by President Salva Kiir Mayardit earlier this year.
The progress we speak of can come about only when 
we start to see progress in the reform of the Security 
Council. Reform of the Council is an urgent task, since 
its current composition and functioning do not reflect the 
realities of the international community in the twenty-
first century. In order to achieve concrete progress on 
Council  reform,  it  is  imperative  to  launch  text-based 
negotiations  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
during the Assembly’s seventy-second session.
In  that  connection,  South  Sudan  wishes  to  add 
its voice in expressing its concerns with regard to the 
increasing  tensions  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  South 
Sudan supports the call of the international community 
urging North Korea to fully comply with the relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  on  nuclear  tests  and 
ballistic-missile  launches.  South  Sudan  urges  North 
Korea to show sincere will and concrete actions towards 
the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
With  regard  to  climate  change,  although  South 
Sudan’s greenhouse-gas emissions are negligible, it is 
one of the countries worst affected by climate change. The 
country is experiencing recurring droughts. According 
to  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change, 
it  is  the  fastest-warming  country  in  the  region,  with 
flooding and the loss of biodiversity and of livelihoods. 
I am glad to inform the Assembly that South Sudan has 
ratified  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and 
has prepared its national determined contributions and 
national adaptation programme of action to implement 
the projects embodied in both documents.
Allow  me  now  to  extend  my  appreciation  to  the 
countries members of IGAD, IGAD-Plus, the AU and 
the Troika, and China, Japan, Germany and the broader 
international community for their support for the peace 
process  and  development  in  my  country.  Although 
we  appreciate  that  South  Sudan  as  a  nation  cannot 
operate  in  isolation,  the  direction  of  the  way  forward 
must be South-Sudanese-led and its solutions must be 
home  grown  if  we  are  genuinely  striving  to  achieve 
sustainable results.
Long live South Sudan. Long live the United Nations.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the First Vice-President of the Republic 
of South Sudan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Taban  Deng  Gai,  First  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Yosiwo George, Vice-President 
of the Federated States of Micronesia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Federated  States 
of Micronesia.
Mr. Yosiwo George, Vice-President of the Federated 
States of Micronesia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Yosiwo George, Vice-President of 
the Federated States of Micronesia, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly
Mr. George (Federated States of Micronesia): Let 
me  at  the  outset  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  assuming 
your  role  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  I 
6/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
also  congratulate  your  predecessor,  Ambassador 
Peter  Thomson  of  Fiji,  for  a  job  well  done  over  the 
past  year.  I  must  also  mention  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  António  Guterres.  Since  assuming  the  leadership 
of the Organization a few months ago, he has already 
shown himself to be more than equal to the tremendous 
tasks associated with his high office.
As we gather here today in this great Hall, natural 
disasters and calamities are striking in many parts of 
our world. Hurricanes, typhoons and earthquakes have 
devastated  communities  and  displaced  thousands  of 
people  in  just  the  past  few  days.  To  the  victims  and 
their families around the world, I offer our sympathies 
and condolences on behalf of the Government and the 
people of the Federated States of Micronesia.
We  condemn  terrorist  attacks,  which  have  taken 
innocent lives. Micronesia pledges its resolve to stand 
united  against  terrorism,  in  solidarity  with  affected 
nations. On behalf of the Micronesian Government and 
its people, I offer our deepest condolences to all those 
nations  and  families  that  have  suffered  losses  at  the 
hands of terrorists.
As we witness current record-breaking megastorms, 
we  cannot  ignore  their  connection  to  climate  change, 
especially  to  ocean  warming  and  sea-level  rise.  In 
the  wake  of  those  devastating  events,  we  must  not 
only  stay  committed  to  our  collective  fight  against 
climate change, but we must also redouble our efforts. 
Climate  change  is  one  of  the  most  serious  threats 
to  global  peace  and  security,  endangering  the  very 
existence of our islands. It needs to be at the top of the 
agenda of the General Assembly. As the United Nations 
undertakes  efforts  to  reorient  its  work  around  the 
priorities of peace and prevention, the United Nations 
system  will  have  to  adapt.  We  reiterate  our  call  for 
the appointment of a special representative on climate 
change and security.
Climate  change  mitigation  is  also  essential  to 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
and  the  targets  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  including  the  eradication  of  poverty, 
ending  hunger,  building 
infrastructure 
and  shared  prosperity.  Without  progress  in  fighting 
climate  change,  our  sustainable  development  efforts 
will be futile. That is particularly true for small island 
developing States.
resilient 
The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  has 
provided an avenue to enhance cooperation in our fight 
against  climate  change,  and  the  world  must  seize  the 
moment. Micronesia expresses grave concern that some 
countries  have  chosen  to  break  with  the  international 
community  and  neglect  the  Paris  Agreement,  against 
the best scientific advice. As a small island developing 
nation at the forefront of the battle, Micronesia calls on 
all States to fully engage in global efforts to implement 
the  Paris  Agreement,  support  the  Green  Climate 
Fund  and  access  thereto,  and  contribute  innovative 
climate solutions.
I  would  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  a  story 
of  global  cooperation  at  its  finest.  This  is  a  story  of 
a treaty that was designed to save the ozone layer and 
succeeded, but it has also made major contributions to 
climate-change  mitigation.  The  Montreal  Protocol  on 
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is considered 
the most successful multilateral environmental treaty of 
all time. That is why the 194 parties to the Protocol met 
last year in Kigali and agreed to amend the Protocol and 
expand its scope. Specifically, the Kigali Amendment 
allows  the  Protocol  to  regulate  hydrofluorocarbons 
(HFCs), which are chemicals used in refrigeration and 
air  conditioning  that  can  contribute  significantly  to 
global  warming.  Phasing  down  the  use  of  HFCs  will 
help  prevent  0.5°C  of  global  temperature  rise,  and 
complementary  energy-efficiency  measures  in  the 
same sector could help avoid another 0.5°C of warming.
We thank the parties to the Montreal Protocol that 
have already ratified the Kigali Amendment, totalling 
eight out of the 20 needed for the Agreement to enter into 
force. We call on other parties to ratify the Agreement 
as soon as possible, ideally before the next Meeting of 
the Parties, in Canada in November.
Along  with  the  Paris  Agreement,  the  Kigali 
Amendment is a major step towards the survival of small 
island  States.  As  the  story  of  the  Kigali  Amendment 
demonstrates,  with 
intelligence,  perseverance  and 
cooperation,  we  can  achieve  anything.  That  is  the 
motivation  that  keeps  us  all  working  together  for  a 
better future.
In the islands we say the ocean is us, as we are the 
ocean. As an island nation, Micronesia fully supported 
and  participated  actively 
the  United  Nations 
Ocean  Conference  in  June.  The  Call  for  Action  from 
the  Conference,  entitled  “Our  Ocean,  Our  Future,” 
highlights  the  actions  required  to  achieve  the  targets 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14.  Micronesia 
supports  the  intention  to  organize  a  second  United 
in 
17-29801
7/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
Nations Ocean Conference, in 2020, which will enable 
us to follow up on the commitments made at the first 
Conference and to assess our progress towards the full 
implementation of SDG 14 by 2030. We look forward to 
the work of the Special Envoy for the Ocean to maintain 
the momentum.
At  the  recent  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Leaders 
Meeting  in  Samoa,  our  leaders  endorsed  the  Blue 
Pacific identity as the core driver of collective action in 
the Pacific region. That was a fitting progression from 
last  year’s  Pohnpei  Oceans  Statement,  as  elements  of 
the  Blue  Pacific  narrative  reinforce  the  potential  for 
shared stewardship of the Pacific Ocean.
We  must  now  show  ambition  in  tackling  the 
mounting threats to the health of our ocean. The special 
case of small island developing States must be enshrined 
in the forthcoming implementing agreement under the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  We 
welcome the successful conclusion of the meetings of 
the Preparatory Committee, and now we must urgently 
launch and conclude the intergovernmental conference 
to draft and adopt a new legally binding agreement.
For  Pacific  islands,  fisheries  are  a  mainstay  of 
our economies, our most important renewable natural 
resource  and  an  integral  part  of  our  sustainable 
development  plans.  Effective 
and 
management  of  our  tuna  resource  is  important  not 
only  for  us  who  depend  on  it  for  our  livelihoods  and 
sustainable development, but also for addressing global 
food-security concerns. We must remain steadfast in our 
efforts  to  combat  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing in all its forms.
conservation 
I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
concerns about the lack of recognition of, and respect 
for,  the  rights  of  coastal  States  such  as  Micronesia 
to  manage  fisheries  in  their  own  exclusive  economic 
zones (EEZs). In the Western and Central Pacific, some 
developed-country  fishing  nations  are  advocating  for 
flag-based  rights  in  regional  fisheries  management 
organizations. Such measures would undermine existing 
zone-based management measures and erode the ability 
of small island developing States, as resource owners, to 
exercise their sovereign rights under international law. 
That would not be an acceptable outcome. Therefore, we 
call on those developed-country partners to withdraw 
all such proposals and to actively support the efforts of 
small island developing States to increase benefits from 
the sustainable management of fisheries in their EEZs.
Allow  me  to  briefly  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for his proposals on the peace and security architecture, 
management reform and other reform processes for the 
Organization. We commend his proposals, which will 
result  in  a  more  transparent,  efficient  and  effective 
regime  that  is  able  to  respond  to  the  challenges  our 
world is facing today. The United Nations must be fit for 
purpose. While reforms are vital to any organization, 
they  must  not  disadvantage  small  island  developing 
States; they must leave no one behind.
For  many  years  now,  my  country  has  also  paid 
priority  attention  to  the  efforts  by  Member  States  to 
reform  the  Security  Council,  but  those  efforts  have 
resulted in little progress. We need to break out of this 
cycle. It is high time to shift to real negotiations.
In  the  Western  Pacific,  and  especially  in  our 
greater  Micronesian  region, 
the  provocative  and 
aggressive actions by the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea pose a threat to regional security and must be 
condemned in the strongest possible terms. Micronesia 
supports the actions taken by the Security Council. We 
call  on  the  Council  and  on  countries  with  the  power 
and influence to help resolve the crisis to take action 
immediately  to  ensure  that  peace  is  achieved  on  the 
Korean peninsula.
We  gather  in  this  great  Hall  and  debate  among 
nations,  but  we  are  speaking  for  our  peoples.  We 
are  trying  to  advance  their  interests.  We  are  seeking 
to  improve  their  lives.  As  history  has  taught  us,  we 
will  fail  our  nations  and  our  peoples  unless  we  work 
together  for  the  common  good.  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development constitutes a people-centred 
approach.  Consistent  with  that  principle,  the  theme 
of  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”.  We  must  believe  in  such  a 
future  and  move  towards  it  together.  Multilateralism 
and the United Nations are more important than ever. 
Only together can we restore and maintain peace and 
security. Only together can we overcome the threat of 
global  climate  change.  Only  together  can  we  build  a 
sustainable future for our planet and all of our peoples.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the  Federated 
States of Micronesia for the statement he has just made.
8/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
Mr.  Yosiwo  George,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Federated States of Micronesia, was escorted from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Sher  Bahadur  Deuba,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Nepal
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic 
Republic of Nepal.
Mr.  Sher  Bahadur  Deuba,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Sher  Bahadur  Deuba,  Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Deuba (Nepal): I bring to the General Assembly 
warm greetings from the people and the Government of 
Nepal, the land of Lord Buddha and Mount Everest, as 
well as best wishes for the success of this session.
I congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. 
I pledge my full support to you as you discharge your 
important responsibilities. I also wish to put on record 
our  appreciation  for  your  predecessor,  Ambassador 
Peter Thomson of Fiji, for his sterling leadership.
I  wish  to  warmly  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his  appointment  as  the 
Secretary-General. We extend to him our best wishes 
and  full  support,  including  for  his  efforts  aimed  at 
reforming the Organization to make it fit for purpose. 
I also commend his predecessor, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for 
his dynamic leadership of the Organization during his 
two terms of office.
the  Assembly  from 
It  has  been  more  than  two  decades  since  I  first 
addressed 
this  rostrum  (see 
A/50/PV.37).  In  the  decades  that  followed,  the  world 
witnessed a profound transformation. While there have 
been some notable achievements in poverty reduction, 
school  enrolment,  gender  equality  and  in  combating 
communicable diseases, those successes have not come 
without multiple and complex challenges. The world has 
become more interdependent and better connected, and 
growing interdependence and pluralism have unleashed 
both challenges and opportunities. A large geopolitical 
transformation is still in the making.
The  rise  of  inward-looking  tendencies  in  some 
nation States, marked by a tide of populism on both the 
left and the right, has created confusion in the course of 
world politics. The global community today is facing a 
more complex and polarized environment than before, 
with  multiple  transnational  challenges  ranging  from 
terrorism,  climate  change  and  energy  deficiency  to 
food insecurity, mass migration and extremism. Ethnic 
tensions and intra-State conflicts have taken their toll on 
millions of innocent lives, while the suffering of people 
in  Syria,  Iraq,  Libya  and  Yemen  continues  unabated. 
Unfortunately, our efforts to help have been too little 
and often too late. All of those challenges reinforce the 
role and responsibility of the United Nations.
As  we  embark  upon  the  path  of  implementing 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  those 
challenges  are  the  litmus  test  for  our  leadership. 
The  choice  of  the  theme  for  our  deliberations  at  this 
session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a  sustainable  planet”,  provides  a  clear  direction  to 
follow.  However,  the  path  to  peace  and  a  decent  life 
for  all  will  remain  elusive  without  the  resources  and 
commitment  needed  to  implement  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Delivering  on  commitments, 
making the process inclusive, coordinating efforts and 
shared responsibilities and backing up our efforts with 
adequate resources are all essential if we are to secure a 
sustainable future and ensure that no one is left behind.
The  vicious  race  to  acquire  weapons  of  mass 
destruction continues to threaten the world. Nepal calls 
for  time-bound  general  and  complete  disarmament. 
Nepal welcomes the confidence-building measures on 
conventional  weapons  that  ended  nearly  two  decades 
of  stalemate  in  the  United  Nations  Disarmament 
Commission.  Nepal  signed 
the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  as  a  step  towards 
nuclear disarmament.
the  Treaty  on 
Nepal  deplores  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea’s  continued  defiance  of  the  repeated  calls 
made  by  the  Security  Council  and  the  international 
community. We urge the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  abide  by  all  the  relevant  resolutions  of 
the  Security  Council.  We  believe  that  this  approach 
alone  will  safeguard  peace  and  promote  stability  on 
the  Korean  peninsula.  As  host  to  the  United  Nations 
Regional  Centre  for  Peace  and  Disarmament 
in 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  Nepal  emphasizes  the  need  to 
17-29801
9/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
reactivate  regional  disarmament  deliberations  under 
the Kathmandu process.
monitoring  the  human  rights  situation  in  the  country 
and investigating violations.
Terrorism  is  a  curse  on  humankind  and  today’s 
biggest  threat  to  democracy  and  development.  Nepal 
condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations 
everywhere in the world. The world must come together 
to  address  not  just  the  symptoms  of  terrorism  but 
also  its  root  causes.  An  early  conclusion  of  a  global 
anti-terrorism convention is the call of our times.
Nepal views the right to life as the most important 
of  all  human  rights.  Nepal’s  Constitution bans  the 
death  penalty  in  all  circumstances.  As  a  party  to  24 
international  human  rights 
including 
seven  out  of  nine  core  instruments,  Nepal  has  been 
fulfilling its international obligations with all sincerity 
and to the best of its ability.
instruments, 
Having contributed more than 130,000 peacekeepers 
to United Nations peacekeeping operations in some of 
the most challenging situations, we have shown a true 
commitment  to  the  success  of  such  operations.  Nepal 
is prepared to continue to provide troops and civilian 
personnel  for  this  noble  cause.  Nepal  hosts  a  world-
class  peacekeeping  training  centre,  the  oldest  in  the 
region.  The  United  Nations  can  make  the  best  use  of 
that facility by helping to develop it as a regional centre 
of excellence for peacekeeping training.
that  all 
troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries  should  be  given  a  fair 
opportunity  to  serve  in  leadership  positions,  both  in 
the field and at Headquarters, commensurate with their 
level and length of contribution.
Nepal 
firmly  believes 
The protection of civilians should be at the centre 
of  peacekeeping  operations.  Nepal  believes 
that 
protecting  the  safety  and  security  of  peacekeepers 
is  key  to  enhancing  their  ability  to  deliver  from  the 
highest possible moral ground.
On  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse,  we  must  move 
from zero tolerance to the zero-case scenario. It is in that 
spirit that Nepal endorsed the Kigali Principles on the 
Protection of Civilians in their entirety and signed the 
Secretary-General’s Voluntary Compact on Preventing 
and Addressing Sexual Exploitation and Abuse.
internationally 
The  Constitution  of  Nepal  accommodates  the 
aspirations  of  all  of  its  citizens.  It  guarantees  a 
comprehensive  set  of 
recognized 
human rights and fundamental freedoms. We are fully 
committed  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  those 
rights and to their being fully enjoyed by our people. 
The Constitution establishes powerful commissions to 
promote  and  protect  the  specific  rights  and  interests 
of  women,  Dalits,  Muslims,  Madhesis,  indigenous 
people  and  other  disadvantaged  communities.  The 
National  Human  Rights  Commission,  an  independent 
constitutional body, is responsible for comprehensively 
10/25 
Against  that  backdrop,  Nepal  has  presented  its 
candidature  for  membership  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  2018-2020  term.  Nepal’s  first-ever 
election  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  would  be  an 
acknowledgement of our long-standing commitment to, 
and contributions in, the field of human rights. It would 
also encourage us to do more at the national and global 
levels.  We  seek  the  invaluable  support  of  all  Member 
States for Nepal’s candidature.
Nepal  calls  for  concerted  efforts  at  the  national, 
regional  and  international  levels  to  ensure  that  the 
migration process creates a fair, win-win situation for 
all.  We  call  for  the  safety,  security,  dignity  and  well-
being of all migrant workers. Although not a party to 
the Convention and Protocol Relating to the Status of 
Refugees,  Nepal  has  earnestly  upheld  humanitarian 
principles by hosting thousands of refugees.
(United  Arab  Emirates), 
Mrs.  Nusseibeh 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Protecting  minorities  and  their  rights  makes  the 
world  more  humane  and  contributes  to  world  peace 
and stability. The forced eviction of citizens is a grave
crime  against  humanity.  We  call  on  the  international 
community to respond responsibly and act decisively in 
all circumstances in support of the right of refugees to 
return safely to their homelands with dignity and with 
the hope of rapid reintegration.
The cost in terms of human tragedy and devastation 
caused  by  natural  disasters  is  increasing  sharply.  We 
call for greater global cooperation and coordination in 
prevention, mitigation and recovery. The trauma of the 
2015  earthquake  in  Nepal  has  not  yet  subsided.  Post-
disaster  reconstruction  remains  ongoing.  We  thank 
our  neighbours,  development  partners,  other  friendly 
countries  and  the  United  Nations  family  for  their 
generous support in our drive to rebuild.
Poor 
and 
disproportionately 
suffer 
vulnerable 
from  climate  change  despite 
countries 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
their  negligible  greenhouse-gas  emissions.  The 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  should  be 
implemented in coordination with the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
The  least  developed  countries  represent  the  most 
vulnerable  group  of  countries.  They  must  not  be 
perennially  equated  with  dehumanizing  conditions  of 
poverty  and  underdevelopment.  Rather,  they  must  be 
empowered  to  smoothly  and  sustainably  graduate  to 
higher standards of living at an early date.
As  the  cost  of  trade  is  higher  for  landlocked 
developing  countries 
than  for  coastal  countries, 
developing  multimodal-transport  infrastructure  and 
providing  unhindered  transit  rights  to  landlocked 
nations  is  critical  to  their  sustainable  development. 
We  call  for  the  full  implementation  of  the  Istanbul 
Programme of Action, the Vienna Programme of Action 
and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda in order to benefit 
from the potential synergies, in coordination with the 
2030 Agenda.
foreign  policy 
The  essence  of  Nepal’s 
is 
Panchsheel — the five principles of peaceful coexistence 
that are derived from the teachings of Lord Buddha, the 
enlightened son of Nepal. Those principles serve as the 
foundations for managing harmonious relations among 
nations at a time of increasing uncertainty and turmoil. 
We  also  believe  in  non-alignment.  In  exercising  our 
independent foreign policy, we judge every issue on its 
merit without fear or favour.
We consider regional cooperation to be an important 
means of building trust and confidence among nations 
and  making  the  best  use  of  complementarities  for 
shared  prosperity.  Connectivity  remains  at  the  core 
of  deeper  integration  and  the  creation  of  win-win 
situations. Nepal firmly believes in the indispensability 
of the United Nations in multilateral affairs and global 
governance.  All  countries,  particularly  the  major 
Powers,  are  responsible  for  contributing  to  the  global 
good by fulfilling their obligations and responsibilities.
The reform of the Security Council is long overdue. 
The  underrepresentation  of  developing  countries  in 
the Council must be addressed in recognition of their 
growing  contributions  to  shaping  the  global  agenda. 
Reform  must  be 
in 
structure,  transparent  and  efficient  in  procedure  and 
accountable  and  effective  in  delivery.  The  Secretary-
General’s  reform  proposals  are  a  step  in  the  right 
direction. We believe a clear statement of support from 
inclusive  and  representative 
Member  States,  such  as  the  political  declaration  for 
United  Nations  reform  issued  earlier  this  week,  helps 
make the Organization more fit for purpose.
Any repositioning of the United Nations development 
agenda should address gaps, build synergy and improve 
accountability, while steering clear of the politicization 
of  development  under  any  guise.  Nepal  supports  the 
revitalization  exercise  in  the  General  Assembly  with 
a  view,  inter  alia,  to  more  streamlined  functions  and 
fairer gender and geographical representation in senior 
United Nations positions.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  share  some 
insights  into  recent  developments  in  Nepal.  Our 
peaceful  transition  to  democracy  after  a  decade-long 
armed  conflict  demonstrates  the  power  and  promise 
of dialogue and negotiation as compared to the perils 
of violent methods for obtaining political control. The 
national  peace  process  that  began  in  2006  concluded 
with  the  promulgation  of  a  democratic  and  inclusive 
Constitution  in  2015,  through  a  popularly  elected 
constituent Assembly. This unique peace process was 
home-grown  and  nationally  driven.  Its  successful 
conclusion  firmly  established  the  culture  of  dialogue 
and  accommodation  in  Nepal  and  could  serve  as  a 
model for similar situations elsewhere. We appreciate 
the  support  and  understanding  that  the  international 
community provided.
Proportional  representation  of  all  sectors  of  our 
society  is  at  the  core  of  Nepal’s  inclusive  democracy. 
Recent  local  elections  firmly  established  the  role  of 
women in politics and development. The Constitution 
guarantees that 40 per cent of representation at the local 
level and one third of representatives in the federal and 
provincial parliaments are women. After the successful 
holding of local elections, dates have been announced 
for  the  first  provincial  and  federal  parliamentary 
elections in 20 years, in two months’ time. The ongoing 
transitional justice process combines the reality on the 
ground with our international commitment to delivering 
justice and sustaining peace.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Nepal’s 
profound  commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  Organization  comprises 
large  and  small  nations,  and  the  vast  majority  of  its 
membership  comes  from  smaller  countries,  which 
confirms 
the 
world  body.  But  a  platform  for  a  peaceful,  stable, 
rules-based  and  just  world  order  cannot  be  erected 
the  universality  and 
legitimacy  of 
17-29801
11/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
without addressing our genuine concerns for security, 
development and well-being.
of Bougainville of the Independent State of Papua New 
Guinea, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
We believe that small nations have been sincere and 
serious in discharging their responsibilities as Members 
of the Organization. Even with their meagre economic 
and security resources, they have played a constructive 
role  in  it  to  promote  peace,  security  and  cooperation 
under  very  difficult  circumstances  in  many  parts  of 
the world.
I would like to recall the wise words of Bishweshwar 
Prasad  Koirala,  the  first  elected  Prime  Minister  of 
Nepal, who, in addressing the fifteenth session of the 
General Assembly, in 1960, said,
“Our physical strength may be negligible, but our 
moral strength, if we are true to ourselves and to 
the  peoples  for  whom  we  speak,  may  be  great” 
(A/PV.878, para. 228).
That  statement  is  as  relevant  today  as  it  was  then. 
Let  us  collectively  display  our  wisdom,  knowledge 
and  capacity  to  address  the  pressing  issues  of  peace, 
security,  disarmament  and  sustainable  development 
with due respect for the internationally accepted rules 
in order to ensure a safe and stable world order.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Sher  Bahadur  Deuba,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Peter  Paire  O’Neill,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  the  Autonomous 
Region of Bougainville of the Independent State 
of Papua New Guinea
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for  the  Autonomous  Region  of  Bougainville  of  the 
Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
Mr.  Peter  Paire  O’Neill,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for the Autonomous Region of Bougainville 
of  the  Independent  State  of  Papua  New  Guinea, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Paire  O’Neill, 
Prime Minister and Minister for the Autonomous Region 
Mr.  O’Neill  (Papua  New  Guinea):  On  behalf  of 
my Government and the people of Papua New Guinea, 
I  am  honoured  to  address  the  General  Assembly.  I 
am  pleased  to  convey  my  country’s  appreciation  to 
the  outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  His 
Excellency Ambassador Peter Thomson of Fiji, for his 
outstanding presidency this past year.
As  he  takes  up  his  mandate,  Papua  New  Guinea 
welcomes  and  congratulates  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák, 
and  the  Republic  of  Slovakia,  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. I pledge Papua New Guinea’s support 
for his presidency and the priority areas he has chosen.
I would also like to welcome and extend our best 
wishes for every success to His Excellency Mr. António 
Guterres,  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations, 
in  his  new,  vital  and  very  demanding  role.  It  is 
heartening  to  note  his  passion  and  drive  to  transform 
the  United  Nations.  The  Organization  can  better 
serve the international community if it becomes more 
accountable, transparent, inclusive and fair, and to that 
end  Mr.  Guterres  has  Papua  New  Guinea’s  strongest 
support. Let me also pay tribute to the former Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  outstanding  work 
during his tenure.
Our world continues to be confronted by multiple 
unprecedented challenges that are increasingly complex 
in nature. We are facing such serious adverse impacts 
as  an  uncertain  global  economy,  climate  change,  the 
declining health of our marine habitats and heightened 
security fears.
The  challenges  that  we  face  are  unlikely  to  be 
overcome,  or  major  goals  achieved,  by  individual 
countries acting on their own, which I am sure is a view 
shared by many. We must work together to build a better, 
more stable and equitable world for all our citizens. We 
all have to do more, and we must renew our faith in the 
promise  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
remains a beacon of hope for humankind.
Papua New Guinea recently held its tenth national 
elections. Our Government would like to put on record 
our  profound  appreciation  to  all  of  our  development 
partners, including the United Nations, for the valued 
support provided to us as the elections were conducted.
12/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
Since  being  returned  to  office,  our  Government 
has  pledged  to  further  increase  our  focus  on  the  core 
policies we have striven to implement during the past 
five  years.  Those  policies  are  changing  the  lives  of 
our 8 million men, women and children for the better. 
We  have  introduced  free  education  across  our  entire 
country and doubled the number of children in school, 
most  of  whom  are  girls.  We  are  extending  universal 
health  care  to  our  people,  which  is  helping  them  to 
live  longer  and  is  keeping  families  together.  We  have 
commenced the largest infrastructure programme in our 
nation’s history, building more roads, ports and public 
buildings, including hospitals. Our particular focus on 
infrastructure is promoting economic development and 
greater  opportunity,  especially  for  our  rural  majority. 
Those policies underpin our commitment to sustainable 
economic  growth  and  to  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
A nation such as Papua New Guinea can have all 
the best intentions and plans to continue to move our 
country  forward,  but  we  live  in  a  rapidly  globalizing 
world where events and influences transcend national 
borders. Many of the challenges that confront us today 
are  not  of  our  making;  rather,  we  have  to  bear  the 
consequences of actions taken by others and must take 
up the task of addressing them.
Global 
economic 
depressed 
commodity prices and political instability all continue 
to undermine growth in many developing countries.
uncertainty, 
Papua  New  Guinea  remains  concerned  at  the 
continuing  threats  of  violence  in  the  world  today,  be 
they by terrorist groups or the actions of rogue States.
We  condemn  in  the  strongest  possible  terms  the 
recent  nuclear  missile  tests  by  North  Korea.  They 
are  direct  threats  to  the  lives  of  millions  of  innocent 
people  in  the  United  States,  Japan,  South  Korea, 
and  more  particularly  in  our  Pacific  region.  We  are 
concerned that these activities are taking place in our 
backyard. They are in direct breach of the will of the 
international  community  as  expressed  through  the 
numerous relevant resolutions of the Security Council. 
Rather  than  inflamed  rhetoric  that  could  have  drastic 
consequences, we call for a peaceful resolution through 
political dialogue.
One  of  the  greatest  threats  to  humankind  comes 
from within our global community of nations. Climate 
change is real, and it is claiming lives and destroying 
communities. It is putting the future of nations at real 
risk.  The  recent  barrage  of  hurricanes  that  hit  the 
Caribbean and the United States is just another example 
of some of the extreme weather events that we are all 
confronting. Papua New Guinea offers its condolences 
to the countries affected and urges that the loss of life 
serve as another wake-up call for us all.
Papua New Guinea and other Pacific island nations 
remain  highly  vulnerable  to  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate  change,  including  extreme  tropical  storms, 
severe  droughts  and  seawater  flooding  many  coastal 
communities.  The  seeds  of  climate  change  that  we 
see  today  were  laid  by  developed  countries  over  past 
decades and centuries. Although their own development 
was  enhanced,  developing  countries  today  continue 
to  suffer  because  of  their  actions.  The  chances  for 
development in smaller countries have been harmed by 
the mess created by now-powerful nations. In Papua New 
Guinea and around the world, our peoples are dying as 
a consequence, living standards are being eroded, and 
opportunities are disappearing. The world needs to step 
up its action and respond effectively to climate-change 
challenges by making further commitments to reduce 
emissions and help affected communities.
to 
We  are  committed  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change  and 
implementing  domestic 
policies to reduce our own emissions. We welcome and 
support  Fiji’s  presidency  of  the  twenty-third  session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  will 
work together for a successful meeting in Bonn.
Papua  New  Guinea  is  an  island  nation.  The  very 
well-being  and  economic  development  of  our  people 
is  tied  to  the  resources  coming  from  our  oceans  and 
seas.  We  share  growing  concern  about  the  declining 
health of the oceans and seas that sustain many nations. 
Uncontrolled  and  poorly  regulated  human  activities, 
including illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing, 
pollutants,  plastics  and  marine  debris,  are  killing  our 
waterways.  Global  fish  stocks  are  being  decimated, 
ecosystems  are  being  destroyed,  and  our  people  are 
being forced to abandon their traditional homes because 
they no longer have jobs or food.
This is not a local problem; it is global in its scope 
and therefore needs greater global action. We do what 
we can at the local level. We in Papua New Guinea have 
established an integrated national oceans policy and a 
supporting  office  to  ensure  a  more  coherent  national 
approach  to  oceans  governance.  Our  commitment  to 
17-29801
13/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
SDG 14 is undiminished, as was demonstrated by our 
support  for  the  call-for-action  outcome  document  and 
the  voluntary  commitments  that  we  have  all  pledged. 
We are pleased with the historic outcome of the first-
ever  United  Nations  Ocean  Conference  held  four 
months  ago  in  the  General  Assembly  to  support  the 
implementation  of  SDG  14.  We  welcome  and  support 
the offer from Kenya and Portugal to be the next hosts 
of the United Nations Ocean Conference.
Another major problem and challenge that we face 
in  the  world  today  is  the  dislocation  of  people  from 
their  homes  and  communities.  Indeed,  we  are  facing 
a  refugee  crisis  in  the  world  today.  People  are  being 
pushed  out  of  their  homes  as  a  result  of  war,  natural 
disasters and the loss of livelihood. This is the plight 
of millions of people in developing countries who face 
dismal  futures  if  in  fact  they  succeed  in  surviving 
at  all.  The  responsibility  for  accommodating  these 
refugees — people who through no fault of their own 
are  forced  to  flee  —  lies  with  the  countries  whose 
actions that led to their displacement.
Today,  we  live  in  a  globalizing  world,  but  the 
privilege  to  travel  freely  is  held  by  only  a  lucky  few 
who  have  been  born  principally  in  developed  and 
industrialized  countries.  We  need  a  more  sensible 
and  humane  approach  to  achieving  mobility  for  all 
our people. We have only one planet, we all share that 
planet, and the people of that planet should be free to 
travel and settle when their home has been taken away 
from them.
We talk about greater freedoms for our people. We 
talk about freedom of speech, democracy, transparency, 
good governance and human rights, but talk is cheap. 
All  too  often,  the  concept  of  human  rights  is  a  mere 
theme of convenience. We need to make the migration 
process less complicated and more humane.
Papua  New  Guinea  fully  supports  reform  at  the 
United  Nations.  The  United  Nations  must  be  fit  for 
purpose.  It  must  keep  pace  with  the  environment  in 
a  rapidly  changing  world.  There  is  broad  agreement 
on  the  importance  of  United  Nations  reform,  but  the 
main  challenge  before  us  is  how  we  are  going  to  go 
about delivering it. We are heartened by the Secretary-
General’s passion and call for decisive and swift action 
on  his  reform  agenda,  including  in  terms  of  ensuring 
gender parity at the top levels of the Secretariat. He has 
our undivided support.
With  respect  to  the  Security  Council  reform 
process, it must advance the core interests of the vast 
majority of the States Members of the United Nations 
so as to make the Council more broadly representative, 
transparent, accountable, effective and efficient. Given 
its critical mandate, the Security Council needs to be 
more  efficient  in  its  response  to  contemporary  global 
challenges and circumstances.
In conclusion, the opportunities that lie before the 
global community are great, but they are also extremely 
challenging, particularly for countries with developing 
economies,  such  as  Papua  New  Guinea.  Regardless 
of  where  we  come  from,  however,  we  must  do  more. 
All  nations  —  large  or  small,  rich  or  poor,  weak  or 
strong  —  must  strengthen  their  resolve  and  work 
together. I thank all Member States for the achievements 
that we continue to make through the United Nations, 
and I pledge that Papua New Guinea will continue to 
work with them to achieve much more.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Papua  New  Guinea  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Peter Paire O’Neill, Prime Minister of Papua 
New Guinea, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Walid Al-Moualem, Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Expatriates of the Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr.  Al-Moualem  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I  would  like  to  begin  by  congratulating 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session 
and wish him every success. I would also like to thank 
his predecessor for the important role he played at the 
helm of the General Assembly during the seventy-first 
session.  I  congratulate  Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his 
appointment as Secretary-General and wish him all the 
best  in  carrying  out  his  responsibilities  in  service  of 
the purposes and principles of the United Nations as set 
forth in the Charter.
As we meet again, our world is facing challenges 
and dangers that are mounting on a daily basis. There is 
a persistent stand-off between two sets of forces — one 
that  strives  to  control  and  dominate  nations  and  their 
riches  by  seeking  to  turn  back  the  clock,  re-establish 
a  unipolar  world  order,  fuel  chaos  and  war  and 
14/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
international  humanitarian 
violate 
law,  and  one 
that,  in  opposition,  is  working  tirelessly  to  create  a 
more  balanced,  secure  and  just  world,  respecting  the 
sovereignty of States and the right of peoples to exercise 
self-determination and build their own future.
As  we  meet  again,  many  people  continue  to  pay 
dearly with their lives, losing the security, stability and 
livelihoods they once had, as a result of policies forced 
upon them by certain countries. These countries falsely 
believe that they can use terrorism as a tool to satisfy 
their  greed  and  further  ill-conceived  agendas  that  do 
not serve the interests of any people, let alone their own.
No people have suffered as greatly at the hands of 
terrorism as the Syrian people, who, for six years now, 
have fought against terrorism pouring in from all over 
the world, with the support of parties from across the 
region  and  beyond.  For  more  than  six  years,  Syrians 
have endured the worst conditions and made the greatest 
sacrifices in order to defend their country in a terrorist 
war of unprecedented brutality that has spared nothing 
and no one. It has targeted innocent people, services, 
infrastructure  and  cultural  heritage,  and  yet  Syria  is 
more determined than ever to eradicate terrorism from 
every part of the country without exception, relying on 
the selfless sacrifices of our army and the dedication of 
our people.
Since  the  beginning  of  the  war,  our  State  policy 
has followed two main tracks: combating terrorism and 
working  towards  a  political  solution  that  will  end  the 
bloodshed and restore stability. On the counter-terrorism 
front, the Syrian Arab Army, along with its supporting 
forces  and  allies,  is  making  daily  achievements  in 
clearing out terrorist-occupied territories and removing 
the terrorists themselves. Nevertheless, the threat of this 
plague persists as terrorists claim the lives of Syrians 
on a daily basis and deplete the country’s resources.
We  must  all  understand  that  terrorism  and  the 
underlying extremist takfiri ideology will continue to 
spread  like  a  tumour  throughout  the  world  and  haunt 
our  peoples  unless  every  one  of  us  demonstrates  a 
genuine will to cooperate and confront it together. Any 
such endeavour must respect the sovereignty of States 
and the interests of the people, and it must set aside the 
illusion that terrorism can be used as a tool for political 
gains and narrow interests.
the  local  level  would  not  have  been  possible  without 
the leadership, political support and numerous amnesty 
decrees  issued  by  President  Bashar  Al-Assad,  which 
allowed everyone who had taken up arms to lay them 
down and resume their normal lives. These successful 
acts  of  reconciliation  have  allowed  tens  of  thousands 
of internally displaced persons and refugees to return 
home  and  helped  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of 
a  great  number  of  Syrians  who  had  fallen  victim  to 
terrorist crimes.
Syria  is  determined  to  scale  up  its  reconciliation 
efforts  wherever  possible,  as  this  is  the  best  way  to 
alleviate the suffering of Syrians and restore stability 
and  normality.  Since  the  very  first  day,  the  Syrian 
Government  has  considered  all  initiatives  to  put  an 
end to the war with an open mind. However, all these 
initiatives eventually failed because States sponsoring 
terrorism persisted in their decision to pursue aggressive 
policies against Syria and its people.
With  regard  to  the  Astana  and  Geneva  tracks, 
the  Syrian  Government  has  shown  how  serious 
and  committed  it  is  by  doing  its  best  to  provide  the 
conditions  necessary  for  these  efforts  to  succeed  and 
for their goals to be achieved. We are encouraged by the 
Astana  process  and  the  resulting  de-escalation  zones, 
and  we  hope  that  it  will  help  us  to  achieve  an  actual 
cessation  of  hostilities  and  separate  terrorist  groups 
such as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), 
Jabhat al-Nusrah and others from the groups that have 
agreed  to  join  the  process.  This  will  be  the  real  test 
of  how  committed  and  serious  these  groups  and  their 
Turkish sponsors are.
So  far,  under  President  Erdoğan,  Turkey  has 
continued  to  pursue  its  aggressive  policies  against 
the Syrian people and laboured under the illusion that 
terrorism will help serve its subversive agendas in Syria 
and  other  countries  of  the  region.  Turkey’s  position 
stands in stark contrast to the positive and constructive 
role  played  by  Russia  and  Iran.  Notwithstanding  its 
commitment  to  the  memorandum  on  the  creation  of 
de-escalation areas in the Syrian Arab Republic, Syria 
reserves the right to respond to any violation by other 
parties. Syria also stresses that the de-escalation zones 
are a temporary arrangement that must not violate the 
territorial unity of Syria.
On  the  political  front,  since  the  early  months  of 
the crisis the Syrian Government has spared no effort 
to stop the bloodshed. The success of reconciliation at 
The Syrian Government reaffirms its commitment 
to the Geneva process and to making further progress 
on  this  track.  In  the  absence  of  a  genuine  national 
17-29801
15/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
opposition  that  could  be  a  partner  in  Syria’s  future 
and as countries with influence over the other parties 
continue to block meaningful progress, this process has 
yet to bear fruit. It is truly unfortunate that among the 
countries blocking a solution in Syria are members of 
this  international  Organization  and  even  permanent 
members of the Security Council.
The  Syrian  Government  has  always 
insisted 
that  any  solution  in  Syria  must  respect  the  country’s 
non-negotiable  principles,  its  red  line  for  all  Syrians. 
These  principles  include  the  complete  rejection  of 
terrorism, the unity of the territory and the people of 
Syria,  and  the  rejection  of  any  outside  interference 
in  political  decisions  involving  Syria’s  future.  Only 
Syrians have the right to make such decisions, whether 
now  or  in  future.  Absolutely  no  one  can  deprive  the 
free  Syrian  people  of  their  will  to  build  the  future  of 
their country.
For decades, Israel has continued its unscrupulous, 
thuggish  actions  with  full  impunity.  This  usurper 
entity  has  occupied  Arab  territories  in  Palestine  and 
the  Golan  for  more  than  70  years  and  has  committed 
horrific  crimes  against 
innocent  civilians.  Israel 
has  not  stopped  there;  it  has  publicly  interfered  in 
the  Syrian  crisis  since  its  earliest  days,  providing  all 
forms  of  support,  including  funds,  weapons,  materiel 
and  communications  equipment,  to  the  most  visible 
terrorist  gangs.  Israel  has  also  bombed  Syrian  army 
positions in service to terrorist agendas. Coordination 
between the Israel and the terrorists was at its highest 
point  when  terrorist  groups  decided  to  target  Syrian 
air-defence assets that are used to defend Syria against 
Israeli aggression.
The unlimited Israeli support provided to terrorists 
in Syria does not come as a surprise. After all, they share 
the same interests and goals. Let me be clear, however: 
it  is  delusional  to  believe  even  for  a  moment  that  the 
crisis in Syria will make us forget our inalienable right 
to fully recover the occupied Syrian Golan to the lines 
of 4 June 1967.
For  more  than  six  years,  the  States  and  parties 
that  were  behind  the  war  in  Syria  have  continued  to 
peddle lies and falsely accuse the Syrian Government 
of  using  chemical  weapons  despite  the  Organization 
for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons confirmation 
that Syria has fully eliminated its chemical programme. 
This  is  proof  enough  of  an  ill-conceived  intention  to 
tarnish the true image of the Syrian Government in the 
eyes of the international public and to come up with new 
excuses for continued aggression against Syria, which 
naturally  favours  the  terrorists  and  their  supporters. 
So it was when the United States blatantly attacked the 
Shayrat  air  base,  claiming  that  it  contained  chemical 
weapons  used  in  the  alleged  Khan  Shaykhun  attack. 
And, as we have done with regard to every accusation 
of this kind, we confirm our readiness to receive and 
cooperate with United Nations investigation teams.
Certain  countries  have  boasted  about  fighting 
terrorism in Syria and having the interests of Syrians 
at  heart.  They  have  established  coalitions  and  held 
dozens  of  conferences  under  deceptive  titles,  such  as 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Syrian  People.  It  is  quite 
ironic that these same countries are shedding the blood 
of  thousands  of  Syrians  through  their  support  for 
terrorists,  bombing  innocent  civilians  and  destroying 
their 
livelihoods.  The  so-called  Global  Coalition 
against  Da’esh,  created  three  years  ago,  allegedly  to 
fight terrorist groups such as ISIL, and led by the United 
States, has killed many more innocent Syrians, mostly 
women and children, than terrorists, and has destroyed 
vital infrastructure that Syrians had worked for years 
to build. It has also flagrantly used phosphorus bombs 
and other internationally prohibited weapons for all the 
world to see.
We cannot understand the silence of the international 
community in the face of these crimes. The international 
community  has  not  condemned  or  sought  to  stop 
these crimes even though the Syrian Government has 
repeatedly appealed to the Security Council to assume 
its  main  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security.  The  Syrian  Government  has 
urged the Council to implement its own resolutions on 
counter-terrorism, in particular resolution 2253 (2015), 
and prevent the Global Coalition from committing even 
more crimes against the citizens of my country.
While the Global Coalition has failed to make any 
meaningful  progress  against  the  terrorist  group  ISIL, 
the Syrian army, together with its allies and friends, has 
been able to secure real and significant gains and drive 
terrorists out of large parts of the Syrian desert. In what 
was considered a strategic achievement, the Army was 
recently able to break the siege inflicted by ISIL on the 
city of Deir ez-Zor and its people more than three years 
ago.  This  achievement  will  significantly  improve  the 
humanitarian situation in the city and contribute to the 
fight against terrorism in general.
16/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
We  have  declared  more  than  once  that  it  is 
impossible to fight terrorism without coordinating with 
the Syrian Government. It is the only way to make real 
gains in the war on terrorism. Any presence of foreign 
troops  on  Syrian  territory  without  the  consent  of  the 
Government is considered a form of occupation, wanton 
aggression and a flagrant violation of international law 
and the Charter of the United Nations.
The  war  that  the  most  powerful  countries  and 
terrorist  groups  are  waging  against  Syria  is  not 
just  a  military  war.  It  has  taken  other  forms,  no  less 
brutal  or  aggressive,  in  order  to  break  the  will  of  the 
Syrian people and punish them for their firm support 
of  the  Army  as  it  strives  to  defend  Syria’s  political 
independence  and  territorial  unity.  That  is  why  those 
countries  have  imposed  a  stifling  economic  blockade 
against Syria in blatant violation of international law, 
with a view to destroying the livelihoods of Syrians and 
increasing  their  suffering.  These  unilateral,  coercive 
measures  have  been  thrust  upon  vital  sectors,  most 
notably  health-care  services.  Syria  used  to  have  an 
advanced health-care system. However, today, Syrians 
are  denied  access  to  many  types  of  medicine,  even 
those needed to treat life-threatening conditions, such 
as  cancer.  Sanctions  such  as  these  are  a  clear  sign  of 
certain  countries’  hypocrisy  as  they  shed  tears  over 
the suffering of Syrians while in fact practicing a more 
surreptitious form of terrorism.
The  refugee  problem  is  one  of  the  consequences 
of  terrorism.  As  Syria  will  need  the  efforts  of  every 
Syrian in the near future, the Syrian Government has 
made their return to their homes a top priority. To this 
end, the Syrian Government has embarked on a mission 
to liberate and secure areas occupied by terrorists and 
improve the basic living conditions of all Syrians.
Given that the United Nations has failed to uphold 
its own Charter and the principles of international law, 
all of us must consider reforming the Organization so 
that it can play its role effectively and defend legitimate 
rights from the law of the jungle that some are trying 
to impose. Our nations are yearning for a safer, more 
secure,  stable  and  prosperous  world.  That  world  will 
remain a fantasy as long as certain countries maintain 
the belief that they can foment chaos and mayhem and 
force their will upon the world with full impunity.
With its resolute people, its courageous Army and 
the  support  of  its  loyal  allies,  my  country  is  steadily 
marching towards the goal of rooting out terrorism. The 
liberation of Aleppo and Palmyra, the lifting of the siege 
of  Deir  ez-Zor  and  the  eradication  of  terrorism  from 
many  parts  of  Syria  prove  that  victory  is  now  within 
reach. I am confident that, when the unjust war on Syria 
is  over,  the  Syrian  Army  will  go  down  in  history  as 
the  army  that  heroically  defeated  —  with  the  help  of 
supporting forces and allies — terrorists who came to 
Syria from many countries and received broad support 
in the form of weapons, funding, training, access and 
political  cover  from  the  most  powerful  countries  in 
the world.
Those  terrorists  have  tried  and  failed  to  impose 
their backward ideology on a peaceful nation that was 
once a cradle of civilization. For generations to come, 
history  books  will  recount  the  achievements  of  the 
Syrian people and their dedication as they countered a 
barbaric terrorist campaign and fought unfair measures 
designed  to  compound  their  suffering  and  deprive 
them  of  their  basic  requirements.  The  Syrian  people 
have stood their ground against all odds because they 
know that this war has been waged to eliminate their 
country and, with it, their very existence. Theirs is an 
example to follow for any people facing — today or in 
future — similar attempts to break their will and deny 
them their freedom and sovereignty.
Address  by  Mr.  Roosevelt  Skerrit,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance  and  Public 
Service of the Commonwealth of Dominica
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance and Public Service of the Commonwealth 
of Dominica.
Mr.  Roosevelt  Skerrit,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Public  Service  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Roosevelt Skerrit, Prime 
Minister and Minister for Finance and Public Service 
of the Commonwealth of Dominica, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Skerrit  (Dominica):  I  come  to  the  General 
Assembly  straight  from  the  front  line  of  the  war  on 
climate change. With physical and emotional difficulty, 
I have left my bleeding nation to be in this Hall today 
because  these  are  the  moments  for  which  the  United 
17-29801
17/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
Nations  exists.  It  is  why  we  have  always  collectively 
respected and held dear the values of this Organization.
We congratulate the President on his election and 
wish him well in upholding the ideals of humankind’s 
greatest invention. In keeping with the Organization’s 
regard  for  fraternity,  we  take  this  opportunity  to 
express our condolences to our brothers and sisters in 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Anguilla,  Cuba,  Saint  Martin, 
Saint  Thomas,  the  British  Virgin  Islands,  the  Turks 
and  Caicos  Islands,  Puerto  Rico  and  the  Dominican 
Republic, as well as to those who have suffered losses 
in  the  host  country,  the  United  States,  in  Texas  and 
Florida.  For  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Mexico,  we 
stand in prayerful solidarity following the catastrophic 
earthquake this past week.
Warmer air and sea temperatures have permanently 
altered  the  climate  between  the  tropics  of  Cancer 
and  Capricorn.  Heat  is  the  fuel  that  takes  ordinary 
storms  that  we  could  normally  master  in  our  sleep 
and supercharges them into a devastating force. In the 
past,  we  would  prepare  for  a  single  heavy  storm  per 
year. Now thousands of storms form on a breeze in the 
mid-Atlantic  and  line  up  to  pound  us  with  maximum 
force and fury.
Prior to this century, no other generation had seen 
more than one category 5 hurricane in its lifetime. This 
century,  it  has  already  happened  twice  and,  notably, 
these two events occurred in the space of the last two 
weeks. I should add that we are only midway into this 
year’s hurricane season. In the case of Dominica, it had 
been  only  two  years  since  we  lost  lives  and  endured 
substantial  physical  and  infrastructural  damage  from 
the  ravages  of  the  floods  and  mudslides  caused  by 
Tropical Storm Erika.
To  deny  climate  change  is  to  procrastinate  while 
the  Earth  founders.  It  is  to  deny  a  truth  that  we  have 
just lived. It is to mock the thousands of my compatriots 
who in a few hours will watch the night descend upon 
Dominica  without  a  roof  over  their  heads,  in  fear  of 
sudden mudslides or whatever else the next hurricane 
might bring. We as a country and a region did not start 
this war against nature. We did not provoke it. But the 
war has come to us.
There  is  no  more  time  for  conversation.  There  is 
little time left for action. While the big countries talk, 
the  small  island  nations  suffer.  We  need  action  and 
we  need  it  now.  We  in  the  Caribbean  do  not  produce 
greenhouse gases or sulphate aerosols. We do not pollute 
or overfish our oceans. We have made no contribution 
to global warming that can move the needle, yet we are 
among the main victims on the front line.
We in the Commonwealth of Dominica have long 
pursued and respected an existence that preserves our 
little Eden. The Morne Trois Pitons has been a national 
park for 40 years and a UNESCO World Heritage Site 
for 20. Our livelihoods are part of our ecosystem. That 
is  how  my  people  and  my  country  earn  and  survive. 
But  what  is  our  reality  at  this  moment?  It  is  pure 
devastation,  as  Dominicans  bear  the  brunt  of  climate 
change. I repeat — we are shouldering the consequences 
of the actions of others, actions that endanger our very 
existence and all for the enrichment of a few elsewhere.
We  dug  graves  today  in  Dominica.  We  buried 
loved ones yesterday, and I am sure that when I return 
home  tomorrow,  we  will  discover  additional  fatalities 
as  a  consequence  of  this  encounter.  Our  homes  are 
flattened,  our  buildings  roofless,  our  water  pipes 
smashed  and  our  road  infrastructure  destroyed.  Our 
hospital is without power and schools have disappeared 
beneath  the  rubble.  Our  crops  are  uprooted.  Where 
there was green, there is now only dust and dirt. The 
desolation is beyond imagination. The stars have fallen. 
Eden is broken.
The  nation  of  Dominica  has  come  to  the  General 
Assembly  to  declare  an  international  humanitarian 
emergency — one that is centred in Dominica but also 
encompasses  many  of  our  neighbours,  including  our 
sister isle, Antigua, which had to evacuate its citizens 
from  Barbuda.  Dominicans  have  been  responsible 
members of the global community. We have joined all 
of  the  major  international  battles,  from  the  abolition 
of forced labour to the protection of patents. Yet today 
72,000 Dominicans stand on the front line in a war they 
did  not  choose,  with  extensive  casualties  from  a  war 
they did not start.
The time has come for the international community 
to take a stand and decide whether it will be shoulder 
to  shoulder  with  those  suffering  the  ravages  of 
climate  change  worldwide,  whether  we  can  mitigate 
the  consequences  of  unprecedented  increases  in  sea 
temperatures and levels, whether it will help us rebuild 
sustainable livelihoods or whether it will merely show 
some  pity  right  now  and  afterwards  flee,  relieved  to 
know that this time it happened to someone else. Today, 
we, the small nations of the world, need to know who 
our  real  friends  are,  the  people  who  have  our  backs. 
18/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
Not  all  countries  are  sitting  as  inactive  bystanders. 
Some of our traditional friends are playing their part. 
The  United  Arab  Emirates,  for  example,  has  risen  to 
the  challenge.  We  commend  Sheik  Mohammed  Al 
Maktoum,  its  Prime  Minister,  for  his  announcement, 
in  this  year  of  Zayed,  that  his  country  will  boost  the 
theme  of  giving  by  “delivering  even  more  goodness 
to  all  parts  of  the  world”.  Today  we  invite  nations  of 
similar might to follow his lead.
The success of the twenty-first session of Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  held  in  Paris,  was  a 
demonstration of the collective political will of Member 
States in taking action to combat climate change. One 
year  on,  the  call  to  action  must  be  even  more  urgent 
if  we  are  to  curtail  the  impact  of  climate  change  on 
us  and  future  generations.  We  need  all  humankind, 
all  countries  —  big  and  small,  developed  and 
developing — to come together to save our planet. We 
must all live up to our obligations and commitments to 
do more. Inaction, and even inadequate action, destroys 
lives. The Green Climate Fund, which was created to 
help  put  mitigation  measures  in  place  and  assist  the 
victims of climate change, is commendable, but much 
more must be done to aid the countries that continue to 
bear the brunt of the impact of climate change.
The  World  Bank  established 
the  Caribbean 
Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility to assist countries 
that  have  been  affected  by  natural  disasters.  Though 
helpful,  the  amounts  are  usually  grossly  inadequate 
to  rebuild  infrastructure  and  maintain  the  gains  and 
progress made in economic and social development in 
the  wake  of  the  likes  of  Hurricanes  Maria  and  Irma, 
or even in the case of a tropical storm such as Erika, 
which  occurred  two  years  ago.  Substantially  more 
funds  must  therefore  be  made  available  to  vulnerable 
countries for loss and damage so they can mitigate the 
risks associated with future incidents.
The World Bank Facility must be recapitalized for 
greater coverage by using already committed funds from 
the Green Climate Fund. That will enable our countries 
to  focus  on  improving  people’s  lives  and  supporting 
the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
It will enable us to rebuild our nation — not as it was, 
but so that it is far more capable of meeting the realities 
of  rising  sea  levels  and  warmer  oceans.  Not  to  do  so 
would be to abandon those who have paid a steep price 
for what others elsewhere have created. It would be to 
let 72,000 Dominicans shoulder the world’s conscience 
on climate change on their own.
Today,  we  ask  members  not  to  express  their 
sympathies this week and then hope that our eyes do not 
meet  next  week.  Let  these  extraordinary  events  elicit 
extraordinary  efforts  to  rebuild  nations  sustainably. 
Let  them  unleash  the  innovation  and  creativity  of 
global  citizens  to  spark  a  new  paradigm  of  green 
economic development that stabilizes and reverses the 
consequences of human-induced global warming. Let it 
spark a thousand points of light, not shame. Let us take 
serious  action  against  the  realities  of  climate  change. 
I  promise  that  we  Dominicans  and  other  Caribbean 
citizens will play our part.
We  are  in  shock,  but  we  are  not  bowed.  We  cry, 
but we do not despair. We will rise because Dominican 
people  are  strong,  because  Caribbean  people  are 
resilient. We will rebuild our Garden of Eden again for 
our children and for future generations.
As  a  result  of  Tropical  Storm  Erika  in  2015,  we 
committed to creating a national vulnerability risk and 
resilience fund to improve our Government’s ability to 
respond to the impact of natural disasters. It has not yet 
been capitalized. We intended to transfer funds to it from 
our own treasury on an annual basis, but our capacity 
to earn has now been significantly compromised even 
before we have gotten it off the ground.
Today  we  need  all  the  things  required  after  a 
natural  disaster  that  has  affected  an  entire  nation. 
We need water, food and emergency shelter. We need 
roads, bridges and new infrastructure, but we also need 
delivery  capabilities.  I  call  on  those  with  substantial 
military capacities to lend us the rescue and rebuilding 
equipment that may be standing idle, waiting for a war. 
Let Dominica today be that war, because our landscape 
currently  resembles  a  war  zone.  The  battle  we  are  in 
has brought us to our knees. We need resources now so 
that we can move purposefully towards rebuilding our 
beautiful island home. We will need to rebuild homes 
and  villages.  We  will  need  to  rebuild  communities, 
schools, roads and bridges. We will need to rebuild a 
country, and we cannot do it alone. Above all else, we 
need the international community. We need its humanity 
and we need it now to act truly as our United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Public  Service  of  the 
17-29801
19/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
Commonwealth  of  Dominica  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Roosevelt  Skerrit,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Public  Service  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms.  Sushma  Swaraj,  Minister  for  External  Affairs  of 
the Republic of India.
Ms.  Swaraj  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Let  me 
begin  by  offering  my  heartiest  congratulations  to 
Foreign Minister Lajčák on assuming the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. For 
those of us fortunate enough to represent our nations as 
Foreign  Minister,  it  is  a  particularly  happy  event  that 
one of us has this honour.
I  addressed  the  Assembly  last  year  as  well  (see 
A/71/PV.22).  This  year  has  seen  much  change  both  in 
the  Assembly  and  the  world  it  represents.  We  have  a 
new  Secretary-General  at  the  United  Nations  who 
is  determined  to  prepare  and  strengthen  the  United 
Nations  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century. We welcome his efforts and see in him a leader 
who can give practical shape to a vision.
Our world today is trapped in a deluge of troubles 
of  which  the  most  dangerous  is  surely  the  relentless 
rise  of  violence.  The  evil  of  terrorism  and  the  ideas 
that  provoke  it  are  spreading  like  wildfire.  Climate 
change stares us in the face, and its threat is growing. 
Maritime  security  is  an  increasing  worry.  For  many 
compelling and terrible reasons, people are leaving the 
psychological, cultural and economic comfort of their 
homes to seek refuge on distant shores, giving rise to 
global  anxiety.  A  large  part  of  the  world’s  population 
still suffers from hunger and poverty. Young people are 
beginning to lose hope as they confront unemployment. 
Women,  historically  the  victims  of  discrimination, 
are  demanding  what  they  should  have  —  gender 
empowerment.  The  danger  of  nuclear  proliferation  is 
back  in  the  headlines.  Cybersecurity  has  become  a 
source of deep insecurity.
In  2015,  we  set  ourselves  the  target  date  of  2030 
for finding solutions to many of the challenges on our 
agenda. Two of those years have already passed. Surely 
it  is  already  time  to  ask  how  much  has  happened.  If 
complacency  ends  up  defining  the  next  13  years,  we 
will be in danger of losing control. We need a sense of 
urgency, as well as unshakable fortitude, if we are to take 
the decisions that can avert catastrophe. I am pleased 
that  India  has  displayed  the  courage  and  leadership 
needed  to  take  such  tough  decisions  and  launch  its 
interlinked process of sustainable development.
My  Government’s  most  important  priority  is  the 
complete  eradication  of  poverty,  and  there  are  two 
ways of addressing that curse. The traditional method 
is through incremental levels of aid and hand-holding, 
but our Prime Minister Narendra Modi has chosen the 
more  radical  route,  through  economic  empowerment. 
The poor are not helpless; we have merely denied them 
opportunity.  We  are  eliminating  poverty  by  investing 
in the poor. We are turning them from job-seekers into 
job-providers.  All  of  our  economic  programmes  have 
one main purpose — empowering the poor. Jan Dhan, 
Mudra, Ujjwala, Skill India, Digital India, Clean India, 
Start-Up India, Stand-Up India — describing them all 
would take more time than I have at my disposal. I shall 
therefore dwell only on three core programmes.
The Jan Dhan plan must surely count as the world’s 
largest financial inclusion scheme. Those who had no 
money were able to open bank accounts with no balance. 
No other country in the world has enabled even those 
with no money to have a bank account and passbook. 
That impossibility has now become possible in India. 
At least 300 million Indians — almost the equivalent 
of the population of the United States — who had never 
crossed the threshold of a bank now have bank accounts. 
That was, understandably, not easy to complete in three 
years, but our banks have achieved that visionary goal 
set by our Prime Minister. While some have still to be 
included, the target has been set. Every Indian family 
will have a bank account.
Mudra Yojana has enabled the Government to fund 
the unfunded. Today, through Mudra, people who had 
never  dreamt  that  bank  credit  could  be  an  option  for 
them are getting soft loans without collateral to begin 
micro-businesses.  I  am  particularly  pleased  to  be 
able  to  say  that  70  per  cent  of  those  loans  have  gone 
to  women.  Unemployment  spreads  despair.  Through 
Skill  India,  Start-Up  India  and  Stand-Up  India,  poor 
and middle-class youth are being trained to match their 
talents with bank credit and become self-employed as 
small-scale entrepreneurs.
Ujjwala  is  one  of  the  Government’s  signature 
schemes.  Poor  women  who  had  to  work  hard  in  the 
20/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
kitchen  were  sometimes  left  blinded  by  the  smoke 
from  their  stoves.  The  poor  are  being  provided  with 
free gas cylinders so that women do not have to suffer 
the  dangerous  consequences  of  wood-fired  kitchens. 
Uniquely,  gender  emancipation  is  at  the  creative  core 
of that programme.
the  black  money 
Demonetization  was  a  courageous  decision 
to  challenge 
that  disappeared 
from  circulation  and  was  one  of  the  by-products  of 
corruption. India has now also passed legislation for a 
goods  and  services  tax  under  which  there  is  one  tax 
throughout  the  country,  without  the  disorganized  and 
punishing  system  of  multiple  taxes  under  different 
categories  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  Our  Save 
the Girl, Educate the Girl campaign is reducing gender 
inequality.  Our  Clean  India  programme  is  generating 
what can only be described as a revolutionary change 
in social attitudes and habits.
At this point, I would like to note that nations with 
rising capabilities can generate these kinds of change, 
but the developed world must become an active partner 
in helping vulnerable countries that are still mired in 
stagnant poverty to reach the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) horizon by 2030. That is why the principle 
of global partnership was included in the SDGs. I am 
happy  to  report  that  this  year  India  has  launched  an 
India-United Nations Development Partnership Fund.
Regrettably, while we are fully engaged in fighting 
poverty, our neighbour Pakistan seems to be engaged 
only  in  fighting  us.  On  Thursday,  from  this  rostrum, 
Pakistan’s  Prime  Minister  Shahid  Khaqan  Abbasi 
wasted rather too much of his speech (see A/72/PV.14) 
complaining about us, accusing India of State-sponsored 
terrorism  and  violations  of  human  rights.  Those 
listening  had  only  one  comment  to  make  —  “Look 
who is talking.” The country that has been the world’s 
greatest  exporter  of  havoc,  death  and  inhumanity  has 
become  a  champion  of  hypocrisy  by  preaching  about 
humanity and human rights from this rostrum.
Pakistan’s Prime Minister claimed that his nation’s 
founder, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, bequeathed a foreign 
policy  based  on  peace  and  friendship.  I  would  like 
to  remind  him  that  while  it  remains  open  to  question 
whether Mr. Jinnah actually advocated such principles, 
what is beyond doubt is that from the moment India’s 
Prime  Minister  Modi  took  his  oath  of  office,  he 
has  extended  the  hand  of  peace  and  friendship,  and 
Pakistan’s  Prime  Minister  must  answer  why  his 
nation  has  spurned  that  offer.  Prime  Minister  Abbasi 
recalled  old  decisions  that  have  long  been  overtaken 
by  events,  but  his  memory  conveniently  failed  him 
where it matters. He has forgotten that under the Simla 
Agreement  and  the  Lahore  Declaration,  India  and 
Pakistan  resolved  to  settle  all  outstanding  disputes 
and  issues  bilaterally.  The  reality  is  that  Pakistan’s 
politicians  remember  everything  but  conveniently 
manipulate  those  memories.  They  are  masters  at 
forgetting facts that undermine their version of events.
Pakistan’s Prime Minister spoke of a comprehensive 
dialogue  between  our  two  countries.  I  would  like  to 
remind  him  that  on  9  December  2015,  when  I  was  in 
Islamabad for the Heart of Asia Ministerial Conference, 
a decision was made by his leader, Mian Nawaz Sharif, 
then  still  Prime  Minister,  to  renew  dialogue  between 
us  through  what  he  called  a  comprehensive  bilateral 
dialogue. The word “bilateral” was used consciously to 
remove any confusion or doubt about the fact that the 
proposed talks would be between our two nations and 
only our two nations, without any third party present. 
Mr.  Abbasi  must  answer  why  that  proposal  withered, 
because  Pakistan  is  responsible  for  aborting  that 
peace process.
I would just like to ask Pakistan’s politicians why it 
is that although India and Pakistan became free within 
hours  of  each  other,  today  India  is  recognized  as  an 
information-technology super-Power and Pakistan only 
as a pre-eminent exporter of terrorism? Have they ever 
thought about what the reason for that might be?
There  is  only  one  reason  for  it.  India  has  risen 
despite  being  the  principal  destination  for  Pakistan’s 
nefarious  export  of  terrorism.  There  have  been  many 
Governments under many parties during the 70 years 
of  Indian  freedom,  because  India  has  maintained  its 
democracy. Every Government has done its bit for India’s 
development.  We  have  marched  ahead  consistently, 
without  pause,  creating 
integrated  management 
systems, education and technology services and AIMS 
foundations in education, health, space and the entire 
range of human welfare. We have established scientific 
and technical institutions that are the pride of the world.
But  what  has  Pakistan  offered  the  world  or, 
indeed, its own people, apart from terrorism? We have 
produced  scholars,  doctors,  engineers  and  scientists. 
It  has  produced  terrorists  and  terrorist  camps  —
Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, 
Hizbul 
Mujahideen  and  the  Haqqani  Network.  What  has 
Jaish-e-Mohammed, 
17-29801
21/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
Pakistan created? It has created terrorists and jihadists. 
Doctors  save  people  from  death;  terrorists  send  them 
to their death. Pakistan’s terrorist organizations are not 
only attacking India, they are also affecting two of our 
neighbours, Afghanistan and Bangladesh.
In the history of the General Assembly, it may be 
a first that a country has asked for a right of reply in 
order  to  respond  to  the  statements  of  three  different 
countries.  Does  that  simple  fact  not  illustrate  the 
reality of Pakistan’s actions? If Pakistan had spent on 
development  what  it  has  spent  on  developing  terror, 
both it and the world would be safer and better off today.
Terrorism is at the very top of the list of problems 
to which the United Nations is searching for solutions. 
We are the oldest victim of this terrible, even traumatic 
terrorism.  When  we  first  began  pointing  to  this 
menace,  many  of  the  world’s  great  Powers  dismissed 
it as a law-and-order issue. Now they know better. The 
question is what we do about it. We must all look within 
ourselves and ask whether the action we are taking even 
approaches  the  level  of  our  talk  about  it.  In  bilateral 
and  multilateral  discussions  we  all  condemn  this  evil 
and piously declare our determination to fight it. The 
truth is that these statements have become rituals. The 
fact is that when we are required to fight and destroy 
this  enemy,  the  self-interest  of  some  makes  them 
duplicitous. That has been going on for years.
Although  India  had  proposed  a  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism as early as 1996, 
two  decades  later  the  United  Nations  has  not  been 
able to agree on a definition of terrorism. If we cannot 
agree on a definition of our enemy, how can we fight 
together? If we continue to differentiate between good 
terrorists and bad, how can we fight together? If even 
the  Security  Council  cannot  agree  on  the  listing  of 
terrorists, how can we fight together?
In all sincerity, I would like to ask the Assembly, 
through you, Madam, to stop seeing this evil with self-
defeating,  indeed  meaningless  nuance.  Evil  is  evil. 
Let us accept that terrorism is an existential danger to 
humankind. There is absolutely no justification for such 
barbaric violence. Let us display our new commitment 
by  reaching  an  agreement  on  a  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism this year.
I  have  identified  climate  change  as  one  of  the 
significant dangers to our existence. India has already 
said  that  it  is  deeply  committed  to  the  Paris  Climate 
Change Agreement. That is not because we are afraid 
of any Power, influenced by friend or foe or tempted by 
some imagined greed. It is an outcome of a philosophy 
that is at least 5,000 years old. Our Prime Minister has, 
on  his  personal  initiative,  launched  the  International 
Solar  Alliance  as  witness  to  our  abiding  commitment 
to this cause.
When we talk of world peace, we mean peace not 
only  among  human  beings  but  also  with  nature.  We 
understand that human nature is sometimes inimical to 
nature, but we would like to amend human nature when 
it tends in the wrong directions. When we inflict our 
greed on nature, nature sometimes explodes. We must 
learn to live with the imperatives, cycles and creative 
urges of nature. In that lies our own salvation.
We have just witnessed hurricanes and earthquakes, 
rains that inundate and storms that terrify. That is not 
mere coincidence. Through Hurricane Harvey, Nature 
sent  its  warning  to  the  world  even  before  the  world’s 
leaders  gathered  at  the  United  Nations  in  New  York. 
After our gathering had already begun, an earthquake 
struck  Mexico  and  a  hurricane  landed  in  Dominica. 
We  must  understand  that  this  requires  more  serious 
action,  not  more  talk.  The  countries  of  the  developed 
world must listen more carefully than others, because 
they have more capacities than others. The developed 
world must help the less fortunate through technology 
transfer and Green Climate Fund financing. That is the 
only way to safeguard future generations.
We have been discussing turmoil and change around 
the world, but the one Organization created to address 
world affairs is beset by its own problems. It seems to 
believe that there is no need for it to make changes in the 
precepts  and  perceptions  that  brought  about  its  birth. 
On  18  September,  I  participated  in  a  meeting  in  New 
York on United Nations reform and witnessed a clear 
desire for change and action. But I should also remind 
the Assembly that at the 2005 World Summit there was 
a  consensus  that  reforming  the  Security  Council  as 
soon as possible was an essential element of our overall 
effort to reform the United Nations. Efforts to conduct 
text-based  negotiations  on  reforming  and  expanding 
the  Security  Council  were  initiated  during  last  year’s 
session, and more than 160 nations expressed support 
for  them.  If  we  are  serious,  the  least  we  can  do  is  to 
produce one text that can be the basis for negotiation. I 
hope that under the enlightened leadership of the new 
President of the General Assembly this will become a 
priority. If it does, that will be a significant achievement.
22/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
We also have high expectations of the new Secretary-
General. If he wants to reform the Organization’s peace 
and security architecture, he will also have to address 
the reforms related to United Nations peacekeeping that 
have long been demanded. Without such improvements, 
it will be impossible for him to achieve that goal.
There  is  no  shortage  of  issues  and  problems  that 
should  be  acknowledged  from  this  rostrum.  But  time 
is  not  always  on  the  side  of  those  who  would  like  to 
raise  issues  and  problems  in  the  interests  of  a  better, 
more peaceful and progressive future. The issues that 
the President of the General Assembly has chosen are 
relevant  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  as  well 
as  to  the  ancient  traditions  of  my  land.  My  country’s 
culture  and  thought  have  been  shaped  by  a  history 
and philosophy that believes in peace as humankind’s 
only rational and practical objective. We truly believe 
that  the  world  is  one  family,  and  we  hope  that  every 
member of this family deserves that elixir of life that 
is happiness.
Let me end by reciting a verse that is a synthesis of 
our thought: “May all be happy; may all be healthy; may 
all see what is good; may all be free from suffering”.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Mahmoud Ali Youssouf, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Djibouti.
Mr.  Youssouf  (Djibouti)  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session.  I  would  like 
to take this opportunity to express the hope that under 
his  leadership,  the  General  Assembly  will  achieve 
its  objectives  and  to  assure  him  of  my  country’s  full 
support for his efforts.
I would also like to pay tribute to Mr. Peter Thomson, 
who preceded Mr. Lajčák in his position, and to reiterate 
our  warm  congratulations 
to  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres  on  his  well-deserved  appointment. 
We wish him every success as he discharges the lofty 
mandate that has been entrusted to him.
Notwithstanding 
its  major  progress  and  new 
opportunities,  the  world  continues  to  face  many 
challenges.  The  economic  and  financial  situation 
remains  a  source  of  concern,  and  the  security  front 
is  equally  worrying.  New  threats  are  emerging.  The 
nature  of  conflict  is  changing.  A  number  of  crises 
are  worsening  and  growing  ever  more  complex.  Even 
if  climate  change  sometimes  gives  rise  to  scientific 
controversy,  today  it  is  an  undeniable  reality  that  is 
producing one major catastrophe after another. I would 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  our  sympathy 
and  solidarity  with  the  communities  that  have  been 
recently  affected  in  the  United  States,  Mexico  and 
the Caribbean.
All  of  these  challenges  underscore  the  crucial 
importance of sustained and resolute collective action 
to  address  them.  We  must  mobilize  once  more  to 
revitalize multilateralism and stress the central role to 
be played in it the United Nations. The task is enormous 
and  the  responsibility  heavy.  Such  challenges  require 
ambitious  reforms  and 
increased  resources.  The 
reform  undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General  in  three 
key  areas  —  the  repositioning  of  the  United  Nations 
development system in the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  management 
reform,  and  the  reform  of  the  peace  and  security 
architecture — is a timely response to the need to make 
the Organization a tool that can more effectively realize 
its full potential for serving the people it was created 
to serve.
The 2030 Agenda is an ambitious programme both 
for  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  the  preservation 
of  the  planet.  In  addition,  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change, the Sendai Declaration and the Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  represent  an  array  of  tools 
for  strengthening  the  2030  Agenda.  It  also  calls  on 
countries to adopt policy frameworks in order to change 
their modes of production and consumption, as well as 
strategies to address climate change and disaster risk. 
With regard to the full and effective implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Djibouti 
would like to make a few comments.
First,  Africa  and  the  least  developed  countries 
should be treated as a priority. As the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development has pointed out 
in its analyses,
(spoke in English)
“[Africa 
the  battleground  where  [the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals]  will  be  won 
or lost”.
is] 
(spoke in French)
We must also mobilize large amounts of financing 
if we are to match these ambitions. To do that, we must 
17-29801
23/25
A/72/PV.19 
23/09/2017
adopt  innovative  financing  mechanisms  that  not  only 
guarantee increased foreign direct investment but also 
ensure that development aid commitments are kept. The 
necessity of that can be demonstrated by careful study of 
the pledges for financing the Millennium Development 
Goals, which were not fully honoured, and by the fact 
that the goal of 0.7 per cent as a portion of gross national 
income established for official development assistance 
has not been regularly paid. If it had, by now we would 
have mobilized $2.5 trillion. We should also emphasize 
the importance of an international trade system focused 
on the three Ps, that is,
(spoke in English)
poor-people-centred, 
planet-friendly.
(spoke in French)
productivity-enhancing 
and 
Lastly,  we  cannot  stress  strongly  enough  the 
importance of evaluation tools that make it possible to 
reliably measure progress. Through strong partnership 
and sustained effort, we can and must work to promote 
economic growth that is mindful of social justice and 
respects the environment.
The  absence  of  peace  is  the  major  obstacle  to 
economic  development.  The  human  cost  of  conflict 
is  enormous  and  brings  with 
it  massive  forced 
displacement,  famine,  the  spread  of  communicable 
diseases, acute food insecurity and a rapid deterioration 
in respect for human rights. Now more than ever, our 
Organization has an increased role to play in conflict 
prevention  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
emphasis  on  such  prevention  and  the  reforms  under 
way to restructure the peace and security architecture.
terrorist  groups 
perpetrating  acts  of  unprecedented  violence  poses 
a  new  challenge.  By  disseminating  an  ideology  of 
intolerance  and  hatred  that  calls  explicitly  for  the 
annihilation of others, they undermine the cohesion of 
our  societies  and  pose  a  threat  to  international  peace 
and  security  that  demands  that  we  coordinate  our 
efforts to combat terrorism.
The  emergence  of  extremist 
Djibouti welcomed the recent establishment of the 
Office  of  Counter-Terrorism  for  coordinating  United 
Nations action in the fight against terrorism and violent 
extremism. Djibouti also hosts the Centre of Excellence 
for  Preventing  and  Countering  Violent  Extremism 
of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development 
(IGAD), designed as a common platform for supporting 
the strengthening of national and regional coordination, 
producing analysis and ultimately formulating an action 
plan  aimed  at  countering  extremist  rhetoric  conveyed 
through social media.
I would now like to express our views on certain 
regional  and  international  situations  that  are  high  on 
the agenda for States Members of the United Nations.
Regarding  Somalia,  Djibouti  welcomes 
the 
recent  political  developments  in  the  country  and  the 
momentum  created  by  the  election  in  February  of 
President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed Farmajo and 
the formation of a new Government. We welcome the 
many  encouraging  steps  taken  to  strengthen  relations 
with Somalia’s federal member states and the strategy 
that has been implemented to promote tax and economic 
reforms  aimed  at  mobilizing  domestic  resources. 
However, we stress the importance of increasing support 
to Somalia by mobilizing adequate funding in support 
of its development programme. We remain concerned 
about the proposed cuts in funding to the African Union 
Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), despite the consensus 
on  that  African  peacekeeping  operation’s  success. 
Care  must  be  taken  to  ensure  that  the  improvements 
in the security situation are maintained. AMISOM has 
brought  the  Al-Shabaab  terrorists  to  their  knees  in  a 
bloody defeat.
With regard to South Sudan, we remain concerned 
by  the  slow  implementation  of  the  August  2015 
Agreement  on  the  Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan.  The  actors  involved  in  that 
protracted  crisis  must  acknowledge  that  there  can  be 
no military solution to the conflict. In that regard, we 
support  the  decision  of  the  thirty-first  Extraordinary 
Summit  of  IGAD  Heads  of  State  and  Government  on 
the situation in South Sudan, and reiterate the need for 
a  genuine,  transparent  and  credibly  inclusive  national 
dialogue  to  enable  lasting  peace  to  be  restored.  We 
also underline the important role played by the United 
Nations  Mission  in  South  Sudan  in  the  quest  for  a 
solution  to  the  crisis  there  and  urge  all  stakeholders 
to continue their efforts to implement their mandates, 
while  recognizing  the  importance  of  complementary 
and coordinated action.
Turning  to  Yemen,  Djibouti  continues  to  be 
extremely concerned by the triple tragedy the country 
is  experiencing,  as  United  Nations  officials  have 
emphasized  in  the  Security  Council  —  famine,  an 
24/25 
17-29801
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.19
unprecedented cholera epidemic and a serious political 
impasse hindering progress towards peace and security. 
We urge all parties to return to the negotiating table.
In  Palestine,  we  all  know  that  only  a  two-State 
solution  can  bring  peace  to  the  region.  The  suffering 
of  the  Palestinian  people  has  lasted  for  too  long  and 
must end.
Djibouti is also troubled by the fate of the Muslim 
Rohingya minority in Rakhine state in Myanmar. We 
are  gravely  concerned  about  the  military  brutality 
targeting civilian populations and the atrocities that we 
have  all  seen  in  the  press.  Despite  the  Government’s 
assurances, the crimes against the Rohingya community 
have not abated. We support the conclusions of the final 
report of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, 
led by former Secretary-General Kofi Annan, and call 
on  Myanmar  to  fully  implement  its  recommendations 
without further delay.
Djibouti  remains  alarmed  by  North  Korea’s 
belligerent  and  dangerously  provocative  attitude. 
Its  multiple  ballistic-missile  launch  tests  violate  the 
provisions of the relevant Security Council resolutions. 
Member States should monitor the situation vigilantly. 
We call on North Korea to engage in a constructive and 
result-oriented dialogue to find a satisfactory solution 
to the crisis.
Djibouti  is  still  awaiting  the  return  of  the  13 
members  of  its  military  who  have  been  detained  by 
Eritrea, a neighbour of ours whose belligerent policies 
towards  my  country  continue.  We  call  on  Eritrea  to 
accept  the  mediation  efforts  of  the  African  Union  in 
order  to  demarcate  its  Ras  Doumeira  and  Doumeira 
Island borders, begin to build trustworthy relationships 
with its neighbours and cease the hostile policies that 
are destabilizing the entire Horn of Africa.
I  wish  the  General  Assembly  every  success  in 
its work.
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
17-29801
25/25
