United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
13th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 September 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Skinner-Klée 
(Guatemala), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
Address by Mr. Salvador Sánchez Cerén, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Salvador 
Sánchez Cerén, President of the Republic of El Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Sánchez  Cerén  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Given  that  today  is  the  International  Day  of  Peace, 
it  is  an  honour  to  present  a  message  of  achievements 
and  challenges  from  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador  on 
the global agenda to General Assembly at its seventy-
second  session.  I  would  like  to  express  our  solidarity 
and condolences to the people and the Government of 
Mexico,  which  have  faced  a  devastating  earthquake. 
We  extend  the  same  message  of  sympathy  to  the 
Caribbean countries and the United States, which have 
been affected by hurricanes.
El  Salvador  identifies  with  the  central  theme  of 
this  debate  and  agrees  to  follow  up  on  such  a  vision 
for the fulfilment of Agenda 2030 and its Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). Agenda 2030 constitutes an 
important instrument for the dialogue and consensus-
building processes in El Salvador. We have contributed 
our  experiences  to  the  discussion  at  the  High-Level 
Political Forum on Sustainable Development, to which 
we submitted our first national voluntary review on the 
implementation of Agenda 2030.
El  Salvador  has  a  national  agenda  for  sustainable 
development, which was developed through the creation 
of an institutional architecture for its implementation. 
We have allocated more than half of public spending to 
education, health and social protection in order to reduce 
extreme  poverty  and  enhance  social  development. 
We  have  also  increased  the  allocation  of  resources  to 
programmes focused on poverty reduction.
In  the  area  of  education,  which  is  a  priority  for 
our  Government,  we  have  made  significant  progress 
in eradicating illiteracy and increasing the availability 
of  an  inclusive  education,  while  maintaining  a  high 
level of primary-education coverage over the past four 
years.  Also  noteworthy  are  our  advances  in  food  and 
nutritional  security,  through  which  we  have  reduced 
chronic child malnutrition. We promote family farming 
by supporting small producers, improving their incomes 
and  ensuring  food  security  through  participatory  and 
sustainable processes.
In order to address employment and opportunities 
we established the National Employment System, which 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29591 (E)
*1729591*
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
benefits young people through programmes that bolster 
their capacities for work, and we are firmly committed to 
generating a favourable climate for foreign investment. 
Our duty as a society is to continue our efforts to build 
upon such positive outcomes and continue on the path 
to  achieve  Agenda  2030.  It  is  important  to  point  out 
that we have great challenges before us, especially in 
the fiscal area, where agreements are urgently needed 
if  we  are  to  achieve  greater  dynamism  and  economic 
development that goes hand in hand with social progress 
and benefits for the people.
Such 
requires 
sustainable  development 
an 
environment of peace and security, and for that reason 
we have promoted a process of dialogue at the political 
and  multisectoral  levels.  It  was  out  of  that  process 
that we developed the Plan El Salvador Seguro. It has 
a  comprehensive  approach  aimed  at  addressing  the 
phenomenon  of  violence,  emphasizes  prevention  and 
firmly respects human rights. Two years after we began 
to  implement  it,  we  have  seen  good  results,  such  as 
reducing the homicide rate by 50 per cent and achieving 
a similar percentage with regard to extortion.
I  must  stress  that  without  a  financing  strategy, 
adapting Agenda 2030 to national planning becomes a 
complex exercise. That is why I reiterate the pressing 
need to link Agenda 2030 to the Addis Ababa Agenda 
for Action, which sets out more than 100 measures and 
practices aimed at generating investment that will drive 
sustainable development over the next 15 years.
In our case, we conceived a financing strategy that 
embraces all sources and calls for shared responsibilities 
with regard to achieving the SDGs at the national level. 
Against  that  backdrop,  we  recognize  that  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  seeks  to 
eradicate poverty and inequality, presents a challenge 
for middle-income countries, such as El Salvador. For 
nations  that  are  considered  to  fall  in  that  category,  it 
is  imperative  to  eliminate  measurements  based  solely 
on average income, or only on economic income, and 
that conceal economic, social and cultural inequalities. 
That is why we reaffirm the call to go beyond and move 
towards  the  implementation  of  a  multidimensional 
calculation.
It is equally relevant to refer to sovereign debt, given 
its  negative  impacts  on  development.  A  restructuring 
mechanism that promotes a fair and shared distribution 
between  debtors  and  creditors  based  on  human  needs 
is a priority. On the other hand, a crucial issue for El 
Salvador is the issue of migration. It is very important to 
bear in mind that in 2015, when we adopted Agenda 2030, 
we recognized the positive contribution of migrants on 
inclusive growth and sustainable development.
That is why my country promoted the inclusion of the 
migration issue in the SDGs, and we have prioritized it 
in our national agenda for sustainable development. We 
believe that achieving a global compact for safe, orderly 
and regular migration presents a true opportunity, but 
also a challenge. It is an opportunity that will enable us 
to tackle the issue of migration from a standpoint that 
ensures  human  development  and  human  rights,  and  a 
challenge that we must commit to addressing in order 
to eliminate stereotypes that stigmatize migration as a 
criminal act.
throughout 
Today,  as  anti-migration  policies  and  movements 
gather  strength 
the  world,  we  most 
energetically  condemn  xenophobia  directed  against 
refugees and migrants. My country therefore believes 
that it is vital to acknowledge the positive contributions 
and  participation  of  migrants  in  their  destination 
societies  and  their  positive  effect  on  sustainable 
development. One example of that contribution is our 
temporary  protected-status  population  in  the  United 
States,  for  whom  we  hope  that  such  status  will  be 
extended.
We should facilitate conditions that seek to regulate 
immigration status and promote the rights of migrants, 
as well as their integration into the host country culture 
and labour market, and their health care, education and 
housing  systems,  and  acknowledge  the  contribution 
that they make to the economies of their host societies. 
In  line  with  that  position,  we  have  submitted  an 
initiative to our Legislative Assembly to help regulate 
the  migratory  situation  of  nationals  who  come  from 
neighbouring countries to El Salvador, mostly for work. 
In  July  2017  we  launched  our  national  policy  for  the 
protection  and  development  of  Salvadoran  migrants 
and  their  families  as  a  tool  aimed  at  strengthening 
the  protection  and  promotion  of  the  development  of 
Salvadorans  abroad  and  of  their  relatives  at  home,  as 
well as the returning population.
In order to obtain a culture of peace at the global 
level,  it  is  essential  to  recognize  and  give  priority  to 
dialogue  and  peaceful  solutions  to  controversies.  As 
a  country  that  suffered  internal  armed  conflict  for 
over  a  decade  and  was  able  to  find  lasting  solutions 
only through dialogue and negotiation, we know very 
2/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
well  how  important  peaceful  means  are  for  resolving 
disputes.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  fresh 
efforts  for  dialogue  between  the  opposition  and  the 
Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 
We  congratulate  the  President  of  the  Dominican 
Republic, Danilo Medina, on that important initiative.
Furthermore,  I  call  for  an  end  to  the  economic 
blockade imposed by the United States on Cuba, so that 
we may begin a new chapter in our Caribbean history 
and  look  firmly  ahead  to  the  future.  We  hope  for  an 
advance in relations between those two neighbours and 
hope that other unilateral measures that hinder progress 
and the well-being of both peoples will be avoided.
My  country  firmly  supports  all  initiatives  that 
promote  and  strengthen  the  disarmament  regime, 
arms regulation and the fight against organized crime 
and  terrorism,  and  all  efforts  to  achieve  international 
security and world peace. I reiterate our concern in the 
face of the threat posed to humankind by the existence 
of  weapons  of  nuclear  destruction.  The  use  or  threat 
of  use  of  such  weapons  is  a  clear  violation  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations and of international and 
humanitarian law.
In another area, we must adopt urgent measures to 
combat  the  negative  effects  of  climate  change,  which 
continue 
to  compromise  economic  development, 
natural resources and the well-being of countries such 
as El Salvador, which produces few greenhouse gases. 
It  concerns  us  to  see  regression  in  the  international 
consensus  to  fight  the  negative  effects  of  climate 
change at the multilateral level.
I  wish  to  end  by  highlighting  that  the  peace 
agreements  that  we  signed  in  1992,  which  have  now 
reached their twenty-fifth birthday, taught us that the 
best victories are those won through the hard work and 
will of all parties. In that vein, I express my gratitude 
to the Secretary-General for the support and solidarity 
that he has provided us with in the process of national 
dialogue that we are developing in El Salvador, which is 
now in its second stage towards reaching an agreement.
In that same spirit of joint work and cooperation, I 
call on Member States to unite in implementing the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, truly focusing on 
people, so that no one is left behind and all those living 
on this planet can do so in dignity and peace.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of El Salvador for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Salvador  Sánchez  Cerén,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  El  Salvador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Azali Assoumani, President of the 
Union of the Comoros
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Union of the Comoros.
Mr. Azali Assoumani, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Azali 
Assoumani, President of the Union of the Comoros, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Assoumani  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  an 
honour  to  once  again  address  the  General  Assembly. 
On this occasion, I would first like to join those who 
have spoken before me in this Hall to express the great 
compassion that the people and the Government of my 
country, the Union of the Comoros, feel for the people 
and the Government of the United States of America, 
the host country of the Assembly, in the aftermath of 
the hurricane that recently devastated Texas.
As an island State, I would also like to extend our 
greatest  sympathy  to  the  French  Government  and  the 
peoples and islands of the Caribbean for both the heavy 
loss  of  life  and  the  magnitude  of  material  damage 
wrought  by  Hurricane  Irma.  Those  repeated  natural 
catastrophes  are  a  resonating  call  to  climate  sceptics 
to  remind  them  that  now  is  the  time  for  commitment 
and  action  if  we  wish  to  mitigate,  as  far  as  possible, 
the causes of such devastating threats linked to global 
warming.
I  would  also  like  to  associate  the  voice  of  the 
Comoros with those who spoke earlier today to express 
our  deepest  condolences  and  full  solidarity  to  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Mexico  following  the 
violent  earthquake  that  recently  struck  the  heart  of 
Mexico, causing hundreds of deaths and disappearances, 
as well as tremendous damage.
17-29591
3/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
Allow me to commend the President on his election 
to  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second session and to voice true optimism for 
success in our work under his leadership as a seasoned 
statesman.  His  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Peter 
Thomson, also merits the admiration and gratitude of 
my delegation and all others for his remarkable energy 
in  accomplishing  his  mission  during  the  previous 
session.
institution,  we 
To Secretary-General Guterres and to all Members 
of  our  prestigious 
reiterate  our 
readiness  to  make  our  modest  contribution  towards 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)  and  the  upholding  of  peace  and  security,  for 
which  the  United  Nations  is  constantly  working  with 
selflessness and devotion. 
My country, the Union of the Comoros, on behalf of 
which I speak, appreciates the responsibility borne by 
the international community in the light of the gravity 
of the situation throughout the world and the concerns 
plaguing  people  in  many  countries.  I  would  therefore 
like to voice our commitment to the United Nations and 
commend  its  efforts  to  tackle  present-day  challenges 
and threats to peace, stability and collective prosperity. 
I welcome the relevance of the theme selected for this 
seventy-second session, which enables us to highlight 
the increasingly evident link between the environment, 
peace and security.
Here,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our  tribute  to  the 
Governments  of  France  and  Morocco  for  the  work 
accomplished  at  the  twenty-first  and  twenty-second 
sessions of the Conference of the Parties of the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
encouraging each of our countries, particularly island 
States, to give utmost priority to everything that has to 
do with the survival of our planet.
The general theme of our discussion today focuses 
on people, the striving for peace and a decent life for 
all  on  a  sustainable  planet,  and  it  incorporates  many 
issues  that  lie  at  the  heart  of  the  concerns  of  the 
international  community.  They  include  migration, 
preventive diplomacy, conflict prevention, sustainable 
development  and  United  Nations  reform.  Speaking 
about  the  human  being  also  implies  a  reference  to 
human  rights,  including  human  dignity,  which  are 
an  uppermost  priority  for  our  Organization.  Global 
warming,  migrations,  conflicts,  wars  and  terrorism 
are  all  challenges  that  all  continents,  and  Africa  in 
particular, are facing and require urgent responses.
represents 
the 
Terrorism,  which 
absolute 
repudiation of the human being, has become a scourge 
that we condemn and that we must fight mercilessly on 
a  global  scale  with  all  our  strength.  In  that  regard,  I 
call  for  the  rejection  of  the  dangerous  confusion  and 
unfortunate association between the terms “terrorism” 
and “Islam”. There is no Islamic terrorism, just as there 
is no Christian or Jewish terrorism. Terrorists belong to 
no faith. Terrorists are simply barbarians.
My  country,  the  Union  of  the  Comoros,  which  I 
have the honour to lead, is a country whose people are 
educated  in  the  practices  of  a  religion,  Islam,  which 
advocates love of one’s neighbour, tolerance and respect 
for human dignity. Those principles fly in the face of 
the cowardly, barbaric acts committed by groups acting 
faithlessly  and  lawlessly.  By  no  means  can  they  be 
associated with our religion.
We  vehemently  condemn  the  atrocities  targeting 
minorities and communities — yesterday, unfortunately, 
in Bosnia and Herzegovina against Muslims and today 
in Burma against the Rohingyas, as well as atrocities 
perpetrated  against  minorities  throughout  the  world. 
The  inhumane  and  savage  nature  of  such  attacks  is  a 
shock  to  our  conscience  as  we  see  attempts  at  ethnic 
cleansing  committed  against  the  poorest  segments 
of  society.  I  dare  hope  that  our  Organization  will  be 
able to uphold the most basic rights of the oppressed, 
regardless of origin, race, gender and creed.
What priority do we attach to the human being in 
the  face  of  such  ghastly  scenes  where  human  rights 
are trampled upon on a daily basis? The international 
community  must  absolutely  act  to  end  such  acts  and 
punish the perpetrators, at the risk of losing credibility 
before  the  people  whose  eyes  are  riveted  on  our 
institution,  which  has  the  right,  duty  and  ability  to 
provide them with protection, dignity and well-being.
It  is  by  guaranteeing  peace,  security  and  human 
rights  that  we  can  collectively  promote  the  SDGs, 
especially  for  a  decent  existence,  health  for  all, 
gender  equality  and  education  for  new  generations. 
Technological  possibilities  present  immense  potential 
for our young people.  Goal 7 of the SDGs is geared to 
ensuring  universal  access  to  reliable,  sustainable  and 
modern energy services at an affordable cost. The lack 
of  widespread  access  to  electricity  is  a  hindrance  to 
sustainable growth, particularly in Africa. 
4/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
In the Union of the Comoros, in one year, we managed 
to  end  the  electricity  shortages  and  constant  load-
shedding that had plagued our economy, our businesses 
and our homes, and to emerge from a protracted energy 
crisis.  However,  now  that  the  emergency  is  over,  we 
need to ensure that those results can be made long-term 
through  a  medium-  and  long-term  energy  policy  and 
through  the  development  of  renewable  energy  with  a 
low-carbon  footprint.  To  succeed  in  that  and  achieve 
the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, we must rely on 
ourselves  and  our  own  resources  above  all.  However, 
we need international solidarity, but also the solidarity 
of industrialists, bankers and international investors.
The Union of the Comoros has returned to political 
stability  after  witnessing  three  peaceful  transfers  of 
power at the highest State level over the past 15 years. 
Today, we are offering an incentive policy and support 
measures with a more attractive investment code.
My country, as a small island developing State, is 
subject to myriad risks. Nevertheless, my Government’s 
determination to work for the well-being of our people 
has prompted us to set a goal of making the Union of 
the  Comoros  an  emerging  country  by  2030.  There  is 
great  optimism  driving  us  forward,  and  we  hope  that 
indicators  will  soon  attest  to  our  progress  towards 
that  ambitious  and  lofty  goal.  The  main  thrusts  of 
our  Government  converge  on  the  achievement  of  that 
goal, which is underpinned by a national development 
strategy.
Furthermore,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  work  under 
way  to  endow  my  country  in  the  near  future  with 
adequate resources in terms of energy, road, port and 
airport  infrastructure,  economic  recovery  and  the 
establishment  of  a  framework  for  consultations.  That 
will bring the private and public sectors closer together 
and  will  afford  opportunities  for  civil  society  and 
political parties to fully play their roles.
For  that  reason,  at  the  initiative  of  the  elders  and 
leaders of our country, we have launched an inclusive 
dialogue among the various components and forces of 
the Comorian nation. There are plans to hold a national 
forum  in  December  to  take  stock  of  our  42  years  of 
independence. That is an inclusive, broadened national 
framework, one that includes all national life forces. Its 
mission is to assess the past, draw lessons from it and 
plan for a better future under better conditions.
I  have 
this 
participatory,  inclusive  and  representative  approach, 
therefore  unreservedly  embraced 
and the debates will lead to conclusions on everything 
that  will  strengthen  the  peace,  security,  calm  and 
stability  of  the  country  and  determine  its  future 
by  drawing  lessons  from  the  past.  In  order  for  that 
important  event  to  come  to  the  hoped-for  historic 
conclusions for the benefit of our people, I ask for the 
partnership and support of the international community 
and international and regional institutions, to which I 
would  like  to  reiterate  here  once  again  our  gratitude 
and our most sincere thanks for their unfailing support, 
especially when the Comoros almost sank into chaos 20 
years ago. It is with their invaluable assistance that the 
country has returned to the path of peace and stability.
The  displacement  of  populations  —  in  other 
words, migration — destabilizes both the countries of 
origin  and  the  host  countries.  However,  the  Union  of 
the  Comoros  refuses  to  allow  the  term  “immigrants” 
to  be  applied  to  Comorians  who  visit  the  Island  of 
Mayotte,  which  is  an  integral  part  of  its  territory, 
despite  the  fact  that  it  unfortunately  remains  under 
French  administration.  Indeed,  the  thousands  of  my 
compatriots who die each year in their attempts to go to 
Mayotte, a part of their territory, is not an immigration 
issue. The question of the Comorian Island of Mayotte 
relates to territorial integrity. Forty-two years after my 
country acceded to its international sovereignty, and in 
the absence of a solution to the issue since 1975, that 
question continues not only to weaken stability but also 
to hinder the country’s socioeconomic development.
I therefore welcome the continuation of the dialogue 
between my country and France in the quest for a just 
and equitable solution to the dispute over the Comorian 
Island of Mayotte, consistent with international law and 
respectful of the interests of each party. I pray to Allah 
the  Almighty  that  He  will  keep  us  alive  so  that  next 
year from this same rostrum I will be able to share with 
the Assembly the positive and consensual results of that 
dialogue.
France  is  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security 
Council.  Its  history  links  it  to  freedom,  democracy, 
justice, respect for international law and the promotion 
of  peace.  It  does  not  intend  to  divide  or  separate  a 
people. Its interest, like ours, lies in a world of stability 
and  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  Indian  Ocean  region 
looking towards a better future.
In  the  Near  East  and  the  Middle  East,  the 
international community must mobilize further to end 
the  martyrdom  of  the  thousands  of  children  crushed 
17-29591
5/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
under bombs, the hunger imposed on populations, the 
use  of  chemical  weapons,  the  chaos  and  the  partition 
processes 
in  countries  at  war.  The  international 
community must sanction the use of chemical weapons. 
We  must  act  to  ensure  that  hope  is  restored  for  the 
displaced and refugees and that the countries affected 
can recover their stability and territorial integrity.
With regard to the Middle East, the lack of a solution 
to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the current status 
quo  are  fuelling  insecurity  and  destabilization  in  the 
region. The solution to that conflict lies in stopping the 
unacceptable colonization of the Palestinian territories, 
the end of injustice and violence against the Palestinian 
populations  and  the  global  settlement  of  the  conflict, 
which is more than a half century old, on the basis of 
the two-State solution, which will fulfil the Palestinian 
people’s right to full sovereignty, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital.
Beyond  solidarity  speeches,  support  for  causes, 
the condemnation of attacks on friendly countries and 
peoples,  the  expressions  of  compassion  for  victims, 
and  the  calls  for  respect  for  the  right  of  peoples, 
the  sovereignty  of  States  and  the  integrity  of  their 
territories, we must show greater commitment. In any 
case, the Union of the Comoros believes in the United 
Nations  and  its  capacity  to  face  today’s  challenges. 
We  believe  that  such  an  Organization  is  possible.  We 
believe that we are able to build such a United Nations 
together.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  allow  me  to  take 
the opportunity of the coming of the Islamic New Year 
1439 to convey to the General Assembly my greetings 
and best wishes for peace, progress and prosperity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Union of the Comoros for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Azali Assoumani, President of the Union of the 
Comoros, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., 
President of the Republic of Palau
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Palau.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Tommy Esang 
Remengesau Jr., President of the Republic of Palau, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Remengesau:  I  would  like  first  to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on 
his election to lead our work in the General Assembly 
at its seventy-second session. I would also like to thank 
his Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson for his exceptional 
service during his recently completed term as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session.
At  the  outset,  the  people  of  Palau  extend  our 
deepest condolences to those who have had their lives 
devastated by the recent spate of hurricanes, typhoons, 
earthquakes and other natural disasters across Asia and 
the Americas. We must not forget that many do not have 
the  resources  necessary  to  rebuild.  The  international 
community  must  work  harder  to  ensure  that  they  are 
not  abandoned.  Such  record-breaking  storms  are  a 
harbinger of worse to come on a hotter planet.
Palau, in the Pacific, has experienced at first hand 
the  impact  of  climate  extremes.  For  us,  those  super-
storms are akin to ticking time bombs: no one knows 
when or where the next one will detonate, but we are 
keenly aware that they can wipe out years of progress 
in the span of hours.
The  President’s  clear  determination 
to  focus 
future efforts on conflict prevention, peace, migration 
and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable  planet  is 
certainly timely and well attuned to the realities of our 
generation. In fact, his attention to those very different 
yet  related  issues  demonstrates  a  clear  understanding 
of the complex times in which we live and the need to 
connect the dots between the causes and the effects of 
the interrelated challenges that we face.
In this modern world, we must continue to expand 
our cooperation at every level — private, public, not-
for-profit and political — within the context of a global 
network that establishes fair and transparent guidelines 
that  prescribe  how  to  act  and  react  to  those  dynamic 
topics. The only body that can fill that essential void is 
the United Nations.
6/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
With  respect 
to  sustainable  development,  we 
recognized,  in  2015,  through  the  adoption  of  the  17 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  that  a  global  rights-
based regime was necessary in the context of a global 
partnership, if we are to successfully eradicate poverty, 
address  universal  inequalities  and  provide  economic 
and  social  opportunities  to  all  for  the  peoples  of  the 
world.
Through the creation of Sustainable Development 
Goal  14,  we  finally  recognized  that  the  oceans  are  a 
resource  that  belong  to  and  serve  all  the  peoples  of 
the  world  and  must  be  protected  as  such.  By  coming 
together and finally agreeing on the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change, we established a global commitment 
to  begin  the  process  of  reducing  greenhouse  gases  to 
acceptable levels.
Yet  even  as  we  worked  hard  to  respond  to  that 
global  environmental  crisis  through  joint  actions,  we 
have  found  other  issues  of  security  and  peace  taking 
the forefront in our international conversation. As the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham (ISIS) is pushed back 
from its strongholds in Syria and Iraq, the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  firing  missiles 
and  detonating  atomic  and  possibly  hydrogen  bombs, 
thereby threatening worldwide peace and harmony. At 
the same time, migrants throughout the world are forced 
to  flee  their  countries  to  escape  the  ever-increasing 
levels of violence.
institutions 
strong  multinational 
Those  are  issues  that  must  be  dealt  with  globally 
through 
and 
partnerships.  If  those  efforts  are  to  be  successful 
within the framework of the United Nations, the United 
Nations must be strengthened so that all of its members 
can  believe  in  the  fairness  and  effectiveness  of  the 
overall international negotiation and dispute-resolution 
process.  These  are  the  issues  that  our  global  focus  is 
centred upon: a decent life for all and a sustainable planet.
I  believe  that  we  can  all  agree  that,  in  terms  of 
peace and security, inclusive sustainable development 
frequently  prevents  conflicts  and  sustains  peace. 
However, peace is not always achievable, and when that 
is  the  case,  the  United  Nations  must  facilitate  efforts 
to respond to aggression and violence. Palau therefore 
supports  all  efforts  and  United  Nations  resolutions 
aimed  at  bringing  North  Korea  to  the  negotiating 
table. The threat posed to the innocent people of Guam 
is  a  threat  to  us  in  Palau  and  the  entire  region.  Palau 
also  reaffirms  its  support  for  international  efforts 
to  eradicate  terrorist  organizations,  such  as  ISIS  and 
Al-Qaida. We must also support the Secretary-General’s 
efforts to revamp the United Nations architectures and 
procedures  for  peace  and  security  development  and 
management as a significant component of the overall 
reform of the Organization.
The Pacific small island developing States (SIDS) 
face a unique set of security and development challenges. 
However, the United Nations presence in the region is 
quite  limited.  In  shepherding  that  process,  I  urge  the 
Secretary-General  to  recall  the  guiding  principle  that 
was  so  successful  in  delivering  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development: leave no country behind.
Taking  into  account  the  recent  actions  by  North 
Korea,  we  must  take  seriously  the  long-term  need  to 
ban  nuclear  weapons.  A  good  place  to  start  would  be 
by acceding to the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons.  I  must  give  credit  to  the  leaders  of  my 
country, who, more than 30 years ago, recognized the 
threat of nuclear weapons and banned the use, testing 
and storage of nuclear weapons in Palau’s Constitution. 
In their honour, I signed that Treaty yesterday.
If  we  are  to  find  success  in  achieving  our  17 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  of  the  2030 
Agenda, we are going to have to face the hard reality 
that the costs are very significant. Success will require 
all  available  partnerships  and  the  development  of  the 
necessary  means  of  implementation  in  line  with  the 
2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and the 
SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action, known as the 
Samoa Pathway.
In  the  area  of  climate  change,  we  must  continue 
to  work  to  achieve  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  my  colleague  from  the  Pacific  His 
Excellency Prime Minister Frank Bainimarama of Fiji 
on  his  imminent  ascension  to  the  presidency  of  the 
upcoming twenty-third session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change. In order to strengthen his efforts, Palau 
is seeking the appointment of a Special Representative 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  climate  and  security. 
The  appointment  of  a  Special  Representative  would 
significantly  aid  us  in  our  preparations  to  confront 
that multifaceted challenge and would enhance United 
Nations reform proposals.
My  country,  although  small,  is  very  proud  of  its 
commitment to achieving our Global 2030 Agenda. To 
17-29591
7/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
help protect our oceans, we have established one of the 
largest protected areas in the world. Within that context, 
we  emphasize  our  support  for  a  new  implementing 
agreement on the conservation and sustainable use of 
biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. We 
have  also  supported  resolution  WCC-2016-Res-050, 
entitled “Increasing marine protected area coverage for 
effective  marine  biodiversity  conservation”,  adopted 
by the International Union for Conservation of Nature 
and Natural Resources in 2016, which promises to work 
towards  designating  and  effectively  setting  aside  at 
least  30  per  cent  of  coastal  States’  national  waters  as 
marine  protected  areas  by  2030.  In  addition,  we  have 
committed to addressing and taking action with regard 
to marine pollution in all its forms.
At  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Leaders  Meeting, 
Palau  also  called  on  other  countries  to  join  it  in 
becoming  parties  to  the  Agreement  on  Port  State 
Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal, 
Unreported and Unregulated Fishing, an international 
treaty that will help stop the transfer of illegally caught 
fish and marine life through our ports. I would like to 
make the same appeal here today.
In  our  work  to  save  our  oceans,  we  welcome  the 
appointment of His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson of 
Fiji as the first Special Envoy of the Secretary-General 
for  the  Oceans,  which  promises  to  bring  greater 
attention  to  one  of  our  most  urgent  priorities.  Palau 
extends its congratulations to its close friend from Fiji.
Those  types  of  commitment  require  the  strong 
support  of  a  broad  alliance  of  partners.  Fortunately, 
my country has a long history of strong partnerships. 
The  United  States  continues  to  support  Palau  in 
its  development  and  movement  towards  economic 
independence.  We  have  a  shared  history  and  over  the 
decades have become close friends. We recognize the 
unique  relationship  that  we  share.  In  these  difficult 
times, we support and participate in the efforts of the 
United  States,  on  behalf  of  the  world  community,  to 
combat  terrorism,  bring  closure  to  the  hostilities  in 
Syria  and  reduce  the  nuclear  threat  emanating  from 
North  Korea.  We  also  thank  the  United  States  for 
its  ongoing  support  for  our  efforts  to  establish  our 
national marine sanctuary. We look forward this year to 
completing our compact of free association agreement 
with the United States, which will reflect that close and 
special relationship.
Palau  also  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  great 
friendship that it has with Japan and the very significant 
economic  support  that  we  have  received  from  that 
country  over  the  years.  We  continue  to  express  our 
support  for  the  expansion  and  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Japan’s  permanent  membership  on  the 
Security  Council.  We  wish  to  express  our  sincere 
thanks  for  the  Nippon  Foundation’s  generous  support 
to enhance partnership and collaboration in our marine 
surveillance  and  enforcement  efforts.  We  would 
also  like  to  recognize  the  very  broad  list  of  partners 
across  the  world  who  make  our  efforts  to  achieve  a 
sustainable  future  possible,  including  the  Republic  of 
China  on  Taiwan,  Australia,  New  Zealand,  Monaco, 
Italy,  the  Netherlands,  the  European  Union,  private 
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
civil society, among many others.
At  the  end  of  the  day,  our  success  will  depend 
upon  the  development  and  maintenance  of  genuine 
and durable partnerships at every level of society. The 
issues that we face are becoming increasingly severe, 
dangerous  and  global  in  scope.  They  cannot  be  dealt 
with at the national or regional level alone. At no time 
in the history of my country or, indeed, the history of 
the world has the need for a strong global partnership 
of countries, organizations and people, through a single 
binding assembly of nations been more important. The 
United Nations has the potential to reconcile our global 
issues if — and only if — its Members are willing to 
recognize those issues and take the necessary action to 
develop and implement appropriate solutions. 
My small country — despite its size — is willing 
to  act  in  concert  with  the  other  nations  of  this  great 
Organization to achieve a better life for our children, 
grandchildren and all future generations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Palau for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Tommy Esang Remengesau Jr., President of the 
Republic of Palau, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
8/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour 
to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo,  President  of 
the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Although  we  currently  live  in  a  world  of 
unrest  and  insecurity  that  is  being  scourged  by  an 
unprecedented global economic crisis, the Republic of 
Equatorial Guinea is participating rather optimistically 
in  the  political  and  diplomatic  open  debates  on  the 
items  on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second  session.  We  believe  that  the  topics 
selected  for  debate  encapsulate  the  concern  of  every 
nation to achieve the objectives that were proposed in 
San Francisco in 1945, so that we can achieve a world of 
peace, well-being and security for humankind. 
We  wish  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on 
his  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its seventy-second session. We believe that his wealth 
of  political  and  diplomatic  experience,  that  of  his 
Government and the experience of the other members 
of the Bureau will help to guide our fruitful discussions 
to build a better world. 
We  also  hope  that  the  work  of  this  session  will 
continue  on  from  the  previous  session’s  endeavours, 
during  which,  under  the  guidance  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson, the United Nations made a correct 
assessment  of  the  current  state  of  global  affairs. 
That further fuels our optimism that we can arrive at 
definitive  and  sustainable  solutions  for  the  complex 
problems affecting our planet. In that joint endeavour, 
the  work  of  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  António  Guterres,  has  been  highly  praiseworthy, 
which is evident from the selection of issues before us.
It  should  be  recalled  once  again  that  Chapter  I 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  enshrines  the 
intent  of  its  Member  States  to  build  a  world  of  peace 
and  well-being  for  humanity  by  encouraging  friendly 
relations and mutual respect for the independence and 
sovereignty of every nation. No Member State should 
consider itself exempt from that duty. We believe that 
all the Governments of the world, if one is politically 
honest,  are  working  for  the  welfare  of  their  nations, 
which  is  why  every  country  designs  programmes  to 
promote human rights, the democratization of society 
and  socioeconomic  development,  thus  ensuring  the 
well-being of their populations.
However, despite our optimism in this debate, we 
express  our  deep  concern  about  the  numerous  armed 
conflicts  and  the  sociopolitical  instability  that  are 
ruining the socioeconomic structure of States, precisely 
because of interventions in the internal affairs of other 
States, which is specifically condemned by the Charter 
of the United Nations. 
The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  is  greatly 
concerned,  because  major  wars  that  have  destroyed 
entire  nations  have  had  Member  States  as  powerful 
participating  actors.  Such  States  believe  that  armed 
force is the only way to bring about peace and resolve 
conflicts, while forgetting that war can never do that. 
Rather, it compounds and perpetuates conflicts, leading 
to  disorder, destruction, desolation and ruin. Military 
force should never be the recourse used by the United 
Nations  to  ensure  international  peace  and  security. 
The Assembly must remember that international peace 
and security can be ensured only when every country 
enjoys internal peace and each country’s fundamental 
and inalienable rights are respected.
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is fully aware 
of  and  grateful  for  the  support  and  confidence  of 
almost  all  Member  States  regarding  its  candidacy  as 
a non-permanent member of the Security Council. We 
wish to convey here our total rejection of the use of force 
as the only recourse available to the United Nations.
We are party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons. We condemn not only the use and 
manufacture  of  such  weapons  in  conflicts  between 
States,  but  also  their  possession  and  distribution. 
We  believe  that  the  terms  of  that  Treaty  are  still 
insufficient  —  they  should  include  the  destruction 
of  nuclear  weapons,  wherever  they  may  be.  Their 
possession by some States makes other States believe 
they have the right to possess them as well.
As a member of the Security Council, the Republic 
of Equatorial Guinea will cooperate with all States to 
ensure peace in the world, which should mean ensuring 
peace  in  each  country  and  protecting  its  political, 
economic, social and cultural rights.
There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the fact 
that, despite the commendable initiatives in the 1990s 
17-29591
9/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
to  combat  malnutrition,  hunger,  climate  change  and 
others, and despite the High-level Plenary Meeting of 
the General Assembly on the Millennium Development 
Goals held in 2010, after more than 20 years not much 
progress has been seen in those areas. On the contrary, 
there has been an increase in the number of people in 
the  world  who  go  hungry;  the  environment  continues 
to deteriorate, causing major disasters such as floods, 
earthquakes,  hurricanes,  tsunamis  and  the  deaths  of 
thousands of human beings and the destruction of the 
infrastructure needed for human existence. The United 
Nations is still very far from achieving the established 
goals for the well-being of humankind.
We take this opportunity to express the condolences 
and  solidarity  of  the  people  and  the  Government 
of  Equatorial  Guinea  to  the  nations  suffering  from 
disasters:  Mexico,  the  United  States,  the  countries  of 
the Caribbean and Sierra Leone, in Africa.
At the same time that we see those factors, we are 
also  witnessing  international  terrorism,  extremism, 
xenophobia,  human  trafficking,  emigration,  piracy, 
the  phenomenon  of  mercenaries,  major  epidemics, 
transborder  crimes  and  an  acute  economic  crisis  that 
is  currently  affecting  the  entire  world.  All  of  those 
phenomena  make  it  necessary  to  achieve  greater 
awareness among nations of the need to establish more 
direct cooperation among States and for all nations to 
undertake united, dynamic and coordinated action.
No  matter  how  powerful  a  country  may  be,  such 
events mean that we must all pay attention, because no 
State is exempt from the responsibilities resulting from 
the  overbearing  actions  taken  by  some  States  against 
others. We must therefore focus more on bringing about 
peace in the world and ensuring a healthy environment, 
eliminating nuclear weapons and combating terrorism 
and  piracy,  which  affect  all  countries.  No  country 
should act as a policeman who imposes on others the 
principles  of  good  governance,  to  which  we  all  have 
committed ourselves anyway.
We  want  a  world  with  a  spirit  that  is  equally 
participatory  and  egalitarian  for  women  and  men, 
and  for  nations  large  and  small.  We  want  a  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  that  enables  the  equitable 
participation of all continents and guarantees the rights 
of all nations. We want cooperation based on fairness. 
We want respect for the cultural principles and values 
that  ensure  the  existence  of  every  nation  throughout 
the  ages.  The  premise  here  is  that,  in  the  absence  of 
wars and the adverse phenomena we have mentioned, 
the world could move towards sustainable development, 
the achievement of the 2030 Agenda and Agenda 2063 
of the African Union.
The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  has  taken 
a  giant  step  forward  in  its  development,  such  that 
expectations  for  its  economic  emergence  have  been 
estimated to occur by 2020. Unfortunately, however, its 
strategy has had to be considerably modified because 
of the current economic crisis. That is what is currently 
being experienced in our country with regard to peace 
and development.
The threats to peace and stability that we have seen 
over recent years have been provoked from the outside, 
with attempts to occupy the country and acts of piracy 
and  terrorism  that  have  been  aimed  at  destabilizing 
the  peaceful  and  democratic  system  of  the  existing 
Government.  They  are  attempts  to  disturb  the  peace 
and  create  riots  for  the  benefit  of  fortune-hunting 
adventurers. That has resulted in unjust and gratuitous 
accusations  against  the  leaders  of  our  country  and 
others  in  the  subregion,  disparaging  the  legitimacy 
of  our  national  sovereignty,  and  even  ignoring  the 
decisions of international justice. All of that has been 
part  of  an  attempt  to  confuse  international  public 
opinion  about  the  reality  of  the  progress  achieved  by 
Equatorial  Guinea  in  order  to  justify,  as  always,  an 
intention to impose so-called humanitarian intervention 
in our country.
In  conclusion,  we  appeal  for  greater  global 
consensus to fight the phenomena impeding the progress 
and  well-being  of  humankind.  A  more  inclusive  and 
participatory  consensus  on  the  strategies  of  action  of 
the  United  Nations  and  other  international  economic 
organizations is needed. The United Nations must lead 
us forward with the idea of a globalized world engaged 
in united action that does not condemn or punish, but 
rather helps the most needy to overcome the challenges 
of development.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
10/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
Address by Mr. Evaristo do Espirito Santo 
Carvalho, President of the Democratic Republic of 
Sao Tome and Principe
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
Mr.  Evaristo  do  Espirito  Santo  Carvalho, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome and Principe, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Evaristo do 
Espirito  Santo  Carvalho,  President  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Carvalho (spoke in Portuguese; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great  honour 
and joy for me to speak before the General Assembly 
for  the  first  time  as  Head  of  State  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe.  The  elections  of 
2016, which brought me to power, once again illustrated 
unequivocally the level of democracy in Sao Tome and 
Principe and the regular functioning of its institutions.
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity 
to dedicate the first few words of my statement to His 
Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajcák, whom I congratulate 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, and to whom I 
convey our full support for his mandate and wishes for 
his great success. I would also like to congratulate the 
outgoing President, His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson, 
for the manner in which he conducted the work of the 
General Assembly at its previous session, that is to say, 
judiciously,  with  enthusiasm  and  unselfishness,  in  an 
international context that has posed serious challenges 
to our Organization.
take 
I  also 
this  opportunity,  before  such  a 
distinguished  audience,  to  congratulate  Secretary-
General António Guterres on his outstanding election. I 
am convinced that his political stature will undoubtedly 
enable him to lead the United Nations and address the 
multiple  global  challenges  involving  the  necessary 
reform  of  the  Organization,  including  the  Security 
Council,  and  efforts  to  promote  peace,  sustainable 
development and human rights.
Within 
the  context  of 
the  complex  global 
environment, the current challenges facing our peoples 
and  countries  are  forcing  us  to  delve  deeper  into  the 
guiding  spirit  that  undergirded  the  foundation  of  our 
Organization  as  the  ultimate  and  global  guarantor  in 
the  search  for  peaceful  and  lasting  solutions  that  are 
consensual and valid under international laws, so that 
we  might  reach  the  desired  goals  of  peace,  security, 
stability  and  progress  for  all  humankind.  As  such, 
we  can  take  advantage  of  this  unique  opportunity  to 
pursue our collective reflection aimed at strengthening 
the role of the Organization. To that end, it is therefore 
urgent to carry out essential reforms that correspond to 
the dynamics of today’s globalized world — that is, to 
enable  the  various  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations  to  act  swiftly,  effectively  and  in  accordance 
with to a process that was intended to be inclusive of all 
nations, as mandated under the Charter of the United 
Nations, signed on 26 June 1945 in San Francisco.
On  the  other  hand,  we  must  strengthen  our 
awareness  of  the  need  to  implement  mechanisms  that 
allow  for  greater  inclusion  in  decision-making  and 
strategic  planning,  which  are  the  guiding  principles 
of  international  financial  institutions,  namely,  the 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. We 
firmly believe that that is the only way for the economies 
of  the  developing  countries  to  integrate  more  swiftly 
into  the  global  development  process,  whose  benefits 
have not yet been fully reflected in our own countries, 
while allowing for the renewal and strengthening of the 
credibility of those institutions, which we consider to 
be of central importance to the functioning of the global 
financial system, and to support our economic growth 
efforts aimed at the social and human development of 
our populations.
The theme of this session of the General Assembly, 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”, fits perfectly with 
the  present  reality  in  which  we  live  and  corresponds 
to  the  challenges  we  face  in  search  of  a  better  world. 
Therefore, because the primary focus of any national, 
regional or international policy is to prioritize people and 
their yearning for a better life, as well as the continuous 
improvement of the mechanisms needed to meet those 
goals, the effort to achieve world peace is urgent and 
encompasses fundamental values that, we are certain, 
we  all  stand  for  and  strive  to  achieve.  The  serious 
conflicts  that  are  troubling  the  world  are  of  constant 
concern,  and  their  harmful  consequences  —  which 
17-29591
11/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
affect  the  well-being  of  humankind,  the  balance 
of  relations  among  our  nations  and  our  economic, 
social and human development — must be firmly and 
uncategorically eschewed by us all.
In our view, the divisions that we are now seeing 
are the consequence of a lack of sincere, comprehensive 
and thoughtful dialogue among all parties. We cannot 
allow  religious  fanaticism,  isolationism  and  populist 
rhetoric, which today are anachronisms — and I would 
even  add  selfish  —  to  prevent  us  from  accepting  and 
living with others’ differences or to continue to lead to 
such a degree of discord, thereby aggravating tensions 
and  cutting  short  many  lives,  including  those  of  our 
children, who, if they are well cared for, represent the 
real future of our planet.
In that regard, we call for dialogue that will stress 
the central mediating role of our Organization in order 
to ease tensions on the Korean peninsula.
It  is  also  necessary  to  stop  the  proliferation  of 
weapons in Syria, where people continue to live under 
the  threat  of  bomb  attacks  that  have  destroyed  the 
country and torn apart its social fabric while claiming 
many innocent lives. There is also a need to accelerate 
dialogue and the peace process in the Middle East, to 
which  we  once  again  make  a  firm  appeal  from  this 
rostrum  to  find  a  peaceful  and  negotiated  solution 
respecting  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
conduct their own destiny, thereby respecting the basic 
principles of the United Nations.
Similarly, there is an urgent need to find a solution 
at the negotiating table for the tensions in Ukraine, the 
issue  of  Western  Sahara  and  our  brother  country,  the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  which  we  greet  warmly, 
and express the wish that its institutions will soon be 
restored to their regular functions.
Although  the  recent  ministerial  meeting  of  the 
African initiative for peace and national reconciliation 
in  the  Central  African  Republic,  which  took  place  in 
the  Gabonese  Republic  on  17  July,  was  a  step  in  the 
right  direction,  we  have  followed  with  great  concern 
the  deterioration  of 
there, 
with  incalculable  humanitarian  consequences,  sadly 
pointing to a situation of genocide. We therefore appeal 
for  efforts  to  be  made  to  avoid  another  humanitarian 
disaster in that African country.
the  security  situation 
We  cannot  but  deplore  the  terrorist  acts  that 
lives 
to  claim  so  many 
unfortunately  continue 
throughout  the  world.  The  barbarity  and  disrespect 
for  the  precious  good  that  is  human  life,  committed 
through  those  indescribable,  appalling  and  inhumane 
acts, warrant our firmest and vehement condemnation. 
In  that  regard,  we  underline  the  atrocities  committed 
by  Boko  Haram,  among  others,  in  our  neighbouring 
and  sister  country  Nigeria,  which  destabilized  the 
entire  region  and  severely  slowed  the  implementation 
of  sustainable  development  policies.  Furthermore, 
they  have  an  undeniable  echo  in  the  deterioration  of 
security  in the Gulf of Guinea, where acts of maritime 
piracy and the illegal activities associated with it have 
plagued  our  region.  The  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome and Principe, a State that is peaceful, democratic 
and  open  to  dialogue,  will  always  stand  side  by  side 
with  its  regional  and  international  partners  in  all 
initiatives seeking to eradicate that phenomenon from 
our societies.
If,  as  the  theme  of  the  session  invokes,  we  truly 
want to create the conditions for people to lead decent 
lives, it is urgent to address the problem of migratory 
crises. Every day, we are confronted with the tragedies 
of  thousands  of  people  who,  as  they  seek  to  escape 
conflicts  and  the  miserable  conditions  that  affect 
their  countries,  risk  perishing  on  trips  in  precarious 
circumstances as they go in search of a better life. There 
should be no doubt that no one leaves their homeland or 
faces such dangers on a whim.
There  is  a  civic,  ethical  and  moral  responsibility 
to  welcome  those  people  and  provide  them  with  the 
indispensable  humanitarian  assistance  necessary,  but 
also  to  create  conditions  conducive  to  mitigating  the 
phenomenon  in  the  countries  of  origin.  That  involves 
the adoption of concerted policies for the reception of 
refugees  and  the  provision  of  support  to  countries  of 
origin with a view to fostering an environment of peace 
and  stability,  so  that  they  can  provide  the  conditions 
necessary for their people to take part in the life projects 
they choose.
We  also  underline  the  important  work  of  the 
Global  Forum  on  Migration  and  Development,  under 
the co-chairmanship of Germany and Morocco, which 
began  in  January  and  will  run  until  the  end  of  2018. 
This  shared  leadership  has  made  contributions  to  the 
United Nations Global Compact for Migration, which, 
we are convinced, will lead to the much-desired policy 
of  improved  global  migration  to  be  adopted  by  the 
international community in 2018.
12/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
We also welcome the recent French initiative that 
brought together a European-Africa joint mini-summit, 
held in Paris in late August, that sought to find ways 
to  overcome  Africa’s  significant  migratory  flow  to 
Europe, which has also transformed the Mediterranean 
Sea into a veritable cemetery.
I cannot fail to mention the Sustainable Development 
Goals, the priorities of which go directly to the core of 
what we have been expressing. If we achieve — as we 
believe it possible to do — the eradication of poverty 
and  hunger,  the  promotion  of  social  and  economic 
development, the protection of the rights of all, gender 
equality,  the  empowerment  of  women,  a  reversal  of 
climate  change,  access  to  quality  services  and  the 
provision of special attention to vulnerable groups, then 
we will see a positive evolution in the living conditions 
within our nations. Let us therefore all work to that end.
In that regard, we highlight the efforts of the African 
Union,  enshrined  in  the  guidelines  of  the  important 
and  ambitious  Agenda  2063.  Its 
implementation 
and  success  will  contribute  greatly  to  making  such 
objectives more easily reachable. It is without a doubt an 
inclusive document, based on the cultural specificities 
of  each  country,  which  consciously  demand  from  our 
Governments a very clear commitment to its success.
However  successful  we  may  be  in  achieving  the 
goals of peace, stability and progress on a world scale, 
none of it will make any sense if we do not know how to 
take care of our planet. Combating the phenomenon of 
climate change is perhaps the most complex objective 
requiring all humankind to participate. The success of 
this fight is perhaps the greatest legacy we can leave to 
future generations.
In  that  context,  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  is  a  historic,  broad-based  consensus  on  the 
challenges  we  face  in  that  area  and  the  financial  and 
technological  means  to  overcome  them.  However, 
the  measures  proposed  have  yet  to  be  implemented. 
Every day we further postpone the issue, the more our 
planet  suffers.  Increasingly  extreme  weather  events 
cause  irreparable  damage  to  our  ecosystem  and  life 
on Earth. I therefore appeal, without prejudice, for the 
the members of the Assembly to demonstrate political 
boldness,  in  the  understanding  that  each  should 
contribute  according  to  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibilities.
Sao Tome and Principe, a small island developing 
State,  has  spared  no  effort  in  that  regard,  and  I  want 
to  assure  those  present  of  our  firm  commitment  to 
being at the forefront of implementing climate-change 
mitigation  measures.  However,  I  note,  along  with 
many  other  speakers,  that  funding  for  such  measures 
lacks  the  support  of  the  international  community. 
Cooperation  agreements  should  be  established  with 
ambitious funding for climate issues and guarantees for 
the effective and efficient transfer of technology by the 
more developed countries.
As those present know, our economy is extremely 
vulnerable,  as  it  depends  on  official  development 
assistance to meet almost 90 per cent of its needs. In 
the  context  of  international  financial  containment,  it 
becomes  necessary  to  consider  and  design  alternative 
ways  of  addressing  that  complex  situation.  It  was 
with that in mind that the current Government of Sao 
Tome and Principe decided to implement an ambitious 
agenda  of  transformation  for  the  2030  horizon.  It  is 
fundamentally  aimed  at  changing  the  paradigm  of 
growth and economic and social development policies, 
with  a  strategic  focus  on  the  private  sector  of  our 
economy. The new strategic direction, as reflected in its 
guidelines, is in perfect harmony with the aspirations 
of  both  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the 
African Union Agenda 2063. We believe in its success 
and  have  the  necessary  ambition,  but  we  will  not  be 
able  to  achieve  it  without  the  strong  support  of  our 
traditional partners and the international community.
In that regard, I would like to remind the Assembly 
that,  based  on  the  recognition  of  the  One  China 
principle, the Government of the Democratic Republic 
of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  re-established  diplomatic 
ties with the People’s Republic of China late last year. 
We are certain that this decision will help to strengthen 
our strategic partnership, and we hope that China will 
accompany us on the difficult path to development that 
we have proposed with our transformation agenda 2030.
In addition, we support the development efforts of 
Cuba’s friendly population and wish to reiterate our call 
for  further  efforts  to  normalize  its  relations  with  the 
United States of America so that it will act as soon as 
possible to lift the embargo that for decades has been an 
obstacle to Cuba’s progress.
In  an  era  of  proliferating  technological  means  at 
the  disposal  of  humankind,  our  increasingly  attentive 
and  informed  societies  demand  a  renewed  effort  to 
accomplish  the  noble  mission  of  our  Organization. 
Let  us  therefore  seek  inspiration  in  its  founding 
17-29591
13/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
principles,  the  quest  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
conflicts,  humanitarian  support  for  all  those  in  need, 
the  promotion  of  inclusive  and  constructive  dialogue, 
the  protection  of  our  ecosystem  and  the  promotion 
and guarantee of human rights, which are vital for the 
harmonious development of our nations.
The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe 
will continue to fight for such ideals, joining forces and 
willpower for its materialization.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and 
Principe for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Evaristo  do  Espirito  Santo  Carvalho, 
President of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and  Principe,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Mr.  Shava 
the Chair.
(Zimbabwe),  Vice-President, 
took 
Address by Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Zimbabwe.
Mr.  Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Robert Mugabe, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
I  wish 
President  Mugabe: 
to  congratulate 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
I  also  thank  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Thomson,  for 
his  commitment  to  and  efforts  in  accelerating  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The  President  could  not  have  chosen  a  better  or 
more  relevant  theme  for  this  session,  given  the  times 
that we are living in, for the pursuit and maintenance of 
peace and the promotion of development, in solidarity, 
lie at the core of the mission of the United Nations and 
its  entire  system.  Since  the  signing  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  72  years  ago,  and  in  subsequent 
conventions, resolutions and declarations adopted over 
the  decades,  Member  States  have  sought  to  actualize 
the  unquenchable  human  hope  for  peace,  justice 
and progress.
However,  the  current  global  development  agenda 
differs in significant ways from all of those that preceded 
it.  It  is  ambitious,  revolutionary,  transformative  and 
universal,  and  it  encompasses  every  single  facet  of 
human  life.  For  its  success,  the  agenda  demands  a 
radical, unprecedented paradigm shift in every sphere 
of human life.
We cannot halt or reverse the continued destruction 
of our natural habitat or the rise in global atmospheric 
temperature  without  a  change 
in  contemporary 
production  and  consumption  patterns.  That  has  been 
confirmed  by  scientific  evidence.  We  cannot  halt 
or  reverse  the  persistent,  widening  gap  between  the 
rich  and  the  poor  among  our  nations  without  deeper 
international cooperation and a genuine reform of the 
existing inequitable international system. The current 
system  is  inherently  structured  to  enrich  a  few  and 
impoverish  the  many.  Therefore,  it  cannot  deliver  on 
a key aspiration, watchword and objective of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development — that of leaving 
no one behind.
For  us  in  Africa,  the  current  antiquated  system 
perpetuates a historic injustice — one that can never be 
justified today. The 2030 Agenda represents new wine, 
and we call for a new wineskin, lest we ruin the new 
wine. It is for that reason that I reiterate my country’s 
unflinching support for the African Common Position 
on  Security  Council  reform,  commonly  known  as  the 
Ezulwini Consensus.
The  overwhelming  majority  of  us  have  accepted 
that we need to reform the current system in order to 
improve, but not destroy it. Nonetheless, the negotiations 
and process intended to yield the accepted reforms are 
painstakingly  slow.  We  are  left  to  wonder,  justifiably 
so, whether those who enjoy and sometimes abuse the 
power and privileges of the current set-up are sincere 
interlocutors in those discussions.
It is axiomatic that we harvest what we sow, yet by 
some  strange  logic  we  expect  to  reap  peace  when  we 
invest and expend so much, in treasure and technology, 
in  war.  According  to  the  Stockholm  International 
Peace  Research  Institute,  global  military  expenditure 
in  2016  amounted  to  approximately  $1.6  trillion.  In 
the  same  year,  according  to  the  Organization  for 
14/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development,  overseas 
development  assistance  amounted  to  approximately 
$142.6  billion.  Those  mega  investments  in  ever  more 
lethal weapons and more sophisticated war machinery 
have not resulted in greater peace or security. Instead, 
we have witnessed heart-rending suffering and misery 
and increased mass movements of people fleeing wars 
and armed conflicts. That trend should be halted for the 
benefit of humankind.
We  believe  that  a  different  and  better  world 
is  possible.  In  proposing  and  inviting  us  to  focus 
on  prevention,  preventive  diplomacy,  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  conflicts,  peacebuilding  and  sustaining 
peace,  the  Secretary-General  is  pointing  us  in  that 
desirable  direction.  We  must  also  seriously  tackle 
the  multifaceted  and  complex  root  causes  of  conflict, 
including  enduring  poverty  and  deprivation,  unequal 
access  to  resources,  the  denial  of  the  right  to  self-
determination  of  peoples,  and  interference  in  the 
internal affairs of other States, among other causes.
the  right 
The  continued  denial  of 
to  self-
determination  to  the  peoples  of  Western  Sahara  and 
Palestine,  who  are  living  under  colonial  and  foreign 
occupation,  is  immoral  and  an  urgent  issue  for  those 
seeking  peace  and  security  in  our  time.  The  Security 
Council  has  assumed  its  responsibilities,  as  set  forth 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  adopted 
numerous resolutions. What remains is the enforcement 
and implementation of those resolutions.
We call on the Security Council to demonstrate its 
authority by ensuring the holding, without much further 
delay,  of  the  independence  referendum  in  Western 
Sahara. We expect the Security Council to work closely 
with the African Union — its proven partner for peace 
on  the  African  continent  —  in  that  effort.  The  ever-
deteriorating  situation  and  continued  suffering  of  the 
Palestinian people should spur the Security Council to 
renewed,  time-framed  efforts  to  bring  about  the  two-
State  solution  already  defined  in  numerous  General 
Assembly and Security Council resolutions.
Development and peace are conjoined and cannot 
be  separated.  My  country  has  embraced  the  2030 
Agenda as an integrated and comprehensive approach 
to address the myriad and complex national and global 
challenges, in solidarity and in cooperation with other 
stakeholders.  Zimbabwe  was  honoured  to  be  among 
some  other  40-plus  countries  that  participated  in 
the  voluntary  national  review  at  the  2017  high-level 
political forum in July.
We  were  and  still  are  pleased  to  share  with 
other  countries  our  experiences  and  to  learn  from 
others  about  their  experiences  in  implementing  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. We recognize the need 
for beneficial partnerships, both within and outside our 
national borders. One of our key partners is the United 
Nations  system,  with  which,  I  am  happy  to  note,  we 
work very closely. I wish in that regard to welcome the 
Secretary-General’s initiative to ensure that the support 
of  United  Nations  country  teams  will  be  guided  by 
national priorities. That will ensure national ownership 
and leadership of development processes, as well as the 
sustainability of development projects and programmes. 
That is what we are experiencing in Zimbabwe.
My country is an unflinching advocate of respect 
for the sovereignty and independence of countries. We 
therefore strongly defend and respect the right of each 
country  to  take  decisions  in  exercising  its  sovereign 
rights. We cannot, however, remain silent when those 
decisions  impact  or  have  the  potential  to  negatively 
affect our own welfare. And to that end, may I say that 
some of us were embarrassed, if not frightened by what 
appeared to be the return of the biblical giant Goliath.
Are we experiencing the return of a Goliath in our 
midst that threatens the extinction of all countries? May 
I say to the United States President, Mr. Trump, that he 
please blow his trumpet in a musical way towards the 
values  of  unity,  peace,  cooperation,  togetherness  and 
dialogue, for which we have always stood and that are 
enshrined  in  our  very  sacred  document,  the  Charter 
of the United Nations. Upon those values each nation, 
including the United States, can build its greatness. And 
it is the greatness in recognizing those values of unity, 
peace, cooperation, dialogue and togetherness that we 
would want to be guided by the United States, and not 
by the promise of our damnation. We shall always resist 
damnation, no matter whence it comes. We resisted it 
when it was in the form of imperialism as we fought for 
our  own  independence,  our  own  culture  and  our  own 
sovereignty, and to be masters of our own destiny. That 
is  why  we  call  ourselves  free  today.  It  is  because  the 
monster  of  imperialism  was  defeated  by  us.  Bring  us 
another monster, by whatever name, and it will suffer 
the same consequences.
Climate  change  is  a  present  reality  and  so  are  its 
effects  and  impacts.  Climate  change  is  global.  We 
17-29591
15/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
cannot  remain  silent  when  a  major  world  economic 
Power,  or  any  other  State  for  that  matter,  decides  to 
abandon  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change, 
as Mr.  Trump’s  great  United  States  has  done.  Let  us 
work  together.  Climate  change  is  a  reality.  It  is  vital 
that we all play our part, in keeping with the provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, in order to halt the inexorable march 
towards  the  destruction  of  that  on  which  our  own 
existence depends.
On  behalf  of  my  country,  I  want  to  express  our 
condolences to Puerto Rico and to countries that have 
suffered afflictions. There are many in this part of the 
world. We say that we are very sorry and we appeal to 
the rest of us, who have not suffered similar afflictions, 
to  assist  those  who  have  suffered  in  such  a  horrific 
manner.  I  ask  anyone  here  to  watch  television  today 
and  tell  me  whether  they  know  where  Puerto  Rico  is 
geographically. It has been completely wiped out by a 
hurricane. We are very sorry.
that 
today,  by 
the  world 
As  I  conclude  my  remarks,  it  is  worth  reminding 
one  another 
its  very 
interconnectedness, demands more, not less, solidarity; 
more,  not  less,  cooperation  and  dialogue;  more,  not 
less, multilateralism. We have brought more and more 
issues  under  the  global  agenda  and  within  global 
discourse. That acknowledgement has found expression 
in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and in 
the Sustainable Development Goals. Our survival and 
progress calls for reinforced solidarity, partnerships and 
cooperation and for development in unity, cooperation 
and peace. That is a call to which we must all respond 
positively and actively. Zimbabwe is already doing so.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Zimbabwe for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Robert  Gabriel  Mugabe,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Muhammad Jusuf Kalla, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Indonesia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Indonesia.
Mr. Muhammad Jusuf Kalla, Vice-President of the 
Republic of Indonesia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammad  Kalla, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Kalla  (Indonesia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
wishing  a  happy  new  year  to  those  who  celebrate  the 
Islamic New Year 1439 Hijri. May peace be upon us all.
I  would  also  like  to  extend  Indonesia’s  deep 
sympathy  with  and  condolences  to  those  affected  by 
the  recent  natural  disasters,  including  the  earthquake 
in  Mexico,  the  hurricanes  in  the  Caribbean  and  parts 
of  the  United  States,  as  well  as  floods  in  South  Asia 
and other parts of the world. Our prayers go out to all 
the victims.
May  I  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second  session.  Indonesia  is  committed  to 
contributing to his successful presidency. I would also 
like to thank His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson of Fiji 
for  his  able  stewardship  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-first  session.  We  commend 
his role in driving a universal push for the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
We are all represented on the same world map, yet 
we see many different worlds. Our world today is far 
from  equitable.  The  peoples  of  our  world  experience 
war, hunger, extreme poverty and illiteracy. Peace and 
equal prosperity are far from being reached. Therefore, 
Indonesia  welcomes  the  theme  of  this  year’s  session, 
“Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a decent life 
for all on a sustainable planet”. The theme recognizes 
the  importance  of  placing  the  needs  of  our  peoples 
first and highlights the fact that peace, prosperity, and 
sustainability are mutually reinforcing. In that context, 
I wish to underline three important points for achieving 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet.
First,  it  must  be  underlined  that  peace  is  never 
given; rather, it has to be developed and nurtured. We 
must work towards creating a global ecosystem of peace 
and stability. Indonesia’s experience in the Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  shows  that  building  such 
an  ecosystem  is  fundamental.  It  is  fundamental  for 
economic  development  and  fundamental  for 
the 
prosperity of the people.
16/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
Indonesia firmly believes that developing a global 
ecosystem  of  peace  and  stability  is  doable.  However, 
to  succeed  we  must  practice  the  habits  of  dialogue, 
inclusiveness,  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
and  the  non-use  of  force.  More  importantly,  we  must 
develop the United Nations as a robust global institution 
that  emphasizes  the  maintenance  of  peace,  security 
and  stability.  Key  to  that  is  ensuring  that  the  United 
Nations  reform  process  results  in  a  strong,  effective 
and relevant United Nations. It was for that reason that 
Indonesia  co-sponsored  the  declaration  of  support  for 
United Nations reform.
and 
Furthermore, we must also strengthen international 
peacekeeping 
peacebuilding  mechanisms. 
Indonesia  is  honoured  to  have  played  a  part  in 
mediating  conflicts,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
beyond our borders. We have been and will always be 
ready to be a part of a global solution. Over the past 60 
years, we have contributed more than 38,000 personnel 
to  28  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  We 
currently  deploy  more  than  2,700  peacekeepers  in 
nine  peacekeeping  missions.  We  are  also  determined 
to contribute 4,000 personnel by 2019 and increase the 
number of female peacekeepers.
Beyond  peacekeeping,  Indonesia  is  an  active 
member of the Peacebuilding Commission. We underline 
the need to ensure sustainable peace at the global level, 
which requires a global culture of prevention. It is also 
important  to  ensure  a  strong  partnership  among  the 
United Nations, the relevant regional organizations and 
national Governments.
A global ecosystem of peace and stability requires 
the international community to settle one of the longest-
standing unresolved conflicts — that of Palestine and 
Israel.  This  year  marks  half  a  century  of  the  illegal 
occupation of Palestine. We shall not give up. Palestine 
is  at  the  heart  of  Indonesian  foreign  policy,  and 
Indonesia  will  continue  to  support  it.  After  50  years 
of stalemate, we need a fresh approach — one that is 
sustainable and innovative and can bring about a two-
State solution.
We must not stop with the attainment of sustainable 
peace. A decent life for all people must be our global 
goal. That leads me to my second point. There must be 
synergies between sustaining peace and the development 
agenda. We must cultivate peace and stability to work 
for  us  in  achieving  sustainable  development.  The 
international system is well equipped to attain a decent 
life for all. A number of global commitments have been 
agreed,  including  the  SDGs  and  the  Paris  Agreement 
on Climate Change, to name but two.
However,  commitments  must  be  translated  into 
concrete  actions.  The  key  to  that  is  the  means  of 
implementation for the least developed and developing 
countries.  Adequate  funding,  technical  assistance, 
capacity-building  and  the  transfer  of  technology  are 
important elements for success. It is also important to 
support regions with huge potential that have undertaken 
great reforms towards sustainable development.
the  past 
Africa  is  one  such  region.  For  Indonesia,  South-
South and triangular cooperation is our way to support 
development  in  the  least  developed  and  developing 
countries.  Over 
three  years,  we  have 
organized 167 South-South and triangular cooperation 
programmes, from which more than 2,000 participants 
from  the  least  developed  and  developing  countries 
have benefited. Indonesia is also proud to host the first 
Indonesia-Africa Forum in April of 2018, which shows 
our  commitment  to  strengthening  a  partnership  with 
Africa towards achieving sustainable development.
Synergy  between  sustaining  peace  and 
the 
development  agenda  requires  a  society  that  is  just 
and  inclusive  and  fully  respects  human  rights.  There 
should  be  no  more  man-made  humanitarian  crises 
in  the  world.  Indonesia  shares  the  concern  of  the 
international  community  regarding  the  developments 
in  Rakhine  state.  We  have  proposed  a  4+1  formula 
to  the  Government  of  Myanmar,  placing  the  needs 
and  welfare  of  the  people  at  its  centre.  It  would  first 
require  restoring  stability  and  security.  Its  second 
tenet is restraint and non-violence. Third is to provide 
protection  to  all  people  in  Rakhine  state.  Fourth  is 
immediate access to humanitarian assistance. We also 
wish  to  implement  the  recommendations  of  the  team 
led by Kofi Annan.
That is why a people-centred Government must be 
at the heart of national development programmes. That 
is  why  Indonesia  continues  to  strengthen  democracy 
and  good  governance  at  all  levels.  Over  the  past  10 
years,  through  the  Bali  Democracy  Forum,  Indonesia 
has  also  shared  the  experiences  and  best  practices  of 
its democracy, working to strengthen democracy in its 
wider region.
Furthermore, development must not be achieved at 
the  expense  of  the  environment.  Despite  the  sceptics, 
climate change is real. It is happening as we speak. Like 
17-29591
17/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
many  small  island  developing  States,  Indonesia,  with 
more  than  17,000  islands,  is  experiencing  changing 
weather patterns and rising sea levels. That will affect 
the  sustainability  of  our  development  and  even  our 
survival. Indonesia is therefore fully committed to the 
Paris Agreement. We call on all countries to implement 
their obligations under the Agreement.
One of the greatest challenges to our global order 
and  development  agenda  is  the  threat  of  terrorism, 
radicalism  and  violent  extremism.  The  threat  is  real, 
imminent  and  ever-present.  Terrorism  undermines 
peace  and  disrupts  development.  Therefore,  my  third 
point  concerns  the  urgent  need  for  global  action  and 
partnership  in  combating  terrorism,  radicalism  and 
violent extremism. The key to tackling terrorism is to 
address its root causes: extreme poverty, illiteracy and 
massive youth unemployment. In most cases, radicalism 
and terrorism take hold of young, angry men, who think 
they have no hope because their country is destroyed, 
in  combination  with  authoritarian  Governments  and 
invasions of big countries.
In  Indonesia,  we  have  adopted  a  comprehensive 
approach  to  addressing  terrorism,  radicalism  and 
violent extremism in the form of a seamless combination 
of  using  hard  and  soft  powers  and  strengthening  law 
enforcement  and  the  rule  of  law.  At  the  same  time, 
we  are 
fostering  engagement  with  communities 
through  education,  empowerment  and  interfaith  and 
cultural  dialogue.  Indonesia  has  also  implemented  a 
comprehensive  programme  for  the  deradicalization 
and  reintegration  of  those  who  have  been  radicalized 
or gone to the dark side. We have deradicalized more 
than 1,600 extremists in over 72 prisons in Indonesia. 
In  this  digital  age  of  social  media,  terrorism  is  like 
cancer;  it  spreads  quickly  and  it  is  deadly.  No  one 
country can address it in isolation. Global cooperation 
and a comprehensive approach are the only panacea to 
eradicate the threat.
As  global  challenges  become  more  complex,  it  is 
evident that unilateralism is not a sustainable solution. 
The  world  needs  strong  partnership  —  a  true  global 
partnership.  Indonesia  has  long  believed  in  such 
partnership.  That  belief  stems  from  our  embedded 
national  slogan  “Bersatu  kita  teguh  bercerai  kita 
runtuh”, which translates as “united we stand, divided 
we  fall”.  Indonesia  has  always  desired  to  contribute 
to  global  partnership,  global  peace  and  security,  and 
global prosperity. Indonesia has presented its candidacy 
for non-permanent membership of the Security Council 
for the term 2019-2020. Indonesia is a true partner for 
world peace. We are counting on the support of those 
present for our candidacy.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Indonesia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Muhammad  Jusuf  Kalla,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Indonesia,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by His Royal Highness Crown Prince 
Al Hussein bin Abdullah II, Crown Prince of 
the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by His Royal Highness Crown Prince 
Al  Hussein  bin  Abdullah  II,  Crown  Prince  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Crown Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II, Crown 
Prince of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Royal  Highness  Crown  Prince 
Al  Hussein  bin  Abdullah  II,  Crown  Prince  of  the 
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Crown Prince Abdullah II: I am honoured today 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II 
and  the  people  of  Jordan.  I  bring  Jordan’s  sincere 
congratulations on the election of President Lajcák and 
our commitment to the work of the General Assembly. 
To Secretary-General Guterres, I extend my country’s 
great appreciation for his partnership with our people.
Two  years  ago,  I  had  the  chance  to  advocate  on 
behalf of my generation and to chair a delegation that 
participated in the work leading to the adoption of the 
first  Security  Council  resolution  on  youth.  Our  joint 
efforts resulted in the historic, unanimous adoption of 
resolution  2250  (2015),  on  youth,  peace  and  security, 
aimed  at  empowering  young  people  to  participate  in 
peace processes and dispute resolution.
Today,  I  stand  before  the  Assembly  not  only  as 
a  representative  of  my  beloved  Jordan,  but  also  as  a 
member  of  the  largest  generation  of  young  people  in 
history. Like every other generation, we have inherited 
the  collective  wisdom  and  values  of  our  elders. 
And  like  others  before  us,  we  must  often  struggle  to 
18/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
reconcile them with our reality today. What that reality 
is is unprecedented.
Ours  is  a  world  at  an  epic  intersection,  driven 
by  the  confluence  of  deepened  globalization  and 
disruptive technologies. We are at the brink of a fourth 
industrial revolution that is redefining how we function 
as societies and how we relate to one another as human 
beings. Our hyperconnected world is at once bringing 
people  closer  together  and  widening  the  divisions 
among them.
Amid all that, the young people of my generation 
are  asking:  what  are  the  values  that  anchor  global 
citizenship today? In which direction does our collective 
moral  compass  point,  and  can  it  guide  us  safely  to 
justice, prosperity and peace for all? Too often, people 
of my generation are labelled dreamers, yet we all know 
that every great deed was born a dream. We are often 
dismissed as idealists, but idealism is not foolish; it is 
fearless. It invigorates us to lift our reality to the level 
of our higher ideals, and not to compromise our ideals 
in the face of adversity.
Throughout 
So I humbly ask those present to indulge me as I 
try, on behalf of my generation, to sharpen the contours 
of our foggy terrain and put forward some rudimentary 
questions that are unfettered by the political decorum 
that  I  know  I  will  acquire  with  time.  I  will  use  my 
country, Jordan, as a launchpad for those thoughts and 
questions, as I believe they are a true embodiment of 
what is so right and yet so wrong with our world today.
its  history,  Jordan  has  suffered 
external shock after external shock, but the past couple 
of  decades  have  been  relentless.  We  are  currently 
bordered  by  a  number  of  conflicts.  Over  the  years, 
there  have  been  wars  in  Gaza,  Iraq,  Syria,  Libya  and 
Yemen, and there are worsening prospects for peace in 
the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. Jordan has also had to 
weather the global financial crisis and the energy crises.
All that has affected us in very real and felt ways. 
Our  largest  export  market,  Iraq,  was  completely  shut 
off. Trade with Syria came to a halt, and we lost critical 
trade routes from Europe and Turkey. Despite our best 
efforts,  regional  instability  has  undermined  tourism 
and investment. I do not know of any other country in 
recent history that has gone through such an onslaught 
of  crises  and  found  itself  surrounded  by  so  many 
conflicts through no fault of its own.
And  it  does  not  stop  there.  My  country  —  a 
resource-poor nation in a conflict-rich region — is host 
to 1.3 million Syrian refugees, in addition to millions 
of  Palestinian  refugees  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Iraqis, as well as others from Libya and Yemen. Jordan 
today  is  one  of  the  largest  hosts  of  refugees  in  the 
world. The direct cost of the Syria crisis now consumes 
more  than  a  quarter  of  our  budget.  Its  ripple  effects 
are  felt  across  local  communities,  where  90  per  cent 
of Syrian refugees live. Housing, food, energy, health 
care, education and jobs are all under pressure.
Yet in the face of those daunting challenges, we did 
not back down from our ideals or values. We did not turn 
our backs on people in need. We are weighed down by 
massive debt, yet we stand tall and proud. Our soldiers 
dodge  bullets  to  let  refugees  into  our  country,  not  to 
keep them out. Nor did we falter in our reform efforts, 
difficult as some of them have been on our people. On 
the contrary, the heavier our burden became, the more 
forcefully we forged ahead.
Please  do  not  misunderstand  me;  we  are  not 
perfect.  To  bring  down  unemployment  and  create  the 
jobs needed for youth and future generations, we need 
to drastically improve our investment climate; enhance 
integrity  and  accountability;  advance  our  education 
system;  and  support  young  entrepreneurs.  Ordinarily, 
assistance would be tied to our progress. But these are 
extraordinary times, and aid is a necessary runway if 
our political and economic reforms are to fully take off.
Difficult  circumstances  did  not  stop  Jordan  from 
being  a  net  contributor  to  global  good.  We  have 
remained  steadfast  in  our  commitment  to  a  just  and 
peaceful  resolution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
based  on  the  two-State  solution,  despite  prevailing 
scepticism.  We  have  staunchly  upheld  our  duty  as 
Hashemite  custodians  of  Muslim  and  Christian  holy 
sites in Jerusalem. Preserving the historical and legal 
status quo at Al-Aqsa Mosque/Haram al-Sharif is key 
to peace in our region and the world, as Jerusalem is the 
cradle of all three monotheistic religions.
We have been unwavering in the international war 
against terrorism and our promotion of the true values 
of  Islam.  Our  peacekeeping  troops  have  protected 
innocent civilians from Haiti to Darfur to East Timor; 
and  our  calls  for  inclusiveness  and  moderation  ring 
loud  in  a  region  too  often  deafened  by  division  and 
extremism. We have done the right thing, over and over 
again, because that is what real integrity means.
17-29591
19/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
But how has the world reacted? No doubt, Jordan 
is  regularly  praised  for  its  humanitarian  and  moral 
stance,  and  we  are  proud  of  our  country’s  reputation. 
But kind words do not balance budgets, build schools 
or  bolster  employment.  For  the  people  and  youth  of 
Jordan, important questions linger. How can it be that 
a country as small as ours struggles in the face of such 
crushing adversity, only to be told that its friends are 
suffering  from  donor  fatigue?  Financial  institutions 
often remind us that on a per capita basis, we are a top 
recipient of aid. Yet, on a per capita basis, few countries 
have endured as many external shocks or contributed to 
global peace and security as Jordan has.
How  can  it  be  that  a  country  like  Jordan  offers 
a  humble  home  to  millions  of  desperate  people, 
while  richer  countries  around  the  world  quibble  over 
accepting  thousands?  What  does  it  say  about  our 
common humanity when last year alone the world spent 
close to $1.7 trillion on arms, but fell short by less than 
$1.7  billion  in  fulfilling  the  United  Nations  appeal 
to  support  Syrian  refugees  and  host  communities  in 
countries like Jordan? What does it say when trillions 
are spent waging wars in our region, but little to take 
our region to safer shores?
There are no good answers. The sad reality is that 
war economies are thriving to the benefit of a few, while 
real economies are suffering to the detriment of all. The 
message to the youth of Jordan and our region is loud 
and  clear:  there  is  no  shortage  of  money  for  fighting 
evil,  but  the  appetite  for  rewarding  virtue  is  nearly 
non-existent;  that  the  voice  of  those  who  defend  and 
build is drowned out by those who attack and destroy. 
It just does not add up. So, what do we tell the people of 
Jordan? What does the international community tell our 
young majority? Do we tell them that the values we live 
by are of no value? That pragmatism beats principles? 
That  complacency  trumps  compassion?  Or  that  we 
should play it safe; turn our backs on people in need, 
because we cannot count on others to have our back?
The  United  Nations  is  our  global  conscience, 
but  for  too  many  in  my  country,  and  others  around 
the  world  trying  to  do  good,  it  sometimes  feels  like 
the world’s conscience is on silent mode. It is time to 
break  the  silence  and  start  finding  answers.  In  doing 
so,  we  can  unleash  a  global  current  that  carries  our 
common  humanity  to  safer  shores.  Our  commitment 
to  peace,  moderation  and  international  cooperation  is 
uncompromising. Water a thirsty fruit-bearing tree or 
continue to add fuel to a raging fire? The world has a 
choice to make.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Crown  Prince  of  the 
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  for  the  statement  he 
just made.
Crown Prince Al Hussein bin Abdullah II, Crown 
Prince of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime 
Minister of Tuvalu
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Tuvalu.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Enele Sosene Sopoaga, 
Prime Minister of Tuvalu, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Sopoaga (Tuvalu): Next week, on 1 October, 
Tuvalu  will  mark  the  thirty-ninth  anniversary  of  its 
independence.  It  gives  me  great  pleasure,  therefore, 
on behalf of the Government and people of Tuvalu, to 
thank  the  United  Nations  and  all  its  membership  for 
granting Tuvalu the recognition of full sovereignty in 
October 1978.
Twenty-two years later, on the eve of the twenty-
first century in September 2000, Tuvalu was admitted 
as  the  189th  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  with  the 
rights of full participation as a member of the United 
Nations  family.  Our  joining  the  United  Nations  is  a 
journey  of  hope  —  hope  in  the  noble  values  of  this 
great body, the United Nations, and trust in its ability 
to  assure  humankind,  including  small  and  vulnerable 
countries like mine, peace, security and prosperity for 
our survival.
I  record  Tuvalu’s  sincere  gratitude  to  the  United 
Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies,  development 
partners  —  especially  our  traditional  partners  in  the 
Pacific,  regional  bodies  of  the  Pacific  —  friends  in 
Asia, India, South Korea, Japan, the Republic of China, 
the European Union and others, for all their support to 
my island nation of Tuvalu. We welcome the friendship 
and partnership of United Nations Members and other 
entities as we move forward.
20/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
Tuvalu  applauds  the  theme  of  the  seventy-second 
general  debate,  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. 
It  captures  the  undeniable  linkage  between  peace, 
security  and  sustainable  development.  It  underscores 
that,  without  peace  and  security,  our  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  will  not  deliver  a  fair 
globalization  for  all.  In  short,  without  sustainable 
development, there will be no peace and no security.
I congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election 
to  the  presidency  and  on  his  vision  of  focusing  on 
people  during  the  seventy-second  session.  I  also 
congratulate  the  outgoing  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, Mr. Peter Thomson of Fiji, on his efforts and 
outstanding leadership on many fronts.
I want to express the deepest sympathy of Tuvalu, 
as a small and vulnerable island nation, to the people 
of  the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Caribbean 
islands who are suffering or have been affected by the 
destruction caused by the recent hurricanes and tropical 
cyclones in that region. These unfortunate events clearly 
show  the  magnitude  and  urgency  of  global  work  still 
required of the United Nations to better prepare, protect 
and save peoples and humanity from such calamities.
We also share the devastating grief of the people of 
Mexico, including young schoolchildren, following the 
earthquake this week, as well as other peoples suffering 
similar  disasters  and  violence  around  the  world.  We 
pray that God brings comfort and a speedy recovery to 
the affected people and their loved ones.
Horrific  acts  of  violence  and  terrorism  continue 
to  plague  our  world.  Countless  innocent  lives  are 
destroyed  and  lost.  Violence  in  any  form  is  a  direct 
threat to peace and security and seriously undermines 
our  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development.  We 
therefore  condemn  violence  and  terrorism  in  all  their 
forms and manifestations.
We  are  particularly  concerned  with  the  threat  to 
global  peace  and  security  posed  by  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We  acknowledge  the 
persistent efforts of the Security Council to de-escalate 
tensions.  A  renewed  engagement  with 
inclusive 
diplomatic dialogue is, in our view, the only option for 
solving the crisis on the Korean peninsula. We believe 
that  a  military  response  would  lead  to  unimaginable 
destruction and loss of life.
In this vein, Tuvalu maintains its commitments in 
support  of  all  international  legal  instruments  against 
violence  and  terrorism.  It  is  critical  that  we  support 
international  law  for  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human  rights.  We  commend  the  establishment  of  the 
Office of Counter-Terrorism to ensure the effective and 
balanced implementation of the United Nations Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
Just  yesterday,  and  with  pride  on  behalf  of  my 
country, Tuvalu, I signed the Treaty on the Prohibition 
of Nuclear Weapons as a further demonstration of our 
commitment  to  the  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons 
and  to  the  South  Pacific  Nuclear-Free-Zone  Treaty, 
which  was  negotiated  and  drafted  at  the  1984  Pacific 
Island Leaders Forum, held in Tuvalu. It is our fervent 
hope that nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass 
destruction,  including  the  trade  in  materials  and  the 
development of technologies to produce such weapons, 
are totally banned, outlawed and prohibited worldwide 
by the United Nations. Humankind must be advanced 
neither  on  the  principles  of  fear  and  deterrence  nor 
on  the  adage  of  “might  is  right”,  but  rather  on  moral 
justice  for  humankind,  equity,  trust,  respect  and  the 
full enjoyment of basic human rights.
The  entry  into  force  of  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change 
last  year  raised  our  hopes 
that,  in  recognizing  the  existential  threat  to  us  all, 
Member  States  would  commit  to  the  common  cause 
of  fighting  climate  change,  adapting  to  its  impacts 
and  strengthening  the  ability  of  developing  States, 
especially the most vulnerable, to deal with them. The 
Paris Agreement is our common hope of a decent life 
on  a  sustainable  planet.  For  Tuvalu,  it  is  our  hope  of 
security and survival.
This hope, however, dimmed with the announcement 
by  the  United  States  that  it  will  abandon  the  Paris 
Agreement. This decision risks undermining our global 
efforts to save and protect the livelihoods of the people 
who  are  at  risk  from  the  impacts  of  climate  change. 
These  are  the  marginalized,  the  vulnerable,  the  poor, 
the women and the children who suffer the most from 
climate change, especially those who live on low-lying 
islands  and  incoastal  areas.  There  are  already  tens  of 
millions of these people, and their number is increasing 
at an alarming rate.
Domestic,  economic  and  political  interests  are 
often  short-term  and  benefit  only  a  few.  They  should 
not  be  pursued  at  the  expense  of  a  decent  life  for  us 
17-29591
21/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
all,  current  and  future  generations,  on  a  sustainable 
planet.  That  is  the  spirit  that  underpins  our  twenty-
first-century  development  system.  We  therefore  urge 
the  United  States  to  reunite  with  us  and  to  allow  all 
of  us,  in  particular  the  most  vulnerable,  the  best 
possible  chance  to  save  ourselves  and  the  sustainable 
future of humankind. We are nevertheless encouraged 
this  morning  by  the  strong  leadership  of  Canadian 
Prime  Minister  Justin  Trudeau  and  French  President 
Emmanuel Macron on climate change. We thank them 
and highly commend their courage.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  intention  to 
convene a dedicated climate summit in 2019 to mobilize 
political support. It will be an important opportunity, in 
our view, to review our progress and momentum and, 
most importantly, to enhance our commitment to taking 
urgent and credible actions to reverse global warming. 
We  are  also  encouraged  by  the  Secretary-General’s 
commitment 
intensifying  high-level  political 
engagement to limit the temperature rise to well below 
2°C above pre-industrial levels and aiming at limiting 
the  increase  to  1.5°C.  We  are  likewise  heartened  by 
his dedication to rallying the United Nations system to 
better support Member States by mobilizing resources 
and  strengthening  partnerships  in  their  pursuit  of 
climate action.
to 
Indeed, without enhanced commitment and genuine 
partnerships, the Paris Agreement will not save us all, 
especially the most vulnerable. Climate change is a risk 
multiplier on all factors of development. Its challenges 
are complex and continue to change. It is for this reason 
that  we  reiterate  our  call  for  the  appointment  of  a 
special  representative  on  climate  change  and  security 
in  order  to  enhance  international  focus,  coordination 
and commitment. In the same vein, we call for climate 
change  and  security  to  be  a  permanent  item  on  the 
agenda of the Security Council, given its direct threat 
to global peace and security.
For Tuvalu and many of the low-lying islands, our 
peace  and  security  are  not  imperilled  by  traditional 
threats of conflict, violence, drugs, weapons, famine or 
disease. Instead, as the Male’ Declaration on the Human 
Dimension of Climate Change recognized in 2007, “the 
impacts  of  climate  change  pose  the  most  immediate, 
fundamental  and  far-reaching  threat”  to  individuals 
and  communities  in  these  most  vulnerable  States  and 
threaten a wide range of human rights, including
“the right to life, the right to take part in cultural 
life, the right to use and enjoy property, the right 
to an adequate standard of living, the right to food 
and the right to the highest attainable standard of 
physical and mental health”.
Ten  years  ago  we  recognized  that  climate  change 
was  the  single  greatest  major  threat  to  our  peace, 
security and, ultimately, survival. It remains so today, 
and the situation grows more urgent every day. Under 
current warming trends, our islands may be submerged 
under the sea within the next 50 years. If and when that 
happens, we will be forced to abandon our islands, even 
though we contribute the least to global warming and 
sea-level rise. This forced relocation or displacement of 
our people is an injustice and an infringement on our 
fundamental and basic human rights.
It is for this very reason that we continue to call for 
enhanced  global  commitment  and  partnerships  in  the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement. We cannot give 
up on this campaign, for two very simple reasons. First, 
relocation  and  statelessness  are  totally  unacceptable, 
as many of us here in the Hall would agree. Secondly, 
we  all  know  that  membership  of  our  global  family  of 
the United Nations has the tools and resources to save 
Tuvalu and low-lying States from the impacts of climate 
change. It is only a question of whether we have the will 
and the courage to help these people.
We have come together to face grave risks before. 
Over many years, the international community, guided 
by the Charter of the United Nations, has cooperated on 
many fronts to deal with threats such as Ebola, cholera, 
violence, natural disasters and, subsequently, the lives 
and  rights  of  people  displaced  by  such  threats.  The 
international  response  was  immediate  because  these 
threats were potential global threats to humankind. For 
others, however, their response was driven by political 
and economic interests. Sadly, displacement owing to 
the impacts of climate change has not drawn the same 
international concern and response, despite the fact that 
it has the very real potential to become a serious threat 
to global peace, security and human rights.
Uncontrolled  mass  migration  into  Europe  as  a 
result  of  conflicts  and  natural  disasters,  for  example, 
has taught us the very important lesson that we should 
have  had  in  place  effective  international  institutions 
and systems to control, manage and protect the rights 
of migrants. In exactly the same manner, we must now 
formulate  effective  international  systems  to  protect 
22/24 
17-29591
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.13
the  human  rights  of  people  displaced  by  the  impacts 
of climate change and avoid further uncontrolled mass 
migration and mass violation of human rights.
This  preparation  must  include  developing  the 
appropriate  international  legal  tools  to  cope  with  the 
complex and multifaceted challenges posed by climate 
change. In particular, the current refugee regimes that 
were developed to cope with traditional threats do not 
adequately protect people forced to leave their homes 
by the impacts of climate change. We therefore reiterate 
our  proposal  for  a  United  Nations  resolution  on  the 
establishment of a legal process to protect the human 
rights and, ultimately, save the lives of people displaced 
by the impacts of climate change.
As  a  least  developed  country  (LDC)  and  a  small 
island  developing  State  (SIDS),  we  need  enhanced 
global support to overcome the structural challenges we 
face in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. On our own part, Tuvalu has developed 
its national strategy for sustainable development, known 
as  Te  Kakeega  III,  premised  on  building  resilience 
through  good  governance,  inclusive  participation  and 
capacity measures for mitigation for LDCs, with targets 
of 100 per cent renewable energy by 2020, as well as 
coastal protection adaptation on all islands, in order to 
protect and save Tuvalu.
We are grateful to the members of the international 
community for their generous support through the work 
of  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  the  Global  Environment 
Facility  and 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  as  well  as  through  other  donors  and 
bilateral  partners.  While  grateful  for  their  goodwill, 
we  have  established  our  own  Tuvalu  Climate  Change 
and Disaster Survival Fund as a facility to help people 
respond quickly to the impacts of climate change.
To  enhance  further  adaptation  work,  access  to 
appropriate  infrastructures,  maritime  ports  on  the 
islands, airports, technology connectivity, health care, 
quality  education  and  renewable  energy  are  critical 
areas  of  particular  priority.  Tuvalu  will  welcome  the 
development  of  genuine  and  durable  partnerships,  as 
aspired  to  under  the  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of 
Action Pathway.
In regard to the issue of LDC graduation, it is our 
view  that  a  country  must  graduate  only  when  it  can 
achieve  sustainable  development,  not  merely  when  it 
should be able to achieve it. The unique vulnerability 
of SIDS and LDCs such as Tuvalu must be the central 
criteria of consideration for LDC graduation.
As  small  islands  surrounded  by  vast  oceans,  we 
interact  with  the  ocean  every  day  of  our  lives.  We 
are  heavily  dependent  on  the  ocean,  and  the  ocean  is 
central to our achievement of sustainable development. 
We  firmly  believe  that  once  we  have  established  our 
baselines  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  these  baselines,  as  well  as  the 
identified maritime zones, shall remain forever. This is 
irrespective of sea-level rise.
The  ongoing  discussions  on  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction must ensure that 
small  island  developing  States,  with  our  particular 
vulnerabilities,  are  provided  the  necessary  financial 
and technical support to guarantee our equal and fair 
participation in the management and sharing of benefits 
from this instrument. We must agree at this session of 
the Assembly to commence work on developing a legally 
binding  agreement  to  give  protection  to  biodiversity 
beyond national jurisdictions.
Our 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
universal and holistic in that it applies to all countries 
and  actors  and  covers  all  aspects  of  sustainable 
development.  Critically  to  its  success,  the  agenda  is 
rooted  in  human  rights  and  genuine  partnerships. 
But the vibrant democracy of Taiwan, which has long 
been  an  active  and  responsible  development  partner 
to  many  countries,  including  Tuvalu,  is  being  denied 
participation  in  the  United  Nations  system.  It  cannot 
be right that the twenty-second-largest global economy, 
with a notable capacity to contribute, cannot effectively 
participate  in  our  2030  Agenda.  This  is  unfortunate, 
given  that  our  2030  Agenda  needs  genuine  global 
partnerships  to  mobilize  all  available  resources  to 
be  successful.  Under  its  principle  of  universality,  the 
United  Nations  should  allow  the  23  million  people  of 
Taiwan to enjoy their fundamental right to participate 
fully in the United Nations system and to benefit and 
contribute effectively to its programmes.
In  the  same  vein,  the  people  of  Cuba  must  be 
allowed to freely exercise their rights to determine their 
own political, economic and social systems. With their 
rights  and  trade  restricted  by  the  unilateral  blockade 
imposed  by  the  United  States,  the  people  of  Cuba 
are  denied  effective  participation  in  our  Sustainable 
Development Goals programmes.
17-29591
23/24
A/72/PV.13 
21/09/2017
Of  similar  concerns,  the  people  of  West  Papua 
should be enabled to exercise their fundamental right, 
with the intervention of this responsible Organization, 
to  determine  their  own  development  aspirations  and 
future.  The  West  Papuans  are  a  distinct  people  with 
Pacific roots, with their own land, history and culture. 
The violation of human rights in West Papua is a matter 
of  constant  and  great  concern  to  us.  Tuvalu  strongly 
believes that the United Nations must engage in setting 
a clear pathway to address these issues and the issue of 
self-determination for the people of West Papua.
We must embrace the genuine partnership of those 
who can contribute to the realization of a decent life in 
our marginalized communities. We cannot ignore and 
risk  leaving  behind  those  who  hope  for  a  decent  life 
but are being constrained by violence, natural disasters, 
violation of human rights, atrocities and the impacts of 
climate change. We cannot leave anyone behind.
Finally, I wish to express Tuvalu’s strong support 
for a global pact on the environment, as initiated and 
proposed by France. We need an internationally legally 
binding  agreement  that  protects  our  rights  to  a  safe 
and  clean  environment.  We  are  but  on  one  big  canoe 
for humankind and, as Canadian Prime Minister Justin 
Trudeau  said  this  morning  (see  A/72/PV.12),  no  one 
country has the right to jump ship on climate change. 
We must either paddle together to keep the canoe afloat 
and  safe,  or  allow  the  canoe  to  sink  and  drown.  It  is 
our hope that, with this global pact on the environment 
and the Paris Agreement, we can save Tuvalu. If we can 
save Tuvalu, we can save the world.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Tuvalu 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Enele  Sosene  Sopoaga,  Prime  Minister  of 
Tuvalu, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
24/24 
17-29591
