United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
24th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 27 September 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.24
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Statement by the President
Agenda item 107
Crime prevention and criminal justice
High-level meeting of the General Assembly on 
the appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons
Draft resolution (A/72/L.1)
The President: This meeting is held in accordance 
with  resolutions  70/179,  of  17  December  2015,  and 
71/287, of 4 May 2017.
I  warmly  welcome  everyone  to  this  high-level 
meeting,  which  will  appraise  the  progress  achieved 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  in  order  to  assess 
achievements,  gaps  and  challenges,  including  in  the 
implementation of the relevant legal instruments.
The  General  Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft 
resolution 
issued  as  document  A/72/L.1,  entitled 
“Political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons”.
Before proceeding further, I would like to inform 
members  that  action  on  the  draft  political  declaration 
will be taken following the statement by the Executive 
Director  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs 
and Crime.
The President: I would like to welcome and thank 
everyone for their presence and engagement.
This  weekend  I  was  deeply  moved  by  my 
conversation  with  Ms.  Shireen  Ibrahim,  a  Yazidi 
woman and advocate who survived human trafficking 
at the hands of terrorists. Her dignity, human rights and 
person were violated. Her story shows the horrors and 
complexity of this scourge. But most important, it is a 
sombre reminder that we are talking about people here.
We are not holding this meeting to cross it off our 
checklist. We are here to track the progress that we have 
made so far and to see how much further we have to go 
in order to eliminate human trafficking forever. Today 
we  recommit  to  the  fight  against  all  forms  of  human 
trafficking.  We  pledge,  once  again,  our  respect  for 
the human rights and dignity of our people. The draft 
declaration  to  be  adopted  today  shows  our  political 
will  to  end  human  trafficking.  But  that  will  must  be 
manifested in actions. Only then will it be meaningful 
for the people affected. In that regard, I would like to 
highlight three main points.
First,  a  focus  on  people  in  this  context  means  an 
approach  centred  on  victims  and  survivors.  It  also 
means upholding the human rights and dignity of people 
like  Shireen  Ibrahim,  Grizelda  Grootboom  and  many 
others. I pause to pay special tribute to the victims and 
survivors, some of whom are with us here today. Their 
presence reminds us of the reason that we are here — so 
that people can live freely and peacefully and free from 
the threat of human trafficking. For those victims and 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-30134 (E)
*1730134*
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
survivors who do not have a platform, we have a duty to 
be their voice. That is why the United Nations is here.
Secondly,  we  must  strengthen  our  prevention 
efforts.  Today’s  global  peace  and  security  challenges 
amplify  the  risk  of  human  trafficking.  We  need  to 
address  the  root  causes.  Shireen  Ibrahim’s  story 
underscores what we already know: conflict prevention 
helps to prevent human trafficking. The chasm between 
peace and war has many perils, and human trafficking is 
one of them. Conflicts and humanitarian disasters force 
millions  to  flee  their  homes.  With  human  trafficking 
and migration following similar geographical patterns, 
some get caught at the ever-shifting intersection of the 
two. Furthermore, we are confronted by terrorists and 
criminals  who  have  no  regard  for  human  suffering. 
They thrive on the instability created by conflicts and 
humanitarian crises. A lack of strong institutions and 
the absence of the rule of law allow human trafficking 
to  continue  with  impunity.  We  also  know  that  those 
groups derive financing from this criminal enterprise.
Those are but a few aspects of human trafficking. 
The full picture is complex and many-sided, but what is 
common across the whole spectrum is that prevention is 
better than the cure. Poverty, human rights violations, 
food insecurity and other vulnerabilities fuel the flames 
of human trafficking. The financial benefits provide the 
oxygen.  We  must  starve  traffickers  of  benefits  while 
addressing  both  the  demand  and  supply  side  of  the 
problem. For that, we need all hands on deck for what we 
in the United Nations call a multi-stakeholder approach.
Thirdly,  those  most  at  risk  among  us  require 
our  special  attention.  Women,  children,  internally 
displaced  persons  and  refugees  are  among  the  most 
vulnerable to human trafficking. Approximately 79 per 
cent  of  all  detected  victims  are  women  and  children. 
Human  trafficking’s  focus  on  women  and  children 
threatens  to  unravel  the  fabric  of  our  society.  It  rolls 
back  the  progress  that  we  have  made.  Therefore,  we 
must put the spotlight on those who are most vulnerable 
to trafficking.
Lastly  and  importantly,  we  have  many  plans  and 
instruments  at  hand.  We  must  take  further  concerted 
action  to  achieve  a  world  free  of  human  trafficking. 
Our  plans  include,  first,  the  Global  Plan  of  Action; 
secondly, 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children;  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals — Goals 5, 8 and 16 call on us to 
end  human  trafficking,  with  particular  emphasis  on 
women,  children  and  decent  work;  and,  fourthly,  the 
New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants, 
adopted  at  the  2016  United  Nations  Summit  for 
Refugees and Migrants.
Another important instrument is the draft political 
declaration to be adopted today. I thank the Permanent 
Representatives  of  Qatar  and  Belgium  for 
their 
invaluable efforts, which have led us to this consensual 
outcome. I urge States to continue their contributions to 
the United Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children. 
The fund is an important part of our commitment to help 
victims and survivors recover from this crime, reclaim 
their dignity and minimize the risk of revictimization 
and retrafficking. Resources must match the scale of the 
challenges that we face in fighting human trafficking.
Human  trafficking  knows  no  borders.  It  affects 
people in the North and the South, and has many faces. 
We have made progress, but we have much further to go. 
Our goal is zero trafficking. Let us commit to stronger 
cooperation  for  decisive  global  action  and  leave  the 
abhorrent trade in human beings in the past forever.
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General.
The  Secretary-General:  I  thank  the  General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  important  meeting  on 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons, and I congratulate members of 
the Assembly on their successful deliberations on the 
draft political declaration to be adopted this morning.
According to the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and Crime’s Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, 
tens of millions of people are victims of forced labour, 
sexual servitude, recruitment as child soldiers or other 
forms of exploitation and abuse. Human trafficking is 
all around us, in every region of the world. It grips the 
weakest  and  most  vulnerable.  Women  and  girls,  but 
also boys, are cruelly exploited for sex and vital organs. 
Children  are  forced  into  endless  begging,  and  men 
into brutal labour. Countless businesses, in the global 
North and South alike, benefit from the misery. From 
construction to food production, to consumer goods, a 
great many enterprises are tainted by this stain. Often, 
trafficking is intertwined with racial, gender and other 
forms of discrimination.
2/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
In recent years, increasing conflict, insecurity and 
economic uncertainty have brought about new tests. As 
millions of children, women and men spill out of their 
countries  towards  safety,  they  find  themselves  at  the 
mercy of merciless people. Thousands of people have 
died  at  sea,  in  deserts  or  detention  centres  and  at  the 
hands of wretched traffickers. Criminal networks have 
used  the  disorder  and  despair  in  the  world  to  expand 
their  brutality  and  reach.  Terrorist  groups  such  as 
Da’esh  and  Boko  Haram  continue  to  seek  the  capture 
and enslavement of women, girls and boys. Others use 
their victims for forced labour.
Those gangs and groups are global, well organized, 
technologically  savvy  and  highly  proficient  at  taking 
advantage  of  gaps  in  governance  and  weaknesses 
in  institutions.  We  must  be  equally  determined  in 
countering  this  menace.  Too  often,  human  traffickers 
operate with impunity and receive much less attention 
than, for example, drug traffickers. That must change. I 
have seen many drug lords in jail, and rightly so. I have 
never seen a human-trafficking lord in jail.
Fighting  human  trafficking  requires  us  to  make 
greater  use  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocol  to 
Prevent,  Suppress  and  Punish  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
Especially Women and Children, to which the President 
just referred, as well as the United Nations Convention 
against  Corruption,  and  other  relevant  instruments.  It 
also requires much stronger cooperation among Member 
States, making use of the full range of their instruments.
traffickers  prey  on  vulnerable  and 
marginalized  people,  the  problem  can  seem  remote 
from those members of society who are more fortunate, 
including  political  decision-makers.  By  contrast, 
the  threat  of  illicit  drugs  typically  feels  very  close, 
and  therefore  receives  attention  and  resources  from 
all Governments.
Because 
I  remember  that  when  I  was  Prime  Minister  of 
Portugal, almost 20 years ago, I always thought that one 
day my children could fall victim to illicit drugs. I never 
thought  they  could  fall  victim  to  human  trafficking. 
That is probably why, with a great deal of commitment, 
my  Government  introduced  a  drug  policy  that  even 
today is considered by many to be a reference point. But 
we did not do enough with regard to human trafficking.
It  is  clear  to  me  that  it  is  our  responsibility  as 
leaders  to  make  human  trafficking  a  real  priority  for 
international  cooperation.  The  New  York  Declaration 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants,  adopted  last  year,  was  a 
welcome step. Next year’s General Assembly conference 
aimed at adopting a global compact for safe, orderly and 
regular migration will be a further potential milestone.
Refugees  and  migrants  are  especially  vulnerable, 
and  their  plight  is  only  compounded  when  they  are 
treated  as  criminals  by  their  host  Governments  and 
communities. The international community must create 
legal  and  safe  migration  channels,  and,  in  combating 
trafficking,  we  must  simultaneously  uphold  the  right 
of  refugees  to  asylum.  International  cooperation  is 
essential, 
law 
enforcement and legal assistance. The Security Council 
has  adopted 
the 
financing of both terrorists and traffickers.
information-sharing, 
resolutions 
important 
including 
for 
targeting 
We must strengthen support to victims, particularly 
through  the  United  Nations  voluntary  trust  fund  for 
victims  of  trafficking  in  persons,  which  provides 
crucial  assistance  to  survivors.  No  one  should  have 
to  confront  the  trauma  of  their  experiences  alone.  A 
survivor-centred approach is critical.
Yet another tool is the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, which addresses some of the root causes 
that  make  people  vulnerable  to  trafficking.  Often, 
trafficking  is  abetted  by  poverty  and  inequality. 
Fighting 
sustainable, 
inclusive development go hand in hand.
trafficking  and  advancing 
Our  efforts 
should  also 
involve  awareness 
campaigns.  The  more  people  know  about  the  dangers 
of trafficking, the better equipped they can be to avoid 
its horrors.
As long as this crime exists we cannot tell young 
people that the future will be better than the past. We 
cannot deliver on a world of hope and opportunity for 
all, and we dare not look at ourselves without a sense 
of abiding shame. Now is the time to stand together and 
stamp out this abominable practice.
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 
his statement.
In  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
71/287,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Yury  Fedotov, 
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs and Crime.
Mr.  Fedotov  (United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs 
and  Crime):  The  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  remains  a  keystone  of  our 
17-30134
3/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
collective action. This appraisal and the draft political 
declaration we are about to adopt can help to take that 
commitment  forward  and  to  sharpen  responses  to  an 
odious crime that continues to exploit and victimize the 
most vulnerable persons in all parts of the world.
Since the General Assembly adopted the landmark 
Global Plan of Action, in 2010, we have strengthened 
efforts  to  prevent  and  stop  this  crime,  most  of  all 
through the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish 
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children 
supplementing  the  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime.  To  date,  171  Member  States  have 
acceded to the Protocol, and most of them align their 
domestic laws with its provisions.
In  the  Global  Plan  of  Action,  the  Assembly 
entrusted the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime 
(UNODC)  with  preparing  biennial  global  reports  on 
trafficking in persons. Our research has made it clear 
that aligning legislation with the Protocol is helpful in 
improving  criminal  justice  responses.  Nevertheless, 
enforcement gaps remain. I completely agree with the 
Secretary-General about the low conviction rates of the 
real trafficking lords and our need to do more. That is 
fully confirmed in the UNODC biennial reports.
New  technologies  are  being  abused  to  facilitate 
human trafficking, thereby further straining capacities 
to  detect  and  investigate  this  crime.  The  Security 
Council  has  highlighted  the  threat  posed  by  human 
trafficking to international peace and security, and the 
Council  remains  engaged  in  addressing  this  crime  in 
the context of armed conflict. Going forward, we need 
to  do  more  to  translate  that  high  level  of  awareness 
into more effective action and to make better use of the 
established  international  legal  framework  to  protect 
victims and ensure justice.
I  am  honoured  by  the  Assembly’s  recognition  of 
the  institutional  role  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs  and  Crime  in  the  global  fight  against  human 
trafficking. UNODC remains fully engaged in working 
with  our  United  Nations  partners  and  other  partners 
to support Member States in preventing trafficking in 
persons  and  in  implementing  victim-centred  criminal 
justice responses.
We  need  to  strengthen  data  collection  in  order 
to  build  a  robust  evidence  base.  We  must  also 
work  together  towards  a  common  framework  for 
defining  and  assessing  progress,  taking  into  account 
the  anti-trafficking  targets  under  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, namely, Goals 5.2, on trafficking 
in women and girls; 8.7, on forced labour; and 16.2, on 
trafficking and all forms of violence against children. 
To  support  that,  UNODC  is  currently  working  with 
innovative 
the  academic  community 
methodologies 
the 
dimensions and scope of the trafficking problem. At the 
same time, we must coordinate support so as to be as 
coherent, efficient and effective as possible, including 
through the Inter-Agency Coordination Group against 
Trafficking in Persons.
to  measure  and  understand 
to  develop 
We  need  Governments  to  develop  the  necessary 
research  to  put  laws  into  practice,  support  victims, 
train  practitioners  and  enable  inter-agency  and  cross-
border  cooperation.  In  line  with  the  Protocol,  we 
must help States parties address challenges that make 
people — especially women and children — vulnerable 
to  trafficking,  including  poverty,  underemployment 
and the lack of equal opportunity.
Finally,  I  urge  members  to  pledge  support  to  the 
United  Nations  voluntary  trust  fund  for  victims  of 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
established by the Global Plan of Action. The fund is 
providing meaningful direct assistance, but its impact 
will fall short of its potential if it does not receive the 
necessary  resources.  I  have  heard  that  some  Member 
States will announce generous new pledges to the trust 
fund.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
them in advance for their generous offers. Please help 
us  to  amplify  the  support  to  enable  more  trafficking 
victims to become survivors.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  turn  to 
draft resolution A/72/L.1, entitled “Political declaration 
on  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons”. We 
shall now proceed to consider the draft resolution.
In connection with this draft resolution, I give the 
floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Abelian  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  The  present  statement 
is  made  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure  of  the  General  Assembly  and  has  been 
distributed  desk-to-desk  and  made  available  on  the 
PaperSmart portal.
Under the terms of paragraph 12 of draft resolution 
A/72/L.1,  the  General  Assembly  would  stress  the 
need  to  ensure  overall  organization  and  coherence  in 
4/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
the efforts of the United Nations system to respond to 
trafficking  in  persons,  especially  in  ensuring  support 
to  Member  States.  In  that  regard,  while  recalling 
that  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against 
Trafficking  in  Persons  (ICAT)  was  established  to 
foster coordination and cooperation among the relevant 
United Nations system entities and other international 
organizations  involved  in  combating  trafficking  in 
persons, with the United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime  (UNODC)  as  its  coordinator,  the  Assembly 
would  urge  the  Secretary-General  to  continue  efforts 
to  strengthen  coordination  within  the  United  Nations 
system  and  to  inform  Member  States  thereof  through 
existing reporting channels.
Under  the  terms  of  paragraph  13  of  the  draft 
resolution, the General Assembly would recognize the 
important role played in the United Nations system by the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  and  invite  it  to  continue  to  increase  its 
activities  related  to  the  implementation  of  the  Global 
Plan of Action and, to that end, to incorporate aspects of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development relevant 
to preventing and combating trafficking in persons and 
to  consider  how  future  activities  will  be  coordinated 
and how the duplication of efforts will be avoided. The 
Assembly  would  encourage  the  Coordination  Group 
to expand its working group to include entities of the 
United Nations system that are not currently active in 
the  working  group  but  that  have  a  role  in  addressing 
trafficking in persons.
With regard to paragraphs 12 and 13, it should be 
noted  that  currently  there  are  two  Crime  Prevention 
and Criminal Justice Officers at the P-4 level allocated 
to the implementation of the United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime core mandates relating to the Protocol 
to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children,  supplementing  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime,  and  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to 
Combat Trafficking in Persons.
Those staff resources were approved in the context 
of the programme budget for the biennium 2012-2013 
pursuant  to  resolution  64/293,  adopting  the  United 
Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons, to perform the following activities. One Crime 
Prevention  and  Criminal  Justice  Officer  is  dedicated 
to  all  technical  assistance  for  the  implementation  of 
both  the  Human  Trafficking  and  Migrant  Smuggling 
Protocols,  as  well  as  the  Global  Plan  of  Action,  and 
one  Crime  Prevention  and  Criminal  Justice  Officer 
is  dedicated  to  the  preparation  of  the  Global  Report 
on  Trafficking  in  Persons.  Those  regular  budget  staff 
resources  are  fully  devoted  to  already  mandated 
programme  activities.  Therefore,  there  are  no  staff 
resources available that could be redeployed to perform 
additional tasks or activities.
Also with regard to paragraphs 12 and 13, UNODC 
would need to continue its coordination of the expanded 
network  of  agencies  involved  in  the  Inter-Agency 
Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking  in  Persons. 
That  includes  substantive  support  and  facilitation  in 
many  areas  —  joint  policy  development,  information 
sharing,  involvement  in  the  advocacy,  outreach  and 
coordination  activities  of  ICAT  member  agencies 
and  developing  annual  ICAT  work  plans;  preparing, 
servicing  and  coordinating  meetings  and  calls, 
including  the  drafting  of  documentation  and  meeting 
records  related  thereto;  coordinating  briefing  events, 
advocacy and reporting; compiling, disseminating and 
storing relevant information among member agencies; 
engaging  and  supervising  consultants;  and  record-
keeping  and  day-to-day  communication  with  ICAT 
members and ICAT external stakeholders.
In  2012,  an  extrabudgetary  contribution  of 
$600,000  allowed  UNODC  to  undertake  a  series  of 
technical  assistance  and  advocacy  activities  related 
to the implementation of ICAT and the Global Plan of 
Action. Those included holding regular teleconferences 
and working group meetings to exchange information 
among the various agencies; the organization of expert 
group  meetings  to  review  relevant  issues;  the  launch 
of three ICAT thematic papers; the finalization of two 
additional papers setting out the joint positions of the 
agencies involved on key issues relating to the Protocol 
and the Global Plan of Action; and advocacy events in 
Geneva, New York and Vienna on the work of ICAT.
Extrabudgetary resources in the amount of $180,900 
would be required to hire one Programme Officer at the 
P-3  level  in  the  Anti-Human  Trafficking  and  Migrant 
Smuggling  Section  to  enable  the  continuation  of 
UNODC coordination and support the implementation 
of  the  draft  resolution.  The  position  would  provide 
the  substantive  support  required  for  the  continuation 
of  the  technical-assistance  activities  related  to  the 
implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  and  the 
enhanced coordination of ICAT.
17-30134
5/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
Those activities would be carried out, provided that 
additional extrabudgetary resources are made available. 
Should  such  extrabudgetary  resources  not  be  made 
available, in accordance with paragraph 26 of the draft 
resolution, consultations would need to be undertaken 
to determine the necessary programmatic changes and 
resource requirements needed for their implementation. 
Hence, the adoption of draft resolution A/72/L.1 would 
not  entail  any  additional  appropriation  under  the 
programme budget for the biennium 2016-2017 or the 
proposed  programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2018-
2019.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision on draft resolution A/72/L.1, entitled “Political 
declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons”.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
adopt draft resolution A/72/L.1?
Draft resolution A/72/L.1 was adopted (resolution 
72/1).
The President: I wish to express my sincere thanks 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Marc  Pecsteen  de  Buytswerve, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Belgium  to  the  United 
Nations, and to Her Excellency Ms. Alya Ahmed Saif 
Al-Thani,  Permanent  Representative  of  Qater  to  the 
United Nations, who so ably and patiently conducted the 
discussions  and  complex  negotiations  in  the  informal 
consultations to bring them to a successful conclusion. 
I am sure that the members of the Assembly join me in 
extending our sincere appreciation to them.
We shall now continue with the statements in the 
opening segment of the high-level meeting.
In  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
71/287,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Mira  Sorvino, 
Goodwill  Ambassador  for  the  Global  Fight  against 
Human Trafficking.
Ms. Sorvino: I thank you, Mr. President, for inviting 
me to address the General Assembly. Since 2009, I have 
had the enormous honour to serve the United Nation as 
the Goodwill Ambassador for the Global Fight against 
Human  Trafficking  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on 
Drugs and Crime (UNODC).
I  have  travelled  the  world  with  the  UNODC 
Blue  Heart  Campaign  against  Human  Trafficking  to 
encourage  action  and  awareness.  I  have  interviewed 
scores  of  survivors,  who  have  broken  my  heart  with 
the  inhuman  brutality  they  have  endured,  but  who 
inspired  me  with  their  heroism  and  insights.  I  have 
also  interviewed  innovative  Government  actors  and 
tirelessly  altruistic  non-governmental  organization 
(NGO)  workers  —  and  even  a  trafficker,  who  spoke 
of his victims as if they were simply mercantile goods 
whose suffering meant nothing.
I had the privilege of being witness to and a minor 
participant in the drafting session for the Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. Some may 
remember  my  non-protocol,  but  heartfelt,  outbursts 
about the fact that the victims and survivors I had met 
urgently needed the help of the Global Plan of Action 
and  the  voluntary  trust  fund,  and  that  they  could  not 
wait another minute.
I spoke at the first assessment of the Global Plan 
of Action, in 2013 (see A/67/PV.77). Now, here at the 
second,  I  am  very  heartened  to  see  the  adoption  of 
resolution  72/1.  However,  I  feel  compelled  to  urge 
everyone in this Hall not to rest on that proclamation, 
and to actually turn words into meaningful and robust 
action,  which  is  long  overdue  for  those  millions  still 
waiting in torment.
The political declaration on the implementation of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1) notes that the 
scale of global resourcing to fight trafficking in persons 
does  not  match  that  of  the  challenge.  A  just-released 
report from the International Labour Organization and 
International Organization for Migration estimates that, 
in  2016,  40.3  million  people  were  victims  of  modern 
slavery. Women and girls accounted for 71 per cent, and 
a quarter of the victims were children.
What was the global response? The United States 
Government  Trafficking  in  Persons  Report  indicates 
that in 2016 there were fewer than 10,000 convictions 
of  human  traffickers  worldwide.  That  colossal  failure 
to  rescue  and  protect  the  world’s  most  vulnerable  is 
absolutely untenable.
At a time where it may seem out of fashion to side 
with the marginalized and the oppressed, members of 
the Assembly — the gathered guardians of the highest 
standards of moral governance — must not look away 
from  the  victims  of  human  trafficking.  That  the  fruit 
we enjoy on our table of plenty may be picked by slave 
hands, or that the young girls and boys we pass huddling 
6/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
on a shadowy side street may be sexually trafficked, is 
something to which we must no longer turn a blind eye.
What  is  the  modern  definition  of  humankind’s 
purpose  if  not  to  strive  harder  to  uplift  all  members 
of  the  global  community  so  that  they  can  enjoy  basic 
standards of human rights, freedom from exploitation 
and  the  promise  of  the  pursuit  of  education  and 
possibility?  All  of  those  aspirations  lead  to  a  freer, 
more stable, prosperous and peaceful world — and all 
are goals that Member States champion.
The  current  conditions  of  conflict  and  natural 
disaster  are  creating  humanitarian  crises  and  refugee 
migrations on what may be an unprecedented scale, with 
60 million displaced persons and 20 million refugees. 
Human trafficking is their direct consequence, not just 
a side effect.
I  applaud  the  Secretary-General’s  long-standing 
support of migrants and refugees. We must all look for 
ways to create immediate countermeasures to this direct 
pipeline to victimhood for those vulnerable people, and 
not just attempt damage control after the fact.
I  applaud  the  fact  that  the  declaration  recognizes 
that  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  and  the  2030  Agenda, 
including  the  three  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs) pertaining to combating human trafficking, are 
mutually reinforcing, and its promotion of that fact. I 
urge  all  Member  States,  along  with  civil  society  and 
the  private  sector,  to  vigorously  employ  the  excellent 
recommendations  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action.  We 
have the means and the knowledge of best practices to 
fight and end human trafficking, but only if we deploy 
the moral urgency, enormous political will and robust 
financial resources that this dire situation calls for.
First, survivor leaders must be involved in all apects 
of policy development. There must be cooperation and 
shared  information  among  Governments,  and  a  firm 
commitment  to  root  out  corruption,  which  hampers 
efforts to fight trafficking and sometimes foments it. We 
need a trauma-, gender- and child-sensitive approach to 
all law-and-order responses; victim services that utilize 
the most advanced testimony-gathering technology, so 
as not to re-traumatize; and evidence-led investigations, 
including  a  capacity  for  undercover  authority,  so  that 
witness testimony is not a case’s only hope.
trafficking and having it tried by specialist prosecutors 
who seek punishments commensurate with other severe 
crimes, not just easily paid fines; and the expungement 
of crimes that the victims were forced to commit while 
in bondage.
training 
in 
Society-wide 
identifying  human-
trafficking  situations  and  victims  is  crucial,  as  are 
preventive  curriculums  for  middle-  and  high  school-
age  children,  awareness  campaigns  for  migrants  and 
refugees,  programmes  targeting  the  demand  side  of 
sexual exploitation, partnerships with the private sector 
to root out slavery in corporate supply chains, in-depth 
Internet investigations to stop child sex trafficking, and 
actions to prevent debt bondage and penalize recruiters.
The  list  goes  on,  and  we  must  see  a  parallel, 
vigorous  attack  on  the  root  causes  of  vulnerability, 
such  as  gender  inequality,  cultural  discrimination, 
poverty, access to clean water, education and economic 
opportunity.
If  those  of  us  here  look  at  the  table  before  them, 
they  will  find  a  Blue  Heart  pin  representing  the 
sadness  of  the  victims  and  the  cold-heartedness  of 
their  traffickers.  The  blue  United  Nations  colour  also 
demonstrates our commitment to combating this crime. 
We  hope  members  will  wear  the  Blue  Heart  to  raise 
awareness  of  human  trafficking  and  galvanize  their 
commitment to fight it.
I  would  ask  everyone  to  donate  generously  to 
the  United  Nations  voluntary  trust  fund  for  victims 
of  trafficking  in  persons,  which  is  a  direct  way  for 
lifesaving and life-changing services to be delivered to 
victims and survivors globally through extremely well-
vetted  on-the-ground  NGOs.  As  an  Italo-American,  I 
am proud to announce that Italy is donating $1 million 
to that vital fund today. I recently learned that I have 
DNA from many other regions, including Scandinavia, 
Great Britain, Germany, Spain, Eastern Europe, North 
Africa, the Middle East and even sub-Saharan Africa. 
I am a true melting pot, and I specialized in East Asian 
studies in college. I will therefore happily acclaim and 
applaud all Member States that match or add to that gift.
We are all one community, and it is high time for 
us to do all that we can to protect and uplift the most 
vulnerable among us.
Other measures include ensuring that civil redress is 
included in, but does not replace, criminal proceedings 
for victims; Governments prioritizing the prosecution of 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  resolution 
71/287, I now give the floor to Ms. Grizelda Grootboom 
from South Africa, as a representative of civil society.
17-30134
7/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
Ms. Grootboom: My name is Grizelda Grootboom. 
I am from the Western Cape township of Khayelitsha. 
Being a street kid in Cape Town was to be a seeker after 
the journey that Nelson Mandela was also looking for. 
At  the  age  of  eight,  we  were  all  walking  through  the 
streets  in  District  6.  When  he  screamed  “Freedom!”, 
we knew that we would get more freedom in the form of 
shelters and people finally giving us blankets and food. 
But that freedom was still a journey and a long walk for 
all street kids.
My journey ended in the hands of somebody who 
knew that I was desperate for hope and freedom. She 
was  a  friend.  She  decided  to  take  my  hope  and  turn 
it  into  a  nightmare.  She  trafficked  me  all  the  way  to 
Johannesburg.  The  first  thing  that  I  knew  was  that, 
as  friends,  we  definitely  shared  the  same  dreams  and 
hopes as black children. Walking into the house, which 
smelled so fresh and hopeful, I knew that that change 
was going to be the best change of my whole life. Taking 
a  nap  in  an  empty  room  with  very  fresh-smelling 
wooden floors, I knew that I was in safe hands.
The thing that woke me up was a punch and kick 
in the stomach. I thought that I was in the wrong house 
and tried to scream, but they began wrapping duct tape 
around my eyes and mouth, undressing me and injecting 
my legs with crystal meth behind my knees. The drug 
made  my  blood  so  thin  that  my  eyes  became  foggy, 
and I could not hear the sounds of anything happening 
around my body. The only thing I felt was my heartbeat 
and the little spirit that I had inside me, hoping that she 
would come back. I realized that she was not going to 
come  back  only  when  the  first  client  walked  in,  and 
they told him, “Fresh meat on the market”.
That  went  on  for  at  least  two  weeks.  I  began  to 
count the seconds and the times my heart beat by the 
people  —  by  the  men  who  came  in  and  the  way  they 
smelled. It is morning: he is coming from home. It is the 
afternoon: he probably just came from a business deal. 
The  evening  continued  until  the  morning  next  day.  I 
got kicked out of the house in the middle of the night 
and was replaced by a younger girl. I could smell her 
freshness and heard her trying to kick and bite hands 
over her mouth.
It was in the middle of the night, and I knew that 
my  animal  survival  instincts  needed  to  kick  in.  I  did 
not know the Johannesburg streets. I did know that the 
first thing to do was to count the number of Mercedes-
Benzes to know which map I was on. I first made it to 
the truck-stop area. There, we knew that a lot of clients 
were waiting. There, I looked for the first master, and 
he said, ”Welcome to my city”.
Between the ages of 18 to 26, I worked all around 
South Africa, in brothels, strip clubs and high- and low-
end gentlemen’s clubs. At the age of 26, I was working 
in Port Elizabeth. We were holding the greatest sports 
events in Africa. Everybody was at our brothel, all types 
of men, black, white, rich and poor. That year I got very 
used  to  the  industry.  I  knew  that  if  you  pleased  the 
madam, if you pleased the pimp, everybody was happy.
I  became  pregnant  with  Summer,  my  baby  girl. 
I  called  her  Summer  because  following  every  shift 
in  the  morning  she  would  continue  to  kick.  After  six 
months,  my  madam  said  that  that  kind  of  breed  was 
not  welcome  in  that  sick  slave  industry.  Immediately, 
an  in-house  abortion  took  place.  Three  hours  later,  I 
was asked to return to work. I had to use a lot of cotton 
to  prevent  the  blood  from  flowing  into  the  client. 
That same minute was when I knew that the life that I 
thought I was going to have was taken from me and that 
I did not deserve health or life. Immediately, I said no, 
and  because  I  refused  my  madam’s  next  client,  I  was 
taken downstairs, beaten and driven all the way back to 
Johannesburg. I woke up in the hospital a month later, 
and my year of rehabilitation began.
That  was  the  journey  of  my  exit.  It  was  really 
tough, because everybody thought that I wanted to be 
a sex slave. I did not have any identity, but everybody 
knew my nakedness. Consequently, at every door that I 
knocked on at the age of 27, I was made to know that it 
was my fault for being a sex slave. Well, the rest of my 
sisters knew that I was not going to make it out of society 
being a sex-slave statistic. Without wasting any time, I 
went back to the pimps. I became their drug trafficker 
from one city to another, until I got the opportunity to 
drop drugs in Cape Town — my hometown — and that 
was when the next journey of exit took place.
Today I stand here with the images of girls whom 
I have lost throughout the 18 years. I am blessed to be 
alive. I am blessed to feel healthy. But I am not blessed 
to see the headlines every time another young girl has 
been trafficked.
The sex-slave industry makes so much money in an 
hour that sometimes we used to think that by the age 
of  18  or  21  we  were  not  going  to  be  alive.  My  health 
reminds me every day that I was a sex slave, through 
8/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
the boils, through HIV — and through the headaches, 
of course.
Sex  slavery  is  a  new  thing  that  holds  a  new  kind 
of oppression over women and girls all over the world. 
The  people  who  run  it  are  men,  of  course.  In  every 
brothel, in every pimp, you will find a man. The buyers 
are not interested in the slave’s colour or age, as long as 
she is a woman or a girl. Apparently, right now in our 
society, sex slavery is the only thing that can sustain us 
economically, but every girl and woman loses the soul 
of dignity in her life through it.
The  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  are 
gathered  here  today  to  commit  to  implementing 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Persons.  Approximately  96  per  cent  of  sex-trafficked 
human beings are women and girls. I was one of them. 
I  often  use  the  term  “sex  slavery”  to  describe  what 
traffickers — every pimp and every madam — used to 
tell me. But most important, if anyone here had to see 
me on the corner, he or she would never say that I was 
a slave.
Sex  slavery  is  just  another  form  of  oppression, 
especially for the black child. In South Africa we come 
from apartheid. We used to call it slavery. While I was a 
sex slave, people would suggest that I leave. I tried it so 
many times, but the conversation would always end up 
with the words “It is voluntary. You want to be there.”
I  am  so  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General,  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  the  United 
Nations  for  the  invitation  to  come  here  to  speak. 
A  survivor’s  voice  is  so  important,  not  for  just  this 
gathering,  but  for  young  girls  who  are  stuck  in  sex 
slavery, so that they may hear the hope that the United 
Nations can give them. I do not speak because I want to 
be a speaker or an activist. I do so because I understand 
every single aspect of the pain and bondage of being a 
sex slave.
I really hope that the Global Plan will not be just 
the  action  of  putting  pen  to  paper,  but  that  it  will 
inspire  action  in  every  rural  township  and  city  and 
country  —  but  most  of  all  for  the  human  dignity  of 
every young girl and woman.
The President: We have heard the last speaker for 
the opening segment of the high-level meeting.
Before proceeding further, I would like to remind 
members  that  the  first  interactive  panel  discussion, 
entitled  “The  Global  Plan  of  Action  and  effective 
for 
taking 
into  consideration 
partnerships 
the  prevention  and  prosecution 
of  trafficking  in  persons:  achievements,  gaps  and 
challenges,  also 
the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals”, 
will take place this afternoon from 3 to 4 p.m. The second 
interactive panel discussion, entitled “The Global Plan 
of Action and effective partnerships for the protection 
of  and  assistance  to  victims,  including  through  the 
United  Nations  voluntary  trust  fund  for  victims  of 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children, 
also  taking  into  consideration  the  implementation  of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals”,  will  take  place 
from 4 to 6 p.m. The interactive panel discussions will 
be  held  in  the  Trusteeship  Council  Chamber.  I  would 
also like to remind members that the Chairs of the panel 
discussions will present summaries of the deliberations 
to the General Assembly at the closing plenary meeting, 
to be held in the afternoon of Thursday, 28 September.
Before we begin with the list of speakers, I would 
like to turn to some organizational matters pertaining 
to  the  conduct  of  the  plenary  meetings.  I  would  like 
to  explain  to  all  speakers  that,  in  order  to  enable 
the  maximum  participation  within  the  limited  time 
available,  speakers  making  statements  in  plenary 
meetings  should  be  limited  to  three  minutes  when 
speaking in their national capacity, and to five minutes 
when  speaking  on  behalf  of  a  group  of  States,  as 
stipulated in resolution 71/287. As members will recall, 
in its resolution 71/323, of 8 September 2017, the General 
Assembly called for strict adherence by speakers to the 
time limits in the Assembly, particularly during  high-
level meetings.
Also  in  accordance  with  resolution  71/323,  the 
“all  protocols  observed”  principle  is  recommended, 
whereby  participants  are  encouraged  to  refrain  from 
listing  standard  protocol  expressions  during  their 
statements. In the light of the given time frame, I would 
like to appeal to speakers to deliver their statements at 
a normal speed so that interpretation may be provided 
properly. To assist speakers in managing their time, a 
light system has been installed at the speaker’s rostrum. 
I would appeal to all speakers for their cooperation in 
observing the time limit of their statements so that all 
those inscribed will be heard in a timely manner.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Minister  of  Justice  of 
Luxembourg.
Mr.  Braz  (Luxembourg):  I  would  first  like  to 
commend  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  today’s 
17-30134
9/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
through 
trafficking 
meeting. The fight against human trafficking must be 
fought  on  a  global  scale  if  we  want  it  to  be  efficient. 
But all of us, every Member State of the international 
community, have to take on our share in that endeavour.
Human  trafficking  is  a  very  serious  crime,  and 
a  gross  violation  of  fundamental  rights.  It  denies  its 
victims  their  very  humanity.  Luxembourg  combats 
human 
a  multidisciplinary 
approach,  as  recommended  by 
international  and 
regional organizations such as the United Nations, the 
European  Union,  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe, in the 
framework of normative texts, projects and awareness-
raising campaigns. At the national level, Luxembourg’s 
policy  on  human  trafficking  focuses  on  three  main 
areas  —  prevention,  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
victims’ rights and the prosecution of perpetrators and 
co-perpetrators.  We  have  undertaken  the  following 
actions.
In  December  2016,  the  Government  launched  a 
national media campaign to enhance the fight against 
human trafficking and to inform the public at large of 
its various forms and of the fact that trafficking exists 
in Luxembourg. The campaign included spots shown in 
theatres, radio messages and posters in public spaces.
The Government of Luxembourg also organized an 
international conference in Luxembourg in December 
2016, during Luxembourg’s Benelux presidency, which 
brought  together  many  actors  around  the  topic  of 
human trafficking. The Benelux countries — Belgium, 
the  Netherlands  and  Luxembourg  —  signed  a  joint 
declaration on strengthening cooperation in this area. 
This  issue  will  again  be  on  the  agenda  in  2017.  Our 
main concern is adequate and sufficient training of our 
law-enforcement authorities.
In  2017, 
the  National 
Institute  of  Public 
Administration  organized  four  different  kinds  of 
training for public officials, including police, customs 
agents and labour inspectors, members of civil society, 
immigration  agents,  representatives  of  municipalities 
and diplomatic personnel. We are also making special 
efforts  to  raise  awareness  among  judges.  Members 
of  the  judiciary  have  undergone  a  special  training 
course for judges and attorneys organized by France’s 
École  nationale  de  la  magistrature.  As  a  result,  the 
number  of  cases  taken  to  court  in  recent  years  has 
increased steadily.
Our 
together 
inter-ministerial 
representatives 
enforcement,  Government  ministries 
trafficking  coordinating 
from 
committee  brings 
law 
and 
non-governmental  organizations  in  charge  of  victim 
protection  and  meets  at  least  bimonthly.  The  fight, 
which is an ongoing and continuous process, will remain 
a national priority for years to come. No one has done 
enough on this matter. We can all do more and do better. 
We will continue our efforts to address this challenge 
globally through European and global institutions and 
through our funding and implementation of development 
cooperation in some of the most vulnerable regions. In 
that context, the role of the United Nations, in particular 
its Vienna headquarters, is irreplaceable.
The President: I now give the floor to Her Excellency 
Mrs.  Retno  Lestari  Priansari  Marsudi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia.
Mrs.  Marsudi  (Indonesia):  Much  has  changed 
since  the  adoption  and  review  of  the  United  Nations 
Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Persons.  Indonesia  calls  for  enhancing  global  efforts 
to  curb  trafficking  in  persons,  which  is  contrary  to 
global efforts to achieve a decent life and is an obstacle 
in our quest for a global ecosystem of peace, stability 
and prosperity.
Some 21 million people are victims of forced labour 
and trafficking globally, and therefore we cannot stay 
silent but must redouble our collective efforts. Through 
partnership  and  cooperation,  countries  of  origin  and 
transit  and  destination  countries  must  work  together 
more  closely.  For  its  part,  Indonesia  fully  adheres  to 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime and its Protocol to Prevent, Suppress 
and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women 
and Children. Indonesia’s national task force to combat 
trafficking  in  persons  continues  to  prevent  crimes, 
prosecute  perpetrators  and  protect  victims.  We  apply 
effective  measures,  including  increasing  the  capacity 
of  consular  officers  as  first  responders,  creating  an 
e-protection platform to strengthen and integrate data 
collection, implementing a follow-the-money method to 
help the prosecution process and provide compensation 
to victims, and establishing safe houses for victims.
regional  and 
Indonesia  takes  a  leading  role  in  promoting 
bilateral, 
international  cooperation, 
among  other  things,  through  promoting  the  Treaty 
on  Mutual  Legal  Assistance  in  Criminal  Matters,  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  Convention 
10/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
against Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and 
Children,  and  the  Bali  Process  on  People  Smuggling, 
Trafficking  in  Persons  and  Related  Transnational 
Crime. The Bali Process has proved its effectiveness in 
addressing the illegal movement of persons in the Bay 
of Bengal and the Andaman Sea in 2015.
The  Government  alone  cannot  solve  the  problem. 
Engaging  with  the  private  sector  is  a  necessity. 
Accordingly,  the  Bali  Process  successfully  conducted 
a Government business forum in August as an avenue 
for  engagement  between  Government  and  business  in 
curbing  trafficking.  During  the  meeting,  participants 
agreed  on  an  action-oriented  work  plan.  Indonesia  is 
also  looking  forward  to  progress  in  the  negotiation 
on 
the  United  Nations  global  compact  on  safe, 
orderly  and  regular  migration  and  will  contribute  to 
its implementation.
Finally,  let  me  touch  upon  the  humanitarian 
situation in Rakhine state and its impact on Bangladesh. 
As the number of refugees increases, we must prepare 
anticipatory measures to ensure the welfare and safety 
of  the  refugees  in  order  to  prevent  their  exploitation 
by  traffickers.  We  cannot  let  that  crisis  lead  to 
another disaster.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Dato Sri Anifah Aman, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of Malaysia.
the 
joins 
international  community 
Mr.  Aman  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  commend 
this  meeting. 
you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening 
Malaysia 
in 
addressing the scourge of human trafficking. Malaysia 
condemns these heinous crimes and accords the highest 
priority in combating trafficking in persons. Malaysia 
is  not  only  a  transit  and  destination  country  for  the 
victims of trafficking in persons; its citizens have also 
become targets.
regarding 
trafficking 
laws,  particularly 
That  is  why  Malaysia  has  instituted  appropriate 
national 
the  penal 
code,  through  its  promulgation  in  2007  of  acts  on 
combating 
in  persons  and  smuggling 
migrants.  As  a  result,  the  number  of  convictions  has 
substantially increased. In 2007 we also established an 
inter-ministerial council for anti-trafficking in persons 
and anti-smuggling of migrants, chaired by our Deputy 
Prime  Minister.  Malaysia’s  efforts  have  also  been 
guided  by  a  national  action  plan  on  anti-trafficking 
in persons for the period from 2016 to 2020, which is 
consistent with the 2010 Global Plan of Action.
this 
transnational  crime. 
Our  records  show  that  the  majority  of  human 
trafficking victims come from neighbouring countries. 
In  that  regard,  Malaysia  places  a  high  premium  on 
the  centrality  of  bilateral  and  regional  cooperation 
in  combating 
Indeed, 
on  7  September  2017,  Malaysia  ratified  the  2015 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  Convention 
Against Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and 
Children. Malaysia is also an active member of the Bali 
Process  on  People  Smuggling,  Trafficking  in  Persons 
and Related Transnational Crime, a mechanism aimed 
at combating this scourge.
Based  on  the  measures  it  has  put  in  place, 
Malaysia  is  determined  to  prosecute  perpetrators 
and  provide  protections  to  the  victims.  We  believe 
in  a  comprehensive  approach,  with  greater  emphasis 
on  prevention  and  with  a  particular  focus  on  the  root 
causes endemic to source countries.
Given  the  unspeakable  developments  in  Rakhine 
state, Malaysia is concerned that the more than 400,000 
Rohingya  currently  seeking  refuge  in  Bangladesh 
could  become  victims  of  human  trafficking.  The 
transnational  crime  syndicates  are  already  exploiting 
the human misery stemming from this sordid situation. 
Malaysia therefore strongly urges Myanmar to heed the 
repeated  calls  of  the  international  community  to  end 
the violence against the Rohingya.
The  solution  to  the  complex  issue  of  trafficking 
in  persons  requires  collective  efforts  by  both  State 
and  non-State  actors.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  is 
of the view that the measures outlined in the political 
declaration  on  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons (resolution 72/1) serve as an excellent basis 
for  navigating  the  way  forward.  Malaysia  pledges  its 
unwavering  commitment  to  decisive  action  in  our 
common and urgent quest to rid ourselves of the scourge 
of trafficking in persons. For the sake of humankind, 
we have no choice but to prevail.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr.  Saleh  (Eritrea):  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Eritrea,  who,  for  the 
past  half  a  century,  have  been  resolutely  fighting  for 
human dignity and regional stability. We have been at 
17-30134
11/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
the  forefront  of  the  struggle  to  combat  and  eradicate 
human trafficking in all its manifestations.
Eritrea welcomes the convening of this high-level 
meeting to appraise the implementation of the United 
Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons. Periodic reviews could provide Member States 
with the opportunity to evaluate the progress made and 
deliberate  on  the  challenges  of  the  implementation  of 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action.  However,  without  focused 
international  cooperation  to  eradicate  the  causes  of 
human trafficking — extreme poverty, global inequality, 
the  vulnerability  of  irregular  migrants,  conflicts  and 
wars  of  aggression,  sexual  exploitation,  cheap  labour 
and organ harvesting — our next appraisal could be a 
discussion of gaps and not progress.
The  interrelated  crimes  of  human  trafficking  and 
the smuggling of migrants are posing grave challenges 
to the security and development of the Horn of Africa. 
Many  people,  especially  younger  members  of  the 
population, continue to fall victim to criminal groups 
as  they  attempt  to  migrate  to  Europe  and  the  Gulf 
countries.  They  face  abduction,  extortion,  gender-
related  violence,  torture  and  death.  The  dearth  of 
regional understanding and robust cooperation among 
countries  of  origin  and  countries  of  destination  has, 
until  recently,  meant  impunity  for  traffickers  and 
smugglers.  Moreover,  in  the  case  of  Eritrean  victims, 
overwhelming evidence exists regarding the complicity 
of some Governments and organizations in the region 
and  beyond.  These  Governments  and  organizations 
involved  in  the  smuggling  of  Eritreans  are  exploiting 
them  as  part  of 
their  sensationalist  propaganda 
campaign  to  demonize  our  nation  and  encourage  our 
young people to flee and thereby weaken the country.
The  Eritrean  Government  has  for  years  called 
for  an  independent  international  body  to  investigate 
human trafficking in the Horn of Africa with the aim of 
bringing those responsible to justice. Eritrea’s repeated 
requests  for  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Security 
Council  to  initiate  such  an  investigation  have  gone 
unheeded. Many of those responsible for the trafficking 
of  Eritreans  continue  to  live  in  European  countries 
and conduct their criminal activities with money they 
raise  in  the  guise  of  supporting  victims.  The  recent 
declaration  by  Italian  authorities  on  the  collusion 
between  human  traffickers  and  individuals  ostensibly 
dedicated  to  rescuing  migrants  in  the  Mediterranean 
Sea is a testament to this fact. The Italian authorities 
are  investigating  a  person  whose  involvement  in  the 
smuggling  of  Eritrean  migrants  and  his  relationship 
with  human  traffickers  in  East  and  North  Africa  has 
been known by the Eritrean Government for years.
More international effort is needed to ensure that 
no case of human trafficking ever goes unprosecuted. 
Every  individual  involved  in  the  heinous  crime  of 
human trafficking must be held accountable under the 
law and face punishment.
I would like to assure the Assembly that the people 
and the Government of Eritrea will steadfastly continue 
their  fight  against  human  trafficking  and  smuggling 
and  expose  sponsors  of  these  activities.  Eritrea  will 
continue  to  work  with  the  countries  of  the  region 
bilaterally  and  as  part  of  the  African  Union-Horn  of 
Africa  Initiative  on  human  trafficking  and  migrant 
smuggling, as well as with European countries, in order 
to eliminate this crime.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Michael  Masutha,  Minister  of  Justice 
and Correctional Services of South Africa.
Mr.  Masutha  (South  Africa):  We  thank  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  convening  this  high-level  meeting, 
which  is  an  important  milestone  in  assessing  the 
progress of our efforts to fight the crime of trafficking 
in  persons,  pursuant  to  the  obligations  we  undertook 
to that end under the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Person.
We  also  wish  to  congratulate  Member  States  on 
adopting the political declaration on the implementation 
of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 72/1). We feel that this 
important  document  strongly  reaffirms  our  collective 
will to eradicate the crime of trafficking in persons.
Trafficking in persons has rapidly spiralled into a 
global crisis, affecting each and every country, whether 
they  are  countries  of  origin,  transit  or  destination  for 
victims. South Africa is no exception in this regard, and 
our  law  enforcement  and  criminal  justice  system  are 
engaged in an ongoing fight against this terrible crime.
I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  General  Assembly 
that  we  have  recorded  numerous  successes  in  this 
fight,  having  disrupted  several  significant  syndicates 
and  successfully  arrested,  convicted  and  imprisoned 
perpetrators  of  this  crime.  We  also  continue  to 
provide assistance and support to victims, in line with 
international best practices in this regard.
12/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
Since  the  advent  of  democracy,  South  Africa 
has  made  significant  strides  in  the  development  of 
legislation to protect the rights of vulnerable persons, 
including the victims of trafficking in persons. Whereas 
offences  linked  to  the  trafficking  in  persons  were 
previously dealt with by various pieces of legislation, 
such  as  the  Sexual  Offences  Act  of  2007  and  the 
Children’s Act of 2005, they have now been harmonized 
and  brought  together  under  a  single,  comprehensive 
statute, the Prevention and Combating of Trafficking in 
Persons Act. This important legal framework provides 
a comprehensive and integrated instrument to combat 
trafficking in persons in all its forms.
in  persons 
is  broadly  defined 
The Act ensures that in South Africa, the offence 
of 
trafficking 
to 
include different forms of the crime, including labour 
trafficking.  It  also  provides  for  the  imposition  of 
appropriate sentences for these crimes and for various 
measures  to  protect  and  assist  victims  of  trafficking 
in  persons.  The  Act,  which  is  centred  on  prevention, 
protection  and  prosecution,  is  also  closely  aligned 
with  South  Africa’s  international  obligations  and 
commitments, particularly with respect to the Protocol 
to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children,  supplementing  the 
United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime.
in  persons, 
In  ensuring  nationwide  implementation  of  our 
policies  on  trafficking  in  persons,  the  South  African 
Government  has  established  a  national  inter-sectoral 
committee  on 
the  prevention  and  combating  of 
trafficking 
consisting  of  national 
representatives  of  all  relevant  stakeholders,  including 
civil  society,  faith-based  organizations,  traditional 
leaders  and  others.  These  coordinating  structures, 
known as trafficking-in-persons provincial task teams, 
are replicated throughout all of our nine provinces and 
work closely with relevant international organizations.
We recognize that the achievement of our objectives 
in  eradicating  trafficking  in  persons  can  be  realized 
only through close cooperation and collaboration with 
our  international  partners.  The  transnational  nature 
of  trafficking  necessitates  cooperation  and  mutual 
assistance  with  other  countries  and 
international 
organizations,  whose  expertise  on  such  matters 
is invaluable.
We  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  support  and 
cooperation  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs 
and  Crime  (UNODC),  the  International  Organization 
for  Migration  (IOM)  and  UNICEF,  in  particular,  in 
assisting  us  to  implement  our  strategies  to  combat 
this  crime.  With  their  cooperation,  the  South  African 
Government has developed a joint implementation plan 
within the framework of the Global Action to Prevent 
and Address Trafficking in Persons and the Smuggling 
of Migrants, which is a four-year joint initiative by the 
European Union and UNODC that is being implemented 
in partnership with the IOM and UNICEF.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  of 
South Africa, I would like to reaffirm our unwavering 
commitment to continuing the fight against trafficking 
in persons in all of its manifestations, working hand in 
hand with the international community.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Issa  bin  Saad  Al-Jafali  Al-Nuaimi, 
Minister  of  Administrative  Development,  Labour  and 
Social Affairs of Qatar.
Mr. Al-Nuaimi (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of  my 
delegation, I am pleased and honoured, Mr. President, to 
address you and the General Assembly on the occasion 
of this high-level meeting on the appraisal of the Global 
Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons.
We are pleased today to witness the official adoption 
of  the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution  72/1),  to  which 
Qatar, in partnership with Belgium, has contributed by 
facilitating the negotiations on it. The Declaration was 
agreed upon thanks to the Member States’ political will 
to take concerted and decisive action to implement the 
Plan of Action and put an end to the heinous crime of 
trafficking in persons, wherever it is committed.
Combating the phenomenon of trafficking in human 
beings  requires  addressing  the  real  causes  leading 
to  it,  whether  social,  economic,  cultural,  political  or 
ideological,  or  because  of  the  absence  of  the  rule  of 
law or any other reason. The international community’s 
inability  to  bring  decisive  and  just  settlements  to 
conflicts and the resulting terrorism and emergence of 
armed  organizations  operating  outside  the  framework 
of  the  international  law  are  unquestionably  major 
contributors to the growing phenomenon of trafficking 
in  human  beings,  which  violates  the  fundamental 
rights of individuals and entire peoples alike. In fact, 
17-30134
13/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
crises and conflicts create a propitious environment for 
traffickers to commit crimes of human trafficking.
At the national level, the State of Qatar has taken 
many legislative measures, including the enactment of 
Law No. 15 of 2011 on combating human trafficking, 
which  criminalizes  trafficking  in  persons  in  all  its 
forms and types, Law No. 21 of 2015, which abolished 
the kafala or labour sponsorship system, and Law No. 
15 of 2017, on domestic workers.
At 
the 
level, 
institutional 
the  Government 
established  the  National  Committee  on  Combating 
Human  Trafficking  to  consolidate  the  efforts  of  the 
State institutions and civil society aimed at addressing 
the  problem  of  trafficking  in  human  beings.  To  that 
end,  the  Committee  aims  to  develop  a  national  plan 
to  combat  human  trafficking  and  follow  up  on  its 
implementation,  as  well  as  programmes  that  provide 
care  and  rehabilitation  for  victims  of  trafficking  and 
assist in their rapid integration into society. In addition, 
the  National  Committee  on  Combating  Human 
Trafficking, together with INTERPOL, is coordinating 
the convening of the annual conference on combating 
human trafficking and smuggling of persons, to be held 
in Doha in December.
At  the  regional  level,  the  State  of  Qatar  has  been 
sponsoring  the  Arab  Initiative  to  Build  National 
Capacities to Combat Human Trafficking in the Arab 
Countries,  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and the League 
of Arab States. It aims to build and rehabilitate national 
capacities  in  various  areas  of  combating  human 
trafficking  in  the  Arab  region,  using  scientific  and 
professional methods.
At the international level, as part of its firm belief 
in  the  importance  of  preserving  human  dignity  and 
fulfilling  our  moral  and  legal  obligations,  and  as  an 
active member of the Group of Friends United against 
Human  Trafficking  and  the  Group  of  Friends  to  End 
Modern Slavery, the State of Qatar has spared no effort 
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
to combat trafficking in human beings and the related 
issues of forced labour, modern slavery and child labour.
My country has supported the Global Plan of Action 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  since  its  adoption. 
The State of Qatar has been a major donor to the United 
Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking 
in  persons,  especially  women  and  children,  since  its 
inception. In 2005, the State hosted the thirteenth United 
Nations  Congress  on  Crime  Prevention  and  Criminal 
Justice,  which  adopted  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
addressing the crime of trafficking in human beings, as 
set forth in the Doha Declaration. The State of Qatar is 
also a major supporter of UNODC, which is the leading 
international authority on combating human trafficking.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the State 
of Qatar attaches great importance to the fight against 
human  trafficking  at  the  legislative,  institutional, 
public awareness and international cooperation levels. 
We  will  spare  no  effort  in  contributing  actively  in 
support of regional and international efforts to combat 
human trafficking.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
Excellency Ms. Priscah Mupfumira, Minister of Public 
Service, Labour and Social Welfare of Zimbabwe.
Ms.  Mupfumira  (Zimbabwe):  Trafficking 
in 
persons  is  a  heinous  crime  that  has  been  described 
as  a  modern-day  form  of  slavery  affecting  millions 
of men, women and children worldwide. It is good to 
note  that  issues  of  human  trafficking  have  become 
global concerns requiring global solutions. Like other 
countries in sub-Saharan Africa, Zimbabwe is a source, 
transit  and  destination  country  for  men,  women  and 
children  who  are  being  subjected  to  various  forms  of 
abuse, including sexual abuse, domestic servitude and 
forced labour.
In  2007,  Zimbabwe  ratified  the  United  Nations 
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and 
acceded to the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish 
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children. 
In 2014, Zimbabwe enacted a trafficking-in-persons law, 
which criminalized human trafficking in our country. To 
demonstrate its commitment to countering trafficking 
in  persons,  Zimbabwe  enacted  a  statutory  instrument 
establishing 
inter-ministerial 
committee. In 2016, we launched our first national plan 
of  action,  for  the  period  from  2016  to  2018,  which  is 
the implementation tool and national response strategy 
for the trafficking-in-persons act. The plan of action is 
anchored on four pillars of intervention — prevention, 
protection, prosecution and partnership coordination.
anti-trafficking 
an 
The prevention of trafficking in persons falls within 
the mandate of the Ministry of Media, Information and 
Broadcasting Services, in partnership with the Ministry 
of Home Affairs. These ministries are responsible for 
raising  public  awareness  and  building  the  capacity  of 
relevant stakeholders. The protection pillar falls under 
14/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
my  ministry,  the  Ministry  of  Public  Service,  Labour 
and  Social  Welfare,  which  is  charged  with  providing 
protection  services  to  survivors  of  human  trafficking 
by offering appropriate shelter for safety, counselling, 
rehabilitation 
support.  The 
prosecution pillar is the responsibility of the Ministry 
of  Home  Affairs  and  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  which 
investigate  and  prosecute  cases  of  human  trafficking, 
respectively.
reintegration 
and 
Partnership  and  coordination  are  important  for 
pulling  efforts  and  resources  together  in  order  to 
prevent trafficking. The issue of human trafficking has 
attracted considerable national attention in Zimbabwe, 
and efforts are being channelled in order to combat it. 
The country has held two successful commemorations 
of the World Day against Trafficking in Persons.
Since  April  2016,  under  the  protection  pillar,  the 
Government of Zimbabwe has repatriated 138 victims 
of  human  trafficking.  Special  arrangements  were 
made to receive and move victims upon their arrival to 
places of safety without unnecessary media attention, 
in order to protect their privacy. At reception centres, 
medical,  psychosocial  and  other  support  services  are 
provided to the victims. The Government continues to 
support the returnees through ongoing social protection 
programmes, 
to  free  education, 
medical  assistance,  cash  transfers  and  other  public-
assistance programmes.
including  access 
Under  the  partnership  pillar,  the  Government 
is  working  with  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  to  establish  income-generating  projects 
for  victims.  Zimbabwe  is  ready  and  willing  to  share 
and  learn  from  others  with  greater  experience  than 
ours  in  dealing  with  the  challenges  associated  with 
human trafficking.
Migration is a reality that we all have to face, which 
is why global solutions and collective commitments are 
needed.  Hopefully,  the  Global  Compact  on  Migration 
will deliver us from the scourge of human trafficking. 
The international community can count on Zimbabwe’s 
continued support in efforts aimed at combating human 
trafficking and its associated evils.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alexis  Bethancourt  Yau,  Minister  for 
Public Security of Panama.
Mr. Bethancourt Yau (Panama): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  members  of  the  Human 
Security Network, a cross-regional network consisting 
of Austria, Chile, Costa Rica, Greece, Ireland, Jordan, 
Mali, Norway, Slovenia, Switzerland, Thailand, South 
Africa  as  an  observer,  and  my  own  country,  Panama. 
The Human Security Network is an informal group of 
States that advocates a people-centred, holistic approach 
to  security,  complementing 
traditional 
understanding of national and international security.
the  more 
Human 
impairs 
trafficking  violates  and 
the 
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms 
and constitutes a crime that exploits persons, enslaving 
them  in  forced  labour,  domestic  servitude  or  sexual 
exploitation, among other things. In our interconnected 
world, this serious challenge to humankind is ongoing, 
and we must address its impact on all persons, especially 
women and children.
The  Network  recognizes  the  importance  that 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  attach  to 
developing  policies,  programmes  and  strategies  to 
prevent  and  combat  trafficking  in  persons,  including 
its  incorporation  of  fighting  this  threat  into  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the concerted 
implementation of the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons.  We  therefore  welcome  the 
convening  of  today’s  high-level  meeting,  as  well 
as  the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration  on  the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  (resolution 
72/1), which will serve as a foundation for our common 
action  to  end  this  crime  wherever  it  may  occur.  In 
this  regard,  the  Network  underlines  the  importance 
of  the  universal  ratification  and  implementation  of 
international  legally  binding  instruments  to  address 
this  crime,  including  the  United  Nations  Convention 
against  Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
the 
Protocol to Prevent, Suppress, and Punish Trafficking 
in Persons, Especially Women and Children.
trafficking 
to  highlight 
We  also  want 
the  value-added 
contribution  of  the  Human  Security  approach  in 
combating  trafficking  in  persons.  The  holistic  and 
contextual  nature  of  the  Human  Security  approach 
is  well  placed  to  address  the  disproportionate  impact 
of 
in  persons  on  vulnerable  groups, 
particularly women and children. This approach, which 
places humans at the centre of all considerations, is also 
conducive to promoting partnership, coordination and 
coherence in the efforts we undertake. Accordingly, we 
welcome  the  work  of  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination 
Group  against  Trafficking  in  Persons,  which  has  the 
17-30134
15/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) 
as its coordinator.
Given  the  meagre  global  resources  available  to 
fight  trafficking  in  persons,  we  also  support  and 
urge  other  Member  States  to  contribute  to  the  United 
Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking 
in persons, especially women and children, established 
under the Global Plan of Action and the United Nations 
Trust  Fund  for  Human  Security,  which  could  provide 
support for projects that combat trafficking in persons. 
We remain deeply concerned by the threat posed by this 
serious crime, which is affecting international security 
and constitutes a global challenge.
(spoke in Spanish)
I  would  now  like  to  address  the  topic  of  my 
country’s national capacities in this area.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama,  over  which  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Carlos 
Varela  Rodríguez  presides,  it  is  my  pleasure  to  take 
this opportunity to share a few words in my capacity as 
Minister of Security, Chair of the National Commission 
against Trafficking in Persons in Panama, member of 
the regional coalition against trafficking in persons and 
member of the Board of Trustees of the voluntary trust 
fund for victims of trafficking in persons.
For  President  Juan  Carlos  Varela  Rodríguez’s 
Administration, preventing and combating trafficking 
in  persons  is  a  priority  within  our  citizen-security 
strategy, which is aimed at ensuring human rights and 
protecting  Panama’s  platform  of  world-class  services 
and connectivity from organized crime, with a view to 
ensuring that it is not used for illegal activities. Based 
on  our  awareness  of  the  great  responsibility  we  had 
undertaken as the State of Panama and our compliance, 
since  the  first  month  of  its  implementation,  with 
the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Persons, adopted in 2010, we have made some important 
achievements, 
including  dismantling  15  networks 
used in trafficking in persons, prosecuting traffickers 
by  opening  more  than  10  cases  and  completing  three 
of  them,  yielding  three  guilty  verdicts,  and  rescuing 
more  than  150  victims  from  the  scourge  between 
2015 and 2017. Those operational results are the fruit 
of  an  array  of  concrete  actions  aimed  at  preventing 
trafficking, 
protecting 
victims  and  the  establishing  alliances  to  mobilize 
cooperative resources.
prosecuting 
traffickers, 
At the institutional, technical and legal levels, we 
have established a national anti-trafficking commission 
made up of 16 public-sector entities and representatives 
of the private sector and international organizations. In 
addition, we are enforcing our Law No. 79 of 2011 against 
trafficking in persons and other related activities.
In October, we will hold a meeting of our National 
Commission in order to adopt the matrix of intervention 
modalities  set  forth  in  the  national  plan  against 
trafficking  in  persons  for  the  five-year  period  from 
2017 to 2022, which includes five strategic approaches 
and  courses  of  action,  as  well  as  goals,  management 
guidelines  and  the  creation  of  an  entity  responsible 
for their implementation. The Commission has been a 
major driving force in a nationwide awareness-raising 
campaign  mirroring  the  United  Nations  Blue  Heart 
Campaign against Human Trafficking, including such 
activities  as  the  recent  large-scale  anti-trafficking 
campaign that brought together more than 2,000 people 
in  one  of  the  main  streets  of  the  country  so  that  the 
scourge could be known to all for the crime that it is.
During the past several months, in order to strengthen 
national prevention efforts, we have organized official 
academic activities and events at the national level as 
well  as  radio  and  television  spots  designed  to  raise 
public  awareness  and  to  promote  participation  and 
awareness  of  civil  servants  and  civil  society  with  a 
view to preventing and combating trafficking. We have 
carried  out  these  activities  with  the  support  of  two 
international organizations that I would like to take this 
opportunity  to  thank,  the  International  Organization 
for Migration and the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and Crime. We hope to continue working together with 
those entities and with all other relevant organizations 
that wish to join in this effort.
trafficking 
Through  its  activities  as  Chair  of  the  regional 
coalition  against 
in  persons  and  as 
Vice-Chair  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  United 
Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of trafficking 
in persons, Panama remains very active, together with 
the  Chair  of  the  Board,  Ms.  Benita  Ferrero-Waldner, 
and its other members, in combating human trafficking 
at  the  regional  and  international  levels.  I  take  this 
opportunity to call on all representatives to share with 
their respective Governments the need to contribute to 
the trust fund, the goals of which include carrying out 
activities in tandem with UNODC aimed at supporting 
the victims of trafficking.
16/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
Accordingly,  as  Vice-Chair  of  the  trust  fund, 
Panama wants to set an example, so I am proud to say that 
we have already approved a transfer of funds. Further, 
working closely with UNODC, we are currently in the 
process of building a shelter for trafficking victims that 
will be the first of its kind in the region.
On  behalf  of  the  Ministry  of  Security  and  the 
Government  of  Panama,  we  urgently  call  on  Member 
States  to  participate  actively  in  the  panel  discussions 
we have planned so that together we can find the best 
tools  to  help  us  combat  and  eradicate  trafficking  in 
persons and fight transnational crime.
The President: Before giving the floor to the next 
speaker,  may  I  once  again  appeal  to  all  speakers  for 
their  cooperation  in  observing  the  time  limit  of  their 
statements so that all those inscribed on the list will be 
heard in a timely manner.
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Emmanuel 
Ngoie Kasongo Ilunga, Minister in Charge of Congolese 
Nationals  Abroad  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo.
Mr.  Ilunga  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo) 
(spoke in French): At a time when Africa and the rest 
of  the  world  are  facing  an  acute  migrant  crisis  that 
denies  humankind  the  right  to  peace,  I  would  like  to 
thank Secretary-General António Guterres for the very 
timely  initiative  of  including  this  agenda  item  on  the 
sidelines of the opening of the seventy-second session 
of the General Assembly.
It  is  a  topic  of  great  interest  to  my  country,  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. My participation in 
the  work  here  reaffirms  the  firm  commitment  of  the 
President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, His 
Excellency Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, to contributing 
to international peace and security, without which the 
world is at risk of unravelling at the societal level. As 
everyone  knows,  slavery  and  trafficking  in  persons 
are cross-cutting social issues that lead to transborder 
violations that systematically infringe on international 
human rights agreements and put us in situations that 
often  force  States  and  international  organizations  to 
expend tremendous efforts to eradicate them.
Like the countries of North Africa and the Middle 
East, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is becoming 
a destination and transit country for men, women and 
children who are victims of trafficking in persons and 
the  smuggling  of  migrants.  According  to  the  report 
presented  by  the  National  Assembly  at  its  ordinary 
session in 2013, more than 400 young Congolese girls 
had been sold as sex slaves. This is relevant to the mission 
in the Middle East in August that I personally carried 
out with the support of the International Organization 
for Migration upon instructions from my Head of State, 
which was aimed at repatriating seven Congolese girls 
who had been subjected to forced domestic labour and 
other  inhumane  practices,  as  well  as  being  abused  as 
sex slaves.
In  that  regard,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  joined  the  fight  to  eradicate  trafficking  in  all 
its  forms  by  using  the  legal  system  to  punish  all  acts 
involving  the  forced  labour  of  children  and  women 
as well as all forms of sexual abuse. The Government 
was  called  on  to  consider  these  scourges  thoroughly 
by organizing a conference, to be held in Kinshasa on 
12  and  13  October,  on  trafficking  in  persons  and  the 
smuggling of migrants, with the goal of establishing a 
permanent mechanism to combat these two scourges.
Sexual  violence  is  yet  another  scourge.  In  that 
regard, a collection of military justice decisions dating 
from 2010 to 2015 has been compiled in the Journal of 
Decisions of the Military High Court, which has shown 
that cases of sexual violence in our country decreased 
by 85 per cent in this period, during which a framework 
for  providing  victims  with  reparations  was  created. 
Preventive measures and ways of providing assistance 
to victims have also been recommended. It is clear  that 
the work of the Government of the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  to  restore  peace  and  tranquillity  in  the 
eastern part of our country is in line with efforts being 
made by international organizations to end the cycle of 
wars and the presence of armed groups in that part of 
our national territory, resulting from the exploitation of 
resources that has fuelled the misdeeds condemned by 
the international community.
In  conclusion,  my  Government  requests  expertise 
and  support  from  all  parties  committed  to  combating 
the  scourge  of  human  trafficking,  with  a  view  to 
helping us implement the recommendations adopted at 
today’s meeting, as well as the provisions of the United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Naela  Gabr  Mohamed  Gabr,  State 
Minister,  President  of 
the  National  Coordination 
Committee  on  Migration  and  Combating  Human 
17-30134
17/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
Trafficking of Egypt, who will speak on behalf of the 
Group of Friends United Against Human Trafficking.
efforts to tackle these root causes in order to put an end 
to this heinous crime.
Ms.  Gabr  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
today  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Friends  United 
against Human Trafficking, which comprises Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia, Ecuador, Eritrea, India, 
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic,  Libya,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  the  Philippines, 
Qatar,  the  Russian  Federation,  Singapore,  Tajikistan, 
Turkmenistan, the United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela and my own country, Egypt.
We  welcome  the  convening  of  this  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  review  of 
the  achievements  made  in  implementing  the  Global 
Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. The 
Group also commends today’s adoption of the political 
declaration  on  the  topic  (resolution  72/1).  In  this 
regard, we would like to express our appreciation to the 
facilitators, His Excellency the Ambassador of Belgium 
and  Her  Excellency  the  Ambassador  of  Qatar,  who 
demonstrated great political acumen in their conduct of 
the complex discussions in the negotiations. We thank 
them  for  their  efforts  and  leadership  throughout  the 
drafting process. We also thank all Member States for 
their valuable contributions to reaching an agreement 
on the text of the political declaration. It is worthwhile 
mentioning in this context that the Declaration appears 
to  be  the  first  comprehensive  political  document  on 
human trafficking to be adopted by the United Nations 
since the Global Plan of Action.
The Group would like to reiterate its support for the 
political declaration, which it considers a crucial element 
in our collective response to the multidimensional issue 
of  trafficking  in  persons.  We  also  welcome  the  fact 
that the Declaration is a meaningful supplement to the 
Global Plan of Action in that it outlines ways of further 
bringing together international efforts aimed at curbing 
human trafficking.
There  is,  however,  no  room  for  complacency. 
Poverty  and  inequality  within  and  among  countries 
are  the  root  causes  that  make  people  vulnerable 
to 
trafficking.  Combating  poverty  and  reducing 
inequality are the essence of development efforts. The 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  —  which 
gave rise, among other things, to the three Sustainable 
Development Goals on human trafficking, 5.2, 8.7 and 
16.2 — is a clear reminder of the need to scale up our 
Needless  to  say,  the  international  community 
must come up with a better, more just, more equitable 
and  more  comprehensive  response  if  it  is  to  defeat 
this  scourge.  We  must  ensure  that  the  issue  of 
human  trafficking  continues  to  be  the  subject  of  the 
international community’s acute focus and engagement. 
For  its  part,  the  Group  of  Friends  is  committed  to 
working with each other and with partners around the 
world. We recognize the important role played by the 
Inter-Agency  Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  together  with  the  United  Nations  Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime,  in  this  process,  and  support  an 
expansion of its activities related, among other things, 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action. 
We invite all stakeholders to take an active part in the 
forthcoming appraisal of the Global Plan of Action to 
Combat Trafficking in Persons and make contributions 
to the United Nations voluntary trust fund for victims of 
trafficking in persons, especially women and children.
The  Group  of  Friends  believes  that  the  political 
declaration  and  today’s  high-level  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  will  be  an  important  step  forward 
in  addressing  the  global  challenge  of  trafficking 
in persons.
(spoke in Arabic)
I  shall  now  speak  in  my  national  capacity  as  the 
representative of Egypt.
In  2007,  Egypt  was  among  the  first  countries  to 
adopt  a  national  mechanism  to  coordinate  actions 
among various entities established to combat the crime 
of human trafficking. This step was followed by field 
research  on  the  most  common  forms  of  trafficking 
in  Egypt.  Later,  in  2010,  we  enacted  Law  No.  64,  on 
prosecuting  traffickers  and  protecting  victims.  Since 
then,  we  have  adopted  a  national  strategy  based  on 
four pillars — prevention, protection, prosecution and 
partnership — and we remain eager to implement the 
United Nations Global Plan of Action. To that end, we 
have set up a national action plan based on the following 
lines of action.
The first is the effective enforcement of Law No. 
64  of  2010  through  the  training  of  officials  in  the 
justice system, whether arresting officers, investigators 
or  members  of  the  judiciary,  by  organizing  intensive 
courses for them.
18/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
The  second  is  raising  the  awareness  of  relevant 
stakeholders, 
non-governmental 
organizations, social workers, teachers, among others, 
in prevention and protection processes.
especially 
The third is sponsoring a national media campaign 
addressed  to  the  most  vulnerable  sectors,  focusing 
on  the  areas  in  the  different  governorates,  especially 
villages, where human trafficking is active.
The  fourth 
is  promoting  a  victim-protection 
mechanism, establishing foster homes for women and 
children and taking regulated measures to establish a 
fund for the protection of victims and witnesses.
The  fifth  is  accelerating  the  implementation  of 
development programmes and plans in slums and other 
low-income areas.
The sixth is stressing the interconnections between 
combating  human  trafficking  and  fighting  illegal 
migration. The relationship between combating human 
trafficking and illegal migration is worth highlighting 
because illegal migrants are prone to abuse.
is 
respecting 
the  human 
The  eighth 
The seventh is activating regional cooperation as a 
foundation for information exchange and discovering the 
practices that work best in the Arab or African context.
rights 
dimension, which must be stressed at all stages and in 
all activities undertaken to counter human trafficking. 
The  rights  of  victims  and  witnesses  are  respected 
through activities coordinated with the United Nations 
Human Rights Council, the Egyptian National Council 
for  Women  and  the  Egyptian  National  Council  for 
Childhood and Motherhood.
involves 
international 
cooperation  with  United  Nations  organs  and  agencies 
to  make  the  best  use  of  the  technical  and  practical 
lessons learned.
The  ninth 
facilitating 
The  tenth  is  cooperating  with  non-governmental 
to  raise 
organizations,  especially 
awareness  of  the  danger  of  human  trafficking  in  our 
governorates  while  underlining  the  importance  of 
reporting  criminals  and  highlighting  the  mechanisms 
designed to protect witnesses.
those  working 
I  will  briefly  touch  on  some  of  the  achievements 
made  from  2013  to  the  present.  In  October  2016,  we 
launched  a  national  strategy  to  prevent  and  combat 
human  trafficking,  which  included  a  five-year  plan 
of action drafted with the assistance of many national 
institutions and non-governmental organizations. These 
entities  also  have  also  helped  in  the  implementation 
process  through  activities  that  raise  awareness  and 
provide assistance, for example, to households headed by 
women. We have established three specialized criminal 
chambers  within  appeals  courts  in  three  Egyptian 
governorates  in  order  to  ensure  rapid  judicial  process 
in  the  handling  of  cases.  We  have  also  established  a 
unit  to  counter  human  trafficking  and  have  worked 
with various entities, non-governmental organizations 
and the media.
Mr. Danon (Israel), Vice-President, took the Chair.
Also in 2016, we enacted Law No. 82 on combating 
illegal  migration  and  trafficking,  which  addresses  a 
number of very important points: it is the first law of its 
kind in the Middle East to define the term “smuggling 
of  migrants”.  It  also  promotes  deterrence  by  strictly 
punishing  perpetrators  and  combines  into  a  single 
committee two national committees, one on countering 
human trafficking and the other on illegal migration. I 
am honoured to preside over this combined committee, 
which  is  part  of  the  Cabinet.  We  have  also  adopted 
a  national  strategy  and  a  related  media  campaign 
designed  to  deter  the  merchants  of  death  and  provide 
protection to those at risk of being abused.
campaign 
is  being 
conducted 
Egypt  has  joined  the  Aware  Migrants  campaign 
organized  by  the  Italian  Ministry  of  Interior  together 
with  the  International  Organization  for  Migration. 
This 
three 
languages  —  English,  French  and  Arabic  —  in  line 
with  our  efforts  to  protect  migrants,  especially  those 
coming from Southern Africa. In cooperation with the 
Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs,  we  have  also  organized 
a  number  of  training  courses  on  human  trafficking 
for  African  diplomats,  peacekeepers  and  border-
protection personnel.
in 
In all regional and international forums, Egypt has 
declared its readiness to cooperate with all regional and 
international bodies in combating this crime by any and 
all means, in order to protect society while respecting 
the rights of the individual.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Carl  Greenidge,  Vice-President  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  Greenidge  (Guyana):  The  convening  of  this 
high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
appraisal of the United Nations Global Plan of Action to 
17-30134
19/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
Combat Trafficking in Persons comes at an important 
juncture in our work. It takes place at a time when human 
trafficking  is  the  world’s  most  profitable  criminal 
enterprise, a status it shares with arms trafficking. The 
Government  of  Guyana  expresses  its  solidarity  with 
victims and survivors of such crimes while committing 
to ensuring that all measures are taken nationally in the 
global fight against the trafficking in persons.
I wish to highlight Guyana’s recent elevation from 
a Tier 2 to a Tier 1 country, as reflected in the United 
States  Department  of  State  Trafficking  in  Persons 
Report 2017. We believe that this achievement is justified 
recognition of the tireless efforts of the Government of 
Guyana and its partners aimed at eliminating trafficking 
in persons in our country. While this elevation to a Tier 
1  country  is  a  welcome  achievement  for  Guyana,  we 
remain  cognizant  of  the  many  challenges  that  remain 
in addressing human trafficking, especially with regard 
to training and awareness, more efficient prosecutions 
and support for and referral of victims.
An extremely important aspect of any Government’s 
fight against human trafficking is its effort to prevent 
the crime from occurring in the first place. In Guyana 
we have embarked on a number of different initiatives 
through  the  pillars  of  prevention,  protection  and 
prosecution  in  an  effort  to  dissuade  prospective 
offenders from committing this crime. The Government 
of  Guyana  has  established  a  ministerial  task  force  on 
trafficking in persons that promotes the implementation 
of  a  number  of  measures  and  initiatives  to  combat 
human trafficking.
The  ministerial  task  force  has  so  far  conducted 
awareness-training for police prosecutors, immigration 
officials and media practitioners, especially those who 
report  on  crimes  involving  children.  In  addition,  the 
task force’s action sub-committee has also been active 
in 2017, as teams led by the Guyana Police Force and 
the Ministry of Social Protection conducted a number 
of  enforcement  sweeps  in  areas  where  the  crime  of 
trafficking  in  persons  was  suspected  to  be  taking 
place. In 2017, the task force also noted an increase in 
reports  from  Guyana’s  citizens,  which  suggests  that 
the  awareness  campaign  is  showing  some  measure  of 
success. The people’s increased awareness of their civic 
roles and responsibilities has been pivotal to the success 
achieved by the Government of Guyana in its efforts to 
eliminate this scourge.
Guyana’s  difficult 
terrain  presents  an  acute 
challenge  for  those  who  monitor  and  enforce  our 
porous  borders.  With  limited  capacity  to  effectively 
police the country’s more remote regions, the Guyana 
Police Force regularly engages in enforcement sweeps 
that  include  surveillance,  surprise  inspections  and 
establishment  raids,  and  in  raising  awareness  using 
various  communication  media 
remote 
communities, through schools and youth groups, both 
general and faith-based.
these 
in 
to 
take 
like 
We  would 
this  opportunity 
to 
acknowledge  the  important  collaboration  we  have 
with  our  many  non-governmental  organizations 
and  civil-society  partners  in  the  areas  of  victim  care 
and  assistance,  including  ensuring  that  identified 
victims  are  not  penalized  or  revictimized  for  having 
been trafficked.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate the Government 
to  collaborating  with 
of  Guyana’s  commitment 
stakeholders,  both  local  and  foreign,  to  combat  the 
crime  of  human  trafficking  in  Guyana  through  the 
pillars of prevention, protection and prosecution.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Erastus Uutoni, Vice-Minister for Home 
Affairs and Immigration of the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Uutoni  (Namibia):  In  September  2016,  at 
the  high-level  summit  to  address  large  movements 
of  refugees  and  migrants,  we  agreed  on  and  made  a 
declaration that contained provisions for the drafting of 
global compacts on safe, orderly and regular migration 
and on refugees.
This  high-level  meeting  on  the  appraisal  of  the 
United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons provides us with an opportunity 
to continue our exchange of views on the Plan of Action 
on  how  we  should  work  together  to  fight  the  scourge 
of human trafficking, which has become a worldwide 
problem tantamount to modern-day slavery.
One  of  the  reasons  that  trafficking  in  persons 
has  continued  to  grow  is  the  difficulty  of  combating 
it,  due  in  large  part  to  the  fact  that  it  is  a  concealed 
crime  in  which  victims  are  promised  better  lives  in 
their  destination  countries.  As  a  result,  even  cases 
where  law  enforcement  officials  suspect  the  presence 
of trafficking are rarely prosecuted because the victims 
often side with the perpetrators.
20/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
imbalance 
in 
The  unfortunate 
the  world’s 
economies  means  that  some  countries  are  targeted 
as  destinations  for  trafficked  persons  and  others  as 
sources  for  victims.  It  goes  without  saying  that  as 
long as there is a rich global North and a poor global 
South, traffickers will continue to take advantage of the 
need for labour in rich countries where the provisions 
of  labour  migration  laws  favour  highly  skilled  labour 
over  semi-skilled  personnel.  This  makes  it  difficult 
for  people  in  the  latter  category  to  migrate,  making 
it possible for some of them to be lured into modern-
day slavery. Furthermore, the strengthening of border 
controls by many nations, aided by the closure of some 
formal  channels  of  migration,  provides  the  perfect 
motive for greater use of irregular migration channels 
in which traffickers exploit vulnerable migrants.
The continued political unrest worldwide continues 
to  drive  millions  of  people  from  their  homes  to 
unknown  worlds  across 
international  boundaries. 
Some  undertake  dangerous  journeys,  crossing  deserts 
or braving the Mediterranean Sea in inadequate boats.
We in Namibia are also challenged by the scourge 
of  trafficking  in  persons,  with  some  suspects  being 
acquitted  due  to  lack  of  evidence.  So  far,  we  have 
secured  one  conviction,  in  2016,  while  other  cases 
remain  under  investigation.  Although  trafficking  in 
persons is currently criminalized under our Prevention 
of Organized Crime Act, efforts are under way to enact 
a law that deals specifically with trafficking in persons. 
In addition, manuals on the identification and treatment 
of  suspected  victims  and  victims  of  trafficking  have 
been  provided  to  immigration  officers  and  other  law 
enforcement officers. Joint training of border officials 
continues.  and  both  police  and  immigration  training 
curriculums are now geared to tackling that problem.
It is our belief that now is the time for the world to 
agree  on  workable  strategies.  The  time  has  come  for 
us to strengthen border controls in order to punish the 
offenders and protect the victims. The time has come 
for us to make lawful migration easy and prevent the 
creation of a market for traffickers. The time has come 
for world leaders to realize that if States create a better 
environment,  they  will  reduce  people’s  need  to  seek 
livelihoods elsewhere, and hence reduce the number of 
trafficking victims.
In  conclusion,  the  time  has  come  for  us  to  build 
the  capacity  of  officials  dealing  with  migration, 
provide shelter for the victims of trafficking, enhance 
cooperation between North and South, build bridges to 
facilitate migration instead of barriers and respect the 
human rights of migrants.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Andrei  Dapkiunas,  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Belarus.
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  I 
would like to know how the United Nations Global Plan 
of Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons and today’s 
meeting help to combat trafficking in persons. That is 
a  particularly  timely  question.  Imagine  for  a  moment 
that the people who are the victims of this modern slave 
trade are asking themselves that question and happen to 
have found out about today’s meeting here in New York. 
Would  those  people,  trapped  in  the  bonds  of  slavery, 
be inspired by the fact that the States Members of the 
United Nations have agreed on the text for a political 
declaration? Would it spark hope in their souls to know 
how  much  thought  has  gone  into  our  recent  work? 
Would they rejoice in the fact that the participants in 
our  high-level  meeting  have  once  again  unanimously 
labelled  trafficking  in  persons  as  a  phenomenon  that 
shames humankind?
Those  are  rhetorical  questions,  because  we  all 
know the answers to them very well. The Global Plan 
of  Action  is  not  a  convention,  it  is  only  an  invitation 
to act. It is a declaration of intent. The real value and 
significance  of  those  intentions  are  attained  only 
when  they  take  the  form  of  practical  action.  Which 
practical actions will generate the hope that humankind 
can  find  the  determination  and  will  to  put  an  end  to 
human trafficking?
The first is unity of action. Only by really uniting 
the  efforts  of  all  countries  and  organizations  and 
placing  them  above  any  considerations  of  political 
gain, convenience or expedience can we achieve a new 
dynamic  in  the  struggle  against  modern  slavery.  Any 
attempt  to  use  the  issue  of  the  fight  against  human 
trafficking  for  self-promotion,  selecting  preferential 
partners or finding aspects of the issue to criticize will 
create, if not the actuality, at least the impression of a 
lack of focus and chaos in our efforts. Until every State, 
every  secretariat  of  an  international  organization  and 
every non-governmental partner works singlemindedly 
to achieve the mindset of a group of friends and of open 
and honest partners against a mindset of competition, 
human traffickers will sleep soundly.
17-30134
21/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
Secondly,  we  need  to  take  small,  practical  steps 
so that we all contribute what we can to the common 
effort.  It  is  long  past  time  for  us  to  recognize  that 
participation in the United Nations Convention against 
Transnational Organized Crime and its complementary 
Palermo  Protocol  is  a  matter  of  moral  choice  as  well 
as a political and legal issue. If traffickers can see that 
the participation of States in such key documents is not 
universal,  they  will  have  strong  evidence  that  we  are 
still divided as a global community.
In  addition,  much  greater  support  is  required  for 
the work of the voluntary trust fund for the protection 
of victims of human trafficking. As a representative of 
Belarus, I am proud to say that my country has made 
its third voluntary contribution to the fund. I would like 
to appeal to the high-level representatives of Member 
States to consider the possibility of supporting the fund 
as an acute and urgent necessity. Allocating the means 
to support the fund represents direct action providing 
practical support for victims of human trafficking.
Thirdly, our most important work is the action we 
take  at  the  national  level.  The  main  drivers of  those 
efforts  are  our  active  major  State  stakeholders,  elites 
that  are  clearly  aware  of  their  moral  responsibility 
for  more  resolute  and  uncompromising  action  to 
combat  human  trafficking.  They  are  elites  open  to 
partnership-based  cooperation  to  achieve  those  goals 
with like-minded people in their own countries and at 
the international level.
Let  us  each  ask  ourselves  if  are  we  among  those 
like-minded  thinkers.  Protecting  people  from  slavery, 
violence  and  exploitation  is  possible.  The  time  for 
discussions  and  navel-gazing  has  passed.  Now  is  the 
time to act.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Marjorie  Espinosa,  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Dominican Republic.
Ms.  Espinosa  (Dominican  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): My delegation is grateful for the convening of 
this high-level meeting on the evaluation of the United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons,  which  is  an  appeal  by  the  international 
community  for  a  concerted  response  in  fighting  and 
eliminating all forms of that transnational crime.
The  Global  Plan  of  Action  demonstrates  the 
willingness  of  States  to  shoulder  their  commitments, 
with  concrete  decisions  on  preventing  human 
trafficking,  protecting  and  assisting  victims  and 
prosecuting human traffickers, all underpinned by the 
international  legal  framework  and  adherence  to  the 
domestic regulations of States.
Following the Dominican Republic’s ratification of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocols,  as  well  as  the 
adoption  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons,  the  Dominican  Government 
has  taken  substantial  steps  at  the  domestic  level  to 
strengthen  its  institutional  structures,  improve  the 
capacities of its principal actors and adapt its specific 
laws.  A  national  action  mechanism  was  created  by 
the  executive  branch  through  decree  575-07,  the 
inter-institutional  commission  to  combat  trafficking 
in  persons  and  illegal  trafficking  of  migrants.  The 
commission is composed of 14 State institutions and is 
led by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
Under  the  legal  protection  of  the  commission, 
the  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  carried  out  a  series 
of  meetings  for  formulating  and  implementing  our 
national  plan  of  action  against  trafficking  in  persons 
and  illicit  trafficking  of  migrants  for  the  period  from 
2009 to 2014. During those meetings, we incorporated 
effective  public  policies  to  ensure  a  comprehensive 
and  holistic  approach  in  the  fight  against  trafficking 
in  persons.  In  concert  with  that  national  strategy,  the 
Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  is  currently  designing  a 
second national plan of action for the period from 2017 
to 2020, through an inter-institutional and intersectoral 
consensus,  in  order  to  reaffirm  and  strengthen  our 
national policy against such crimes against humanity.
The  objective  of  our  national  plan  to  combat 
trafficking in persons remains the promotion of policies 
that are integrated and coordinated among the various 
institutions of the State, civil society and international 
organizations  related 
the 
framework of its three axes — prevention, assistance to 
victims and witnesses and the restitution of their rights, 
and investigation and prosecution.
the  subject,  within 
to 
With  regard  to  prevention,  a  number  of  actions 
have been taken, including publicity campaigns aimed 
at  raising  awareness  about  trafficking  in  persons  and 
the  modalities,  days  of  reflection,  informative  panels 
and  publications  on  the  subject  and,  in  particular, 
targeted campaigns on the prevention of the sexual and 
commercial  exploitation  of  children  and  adolescents, 
with  the  technical  and  financial  support  of  United 
22/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
Nations agencies such as UNICEF and the International 
Organization for Migration.
is  concerned, 
Where  victim  assistance 
the 
Dominican  Government  has  taken  specific  actions 
for  protecting  and  caring  for  victims  of  trafficking 
in  persons,  restoring  their  rights  and  preventing  their 
revictimization.  In  2016,  the  first  specialized  home 
to  help  adult  victims  of  trafficking  was  established, 
and  a  victim  assistance  unit  was  created  under  the 
Attorney  General’s  Office.  More  recently,  we  signed 
an  inter-institutional  agreement  on  the  creation  of  a 
pilot programme for the protection and reintegration of 
Dominican deportees and returnees, including victims 
of trafficking, as a vulnerable migrant population. That 
was made possible by the support of the Organization 
of American States and the International Organization 
for Migration.
Regarding  investigation  and  prosecution,  among 
the most significant initiatives and advances has been 
our establishment in 2013 of an office of a specialized 
prosecutor  for  the  illegal  trafficking  of  migrants  and 
trafficking  in  persons,  thereby  creating  a  designated 
space and specialized personnel dedicated to working 
specifically  on 
in  close 
coordination  with  other  governmental  investigation 
authorities. Since its inception, the special prosecutor’s 
office  has  investigated,  prosecuted  and  convicted 
sex  and  labour  traffickers  and  migrant  traffickers, 
and  significant  progress  has  been  made 
the 
judicial system.
in  persons, 
trafficking 
in 
aimed at increasing the effectiveness of national actors 
and focusing due attention on the migration phenomenon.
My  Government  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the 
implementation of all of the international instruments 
against  trafficking  in  human  beings,  and  we  also 
commit to further strengthening our internal structures 
to assist victims and foster an institutional culture with 
human, financial and technical resources that enable a 
more comprehensive approach to the phenomenon.
Lastly,  we  recognize  and  greatly  value 
the 
importance of having a forum at the multilateral level, 
such  as  that  of  the  United  Nations,  which  promotes 
synergies  among  States, 
the  exchange  of  good 
practices  and  information  on  progress,  as  well  as  the 
identification of new challenges in attaining goals that 
are of global interest.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to Her 
Excellency Ms. Natalia Fedorovych, Vice-Minister for 
Social Policy of Ukraine.
Ms.  Fedorovych  (Ukraine):  We  commend  the 
convening  of  this  high-level  meeting  to  assess  the 
achievements, gaps and challenges in the implementation 
of the Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons.  Trafficking  remains  a  real  threat  to  peace, 
human  rights,  democratic  governance  and  the  rule  of 
law, as well as to socioeconomic development. Ukraine 
reiterates  its  support  for  and  full  adherence  to  the 
implementation of the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking in Persons.
All  those  public  polices  harmonize,  in  a  cross-
cutting manner, with our National Development Strategy 
2030, which includes objectives and lines of action for 
managing migratory flows, strengthening mechanisms 
for preventing and punishing trafficking in persons and 
establishing comprehensive systems to care for victims, 
all in connection to Sustainable Development Goal 8 of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In  recent  years,  we  have  observed  a  significant 
evolution in the forms that trafficking in persons takes, 
especially  in  conflict  and  post-conflict  situations. 
In  various  parts  of  the  world,  conflicts  encompass  a 
wide  range  of  forms  of  exploitation,  including  sexual 
violence,  forced  labour,  slavery  and  the  unlawful 
recruitment of children by force into armed service in 
conflict situations.
The  Dominican  Republic  believes  firmly  that  an 
effective approach to combating trafficking in persons 
must  have  lines  of  action  directed  at  a  cooperative 
approach among countries of origin, transit, destination 
and  return,  prioritizing  a  necessary  and 
timely 
intervention in favour of the identified victims, creating 
and  strengthening  bilateral  work  commissions  and 
encouraging  regional  and  multilateral  cooperation  for 
the  design  of  technological  platforms  for  information 
exchange.  Those  platforms  would  generate  indicators 
Another aspect of the issue is that people displaced 
by  conflict,  including  refugees,  can  be  especially 
vulnerable to all kinds of exploitation. In that regard, 
Ukraine  fully  supports  the  commitments  in  the  New 
York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants  on 
combating  human 
through 
targeted measures to identify, protect and assist victims, 
as  well  as  on  preventing  human  trafficking  among 
those affected by displacement, taking into account the 
particular  vulnerabilities  of  women  and  children.  We 
trafficking, 
including 
17-30134
23/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
also lend our support to the Inter-Agency Coordination 
Group against Trafficking in Persons, which must be an 
efficient tool for the coordination of joint efforts.
I  would  like  to  mention  another  issue,  of  great 
importance for all of us, which is that of accountability 
and  prosecution  for  perpetrators  of  trafficking  in 
persons and of crimes of sexual violence in conflicts. 
Widespread impunity for such crimes is unacceptable, 
because  their  repetition  creates  a  vicious  circle  of 
delinquency. Along with the provision of psychological, 
social and medical support to victims, we see the fight 
against impunity as a key priority area.
Ukraine supports international efforts to combat all 
forms of human rights abuses and violations in conflict 
and  post-conflict  situations.  We  remain  strongly 
committed  to  eradicating  trafficking.  Unfortunately, 
my country has not been immune to this problem. The 
fight against this horrendous phenomenon is at the top 
of the Ukrainian Government’s agenda for its activities 
in  the  area  of  human  rights.  Over  the  past  decade, 
Ukraine has taken a number of important steps towards 
establishing  a  viable  nationwide  counter-trafficking 
response and setting up a Government-owned national 
referral  mechanism  to  identify,  assist  and  protect 
victims of trafficking.
Ukraine’s 
in 
ratification  of  key 
international 
the  area  of  combating  human 
instruments 
trafficking — including the United Nations Convention 
against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocol 
to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, 
especially  Women  and  Children,  and  the  Council  of 
Europe  Convention  on  Action  against  Trafficking  in 
Human Beings — and its adoption in 2011 of a national 
law on combating human trafficking and of a national 
counter-trafficking action plan for the period from 2016 
to 2020 are just a few concrete examples of the steps 
undertaken in our fight against this dreadful problem.
With regard to protecting children from exploitation 
and  abuse,  Ukraine  is  a  party  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional 
Protocol and to the Council of Europe Convention on 
the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation 
and Sexual Abuse.
Let me note, however, that not all of the documents 
I  mentioned  can  currently  be  properly  implemented 
in  areas  of  Ukraine  that  are  not  under  Government 
control.  Three  years  of  Russian  aggression  against 
Ukraine has led to increased risks of human trafficking 
in my country. We have seen numerous cases of human 
trafficking and forced labour, even slavery, in certain 
areas  of  the  Donetsk  and  Luhansk  regions,  which  are 
outside  the  Government’s  control.  But  those  cases 
remain largely unaddressed, due to a lack of safe access 
for, and proper attention by, the monitoring missions.
The situation is complicated by the 400-kilometre 
section of the State border with the Russian Federation 
that is not under Ukraine’s control and is widely used to 
move weapons, ammunition and fighters into the zone of 
conflict. The victims and perpetrators of trafficking in 
persons are also moving across that uncontrolled section 
of the border. In that regard, it should be understood that 
Russia  does  not  have  comprehensive  mechanisms  for 
the effective investigation, prosecution and punishment 
of perpetrators in accordance with the Convention on 
Action  against  Trafficking  in  Human  Beings.  Among 
all  the  Council  of  Europe  member  States,  today  only 
Russia has not joined that Convention.
Trafficking  is  a  blatant  violation  of  human  rights 
and  an  offence  against  the  dignity  and  integrity  of  a 
person.  Success  in  our  common  fight  against  this 
scourge requires the efforts of all concerned. A long-
term solution can emerge only from consistent political 
commitments  and  joint  action  by  the  international 
community  to  eradicate  human  trafficking,  promote 
justice and accountability and protect victims.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Abd  El-Ghani  Awad  El-Karim, 
Under-Secretary of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of 
the Sudan.
Mr.  El-Karim  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf of my country, I would like to warmly thank the 
President of the General Assembly for convening this 
important  meeting,  and  to  reaffirm  that  we  are  ready 
to cooperate with him with regard to our commitments 
based on the United Nations Global Plan of Action to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  in  order  to  end  this 
abominable crime.
in  Persons 
Furthermore, my delegation welcomes the adoption 
of  the  political  declaration  on  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking 
(resolution  72/1),  which 
reaffirms the New York Declaration for Refugees and 
Migrants,  of  September  2016.  In  September  2015,  we 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which also reinforces these efforts through those of its 
Goals and targets that combat trafficking in persons.
24/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
Sudan 
supports  all 
international  efforts 
to 
prevent and reduce human trafficking. We affirm that 
transnational organized crime in all its forms is a threat, 
and  that  fighting  those  crimes  requires  strengthening 
international, regional and bilateral cooperation in the 
relevant  areas,  including  exchanging  information  and 
monitoring  suspect  financial  flows.  We  also  need  to 
take  into  account  the  economic  and  social  aspects  of 
the underlying causes of this phenomenon, for poverty 
is  the  most  dangerous  source  driving  this  crime.  We 
call  for  a  holistic  approach  that  includes  partnerships 
and  measures  to  prevent  trafficking  and  ensure  that 
traffickers are prosecuted and victims are protected.
Large  flows  of  migrants  and  refugees  from 
neighbouring  countries  have  led  to  major  challenges 
for my country. The flow of migrants is exacerbated by 
illegal migration and by refugees fleeing camps in order 
to  reach  towns  and  cities.  All  of  those  demographic 
movements are characterized by trafficking in persons, 
particularly women and children.
The Sudan is a transit country. It is big and covered 
with  desert.  My  country  has  been  making  tireless 
efforts  to  fight  organized  crime  consistent  with  our 
international and regional commitments. In that regard, 
I would like to share with the General Assembly certain 
successes that we have achieved in the area.
First,  in  October  2014,  we  adopted  a  law  on 
combating  human  trafficking  and  set  up  a  national 
committee to fight it. After the law came into force, our 
police were able to free more than 861 victims, most of 
them women and children being sent to Libya and on 
to Europe. They were also able to liberate 560 victims 
from  our  northern  province,  where  they  were  on  the 
way to Sinai.
Secondly, we have amended our asylum regulation 
acts of 1974 and 2014 so that they are now consistent 
with changes at the regional and international levels.
Thirdly,  we  have  made  amendments 
to  our 
customs  regulations  to  bring  them  into  line  with 
recent developments.
Fourthly,  in  October  2014,  Khartoum  hosted  a 
Conference  on  Human  Trafficking  and  Smuggling  in 
the Horn of Africa, held in cooperation with the African 
Union and the European Union, with the participation 
of the neighbouring States of Eritrea, Ethiopia, Egypt 
and  South  Sudan.  The  Conference  resulted  in  what 
became known as the Khartoum process, with another 
conference held on the same issue in Rome in November 
2014. We call on the international community to meet 
its commitments under the Khartoum process.
Fifthly,  my  country’s  Government  has  signed  a 
number of agreements with neighbouring countries in 
order to monitor our borders. We have an agreement with 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  and  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration  to  combat  the  problem  of  porous  borders, 
particularly  in  eastern  Sudan,  where  the  majority  of 
victims are refugees and asylum seekers.
Once again, my country is determined to continue 
its  cooperation  with  the  international  community  and 
the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  to 
combat  human  trafficking.  We  call  for  this  issue  to 
be  dealt  with  in  an  integrated  fashion  by  taking  the 
necessary measures to halt it. We must also reinforce 
our efforts to raise awareness on human trafficking and 
the suffering of victims and to strengthen protection for 
them and for their rights.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Jean  Kalilani,  Minister  for  Gender, 
Children, Disability and Social Welfare of Malawi.
Ms. Kalilani (Malawi): I am delighted to be here 
and to be able to apprise the General Assembly of the 
progress achieved in the implementation of the United 
Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons, adopted by resolution 64/293, in order to assess 
the related achievements, gaps and challenges and the 
implementation of the relevant legal instruments. This 
is a very important meeting, as trafficking in persons is 
a global issue that requires our concerted efforts to end 
this degrading modern-day slavery — the worst form 
of slavery, in fact. Its barbarism and evil nature have no 
place in the modern world.
The Global Plan of Action calls for Governments, 
United Nations bodies, international organizations and 
civil  society  to  work  together  to  further  integrate  the 
fight against human trafficking into the Organization’s 
broader  programmes  for  global  development  and  to 
strengthen security around the world.
Malawi  joins  the  rest  of  the  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  in  the  commitment  to  combating 
trafficking in persons. That commitment is underscored 
by the fact that the Global Plan of Action is complemented 
by the Sustainable Development Goals, which include 
three targets that directly relate to trafficking and to the 
17-30134
25/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
implementation  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action.  Malawi 
acknowledges the implementation of the Global Plan at 
the international, regional and national levels.
On 17 March 2005, the Government of Malawi ratified 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized Crime and its two Protocols — the Protocol 
to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, 
Especially  Women  and  Children,  and  the  Protocol 
against  the  Smuggling  of  Migrants  by  Land,  Sea  and 
Air. Furthermore, the Government of Malawi enacted a 
trafficking in persons act, No.3 of 2015, which provides 
a  comprehensive  legislative  framework  for  combating 
and preventing trafficking in persons through a human 
rights-focused and victim-centred approach.
Malawi  has  also  established  an 
institutional 
framework  for  effective  and  coordinated  regulations 
on trafficking in persons and related matters, including 
provisions  for  protecting  victims  of 
trafficking, 
preventing trafficking in persons, establishing funding 
arrangements and caring for and supporting victims, as 
well as for penalties for specific offences.
Malawi  has  continued  to  translate  that  political 
will  into  concrete,  specific,  time-bound  measures, 
with its adoption of a 2017-2020 national plan of action 
against  trafficking  in  persons,  officially  launched  on 
29 August. The plan acknowledges a holistic approach 
to interventions by all stakeholders in order to achieve 
its  vision  of  creating  a  Malawi  free  of  trafficking  in 
persons and is aligned with the United Nations Global 
Plan of Action. We are very grateful to the Organization, 
especially  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and 
Crime, as well as to the Southern African Development 
Community  and  the  Royal  Norwegian  Government, 
for their technical and financial support for achieving 
those milestones.
However,  more  support  will  be  needed  for  our 
implementation  of  our  national  plan.  A  high-level 
national  coordination  committee  was  established  in 
2016  to  coordinate  and  manage  all  issues  relating  to 
trafficking in persons. We are currently in the process 
of  establishing  an  anti-trafficking  fund  with  the  sole 
purpose of supporting victims of trafficking; providing 
capacity-building  for  enforcement,  social  welfare  and 
judicial officers and for investigators and prosecutors; 
and reintegrating victims back into their communities.
Malawi is also implementing its national registration 
programme,  which  includes  birth  registration.  This  is 
very  important  for  citizens  and  will  deter  traffickers 
from  taking  our  children,  who  are  the  victims  most 
affected.
Today  we  need  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations 
Global Plan of Action addresses issues of transparency 
and  resource  mobilization  in  order  to  support  the 
Member  States 
in  anti-trafficking  programmes, 
effective partnerships and dealing with corruption.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Ms.  Vassiliadou  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  Turkey,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Albania, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Armenia  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves with this statement.
The  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  remains  essential  as  a 
framework for joint action to combat trafficking. Today 
we  renew  and  reinvigorate  our  common  commitment 
to  eradicating  trafficking  in  human  beings  and  to 
protecting the human rights of the victims.
The process leading up to this meeting, including 
the multi-stakeholder meeting in July, has provided us 
with an opportunity to take stock of the progress that 
has  been  made  in  the  implementation  of  the  Global 
Plan of Action. It has further allowed us to address the 
persistent and emerging challenges that we face in our 
efforts to combat trafficking in persons.
The  Global  Plan  of  Action  is  structured  around 
prevention,  prosecution,  protection  and  partnerships. 
This approach, which is also reflected in the European 
Union  anti-trafficking 
its 
applicability in practice, and we look forward to seeing 
it  applied  to  addressing  trafficking  in  human  beings 
under the United Nations global compact on migration 
and the United Nations global compact for refugees.
strategy,  has  proved 
The  EU  has  set  forth,  through  law  and  policy,  a 
comprehensive framework for addressing trafficking in 
human beings in a victim-focused, human-rights-based, 
gender-specific and child-sensitive way. The EU and its 
member  States  have  demonstrated  their  commitment 
to  implementing  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action and to upholding the legal standards enshrined 
in the United Nations Convention against Transnational 
Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocols,  as  well  as  other 
26/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
international  legal  instruments  addressing  trafficking 
in human beings.
and  children,  especially  unaccompanied  children  and 
those separated from their families.
We  are  working  globally  with  partners  to  build 
capacities and promote those standards. The EU remains 
the world’s largest donor of aid, and it finances many 
projects  promoting  anti-trafficking  action  around  the 
world. One example is the joint European Union-United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime Global Action to 
Prevent  and  Address  Trafficking  in  Persons  and  the 
Smuggling  of  Migrants,  launched  in  January  2016.  It 
delivers  assistance  to  13  countries  around  the  world, 
in partnership with the International Organization for 
Migration and UNICEF.
No country in the world is immune to trafficking 
in  human  beings.  We  need  to  promote  cooperation, 
in  particular  among  countries  of  origin, 
transit 
and  destination,  including  in  the  development  of 
transnational  referral  mechanisms  —  which 
link 
national  referral  mechanisms  so  as  to  better  identify, 
refer,  protect  and  assist  victims —  as  well  as  of  data 
collection  systems  and  the  exchange  of  information 
for 
the  development  of  evidence-based  policies. 
Cooperation  with  non-governmental  organizations, 
national  human  rights  institutions,  the  private  sector 
and all other relevant partners is also essential.
We  are  faced  with  a  number  of  emerging  and 
persistent  challenges  in  the  fight  against  trafficking, 
which  will  require  increased  efforts  in  the  future. 
They  include  trafficking  in  the  context  of  migration 
and the refugee crisis, the nexus between conflict and 
trafficking in human beings, the risk of trafficking in 
supply chains, and trafficking for the purposes of sexual 
abuse and exploitation, including of children online.
We  have  come  a  long  way,  but  what  is  now  vital 
for  the  lives  of  victims  and  survivors  is  the  effective 
implementation  of  legal  standards  at  national  and 
international  levels.  We  must  address  trafficking  in 
human beings both as a heinous crime and as an abuse 
and  a  violation  of  human  rights.  There  is  a  need  to 
address root causes that render people vulnerable, and 
we  will  work  to  achieve  our  commitments  under  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in order to 
address such root causes and vulnerabilities.
We must ensure accountability for perpetrators. It 
is the traffickers that should be punished by the law, not 
the victims.
Most important, we must work on prevention and 
partnerships,  since  anything  else  comes  too  late  for 
the victims. Prevention is central to the Global Plan of 
Action and to EU law and policies. We must step up our 
efforts to discourage the demand that fosters all forms 
of exploitation, in both the legal and illegal economies.
We  also  call  for  more  cooperation  at  the  United 
Nations  level  and  stress  the  role  of  the  Inter-Agency 
Coordination  Group  against  Trafficking  in  Persons, 
which  has  an  essential  part  to  play  in  ensuring  that 
efforts  across  the  United  Nations  are  coherent  and 
avoid duplication.
Finally,  we  reaffirm  our  full  commitment  to 
continuing and reinforcing our work in this direction, 
further  enhancing 
international  cooperation  and 
working towards an effective global response.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of Macedonia.
Mr.  Djundev  (Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia): It is my great honour to take part in today’s 
high-level  meeting  on  the  appraisal  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons.
The delegation of the Republic of Macedonia aligns 
itself with the statement of the European Union, but I 
would like to share with the General Assembly a few 
remarks in my national capacity.
this 
Let  me  first  welcome 
timely  high-level 
discussion on an important framework document. It is 
crucial to keep focus on this heinous crime in all of its 
aspects and forms, so that it is kept on the agenda along 
with a variety of other pressing issues we are confronted 
with.  Trafficking  in  human  beings  is  of  particular 
relevance in the context of the ongoing discussions on 
the two compacts, on migrants and refugees.
We must continue to promote the efforts of all the 
relevant actors to identify victims of trafficking as early 
as possible so as to ensure the realization of their right to 
appropriate  assistance,  protection  and  support,  taking 
into  account  the  particular  vulnerabilities  of  women 
In recent years we have witnessed the determination 
and  action  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member 
States,  individually  and  collectively,  to  suppress  this 
extremely  negative  phenomenon,  which  constitutes 
a  serious  threat  to  human  dignity,  human  rights  and 
17-30134
27/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
development.  Although  some  progress  has  been 
achieved, there is no room for complacency. Challenges 
remain  that  are  gaining  new  forms  and  requiring  an 
innovative approach.
The Republic of Macedonia has always supported 
initiatives to raise awareness within the United Nations 
and  other,  regional,  organizations  aimed  at  more 
efficient,  effective  and  coordinated  action  in  the  area 
of  preventing  and  combating  trafficking  in  human 
beings.  Although  the  primary  responsibility  for  the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  the  prevention  of  and 
fight  against  trafficking  in  persons  lies  in  the  hands 
of  the  Government,  coordination,  partnership  and 
cooperation with other national stakeholders, including 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector,  are  prerequisites 
for  effective  implementation  of  protection  measures 
and policies.
On  the  national  level,  my  country  has  taken  a 
number of important legislative and organizational steps 
to  prevent  and  combat  trafficking  in  human  beings. 
Special attention is paid to prevention and to protection 
measures that address the vulnerability of women and 
children as the most likely victims of trafficking. Being 
on  the  Balkan  route,  another  important  challenge  for 
my country has been human trafficking in the context 
of illegal migration.
Unfortunately, despite all the efforts undertaken at 
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels,  human 
trafficking  is  still  widespread.  A  more  resolute  and 
comprehensive  approach  on  the  ground  is  therefore 
required.  In  addition  to  prevention,  we  must  protect 
and  assist  victims,  as  well  as  prosecuting  criminal 
groups engaged in trafficking in persons, all of which 
are prerequisites for yielding results in the fight against 
this contemporary form of slavery.
Let me conclude by underlining that progress in the 
implementation of the Global Plan of Action depends on 
our resolve and the sustainability of our efforts, as well 
as on our commitment to translate the obligations we 
have undertaken into concrete actions on the ground.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
deputy Chair of the delegation of Israel.
Ms. Furman (Israel): One might think that slavery 
and  prostitution  are  problems  of  the  past,  relics  from 
another  era.  But  unfortunately,  even  today,  in  the 
twenty-first  century,  we  still  see  innocent  people  fall 
victim  to  human  trafficking.  Human  trafficking  does 
not exist in a vacuum. It is closely linked to organized 
crime  and  terrorist  groups  that  prey  on  their  victims 
in  times  of  crisis.  Nearly  80  per  cent  of  all  detected 
trafficking  victims  are  women  and  children.  More 
than  half  of  trafficking  worldwide  is  for  the  purpose 
of  sexual  exploitation.  Forced  labour,  which  accounts 
for nearly 40 per cent of all human trafficking, is the 
slavery of our time.
The Bible tells us that thousands of years ago the 
Israelite  people  were  slaves  in  Egypt.  After  hundreds 
of years of servitude, we were emancipated and gained 
our  freedom.  But  with  that  freedom  came  the  eternal 
obligation  to  remember  the  slavery  we  experienced. 
For Israel, internalizing the slavery of our past informs 
and shapes our efforts to end human trafficking and all 
forms of modern slavery.
Throughout  the  1990s  and  early  2000s,  Israel 
was  faced  with  a  severe  spate  of  human  trafficking 
in  which  women  were  brought  to  Israel  and  forced 
into  prostitution.  At  the  height  of  that  phenomenon, 
approximately 3,000 women a year were being brought 
to Israel. Since then, Israel has developed two national 
plans  and  aligned  a  range  of  ministries,  including  in 
the  areas  of  health,  social  services,  internal  affairs 
and  justice,  to  help  combat  human  trafficking.  Israel 
has  also  enacted  far-reaching  legislation  to  prevent 
human  trafficking,  covering  all  forms  of  trafficking 
identified  by  the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocol  on 
trafficking in persons.
Israel  is  a  tier  1  country  in  the  battle  against 
trafficking.  Most  important,  Israel  has  succeeded  in 
reducing the most severe form of trafficking in women 
for prostitution, which was prevalent in Israel. That is 
mainly due to our hard work on all four Ps — prevention, 
prosecution, protection and partnership.
Beyond  our 
legislative  work  and  determined 
enforcement  efforts  to  combat  human  trafficking,  we 
continue  to  allocate  resources  for  the  rehabilitation 
of  trafficking  victims.  We  have  established  dedicated 
shelters,  for  both  women  and  men,  that  provide 
resources,  including  financial  aid,  legal  assistance, 
work visas and medical and psychological care. While 
we would prefer that those shelters not be needed at all, 
they  provide  refuge  for  dozens  of  people  and  play  an 
important role in their rehabilitation.
In  addition, 
the  appointment  of  an 
anti-trafficking  coordinator  to  liaise  between  the 
through 
28/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
Government  and  non-governmental  organizations,  we 
have increased our partnership with civil society. That 
has  proven  critical  in  reducing  the  scourge  of  human 
trafficking  and  better  identifying,  and  then  assisting, 
victims.
While  Israel  is  encouraged  by  the  progress  made 
by  the  international  community,  much  work  remains 
to  be  done.  At  this  appraisal  meeting  of  the  United 
Nations Global Plan of Action to Combat Trafficking in 
Persons, we call on all countries that have yet to ratify 
the Palermo Protocol on trafficking in persons to do so.
Human  traffickers  pay  no  attention  to  borders. 
Similarly, as members of the international community, 
we  must  transcend  borders  in  our  efforts  to  end 
human  trafficking.  By  continuing  to  combine  our 
collective  willpower,  we  can  and  will  find  answers, 
working together to attain our joint goals in the Global 
Action Plan.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Turkey.
this 
Mr. Samsar (Turkey): I would first like to thank the 
President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-
General  for  organizing 
timely  meeting.  We 
believe  that  our  deliberations  here  today  will  further 
strengthen  our  collective  efforts  to  eradicate  this 
heinous  crime.  Human  trafficking  constitutes  a  clear 
violation of human rights. It is a serious offence to the 
dignity and integrity of persons and is rightly described 
as modern-day slavery. Transnational organized crime 
has immense costs for the social and economic fabric 
of our societies.
It is a global problem and requires a comprehensive 
response. Although it can be countered by sophisticated 
measures,  efforts  to  prevent  trafficking  and  protect 
trafficked  persons  remain  a  challenge.  We  should 
therefore  address  the  four  pillars  —  prevention, 
prosecution,  protection  and  partnerships.  In  order 
to  be  relevant,  trusted  and  responsive,  we  have  to 
develop  inclusive,  human-rights  based  and  human-
centred approaches, including legislative and criminal 
measures.  Our  efforts  should  also  be  aimed  at  taking 
every  possible  measure  in  our  countries  in  line  with 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational 
Organized  Crime  and  its  Protocol  on  combating 
trafficking in human beings.
While  doing  that,  we  should  not  lose  sight  of 
the  fact  that  human  trafficking  cannot  be  prevented 
by  Governments  acting 
individually.  We  should 
recalibrate  and  coordinate  our  ongoing  efforts.  We 
have the necessary international instruments in force. 
Moreover, the New York Declaration for Refugees and 
Migrants  clearly  mandates  us  to  do  so.  Besides,  the 
Assembly will recall that we pledged to take immediate 
and effective measures to eradicate forced labour and 
end modern slavery and human trafficking in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
In that vein, I would like to reiterate our commitment 
regarding  the  full  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in Persons. We believe that it is a solid basis on which 
to reinforce our legal obligations and a comprehensive 
guideline of our actions. It will also be instrumental in 
promoting coordinated and consistent responses at the 
national,  regional  and  international  levels  to  counter 
human trafficking.
We all know that, due to the inability of the existing 
international humanitarian system to respond properly 
to  the  needs  of  people  affected  by  catastrophes  and 
emergencies, criminal networks find fertile ground to 
exploit  the  vulnerabilities  of  migrants  by  smuggling 
and trafficking them. Unfortunately, we see how human 
trafficking  has  become  a  very  profitable  business  for 
terrorist  organizations  such  as  Da’esh,  the  Partiya 
Yekîtiya  Demokrat/Yekîneyên  Parastina  Gel  and  the 
Partiya  Karkerên  Kurdistanê  (PKK).  For  example, 
the  human-trafficking  activities  of  the  PKK  terrorist 
organization  were  emphasized  in  the  United  States 
Department  of  State’s  Trafficking  in  Persons  Report 
2017.  As  the  country  hosting  the  largest  number  of 
refugees in the world, including more than 3.1 million 
Syrians,  Turkey  is  resolved  to  undertake  necessary 
measures  to  prevent  the  human  trafficking,  forced 
labour  and  slavery  of  those  who  had  already  fled  the 
horrors of conflicts.
took 
(Zimbabwe),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Shava 
the Chair.
On  the  other  hand,  given  the  complex  nature  of 
human trafficking, we need a whole-of-society approach 
to combating organized crime. It is imperative that the 
private sector and civil society also join Governments’ 
endeavours. With that understanding, we successfully 
ensured a seat for the private sector during our chairship 
of the Global Forum on Migration and Development in 
2014 and 2015.
17-30134
29/31
A/72/PV.24 
27/09/2017
In  that  regard,  we  would  also  like  to  stress  the 
fact that, with a view to effectively combating human 
trafficking,  legal  pathways  for  migrants  seeking  a 
decent life must be strengthened. We should make every 
effort  to  provide  the  necessary  conditions  for  tearing 
down the barriers standing in the way of safe, regular 
and orderly migration. Let me once again underline that 
Turkey supports the work towards two global compacts, 
on migration and for refugees. We have been actively 
taking part in those processes since their inception. We 
are confident that, under the able leadership of Special 
Representative Arbour and High Commissioner Grandi, 
we will achieve a great deal.
to 
legislation  and 
improving 
and 
legal  measures 
Turkey remains strongly committed to eradicating 
human  trafficking  by  implementing  a  progressive 
approach.  With  that  understanding,  we  introduced 
administrative 
combat 
the  phenomenon 
through  prevention,  protection, 
prosecution  and  cooperation.  Our  efforts  are  focused 
on  enhancing  our 
the 
implementation of our obligations. In that connection, 
with  the  enforcement  of  our  law  on  foreigners  and 
international protection, the national task force on the 
fight  against  human  trafficking  has  been  replaced  by 
a coordination commission against human trafficking. 
The  commission  has  decided  to  develop  and  put  into 
practice  an  updated  national  action  plan  on  the  fight 
against  human  trafficking  in  the  coming  period. 
Furthermore, initiatives such as a multilingual toll-free 
helpline, a victim support programme and a voluntary 
and safe return programme have been put into practice.
We  are  party  to  the  relevant  international  and 
regional  instruments,  including  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime 
and  its  supplementing  Protocols  and  the  Council  of 
Europe  Convention  on  Action  against  Trafficking  in 
Human Beings.
All  of  the  challenges  that  we  face  will  take  time 
to  be  resolved,  and  advancing  in  our  efforts  requires 
collaborative but decisive action. We need to recognize 
the different needs of our countries while also ensuring 
mutual benefits and joint success.
The  Acting  President:  With  the  consent  of  the 
Assembly,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency 
Archbishop  Paul  Richard  Gallagher,  Secretary  for 
Relations with States of the Holy See.
to Combat Trafficking in Persons, in 2010, the extent 
of  the  crime  of  human  trafficking  across  the  globe 
has  worsened.  Thankfully,  however,  during  the  same 
period,  the  recognition  of  the  dimensions  of  the 
problem, the resources required to respond to it and the 
resolve of Governments, institutions and individuals to 
combat it have grown.
That is, alas, a meagre consolation, because the gap 
is still growing between our commitments and efforts 
and  the  reality  confronting  victims,  including  the 
serious  dangers  that  persons  in  vulnerable  situations 
face every day. Finding effective measures to close that 
gap is the reason we are gathered here.
My delegation would like to structure its assessment 
on  the  progress  of  the  Global  Plan  of  Action  around 
the  four  objectives  that  underpin  it,  often  referred  to 
as the four Ps — to prevent trafficking in persons by 
addressing what drives it, to protect and assist victims, 
to prosecute those involved in the crime of trafficking 
and  to  promote  partnerships  among  governmental 
institutions and all stakeholders to eradicate trafficking 
and rehabilitate survivors.
There has been significant progress in identifying 
and addressing many of the social, economic, cultural, 
political and other factors that make people vulnerable 
to trafficking in persons, in formulating comprehensive 
policies  and  programmes  and  developing  educational 
and  awareness-raising  campaigns.  At  the  same  time, 
however,  several  of  the  drivers  of  vulnerability  have 
worsened,  particularly  armed  conflicts  that  provoke 
enormous humanitarian emergencies, forced migration 
and  the  refugee  crisis,  which  have  exacerbated  the 
dramatic situations faced by people, especially women 
and children.
With  regard  to  cultural  factors,  the  political 
declaration (resolution 72/1) on the implementation of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  commits  the  international 
community  to  intensifying  its  efforts  to  prevent  and 
address,  with  a  view  to  eliminating  the  demand  that 
fosters trafficking, especially of women and girls, and 
all  forms  of  exploitation.  Doing  so  in  a  resolute  way 
requires a frank and courageous examination of those 
practices  that  foster  sexually  addictive  behaviour  and 
the  dehumanization  of  other  persons  as  mere  objects 
of gratification.
Archbishop  Gallagher  (Holy  See):  Since  the 
adoption of the United Nations Global Plan of Action 
Concerning  the  protection  of  and  assistance  for 
victims, my delegation believes that there is now greater 
30/31 
17-30134
27/09/2017 
A/72/PV.24
awareness  and  legal  recognition  that  the  victims  of 
trafficking are indeed victims rather than silent partners 
or, even worse, perpetrators of crimes. More services 
are  in  place  to  identify  and  liberate  victims  from  the 
clutches  of  modern  slavery,  regularize  their  situation 
and  put  them  on  the  path  to  recovery.  As  a  result  of 
the  deep  traumas  they  suffer,  however,  there  is  need 
for  greater  recognition  that  the  work  of  rehabilitation 
cannot be a brief programme, but requires a long-term 
investment in order to provide the healing and training 
necessary for the victims to begin a normal, productive 
and autonomous life.
With  regard  to  the  prosecution  of  crimes  of 
trafficking in persons, there have been various advances 
in terms of formulating adequate legal instruments to 
investigate, prosecute and punish traffickers, unlocking 
the  financial  chains,  understanding  the  connection  to 
other  forms  of  organized  crime  and  corruption,  and 
fostering cooperation at and across borders. At the same 
time,  however,  as  the  Global  Report  on  Trafficking 
in  Persons  2016  makes  clear,  there  are  still  very  few 
convictions and too much impunity.
There  has  also  been  progress  in  the  formation  of 
partnerships  to  strengthen  collective  action  among 
Governments  and  governmental  agencies,  academic 
institutions and the media, civil society and the private 
sector.  The  political  declaration  specifically  mentions 
partnerships with and among faith-based organizations. 
The Santa Marta Group, named after the residence of 
Pope Francis, is an international alliance of police chiefs 
and bishops who work together at all levels to promote 
coordination  between  law  enforcement  and  faith-
based  organizations  in  combating  human  trafficking 
according to the specific competencies of each.
Similarly, the many groups and networks of Catholic 
religious sisters, coordinated internationally by Talitha 
Kum  —  a  network  of 22  member  organizations in  70 
countries  —  show  how  faith  groups  can  collaborate 
with law enforcement authorities and with one another, 
joining  more  powerful  coalitions  with  multi-pronged 
strategies,  in  the  fight  against  trafficking  in  persons 
and other contemporary forms of slavery.
In  his  2015  message  on  the  World  Day  of  Prayer 
for  Peace,  dedicated  to  the  theme  of  eliminating 
human trafficking, Pope Francis emphasized the need 
for  partnerships  and  a  new  worldwide  solidarity  and 
fraternity to remedy the indifference and exploitation 
that  form  a  polluted  human  ecology  in  which  human 
trafficking  thrives.  He  wrote  that  we  are  facing  a 
global  phenomenon  that  exceeds  the  competence  of 
any  one  community  or  country.  In  order  to  eliminate 
it,  we  need  a  mobilization  that  is  comparable  in  size 
to  that  of  the  phenomenon  itself.  The  Global  Plan  of 
Action  is  an  important  part  of  that  mobilization,  and 
this  appraisal  meeting  is  a  means  to  help  make  the 
Global Plan increasingly effective. Our efforts must be 
commensurate to the challenge.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
17-30134
31/31
