United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
43rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 8 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
Mr. Barros Melet (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): The 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  related  matters  is  one  of  the  most  important 
agenda items, which must be considered very carefully 
in  order  for  the  solution  ultimately  achieved  to  lend 
clear legitimacy, effectiveness and transparency to the 
Security Council’s work. We seek reform that enables the 
Council to deal with challenges to peace and security in 
a timely way while, at the same time, preventing those 
changes that could obstruct or slow down its working 
methods. The recent selection process and appointment 
of the Secretary-General and the increase in the number 
of open meetings in the Council’s work make it more 
important than ever to ensure those objectives.
On  the  question  of  the  categories  of  membership 
of  the  Council,  we  underscore  the  need  to  increase 
both  categories  of  members  —  permanent  and 
non-permanent — in order for the Council to become 
a  truly  representative  body  that  reflects  the  new 
geopolitical realities and responds appropriately to the 
situations on its agenda. In turn, we acknowledge the 
progress made since the most recent reform of that body.
However, I reiterate that an increase in the permanent 
membership  does  not  under  any  circumstances  mean 
an  expansion  of  the  right  to  the  veto.  In  this  regard, 
we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  code  of  conduct 
on  limiting  the  use  of  the  veto,  proposed  by  the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group, 
of which we are a member, and to the French-Mexican 
declaration, which is supported by the permanent five. 
We call on those States that have not yet done so to join 
those initiatives.
The document on elements of convergence resulting 
from the intergovernmental negotiations in the context 
of the seventy-first session (decision 71/553), in which 
Chile participated, provided guidance on how to move 
forward with text-based negotiations, which will require 
greater flexibility and openness by Member States.
In  that  regard,  we  appreciate  the  work  carried 
out  by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Romania 
and  Tunisia,  Ambassadors  Ion  Jinga  and  Mohamed 
Khaled  Khiari,  respectively,  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  previous 
session.  We  wish  their  successors  —  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates, Ambassadors Kaha Imnadze and Lana Zaki 
Nusseibeh, respectively — success in seeking to bring 
together positions in pursuit of a negotiating text that 
includes the jointly agreed elements.
Ms.  French  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  looks  forward  to  another  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  I  would  like  to  welcome  our  new  co-Chairs, 
Ambassadors  Nusseibeh  and  Imnadze, 
to  whom 
we  will  look  for  guidance  on  and  oversight  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37096 (E)
*1737096*
A/72/PV.43 
08/11/2017
I  would  also  like  to  extend  our  gratitude  to 
Ambassadors  Jinga and Khiari for their  leadership as 
co-Chairs of the process last year. Their leadership on 
the food-for-thought paper on Security Council reform 
positions captured our joint efforts towards convergence. 
Endeavouring to identify areas where the viewpoints of 
delegations may be moving closer together is a logical 
step  towards  broad  consensus,  which  is  a  crucial 
element in our reform efforts. We also thank our fellow 
Member States for contributing to the document, which 
serves as a helpful overview of the status of discussions 
within the intergovernmental negotiations.
We  know  that  many  Member  States  believe  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process has debated the 
issue of United Nations reform for far too long and had 
little  to  show  for  it,  and  that  only  through  text-based 
negotiations  can  we  achieve  substantial  progress.  We 
recognize  that  there  are  differences  of  opinion  with 
regard  to  how  we  should  conduct  these  negotiations 
and  as  to  what  text  should  provide  the  basis  for 
discussion.  The  United  States  remains  open  to  all 
manner  of  negotiations  within  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations framework, so long as they help us arrive 
at the broad consensus necessary to reach agreement on 
Council reform. Whatever path the intergovernmental 
negotiations  follows,  we  must  ensure  that  it  enhances 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the Security Council 
and  allows  us  to  more  effectively  address  pressing 
challenges to international peace and security.
For  reform  to  be  successful,  our  decisions  must 
enjoy  the  broadest  possible  consensus.  In  order  to 
achieve this, the United States will support reasonable 
proposals  for  a  modest  expansion  of  the  Council  in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories. 
Consideration of any new permanent membership must 
take into account candidates’ ability and willingness to 
contribute to the maintenance of international peace and 
security, and to exercise the heavy responsibilities that 
come  with  Security  Council  membership.  We  remain 
opposed to any expansion or alteration of the veto.
The  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  have 
the support of the United States as we once again work 
towards  a  comprehensive  solution  that  can  secure  the 
broadest Member State support.
Mr.  Radomski  (Poland):  Let  me  thank  you, 
important 
convening 
this 
Mr.  President, 
annual debate.
for 
At the outset, Poland would like to warmly welcome 
the  nomination  of  Ambassador  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Ambassador  Kaha 
lmnadze  of  Georgia  as  the  new  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the 
two  previous  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassador  Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  and 
Ambassador  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  of  Tunisia,  for 
their significant work and unflagging determination to 
bridge the divisions that remain among Member States.
With  the  imminent  commencement  of  another 
round  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  in  view, 
allow  me  to  reiterate  Poland’s  strong  support  for  the 
process and to share with the General Assembly a few 
remarks on the priorities that we see ahead.
The  Security  Council  is  at  the  heart  of  the 
international order. As a newly elected member, Poland 
sees  the  growing  complexity  of  the  international 
environment.  The  proliferation  of  conflicts  and  their 
intergovernmental 
transnational  nature  make 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  all 
the 
more important.
the 
Proceeding from the areas of convergence identified 
in the last session’s food-for-thought paper, we remain 
committed to striving towards the enlargement of the 
Security  Council  so  that  it  becomes  more  reflective 
of  the  realities  of  today’s  world.  All  regional  groups 
should  be  given  a  voice  in  discussions  and  decisions 
of  vital  importance.  In  this  context,  we  continue  to 
support  the  proposal  for  an  additional  seat  in  the 
Security  Council  for  the  Group  of  Eastern  European 
States — the Group that saw its membership grow the 
most in recent decades.
We also look forward to continuing discussions on 
the veto power — the thorniest of issues, but also one 
that we strongly believe should not be shied away from 
if further politicization of the veto is to be stopped. The 
right  of  veto  carries  with  it  enormous  responsibility, 
and its currency is human lives. Any initiative aimed 
at  ensuring  its  advised  application  can  count  on 
our support.
least, 
Last  but  not 
transparency  and  greater 
access  to  information  about  the  Security  Council’s 
decision-making  process  is  seen  by  Poland  as  a 
prerequisite  for  restoring  trust  in  international  law 
the 
and  an 
indispensable  element  of  promoting 
2/12 
17-37096
08/11/2017 
A/72/PV.43
engagement  of  international  audiences  in  peaceful 
conflict resolution.
support 
In  conclusion,  let  me  once  again  state  Poland’s 
unwavering 
intergovernmental 
negotiations process. We remain convinced that it is vital 
to  continue  the  dialogue  among  Member  States  if  we 
are to attain the goal of ensuring that the Organization 
can face the ever-greater challenges ahead.
for 
the 
Mr.  Şen  (Turkey):  We  align  ourselves  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group 
(see A/72/PV.41). I wish to make the following remarks 
in my national capacity.
We  appreciate  your  engagement  in  the  process, 
Mr.  President,  and  warmly  welcome  Ambassadors 
Nusseibeh and Imnadze in their new capacities as the 
co-Chairs. We look forward to closely cooperating with 
them in the upcoming session of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  also 
express our gratitude to the former co-Chairs for their 
efforts  in  favour  of  finding  areas  of  convergences  in 
order to reach consensus on this important matter.
Security  Council  reform  is  a  matter  of  global 
importance,  which  has  a  direct  impact  on  the  lives 
of  current  and  future  generations.  We  advocate  for  a 
meaningful  and  principled  reform  that  would  bring 
about a more democratic, representative, effective and 
transparent  Council,  and  one,  more  importantly,  that 
is  more  accountable.  We  believe  this  can  be  achieved 
by  increasing  only  the  number  of  elected  members 
of  the  Council.  The  permanent  membership  and  the 
veto  mechanism  provide  a  clear  explanation  for  the 
Security  Council’s  inaction,  which  is  a  situation  that 
needs  to  be  rectified,  but  not  by  strengthening  the 
permanent membership or the veto mechanism. Indeed, 
it is not at all clear to us how adding new permanent 
members  or  expanding  veto  powers  will  enhance  the 
Council’s accountability.
For those aspiring to serve the cause of maintaining 
international peace and security for longer periods, we, 
the Uniting for Consensus Group, are proposing longer-
terms seats with the possibility of re-election. Ideally, 
the veto should be abolished. There is no justification 
for certain members having this right while others do 
not. In this respect, we support the initiatives to limit 
the use of negative vote in cases of mass atrocities. A 
more  equitable  representation  of  the  regional  groups 
and  a  fair  system  of  rotation,  including  enhanced 
opportunities for underrepresented groups, is a must in 
the reformed Council. However, the working methods 
and the relationship with the General Assembly are no 
less  important,  as  they  define  the  daily  dynamics  of 
the system.
My  delegation  is  looking  forward  to  engaging 
constructively  in  the  upcoming  intergovernmental 
negotiations to achieve progress based on the foregoing 
principles,  which  will  address  the  shortcomings  of 
the  current  system  and  enhance  the  legitimacy  of  the 
Security Council.
Mr.  Mendoza  García  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  My  delegation  thanks  you,  Mr.  President, 
for  once  again  convening  this  annual  debate  on  the 
representativeness  and  membership  of  the  Security 
Council.  We  endorse  the  statement  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/72/PV.41).  We 
would  like  to  thank  Ambassadors  Ion  Jinga  and 
Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari,  of  Romania  and  Tunisia, 
respectively, for their hard work and dedication during 
the last session.
In  the  same  vein,  Mr.  President,  we  take  this 
opportunity  to  recognize  your  appointment  of  the 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
Arab Emirates, Ambassadors Kaha Imnadze and Lana 
Zaki Nusseibeh, as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations. We wish them success in their work. My 
country assures them of our unqualified collaboration 
during the current session of negotiations.
My  country  considers  that  the  process  of  reform 
of the Security Council deserves to be taken seriously 
and  responsibly.  We  believe  that  it  provides  us  with 
the express possibility to transform the United Nations 
into a more effective and representative Organization, 
aimed at improving its capacity to respond effectively 
and  diligently  to  threats  to  international  peace  and 
security. This new session presents us with a renewed 
opportunity to be ambitious, thereby making us able to 
achieve  a  more  responsible,  transparent  and  inclusive 
Council.  We  are  convinced  that  now  is  the  moment 
for  us  to  agree  on  a  reform  that  has  the  capacity 
to  adjust  to  the  current  international  geopolitical 
context  and  the  constant  changes  that  are  manifested 
within  that  context,  highlighting  the  principles  of 
democracy  and  representativeness,  which  have  been 
and which we consider to continue to be cornerstones 
of the Organization.
17-37096
3/12
A/72/PV.43 
08/11/2017
It is on that foundation that we build our position, 
reflected in what was expressed by the representative 
of Italy on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group 
(see  A/72/PV.41),  which  proposes  an  increase  in  the 
number of seats in the Security Council, but only in the 
category  of  non-permanent  members,  with  the  option 
of  long-term  seats  with  the  possibility  of  immediate 
re-election and greater regional representation. In this 
way, the African people would have the greatest number 
of seats. It would also provide greater opportunities for 
participation  for  smaller  countries  and  small  island 
States. We believe in the need to create the conditions 
that  would  allow  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  to  have  an  equal  opportunity  to  participate 
within the Council.
In that same vein, we cannot leave aside the issue 
of the veto. So far, the use of the veto has undermined 
the  Council’s  credibility  in  its  decisions  and  has 
curtailed  the  responsibility  to  protect  those  most 
vulnerable,  as  well  as  its  ability  and  effectiveness  in 
ensuring  global  peace  and  security.  Costa  Rica  has 
advocated  on  multiple  occasions  for  prohibiting  the 
use  of  the  veto,  especially  in  situations  involving 
violations  of  international  humanitarian  law,  crimes 
against humanity or genocide, in line with the code of 
conduct proposed by the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency group, which already has 114 signatories 
and for which we reiterate our unequivocal support. We 
also  support  the  French-Mexican  initiative.  For  these 
reasons,  Costa  Rica  believes  that  the  privilege  of  the 
veto  should  not  be  extended  to  any  new  members  of 
the Council, as we believe that it generates inequality, 
restricts decision-making and causes immobility, thus 
having a negative impact on the Council’s effectiveness.
As  a  result  of  the  foregoing,  we  have  repeatedly 
respectfully appealed to countries to move away from 
positions  that  focus  on  increasing  the  category  of 
permanent members with veto rights, which we consider 
contrary  to  the  call  for  democracy,  alternation  and 
transparency, which we all want. That is why we invite 
the Assembly to consider an intermediate position that 
would  allow  us  to  finally  address  the  discussions  on 
the points of convergence that, until now, we have been 
identifying and on which we are convinced that we can 
continue to build.
annual 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  should  be,  as  we  have  said  before,  an 
exercise  in  flexibility,  commitment  and  consensus-
building. Costa Rica is ready to continue talking and to 
The 
exercise  of 
consider intermediate positions where we have as our 
main motivating factor the achievement of a Security 
Council  that  is  truly  representative  and  effective  in 
carrying  out  its  key  tasks,  in  favour  of  international 
peace, security and stability. We hope to achieve a more 
efficient Organization that responds adequately to the 
current  global  environment  and  whose  fundamental 
objective is the general welfare of all its members.
Mr. Musayev (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I would 
like to thank you, Mr. President, for convening today’s 
debate  on  agenda  item  122,  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Security Council”.
We  welcome  the  appointment  of  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Georgia and the United Arab Emirates 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations and 
assure them of our full support. We also commend the 
contribution made by their predecessors, the Permanent 
Representatives of Romania and Tunisia.
The  interest  of  the  international  community  in 
the  earliest  possible  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
is  obvious.  It  arises  from  the  threats  and  challenges 
that the world faces nowadays and from the functions 
of  the  Security  Council,  on  which  Member  States 
conferred  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance 
of international peace and security, asking for it to act 
on  their  behalf,  as  provided  for  by  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. The general view is that the Security 
Council needs to be reformed in order to reflect current 
realities and ensure its transparent, efficient, effective 
and accountable functioning.
In  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome,  the  Heads 
of  State  and  Heads  of  Government  supported  early 
reform of the Security Council as an essential element 
of the overall effort to reform the United Nations so as 
to  make  it  more  broadly  representative,  efficient  and 
transparent, thereby further enhancing its effectiveness 
and the legitimacy and implementation of its decisions. 
We note the gradual progress in the intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  the  active  engagement  of  Member 
States  in  the  process,  despite  remaining  extensive 
differences  and  disagreements  on  the  substance.  The 
process  of  negotiations  should  build  on  the  work  that 
has  already  been  done,  with  a  view  to  increasing 
convergence and ensuring the widest possible political 
acceptance and support.
4/12 
17-37096
08/11/2017 
A/72/PV.43
The  discussions  during  the  previous  session  have 
produced an important outcome, reflected in the latest 
version  of  the  elements  of  commonality  and  issues 
for  further  consideration  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  We  hope 
that  such  an  outcome  will  contribute  to  taking  the 
intergovernmental negotiations forward and achieving 
the much-needed reform of the Security Council.
Expanding the membership of the Security Council 
while  maintaining 
the  effective  and  operational 
functioning  of  the  Council  could  help  enhance  its 
authority  and  ensure  its  greater  legitimacy,  provided 
that  such  an  expansion  is  based  on  fair  and  equitable 
geographical  distribution,  taking  into  account  the 
equitable 
representation  of  developing  countries, 
including  small  States,  as  well  as  of  unrepresented 
and underrepresented regions and groups, in particular 
the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States.  We  support 
Africa’s  increased  and  enhanced  membership  in  the 
Security Council.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  go 
hand  in  hand  with  the  improvement  of  its  working 
methods  and  decision-making.  We  commend 
the 
Security Council for adopting the note by the President 
of  the  Security  Council  (S/2017/507)  on  30  August. 
Further efforts in that direction, including through the 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural Questions, are needed in order to enhance 
the Council’s efficiency and transparency, as well as its 
interactions and dialogues with non-Council members. 
We  believe  that  such  efforts  will  also  promote  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  itself.  Indeed,  there 
is  much  to  do,  and  the  reasons  the  Council’s  rules  of 
procedure  have  remained  provisional  for  decades  are 
self-explanatory.
It  is  important  to  give  the  larger  membership 
of  the  United  Nations  more  opportunities  to  be 
heard.  Apart  from  open  debates,  informal  interactive 
meetings also provide opportunities for dialogue with 
non-members  of  the  Council.  We  take  positive  note 
of  some  developments  in  that  regard.  The  Security 
Council  should  be  a  more  collaborative  body,  taking 
into  consideration  that  both  permanent  and  elected 
members of the Council bear collective responsibility 
for international peace and security.
Another  important  issue  is  the  implementation  of 
decisions  adopted  by  the  Security  Council.  Needless 
is 
intolerable 
to  say,  the  lack  of  proper  attention  by  the  Council 
to  the  apparent  disregard  and  misinterpretation  of 
its  resolutions  containing  binding  demands  cannot 
constitute an accepted practice of its working methods. 
It 
that  armed  aggressions  against 
sovereign States and the resulting military occupation 
of  their  territories  continue  despite  Security  Council 
resolutions. As to the relationship between the Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  it  is  essential 
that  both  organs  uphold  their  respective  functions  to 
maintain  due  balance  and  complementarity,  in  full 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the 
reform of the Security Council should be decided by the 
general membership through inclusive and transparent 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and  should  address 
the  positions  and  concerns  of  all  Member  States. 
Azerbaijan looks forward to engaging constructively in 
that process.
Mr.  Duarte  Lopes  (Portugal):  At  the  outset,  I 
would like to commend the stewardship provided by the 
Permanent Representatives of Tunisia and Romania as 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations during 
the seventy-first session and welcome the appointment 
of this year’s co-Chairs, the Permanent Representatives 
of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  to  whom  I 
convey my best wishes and support for the challenging 
work ahead.
With regard to Security Council reform, Portugal 
believes that the process should be inclusive, transparent 
and comprehensive, and result from a wider consensus, 
not  just  the  two  thirds  of  the  General  Assembly 
required by the Charter of the United Nations. Among 
other  provisions,  Portugal  deems 
that 
consideration  be  given  to  increasing  the  numbers  of 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  members.  In 
our view, and in order to reinforce inclusiveness without 
affecting  efficiency,  the  expansion  of  the  number  of 
seats for potential new permanent members should not 
include the right to the veto.
important 
We also believe that the creation of any additional 
category,  other  than  the  existing  permanent  and 
non-permanent  members,  would  not  contribute  to  the 
effectiveness  of  the  decision-making  process.  The 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  should  also  include 
continuous  improvement  of  its  working  methods. 
Portugal  has  been  an  advocate  of  this  objective,  in 
2012, as a non-permanent member of the Council and 
17-37096
5/12
A/72/PV.43 
08/11/2017
Chair  of  the  Working  Group  on  Documentation  and 
Other  Procedural  Questions,  as  well  as  through  the 
Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group.
As 
the  United  Nations  organ  with  greater 
responsibilities  in  the  area  of  international  peace 
and  security,  the  Security  Council  needs  reform  that 
reflects the realities of the world today. As my Prime 
Minister  recalled  in  this  year’s  general  debate  (see 
A/72/PV.8), Portugal believes that the African continent 
should  be  adequately  represented  in  both  categories, 
and  with  regard  to  other  continents,  we  believe  that 
Brazil  and  India  are  two  unavoidable  examples.  In 
implementing  the  rotation  principle,  we  also  have 
to  ensure  opportunities  for  small  and  medium-sized 
countries. We hope that this exercise will constitute an 
opportunity to narrow our focus on what can unite us, 
build broader common ground and make further efforts 
towards a comprehensive consensus.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  commend  you, 
Mr.  President,  for  your  efforts  and  for  committing 
your leadership to the intergovernmental process. For 
our part, rest assured that we are ready to continue to 
engage actively and constructively in this process.
Mr. Ntwaagae (Botswana): Let me at the outset join 
other  delegations  that  have  preceded  me  in  sincerely 
congratulating  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening  this 
important  meeting  on  Security  Council  reform.  Sir, 
my  delegation  welcomes  your  appointment  of  the 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
Arab  Emirates  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  assure 
them of the full support of the Botswana delegation.
Mr. President, convening this meeting at an early 
stage of your tenure demonstrates your eagerness and 
commitment  to  commencing  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  I  also  applaud  the  co-Chairs  for  having 
accepted that honourable responsibility and pledge the 
full support of my delegation for and cooperation with 
their  efforts  to  advance  the  negotiations  on  this  very 
important question, which has remained on the agenda 
of the General Assembly for a very long time.
Botswana  also  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone  on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/72/PV.41).
Botswana reaffirms its commitment to the Common 
African  Position  on  the  proposed  Security  Council 
reforms, as enshrined in the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the  Sirte  Declaration,  which  calls,  first,  for  Africa’s 
full participation in all decision-making organs of the 
United  Nations,  particularly  in  the  Security  Council, 
which is the principal decision-making organ charged 
with  the  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace and security.
Secondly, it calls for the full representation of Africa 
in the Security Council, including the allocation of no 
fewer than two permanent seats with all the prerogatives 
and privileges of permanent membership, including the 
right of veto, and the allocation of five non-permanent 
seats.  We  strongly  believe  that  the  comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council will make the Council 
more  inclusive,  democratic  and  representative  of  all 
regions of the world, thereby correcting the historical 
injustice emanating from the exclusion of the African 
continent  from  the  permanent  category,  as  well  as  its 
underrepresentation in the non-permanent category.
As  previous 
indicated, 
speakers  have 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  have  been  protracted 
because  of  the  complexities  of  the  issues  relating 
to  the  categories  of  membership,  the  question  of 
veto,  regional  representation,  the  size  of  an  enlarged 
Security Council, the working methods of the Council 
and the relationship between the Security Council and 
the General Assembly. We are pleased to note that in 
recent years there has been a convergence of views on 
some of the positions and proposals made by Member 
States and regional groups, and the Common African 
Position continues to enjoy cross-regional support from 
the entire United Nations membership.
There is broad consensus that the Security Council 
reform  should  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  It  is  also  widely  believed  that 
the reforms will enhance the Council’s accountability, 
transparency,  legitimacy  and  effectiveness  in  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
desired  outcome  is  to  ensure  the  fair  and  equitable 
representation of small, medium-sized and large States. 
However, there are divergent views on the size, scope 
and modalities of the enlargement of the Council and 
the retention of the veto.
In  that  regard,  we  urge  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations to build on the progress 
achieved  thus  far  in  the  reform  process.  To  move  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
forward,  Member 
States  should  continue  to  build  on  the  outcome 
documents that were produced during the sixty-ninth, 
6/12 
17-37096
08/11/2017 
A/72/PV.43
seventieth  and  seventy-first  sessions  of  the  General 
Assembly.  It  also  desirable,  even  imperative,  that 
Member States and regional groups adopt flexible and 
constructive positions that could assist in advancing the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
With  those  few  remarks,  I  would  conclude  by 
reaffirming Botswana’s commitment to decision 62/557 
and  other  relevant  General  Assembly  decisions  that 
seek to address the question of equitable distribution on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council.
Mr. Bessedik (Algeria): At the outset, I would like 
to reiterate the appreciation expressed by Ambassador 
Adikalie  Foday  Sumah  of  Sierra  Leone,  Coordinator 
of  the  Committee  of  Ten,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States, with which we align ourselves, for the 
interest  that  you,  Mr.  President,  have  shown  in  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the membership of the Security Council. We appreciate 
the  efforts  made  by  the  previous  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  previous 
session,  Ambassadors  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  and 
Ion  Jinga  of  Tunisia  and  Romania,  respectively.  We 
warmly  welcome  the  new  co-Chairs,  Ambassadors 
Kaha  Imnadze  and  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh,  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  respectively,  whom  we  fully  support  in  the 
upcoming session of intergovernmental negotiations.
We  are  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  achieving  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system 
that  upholds  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  line  with  decision  62/557,  which 
continues  to  be  the  basis  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  The  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
should  be  comprehensive  and  address  all  substantive 
issues  related  to  questions  of  membership,  regional 
representation  and  the  Council’s  agenda,  working 
methods  and  the  decision-making  process,  including 
the  veto,  inter  alia;  such  reform  should  garner  the 
widest possible acceptance by Member States. We also 
insist upon the critical importance of the interlinkages 
of the five negotiable clusters.
We  wish  to  reiterate  and  insist  upon  the  fact  that 
the framework document, which was circulated in July 
2015  and  which  reflects  all  of  the  different  positions 
held,  should  remain  the  main  reference  as  far  as  the 
pursuit of intergovernmental negotiations is concerned. 
Indeed, my delegation believes that we cannot take up 
the  issue  of  the  size  of  an  enlarged  Security  Council 
without  examining  the  categories  of  membership 
because an enlargement of the Council in either or both 
of  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  will 
undoubtedly affect its size. In addition, the size of an 
enlarged Council will also no doubt affect the issue of 
equitable  regional  representation.  In  other  words,  in 
order to correct the current imbalance of the Security 
Council, we must enlarge its size and take into account 
the  prolonged  historical  injustice  brought  to  bear 
against  the  African  continent.  This  explains  the  need 
for a comprehensive reform of the Security Council, as 
opposed to an intermediate reform thereof.
In 
the  current 
it 
international  context, 
is 
unacceptable  that  Africa  is  the  sole  continent  not  to 
be represented in the permanent category. At the same 
time, it is also underrepresented in the non-permanent 
category of the Council. We will therefore continue to 
demand  the  allocation  of  no  less  than  two  permanent 
seats to Africa, with all the prerogatives and privileges 
of  permanent  membership,  as  well  as  a  total  of  five 
non-permanent  seats.  The  issue  of  the  selection  of 
such  representatives  should  not  be  instrumentalized 
by some stakeholders; it is a sovereign decision for the 
African  Member  States  to  make.  I  would  remind  the 
Assembly that the African Union has its own competent 
mechanisms mandated to select candidates to serve in 
multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations.
On the other hand, we insist on the importance of 
improving the working methods of the Security Council. 
With  regard  to  the  relationship  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Council,  we  reiterate  that  while 
close cooperation is needed, each body must uphold its 
respective mandates, as provided for by the Charter of 
the  United  Nations,  in  order  to  maintain  balance  and 
efficiency in the actions by the United Nations.
My  delegation  regrets  that  the  paper  on  the 
elements  of  commonalities  and  issues  for  further 
consideration  from  the  previous  session  did  not  fully 
reflect  the  Common  African  Position  on  Security 
Council  reform.  My  delegation  expected  that  the 
co-Chairs  would  underline  that  the  Common  African 
Position has garnered wide political acceptance during 
the  current  intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  is 
why our continent needed to be allocated seats in both 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of  the 
Council.  We  look  forward  to  the  continuation  of  the 
discussion in the framework of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  during  the 
17-37096
7/12
A/72/PV.43 
08/11/2017
seventy-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We 
also  look  forward  to  the  outcome  document  of  this 
meeting  and  hope  that  we  will  build  on  the  progress 
made so far.
As  part  of  the  African  Group  and  the  Group 
of  Arab  States,  we  stand  ready  to  constructively 
engage  with  you,  Mr.  President,  the  new  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  the  entire 
United  Nations  membership  so  as  to  advance  the 
intergovernmental 
towards 
comprehensive  reform,  as  stipulated 
in  decision 
62/557.  We  aim  to  achieve  an  equitable  geographical 
representation and an increase in the membership of the 
Security Council, with an expansion in both categories, 
contributing, as a result, to the enhanced legitimacy of 
its decisions in the eyes of both the general membership 
and international public opinion.
negotiations 
process 
We  believe 
in  a  more  representative,  more 
democratic  and  more  transparent  Security  Council, 
with, ultimately, enhanced authority and effectiveness, 
so  that  there  is  greater  transparency  and  legitimacy 
in  its  debate.  My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  should  be  webcast, 
as  is  now  the  case  for  the  debate  in  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group on the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Ramírez  Carreño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  delegation  of  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela welcomes the decision 
of the President of the General Assembly to appoint the 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
Arab  Emirates  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  express  our  full  support  to  them  to 
contribute  to  the  achievement  of  credible  progress  on 
such an important issue of the United Nations agenda. 
Likewise, we extend our appreciation to the Permanent 
Representatives  of  Romania  and  Tunisia  for  the  work 
that  they  carried  out  within  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations during the past session.
The  complexity  of  the  challenges  posed  in  the 
areas  of  peace  and  security,  economic  and  social 
development  and  human  rights  requires  a  renewed 
and  strengthened  Organization  that  allows  the  United 
Nations to provide adequate political responses in order 
to promote effective and timely solutions. Accordingly, 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations, including 
the Security Council, is one of the main pillars of the 
process  to  which  we  must  commit  in  order  for  our 
efforts to lead to success. The Security Council must be 
more  representative,  democratic  and  transparent,  and 
in line with the current situation in the world.
While there may be full agreement among Member 
States on the need to reform the Security Council, this 
objective has not been achieved in the more than two 
decades since the issue was added to the agenda of the 
General Assembly in 1994. We remain concerned that 
no real progress has been made towards an agreement 
on  this  matter  of  priority.  The  fact  that  negotiations 
have stalled undermines the credibility of the process 
and raises doubts about the willingness of some United 
Nations  Members  to  work  towards  reforming  the 
Council with a vision based on concrete results. That 
is why we believe that we need to reflect on what has 
been done so far and call for greater political resolve. 
In this context, after 20 years of discussions, Venezuela 
believes that we are at a sufficiently advanced stage to 
call  for  the  launching  of  a  substantive  process  based 
on  a  negotiated  draft  text  with  a  view  to  achieving 
tangible results.
On  the  question  of  a  possible  and  unavoidable 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council, 
we believe that the reform process should ensure that 
countries  from  the  developing  world  are  included, 
in  particular  those  from  Africa,  Latin  America,  the 
Caribbean, Asia and the Middle East. A larger Security 
Council should include different geographical, political 
and cultural realities, mainly from the developing world, 
bearing  in  mind  the  need  to  represent  the  historical 
aspirations of our regions. Similarly, Venezuela would 
be  interested  in  a  possible  amendment  to  the  Charter 
so  that  the  non-permanent  members  in  the  Council 
could  be  re-elected  for  a  period  no  longer  than  two 
consecutive years.
Persistent inconsistencies in the Security Council’s 
working  methods  mean  that  we  cannot  postpone 
decisions  that  would  ensure  greater  participation  by 
Member  States  in  Council  discussions  and  which 
would  enable  Member  States’  views  to  be  taken  into 
account  in  the  decision-making  process.  It  is  quite  a 
contradiction that, while peace is an issue that affects 
the entire membership of the Organization, there is no 
open  consideration  of  items  on  the  Council’s  agenda, 
owing  to  the  rigid  opposition  from  some  permanent 
members. Open meetings should be the rule and not the 
exception, which has unfortunately been the case.
8/12 
17-37096
08/11/2017 
A/72/PV.43
Similarly,  the  absence  of  a  definitive  set  of  rules 
of  procedure  and  the  discretionary  nature  of  this 
organ’s operations in accordance with some permanent 
members’ interests has a negative impact on the working 
methods  of  the  Council.  That  is  why  we  call  for  the 
adoption of final rules of procedure so that the Council 
can act with a sense of equity, balance and transparency.
Furthermore,  we  cannot  fail  to  mention  our 
concern over the abuse of the use of sanctions, which 
are  sometimes  resorted  to  hastily  and  on  political 
grounds, which is contrary to the peaceful settlement 
of conflicts, in situations where there is no real threat 
to  international  peace  and  security.  It  is  the  case  that 
approximately  70  per  cent  of  the  Security  Council 
sanction  committees  deal  with  fraternal  countries 
in Africa.
Although  we  recognize  that  sanctions  work  well 
as a last resort for shifting conflict situations towards 
peace,  we  should  nevertheless  focus  primarily  on  the 
means of peaceful settlements of disputes. Similarly, we 
believe that sanctions should have a limited time frame, 
be periodically reviewed and set forth clear criteria for 
their being lifted. We believe that a country cannot be 
indefinitely subjected to sanctions without taking into 
account  how  the  State  concerned  is  cooperating  or 
without consulting experts.
Throughout  its  history,  decision-making  in  the 
Council  has  been  criticized  for  being  contrary  to  the 
principle of sovereign equality of States. Although we 
recognize that some permanent members have used the 
veto  responsibly,  we  cannot  deny  that  sometimes  the 
veto has become an obstacle to solving long-standing 
conflicts, such as the case of Palestine, where the United 
States has used the veto to favour the occupying Power. 
Unfortunately,  this  year  we  are  commemorating  70 
years of Al-Nakba — the expulsion of the Palestinians 
from  their  land  —  50  years  of  the  occupation  of 
Palestine  and  the  Golan  Heights  by  Israel,  and  10 
years  since  the  Israeli  blockade  of  Gaza.  This  entire 
tragedy,  which  stems  from  the  systematic  violation 
of  international  law,  international  humanitarian  law 
and  its  own  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions, has occurred and will continue to occur as 
a result of the systematic use of the veto by the United 
States  and  its  support  for  the  occupying  Power  Israel 
within the Security Council.
The  United  States  are  therefore  not  only  abusing 
their  prerogative  powers  as  permanent  members,  but 
they are distorting the very goals and raison d’être of 
the Security Council. Instead of ensuring world peace 
and contributing to the peaceful resolution of conflicts, 
the  Council  has  become  a  perpetrator  of  the  Israeli 
occupation of Palestine and a destabilizer of the Middle 
East and North Africa. When the United States does not 
have or cannot obtain the Security Council’s support, 
it  acts  unilaterally,  as  it  did  in  the  illegal  military 
intervention in Iraq, with the terrible consequences that 
people in the Middle East are still suffering from today.
Today, the Permanent Representative of the United 
States  used  this  rostrum  to  describe  the  General 
Assembly  as  a  political  farce.  The  fact  that  we  voted 
overwhelmingly — 191 votes in favour — to reject the 
criminal  blockade  against  Cuba  (resolution  72/4)  and 
that the same representative then says that this historic 
General Assembly decision does not matter shows that 
the United States is trying to use the Security Council to 
intervene in the internal affairs of Venezuela by using 
all kinds of tricks and manipulations and all types of 
parallel and informal processes.
The  entire  United  Nations  membership, 
the 
members of the Security Council and the countries of 
our region know that Venezuela is not a threat to peace 
and international security. We Venezuelans, as we have 
said and shown, will resolve our own issues ourselves 
in  peace,  and  we  demand  respect  for  our  sovereignty 
and  independence.  There  should  be  no  further  North 
American intervention in our affairs. The actions of the 
United States reveal their true intentions to destabilize 
our country. Latin America and the Caribbean is a zone 
of peace, and the United States will not be able to force 
us into violence and war.
The Security Council cannot be used in a way that 
differs from the idea behind its conception, namely, to 
preserve peace and international security. It cannot be 
used  as  a  tool  for  a  particular  permanent  member  of 
the Security Council, in this case, the United States, to 
further its own national interests and to destabilize our 
country. Unless such practices are ended, reforming the 
Security Council will serve no purpose.
In  conclusion,  Venezuela  reaffirms  its  support 
for the shared goal of reforming the Security Council 
without  distorting  its  purpose  or  character,  which  is 
an  important  element  in  the  process  of  strengthening 
the  Organization.  We  cannot  have  a  renewed  and 
revitalized Organization unless we have truly reformed 
the  Security  Council.  We  cannot  have  organs  within 
17-37096
9/12
A/72/PV.43 
08/11/2017
the United Nations, such as the Security Council, that 
act  in  breach  of  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
reformed. I can assure the Assembly that my country 
will continue to actively engage in the negotiations. The 
co-Chairs and you, Sir, can count on our full support.
Mr. Pecsteen de Buytswerve (Belgium) (spoke in 
French): At the outset, I thank you, Sir, for convening 
this meeting.
Security  Council  reform  is  important  for  the 
credibility  and  smooth  functioning  of  the  United 
Nations. Reforming the Security Council is necessary 
in order to make it more representative, effective and 
transparent. That is an objective that we hold dear and 
that I believe is shared by all.
This  is  not  the  place  to  reiterate  the  position  of 
my country on the specifics of Council reform. Those 
positions are well known and reflected in the document 
circulated  in  2015  by  President  Kutesa  and  in  the 
elements of the convergence paper distributed in 2016 
and 2017 by Presidents Lykketoft and Thomson. I would 
simply like to underline the importance of increasing the 
representativeness of the Council by enabling African 
countries  in  particular  to  take  their  rightful  place  on 
the Council and ensuring the effective participation of 
small  and  medium-sized  Member  States  in  the  work 
of  an  enlarged  Council.  Given  the  growing  inclusion 
of  regional  organizations  in  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council, we also believe that we should take that aspect 
into account in our considerations on Council reform.
transparent  manner 
Progress has been made in recent years. We must 
continue on that basis. Allow me to reiterate our special 
thanks  to  our  colleagues  from  Romania  and  Tunisia, 
and  Luxembourg  before  them,  for  the  impartial, 
effective  and 
they 
chaired  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  reform 
at  recent  sessions  of  the  Assembly  General.  We  hope 
that the substantial elements of commonality that were 
identified  at  the  last  session  will  be  useful  in  future 
negotiations  and  a  source  of  inspiration  for  further 
reconciling our positions in the future, with a view to 
the comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
in  which 
I  congratulate  our  colleagues,  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates, Ambassador Kaha Imnadze and Ambassador 
Lana Zaki Nusseibeh, for their appointment as co-Chairs 
of the intergovernmental negotiations at this session.
We must all contribute if we are to make headway. 
Belgium  is  convinced  that  if  Member  States  engage 
and negotiate in good faith, the Security Council can be 
Mr.  Abulhasan  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  I  thank  you,  Mr.  President,  on  behalf  of 
my  delegation  for  your  letter  to  Member  States  dated 
30 October 2017, highlighting your eagerness to move 
forward the intergovernmental negotiations on Security 
Council reform.
We  also  welcome  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Kaha 
Imnadze,  Permanent  Representative  of  Georgia,  and 
Mrs. Lana Zaki Nusseibeh, Permanent Representative 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
negotiations. We will give them our full support as they 
lead the intergovernmental negotiations at this session, 
which is as important as previous ones.
Since  we  began  our  discussions  to  reform  the 
Security Council 24 years ago, a number of international 
and  regional  initiatives  have  been  launched  regarding 
the five elements of reform, as set out in decision 62/557. 
That  has  given  us  momentum  to  move  forward  on 
proposals made in the intergovernmental negotiations. 
Nevertheless,  obstacles  remain.  We  do  not  have  the 
political  will  necessary  to  unite  our  viewpoints  and 
achieve  our  common  objective,  especially  on  the 
part  of  the  five  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council. There is an increasing number of international 
challenges,  which  should  prompt  us  to  press  on  with 
the  negotiations  and  to  promote  collective  action.  All 
proposals  to  enlarge  and  reform  the  Security  Council 
should  therefore  enjoy  full  or,  at  the  very  least,  the 
broadest possible consensus.
The  position  of  my  country  on  Security  Council 
reform has not changed for many years. It is based on 
the following steadfast principles.
First, the question of Security Council reform must 
be part of a comprehensive vision that will help us to 
continue  the  process  of  reforming  all  United  Nations 
entities,  thereby  bringing  greater  complementarity 
and balance to the work of the Organization. We must 
also  strengthen  the  relationship  between  the  Security 
Council and other United Nations bodies and agencies 
without  encroaching  on  the  prerogatives  of  organs 
such  as  the  General  Assembly  or  the  Economic  and 
Social Council. The role of the Security Council must 
be  limited  to  its  mandate  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  —  maintaining  international  peace 
and security.
10/12 
17-37096
08/11/2017 
A/72/PV.43
Secondly,  any  proposal  to  reform  the  Security 
Council must be based on our common belief that the 
Council should become more representative of Member 
States  and  reflect  the  international  reality,  which  has 
changed a great deal since the inception of the United 
Nations in 1945.
Thirdly,  we  must  also  pursue  our  efforts  to 
improve the working methods of the Security Council 
by ensuring greater transparency and effectiveness in 
its work.
Fourthly,  any  increase  in  the  number  of  Council 
seats must allow small countries to be represented on 
the Council and to contribute to its work. It is therefore 
important  to  take  into  account  the  Arab  and  Muslim 
countries  that  wish  to  be  represented  commensurate 
with  their  importance  and  ability  to  defend  the 
objectives  of  the  Charter.  We  therefore  fully  support 
the  Arab  position,  which  calls  for  a  permanent  Arab 
seat enjoying the same prerogatives as other permanent 
seats.  If  the  Council  were  to  be  enlarged,  we  would 
also  call  for  appropriate  Arab  representation  in  the 
non-permanent category.
We  are  convinced  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  are  the  one  forum  where  we  can  achieve 
an  agreement  on  the  enlargement  and  reform  of  the 
Security Council, in accordance with decision 62/557, 
which laid the framework for those negotiations.
In conclusion, my country insists that any progress 
in  the  reform  process  will  require  patience  and 
flexibility,  and  that  any  measure  that  does  not  derive 
from  consensus  among  Member  States  will  pose  an 
obstacle  to  the  Organization  and  to  the  credibility  of 
the negotiations.
Mr.  Imnadze  (Georgia):  On  behalf  of  my  fellow 
co-Chair, the Permanent Representative of the United 
Arab  Emirates,  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh,  and 
myself,  allow  me  to  express  my  profound  thanks  for 
entrusting  us  with  the  important  task  of  facilitating 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related  to  the  Council.  It  is  indeed  an  honour  and  a 
privilege  to  be  given  this  opportunity  to  contribute 
to  a  process  that  is  so  central  to  strengthening 
our Organization.
The 
have 
come  quite  a  long  way,  and  it  would  be  naive  to 
intergovernmental 
negotiations 
underestimate  the  complexity  of  the  matter  at  hand. 
However,  throughout  the  year,  certain  elements  of 
convergence  have  been  identified,  and  we  have  all 
agreed  that  discussions  pertaining  to  reform  are  of 
vital  importance  to  a  stronger  and  more  efficient 
Organization today. The reform of the Security Council 
is  first  and  foremost  a  Member  State-driven  process. 
Therefore,  upon  Ambassador  Nusseibeh’s  return  to 
New York, we will engage with all Member States and 
groups in a transparent and inclusive manner to ensure 
that we have a credible process aimed at bridging the 
gaps. Throughout this process, we will seek the advice 
and guidance of Member States. We will all need to be 
forward-looking, focusing not only on the positions that 
have  already  been  expressed  and  are  well  known  but 
also on how to move ahead in a meaningful way.
let  me 
Finally, 
thank  our  predecessors  and 
colleagues,  Ambassadors  Ion  Jinga  of  Romania  and 
Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari  of  Tunisia,  as  well  as  the 
Ambassadors  who  preceded  them,  for  their  important 
work  in  advancing  the  cause  of  Security  Council 
reform.  Once  again,  allow  me  to  thank  everyone  for 
their kind words and shows of support to the co-Chairs, 
Ambassador Nusseibeh and myself. As the President of 
the General Assembly said yesterday, we are indeed all 
in this together (see A/72/PV.41).
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
the debate on this item.
One delegation has asked to speak in exercise of the 
right of reply. May I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes 
for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Aung (Myanmar): I take the floor to exercise 
the  right  of  reply  to  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Liechtenstein (see A/72/PV.41).
We  gather  here  to  address  the  important  issue  of 
reform of the Security Council. The process of reform 
has been going on for almost four decades, yet we have 
not  reached  an  agreement  for  meaningful  and  viable 
reform. This shows that undivided attention and avoiding 
politicization  are  essential  for  successful  reform. 
During  the  discussion,  many  delegations  highlighted 
the  same  point.  We  are  of  the  view  that  if  we  are  to 
achieve serious and successful reform, it is important 
to  change  the  mindsets  of  delegations  that  attempt  to 
exploit  this  important  issue  for  their  political  agenda. 
17-37096
11/12
A/72/PV.43 
08/11/2017
Changing their mindset will help the work of Member 
Programme of work
States for serious reform of the Security Council.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 122.
The  President:  I  would  like  to  inform  members 
that  the  consideration  of  agenda  item  131,  “Sexual 
exploitation and abuse: implementing a zero-tolerance 
policy”,  which  was  originally  scheduled  for  Tuesday, 
14  November,  has  been  postponed  to  a  later  date,  to 
be announced.
The meeting rose at 11.15 a.m.
12/12 
17-37096
