
United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
42nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 7 November 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.42
Official Records
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hilale 
(Morocco), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 122 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
Mr.  Aboulatta  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
country aligns itself with the statements delivered by the 
Permanent Representatives of Sierra Leone and Kuwait 
on behalf of the Group of African States and the Group 
of Arab States, respectively (see A/72/PV.41). I would 
like to add the following points in my national capacity.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
for convening today’s plenary meeting on the question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other related 
matters, as well as for the importance he has attached 
to  expanding  and  reforming  the  Security  Council,  as 
confirmed in his remarks at the opening of this year’s 
general debate (see A/72/PV.3).
the 
I would like to commend the efforts of the various 
co-Chairs  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
especially  Mr.  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Romania,  and  Mr.  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia,  who  co-chaired 
the intergovernmental negotiations during the seventy-
first session of the General Assembly. I would also like 
to  welcome  the  appointment  of  our  two  colleagues, 
Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Georgia,  and  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh,  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  as  the 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations during 
the  current  session,  which  shows  that  the  President 
is  aware  of  the  need  to  strengthen  Member  States’ 
confidence in the negotiations process with a view to 
building the widest possible consensus.
Egypt  is  fully  aware  of  the  need  for  a  real  and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council as part 
and parcel of reforming the United Nations system so as 
to promote the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  allow  the  Organization  to 
address  new  and  emerging  international  challenges. 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  continue 
in a transparent and inclusive manner and be Member-
driven in order to reach an agreed solution that would 
garner the widest possible political acceptance. These 
negotiations should focus on the five interrelated issues 
set forth in decision 62/557. We hope that these aspects 
will  guide  the  work  of  the  new  co-Chairs  during  the 
current negotiations.
Over the past two years, Egypt has been honoured 
to  serve  on  the  Security  Council  as  one  of  the  three 
elected  African  members  and  as  the  only  Arab 
member of the Council. The experiences that we have 
accumulated  during  this  period  have  strengthened  a 
number of our long-standing beliefs. As our term on the 
Council nears its end, I would like to recall a number 
of  these  beliefs,  as  they  might  contribute  to  success 
in  our  common  efforts,  within  the  framework  of  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37015 (E)
*1737015*
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
intergovernmental  negotiations,  aimed  at  ensuring  a 
real and comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
One  of  our  beliefs  is  that  there  can  be  no  real 
reform of the Security Council without addressing the 
dysfunction within the Council, namely, the hegemony 
that  permanent  members  wield  over  the  work  of  the 
Council  through  their  monopoly  of  the  right  to  veto. 
This situation underlines the relevance of the Common 
African  Position,  which  gives  voice  to  the  principle 
that  the  right  to  veto  should  be  eliminated.  Until  the 
veto  right  is  eliminated,  however,  all  new  permanent 
members  of  the  Council  should  be  granted  the  same 
prerogatives  and  privileges  as  the  original  permanent 
members so as to ensure fair representation, which is 
one of the main goals of the reform process.
In the same vein, we reject any piecemeal approach 
that  would  focus  only  on  increasing  the  number  of 
non-permanent  seats  or  the  number  of  categories  of 
permanent seats without addressing the right to veto in 
a manner that would ensure the equal treatment of all 
permanent members, whether they be current or future 
members. Such a piecemeal approach will not lead to a 
real and fair reform of the Security Council; rather, it 
would  exacerbate  the  current  imbalances  from  which 
the Council suffers.
Egypt is fully committed to the Common African 
Position, as set forth in the Ezulwini Consensus and the 
Sirte Declaration, which is the only position reaffirmed 
in numerous African summits. This position provides 
for a comprehensive vision for reforming the Security 
Council,  including  eliminating  the  veto  right.  The 
growing  support  for  the  Common  African  Position 
proves  that  an  increasing  number  of  Member  States 
are aware of the need to address the historic injustices 
perpetrated  against 
the  African  continent,  which 
continues to be underrepresented in both the permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories.  The  African  continent 
should  be  allowed  to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the 
Council,  particularly  with  respect  to  agenda  items 
pertaining to Africa. That is especially true given that 
the  Council  frequently  addresses  Africa-related  items 
on its agenda.
in 
the  need  to  reach  a  consensus  on  the  principles  and 
standards of reform as an important step in this regard 
and  in  a  way  that  would  strengthen  Member  States’ 
confidence 
intergovernmental  negotiations. 
Egypt stands ready to cooperate with all Member States 
so as to ensure comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council  in  a  manner  that  would  allow  the  Council  to 
carry out its effective role in maintaining international 
peace and security.
the 
Mr.  Lapouge  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  First 
of  all,  I  would  like  to  commend  the  appointment  of 
Ambassadors Lana Zaki Nusseibeh and Kaha Imnadze 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security Council reform. We know that we can count 
on their dynamism and their resolve, as well as on their 
ability  to  bring  the  views  of  delegations  together  in 
the  framework  of  constructive  dialogue.  France  will 
provide them with its full support so as to ensure the 
success of their mission.
The  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform 
within  the  General  Assembly  have  been  going  on  for 
almost two decades, and we are still far from reaching 
a successful conclusion. The process is long, difficult 
and frustrating in many ways. Nonetheless, even if the 
progress made can legitimately be seen as insufficient 
in the eyes of many delegations, including my own, such 
progress still exists. It is therefore necessary to build on 
these achievements during the seventy-second session.
Under  the  leadership  of  Ambassador  Courtenay 
Rattray, the work carried out at the sixty-ninth session 
of the General Assembly resulted in an initial concrete 
outcome  with  the  drafting  of  a  framework  document 
likely  to  act  as  a  basis  for  global  negotiations.  This 
document  has  received  the  support  and  contributions 
of a large majority of Member States. The subsequent 
work  carried  out  during  the  seventieth  session,  under 
the  leadership  of  Ambassador  Sylvie  Lucas,  made  it 
possible  to  identify  elements  of  convergence  on  two 
key points of the reform. This year, in work conducted 
at the seventy-first session led by Ambassadors Khaled 
Khiari  and  Ion  Jinga,  revealed  common  ground  on 
certain elements of the reform.
In  closing,  after  many  attempts  throughout  past 
sessions to produce documents and papers, I hope that 
efforts  during  the  current  session  will  be  focused  on 
building a common will to make real progress and build 
consensus  among  different  countries  and  groups  with 
a  view  to  reaching  an  acceptable  solution.  We  stress 
France  hopes  that  the  result  of  all  this  work  will 
serve  as  a  basis  for  the  cycle  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations that is beginning in this session in order to 
achieve decisive progress. Such progress is necessary, 
as the Secretary-General has embarked on the ambitious 
process  of  reforming  our  Organization  with  regard 
2/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
to  the  pillars  of  peace  and  security,  development  and 
the  management  of  the  United  Nations.  The  General 
Assembly must show an equally resolute commitment 
to reforming the Security Council.
this endeavour. It is indeed in the common interest of 
all Member States for the Security Council to fulfil its 
mandate and fully play its role, particularly in situations 
of mass atrocities.
In  order  to  achieve  this  decisive  progress,  my 
delegation  believes  —  as  do  a  very  large  majority  of 
delegations,  especially  those  in  the  Group  of  Friends 
on Security Council Reform — that it is now necessary 
to  begin  negotiating  a  text  as  soon  as  possible.  We 
are  counting  on  the  new  co-Chairs  to  work  in  this 
direction.  This  reform  is  indeed  crucial:  the  Security 
Council must better reflect the realities of today’s world 
while  preserving  its  executive  and  decision-making 
character, thereby bolstering its ability to fully shoulder 
its responsibilities in the maintenance of international 
peace and security.
France’s position is unwavering and well known in 
that  respect.  We  hope  that  the  Council  will  take  into 
account the emergence of new Powers that are willing 
and  able  to  assume  responsibility  for  a  permanent 
presence  in  the  Security  Council  and,  in  accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations, are able to make 
an important contribution to the work of the Council. 
To this end, France supports the candidacy of Germany, 
Brazil,  India  and  Japan  as  permanent  members  of 
the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  a  strengthened 
presence  of  African  countries  among  permanent  and 
non-permanent members.
As  President  Emmanuel  Macron  stated  in  his 
address  to  the  General  Assembly  in  September  (see 
A/72/PV.4), we need a Security Council that can make 
appropriate  and  efficient  decisions,  without  being 
hindered by the exercise of the veto when mass atrocities 
are being committed. It is in this spirit that, since 2013, 
France has proposed that the five permanent members 
of  the  Council  voluntarily  and  collectively  commit 
themselves not to resort to the veto in the event of mass 
atrocities.  This  voluntary  approach  does  not  require 
a  revision  of  the  Charter  but  a  political  commitment. 
France voiced this position through the President of the 
Republic from this rostrum in 2015 (see A/70/PV.13).
Today,  the  initiative  that  we  put  forward  jointly 
with  Mexico  is  supported  by  nearly  100  countries.  In 
the same spirit, the code of conduct developed by the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group, 
which  France  supports,  has  also  received  widespread 
support. Based on this dynamic, we hope that we will 
be able to convince other Member States to join us in 
These initiatives on the regulation of the veto, which 
look towards a more just and more responsible Council, 
are distinct and complementary to the overall reform of 
the Council, of which France is an advocate. It is our 
collective responsibility to take stock of our obligations 
in order to change the status quo in the interest of the 
United Nations. The difficulty of this reform must not 
diminish its imperative necessity.
Ms. Bavdaž Kuret (Slovenia): We find ourselves in 
this Hall once again to discuss the reform of the Security 
Council  before  we  embark  on  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. In this context, 
we would first like to thank the Ambassadors of Romania 
and Tunisia for their leadership of the process during 
the seventy-first session. We highly appreciate all the 
documents produced so far, including the elements of 
commonality and issues for further consideration on the 
question of equitable representation and increase in the 
membership  in  Security  Council  and  related  matters, 
prepared during the last intergovernmental negotiations 
session. At the same time, we wish to congratulate the 
Ambassadors of the United Arab Emirates and Georgia 
and wish them all the best in their efforts to steer the 
process forward.
Slovenia 
has 
been 
closely 
following 
all 
intergovernmental negotiations sessions, and we remain 
committed to continuing the discussions. However, we 
believe that the time has come to move forward. Early 
reform of the Security Council was supported by world 
leaders in 2005; some 12 years later, we are still debating 
it, so any reform can no longer be considered early.
Today, we wish to make some general remarks on 
the  substance  of  the  process.  The  intergovernmental 
negotiations  of  the  past  session  showed  that  there 
are  a  lot  of  commonalities  upon  which  we  can  build, 
including  the  reconfirmation  that  such  reform  is  to 
make the Council more broadly representative, efficient 
and transparent and to further enhance its effectiveness 
and legitimacy in the implementation of its decisions. 
We therefore know what our goals are, and the process 
must continue to be driven by Member States.
In  the  past  25  years  since  resolution  47/62  was 
adopted,  a  lot  has  happened  in  the  international 
community. The world has changed significantly since 
17-37015
3/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
the  end  of  the  Second  World  War  and  the  creation  of 
the United Nations, as well as since the latest changes 
in the Security Council. As representatives in a major 
international  organization,  we, 
the 
Security Council, which has the supreme responsibility 
for the maintenance of international peace and security, 
have  an  obligation  to  the  people  of  the  international 
community  for  which  the  United  Nations  exists.  We 
therefore  believe  that  membership  in  the  Security 
Council is, above all, a serious responsibility.
together  with 
On  more  concrete  issues,  Slovenia  is  in  favour 
of  expanding  the  membership  of  the  Council  in  both 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories.  When 
it  comes  to  the  category  of  elected  or  non-permanent 
members,  we  believe  that  enlargement  would  enable 
a  higher  rate  of  rotation  and  greater  democratic 
representation in the Security Council. In this regard, 
Slovenia  places  high  priority  on  the  allocation  of  an 
additional non-permanent seat for the Group of Eastern 
European  States.  In  the  past  25  years,  the  number  of 
members of the Group of Eastern European States has 
doubled, but its representation in the Security Council 
has  remained  unchanged  —  one  permanent  and  one 
non-permanent  seat.  We  also  support  additional  seats 
for African States.
There  is  a  general  agreement  that  the  Security 
Council’s enlargement would improve the representation 
of  those  that  are  underrepresented  or  unrepresented, 
guaranteeing  fair  and  democratic  representation  and 
balancing the principles of responsibility, transparency 
and efficiency. Slovenia stands in favour of a Security 
Council  seat  allocation  based  on  regional  election 
groups.  When  it  comes  to  the  size  of  a  reformed 
Council, we are of the view that the Council needs to 
be  efficient  and  transparent  and  that  its  methods  of 
work will naturally have to be changed or adapted. Of 
course, it will be up to States members of the Council 
to deal with this issue, but we think that the majority 
of  the  membership  will  agree  with  us  in  saying  that 
the  Council’s  methods  will  have  to  be  adapted  if  we 
want  it  to  be  able  to  deal  with  the  fast-changing  and 
proliferating  factors  threatening  international  peace 
and security.
As  a  member  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and Transparency group and a supporter of the French-
Mexican  initiative,  Slovenia  advocates  for  a  veto 
restriction in cases of atrocity crimes and for maximum 
self-restraint in the use of the veto in all other cases.
When it comes to the question of relations between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly, 
Slovenia  can  fully  subscribe  to  the  commonalities 
identified in the intergovernmental negotiations during 
the  seventy-first  session.  The  relationship  should  be 
mutually reinforcing and complementary. Slovenia can 
fully support the suggestions set out in the document of 
the Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations of July 
2016.  Resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the General Assembly can also be taken into account.
This statement only briefly highlights some of the 
issues.  We  will  be  able  to  continue  our  deliberations 
during future intergovernmental negotiations. However, 
let me take this opportunity to once again express our 
strong  support  for  moving  the  process  forward.  We 
believe that the best way to do this and get out of the 
current  deadlock  is  to  begin  concrete  negotiations 
based on concrete text proposals.
Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  I  wish  to  begin  by 
aligning my country with the statement delivered earlier 
by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Sierra  Leone, 
the  Coordinator  of  the  African  Union  Committee  of 
Ten on Security Council Reform, who has articulated 
the  position  of  Africa  on  this  important  issue  (see 
A/72/PV.41).
I  thank  the  President,  first,  for  convening  this 
round of intergovernmental negotiations and, secondly, 
for appointing our two colleagues, Mr. Kaha Imnadze 
of Georgia, and Mrs. Lara Zaki Nusseibeh of the United 
Arab Emirates, as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  during  the  seventy-second  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Much  will  be  expected  not  only 
from  the  President  and  the  co-Chairs,  but  from  all  of 
us during the intergovernmental negotiations process.
It has been a painfully long time since the General 
Assembly  began  considering  this  issue.  The  various 
milestones along the way, which my various colleagues 
have  referred  to,  do  not  put  us  in  a  good  light.  In 
September,  we  marked  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
conclusion  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the 
Question of Equitable Representation on and Increase 
in the Membership of the Security Council and Other 
Matters  related  to  the  Security  Council  and  the 
creation of the intergovernmental negotiations process, 
courtesy of decision 62/557, which started off as draft 
resolution A/61/L.69. Next year will mark the twenty-
fifth  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  Open-
ended Working Group, which was the precursor to the 
4/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
intergovernmental negotiations. The year after that, in 
2019, we shall mark 40 years since this item was put on 
the General Assembly agenda.
I  often  hear  us  blame  a  lack  of  political  will  for 
our  failure  to  achieve  progress,  but  whose  lack  of 
political will are we talking about? It is certainly not 
our  leaders  who  lack  political  will.  In  2000,  at  the 
Millennium Summit, our leaders could not have been 
clearer  when  they  gave  us  the  task  of  expediting  the 
reform of the Security Council. In 2005, at the World 
Summit, when marking the fiftieth anniversary of the 
United Nations, leaders expressed concern at the slow 
pace of the reform. Therefore, when it is suggested that 
there is a lack of political will, are we implying that our 
Heads of State come here, implore us to make progress 
and then turn around and give us contrary instructions 
when  they  return  to  our  capitals?  Or  are  there  other 
custodians  of  political  will  above  or  more  powerful 
than  the  Heads  of  State?  Could  it  be  that  this  lack  of 
political will exists only at the levels of our Missions 
and our administrative bureaucracies at Headquarters?
I  have  no  doubt  that  we  can  make  progress  and 
achieve  the  goals  espoused  by  our  leaders  within  a 
reasonable  time  frame.  However,  that  will  happen 
only  when  we,  at  the  level  of  our  Missions,  and  the 
various  experts  at  our  administrative  headquarters, 
actually believe in the process. The starting point is to 
believe — to genuinely believe — in the United Nations. 
We must all believe that this is our United Nations and 
that  it  is  in  all  our  interests  to  preserve  and  protect 
the United Nations and project it forward, now and in 
future.  We  need  to  believe  that  what  is  good  for  the 
United Nations is good for all of us and that what is bad 
for the United Nations is ultimately bad for all of us. We 
need to believe in the oneness of our world, our oneness 
with each other and our oneness with our world.
I am aware of the fact that today is not the day to 
start the negotiations. Our co-Chairs will advise us in 
that regard in due course. It is, however, never too early 
to caution that if we do not make fundamental changes in 
the framework and the process of the intergovernmental 
negotiations, we shall not make any more progress than 
was made before. We must reflect on what has worked 
and what has not. More importantly, we must have the 
courage  and  the  determination  to  change  that  which 
needs to be changed.
that have been issued at the end of each round of the 
intergovernmental negotiations. For the moment, those 
documents  are  merely  reference  papers  that  we  often 
cite  in  subsequent  rounds  but  which  bind  no  one  to 
anything  said  in  them.  Another  issue  that  we  need  to 
address relates to the way in which we take decisions.
Let me end with a small comment relative to those 
who argue that the veto should not be extended to new 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council.  Africa 
would have found that acceptable if the argument were 
that the veto should be abolished altogether. That is the 
ideal position contained in Africa’s Ezulwini Consensus. 
But we also believe that what is good for the goose is 
good  for  the  gander.  Africa  is  not  prepared  —  and  I 
repeat, not prepared — to accept the status of second-
class  citizen.  The  African  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council either will have no veto because the 
veto  has  been  abolished  for  all  or  they  will  have  the 
veto  as  long  as  any  other  permanent  member,  old  or 
new,  has  a  veto.  That  request  is  neither  unreasonable 
nor undeserved.
We come from a bad history — a history of slavery, 
domination,  racial  discrimination,  colonialism  and 
apartheid. Africa has always been at the bottom or the 
one left behind. We have no intention of moving into 
a  bad  future.  Africa  cannot  and  will  not  accept  to  be 
treated like a child who cannot be trusted to exercise 
the veto responsibly.
When one is not at the table, one is on the menu. 
For too long, Africa has not been at the table. We are 
tired of being on the menu.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  At  the  outset,  I  wish 
to express my appreciation to the President for having 
convened  this  important  debate  to  carry  forward  the 
dialogue  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  welcome 
his  decision  to  appoint  Ambassador  Lana  Nusseibeh, 
Permanent  Representative  of 
the  United  Arab 
Emirates, and Ambassador Kaha Imnadze, Permanent 
Representative of Georgia, to steer the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  forward.  I  also  wish  to  express 
our appreciation to Ambassador Ion Jinga, Permanent 
Representative of Romania, and Ambassador Mohamed 
Khaled  Khiari,  Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia, 
the  outgoing  co-Chairs  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations, for the exemplary manner in which they 
conducted the work of those negotiations.
the 
In my view, one thing needs to be done is to agree 
on what status we should give to the outcome documents 
The past 72 years have witnessed an extraordinary 
period  of  relative  peace  —  a  long  peace  that  is 
17-37015
5/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
unparalleled  in  human  history.  The  United  Nations 
created  the  conditions  enabling  peace  to  prevail  over 
war. The United Nations has grown from 51 countries 
at  its  inception  in  1945  to  193  Member  States  today, 
representing the most universal community of nations. 
The  Organization  has  delivered  aid,  supported  peace 
and cultivated norms and values the world over without 
regard  for  size  or  might.  Yet,  despite  its  numerous 
successes, we have not been able to do full justice to 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
principal organs of the United Nations continue to be 
non-representative.
The United Nations and its Security Council, which 
is the only body authorized to deploy troops under the 
United Nations banner or to take punitive action, were 
structured according to the needs and the realities of the 
time. Yet that reality has changed most profoundly. The 
world  has  changed.  The  United  Nations  has  changed. 
The  way  in  which  we  understand  security,  the  means 
to sustain peace, has changed. We have new members, 
new  approaches  and  new  dimensions.  Yet  here  at  the 
United Nations, we persist in our old ways.
Since 1979, the Maldives has maintained a consistent 
position  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
number  of  permanent  members  on  the  Council  must 
be increased. At the time of its inception in 1945, the 
United Nations had fewer members. Most countries in 
this Hall were not independent then. But now we are. 
And we are here to stay. And we deserve our say. We 
must make the permanent membership — those holding 
the veto power — more representative. We believe that 
every continent must have at least one permanent seat, 
reflecting the political and the economic realities of our 
time. The principle of equal geographical representation 
must  be  the  underlying  principle  of  our  work  as  we 
try to find a feasible formula for going forward in the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
Revising  the  number  and  the  composition  of  the 
permanent  seats  is  only  one  aspect  of  the  reform.  A 
more  important  dimension  must  be  to  increase  the 
number  of  non-permanent  seats.  We  believe  that  the 
membership of the Security Council should come from 
both  developing  and  developed  countries,  including 
small  island  developing  States,  so  as  to  reflect  the 
diversity  of  the  United  Nations  membership.  That  is 
the spirit of the formula devised in the Charter, which 
sets out two criteria: first, the contribution of Members 
to the maintenance of international peace and security 
and  to  the  other  purposes  of  the  Organization  and, 
secondly, equitable geographical distribution.
Let  us  consider  the  first  element.  Every  country 
can  bring  diversity.  Every  country  can  offer  unique 
perspectives.  While  traditional  concepts  of  security 
still constitute an important dimension, non-traditional 
emerging  threats  are  increasingly  gaining  traction 
across the world. Those threats include pandemics, the 
frequency and intensity of extreme weather events, the 
impacts of climate change, the scarcity of and associated 
competition over resources such as food, water and fuel, 
and other development challenges. Those are the new 
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security.  Those 
are the new frontiers of security.
In  order  for  the  Security  Council  to  be  able  to 
reach those frontiers, we need a diversity of viewpoints 
and  experiences  that  can  assist  us  in  addressing  such 
diverse challenges. There is therefore a need to redefine 
old  yardsticks  for  measuring  contributions  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
may be small, but we have strength in our shoulders and 
grit in our bones to carry the lofty ideals and aspirations 
that define this Organization. Diverse members that can 
contribute to such new, non-traditional understandings 
of peace and security must be included.
It is our firm belief that every country deserves an 
opportunity to serve. The second criterion — equitable 
geographical  distribution  —  is  the  cornerstone  of 
the  United  Nations.  Every  country,  be  it  mighty  or 
tiny,  rich  or  poor,  deserves  to  be  heard  and  have  a 
say.  Yet,  that  is  largely  not  the  case.  That  imperative 
is  significantly  more  valid  in  the  Security  Council, 
where every country must be heard. While new threats 
are redefining our conception of security and how we 
approach international peace, the countries that suffer 
the most are not represented.
The Maldives, for example, was the 117th country 
to join the United Nations. Of the 116 that joined before 
us,  104  have  already  served  on  the  Security  Council. 
After half a century, we have not had the opportunity 
to  do  so,  as  is  the  case  with  nearly  all  small  island 
developing  States.  We  believe  that  larger  countries, 
especially those that have served on the Council, have a 
moral and, indeed, a Charter-based obligation to ensure 
that  small  countries,  especially  those  that  have  not 
served before, get a fair chance.
We  believe  that  every  country  is  determined  to 
serve,  determined  to  make  its  contribution  in  its  own 
6/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
way  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security  and  determined  to  uphold  the  principles  of 
the United Nations. And one may ask, what is stopping 
those countries? In theory, every country has the same 
opportunity to compete. Any country can put forward 
its  candidature,  run  in  the  election  and  participate  in 
the competition.
But,  I  ask  the  Assembly  whether  the  competition 
is  fair  anymore.  For  small  States,  it  is  not  fair.  The 
competition  is  tough.  It  is  expensive.  If  a  country 
wishes  to  undertake  an  effective  campaign  for  a  seat 
on  the  Security  Council,  that  country  is  expected  to 
spend  enormous  amounts  of  money  and  resources  in 
order to secure votes. Even when a country chooses to 
not adopt such campaign practices, it is forced to do so 
in  order  to  overcome  perceptions  about  the  country’s 
capacity, about the country’s drive or passion, or about 
the country’s seriousness. Countries that cannot afford 
to spend a fortune on their campaign for the Security 
Council lose out.
We believe that that is most certainly why only eight 
small island developing States have managed to secure a 
seat on the Council since the establishment of the United 
Nations. Small countries can no longer campaign on an 
equal footing. That means that countries that need to be 
heard and countries that can bring unique perspectives 
and  fresh,  new  ideas  never  end  up  on  the  Council. 
Equitable geographical distribution increasingly looks 
like a principle with a financial price tag.
The  Maldives  can  and  will  change  that.  We  hope 
to get elected to the Council for the term of 2019-2020 
in the election to be held in June 2018. If elected, the 
Maldives  will,  in  collaboration  with  our  partners, 
build  a  reservoir  of  hope,  trust  and  credibility  that 
will  redefine  the  ordering  principle  in  multilateral 
diplomacy,  transforming  it  into  an  order  in  which 
right will become might. Yet, that can happen only if 
the  General  Assembly  joins  hands  in  upholding  the 
obligations  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
urge  the  General  Assembly  and  individual  Member 
States to uphold the principles that they agreed to when 
they signed up for the United Nations.
The  General  Assembly  can  do  more.  It  should 
do  more.  The  Assembly  can  accelerate  reforms  by 
creating opportunities for every country, by upholding 
the  principles  of  fairness  and  equitable  geographical 
distribution and by joining hands with the Maldives in 
crafting shared solutions for our shared destiny.
Mr. Tenya (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): We appreciate 
the  convening  of  today’s  meeting,  which  touches  on 
a  central  theme  for  the  future  of  the  Organization, 
namely,  the  issue  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
We  welcome 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Georgia, Ambassador Kaha Imnadze, 
and the Permanent Representative of the United Arab 
Emirates, Ambassador Lana Nusseibeh, as co-Chairs of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  current 
session. I assure them that they have the full support of 
my delegation.
the  appointment  of 
If anything has been evident during the long process 
of the negotiations for the reform of the Security Council, 
it  is  the  overwhelming  agreement  of  the  membership 
on  the  imperative  need  to  adapt  the  structure  of  our 
Organization  to  changes  in  the  international  context. 
We continue to observe, unfortunately, the inaction of 
the  Security  Council  in  the  face  of  serious  violations 
of  human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
which  further  affects  the  perception  of  international 
public  opinion  of  the  Council’s  performance,  thereby 
also affecting its legitimacy and credibility.
That is why the time has come to act. We cannot 
limit ourselves to reiterating our well-known national 
positions  over  and  over  again.  We  must  make  the 
necessary concessions and process the available options 
to  move  towards  real  negotiation  work.  None  of  that 
will be possible without a real commitment to obtaining 
tangible and balanced results, within the framework of 
a process that must always be transparent and inclusive.
The  remarkable  changes  that  the  international 
system  has  undergone  in  recent  decades  make  it 
imperative  to  increase  the  number  of  members  of  the 
Security  Council.  With  that  said,  such  an  increase 
should be carried out with restraint, since the possible 
gains in terms of the representativeness of the Council 
should not be undermined by a loss of efficiency in the 
performance of the Council’s work. In such efforts, it is 
essential, in our view, that special emphasis be placed 
on the expansion of seats for those regions that are not 
properly represented at present. However, as long as the 
necessary  consensus  is  reached  to  carry  out  a  deeper 
and  more  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council,  we 
would like to consider the provisional establishment of 
an intermediate category of non-permanent members of 
the Security Council that would perform functions for a 
longer period of time and could be evaluated biennially 
and re-elected for successive periods indefinitely.
17-37015
7/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
Regarding the issue of the veto, we wish to recall 
that  Peru  has  consistently  supported  commitments 
aimed  at  limiting  the  use  of  the  veto,  especially  in 
cases  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
successive acts of flagrant violations of human rights 
or international humanitarian law. We reiterate in that 
regard our support for the initiative taken by France and 
Mexico,  as  well  as  for  the  code  of  conduct  submitted 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
group, of which my country is a member.
Throughout the previous session there was a healthy 
exchange of ideas, presenting contrasting positions, all 
of which constituted, in practice, a kind of negotiation 
process. That convinces us even more of the gains that 
would  come  from  a  process  that  produced  a  text  that 
enabled us to initiate formal negotiations. We anticipate 
that  the  issue  will  see  increasing  support,  since  as  of 
today  it  has  the  backing  of  at  least  three  quarters  of 
the membership.
Furthermore,  we  have  also  seen  in  recent  months 
the  promotion  of  a  closer  link  between  the  Security 
Council and the Secretary-General of the Organization. 
A similar trend has been observed in the relationship 
between  the  Security  Council  and  the  various  bodies 
of  the  United  Nations,  such  as  the  General  Assembly 
and the Economic and Social Council, with productive 
meetings  held  by  their  respective  Presidents.  Peru, 
which will join the Security Council as a non-permanent 
member starting in January 2018, will encourage that 
type of effort, as we consider it highly beneficial for the 
Council to coordinate, integrate and generate synergies 
with other bodies.
To  conclude,  Peru  reaffirms  its  full  commitment 
to  continue  working  towards  a  lasting  and  effective 
Security Council reform.
like 
to  begin  by  acknowledging 
Ms. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  would 
the 
commitment of the President of the General Assembly 
to  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  take  this 
opportunity  to  convey  to  Ambassador  Kaha  Imnadze 
of Georgia and Ambassador Lana Zaki Nussseibeh of 
the United Arab Emirates the full cooperation of Cuba 
in the hope that the intergovernmental negotiations can 
achieve progress. We commend the efforts made by the 
co-Chairs during the previous session, the Permanent 
Representatives of Romania and Tunisia.
All  delegations  are  aware  that  the  consideration 
of  the  question  of  the  Security  Council  membership 
expansion  and  other  matters,  such  as  its  working 
methods,  which  has  had  various  designations  over 
the years, such as consultations, exchanges and, more 
recently, intergovernmental negotiations, has now lasted 
more  than  25  years.  Lately,  some  preliminary  results 
have been achieved, but, let us be clear, they have been 
extremely limited in scope, as they do not address the 
fundamental issues, on which there still remain broad 
differences. If a profound negotiating effort is not made 
on the salient issues, another 25 years will come and go 
at the Assembly without satisfactory results.
The  process  of  Security  Council  reform  must  be 
comprehensive, that is, it must include all substantive 
matters, such as, inter alia, the question of membership, 
regional representation, the agenda of the Council, its 
working methods, its decision-making process and the 
issue  of  the  veto.  The  process  must  also  achieve  the 
widest possible acceptance by Member States.
The reform must ensure that the Council’s agenda 
reflects the needs and interests of both developing and 
developed countries and is characterized by a rational, 
non-selective and non-arbitrary objective. With respect 
to  regional  representation,  the  size  of  the  Security 
Council’s  expansion  and  the  categories  of  members, 
Cuba attaches great importance to the issue of regional 
representation, given that the current composition of the 
Security Council does not reflect geopolitical realities 
and needs, therefore, to be rebalanced. There is no doubt 
at  all  that  developing  countries  are  underrepresented 
in  the  Council,  which  undermines  the  interest  in  and 
the authority and credibility of the Council. In view of 
the  aforementioned  considerations,  the  main  goal  of 
the  expansion  of  the  Council  should  be  to  rectify  the 
insufficient representation of the developing countries 
of Africa, Asia and Latin America.
In the opinion of the Cuban delegation, the expansion 
of  the  categories  should  consist  of  an  increase  in  the 
number of new permanent members from two African 
countries,  two  developing  countries  in  Asia  and  two 
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. We feel 
that  the  number  of  non-permanent  members  should 
be  increased  to  a  total  of  at  least  15  members.  The 
new  permanent  members  must  have  exactly  the  same 
prerogatives and rights as the current ones do, without 
establishing selective or discriminatory criteria. Cuba 
declares  that  the  obsolete  and  undemocratic  right 
of  the  veto  must  be  abolished.  If  it  is  not  eliminated 
immediately,  the  new  permanent  members  must  also 
have that prerogative.
8/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
If the representation of developed and developing 
countries in the Council is not expanded, the Council 
will become even less representative and therefore, less 
legitimate  and  effective.  Cuba  is  not  in  favour  of  the 
creation of new categories or subcategories of members. 
New categories would increase existing differences and 
stimulate division among the members of the Council, 
instead of contributing to its better functioning.
Cuba advocates that the Council should be expanded 
to at least 26 members. With that figure alone, the ratio 
between  members  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Member States of the United Nations would be closer to 
the ratio that it had when the Organization was founded. 
Cuba will not support any partial or selective expansion, 
nor any increase in the composition of the members of 
the Council to the detriment of developing countries.
With respect to the working methods of the Security 
Council, in particular the presentation of the Council’s 
annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly,  Cuba  regrets 
that that report remains a mere descriptive account of 
the  meetings,  activities  and  decisions  of  the  Council, 
when  the  vast  majority  of  the  Member  States  of  the 
United  Nations  has  repeatedly  expressed  the  need  for 
a comprehensive and analytical report on the work of 
that body.
We  reiterate  that  the  Security  Council  must,  in 
the  exercise  of  its  duties,  of  which  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  is  its  primary 
responsibility, as stipulated by the Charter of the United 
Nations, act on behalf of all Member States, and it must, 
therefore,  comply  with  the  obligations  established  in 
Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter,  namely,  to  submit 
special  reports  on  its  actions  for  the  consideration  of 
the General Assembly.
Cuba  reiterates  its  concern  over  the  lack  of 
transparency  and  democracy  in  the  Security  Council. 
Although  during  the  most  recent  period  there  has 
been  an  increase  in  the  number  of  public  meetings 
and  unprecedented  consultations  and  exchanges  with 
Member  States  during  the  selection  and  appointment 
process  of  the  Secretary-General,  the  trend  persists 
for the Council to work mainly in closed formats and 
make  decisions  without  addressing  the  concerns  of 
non-permanent  members.  At  present,  the  Security 
Council 
transparent,  nor  democratic, 
nor representative.
is  neither 
Urgent changes are required in its working methods 
so as to enable real participation on the part of all of its 
members in its work and decision-making process. To 
that end, its rules and regulations must be formalized, 
as they have been provisional for more than 70 years. In 
that connection, Cuba again proposes that closed-door 
consultations in the Security Council be the exception.
In  addition  to  changing  its  working  methods  and 
composition,  the  Council  must  adjust  its  functions  to 
follow  its  mandate  as  established  in  the  Charter  and 
respect  all  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
main deliberative body for the adoption of policies and 
the representation of the United Nations. The Security 
Council’s  tendency  to  consider  issues  and  assume 
functions that do not correspond to its mandate, thereby 
usurping the role assigned to other bodies, particularly 
the  General  Assembly,  must  cease.  We  underline  the 
need  to  achieve  an  adequate  balance  between  the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  pursuant  to 
the Charter.
A  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  such  as  the  one 
currently being promoted by the Secretary-General,will 
not be effective or real without an in-depth reform of the 
Security  Council.  A  truly  transparent,  representative, 
democratic and efficient body is urgently needed.
Mr. Oyarzun Marchesi (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
Allow  me  first  of  all  to  congratulate  the  two  new 
co-Chairs,  my  good  friends  the  Ambassadors  of 
Georgia and the United Arab Emirates, for having been 
assigned  the  important  responsibility  of  chairing  the 
informal intergovernmental negotiations at the current 
session. They are two splendid professionals who will, 
I am sure, be able to skilfully and effectively spearhead 
those  difficult  negotiations.  Before  beginning  my 
statement,  I  wish  to  state  that  I  fully  endorse  the 
statement made by the representative of Italy on behalf 
of the Uniting for Consensus group (see A/72/PV.41).
I will attempt to briefly respond to three questions. 
The  first  of  them  concerns  the  main  reason  for  the 
state of gridlock in which the negotiations for Security 
Council  reform  have  found  themselves  for  so  many 
years.  The  answer  is  as  complex  as  the  story  is  long 
but, in my opinion, one of the factors that has weighed 
most upon that state of deadlock is the inflexibility of 
the positions of various groups.
Nevertheless, in recent years we have appreciated 
the  fact  that  a  number  of  States  have  insisted  on 
broadening the membership of the Security Council in 
terms of both permanent and non-permanent members. 
In  the  world  today,  at  least  in  my  view,  it  is  difficult 
17-37015
9/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
to imagine or conceive what the advantages might be 
of  having  a  Security  Council  with  more  permanent 
members,  instead  of  a  Council  in  which  all  members 
are  elected.  I  believe  the  latter  would  ensure  greater 
rotation in the Council membership, which would also 
mean that a high number of States that have never been 
able to participate in the work of the Security Council 
would be able to stand for election. I also believe that 
usurping the General Assembly’s power to periodically 
elect members of the Security Council — especially if we 
broaden the permanent membership category — would 
significantly  affect  levels  of  representativeness  in 
the Council.
My second question is as to which group has shown 
greatest  flexibility  in  the  negotiation  process.  The 
Assembly is well aware that Spain belongs to the Uniting 
for Consensus group — a group that has, on more than 
one occasion, been termed a group of “spoilers” in the 
negotiations  that  have  taken  place  in  recent  years.  I 
wish to recall here that the Uniting for Consensus group 
was created a number of years ago now with a proposal 
to increase the membership of the Security Council to 
25, including 10 new elected members for a term of two 
years  with  the  possibility  of  re-election.  The  Uniting 
for Consensus group then moved from the proposal to 
increase the number of non-permanent members elected 
for two years to a new proposal circulated during the 
previous  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  8  May  to 
include a category for long-term membership seats. My 
delegation  believes  that,  with  that  new  category,  we 
would be able to reach common ground, consensus and 
understanding  on  the  substantive  issue  at  play  in  the 
negotiation process.
My third question is with respect to our overarching 
goal  with  that  proposal.  Logically,  the  first  objective 
would be to finalize the negotiations, which have been 
dragging  on  for  too  long.  However,  one  of  the  major 
goals  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group’s  proposal 
within  a  new  Security  Council  is  to  give  a  rightful 
place to and satisfy the needs of a region that has been 
neglected and maltreated within our Security Council 
today. I am referring, of course, to the African Group.
We believe that, with the proposal to have longer-
term seats and all the details previously outlined by the 
Ambassador  of  Italy,  we  would  rectify  that  historical 
injustice inflicted upon the African continent. We would 
also allow a large number of small States to stand for 
election to the Security Council. I will not go into any 
further detail here, as this is a general debate and I think 
that the positions of various delegations — particularly 
that  of  Spain  —  are  well-known.  Nevertheless,  I  will 
conclude  with  two  brief  comments  addressed  to  the 
co-Chairs of the new process.
First of all, we stress the need for transparency. As 
the Assembly is well aware, I believe that it is crucial 
that we embark upon the negotiations in the spirit of full 
transparency in order to ensure that all delegations are 
equally apprised of all the details of the reform under 
way.
Secondly, the negotiations have to be predictable, 
insofar as the leaps forward that we have managed to 
make in the past have failed to produce tangible results 
and  States  have  simply  crystallized  their  positions, 
which is not ideal. I am convinced that, thanks to the 
quality of our co-Chairs, we will see important progress 
and be able to build on the major achievements that we 
have previously accomplished.
Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
welcomes  the  appointment  by  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly of Ambassador Imnadze, Permanent 
Representative of Georgia, and Ambassador Nusseibeh, 
Permanent Representative of the United Arab Emirates, 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security  Council  reform  during  the  current  session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  We  applaud  the  President’s 
commitment  to  building  a  credible,  transparent  and 
inclusive  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  on 
Security Council reform, and China actively supports 
the co-Chairs in their work.
During  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the 
seventy-first  session,  in-depth  and  frank  discussions 
took place on the five clusters of key issues concerning 
Security  Council  reform,  guided  by  the  principle 
of  having  a  Member  State-led  process  and 
the 
package  approach.  The  constructive  momentum  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  was  maintained. 
China  commends  those developments and appreciates 
the  efforts  of  the  former  co-Chairs,  the  Permanent 
Representatives of Romania and Tunisia.
Security  Council  reform  affects  the  immediate 
interests  of  all  Member  States  and  the  long-term 
development of the Organization. It also bears on the 
future of the global collective security system. Security 
Council  reform  should  be  conducive  to  building  a 
global governance system featuring joint consultations, 
extensive participation and shared benefits, which will 
help elevate the Council’s authority and efficiency and 
10/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
lead to better delivery on its mandate as enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations.
including 
China  has  always  been  an  active  supporter  of 
the  rational  and  necessary  reform  of  the  Council  and 
advocates  that,  as  a  priority,  greater  representation 
and voice in the Council should be given to developing 
countries,  especially  the  African  States.  A  wider 
membership, 
in  particular  small  and 
medium-sized  countries,  which  make  up  the  majority 
of  Member  States,  would  enable  greater  access  to 
the  Council,  allowing  such  countries  to  be  involved 
in  its  decision-making  and  play  a  bigger  part  in 
safeguarding  international  peace  and  security.  The 
intergovernmental negotiations process is an important 
avenue  through  which  Member  States  can  exchange 
views  on  issues  concerning  Council  reform,  deepen 
their  understanding  and  narrow  their  differences. 
The  comments,  positions  and  proposals  of  the  broad 
membership  on  Council  reform  form  the  basis  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
China  supports  the  co-Chairs  in  their  efforts 
to  perform  their  functions  and  fulfil  their  duties 
pursuant  to  decision  62/557,  adhering  to  the  principle 
of  a  Member  States-led  process  and  the  package 
approach  and  encouraging  Member  States  to  engage 
in  democratic  consultations  on  the  five  clusters  of 
key issues in order to achieve the broadest consensus. 
It  is  our  hope  that  Member  States  and  the  co-Chairs 
will  work  hand  in  hand  to  contribute  constructively 
to  the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  without 
artificially  setting  deadlines  for  the  reform,  trying  to 
rush immature reform proposals through or launching 
text-based negotiations before the right conditions are 
at hand.
We should work together to maintain unity among 
Member States. Together with all parties, China stands 
ready to advance Security Council reform in a way that 
serves both the common interest of all Member States 
and the long-term interests of the United Nations.
Mr. Plasai (Thailand): Once again, we are gathered 
here to remind ourselves that the world today is different 
from what it was when the United Nations first came 
into  being  seven  decades  ago.  Today’s  geopolitical 
landscape has been transformed. Modern-day conflicts 
are  different  and  more  complex.  That  requires  us  to 
adapt. Yet the Security Council, the organ responsible 
for one of the key pillars of the United Nations activities, 
namely, the maintenance of peace and security, is the 
very one that has defied adaptation for the longest time. 
Today, we are meeting in a slightly different context. We 
are meeting at a specific juncture in time when there is 
a clear momentum for reform. We have our Secretary-
General  to  thank  for  that,  and  Thailand  supports  his 
reform  agenda,  in  particular  his  vision  to  restructure 
the peace and security architecture.
We  must  adapt  the  management,  operations  and 
structures of the Secretariat to make the United Nations 
more fit for purpose, coherent and properly aligned so 
as to prevent conflict and sustain peace. We hope that 
the  current  momentum  for  reform  is  an  opportunity 
to  inject  urgency  into  the  Security  Council  reform 
process. We are under no illusion that the reform agenda 
for  the  United  Nations  and  the  Security  Council  will 
be  challenging.  The  latter  reform,  in  particular,  will 
require a constructive, pragmatic and results-oriented 
approach  from  all  Member  States  if  we  are  to  realize 
any  progress.  Changes  are  needed  in  the  composition 
and  working  methods  of  the  Council  so  as  to  reflect 
current  realities.  Thailand  joins  other  Member  States 
in  pushing  for  those  changes  and  has  been  actively 
engaged  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
welcome the progress made during the previous session, 
which circulated the food-for-thought document, which, 
we  hope,  offers  an  excellent  template  for  text-based 
negotiations in the near future.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  appreciation 
to  Mr.  Ion  Jinga,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Romania, 
and  Mr.  Mohamed  Khaled  Khiari, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Tunisia,  for  their  hard 
work  and  dedication  throughout  the  previous  round 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  also  welcome 
the  appointment  of  Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Georgia,  and  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki 
Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  as  the  co-Chairs  for  the  upcoming 
session. We wish them every success. In our view, three 
aspects are key to the reform of the Security Council.
First,  there  seems  to  be  a  broad  convergence  of 
views  on  the  merits  of  expanding  the  membership  of 
the Council, whether through the expansion of both of 
the  existing  categories  or  through  the  introduction  of 
interim or intermediate options. We reiterate our idea, 
presented in November 2014, of an interim category of 
membership. Accordingly, aspiring permanent members 
would  have  the  opportunity  to  prove  themselves  and 
immediately  stand  for  re-election  for  a  second  term. 
If they are re-elected, a review could be conducted on 
17-37015
11/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
the  possible  expansion  of  permanent  members  based 
on  conditions  and  criteria  to  be  established.  In  line 
with  views  expressed  by  other  Member  States,  we 
agree that the size of the reformed Council should be 
in the mid-twenties. However, any expansion must take 
into  account  a  greater  and  a  more  equitable  regional 
representation, as well as the varying sizes of regional 
groups. It must also reflect the plurality and evolving 
realities of the United Nations membership.
Secondly, we are of the view that the right of the 
veto  has  been  both  an  important  safeguard  and  an 
obstacle to the unity of purpose and decisive action of 
the Council. Thailand continues to support the code of 
conduct with regard to the use of the veto, as elaborated 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
group.  We  also  support  the  French-Mexican  initiative 
on the voluntary limit on the use of the veto in cases of 
mass atrocities.
Thirdly,  we  support  strengthened  dialogue  and 
partnership  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly so as to support and enhance transparency. 
Efforts have already been made to strengthen regular 
consultations between the Presidents of the two bodies, 
and  we  commend  those  efforts.  In  addition,  members 
of  the  Council  can  do  more  to  engage  the  wider 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  on 
issues with broader impact and complexity.
Security  Council  reform  remains  unfinished.  Let 
us  use  the  current  momentum  of  the  United  Nations 
reform  agenda  to  inject  renewed  determination  into 
the process. Let us turn stumbling blocks into stepping 
stones for a reform that is acceptable to all and aligned 
with  the  rest  of  the  Organization,  so  as  to  achieve 
genuine progress in designing a Security Council with 
greater  representation,  credibility,  legitimacy  and, 
above all, effectiveness.
Mr.  Heusgen  (Germany):  Germany  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Japan on behalf of the Group of Four this morning (see 
A/72/PV.41). Allow me to add a few remarks.
In Germany, we have a saying: “The squirrel feeds 
itself slowly, but surely.” Everyone might rightfully be 
wondering  what  a  squirrel  has  to  do  with  reforming 
the  Security  Council.  Well,  the  saying  means,  first 
and foremost, that the squirrel does not give up. It will 
persevere and succeed in gathering everything it needs 
in time for winter, as all will be able to see once again in 
Central Park this year. Similar to a squirrel collecting 
acorns  and  nuts,  one  by  one,  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  have  over  the  years  collected  all  the 
elements  necessary  for  achieving  the  comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council. The pieces of the puzzle 
are all there. However, in order to achieve progress, we 
now  have  to  find  the  courage  to  rearrange  the  pieces 
and assemble the puzzle. To be able do that, we need 
a concise negotiating text that will allow us to finally 
begin concrete, results-oriented negotiations.
Let me be very honest. We all know that there are 
differing positions in the General Assembly pertaining 
to the reform of the Security Council, but, in my view, 
that is in an argument in favour of, rather than against, 
embarking  on  concrete  negotiations.  For  it  is  in  the 
framework of negotiations that we will able to narrow 
down differences, and maybe eventually bridge them.
A  startling  85  per  cent  of  Member  States  have 
requested  such  text-based  negotiations.  We  have  just 
listened  to  our  colleague  from  Thailand,  who  has 
been  asking  for  such  text-based  negotiations,  and 
our  colleague  from  Spain  speaking  on  behalf  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/72/PV.41),  who 
stated that that group has shown itself to be the most 
flexible of all groups seeking Security Council reform. 
We  should  therefore  not  lose  any  more  time.  Why? 
Because it matters, and it matters that we finally make 
progress. It matters how that central organ responsible 
for  maintaining  international  peace  and  security  is 
composed.  It  matters  whether  that  important  body 
reflects  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first  century.  It 
matters  in  terms  of  ensuring  its  future  authority  and 
the relevance of its decisions. It matters to be able to 
face  current  global  challenges  to  peace  and  security. 
It matters for our international order and for a strong 
United  Nations  at  its  core,  because  we  need  a  strong, 
legitimate  United  Nations  that  can  help  us  restore 
confidence in global governance and cooperation.
We  very  much  look  forward  to  working  together 
with  everyone,  in  particular  with  the  new  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  Ambassador 
Lana Zaki Nusseibeh and Ambassador Kaha Imnadze. 
We  congratulate  both  of  them,  and  we  also  express 
our  willingness  to  work  with  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly.
I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  on  his  strong  commitment  to 
responding  positively  to  calls  for  change.  I  can  only 
underline what the President said this morning — it is 
12/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
time for action. Let us bring our nuts and acorns together, 
survive the winter and ultimately see a luminous spring 
that brings us closer to Security Council reform.
Mr.  Matjila  (South  Africa):  My  delegation  and 
I  welcome  the  commitment  that  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly has thus far demonstrated to the long-
outstanding process aimed at the reform of the Security 
Council. We appreciate that he has identified reform of 
the Security Council as a key priority of his presidency. 
I therefore take this opportunity to reassure him of my 
delegation’s unwavering support in that endeavour and 
trust that through his leadership, considerable progress 
will be made in moving the process forward.
Allow  me  also  to  congratulate  the  incoming 
co-Chairs,  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh  and  Mr.  Kaha 
lmnadze, the Permanent Representatives of the United 
Arab Emirates and Georgia, respectively, for assuming 
the co-chairship of the intergovernmental negotiations. 
South  Africa  urges  the  co-Chairs  to  devote  all  their 
efforts  to  reinvigorating  the  negotiations  process, 
with  the  aim  of  achieving  the  momentum  needed  to 
move  discussions  on  reform  forward.  South  Africa 
firmly  believes  that  continued,  direct  and  enhanced 
engagement by Member States is required.
South  Africa  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Sierra  Leone,  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States,  and  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  on  behalf  of  the  L.69 
group  of  developing  countries  (see  A/72/PV.41).  I 
wish  to  make  the  following  additional  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
The reform of the Security Council remains of the 
utmost importance for South Africa. In 2005, with the 
adoption  of  the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  Africa  made  its 
position clear with regard to the reform of the Security 
Council. The goal is
“to  be  fully  represented  in  all  of  the  decision-
making organs of the United Nations, particularly 
in  the  Security  Council,  which  is  the  principal 
decision-making  organ  of  the  United  Nations  in 
matters relating to international peace and security”.
That  remains  our  primary  goal.  The  African 
Common  Position  is  also  very  clear  in  its  call  for 
the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the 
permanent  and 
the  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership in order to address the current inequality 
in  its  composition,  and  for  new  permanent  members 
to  be  afforded  the  same  privileges  as  the  current 
permanent members.
I  also  wish  to  stress  that,  while  Africa  remains 
the  most  marginalized  continent  with  regard  to  the 
composition of the Council, the underrepresentation of 
Latin America and Asia remains a challenge as well and 
also  needs  to  be  addressed  urgently.  The  2005  World 
Summit called for the speedy and urgent reform of the 
Security  Council,  and  South  Africa  can  only  express 
its concern that 12 years after the Summit, the process 
is  still  in  its  infancy.  Furthermore,  my  delegation 
expresses  concern  at  the  lack  of  meaningful  progress 
in the intergovernmental negotiations, and we reiterate 
our view that it is only through text-based negotiations 
that progress can be achieved by identifying points of 
convergences  and  agreement,  thereby  providing  the 
opportunity to bridge our differences.
The  framework  document  that  was  unanimously 
adopted at the sixty-ninth session and the convergence 
issues identified at the seventy-first session, as well as the 
food-for-thought document of 2017, entitled “Elements 
of commonality and issues for further consideration on 
the  question  of  equitable  representation  and  increase 
in the membership in the Security Council and related 
matters”,  which  was  produced  during  the  seventy-
first  session,  all  offer  a  solid  basis  for  text-based 
negotiations.  However,  in  order  for  those  documents 
and agreements to produce meaningful results, we need 
to adapt the way in which we have been doing business 
in the Organization. South Africa is disappointed that 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  have  turned  into 
another  open-ended  process  with  no  real  urgency  to 
its  work  and  Member  States  falling  into  the  practice 
of  issuing  statements  and  restatements  of  previously 
stated positions.
It  is  appropriate  to  underline  the  significant 
Security  Council  reform  efforts 
that  have  been 
advanced throughout the history of the United Nations. 
This  year  marks  72  years  since  the  Security  Council 
was established in 1945. It has been 52 years since the 
first and, sadly, only expansion of the Security Council. 
In  little  over  a  month  from  today,  11  December  will 
mark  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of  resolution  47/62,  which  initiated  the  process  of 
considering in the General Assembly the agenda item 
dealing  with  the  Security  Council  reform  and  the 
question of equitable representation on and the increase 
in the membership of the Security Council.
17-37015
13/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
Next year will mark exactly a decade since the start 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process,  It  will 
also  mark  13  years  since  the  World  Summit  of  2005, 
which  produced  a  unanimous  agreement  on  an  early 
reform of the Security Council. It is with deep regret 
that,  despite  those  efforts  and  processes  regarding 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  no  significant  results 
have  been  produced.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  South 
Africa wishes to propose the following.
First, we should discuss and agree on the programme 
of work of the intergovernmental negotiations process 
during  the  current  session.  We  suggest  that  attention 
should  be  given  to  developing  a  road  map  with  clear, 
implementable  time  frames  for  the  immediate  start 
of  text-based  negotiations.  Addressing  practicalities 
that  are  in  line  with  United  Nations  procedures  does 
not  undermine  the  principle  of  transparency  and 
inclusivity.  It  is  important  to  underscore  the  fact  that 
164 out of 193 countries of the United Nations want the 
immediate  commencement  of  text-based  negotiations. 
That  overwhelming  number  amounts  to  more  than 
80  per  cent  of  the  membership.  The  164  countries 
encompass  all  regions  of  the  United  Nations:  Africa, 
the  Group  of  Western  European  and  other  States,  the 
Latin American and Caribbean Group, the Asia-Pacific 
Group and the small island developing States, as well as 
some of the members of the permanent five. That vital 
point should not be ignored by anyone.
Secondly, South Africa would welcome the idea of 
having a block of time — even a week — allocated per 
element. That block of time would allow delegations to 
have sufficient time to engage in interactive discussions, 
which is the only way to achieve progress.
Thirdly,  the  idea  of  ending  the  work  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  in  June  2018,  as  has 
been  the  case  in  the  previous  two  sessions,  does  not 
promote the efficient utilization of time and denies the 
process  an  adequate  opportunity  for  full  discussions. 
It also creates the impression that there is no urgency 
to the very important and long-outstanding process of 
Security Council reform.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  my 
delegation’s commitment to working with the President 
and  other  Member  States  to  ensure  that  the  current 
session  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  is  a 
success. We reiterate our call for the current session to 
produce a fair and progressive outcome, so as to restore 
the credibility and the legitimacy of the Council as one 
of the critical organs of the United Nations.
Having  said  that,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
emphasize and reiterate the urgent need for the speedy 
reform of the Security Council. The world and the work 
of the Council have changed over the past 70 years. The 
structure runs the risk of losing legitimacy, credibility 
and acceptance should we fail to affect the necessary 
and  required  reforms.  The  current  stalemate  in  the 
Council and its glaring failure to carry out its historic 
mandate of maintaining international peace and security 
are largely attributed to its current configuration. That 
is  why  South  Africa  calls  for  urgent  practical  steps 
to  be  taken  during  the  seventy-second  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We thank Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for convening, 
during  the  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  this  debate  on  one  of  the  most  important 
pending  items  of  the  United  Nations:  reforming  the 
Security  Council  to  bring  it  in  line  with  the  twenty-
first century — a time when democracy, equality and 
inclusion must prevail. We welcome the new co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  Ambassador 
Kaha  Imnadze  of  Georgia  and  Ambassador  Lana 
Zaki  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates.  We 
express Mexico’s commitment to and cooperation with 
their efforts.
As we have reiterated for years, the reform process 
must be carried out under the principles of transparency, 
impartiality,  objectivity  and  inclusion.  It  must  take 
on  board  the  lessons  learned  in  the  previous  sessions 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  —  in  terms  of 
managing  to  create  understandings  and  the  mistakes 
made in the process that have regrettably polarized the 
membership — and thereby try to advance the reform 
process.  Mexico  recognizes  the  interest  expressed  by 
all the negotiating groups in continuing this exchange 
of  ideas.  However,  we  stress  that  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  will  require  a  genuine  political  will 
that tones down individual interests and seeks in effect 
to benefit the Organization as a whole, so that it has the 
broadest support possible.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made  by  Ambassador  Lambertini  of  Italy  on  behalf 
of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  (UfC)  group.  The  UfC 
initiative responds to the principles of resolution 62/557 
because it was formulated in good faith. It is a proposal 
14/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
of commitment to attaining a Security Council that is 
more representative, transparent, democratic, effective 
and accountable. The UfC has shown great flexibility 
and  transparency  so  as  to  achieve  the  greatest  levels 
of  agreement  possible  among  the  membership  of 
the Organization.
Our proposal is inclusive, since it seeks to provide 
opportunities  to  all  Member  States  and  regions, 
particularly  those  that  are  underrepresented  in  the 
current configuration of the Security Council, such as 
Africa. The UfC proposal even addresses the ambitions 
of some States that legitimately wish to take on greater 
responsibility in the Security Council. In this context, I 
would like to invite the General Assembly to reflect on 
the following points, in the hope that they will also be 
useful for the work to be carried out by the co-Chairs 
of the new session of intergovernmental negotiations.
First,  reforming  the  Security  Council  is  a  great 
responsibility  that  must  not  be  taken  lightly,  nor 
approached in a fragmented or partial manner. It is in 
our  hands  to  improve  the  capabilities  of  the  Council 
so  that  it  functions  according  to  the  expectations  of 
contemporary  international  society.  We  must  avoid 
preserving  the  status  quo,  but  we  must  also  avoid  a 
meaningless  reform  that  satisfies  individual  political 
aspirations,  granting  privileges  in  perpetuity  to  some 
States  based  on  simple  short-term  reasons  and  to  the 
detriment  of  the  collective  interest.  That  is  the  worst 
possible scenario, one we must not let play out.
Secondly, a Security Council with more privileged 
permanent  members  contradicts  democracy,  equality 
and  inclusion.  Increasing  the  number  of  permanent 
members goes against the need to reform the Council to 
make it more democratic, equal and efficient. We seek 
greater  inclusion  in  the  Organization,  more  rotation 
among  countries  in  decision-making  —  not  more 
privileges granted in perpetuity to selected States.
Thirdly,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must 
not  focus  solely  on  expanding  membership,  but  also 
seriously  address  the  improvement  of  its  working 
methods,  including  the  decision-making  mechanisms 
such  as  the  responsibility  in  the  use  of  the  veto.  The 
current international moment we are living as well as the 
historical record are full of reasons for the use of veto 
to  be  restricted  or  withdrawn  altogether.  The  French-
Mexican  initiative,  complemented  by  the  proposal 
of  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
group, also shows that most of the States Members of 
the United Nations want a comprehensive reform of the 
Security Council so that it does not lose its relevance to 
the international community.
Mr.  Andrianarivelo-Razafy  (Madagascar),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.
Fourthly,  expanding 
the  category  of  elected 
members — the non-permanent members — is the only 
issue on which all the regional groups and negotiators 
agree.  We  must  focus  comprehensively  on  this  aspect 
of  reform,  in  addition  to  the  working  methods  that  I 
mentioned  earlier,  rather  than  concentrating  on  or 
even trying to impose views on the issues that divide 
us.  The  proposal  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group 
to  create  only  new  long-term  non-permanent  seats 
with re-election should be a solution that satisfies the 
ambitions of States seeking broader participation in the 
Council.  This  method  is  the  only  solution  to  reform, 
and not accepting that is to block progress.
Fifthly, we regret that some negotiating groups in 
the previous session have, absurdly, called into question 
democracy and representativeness. The lack of progress 
in the negotiations process is very frustrating, but even 
more disheartening is the notion that in order to move 
forward, we must set aside principles agreed on as the 
basis for the reform of the Security Council.
Sixthly,  the  lack  of  agreement  on  the  central 
elements on which the reform should be based is a core 
impediment to beginning negotiations on a text imposed 
by  a  purported  majority.  Mexico  will  not  support 
the  start  of  negotiations  on  a  text  that  recommends 
privileges  in  perpetuity  for  some  States.  We  are  sure 
that the expertise and skill of the new co-Chairs will 
guide  our  work  without  losing  sight  of  that  guiding 
principle.  I  reiterate  Mexico’s  support  for  achieving 
that end.
Mr.  Beleffi  (San  Marino):  First  of  all,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  convening  this  annual  debate  on  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  San  Marino  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  made  by  Italy  on  behalf  of  the  Uniting 
for Consensus group. I would now like to make some 
remarks in my national capacity.
San Marino welcomes the decision to appoint two 
co-Chairs  for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform. I would like to congratulate 
the  Ambassadors  of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates for assuming the important responsibility of 
17-37015
15/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
being co-Chairs. The delegation of San Marino would 
like to ensure them of its full cooperation in all aspects 
of the work of the intergovernmental negotiations.
Even  if  wide  divergences  remain  on  critical 
issues,  we,  the  Member  States,  agreed,  in  decision 
62/557, that credible Security Council reform requires 
a  comprehensive  approach  and  that  Member  States 
must  drive  the  negotiations.  It  is  now  our  collective 
responsibility to move the process forward in order to 
find new areas of convergence among Member States.
I  would  like  to  briefly  remind  the  Assembly  of 
the  principles  upon  which,  in  our  view,  the  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  should  be  based:  democracy, 
transparency,  accountability  and  inclusiveness.  Those 
principles  should  be  integrated  into  any  reform  of 
the  United  Nations,  not  only  that  of  the  Security 
Council.  A  representative  body  is  democratic  if  its 
members are periodically elected. Regular and periodic 
elections  are  possible  only  by  increasing  the  number 
of non-permanent seats. Regular and periodic elections 
would also build a more accountable Security Council.
San  Marino  believes  that  we  should  work  on  the 
idea  of  a  compromise  solution  if  we  want  to  achieve 
a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that 
can  garner  the  broadest  possible  political  acceptance 
by  Member  States.  We  now  know  quite  well  each 
other’s perspectives on the different aspects of reform. 
We  therefore  have  to  show  flexibility  and  a  spirit  of 
compromise  to  build  a  credible  process  for  Security 
Council reform.
Mr.  Tiare  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French): 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  debate  on  agenda  item  122,  entitled 
“Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters  related  to  the  Security  Council”.  The  number 
of delegations that have already spoken or that have yet 
to take the floor serves to underline the importance of 
this topic.
I  join  others  in  congratulating  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki 
Nusseibeh  and  Mr.  Kaha 
Imnadze,  Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Georgia,  respectively,  following  their  appointment 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
We  hope  that  under  their  leadership  we  will  achieve 
tangible  results.  To  that  end,  I  assure  them  of  my 
delegation’s  support  and  full  cooperation  in  carrying 
out their tasks. I also take this opportunity to convey 
to their predecessors, the Permanent Representatives of 
Romania and Tunisia, Mr. Ion Jinga and Mr. Mohamed 
Khaled  Khiari,  respectively,  our  gratitude  for  their 
work during the seventy-first session.
With  regard  to  this  item,  my  delegation  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Union (see A/72/PV.41), which clearly outlined Africa’s 
stance  on  the  issue.  I  would  now  like  to  make  some 
observations in my national capacity.
The question of Security Council reform has been 
considered  annually  by  the  General  Assembly  for  a 
decade,  pursuant  to  decision  62/557,  which  outlined 
five points around which the debate should take place.
On equitable representation in the Security Council 
and  the  increase  in  the  number  of  its  members,  my 
delegation  wonders  whether  today  we  still  need  to 
persuade Member States of that necessity, as obvious it 
is, and because both regional groups and those created 
by  individual  Member  States  support  the  legitimate 
initiative  to  adapt  the  main  organ  responsible  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security to new 
geopolitical  realities.  The  main  body  responsible  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
must  be  more  representative,  more  responsive,  more 
democratic,  more  transparent  and  able  to  respond 
effectively and efficiently to contemporary challenges. 
Accordingly, African countries, so far underrepresented 
in the non-permanent member category, and the African 
continent, the only continent with no permanent seat, 
have a role to play in that important body, which would 
undoubtedly contribute to righting the historic injustice 
against Africa and to better establishing the legitimacy 
of the Security Council.
With  reference  to  previous  negotiations,  Burkina 
Faso  already  welcomed  the  fact  that  the  majority  of 
States  agree  on  the  need  to  increase  the  number  of 
members,  with  representation  from  Africa  within 
the  Security  Council  in  both  categories.  That  would 
enable the continent to participate in decision-making, 
particularly with regard to those affecting the African 
continent,  given  that  nearly  three  quarters  of  the 
issues  on  the  Security  Council’s  agenda  relate  to 
African  countries.  Burkina  Faso  therefore  reaffirms 
its  commitment  to  the  Common  African  Position 
enshrined  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration, and renewed at the African Union Summit 
held in Kigali in 2016.
16/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
With 
regard 
to  membership  categories,  my 
delegation  is  in  favour  of  maintaining  both  existing 
categories,  since  reform  will  eventually  lead  to  a 
better  membership  balance  for  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent seats, while strictly respecting broader 
geographical 
representation.  My  delegation  also 
favours a balanced enlargement of the two categories, in 
accordance with the African stance to which I referred.
With regard to the right to the veto, Burkina Faso 
of course aligns itself with Africa’s position — that new 
member  States  should  enjoy  the  same  privileges  and 
prerogatives as existing members, including the right of 
veto, if it is maintained, of course, and in the interests 
of fairness.
With regard to the working methods of the Security 
Council, it should be noted that they are of paramount 
importance,  because  they  determine  the  effectiveness 
and  efficiency  of  the  Council,  whose  the  primary 
responsibility  is  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security  objectively,  impartially  and  non-selectively. 
Although we recognize that efforts have been made to 
improve the working methods of the Security Council, 
we must acknowledge that much remains to be done.
On the relationship between the Security Council 
and the General Assembly, progress has been made, as 
evidenced  by  regular  meetings  between  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  rotating  monthly 
presidency  of  the  Security  Council.  However,  the 
General  Assembly  is  the  only  deliberative  body  in 
which  all  Member  States  have  an  equal  voice.  It  is 
therefore fitting that it should be given special attention 
by the Security Council. For that reason, we agree with 
the large majority of delegations that close cooperation 
and coordination between the two bodies is essential, 
in strict compliance with the prerogatives and tasks of 
each body and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  In  the  same  vein,  the 
Security  Council  needs  to  be  more  transparent  in  its 
relations with the General Assembly.
After  more  than  20  years  of  discussions  and 
13  cycles  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  no 
comprehensive, satisfactory solution has emerged from 
this major undertaking, even though all Member States 
agree on the principle of a more representative Security 
Council that is better adapted to contemporary realities 
and able to respond to crises more quickly. How much 
longer  should  we  wait?  It  is  high  time,  as  is  felt  by 
the majority of Member States, to move towards text-
based negotiations, which is the only sure way to move 
towards  a  consensus-based  solution  accepted  by  all 
Member States. My delegation therefore urges the new 
co-Chairs to consider the calls of the majority.
To that end, the documented progress made during 
the  sixty-ninth,  seventieth  and  seventy-first  sessions 
amounted  to  language  that  could  be  used  to  draft 
a  resolution  for  Member  States  to  then  consider.  In 
that  same  vein,  the  existing  points  of  consensus  and 
convergence among regional and other groups, because 
they  have  already  been  presented,  are  assets  that  we 
possess  which,  if  properly  used,  will  certainly  make 
it possible to make significant progress in considering 
the issue.
Burkina  Faso  believes 
that  only  balanced 
multilateralism  will  guarantee  success  in  addressing 
the  most  serious  contemporary  problems.  It  therefore 
calls  on  all  parties  to  sincerely  negotiate  with  the 
resolute  will,  mutual  trust  and  good  faith  required  to 
achieve a reformed Security Council that is able to meet 
the expectations of States and peoples. The unanimous 
demand for reform by all Member States confirms, if 
that were still needed, a legitimate aspiration, because 
the inaction of the United Nations when faced with such 
a clear-cut situation cannot be convincingly justified.
Mr.  Djani  (Indonesia):  Let  me  first  thank  the 
President  for  convening  us  here  on  a  very  important 
topic.  I  congratulate  both  Ambassador  Imnadze  of 
Georgia and Ambassador Nusseibeh of the United Arab 
Emirates  on  their  appointment  as  the  new  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform.  We  also  express  our  gratitude  to  the 
previous co-Chairs, Ambassador Ion Jinga of Romania 
and Ambassador Khiari of Tunisia, for their important 
stewardship and contributions.
The  ability  and  credibility  of  the  Council  are 
being  widely  questioned.  The  Council’s  current 
structure, the use of the veto and, at times, its failure 
to address conflicts equally and to uphold international 
humanitarian law, international human rights law and 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations are 
among the crucial challenges that it faces in fostering 
international peace. Indonesia calls for a comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Council,  one  that  will  make  it  more 
effective,  accountable,  democratic  and  representative 
of the contemporary world’s realities and plurality.
Indonesia,  together  with  many  other  Member 
States,  has  contributed  actively  to  helping  advance 
17-37015
17/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
the  reform  process  in  a  results-oriented  manner.  We 
will  continue  to  play  a  positive  role  to  that  end,  but 
the countless reform debates leave us with little doubt 
that  overcoming  differences  on  key  issues,  such  as 
categories and the representation of countries, will not 
be easy. Concerned States make arguments according 
to their legitimate perspectives, which is of course their 
right.  However,  given  the  nature  of  current  conflicts 
and  their  grave  humanitarian  toll,  the  world  cannot 
afford to wait for the reform exercise to run its course, 
which has been long.
That  is  why  Indonesia  advocates  for  picking  the 
low-hanging fruit that can enable the Council to meet 
its  responsibilities.  We  are  pleased  that  an  increasing 
number  of  countries  are  also  emphasizing  such  an 
approach.  As  a  practical  measure  to  prevent  inaction 
by the Council in the face of genocide, crimes against 
humanity or war crimes, Indonesia supports initiatives 
that seek to regulate the use of the veto. We hope that 
there will be greater focus on that issue in the upcoming 
intergovernmental negotiations.
Furthermore, Indonesia is open to the exploration 
of all proposals that embrace an intermediate approach 
with regard to categories of members with the addition 
of  a  clear  review  mechanism.  In  our  view,  such  an 
approach has the potential to garner the widest possible 
political acceptance and move things forward.
We firmly believe that today’s many complex and 
multidimensional global challenges cannot be met unless 
the  various  regional  perspectives  are  also  reflected 
in  the  Council’s  decision-making.  The  concerns  and 
aspirations  of  the  developing  world  and  the  majority 
of its citizens should be reflected adequately. Without 
detailing our position on regional representation, which 
has been presented on many occasions, we support the 
addition of at least four non-permanent seats each for 
Asia and Africa, along with additional seats for Latin 
America and the Caribbean as well.
We fully support the Secretary-General’s call for a 
surge in political diplomacy and for a strong effort to 
set conflict prevention as an overarching priority for the 
United Nations. Indonesia also stresses the actualization 
of the deep interconnection between sustaining peace 
and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
In that regard, we underscore that the work to reform 
the  Security  Council  also  needs  to  be  linked  to  other 
reform  processes,  particularly  General  Assembly 
revitalization,  the  alignment  exercise  facilitated  by 
Australia  and  Argentina  to  enhance  synergy  between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  so  as  to  advance  the  2030  Agenda,  and  the 
restructuring of the peace and security architecture, as 
well as other United Nations management reforms.
While the Council must be reformed so that it can 
fulfil its responsibility under the Charter of the United 
Nations, sustainable peace will have the greatest chance 
of occurring when all three pillars — namely peace and 
security,  development  and  human  rights  —  work  in 
unison and are supported firmly by everyone.
Reform should also mean that more work is done 
on the working methods of the Security Council. Better 
communication and coordination are needed among all 
related bodies of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council,  including  the  organs  of  the  Secretariat.  We 
would  love  to  see  better  consultations  with  members, 
particularly  with  the  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries  (TCCs/PCCs),  which  put  their  young  men 
and  women  in  harm’s  way.  That  is  what  we  mean  by 
concrete  contributions.  I  also  believe  that  small  and 
large Member States alike deserve to have a place in the 
Security Council based on their concrete contributions.
Building on Indonesia’s track record of diplomacy, 
reconciliation  and  peaceful  conflict  resolution,  and 
as  one  of  the  top  10  contributors  of  TCCs  and  PCCs 
in  peacekeeping  efforts,  as  well  as  a  candidate  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
term 2019-2020, Indonesia is keen to assist the Council 
in meeting its responsibilities. Indonesia is determined 
to play its role fully in helping the Council achieve its 
Charter aims and to facilitate global peace, embedded 
in a holistic, synergized and practical approach.
I  would  also  like  to  support  the  comment  made 
by my colleague the Permanent Representative of San 
Marino on the need for all of us to be flexible and to 
achieve  consensus.  Let  us  not  dilly-dally  while  the 
world awaits our action.
Ms.  Argüello  González  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  are  grateful  for  the  convening  of  this 
important meeting on the negotiating process regarding 
the question of equitable representation in the Security 
Council, 
its  membership. 
We  congratulate  Ambassadors  Kaha  Imnadze  of 
Georgia and Lana Zaki Nusseibeh of the United Arab 
Emirates  on  their  appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations on the topic before us. 
increasing 
including 
18/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
We are confident that their leadership will maintain the 
dynamism and impetus that the negotiation requires.
Nicaragua aligns itself with the statement made by 
the Permanent Representative of Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines,  Ambassador  Rhonda  King,  on  behalf  of 
the L.69 group (see A/72/PV.41).
After 72 years, the Organization has not managed 
to  comply  fully  with  the  objectives  set  out  in  its 
Charter.  Faced  with  that  unfortunate  situation,  the 
call  for  reinvention  is  an  urgent  one.  To  that  end,  we 
must promote the indispensable transformations of the 
Organization  so  that  it  can  better  serve  the  interests 
of humankind.
We wish to emphasize that, during his presidency of 
the General Assembly in 2008, Father Miguel D’Escoto 
Brockmann,  Nicaragua’s  Minister  of  Peace  and 
Dignity,  developed  and  fought  for  such  a  reinvention 
until the end, laying the foundations for the discussion 
of  such  transformations.  It  is  imperative  to  carry  out 
the reform of the Security Council so as to ensure that 
its  composition  and  function  reflect  the  geopolitical 
and economic realities of the international community 
of  the  twenty-first  century,  for  which  the  expansion 
in  the  membership  categories,  including  permanent 
and non-permanent members of the Security Council, 
is essential.
It  is  urgent  that  the  negotiations  enter  a  more 
dynamic  phase.  It  is  urgent  that  a  negotiating  text  be 
prepared so as to achieve the necessary convergences 
and  proceed  with  reforms  during  the  seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly. We consider it vital to 
negotiate on the basis of a text, so that we can carry out 
real negotiations with sincere efforts by all interested 
parties.  After  many  years  of  participation  in  the 
negotiations,  we  are  ready  and  prepared  to  negotiate. 
It is time for concrete results. At least 180 States have 
declared their positions since 2009, and at least 164 of 
them support negotiations based on a negotiating text. 
We cannot ignore those numbers, hence the urgent need 
for  a  basic  draft  text  to  help  us  achieve  the  required 
convergences and proceed with the reforms.
Nicaragua  will  continue  to  support  efforts  to 
reform  the  Security  Council.  The  vast  majority  of 
the  international  community  has  underscored  that 
the  status  quo  is  not  an  option.  We  cannot  continue 
to obstruct a final decision in the reform process. We 
hope  that  the  leadership  on  the  part  of  the  co-Chairs 
will  be  decisive  in  overcoming  the  labyrinth  that  has 
consumed  so  many  years.  They  can  count  on  the  full 
collaboration  of  Nicaragua  in  their  noble  task.  There 
is every need to have an open and in-depth reflection 
process aimed at the crucial transformation, reinvention 
and democratization of the United Nations.
Mr.  Hilale  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the  outset,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze  and  Ms.  Lana 
Nusseibeh,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Georgia 
and  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  respectively,  on  their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the question of equitable representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the  Security 
Council. My delegation assures them of our full support 
as they carry out their work.
We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  outstanding 
work  carried  out  by 
the  previous  co-Chairs, 
Mr. Ion Jinga, Permanent Representative of Romania, 
and  Mr.  Mohamed  Khiari,  Permanent  Representative 
of Tunisia. That work culminated in the drafting of a 
discussion  paper  that  takes  stock  of  the  convergences 
and divergences in the positions of Member States on 
the question of Security Council reform.
My delegation endorses the statements (see A/72/
PV.41)  made  by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  and  by  the 
representative  of  Kuwait  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
Arab States.
During  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-first 
session, we witnessed an increasingly urgent call from 
a large majority of delegations to continue negotiations 
on Security Council reform. Nevertheless, in our view, 
it  is  crucial  to  prevent  the  process  from  being  never-
ending. We must reach agreement on specific modalities 
with a clear timetable for further work.
to  ensure 
that 
effectiveness, 
We  agree  that  it  is  time  for  the  international 
the  Security  Council 
community 
demonstrates 
representativeness, 
accountability  and  transparency  in  its  work,  and  that 
it is a Security Council that underscores its ability to 
reflect  the  concerns  of  all  Member  States.  Everyone 
agrees  that  the  reform  of  the  Council  should  be 
comprehensive and not gradual, and that it should take 
into account the five key elements with no exceptions 
and without distinctions.
17-37015
19/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
The  way  in  which  the  Security  Council  currently 
operates  has  led  to  a  situation  where  for  years  now 
several  voices  within  the  international  community 
have been calling for its revision and its improvement 
through  a  tangible  expansion  that  would  improve 
its  transparency  and  effectiveness.  We  call  for  a 
Security  Council  that  is  more  representative,  but  we 
believe  that  any  expansion  of  the  Council  should  not 
be  at  the  expense  of  its  effectiveness,  efficiency  and 
accountability. For us, the expansion of the Council in 
both categories is an absolute necessity. However, that 
is a thorny issue, one that must be carefully considered 
and managed.
However,  the  injustice  done  to  Africa  in  the 
design of the Security Council is apparent to us all. It 
means that we should address that without further ado. 
Strengthening Africa’s presence within the category of 
non-permanent members and ensuring its representation 
in the permanent-member category would deliver justice 
to our continent and would provide a positive response 
to the request put forward, nearly unanimously, by the 
vast majority of Member States.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  designates  the 
Security Council as the principal organ responsible for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
That is a clear, unequivocal mandate with no ambiguity. 
Any  support  of  the  General  Assembly  in  matters 
pertaining to peace and security can be seen as positive 
only if it is in line with the respective mandates of those 
two bodies.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s support to the two co-Chairs. I hope that 
during  this  session  the  intergovernmental  negotiation 
process  — 
the  real  platform  for  dialogue  and 
constructive exchanges — will make it possible to iron 
out the points of divergence and reconcile the positions 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  reform  of  the  Council  to 
which we aspire actually materializes.
Mr.  Mažeiks  (Latvia):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening  this  annual  debate  on  Security  Council 
reform. Since the 2005 World Summit, the call for an 
early  reform  of  the  Security  Council  has  been  made 
many  times,  just  as  there  have  been  many  appeals  to 
make  the  Council  more  representative,  efficient  and 
transparent in order to reflect the political realities of 
the  twenty-first  century.  Security  Council  reform  is 
long overdue, and we should all seek to strengthen the 
legitimacy of that important body.
This  is  the  tenth  year  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  note 
that some progress was achieved during the past three 
sessions  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  each 
resulting  in  an  outcome  document  that  clarifies  the 
positions  of  Member  States  regarding  various  aspects 
of Security Council reform. First, the 2015 framework 
document reflected the positions of more than half of 
the Member States. A year later, the intergovernmental 
negotiations tried to formulate elements of convergence 
covering certain aspects of the reform. At the latest such 
session,  the  co-Chairs  prepared  a  document  entitled 
“Elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for  further 
consideration on the question of equitable representation 
and increase in the membership in Security Council and 
related matters”. We appreciate the efforts of all former 
Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations to help to 
inform its work, just as we appreciate the support of the 
former and current Presidents of the General Assembly 
to advance the reform.
Latvia  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  appoint  Ms.  Lana  Nusseibeh,  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  and 
Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Georgia,  as  co-Chairs  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
We wish them success in that important task, and we 
are  committed  to  working  with  them  and  with  other 
Member States in order to facilitate real reform.
the 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  have  yet  to 
produce  the  concrete  outcome  of  a  true  negotiation 
process.  We  believe  that,  rather  than  entering  into 
yet  another  cycle  of  discussions  and  restating  well-
known positions, the time is right to take the process 
a  step  further  and  to  start  text-based  negotiations  on 
the  reform.  While  we  believe  that  a  wide  majority  of 
States Members of the United Nations share that view, 
we fully trust our distinguished co-Chairs to confirm 
such an assessment in a way that they find appropriate.
We  do  not  expect  the  negotiations  to  be  fast  and 
easy. The result can be achieved only through careful 
consensus-building  and  must  receive 
the  widest 
political  acceptance.  Latvia  is  ready  to  take  part  in 
such  negotiations  aimed  at  achieving  long-awaited 
Security Council reform, which should be the goal of 
our deliberations.
Moving on to specific aspects of the reform, in our 
view,  all  regions  must  be  adequately  represented  in 
20/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
the Council so as to ensure its legitimacy. The reform 
should ensure equitable geographic distribution of both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  in  the  Council, 
including  the  allocation  of  at  least  one  additional 
non-permanent seat to the Group of Eastern European 
States. We also believe that during the nomination and 
election of non-permanent members of the Council, due 
consideration should be given to adequate representation 
of small and medium-sized Member States.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  question  of  the  veto 
represents  a  very  important  part  of  the  reform. 
Discussions on the use of that special power in certain 
circumstances should be continued. Yet aspects of the 
problem are by now beyond debate. Blocking the work 
of the Council in matters related to mass atrocities is 
unacceptable.  Council  members  should  refrain  from 
using their veto in situations of atrocity crimes. Latvia 
has  signed  the  code  of  conduct  regarding  Security 
Council  action  against  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes, and we are happy to see that 
more than half of the United Nations membership has 
done so as well.
We also support improving the Security Council’s 
working  methods  so  as  to  increase  the  transparency, 
inclusiveness and representativeness of its work. That 
would enhance the Council’s legitimacy and facilitate 
the implementation of its decisions.
to  address 
In  conclusion,  Latvia  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  capacity 
the  current  global 
challenges  depends  largely  on  the  political  will  of 
Member  States  to  move  forward  Security  Council 
reform. That is long overdue, and we should all strive 
to strengthen the legitimacy of that important body. It is 
time to move forward and achieve a concrete outcome 
in  that  process.  We  hope  that  the  upcoming  session 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  will  achieve 
progress in that regard.
Ms. Flores Herrera (Panama) (spoke in Spanish): 
First  of  all,  I  welcome  the  decision  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  convene  today’s  meeting 
on  agenda  item  122,  entitled  “Question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related 
to  the  Security  Council”.  The  need  to  pursue  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  seventy-
second session of the General Assembly reflects, in no 
uncertain terms, the desire of more than 97 per cent of 
Member States.
We  commend  the  President’s  appointment  of  our 
colleagues  Mrs.  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh,  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  and 
Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Georgia, to serve as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations, which represents not only a good choice 
but  also  demonstrates 
the 
President has made to try to ensure gender quality in 
carrying  out  his  work.  We  wish  the  co-Chairs  every 
success in facilitating the process, which they will, we 
know,  skilfully  carry  out,  and  we  assure  them  of  our 
unyielding support and readiness to work constructively 
to achieve the goals ahead. Likewise, we acknowledge 
the  commendable  work  of  Ambassadors  Khiari  and 
Jinga as co-Chairs during the previous session.
the  commitment 
that 
to 
The  Security  Council  was  born  as  the  result  of  a 
cataclysm  in  the  history  of  humankind  —  from  the 
ashes  and  the  suffering  of  a  World  War.  Despite  the 
changing  nature  of  our  world  over  the  past  72  years, 
the  Council  has  been  substantively  overhauled  only 
once.  Although  the  Security  Council  has  succeeded 
in  preventing  another  conflict  of  a  global  scale,  we 
are witnessing today the proliferation of humanitarian 
crises  that  also  know  no  borders  and  present  great 
challenges 
international  peace  and  security, 
including  the  protracted  and  ongoing  tragedy  of 
refugees,  the  threat  of  terrorism  becoming  the  status 
quo,  and  constant  challenges  to  the  disarmament 
agenda in all its aspects. Those situations, which affect 
so  many  people,  in  particular  the  men,  women  and 
children  whom,  in  keeping  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, we made a commitment not 
to  leave  behind.  That  is  more  than  enough  reason  to 
give greater impetus to reforming the sole organ of the 
United Nations whose decisions are binding and strictly 
enforceable. The inertia of the Security Council in its 
decision-making is measured in human lives every day, 
and the Organization cannot allow that.
The  review  of  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council  and  other  related  matters  is  an  essential 
component in efforts to revitalize the Organization and 
make it more fit for purpose pursuant to the noble agenda 
that we are already implementing. It is a fundamental 
issue  that  concerns  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
international  security  and  is  intrinsically  linked  to 
sustainable  development.  Panama  believes  that  the 
time has come for the reform of the Security Council 
to  become  an  effective  reality,  thereby  becoming  the 
fourth  pillar  sustaining  the  comprehensive  overhaul 
17-37015
21/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
of the United Nations, in addition to the reform of the 
development system, which is the most advanced, the 
reform  of  the  peace  and  security  architecture  and  the 
reform of management, which we have entrusted to the 
Secretary-General.
The  Security  Council  needs  to  be  revitalized  not 
only  to  reflect  the  world’s  current  composition,  but 
also  in  order  for  it  to  be  effective,  transparent  and 
accountable  to  the  international  community.  Most 
important,  a  successful  reform  would  send  a  clear 
message  that  our  common  global  interests  supersede 
individual  national  interests.  By  safeguarding  the 
credibility  of  the  Security  Council  with  regard  to  the 
resolution of conflicts, we will safeguard the continued 
relevance of the multilateral system for the world. The 
practical  implementation  of  the  code  of  conduct  on 
limiting the use of the veto in the Security Council will 
bring us closer to reforming that body, because it will 
progressively erase the distinctions between permanent 
and non-permanent, elected members.
As  we  have  said  before,  Panama  hopes  to  see  a 
Security  Council  that  in  2045,  which  will  mark  the 
United  Nations  centennial,  will  be  composed  of  26 
members,  all  on  equal  standing,  elected  every  three 
years, with the possibility of consecutive re-elections. 
The  intended  effect  is  to  bring  together  various 
positions  around  the  table,  giving  a  greater  voice  to 
underrepresented regions in the current composition of 
the Council, such as Africa and small island developing 
States. The intent is to dismantle the paradigm that we 
have  been  discussing  so  that  we  can  move  forward. 
The  paradigm  I  am  speaking  of  is  one  composed  of 
permanent and non-permanent, elected members.
(spoke in English)
Let me repeat Panama’s vision in English so that it 
is absolutely clear. By the time of the United Nations 
centennial in 2045, Panama envisions a Security Council 
consisting of 26 members, all on equal standing, elected 
for three-year terms, with the possibility of consecutive 
re-elections.
(spoke in Spanish)
Our proposal can be found on PaperSmart.
During this session, let us use the intergovernmental 
negotiations to move beyond the status quo and come 
up with a text on the basis of which we can negotiate 
towards  achieving  the  much-desired  reform  of  the 
Security Council. Let us move beyond the discussions 
that we began more than 20 years ago about the urgent 
need to reform the Council.
in 
the 
reforming 
For its part, the delegation of Panama will continue 
intergovernmental 
to  participate  actively 
negotiations  process  on 
the  Security 
Council, in keeping with our mission to build bridges, 
while  trying  to  bring  together  those  with  positions 
that  are  clearly  polarized.  We  believe  that  there  are 
more elements that unite us than divide us. That is our 
commitment to “We the People” — “We, the peoples of 
the world” — to whom we are duty-bound.
Mr.  Vitrenko  (Ukraine):  Let  me  begin  by 
expressing  our  full  support  for  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  and 
the way forward that he has presented for the ongoing 
intergovernmental negotiations. I would like also to join 
others in congratulating the Permanent Representatives 
of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates  on  their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  on  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, and in wishing them every success in moving 
forward the intergovernmental negotiations.
During 
the  previous  session  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  we  achieved  considerable  progress  in  our 
deliberations on Security Council reform, as reflected 
in the food-for-thought paper prepared by the previous 
co-Chairs,  which  includes  commonalities  and  issues 
for  further  consideration.  We  share  the  view  that 
continuing our discussions in such a constructive and 
coherent way will help in our efforts to achieve long-
awaited progress in Security Council reform.
My delegation is ready to discuss all the proposals 
already  put  forward  by  delegations  during  previous 
rounds of negotiations, so that we can identify those that 
might receive major support in the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council.  The  General  Assembly 
unanimously adopted decision 62/557, calling on us, in 
our work on the Security Council reform, to build upon 
the discussions held during previous General Assembly 
sessions, including proposals and positions reflected in 
the framework document circulated on 31 July 2015. In 
that regard, we believe that there is already a solid basis 
for beginning text-based negotiations in order to arrive 
at a shorter, more precise framework document as the 
most immediate outcome of our deliberations.
I  will  not  go  into  all  the  details  of  our  position, 
since  it  is  well  known  and  duly  reflected  in  the 
framework  document.  Yet,  as  a  current  elected 
22/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
member of the Security Council and as a country that 
has  experienced  at  first  hand  the  shortcomings  of 
the  Council’s  existing  working  methods  and  format, 
which  directly  influence  its  record  in  safeguarding 
international  peace  and  security,  Ukraine  deems  it 
necessary to reiterate our position on several important 
aspects of Council reform.
First,  increasing  the  representative  character  of 
the  Security  Council  is  one  of  the  top  priorities.  Yet 
it  should  not  be  an  obstacle  to,  or  in  any  way  delay, 
reaching  agreement  on  other  areas  of  the  Council’s 
reform or the practical implementation of such reform.
Secondly,  we  strongly  believe  that  any  formula 
for  the  Council’s  enlargement  should  include  the 
provision  of  an  additional  non-permanent  seat  for  the 
Group of Eastern European States, whose membership 
has more than doubled in size in the past decades. We 
are  encouraged  that,  during  our  intergovernmental 
negotiation  discussions,  several  groups  of  States, 
not  only  the  Eastern  European  Group,  have  clearly 
expressed  their  support  for  that  approach.  We  are 
therefore  of  the  view  that  the  addition  of  one  more 
non-permanent seat for the Eastern European Group in 
an expanded Council should be considered as one of the 
commonalities as far as regional representation goes.
the 
idea 
support 
We  also 
that  equitable 
geographical  distribution  should  be  reflected  in  an 
expanded  Council’s  membership.  My  delegation  is 
convinced  that  any  change  in  the  Security  Council’s 
composition  should  be  based  on  the  existing  regional 
groups of Member States. At the same time, we think 
that there is merit in exploring the option of allocating 
a non-permanent seat in the future Council to the small 
island developing States.
Thirdly,  on 
the  basis  of  our  own  current 
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  we  know  how 
imperative  it  is  that  elected  members  be  able  to  play 
a  more  active  and  effective  role  in  the  proceedings 
and  the  decision-making  process  of  the  Council.  In 
order to enhance the transparency, accountability and 
inclusiveness of the Council’s work, and with a view to 
strengthening its effectiveness, my delegation considers 
it equally necessary to hold broader consultations and 
other forms of interaction with non-Council members 
on a regular basis.
The  Council  should  also  meet,  as  a  general  rule, 
in  a  public  format  and  hold  frequent,  timely  and 
substantive  open  briefings  on  the  matters  discussed 
in the Security Council and in its subsidiary organs in 
private  meetings.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  so-
called wrap-up sessions of the Council, of which there 
have  been  very  few,  one  of  which  was  held  this  year 
under  Ukraine’s  presidency  (see  S/PV.8038).  At  the 
same  time,  we  also  consider  appropriate  other  public 
formats  of  the  Council’s  meetings,  such  as  the  Arria 
Formula,  which  provides  an  opportunity  for  Council 
members  to  discuss  issues  of  the  utmost  importance 
not  only  with  concerned  Governments  but  also  with 
the  broader  United  Nations  membership,  as  well  as 
key  civil-society  actors.  All  those  and  many  other 
important  procedural  matters  were  reflected  in  the 
recently adopted revised note prepared by the President 
of the Security Council in document S/2017/507. That 
decision  should  now  be  properly  implemented  in  the 
Council’s daily practice.
I cannot but stress that, for my country, the need for 
Security Council reform is as high now as ever before. 
The continued unlawful and aggressive actions of the 
Russian  Federation  in  Ukraine,  leading  to  the  loss  of 
thousands of lives, have placed into question not only 
the security of my country but also that of all of Europe. 
The  subsequent  inability  of  the  Security  Council  to 
react promptly to that aggression because of the use of 
the right to the veto severely undermines the credibility 
of the Council and condones the very aggression that 
the Council was established to rule out.
In that regard, we would like to reiterate our firm 
position on the need to phase out the right to the veto 
as  a  major  obstacle  to  the  Council’s  ability  to  act 
effectively  in  response  to  challenges  to  international 
peace  and  security.  As  one  of  the  signatories  to  the 
French-Mexican  declaration  on  the  restriction  of  the 
veto power, as well as the related code of conduct, we 
believe  that,  while  abolishing  the  veto  is  a  long-term 
objective,  all  members  of  the  Council  —  permanent 
and elected alike — must voluntarily pledge not to vote 
against  draft  resolutions  in  cases  of  mass  atrocities, 
genocide  and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  same 
approach should be implemented in cases of war crimes 
and  foreign  aggression.  That  is  why  it  is  important, 
in the course of the Council’s reform, to envisage the 
responsibility  of  a  party  to  a  conflict  to  abstain  from 
voting on a Council decision concerning the resolution 
of that conflict.
Finally,  let  me  assure  the  President  and  the 
co-Chairs  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  for  their 
17-37015
23/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
challenging assignment to steer the intergovernmental 
negotiations process.
Mr.  Al-khalifa  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
delegation  of  Qatar  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
for  having  convened  this  meeting.  We  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  commendable  efforts  of  the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Tunisia  and  Romania, 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations during 
the  seventy-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
We  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Georgia  as  co-Chairs 
of 
the 
current session.
intergovernmental  negotiations  during 
the 
We align ourselves with the statement made by the 
representative of the Group of Arab States (see A/72/
PV.41).
the  maintenance  of 
The  international  community  places  great  hopes 
on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  because  the 
Council is the primary organ within the United Nations 
responsible  for 
international 
peace  and  security  and  the  only  organ  within  the 
United Nations that has the authority to adopt binding 
resolutions  and  take  collective  enforcement  measures 
under the Charter of the United Nations. More than 20 
years after the start of discussions on the reform of the 
Council,  and  after  the  submission  of  many  proposals 
and initiatives, despite the difficulties and the obstacles 
encountered in that process Council reform continues 
to  be  a  priority  for  Member  States.  Success  in  the 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations hinges on 
the reform of the Security Council as one of the pillars 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  delay  in  that  reform  calls 
for greater cooperation among the groups and countries 
interested  in  reform  and  involves  rethinking  in  order 
to  accelerate  negotiations  so  that  we  can  agree  on  a 
number of proposals that would render the new Council 
more effective in implementing its mandate to maintain 
international peace and security.
The  State  of  Qatar  is  committed  to  the  common 
responsibility of States to reach international consensus 
on  issues  of  interest  to  the  international  community 
and to provide an opportunity for an informal dialogue 
that  would  move  forward 
intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. To that end, 
in January, my country hosted the Doha retreat on the 
reform of the Security Council, in which geographical 
groups  and  interested  countries  took  part.  The  Doha 
the 
talks reaffirmed that the reform of the Security Council 
is not the responsibility of specific groups of countries 
but that of the entire international community.
The  State  of  Qatar  underscores  the  interlinkages 
among  all  aspects  of  the  negotiations.  There  are  also 
elements of commonality pursuant to decision 62/557, 
which was adopted by consensus. Any attempt to reform 
the Security Council will therefore not be successful if 
it is limited to one aspect and ignores the other aspects.
We  therefore  reiterate  that  the  issue  of  the  right 
to  the  veto  is  a  crucial  element  in  the  reform  of  the 
Council.  Experience  has  shown  that  it  is  important 
that  the  use  of  the  veto  should  be  limited  and  that 
States  should  refrain  from  using  it  in  cases  of  mass 
atrocities,  war  crimes,  genocide  or  ethnic  cleansing. 
The  arbitrary  use  of  the  veto  has  in  many  cases 
undermined the credibility of decision-making within 
the  Security  Council.  It  has  also  led  to  the  inability 
of  the  Security  Council  to  assume  its  responsibilities 
and take measures to maintain international peace and 
security.  In  that  respect,  we  reiterate  our  support  for 
the Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group 
and  the  French-Mexican  initiative  on  restraint  in  the 
use of the veto in atrocity situations. Those initiatives 
have been endorsed by more than 120 States, including 
the State of Qatar.
in  addressing 
the  Council  undermines 
in  negotiations.  Limiting  ourselves 
There  is  another  issue  of  interest  to  the  State  of 
Qatar,  namely,  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  we  believe  should  receive  more 
attention 
to 
the  working 
piecemeal  approaches 
methods  of 
important 
negotiations. The Council’s working methods must be 
reviewed  and  adapted  to  be  in  line  with  international 
law and the Charter of the United Nations. All States 
must participate in formal and informal meetings of the 
international  community.  Periodic  analytical  reports 
should  be  submitted  by  the  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly,  and  there  must  be  sufficient  coordination 
among  the  Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly 
and  other  United  Nations  organs.  Furthermore,  the 
prerogatives  of  other  organs  of  the  United  Nations 
should not be encroached upon.
In  conclusion,  the  State  of  Qatar  will  continue 
cooperating  and  working  with  Member  States  to 
constructively  and  openly  address  all  proposals  and 
ideas  arising  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process  aimed  at  making  the  Council  more  effective 
24/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
and  accountable  and  able  to  take  timely  decisions  in 
order to maintain international peace and security.
Mr. Nurudeen (Nigeria): At the outset, let me thank 
the President and the Secretariat for convening today’s 
plenary  meeting  on  agenda  item  122,  which  again 
provides us with an opportunity to share perspectives 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  and  an 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  other  matters  related  to  the  Security  Council.  I 
also thank the President for his insightful introductory 
remarks on this crucial issue (see A/72/PV.41).
The Nigerian delegation welcomes the President’s 
decision  to  appoint  Ambassadors  Kaha  Imnadze  and 
Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Georgia  and  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  respectively, 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at 
the current session. We assure the co-Chairs of our full 
support and wish them great success in their efforts to 
move  the  reform  process  forward.  We  also  commend 
the  outgoing  co-Chairs,  Ambassador  Mohamed 
Khaled Khiari of Tunisia and Ambassador Ion Jinga of 
Romania, under whose watch significant successes were 
recorded during the seventy-first session of the General 
Assembly.  We  admire  the  great  skill  with  which  they 
steered the intergovernmental negotiations process.
I wish to reiterate the fact that Nigeria aligns itself 
with the statements delivered by the Chairs of the Group 
of African States and the L.69 group, respectively (see 
A/72/PV.41). Let me, however, make a few remarks in 
my national capacity.
During  the  more  than  seven  decades  since  the 
inception of the United Nations, the world has undergone 
tremendous change, ranging from population increase, 
economic  growth  and  technological  advancement, 
among other things. During that period, new challenges 
have also emerged posing threats to international peace 
and security on a scale that has never been witnessed 
before. The imperative of the new challenges strongly 
indicates  that  the  current  structure  of  the  Security 
Council  must  be  reformed  in  order  to  reposition 
it  so  as  better  to  respond  to  issues  in  a  timely  and 
appropriate manner.
reform  of 
the  Council  would  entail  a 
restructuring and expansion of its membership to take 
account  of,  inter  alia,  the  increased  membership  of 
the  Organization  and  the  need  to  reflect  the  interests 
of all the constituent regions. To our delight, previous 
sessions  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  have 
A 
shown the emergence of broad consensus on the need for 
expansion of the membership of the Security Council in 
both the permanent and the non-permanent categories. 
Nigeria acknowledges the work already done at previous 
sessions  and  looks  forward  to  working  concertedly 
with all concerned to build on the gains made thus far. 
We  appreciate  the  contributions  of  a  large  number  of 
States whose proposals are contained in the framework 
document on the subject and, given their quality, we are 
convinced that it is high time to commence text-based 
negotiations on this critical matter.
We  are  aware  of  the  challenges  that  we  face  in 
guiding and moving the reform process forward. Given 
the difficulties experienced in bridging the differences 
in  the  varied  positions  and  in  working  out  the  modus 
operandi  for  advancing  the  process,  we  urge  Member 
States to continue to seek ways of fulfilling the political 
commitment that our leaders made at the 2005 World 
Summit, at which time Heads of State and Government 
agreed on the imperative need for early reform of the 
Security Council.
Nigeria  and  other  emerging  nations  continue  to 
demonstrate  the  capacity  to  add  value  to  the  work  of 
all  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
Security Council. For that reason, we must now commit 
ourselves  to  accelerating  the  long-overdue  reforms  of 
the Council. They will no doubt make the Council more 
equitable,  more  inclusive,  efficient,  transparent  and 
more effective. Nigeria believes that a reformed Security 
Council with expanded permanent membership would 
benefit from the unique experiences and capacities that 
regional representatives could bring to bear on its work.
Nigeria  has  always  expressed  its  support  for  the 
advancement  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process in an open, inclusive and transparent manner. As 
we prepare to move into the next round of negotiations 
during this session, we thank all delegations that have 
continued  to  express  their  support  for  the  Common 
African Position. We would like to take this opportunity 
to  reaffirm  that  African  Union  position  on  the  entire 
subject of Security Council reform, to which we adhere 
very strongly. That proposal is important, as it seeks, 
inter  alia,  to  correct  the  historical  injustice  done  to 
the  continent  and  its  continued  marginalization  over 
so many years. For that reason, we wish to underscore 
the  overriding  need  to  ensure  that  the  interests  of 
Africa  continue  to  be  advanced  and  safeguarded. 
African  States  have  offered  a  coherent,  practical  and 
persuasive blueprint for the Council’s reform. We have 
17-37015
25/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
come  up  with  our  Common  Position,  which  asserts 
the right of our continent, which has for so long been 
marginalized,  to  be  fully  represented  in  the  Council, 
just  we  recognize  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  other 
regions to be represented.
Security Council reform is inspired by the principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  itself.  The  clear 
objective  of  that  process  is  based  on  the  sovereign 
equality of all Member States and on the need to adhere 
to the principles of democratization and inclusiveness 
in the United Nations. It is undoubtedly a worthwhile 
process. We must therefore muster the desired will that 
can  lead  to  the  achievement  of  a  reformed  Security 
Council sooner rather than delaying it indefinitely. Be 
assured that my delegation will actively participate in 
all of the processes relating to Security Council reform. 
In doing so, it is important to stress that all outcomes 
should  encompass  and  take  on  board  the  views  and 
interests of all Member States.
Finally,  what  is  required  of  us  at  this  juncture 
is  to  move  the  process  forward  through  text-based 
negotiations.  There  should  be  noticeable  progress  in 
the  forthcoming  negotiations,  far  beyond  what  we 
achieved during the seventy-first session. The demand 
is legitimate and credible and made with a full sense of 
responsibility and relevance to the international system, 
and it deserves the full support of all Member States. 
We look forward with great optimism to the next stage 
of action during the seventy-second session. We assure 
the President of our full cooperation in that respect.
Mrs.  Pobee  (Ghana):  I  join  other  delegations 
in  expressing  appreciation  to  the  President  for  his 
leadership  in  the  matter  before  us  today  and  for  the 
opportunity to continue the important debate on Security 
Council  reform,  which  has  engaged  the  attention  of 
the  United  Nations  for  almost  25  years.  During  the 
high-level  general  debate  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
September,  the  issue  of  equitable  representation  in, 
and the enlargement of, Security Council membership 
was  raised  by  several  delegations,  including  the 
delegation of Ghana, thereby reaffirming the need for 
inclusive reforms that would reflect the universal and 
representative character of the United Nations.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Sierra 
Leone  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see 
A/72/PV.41). I shall now make the following remarks in 
my national capacity.
At the outset, we wish to emphasize the central role 
played by the General Assembly in this question, and 
we  welcome  our  continued  deliberation  on  this  item 
in  the  General  Assembly  at  the  current  session.  We 
congratulate  Ambassador  Kaha  Imnadze,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Georgia,  and  Ambassador  Lana 
Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  on  their  appointment  as  co-Chairs  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform. We assure them of Ghana’s active engagement 
and support in the course of this session.
Ghana, like many other delegations, attaches great 
importance to the issue of equitable representation on 
the Security Council, and over the years it has called for 
the  enlargement  of  the  Council’s  membership,  in  line 
with the African Common Position as contained in the 
Ezulwini  Consensus.  We  are  committed  to  efforts  to 
make the Council, a vital organ of the United Nations, 
more broadly representative, efficient and transparent 
so that we can enhance its effectiveness and legitimacy 
in the implementation of its decisions.
It is more evident now than ever, 72 years after the 
founding  of  the  Organization,  that  broader  political 
space is required within the Security Council so as to 
enable  it  to  address  today’s  challenges  and  fulfil  its 
mandate.  Our  loud  call  in  the  General  Assembly  for 
the reform of the Security Council is well-grounded in 
the  changing  global  landscape  and  in  the  face  of  the 
dramatic changes in the nature, scale and complexity of 
threats to international peace and security. The inability 
and  apparent  lack  of  political  will  in  the  Security 
Council  to  provide  effective  leadership  in  addressing 
some  of  the  most  urgent  and  dire  threats  to  global 
security make it imperative for us to intensify efforts to 
improve the structure and functioning of that important 
body. Ghana believes that, if we continue to allow our 
current differences to stall progress on Council reform, 
it will be to the detriment of the Organization and the 
billions of people we represent.
With  its  54  Member  States,  Africa  accounts  for 
close  to  one  third  of  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  and  70  per  cent  of  the  Council’s  work.  Many 
African countries, including Ghana, contribute troops 
to international peacekeeping, not only on the continent 
but also in other regions around the globe. In that context, 
some of our peacekeepers continue to pay the ultimate 
price with their lives in the maintenance of international 
peace and security. It is inconceivable, therefore, that 
in  the  scheme  of  things  today,  Africa  has  only  three 
26/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
seats in the non-permanent category, and no permanent 
seat. Africa’s demand for at least two permanent seats 
and two additional non-permanent seats is a matter of 
addressing the historical injustice done at the founding 
of the Organization, and of ensuring the right to an equal 
say in decision-making on issues of international peace 
and security, as well as in modernizing and improving 
global governance. The same principle should apply to 
other underrepresented regions.
As  we  all  know,  multilateralism  seeks  to  ensure 
collective security and inclusion. In our view, continued, 
substantive and enhanced engagement on the part of all 
is necessary if we wish to improve prospects for early 
reform.  We  as  Member  States  must  continue  to  work 
together, even if we differ in views, in order to move 
the  intergovernmental  negotiation  process  forward. 
Ghana therefore welcomes the elements of convergence 
that  were  identified  during  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-first  session,  and  commends  Ambassador 
Ion  Jinga,  Permanent  Representative  of  Romania, 
and  Ambassador  Mohamed  Khiari,  Permanent 
Representative of Tunisia, for their tremendous efforts 
in that regard.
We believe that there is general acceptance of the 
need to enlarge the Council membership so as to make 
it more representative and to include more developing 
countries.  Progress  on  other  reform  issues,  such  as 
membership  categories,  the  question  of  the  veto, 
regional representation, the size of the enlarged Council 
and  Council  working  methods,  may  be  complex  but 
do  not  represent  an  insurmountable  challenge.  With 
abundant flexibility, goodwill and compromise we can 
reach our goal of Security Council reform. We believe 
that the emerging consensus on various aspects of the 
reforms must be followed through, and efforts should 
be made to advance the intergovernmental negotiations 
to text-based negotiations.
With  regard  to  the  question  of  the  veto  and 
its  impact  on  the  work  of  an  enlarged  Council,  we 
would need to critically address that aspect of reform 
against  the  background  of  the  current  impact  on  the 
Council’s effective functioning. In the interim, Ghana 
continues  to  support  the  code  of  conduct  proposed 
by  the  Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency 
group aimed at preventing veto use in cases of mass-
atrocity crimes.
We  also  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General  aimed  at  restructuring  the  United  Nations 
peace  and  security  architecture.  We  hope  that  when 
those  reform  proposals  are  eventually  finalized  and 
implemented, the Organization will be better positioned 
to coordinate and seamlessly carry out its mandate with 
a  reformed,  democratic  and  representative  Security 
Council working for a secure and peaceful world.
Mr. Hickey (United Kingdom): I thank Ambassador 
Imnadze of Georgia and Ambassador Nusseibeh of the 
United  Arab  Emirates  for  taking  on  the  leadership 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform.
The  United  Kingdom  is  a  long-standing  and  firm 
supporter of the need for reform of the Security Council. 
When  the  first  meeting  of  the  Security  Council  was 
hosted  in  London,  in  1946,  there  were  11  members. 
That  membership  increased  to  its  current  15  in  1965. 
In the intervening years, the United Nations has grown 
and  the  world  has  changed.  But  the  Security  Council 
has failed to keep pace with that change. It is right and 
fair that the world’s principal organ for the maintenance 
of  peace  and  security  should  be  representative  of  the 
world  that  it  seeks  to  protect.  The  United  Kingdom 
therefore  continues  to  strongly  welcome  all  efforts  to 
move the debate on Council reform forward.
When we consider Security Council reform, we must 
be mindful of the need to ensure that its effectiveness 
is never compromised — too great an increase in size 
risks a cumbersome and slow decision-making process, 
thereby  undermining  the  Council’s  ability  to  respond 
appropriately  and  quickly  to  issues  of  international 
peace and security. With so many challenges before us, 
that is a risk we cannot take.
By  the  same  token,  we  cannot  allow  the  issue  of 
the veto to slow our progress on the expansion of the 
Council. As my Prime Minister made clear in this Hall 
in  September  (see  A/72/PV.8),  we  are  proud  to  have 
used  the  full  weight  of  our  diplomacy  to  ensure  that 
we  have  not  had  to  exercise  our  veto  in  a  generation. 
We  are  also  proud  signatories  of  the  Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency group’s code of conduct, 
and we are committed to never voting against a credible 
draft resolution on preventing or ending a mass atrocity. 
Sadly,  we  have  seen  others  wield  their  veto  through 
narrow  self-interest,  to  the  significant  detriment  of 
the Council’s reputation and, indeed, its responsibility 
to  those  who  so  desperately  need  our  help.  On  Syria, 
such  a  use  of  the  veto  has  prevented  action  against  a 
17-37015
27/29
A/72/PV.42 
07/11/2017
despicable  regime  that  has  murdered  its  own  people 
with chemical weapons.
in 
For  those  reasons,  we  believe  that  a  modest 
expansion 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories — an increase that balances representation 
with  effectiveness  —  is  the  approach  that  we  should 
collectively  pursue.  Members  will  be  aware  of  our 
support for permanent seats for Brazil, Germany, India 
and Japan, alongside permanent African representation. 
That  support  is  steadfast,  and  we  look  forward  to 
working through all available avenues in order to reach 
a more representative and effective Security Council.
Mr.  Filimonov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We thank the President for convening today’s 
meeting. The issue of the reform of the Security Council 
is  one  of  the  most  important  issues  on  the  agenda  of 
the  global  Organization,  since  it  is  the  organ  that,  in 
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
bears the primary responsibility for the maintenance of 
international peace and security.
trust 
that 
the 
We 
the  work  of 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Georgia  and  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  as  co-Chairs  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations, will be based on the principles of neutrality 
and will consider the entire gamut of positions of Member 
States.  We  thank  the  representatives  of  Romania  and 
Tunisia for their work as co-Chairs during the previous 
session of the General Assembly. They performed their 
duties in a competent and responsible manner.
Today’s meeting kicks off the start of discussions on 
the reform of the Security Council during the seventy-
second  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Discussions 
on the issue have been ongoing for many years and are 
complex in nature. To date, there have been 13 rounds 
of intergovernmental negotiations. Member States have 
made  some  slight  progress  towards  reform;  However, 
a universal solution that is able to satisfy the majority 
has not yet been achieved. The approaches of the main 
players  in  the  reform  issue  still  differ  significantly, 
and  are  sometimes  diametrically  opposed.  In  such 
circumstances,  we  do  not  see  any  alternative  but  to 
continue  the  painstaking  step-by-step  work  on  the 
rapprochement  of  negotiating  positions  during  the 
current session of the General Assembly.
Our  stance  on  the  matter  is  well  known.  Russia, 
as a permanent member of the Security Council, notes 
the  need  to  make  the  body  more  representative,  first 
and  foremost  by  including  developing  countries  from 
Asia,  Africa  and  Latin  America.  However,  efforts  in 
that direction must not be allowed to affect the ability 
of the Council to respond effectively and promptly to 
emerging challenges. In that context, we are in favour 
of maintaining the compact nature of the composition 
of the Security Council — its membership should not 
exceed the low twenties.
Any  ideas  that  would  lead  to  the  infringement  of 
the prerogatives of the current permanent members of 
the  Security  Council,  including  the  institution  of  the 
veto,  are  unacceptable  to  us.  We  must  remember  that 
this institution plays a key role in prompting members 
of the Council to seek balanced solutions. It would be 
wrong,  both  from  a  historical  and  a  political  point  of 
view, to encroach on it.
The  process  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
must be owned by all States without exception, and its 
ultimate composition should enjoy the widest possible 
support of Members of the Organization. If consensus 
cannot  be  reached  on  this  issue,  at  least  politically 
speaking, we should ensure the support of a significant 
number  of  Member  States,  more  than  the  legally 
required two-thirds majority of the General Assembly.
We  are  convinced  that  the  issue  of  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  cannot  be  resolved  solely  by 
arithmetic by putting any models to the vote in order 
to obtain the minimum number of votes necessary. A 
result achieved in that way would hardly enhance the 
prestige  and  effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council, 
and would certainly not serve to strengthen the global 
Organization;  rather,  it  would  achieve  the  contrary. 
We  are  ready  to  consider  any  reasonable  option  for 
expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council, 
including  an  interim  solution  or  one  of  compromise, 
if  it  were  based  on  broad  consensus  within  the 
United Nations.
Progress in reforming the Security Council cannot 
be  achieved  through  the  preparation  of  any  texts, 
negotiating  documents  or  other  initiatives  that  do  not 
enjoy  consensus  among  all  Member  States.  Previous 
sessions  of  the  General  Assembly  are  a  testament  to 
the  futility  and  danger  of  trying  to  force  through  a 
solution to the reform issue while ignoring consensus. 
Progress in Security Council reform will depend upon 
the  political  will  of  Member  States  alone  and  their 
willingness to reach a reasonable compromise. We urge 
all members to follow that fundamental principle.
28/29 
17-37015
07/11/2017 
A/72/PV.42
We  trust  that  the  efforts  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations will focus on providing 
the  maximum  assistance  to  the  negotiations,  on  the 
understanding that ownership of the process lies with 
Member  States.  Such  painstaking  work  should  be 
conducted in a calm, transparent and inclusive manner, 
without arbitray time frames. We must all understand 
that there is no place for arbitrary timelines regarding 
this issue, and no place for attempts to solve it with a 
stroke of a pen.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
17-37015
29/29
