United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
6th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 19 September 2017, 6.10 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.6
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Laaksonen 
(Finland), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.
Address by Mr. Maithripala Sirisena, President of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
Mr. Maithripala Sirisena, President of the Republic 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Democratic  Socialist 
Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
President  Sirisena  (spoke  in  Sinhalese;  English 
text provided by the delegation): I am very pleased to be 
able to congratulate the newly elected President of the 
General Assembly and to have the honour of addressing 
the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  the  third 
time I have done so as leader of Sri Lanka. The theme of 
this year’s session is “Focusing on people: Striving for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. 
Today,  as  we  observe  the  various  scenarios  in  play 
around the world, that slogan seems highly pertinent.
In  2015,  before  my  election  as  President  of  Sri 
Lanka,  I  made  a  number  of  pledges  to  the  people  of 
my  country.  At  that  juncture,  Sri  Lanka’s  presidency 
had  more  executive  power  than  the  corresponding 
office  in  any  other  democratic  system  in  the  world. 
Since  my  election,  the  excessive  executive  powers  of 
the presidency have  been  transferred to  Parliament in 
accordance with my pledge. I believe that the concession 
and transfer by a leader of such power to another organ 
has set an example to my country and the world.
Those of us who are leaders of democratic countries 
must safeguard democracy and use our power to work 
to build a just society. However, events of the past few 
decades — indeed, of world history generally — have 
shown that many leaders are reluctant to yield power, 
resulting  in  discord,  the  disruption  of  peace  and 
sometimes  disputes  at  the  international  level  as  well. 
For myself, I have established democracy in my country 
and  taken  action  to  eliminate  political  groups  with 
autocratic tendencies. I want to bring to the Assembly’s 
attention  my  efforts  to  ensure  democracy,  safeguard 
human  rights  and  nurture  my  people’s  fundamental 
rights during the past two and a half years.
My  Government  declared  2017  a  year  for  poverty 
alleviation,  with  a  view  to  freeing  our  country  from 
the  clutches  of  poverty,  a  major  effort  that  I  believe 
the entire world is engaged in. In that regard, we have 
launched  a  number  of  development  programmes  to 
strengthen the domestic economy.
We  are  all  aware  that  for  30  years  Sri  Lanka 
suffered  from  a  protracted  conflict  that  crippled  its 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29281 (E)
*1729281*
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
economy.  Terrorists  advocating  separatist  ideologies 
wreaked  havoc,  but  we  were  able  to  defeat  them, 
establish  democracy  and  begin  to  govern  the  country 
peacefully. But the economic legacy of the conflict was 
extremely detrimental to progress. We have learned the 
lessons of that conflict and are working to strengthen 
our domestic economy, promoting local industries and 
industrialization  with  a  view  to  achieving  economic 
development,  while  also  fulfilling  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals 
sustainable 
development a priority.
and  making 
My  country,  like  the  rest  of  the  world,  including 
the  United  States  of  America,  is  being  affected  by 
unprecedented climate and weather conditions. In that 
regard, I believe that the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change  is  crucial,  and  we  should  agree  that  ensuring 
its  implementation  is  essential  for  humankind  and 
the world.
Along  with  our  national  programme  for  poverty 
alleviation,  I  have  launched  a  new  movement,  Grama 
Shakthi,  as  part  of  our  clear  vision  and  plan  for 
consolidating  the  country’s  economy.  We  want  to 
strengthen the local economy, develop local agriculture, 
take  the  country  in  a  new  direction  and  continue  the 
economic plan between now and 2025 with rigour, with 
a view to achieving major changes in our economy.
As  we  know,  children  today  are  faced  with  many 
problems, not just in my country but all over the world. 
I have therefore launched a national programme in Sri 
Lanka  to  protect  children.  We  have  a  mammoth  task 
ahead  of  us  in  keeping  our  children  safe  from  abuse 
and  the  drug  manace.  The  protection  of  children  is 
a  matter  of  national  and  international  importance, 
and 
is 
therefore essential.
implementing  programmes 
to 
that  end 
There  is  also  much  discussion  in  the  world  about 
protecting  women’s  rights.  A  great  deal  of  attention 
has  been  focused  on  the  subject,  and  we  have  seen 
how women have been mistreated in certain societies. 
Women make up more than 52 per cent of Sri Lanka’s 
population. We have worked to protect their rights by 
amending  our  Constitution  to  establish  a  mandatory 
25  per  cent  quota  for  women  candidates  in  local 
Government elections, one of several recently adopted 
amendments  concerning  major  programmes,  along 
with those protecting children and women’s rights and 
preventing the threat posed by illegal drugs. We know 
that there is a need for an extensive global programme 
for  preventing  and  controlling  the  threat  posed  by 
drugs.  That  issue  has  become  a  major  challenge  for 
every  country  and  society,  and  I  believe  that  all  of 
humankind should join hands and come up with a joint 
programme to achieve that goal.
When my Government came to power in 2015, we 
were facing two major problems, one of which was our 
foreign debt crisis. Large sums of money were needed 
to repay our loans. On top of that, the Human Rights 
Council  was  considering  allegations  of  human  rights 
violations and raising serious concerns with regard to 
the  then  Government.  Since  then,  however,  we  have 
been  working  to  strengthen  our  domestic  economy 
and  attract  foreign  investment,  and  through  these 
programmes have been successfully paying down our 
loans. 
With  regard  to  the  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
Human Rights Council in connection with allegations 
of  human  rights  violations,  my  Government  is  now 
dealing  with  the  issue  and  making  resolving  those 
problems a priority.
Consolidating  democracy  and  protecting  and 
nurturing  human  and  fundamental  rights  constitute 
the  pillars  on  which  my  Government  has  based  its 
successful  leadership  of  Sri  Lanka  and  its  efforts  to 
establish a democratic society, and we will continue to 
strengthen those elements in the future. We have also 
worked to strengthen national reconciliation. Sri Lanka 
is home to people with different languages and different 
faiths, and we want to establish fellow feeling among 
the  various  groups  and  eliminate  hatred,  suspicion 
and  mistrust,  while  building  a  society  that  is  free  of 
such problems.
While  we  must  work  to  strengthen  our  country’s 
economy and thereby promote prosperity, we also want 
to build a country that is disciplined and has high moral 
standards.  The  rule  of  law  is  of  major  importance  in 
that  regard,  and  my  Government  has  prioritized  the 
task  of  establishing  the  rule  of  law  and  ensuring  its 
application. I should therefore emphasize that, while we 
are strengthening democracy, at the same time we are 
working to promote our people’s human rights, nurture 
their basic rights and maintain friendly relations with 
other countries. Despite the divisions that have existed 
between  Sri  Lanka  and  some  of  its  powerful  allies, 
today we maintain good relations with those countries, 
and  we  very  much  appreciate  the  assistance  of  the 
United Nations in that regard. 
2/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
As  a  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  for 
approximately  62  years,  Sri  Lanka  has  abided  by  its 
rules and regulations and complied with its conventions, 
treaties  and  agreements.  As  a  country  with  such  a 
track record of compliance as a Member of the United 
Nations, we want those good relations to continue.
I  want  to  ensure  my  country’s  independence  and 
sovereignty in all that we do. In addressing the various 
allegations that have been made against us and dealing 
with the related problems, we have to move slowly and 
with  enormous  care.  In  that  regard,  certain  extremist 
elements  expect  a  fast  pace.  They  want  quick,  short-
term  solutions,  but  our  country  is  dealing  with  the 
legacy  of  a  war  that  dragged  on  for  30  years  and 
divided  its  people.  We  want  to  establish  peace  and 
unity,  promote  brotherhood  among  our  people  and 
eliminate  hatred,  suspicion  and  mistrust.  If  we  are  to 
achieve that, to build up a loving country and promote a 
prosperous economy, the assistance of Member States is 
of paramount importance. That is why I say that ours is 
a slow and steady pace, and in that connection, we call 
on Member States for their help. I believe that a rapid 
pace would be perilous at this juncture and the quick 
solution expected by certain extremist elements would 
be  unlikely  to  solve  our  complex  problems.  I  believe 
that everyone would agree with me in that regard.
Preventing the recurrence of war and promoting a 
sense of brotherhood among the various groups in my 
country, while ensuring each group’s right to speak its 
own language and worship according to its own faith, 
are  among  my  Government’s  goals.  I  respectfully 
appeal  to  the  United  Nations  and  to  every  nation  to 
support us in realizing those goals. We want to promote 
economic  prosperity,  democracy  and  an  end  to  war, 
and we want to consolidate our democracy and set an 
example to other nations. I am asking for assistance in 
achieving those goals.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  congratulating  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Secretary-
General, and may the noble Triple Gem bless us all.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mrs. Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the 
Republic of Estonia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Estonia.
Mrs.  Kersti  Kaljulaid,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Her Excellency Mrs. Kersti Kaljulaid, President 
of the Republic of Estonia, and to invite her to address 
the Assembly.
into 
technology.  Clearly, 
President  Kaljulaid:  Our  world  is  unpredictable, 
and much of that unpredictability is the result of climate 
change.  Climate  change  could  be  counterbalanced 
by  rapid  changes  in  our  wasteful  way  of  life,  aided 
by 
technological 
development  —  especially  as  it  is  illustrated  by  the 
rapidly  developing  digital 
to  which 
billions  now  have  access  —  has  a  positive  potential 
for  transformation,  it  actually  adds  to  the  difficulties 
of  understanding  our  future.  This  new  world  offers 
opportunities. Unfortunately, it also enhances the risks. 
To take advantage of the former and manage the latter, 
we need to take flexible and quick action, and on the 
global stage.
although 
technologies 
Estonia, a nation of just over 1 million inhabitants, 
is  sensitive  to  the  fact  that  those  who  are  inherently 
weak  —  the  poor,  the  disabled  and  the  very  young 
or  very  old  —  find  it  especially  hard  to  cope  with 
unpredictability.  It  is  hard  for  those  who  have  been 
rendered  weak  by  discrimination,  which  is  often  the 
case  for  women  and  ethnic  and  religious  minorities. 
Estonia itself has gone through a rapid transformation 
during  the  more  than  quarter  century  that  has  passed 
since it regained independence. As our economic and 
social  statistics  prove,  we  have  done  quite  well  in 
protecting  our  society’s  weaker  groups,  while  rapidly 
adapting  and  growing  our  economy.  We  know  it  can 
be done.
We suffered for a long time from the international 
community’s  Hobbesian  conviction  that  liberty  could 
about bring chaos, and that bad leadership is better than 
no  leadership.  Our  guiding  principles  have  therefore 
been  those  of  John  Locke  —  the  rule  of  law,  checks 
and balances and individual rights. Notably, Locke had 
originally  agreed  with  Hobbes,  but  changed  his  mind 
17-29281
3/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
while on a diplomatic mission observing civil society 
in  Brandenburg,  where,  as  he  described  it,  differing 
ideas had the right to quietly coexist. That debate has 
continued into modern times.
We know how to offer our know-how on empathic, 
inclusive  development  at  the  global  discussion  table. 
Estonia is seeking election to the Security Council for 
the period from 2020 to 2021. As a small State that was 
occupied  for  50  years  of  its  100-year  history,  Estonia 
is  sensitive  to  the  concerns  of  all  States  and  people 
who  lack  the  capacity  to  withstand  global  tides.  Too 
many States in the world are suffering from unresolved 
conflicts,  and  they  are  States  that  could  take  care  of 
their  own  peoples  and  contribute  at  the  global  level 
if  we  could  more  quickly  manage  the  conflicts  that 
are  holding  them  back  or,  worse,  threatening  to  tear 
them apart.
The ongoing military aggression in eastern Ukraine 
continues  to  stir  up  conflict  and  cause  casualties 
among civilians, including the loss of a member of the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s 
Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine. The Crimean 
peninsula  is  still  occupied,  as  are  parts  of  Georgia. 
There  are  protracted  conflicts  in  Transnistria  and 
Nagorno  Karabakh.  Many  countries  have  been  torn 
apart  by  tensions  that  we  recognized  but  could  not 
dissipate in time to avoid the worst. 
The world has lost half a million people in Syria. 
Estonia  supports  the  International,  Impartial  and 
Independent Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation 
and  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  the  Most 
Serious Crimes under International Law Committed in 
the Syrian Arab Republic since March 2011. 
We cannot overlook the escalating suffering of the 
people  of  Yemen,  or  ignore  the  fate  of  the  Rohingya 
people.  We  must  put  more  effort  into  humanitarian 
action  to  combat  the  hunger,  diseases  and  epidemics 
looming  in  various  countries.  Our  common  efforts  to 
combat famine and hunger will also be crucial in South 
Sudan, Somalia and Nigeria.
Not every State is mobilizing its resources, efforts 
and technological advances for the benefit of its people. 
North Korea is an acute threat to world peace.
There are also considerable risks to global stability 
that  are  no  longer  linked  to  any  specific  State.  The 
risk  of  terrorism  is  metastatic.  Spawned  initially  by 
the  disappointments  and  disillusionment  of  people 
from  failed  and  failing  States,  it  has  spread  globally. 
The  key  to  successfully  countering  terrorism  and 
violent  extremism  lies  in  our  cooperation  at  all 
levels — national, regional and global. The Secretary-
General’s initiative to restructure the counter-terrorism 
architecture  at  the  United  Nations  will  render  global 
efforts  more  coordinated  and  transparent.  Effective 
counter-terrorism measures and the protection of human 
rights are mutually reinforcing, not conflicting, goals.
What  I  have  just  mentioned  —  and  which  has 
already been exacerbated by the real effects of climate 
change and, unfortunately, will be even more so in the 
future  —  has  led  to  the  highest  number  of  displaced 
people  the  world  has  ever  seen.  As  with  all  global 
challenges, the United Nations is the natural entity for 
working out and agreeing on a solution. Last year, we 
adopted  the  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and 
Migrants. We must address the root causes and drivers 
of  irregular  migration  in  order  to  improve  border 
management  and  fight  human  trafficking,  while  also 
facilitating  opportunities  for  legal  migration.  I  would 
like  to  emphasize  that  the  underlying  basic  values  of 
our joint endeavours are humanism and solidarity. For 
Estonia,  the  importance  of  empathy  for  refugees  who 
are  fleeing  the  atrocities  of  war  and  destruction  is  a 
bitter lesson from our own history, when occupations 
and the Second World War dispersed our people around 
the world.
If we want to deal with the root causes of migration, 
we must tackle climate change, which has become the 
defining  issue  of  our  time.  Joint  efforts  to  combat 
climate change on a global scale would not be possible 
without the coordinating role of the United Nations and 
the platform offered by the United Nations Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  (UNFCCC).  We  have 
confidence  in  the  Fiji  presidency’s  ability  to  achieve 
concrete  results  during  the  twenty-third  session  of 
the  Parties  to  the  UNFCCC,  to  be  held  in  November, 
building on last year’s achievements in Paris.
As  the  response  led  by  society  to  the  threats  of 
climate change shows, big, universal problems can be 
tackled  by  inclusive  societies.  Inclusive  societies  are 
fundamental  to  empathic  and  inclusive  development. 
However, in recent years we have witnessed a shrinking 
of the space available to civil society. That trend must 
be reversed. One of the most prominent guarantees for 
empathic and inclusive development in democracy and 
the rule of law is the mainstreaming of gender equality 
in all areas of life. It is a proven fact that treating women 
4/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
and men equally has a multiplier effect in eradicating 
poverty.  Estonia’s  welfare  development  plan  for 
2016-2023  covers  policy  areas  from  employment  and 
social  inclusion  to  equal  opportunities  for  applying 
our talents in all walks of life. Our goal is the balanced 
participation  of  women  and  men  at  all  levels  of 
decision-making  and  management,  in  both  the  public 
and the private sectors.
We should also not forget about gender balance in 
conflict situations. Engaging women in the early stages 
of  prevention,  crisis  resolution  and  peacebuilding 
helps to reduce the probability of a relapse into violent 
conflict.  We  should  therefore  encourage  women’s 
participation in peace processes and acknowledge them 
as actors of change with great potential. And we must 
be tireless in implementing Security Council resolution 
1325  (2000)  and  related  resolutions  on  women  and 
peace  and  security  at  every  level.  The  Peacebuilding 
Commission’s  adoption  of  a  gender  strategy  last  year 
was a major milestone on that road.
If women are to fully play their role in society, it is 
crucial to eliminate gender-based violence. We should 
ensure that its survivors are treated with dignity and that 
its  perpetrators  are  held  accountable  for  their  crimes. 
Estonia continues to support actions that address gender-
based  violence  and  the  reproductive-health  needs 
of  women  and  adolescent  girls  who  are  particularly 
vulnerable  —  for  example,  via  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund  in  Ukraine  and  by  supporting  the 
#shedecides initiative. I am convinced that Secretary-
General  Guterres’  commendable  effort  to  bring  more 
women into United Nations decision-making will also 
be an inspiration to women globally, and have a tangible 
effect on United Nations policy development, making it 
more empathic and inclusive.
Today,  the  use  of  information  technology  and 
the  Internet  is  part  of  the  everyday  lives  of  people 
everywhere.  Estonia  can  share  its  experience  on  how 
best to utilize e-governance to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  more  efficiently  and  cheaply.  We 
have  been  organizing  an  event  series  at  the  United 
Nations with the aim of introducing the well-established 
benefits  of  our  e-governance  to  the  international 
community, and we sincerely hope that they will lead 
to  concrete  action  and  partnerships.  Moreover,  this 
summer,  Estonia  and  Singapore  launched  the  Group 
of  Friends  on  e-Governance  and  Cybersecurity.  The 
Group’s aim is to raise awareness, share best practices 
and  promote  capacity-building,  at  a  time  when  such 
topics  are  becoming  increasingly  important  at  the 
United Nations level.
Digital  change  is  everywhere.  Its  biggest  effect 
right  now  is  its  ability  to  make  geography  obsolete. 
Attacks  via  cyberspace  know  no  limits.  Friendships 
and  partnerships  formed  in  the  cybersphere  know  no 
borders. Globally, all these things diminish the distance 
between  us.  A  digitally  enhanced  global  civil  society 
functions better if States provide their people with safe 
ways to communicate digitally. In the analogue world, 
it is easy to identify ourselves even to people we do not 
know, because States have provided us with passports. 
We  need  similar  identification  for  the  cybersphere, 
and  yet  too  few  Governments  provide  the  means  for 
safe  identification.  They  should  catch  up  and  ensure 
that  their  people  are  protected  and  able  to  conduct 
transactions and communicate safely online.
Our greater dependence on electronic services has 
brought  greater  vulnerability  in  cyberspace,  but  that 
does not mean that we can, or should try, to stop digital 
progress. We should continue our efforts to analyse how 
international law applies to the use of information and 
communications  technology,  particularly  with  regard 
to  the  principle  of  due  diligence,  countermeasures, 
the  potential  application  of  the  right  to  self-defence 
and international humanitarian law. I call on all States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to  the  Council  of 
Europe  Convention  on  Cybercrime.  I  would  also  like 
to  underline  the  statement  of  the  Freedom  Online 
Coalition, expressing deep concern about the growing 
trend  in  intentional  State-sponsored  disruptions  both 
of access to information online and its dissemination. 
No one should be denied the right to peaceful assembly 
or  to  freedom  of  association,  opinion  or  expression, 
whether in real life or online.
In  order 
to  address  all  of 
those  challenges 
successfully, we need a strong United Nations. Estonia 
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  agenda  for  United 
Nations  reform  and  strongly  supports  efforts  to  link 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  peace  and  security 
architecture  with  reform  of  its  development  system. 
We  welcome  the  emphasis  on  conflict  prevention 
and  peacebuilding,  which  renders  societies  resilient 
to vulnerabilities.
Estonia’s  chairmanship  of  the  Second  Committee 
is  firmly  guided  by  the  principles  of  inclusivity  and 
empathy.  It  is  in  our  common  interests  to  ensure  that 
the  Second  Committee  tackles  the  global  challenges 
17-29281
5/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
that fall under its remit. We count on members’ good 
faith in achieving that.
Mr.  Saikal  (Afghanistan),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
As a member of the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency group, Estonia has been working closely 
with  a  number  of  countries  to  improve  the  working 
methods of the Security Council, and the functioning 
of the United Nations as a whole. We need empathy and 
inclusivity, including in the Security Council. That is 
why Estonians hope that our first-time candidature for 
a non-permanent member seat for the period 2020-2021 
will be successful. We regained independence 26 years 
ago,  but  we  already  have  22  years  of  participation  in 
United Nations peacekeeping under our belt. As a small 
country, we care for all those who are vulnerable in the 
world. As a digital society, we are a story of hope and 
of rapid transformation from a poor country recovering 
from  occupation  to  one  that  is  able  to  provide  for  its 
own citizens and contribute to multilateral cooperation. 
Again, as a digital State, we consider transparency and 
being close to people as obligations of a State. We are 
adamant  supporters  of  rules-based  decision-making 
and clarity of process. We are with those who want to 
make the United Nations more nimble in order to face 
the challenges of the twenty-first century.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Estonia for the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Kersti  Kaljulaid,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Jimmy Morales, President of the 
Republic of Guatemala
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Guatemala.
Mr.  Jimmy  Morales,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President: On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Jimmy Morales, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Morales  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  my 
first  words  be  of  solidarity  with  the  people  and  the 
Government  of  Mexico,  given  the  tragedy  that  has 
beset  that  beautiful  country  today.  Guatemala  has 
made available a search-and-rescue team. Similarly, we 
wish to express our most sincere solidarity with all the 
Caribbean  islands  that  have  been  affected  by  storms 
and hurricanes.
I am grateful to Mr. Peter Thomson for his excellent 
stewardship  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
during the previoius session, and I wish Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák every success as President of the Assembly at its 
current session. I should also like to take this opportunity 
to  welcome  most  warmly  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres, whom I have already congratulated.
As  a  sign  of  of  our  commitment  to  peace  and 
development, on 6 July we signed our commitment to 
the  national  development  agenda,  which  incorporates 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  our  national 
development plan — K’atún: Our Guatemala 2032 — in 
order  to  achieve  the  goals,  targets  and  indicators  set 
forth in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  thus  to  affect  the  well-being  of  Guatemalans. 
Similarly, my country has as its priority guaranteeing 
food  security,  attaining  respect  for  and  promoting 
human rights, ending poverty, improving the lot of the 
most vulnerable, stewarding our natural resources and 
making gender equality a reality.
Guatemala  is  committed  to  submitting  to  its 
third  Universal  Periodic  Review  by 
the  Human 
Rights  Council  next  November  and  to  a  review  of  its 
compliance with the Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
In a historic event for indigenous peoples, we have 
drawn up, through consensus and inclusive dialogue, an 
operational guide for the holding of consultations with 
indigenous peoples, pursuant to Convention No.169 of 
the International Labour Organization. The guide will 
help public institutions to comply with their obligations 
in consultation with indigenous peoples on the type of 
development they want to achieve.
Again  on  human  rights,  I  wish  to  recall  that 
Guatemala,  after  36  years  of  internal  armed  conflict, 
signed  a  peace  agreement  and  took  on  the  even  more 
arduous  task  of  peacebuilding.  That  conflict  was 
conditioned  by  international  ideological  polarization 
engendered by political doctrines that are alien to us. 
6/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
We  recognized  our  weakness 
Its  aftermath  weakened  State  institutions,  preventing 
them from providing necessary services to our people.
in  proceeding 
alone  and  therefore  turned  to  the  United  Nations.  At 
our  initiative,  we  entered  into  an  agreement  with  the 
Organization to establish the International Commission 
against 
(CICIG).  That 
experience is unique in the world and has an important 
mandate that necessitates faithful compliance, not only 
only  as  it  pertains  to  us  but  as  a  function  of  the  rule 
of law.
in  Guatemala 
Impunity 
The Commission started its work in 2007. At first, 
it  was  to  last  for  two  years,  a  period  that  has  been 
extended five times, most recently on 4 September. This 
extension, which I signed in advance, shows our firmest 
commitment  to  strengthening  and  supporting  the 
Commission so that it achieves its goal of transferring 
its capacities to the State institutions, without setback 
or  challenge.  My  Administration  has  significantly 
increased the budget allocations for the justice sector. 
The  increase  is  unprecedented  in  the  history  of  the 
country so that it may have a strong judicial system.
CICIG  has  performed  much  good  work,  and 
that  is  precisely  why  we  support  it.  The  limits  of  its 
mandate are the political Constitution of the Republic 
of  Guatemala,  the  laws  of  our  country  and  the 
agreement  itself —  the  establishment  and  elaboration 
of  CICIG.  We  —  Guatemala  and  the  United  Nations 
Secretariat — are the guarantors of its observance.
It is a principle of our country that nobody should 
interfere  in  the  administration  of  justice.  Whatever 
form  interference  might  take  —  direct  or  indirect, 
through the media or any act that, though it might not 
appear connected, could affect sovereignty — it could 
affect the working of the country.
Our  Government  is  fully  committed  to  the  fight 
against  corruption  and  impunity.  We  have  therefore 
begun the process of reviewing the interpretation and 
the  correct  implementation  of  the  CICIG  agreement, 
whereby we hope, in an objective and balanced fashion, 
to perfect, fine tune and correctly implement the task of 
the  Commission,  while  guaranteeing  due  process,  the 
presumption  of  innocence,  and  avoiding,  at  all  costs, 
selective persecution, the politicization of justice and a 
litigation culture in politics. We trust that we will soon 
begin the relevant actions for both interested parties.
The  environment  is  one  of  the  many  issues  that 
we wish to address. On 25 January, Guatemala signed 
and  ratified  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change. 
That is a clear demonstration of my country’s level of 
commitment  to  meeting  its  international  and  national 
obligations  in  that  regard.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank President Emmanuel Macron for his initiative in 
the global pact for the environment, which we support. 
Aware  of  its  own  high  degree  of  vulnerability  and 
threats  of  nature,  Guatemala  already  has  a  national 
action  plan  on  climate  change,  so  that  our  domestic 
legislation  may  be  carried  out  to  achieve  mitigation, 
adaptation and resilience to climate change.
With  regard  to  nutrition  and  food  security,  with 
the support of the World Food Programme we have put 
together the final report of the strategic review of the 
situation in Guatemala in that regard, with an emphasis 
on chronic malnutrition and its root causes. With that 
tool,  we  are  working  hard  on  our  national  strategy 
for  the  prevention  of  chronic  malnutrition  for  the 
period  2016-2020,  which  is  related  to  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Faced  with  the  threat  of  transnational  organized 
crime, drug trafficking and terrorism, my Government 
has  made  the  strengthening  of  justice  and  security 
institutions a priority. With that goal in mind, we have 
been  working  hand  in  hand  with  our  international 
partners to end crime, corruption and drug trafficking 
once and for all. In June, the Conference on Prosperity 
and  Security  in  Central  America  was  held  in  Miami, 
in  which  Guatemala  was  recognized  for  its  strong 
commitment 
its 
continued support in the fight against drug trafficking 
and its determined work to advance the shared goals of 
promoting security in the region.
the  Alliance  for  Prosperity, 
to 
A major issue for my country, with which we have 
always  dealt  seriously,  is  the  interinstitutional  and 
international  efforts  in  the  migration  phenomenon, 
with special emphasis on the alliances with El Salvador, 
Honduras,  Mexico  and  the  United  States  of  America. 
Alongside those actors, we have focused on efforts to 
boost  the  economy  and  improve  security  conditions 
in  order  to  reduce  migration  and  decrerase  the  risk 
migrants face when embarking on a dangerous journey 
in search of a better quality of life. That is why we value 
the  efforts  of  all  States  Members  of  the  Organization 
in  the  process  of  negotiating  the  global  compact  for 
safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration,  which  is  planned 
as  an  updated  mechanism  within  the  United  Nations 
17-29281
7/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
that prioritizes the capacity, work and contribution of 
migrants, regardless of their immigration status.
Consistent with the need to care for our nationals, 
we have expanded our consular assistance in the United 
States  in  order  to  promote  and  protect  the  human 
rights of migrants in this country and provide consular 
assistance closer to them.
I would also like to mention that, in April, Panama 
and  Guatemala  signed  an 
information  exchange 
and  migration  alert  agreement,  which  facilitates  the 
mobility of people from both countries and establishes 
cooperation links in migration matters. In that context, I 
want to refer to our so-called young dreamers, who help 
make up a group of people who bring talent, knowledge 
and  work  to  the  development  of  the  communities 
where  they  currently  live.  Like  other  countries  that 
count  on  dreamers  protected  by  the  Deferred  Action 
for  Childhood  Arrivals  programme,  Guatemala  hopes 
that human sentiment and the regional solidarity of the 
Government  of  the  United  States  will  prevail  so  that 
in the coming months Congress will adopt legislation 
that allows that group of young people and children to 
attain permanent legal status and enable them to stay 
and study in the United States.
My  country’s  role  in  the  multilateral  sphere  aims 
to  contribute  to  strengthening  the  conditions  for 
sustainable peace on the ground. It is precisely in that 
sphere,  where  peacekeeping  is  one  of  the  most  noble 
tasks of the Organization, in which Guatemala is proud 
to  participate.  Our  commitment  is  reflected  in  the 
deployment  of  our  contingents  to  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and other missions on the African 
continent  where  we  actively  participate,  as  well  as  in 
Haiti,  where  Guatemalan  personnel  directly  support 
national  efforts  with  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission in Haiti, whose mandate is about to end. We are 
also  honoured  to  continue  participating  in  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  Colombia.  We  will  continue  to 
contribute constructively to those international efforts 
with the highest level of professionalism and dedication.
Guatemala, in line with the Non-Proliferation and 
Disarmament  Initiative  on  nuclear  weapons,  strongly 
condemns  acts  of  provocation  and  destabilization 
that  undermine  international  peace  and  security  and 
increase  tensions  not  only  at  the  regional  level,  but 
also  worldwide.  Those  acts  impede  peaceful  dialogue 
with  a  view  to  contributing  to  denuclearization.  We 
have  repeatedly  condemned  the  nuclear  tests  carried 
out  by  North  Korea,  as  they  are  a  flagrant  violation 
of  international  law  and  various  resolutions  of  the 
Security  Council,  as  well  as  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Collective 
security can be achieved only through the prohibition 
and  total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons.  For  that 
reason,  tomorrow  Guatemala  will  sign  the  Treaty  on 
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, thereby taking an 
important step to reach a world free of nuclear weapons.
the  serious 
situation  facing  the  Venezuelan  people.  The  political 
crisis  afflicting  that  beautiful  fraternal  country  is 
drifting  towards  the  possibility  of  a  rupture  of  the 
democratic  order,  a  lack  of  constitutional  guarantees, 
the  violation  of  human  rights  and  continuous  acts  of 
violence, persecution and political repression. We share 
the  serious  concern  of  other  countries  of  the  region. 
That is why we seek to explore ways to contribute to 
the restoration of democracy in that country through a 
peaceful and negotiated exit.
is  concerned  about 
My  country 
Before  the  Assembly,  I  want  to  reaffirm  the 
commitment  of  my  country  to  resolving  permanently 
and definitively, in the International Court of Justice, 
our  territorial,  insular  and  maritime  dispute  with 
Belize,  a  country  with  which  we  aspire  to  have  a 
privileged relationship and a permanent dialogue about 
the solution of our common problems.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to send 
a message of unity to my country. We are experiencing 
a moment of polarization that is not favourable to that 
and will not lead us to any safe place. I have welcomed 
the  call  for  dialogue  by  some  parties,  and  today,  as  a 
democratically elected representative of national unity, 
I  call  on  all  sectors  to  engage  in  a  serious  dialogue 
on  themes  that  are  truly  structural,  in  which  we  seek 
solutions  to  the  problems,  with  all  of  us  participating 
and  helping  as  a  nation.  That  participation  will  allow 
us  to  speak  of  deep  reforms  to  the  State,  which  we 
must  solve  in  the  areas  of  security  and  justice,  and 
of  economic  and  social  development,  both  rural  and 
urban, as well as the issue of political participation and 
the functioning of the State. I will return to my country, 
as always, with hopes of a better future.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Guatemala for the statement he has just made.
8/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
Mr.  Jimmy  Morales,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Mohammad Ashraf Ghani 
Ahmadzai, President of the Islamic Republic 
of Afghanistan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Islamic Republic 
of Afghanistan.
Mr. Mohammad Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, 
President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ahmadzai:  As  I  stand  here  before  the 
General Assembly today, I am reminded that the wise 
men  and  women  of  1945  displayed  a  unique  capacity 
to learn from and act on the lessons of history. Shaped 
by the Great Depression and tempered by the carnage 
of the Second World War, they established global order 
through  institutions  that  would  provide  security  and 
stability for generations to come. The United Nations, 
the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank 
and  other  organizations  were  founded  to  coordinate 
responses  to  international  challenges  and  to  make 
crimes against humanity a thing of the past.
There can be little doubt that today the scale, scope 
and speed of their imagination and efforts have not yet 
been  matched.  But  future  historians  will  judge  those 
institutions  on  how  they  respond  to  the  challenges 
of  today  and  the  challenges  we  must  confront  in  the 
future.  As  global  leaders,  we  seek  certainty  and 
familiarity in the rules of the game that dominated the 
twentieth century. But in today’s ever-changing world, 
the  dominant  contextual  characteristic  defining  our 
times is extreme uncertainty. It is easy to illustrate this 
uncertainty  by  looking  at  threats  we  are  facing  —  to 
our  economies,  our  security  and  our  values.  There  is 
an emerging consensus that advanced economies have 
yet  to  arrive  at  proper  growth  models  to  overcome 
high  unemployment,  decreasing  income  and  wealth 
inequality.  The  threat  of  economic  crisis,  therefore, 
still hangs over us.
transnational 
terrorism.  Driven  by 
Sixteen  years  after  the  tragedy  of  11  September 
2001,  the  threat  of  violence  by  non-State  actors  has 
taken  the  form  of  a  fifth  wave  of  political  violence 
and 
terrorist 
networks,  criminal  organizations,  cybercrime  and 
State  sponsorship  of  terror,  this  fifth  wave  promises 
to  be  a  decades-long  threat  to  international  security 
rather  than  a  passing  phenomenon.  In  the  twentieth 
century,  the  world  came  together  to  push  back  the 
spread of fascism so that democratic freedoms could be 
secured.  Those  very  freedoms  are  under  attack  today 
from global terrorism. Terrorism is not only an attack 
on human life and basic freedoms, but an attack on the 
compact of citizenship, an attack on the nation-State’s 
relationship  with  its  people,  which  makes  democratic 
societies  unique,  fair  and  free.  We  must  confront  the 
threat of terrorism as a united force and meet it with a 
long-term  solution  that  matches  the  long-term  agenda 
of the terrorists themselves.
Lastly,  despite  the  incorporation  of  tenets  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  into  the 
Constitutions  of  most  countries  of  the  world,  crimes 
against  humanity  still  occur  with  painful  regularity. 
The  ethnic  cleansing  of  the  Rohingya  is  especially 
shocking.  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi’s  lengthy  silence  was 
tragic, as our hopes that an icon of human rights would 
choose principle over power were frustrated. I welcome 
the chance for Afghanistan to have a seat on the Human 
Rights Council in order to have a more central role in 
discussions on these important issues. As a people who 
are  still  experiencing  crimes  against  humanity  —  the 
latest  being  killing  of  civilians  in  the  Mirza  Ulang 
village and attacks on mosques in Kabul and Herat and 
elsewhere — we are eager to add our voice in support 
of human rights.
Overcoming the destructive and disruptive patterns 
of change in the twenty-first century requires collective 
and  coordinated  action  at  the  global,  local  and 
individual levels. An effective, efficient and respected 
United  Nations  is  the  need  of  the  hour;  we  must  let 
our  twentieth-century  institutions  be  put  to  the  test. 
I  therefore  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  assuming  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session. I also want to 
recognize and appreciate the efforts of His Excellency 
Mr. Peter Thomson during the previous session, and I 
commend  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Guterres 
for launching his reform of the United Nations.
17-29281
9/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
If the United Nations did not exist today, we would 
have  to  invent  it  to  address  the  demands  of  our  time. 
Delivering  on  the  promises  of  the  Charter  and  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights in the context of 
uncertainty requires re-examination of core functions, 
re-engineering  of  business  processes,  reinvigoration 
of organizational culture and values, and the reform of 
systems of accountability. If the United Nations is to be 
more relevant to countries like mine, it must deliver as 
one United Nations. But this objective has not yet been 
fulfilled.  The  inherited  model  of  the  United  Nations 
agencies  as  instruments  of  technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building  should  be  subjected  to  the  market 
test,  namely,  value-for-money  and  sustainability  of 
results  in  comparison  to  Government,  private  sector 
and  non-governmental  modes  of  delivery.  Mutual 
accountability is a proven mechanism of consolidation 
and expansion of partnerships and trust-building.
I am honoured to stand before the General Assembly 
to represent and speak for the people of Afghanistan. 
We  have  borne  adversity,  deprivation  and  drought 
with  dignity,  met  invasion  with  valour  and  defended 
our homeland with patriotic fervour. As the front-line 
State  in  the  global  struggle  against  terrorism  and  in 
the  front-line  of  defence  of  democratic  freedoms,  our 
people  and  security  forces  are  accomplishing  heroic 
deeds on a daily basis. We too — as a nation, a State 
and  a  people  —  are  reinventing  ourselves  to  address 
the challenges and potential offered to us in the twenty-
first century.
With  President  Trump’s  recent  announcement  of 
his strategy to counter terror and stabilize South Asia, 
Afghanistan’s  enduring  partnership  with  the  United 
States  and  the  international  community  has  been 
renewed  and  redirected.  We  welcome  that  strategy, 
which  has  now  set  us  on  a  pathway  to  certainty.  The 
Afghan people have looked to the United States for this 
type of resolve for years. We pay tribute to all the men 
and women of allied nations who have served with us, 
particularly those who paid the ultimate sacrifice.
The  strategy  consolidates  all 
instruments  of 
American power, conveying a message that the Taliban 
and their backers cannot win militarily. Only through 
political  settlement  can  we  achieve  enduring  peace, 
and  I  call  upon  all  ranks  of  Taliban  to  engage  in 
intra-Afghan dialogue.
We now also have an opportunity for a dialogue with 
our neighbours on how we can work together earnestly 
to  eliminate  terrorism  and  contain  extremism.  I  call 
upon  Pakistan  to  engage  with  us  in  a  comprehensive 
State-to-State dialogue on peace, security and regional 
cooperation leading to prosperity.
The  Afghan  Government  has  proven  that  we 
are  committed  to  peace  through  our  own  internal 
processes,  as  demonstrated  by  the  peace  agreement 
with Hizb-international Islami. We now call on all of 
our  neighbours,  near  and  far,  to  join  us  through  the 
Kabul  process  in  our  comprehensive  quest  for  peace 
and  regional  stability.  However,  moving  forward,  we 
ask for a change of perspective from our international 
partners. For too long, the conflict in Afghanistan has 
been viewed through the prism of civil war; but the war 
is not within our soil, it is over our soil.
Today  there  are  over  20  international  terrorist 
groups with an imposed presence on Afghan soil. The 
future  of  Afghanistan  matters  because  we  are  on  the 
front  lines  of  the  global  effort  to  eradicate  the  threat 
of terrorism. Our brave soldiers are fighting and dying 
for the cause and the sovereignty of the Afghan nation 
every day. Although we may be on the front lines, the 
threat knows no boundaries.
For  terrorist  groups  that  are  harboured  in  the 
region,  attacks  in  Kabul,  Brussels,  Paris,  Barcelona, 
London or anywhere else are equal victories. President 
Trump’’  new  strategy  includes  the  disruption  and 
denial  of  sanctuary  to  terrorists,  whose  motives 
know no boundaries. However, a strong and enduring 
commitment from our international partners alone will 
not ensure our collective success in Afghanistan. The 
roots of success are indeed within us, as Afghans.
Today,  nearly  three  years  into  our  decade  of 
transformation,  we  are  turning  Afghanistan  into  a 
platform  for  stability.  The  foundation  has  been  laid. 
We  have  articulated  and  are  rigorously  implementing 
road maps for reform: we are prosecuting the corrupt, 
ending  corruption  in  the  security  sector,  replacing 
systems  of  patronage  with  merit-based  systems  and 
making financial processes transparent.
We are also reaching out to those who had previously 
been excluded from society — young people, the poor 
and women. Yet those people are our nation’s source of 
resilience.  The  generation  that  grew  up  in  the  1990s, 
which  makes  up  the  majority  of  our  population,  is 
now  being  entrusted  with  wholesale  leadership  of  the 
country. A generational change is taking place as youth 
are empowered at every level. This generation will be 
10/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
the  one  that  reforms  the  Government  into  one  that  is 
citizen- and service-oriented.
Through  unimaginable  hardship,  women  kept  the 
fabric of our communities and societies together, even 
as they fell to shreds. Yet women were relegated to the 
very bottom of society. That was unacceptable, and our 
nation  suffered  for  it.  Today  there  are  more  Afghan 
women  in  Government,  the  workforce  and  active  in 
civil society than ever before in Afghan history, yet we 
still  have  far  to  go.  At  the  helm,  we  have  six  women 
Ambassadors and four women Cabinet members. Simply 
put, women’s empowerment is crucial to our future.
The  poor,  along  with  women  and  young  people, 
are the numerical majorities in Afghanistan that cross 
ethnic,  linguistic,  gender  and  religious  lines.  About 
40 per cent of Afghans still live below the poverty line. 
Research shows that poverty perpetuates itself because 
it affects the physiological make-up of a child’s brain. 
We  must  empower  the  poor.  For  too  long,  they  have 
been the silent majority in our country.
We are recreating the bonds of society in order to 
change the culture of our State. And we are strengthening 
our  bonds  not  only  internally,  but  regionally.  As  we 
look to our neighbours in South and Central Asia, we 
are  simultaneously  strengthening  national,  global  and 
regional  connectivity.  Afghanistan  will  again  become 
a  multifaceted  hub  in  the  twenty-first  century  for 
transport, energy, water and mining and for the benefit 
of the entire region’s economic prosperity and security.
We  are  already  seeing  the  fruits  of  our  labour. 
Transmission lines for Central and South Asia, power 
projects  are  under  construction;  the  Turkmen  railway 
has  reached  our  border;  and 
the  Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India pipeline for natural gas is 
under  construction.  As  a  central  part  of  our  plan  for 
economic advancement, we continue to work with our 
regional  partners  to  seek  avenues  of  collaboration. 
We  can  see  now,  amid  the  uncertainties  and  unique 
challenges  and  threats  of  the  twenty-first  century, 
how  Afghanistan  has  become  a  conundrum  for  the 
twentieth-century approaches within which the global 
order tends to still operate.
While the threat of international terrorism playing 
out  on  our  soil  has  dominated  the  narrative  of  our 
country  and  driven  the  fate  of  our  people  for  far  too 
long, we also have enormous potential to be the regional 
brokers of peace, a hub for economic prosperity and a 
beacon  of  democratic  values.  The  birthplace  of  Rumi 
still resounds with messages of love, peace and hope. 
Afghanistan  will  yet  again  be  the  Asian  crossroads 
for  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  a  model  of 
harmony  and  culture  of  tolerance  and  engagement.  I 
am confident that our plans and programmes for self-
reliance  and  reform,  bolstered  by  the  commitment  of 
our international partners, will chart out a path for us 
towards realizing our full potential.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic  of  Afghanistan  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr. Mohammad Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Adama Barrow, President of the 
Republic of The Gambia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
The Gambia.
Mr.  Adama  Barrow,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  The  Gambia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Adama Barrow, President 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Gambia,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Barrow:  With  warm  greetings  to  all 
members  of  the  General  Assembly  from  the  new 
Gambia, we thank the Almighty God for making this 
great gathering of global leaders possible once again this 
year. Allow me to formally congratulate the President 
of the General Assembly and the Secretary-General of 
the Organization on their leadership and commitment 
to the values of the United Nations.
After more than 70 years of existence, the United 
Nations undoubtedly remains the ultimate international 
platform  for  finding  solutions  to  global  challenges, 
as we in the Gambia know all too well. Today, on my 
maiden appearance at this great forum of world leaders, 
let me take this opportunity to reaffirm The Gambia’s 
firm commitment to the Charter of the United Nations. 
My  Government  fully  appreciates  the  United  Nations 
central  role  in  the  pursuit  of  preventive  diplomacy  to 
avert crises around the world.
17-29281
11/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
The  recent  political  crisis  that  took  place  in  my 
country  created  a  new  democratic  beginning,  and  the 
experience taught us useful lessons that Gambians will 
not  easily  forget.  We  learned  that  willpower,  national 
unity, decisive regional intervention and the undivided 
and  clear  support  of  the  international  community 
could  produce  positive  outcomes.  Also  of  importance 
was  the  coordinated  international  action  inspired  by 
our  common  values  of  solidarity,  democracy,  respect 
for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  which  were 
critical  in  sending  the  right  message  to  the  former 
President  to  respect  the  will  of  the  people  and  leave 
without bloodshed.
During  those  difficult  times,  we  knew  we  had 
friends — ones who came to our aid and who have since 
kept faith with us. We therefore would like to seize this 
great opportunity to thank the leaders of the Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) for their 
timely and firm intervention in bringing peace to The 
Gambia. We also thank all our regional and international 
friends  who  stood  by  us  in  our  critical  hour  of  need. 
Thanks to their collective efforts, The Gambia is now 
on  a  solid  path  to  peace  and  good  governance,  and 
ready to resume playing our traditional role among the 
champions of human rights and democracy. Gambians 
have made an irreversible choice to close a dark chapter 
in our history, and today our national agenda is one of 
reform and transformation.
judicial 
Like  any  other  restored  democracy,  we  are 
facing  enormous  challenges  in  the  revival  of  our 
economy  and  a  comprehensive  reform  of  our  laws 
and  our  administrative  and 
institutions. 
The  modernization  of  our  security  sector  and  the 
consolidation of the rule of law and human rights are 
part of our reform programme. It is only by overcoming 
these challenges that we can reinforce our democratic 
gains, and my Government is committed to delivering 
a new Gambia that is fit for our children to be proud 
of. Indeed, young people were all along at the forefront 
of  our  democratic  transition,  and  addressing  youth 
unemployment is a top priority for my Government and 
will no doubt create enormous opportunities.
My Government is committed to using such resources 
wisely for sustainable socioeconomic development.
We may be a small country but we have huge needs. 
As  a  matter  of  urgent  priority,  we  have  developed  a 
national development plan in line with the transformative 
agenda of the new Gambia. This development blueprint 
is  designed  to  put  the  country  back  on  track  to 
economic growth and prosperity following two decades 
of mismanagement, corruption and widespread human 
rights  violations.  This  new  plan  is  built  on  sound 
macroeconomic  and  fiscal  policies  that  will  lead  to 
economic  stability  and  growth  over  the  medium  and 
long  terms.  It  has  also  incorporated  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and other commitments contained 
in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
The  Paris  Agreement  is  critically  relevant  to  The 
Gambia  because  climate  change  means  a  lot  more  in 
our  situation.  When  land  productivity  declines  and 
water  shortage  intensifies,  young  people  from  rural 
areas  are  often  sent  away  to  ease  the  burden  on  their 
families and to find new sources of income. This sadly 
explains why many young Gambians have been forced 
to  make  the  long  and  dangerous  journey  to  Europe. 
The  journey  is  so  risky  that  many  perish  on  the  high 
seas and never reach their final destination. Countless 
others disappear into immigration detention centres or 
vanish  in  the  sands  of  the  Sahara  desert.  Those  who 
are  able  to  complete  the  journey  are  often  dismissed 
as economic migrants and sent back home. This sense 
of  hopelessness  and  frustration  also  provides  fertile 
ground  for  smugglers  and  extremist  groups  to  recruit 
innocent young people into the criminal underworld.
Young people do not deserve this experience; they 
deserve the chance to enjoy a safe and prosperous future 
at home. Creating new employment opportunities that 
provide  young  people  with  sustainable  incomes  and 
connect  them  to  a  revitalized  land  and  a  healthy  and 
productive environment is an investment in the future 
of  the  nation.  This  is  a  key  priority  of  our  national 
development plan.
We  also  recognize  the  crucial  role  of  Gambians 
in  the  diaspora  in  contributing  to  the  transformation 
of  our  motherland.  Let  me  seize  this  opportunity  to 
sincerely  thank  our  development  partners  and  friends 
for  the  invaluable  budget  and  policy  support  they 
are  providing  to  the  Government  to  help  address  the 
challenges of job creation and youth irregular migration. 
Over  the  past  decade,  we  have  lost  many  of  our 
friends  and  development  partners  through  the  wrong 
policy choices, but since the restoration of democracy 
and  good  governance  many  of  our  long-standing 
partners  are  coming  back  to  work  with  us.  We  are  in 
the  process  of  rejoining  the  Commonwealth  and  the 
International Criminal Court. We are also committed to 
12/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
being part of the African Peer Review Mechanism. We 
are finalizing plans for a roundtable donors’ conference 
to  mobilize  resources  for  the  long-term  development 
of  the  country.  The  continued  support,  solidarity  and 
partnership  of  the  international  community  will  be 
critical to the success of that conference.
Although  The  Gambia  did  not  go  through  armed 
conflict, the political crisis that we experienced arose 
as  a  result  of  decades  of  bad  governance,  weak  State 
institutions,  the  rule  of  fear  and  growing  intolerance. 
We were on the brink of physical violence and armed 
conflict.  We  therefore  express  our  deep  appreciation 
to  the  United  Nations  Office  for  West  Africa,  the 
United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  for  the  critical  initial 
support they have rendered to my country.
the  march 
towards 
is  on 
The  pursuit  of  peace  and  security  in  Africa  and 
the  world  will  always  be  a  major  foreign  policy  goal 
for The Gambia. We will pursue good-neighbourliness 
and  cooperation  with  our  sister  Republic  of  Senegal, 
and  the  countries  of  ECOWAS  will  remain  our 
strategic partners.
West  Africa 
the 
consolidation  of  its  democratic  gains,  but  as  a  region 
we  are  facing  serious  threats  to  our  peace  and 
security.  Terrorism,  extremism,  religious  intolerance, 
organized  crime  and  drug  trafficking  are  seriously 
undermining  our  development  efforts.  Recent  attacks 
in Mali, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire and the Sahel in 
general underscore the urgent need for greater regional 
and  international  cooperation  in  addressing  those 
challenges. The indifference, injustices and indignities 
in  isolated  parts  of  the  world  create  real  threats  to 
global  peace,  prosperity  and  democracy.  We  need  to 
take bigger and bolder steps to close the gap between 
the North and South, as the world is too imbalanced.
still  defies 
We  remain  deeply  concerned  that  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict 
resolution.  My 
Government  firmly  subscribes  to  the  idea  of  a  two-
State solution for the two peoples to live side by side in 
peace and harmony. We therefore call on the Secretary-
General to vigorously pursue that formula in the interest 
of lasting peace.
Continued support in the areas of transitional justice 
and security sector reform will certainly go a long way 
towards  entrenching  peace,  justice  and  democracy  in 
The Gambia.
There is a shortage neither of ideas nor of resources 
to fix the major problems facing the human race. What 
has  always  been  scarce  is  political  will,  and  unless 
adequate resources are invested the pace of development 
will  remain  slow  and  a  minimal  impact  will  be 
achieved. It is against that backdrop that I am calling 
on the private sector to emulate philanthropists in their 
generosity towards the most isolated, marginalized and 
deprived sections of the world. Providing safe drinking 
water, roads, power, health care and education is key to 
restoring human dignity.
In  our  foreign  policy,  as  part  of  our  historic 
friendship we fully recognize the One China policy. The 
People’s Republic of China is the sole representative of 
the  Chinese  people  and  a  true  friend  of  The  Gambia. 
Our two countries continue to strengthen cooperation 
on  the  basis  of  a  win-win  approach,  built  on  mutual 
trust and respect within the framework of the Forum on 
China-Africa Cooperation.
An organization like the United Nations, by virtue 
of its functions, will always require some level of reform 
of  its  management  systems.  The  intergovernmental 
character of the mandates entrusted to the Secretariat 
requires  the  existence  of  trust  and  accountability 
between  Member  States  and  the  Secretariat.  As  the 
United  Nations  embarks  on  its  proposed  reforms,  we 
stand ready to give it full support in the interest of an 
effective and more relevant world body.
Last  but  not  least,  one  long-standing  issue  is  the 
pending  question  of  Security  Council  reform.  Former 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan once said that no reform 
of the United Nations can be complete without reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  That  remains  true  today. 
Africa will not give up its legitimate and historic quest 
for true representation on the Council, and The Gambia 
fully supports the African Union’s demand for the long-
overdue reform of the Security Council.
I want to conclude by reaffirming my optimism and 
confidence in our collective ability to uplift humankind 
from the clutches of poverty; to institute a global order 
of peace, firmly held together by justice; and to love, 
care and tolerate each other. In tune with our national 
anthem, we pledge our firm allegiance to those values 
that we hold ever true. I offer the best wishes from the 
people of The Gambia — the smiling coast of Africa.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of The Gambia for the statement he has just made.
17-29281
13/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
Mr.  Adama  Barrow,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  The  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Constitutional President of the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia.
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma, 
Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the people of Bolivia, I wish to express our 
full solidarity with the people of Mexico. Alarmed by 
this  afternoon’s  earthquake,  we  extend  our  support 
and  brotherhood 
the 
resulting problems.
to  Mexico  as 
it  addresses 
Once  again,  as  leaders  of  the  world  we  have 
gathered  here  in  the  historic  Hall  of  the  General 
Assembly. We meet yet again to voice our positions on 
the  major  challenges  facing  our  family —  the  human 
family. The United Nations, as set forth in its Charter, 
was  established  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
war, promote social progress and improve the standard 
of living of all peoples. Unfortunately, many of those 
promises have come to nothing, and after more than 70 
years we see that in many instances, instead of making 
progress towards those objectives, we have regressed.
imperialism, 
As  we  have  affirmed  many  times,  due  to  the 
abusive  practices  of 
the  market  of 
savage  consumption  that  supports  capitalism  and 
endless  colonialist  adventures,  the  world  is  enduring 
a multiplicity of crises that, instead of being resolved, 
are growing worse. War and violent conflict remain the 
scourge of millions of people. External aggressions in 
Iraq have led to more than a million deaths to date. In 
Syria, almost half a million people have lost their lives. 
In Libya, tens of thousands have been killed. In Yemen, 
the humanitarian crisis is of great proportions.
History  has  shown  that,  in  order  to  appropriate 
natural resources and control the world geopolitically, 
military  bases  are  deployed,  invasions  are  organized, 
and  Governments  are  brought  down  to  create  chaos 
and  take  advantage  of  the  situation.  Many  of  these 
invasions have fuelled the emergence of terrorist groups 
and  unleashed  violent  confrontations  and  attacks 
on  civilian  populations,  causing  even  more  harm  to 
innocent victims. Bolivia condemns terrorism and calls 
for fighting it and for resolving the structural causes of 
its emergence.
To  this  terrible  situation  is  added  the  climatic 
crisis. We note that this year has again been the hottest 
in  the  history  of  the  planet.  Hurricanes,  earthquakes, 
floods,  droughts,  pollution  of  the  air  and  oceans  and 
the consequent extinction of species are results of the 
capitalist  model,  consumption  levels  and  excessive 
industrialization. In this situation, the countries of the 
South, which pollute the least, are the ones that suffer 
the most. It is imperative that all our countries join the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change to work together 
to address the enormous challenges involved in saving 
the planet.
It 
that 
inadmissible 
is  unjustifiable  and 
the 
United States has decided to turn its back on the Paris 
Agreement.  As  one  of  the  world’s  main  polluters,  its 
Government,  by  refusing  to  do  its  part  in  the  global 
effort,  has  become  a  threat  to  Mother  Earth.  What  is 
necessary  is  unequivocal  political  will.  We  cannot 
expect  market  forces  to  finally  convince  the  leaders 
of  the  capitalist  world  to  take  action.  We  extend  our 
embrace of solidarity to our brothers and sisters in the 
Caribbean  who  are  suffering  the  consequences  of  the 
passage  of  hurricanes.  Together,  as  a  united  family, 
we  will  share  with  them  what  we  have,  even  if  it  is 
not enough.
Our rivers, our seas, our forests and science have 
given us irrefutable evidence and call upon us to act. 
Water  is  the  blood  of  Mother  Earth  that  gives  life  to 
rivers,  lakes,  seas  and  oceans,  which  in  turn  are  a 
source of life and generate balance. They are universal 
commons that cover three-quarters of our home. They 
bathe  everything  on  all  continents  and  islands  of  the 
Earth. They do this naturally, with no regard for political 
borders  or  nationalities.  They  should  be  respected, 
cared for, shared and preserved for future generations.
Bolivia has promoted the recognition that water is a 
human right. It is essential for the survival of humankind. 
Accordingly,  our  Constitution  also  prohibits  it  from 
being the used for profit or commercialism. The use of 
14/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
water must lead the way to opportunities that promote 
collaboration, interaction and harmony among peoples, 
not to cause conflicts over its origin, ownership or use. 
It  is  in  this  spirit  of  safeguarding  human  rights  and 
sovereign rights related to our natural resources and in 
pursuit  of  good-neighbourly  agreements  that  Bolivia 
hopes to resolve its Silala water dispute, which has been 
brought  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  Water 
should  not  be  the  cause  of  internal  or  international 
conflicts.  It  must  bring  together  and  unite  all  States, 
nations,  communities,  peoples,  social  movements  and 
individuals.  For  Bolivia,  which  is  the  hydrographic 
heart of South America, this concept is very important. 
Where water flows, peace must flow.
Not only is the world growing warmer every year, 
but  each  succeeding  year  is  growing  more  unfair  and 
more  unequal.  The  gap  between  those  who  have  the 
most  —  everything  —  and  those  who  have  almost 
nothing is widening every day. According to the most 
recent report from Oxfam, eight people have the same 
amount of wealth as 3.6 billion people, that is, half of 
the population of the planet.
Inequality is immoral. If 800 million people suffer 
from hunger, it is not because there is a lack of food. If 
millions of children die from infection, it is not because 
there is a lack of medicine. If 1.1 billion people do not 
have electricity, it is not because of a lack of energy in 
the world. If there is illiteracy, it is not because there 
are no books. If there are poor people in the world, it is 
not because there are no resources.
Due to war, terrorism and other conflicts, we are 
experiencing  the  worst  humanitarian  crisis  since  the 
founding of the United Nations. More than 128 million 
people in 33 countries require humanitarian assistance. 
More  than  65  million  people  have  been  forcibly 
displaced. More than 22 million are refugees, which is 
the highest number ever recorded in the human history. 
More than 10 million people are stateless.
This calls for our attention. Bolivia condemns the 
construction of walls and laws that seek to criminalize 
migration.  Accordingly,  we  propose  the  creation  of 
a  universal  citizenship.  The  social  and  immigration 
crisis has its origin in the dominant world order, with 
its  limitless  greed  for  profit  and  appropriation  of  the 
commons,  produces  violence,  promotes  inequalities 
and  destroys  Mother  Earth.  Migrants  cannot  be  held 
responsible  for  the  economic  and  financial  crises  or 
for insecurity. We must not allow them to be viewed as 
criminals either. No migrant is illegal.
Some  Governments,  far  from  helping  to  resolve 
the structural causes of this phenomenon, such as war, 
the  consequences  of  climate  change  or  the  economic 
asymmetries  among 
the  States,  proclaim  greater 
restrictions 
their  migration  policies,  massive 
expulsions  and  the  building  of  walls.  Walls  counter 
the  history  of  humankind.  Walls  cripple  science  and 
knowledge.  Walls  confine  our  souls,  fuel  hatred  of 
difference and stifle freedom.
in 
In  Tiquipaya,  Bolivia,  representatives  of  social 
movements  from  45  countries  around  the  world  came 
together at the World Peoples’ Conference in June for 
a world without walls towards universal citizenship. At 
that conference, we drafted alternative proposals with 
a  humanist  vision  to  welcome,  protect,  promote  and 
integrate migrants. In August, Pope Francis dedicated a 
pastoral document to those four verbs.
We  too  call  on  the  Governments  of  the  world  to 
come together to tackle criminal networks that traffic 
in  human  beings  by  declaring  the  trade  and  traffick 
in  human  beings  as  a  crime  against  humanity  and  by 
considering  the  formation  of  a  world  ombudsman 
as  an  authority  of  universal  jurisdiction  responsible 
for  ensuring  human  rights.  Once  again,  I  call  for  a 
global  pact  to  act  as  the  bridge  to  move  towards  the 
universal citizenship that we desire, because there are 
no  categories  and  there  are  no  differences  between 
nationals and foreigners. We are all human beings and 
children of Mother Earth.
The United States of America must unilaterally and 
unconditionally put an end to the unjust embargo that 
has caused so much suffering to the Cuban people for 
nearly  60  years.  It  is  an  unjust  and  failed  policy,  and 
must be abandoned. The recent actions announced by 
President Trump spell a resurgence in the financial and 
trade  embargo  against  Cuba  and  reverse  the  progress 
made between the two nations. The United States must 
not  only  lift  that  criminal  embargo,  but  also  make 
economic reparations for the damage caused and return 
Guantánamo to Cuban sovereignty. I pay deepest tribute 
to the memories of Commander Fidel and Commander 
Che  Guevara,  who  from  this  very  rostrum  warned  us 
not to trust imperialism.
We  welcome  the  peace  process  in  Colombia, 
ceasefire, 
the  Fuerzas 
including 
disarmament  and 
consolidation  of 
the 
the 
integration  of 
the 
17-29281
15/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
Armadas  Revolucionarias  de  Colombia  into  political 
life. Revolutions take place through the ballot box and 
social  consensus,  not  through  bullets.  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean are coming together as a region of 
peace.
Bolivia  unequivocally  condemns  the  unilateral 
sanctions  and  the  threats  of  invasion  levelled  by 
the  Government  of  the  United  States  against  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela.  Our  region  is 
nobody’s back yard. We also reject the conduct of the 
Secretary  General  of  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  Luis  Almagro,  who  is  the  spokesperson  for 
anti-Latin American interests. We express our support 
for  and  solidarity  with  President  Nicolás  Maduro  and 
the  Venezuelan  people.  We  welcome  and  support  the 
ongoing democratic dialogue.
For  Bolivia,  the  Palestinian  cause  is  indisputable. 
We  condemn 
the  criminal  Israeli  occupation  of 
Palestinian  territory.  We  condemn  the  construction 
of  new  settlements,  and  we  condemn  military 
aggression against the Palestinian people. We demand 
the  achievement  of  a  two-State  solution  and  the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  withing  the  pre-
1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We  condemn  the  unilateral  and  illegal  military 
actions  of  the  United  States  in  deploying  its  forces 
in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic.  We  welcome  the  efforts 
of  the  Secretary-General,  Russia,  Iran,  Turkey  and 
Kazakhstan in seeking a ceasefire and in contributing 
to the peace negotiations process. We believe that if it 
were not for interventionism, we would not be suffering 
that war.
Bolivia condemns the production, development and 
use of all nuclear and chemical weapons, which pose a 
serious threat to peace, security and human life itself. 
We demand that all military interventions be avoided in 
resolving the situation in the Korean peninsula, and that 
negotiations be resumed as soon as possible to resolve 
that conflict peacefully. It is clear that the main threat 
to mother Earth, multilateralism, peace and freedom is 
the Government of the United States of America.
It is my duty to describe the economic and social 
situation  of  my  country.  Bolivia  has  consolidated  an 
economic  model  that  has  successfully  coped  with  the 
global  crisis  of  the  capitalist  system.  Bolivia  leads 
economic growth in our region. We have recovered our 
homeland.  Bolivia  is  a  land  that  is  free  of  illiteracy, 
free of North American military bases, free of the Drug 
Enforcement  Administration  and  free  of  the  United 
States  Agency  for  International  Development.  It  is  a 
land  free  of  impositions  by  the  World  Bank  and  the 
International Monetary Fund.
Over  the  past  decade,  we  have  reduced  extreme 
poverty from 38.2 per cent to 16.8 per cent, and we will 
eradicate  it  by  2025.  We  have  reduced  inequality.  In 
2005,  the  wealthiest  10  per  cent  held  128  times  more 
wealth than the poorest 10 per cent; now, the wealthiest 
10 per cent hold 46 times more wealth than the poorest 
10 per cent. Bolivia ranks second in the world among 
the countries with the most women in Parliament. We 
are committed to multilateralism, the principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  peaceful  and 
negotiated resolution of conflicts.
In  2003,  Bolivia  came  before  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  in  The  Hague,  seeking  a  peaceful 
solution  to  its  unresolved  100-year-old  dispute  with 
the Republic of Chile that would allow us to exercise 
our right to sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean. We 
seek a solution that will satisfy both the historical and 
legislative  background  and  the  future  understanding 
between neighbourly and fraternal peoples through an 
opportune and effective negotiation in good faith.
We trust in the Court’s decision and in a process of 
dialogue and negotiation that, unlike the invasions that 
we have suffered in the past, will help us to overcome 
our  differences  and  promote  our  complementarity, 
free  and  sovereign  access  to  the  Pacific  Ocean  and 
the  proper  use  of  our  shared  natural  resources.  We 
are  grateful  for  the  solidarity  shown  by  many  States, 
peoples and leaders who have expressed their support 
for our maritime cause. I take this opportunity to ask 
all participants in the Assembly to accompany us in our 
peaceful quest for justice. It is anunwavering challenge 
for  the  brotherhood  of  our  people  over  the  coming 
generations. 
With  every  passing  year,  our  challenges  become 
greater.  War  continues  to  destroy  cities  and  global 
warming is a growing threat. If we truly want to resolve 
those issues and defend the interests of our peoples, it 
is essential to recognize basic services as human rights, 
respect  the  rights  of  Mother  Earth  and  take  up  the 
fight against capitalism, colonialism and imperialism. 
Only  if  we  win  that  fight  will  there  be  an  authentic 
global  order,  based  on  solidarity,  equality  and  social 
justice and respect for the right of peoples to peace and 
development so that they can live comfortably.
16/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Constitutional President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia for the statement 
he has just made.
the 
Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
Constitutional  President  of 
the  Plurinational 
State  of  Bolivia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, 
President of the Republic of Honduras
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Honduras.
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Orlando  Hernández 
Alvarado, President of the Republic of Honduras, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Hernández  Alvarado 
in 
Spanish): On behalf of the people of Honduras, I would 
like to extend greetings to the General Assembly.
(spoke 
The  Honduran  people  extend  solidarity  to  their 
Mexican brothers and sisters in the wake of the recent 
tragedy.  I  reiterate  our  commitment  to  continuing  to 
provide supplies and support.
Three years ago, I addressed the General Assembly 
for  the  first  time  (see  A/69/PV.7).  Three  years  later, 
I  would  like  to  reflect  on  how  Honduras  has  met  the 
challenges  it  has  encountered.  Today,  I  would  like  to 
share with the Assembly and with the world how we are 
building a new Honduras.
Four  years  ago,  transnational  organized  crime  in 
Honduras led to high levels of violence seen in very few 
countries around the world. At the end of 2013, there 
were 75 murders per 100,000 inhabitants, and two years 
prior to 2013, the figure stood at almost 90 murders per 
100,000  inhabitants.  From  2013  to  date,  however,  the 
murder rate of 75 per 100,000 inhabitants has fallen by 
almost 30 percentage points.
The most recent Global Peace Index issued by the 
Institute  for  Economics  and  Peace  indicates  that  our 
management  of  the  situation  has  placed  Honduras  17 
places higher in the global peace ranking. We have also 
managed to lower our fiscal deficit to 3 per cent from 
8 per cent of gross domestic product. We have improved 
the Honduran economy and growth this year stands at 
4.1 per cent. Our exports have increased, investments 
are  on  the  rise  and  our  national  reserves  are  enough 
to  purchase  almost  six  months  worth  of  imports.  The 
country’s  national  currency  has  been  revalued  and 
inflation  is  very  moderate.  Risk-rating  agencies  have 
raised  Honduras’  credit  rating.  Our  rating  is  now  the 
best we have ever had.
This  year,  we,  along  with  neighbour  Guatemala, 
started  the  first  customs  union  of  the  Americas. 
Honduras  and  Guatemala  now  have  a  zone  with  free 
movement of goods, services and people. In addition, 
we are negotiating with our brothers of El Salvador and 
Nicaragua to join the customs union and, in the future, 
we hope that Costa Rica and Panama will also become 
members.  In  that  way,  we  will  become  the  seventh 
largest market in Latin America.
El  Salvador,  Nicaragua  and  Honduras  have  also 
launched a plan to develop the Gulf of Fonseca, which 
has  the  support  of  the  Central  American  Bank  for 
Economic  Integration.  That  will  enable  us  to  create 
a  genuine  hub  for  economic,  tourism  and  social 
development in the Pacific region. It will be the region’s 
first special economic zone. This region, formerly rife 
with  conflict  among  the  three  nations,  will  become  a 
development hub for the good of our three countries.
investment  will  have 
I  would  also  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly  the 
fact  that  Honduras  is  poised  to  make  extraordinary 
headway  in  attracting  investment.  I  am  referring 
to  the  establishment  of  employment  and  economic 
in  which  both  national  and 
development  zones, 
international 
institutional 
guarantees  in  four  key  areas  —  the  legal,  economic, 
administrative and political spheres — based on good 
practices  that  are  familiar  to  companies  and  workers 
in  prosperous  countries.  My  country  and  people’s 
very  productive  labour  force  will  then  have  the  best 
opportunities  in  the  world,  under  the  Honduran  flag. 
Based  on  the  economic  development  plan,  Honduras 
2020, we will be creating at least 600,000 new jobs for 
Hondurans over the next five years.
Over  the  past  four  years,  we  have  invested 
approximately  $2  billion  in  infrastructure  to  make 
Honduras  a  major  logistics  hub  in  Central  America. 
We  have  built  airports,  ports  in  the  Atlantic  and  the 
17-29281
17/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
Pacific,  highways,  an  interoceanic  highway  and  a 
next-generation customs model. All of this will allow 
the  Central  American  region  to  have  an  outstanding 
logistics system.
We  are  also  making  strides  in  the  areas  of 
transparency and counter-corruption. We are the only 
country  in  the  world  that  has  signed  an  agreement 
with  Transparency  International  to  work  with  that 
organization  in  five  civil  service  sectors.  We  have 
made  considerable  progress  in  applying  international 
standards when acquiring and setting up infrastructure, 
through the Construction Sector Transparency initiative.
We  are  cleaning  up  our  national  police.  We  are 
creating a new police institution. We are strengthening 
our  public  ministry.  We  are  created  anti-corruption 
courts.  We  entered  into  an  agreement  with 
the 
Organization of American States to establish what we 
call  the  Mission  of  Support  against  Corruption  and 
Impunity.  In  addition  we  have  reorganized  system 
through  which  the  national  health  system  purchases 
medicines.
In  line  with  our  commitment  to  the  Sustainable 
in  particular  Goal  1,  our 
Development  Goals, 
Administration  has  implemented  the  most  ambitious 
social  programme  to  protect  our  most  vulnerable 
citizens. We have named this programme Better Life. 
It helps us to bring dignity to our compatriots suffering 
from  extreme  poverty.  There  are  already  nearly 
2.5 million participants involved in at least one of the 
components of Better Life.
I would also like to state that Honduras fully supports 
the reform of the United Nations system promoted by 
the Secretary-General in order to achieve the objectives 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
international  crime, 
Our countries face major challenges due to climate 
change,  the  emergence  of  the  nuclear  threat,  poverty, 
organized 
terrorism,  racism, 
intolerance  and  human  rights  violations.  These  are 
challenges  that  we  must  analyse  and  face  together 
with determination and absolute commitment. Climate 
change has been relentless, bringing a tragic series of 
hurricanes  and  tropical  storms.  I  wish  to  express  our 
solidarity and condolences to our brothers affected by 
the destructive force of these recent natural phenomena, 
and we encourage the Assembly to assist the countries, 
predominantly in the Caribbean, that have suffered so 
much devastated. Honduras will be present, as we have 
already offered, for our brothers.
Nuclear  weapons  also  pose  a  serious  threat  to 
humankind, and worse still is the threat of using them. 
Honduras rejects the recent nuclear-weapons tests. We 
support the resolutions adopted by the Security Council, 
as  well  as  the  channels  conducive  to  the  diplomatic 
management of tensions and threats to world peace.
Poverty is high on the agendas of Governments in 
developing countries. We have a duty to overcome the 
structural conditions that exclude large sectors of our 
societies from access to goods and services that would 
otherwise allow for a dignified life and opportunities 
for the comprehensive development of peoples, families, 
our communities and our countries.
Poverty has effects on the environment. It fosters 
internal  and  international  migration  and  has  serious 
social consequences stemming from the breakdown of 
the family breakdown and the separation it engenders, 
generating  insecurity  and  violence.  It  causes  much 
suffering. We must combat poverty with social safety 
nets,  access  to  basic  health  and  education  services, 
inclusive and sound credit and technical assistance to 
avoid depriving people of the goods that are essential 
to life.
However,  as  developing  countries  we  face  the 
problem  of  the  criterion  that  developed  countries 
have  adopted  to  allocate  cooperation  resources.  What 
do  I  mean?  Just  think.  The  criterion  used  is  that  of 
classification  by  means  of  the  national  income  of 
countries  at  three  levels:  high,  medium  and  low. 
The  premise  is  that  most  help  will  go  to  low-income 
countries, and that middle- and high-income countries 
have  a  greater  internal  capacity  to  overcome  poverty. 
Because  of  that,  the  countries  that  are  most  harmed 
when it comes to access to international aid are those 
classified in the middle-income category, as is the case 
for Honduras.
Our  country  is  committed  to  the  defence  and 
promotion of human rights. For Honduras, respect for 
the human person constitutes a State policy. We recently 
established  a  secretariat  for  human  rights.  We  have 
institutionalized  a  mechanism  for  dialogue  between 
the  Government  and  human  rights  organizations,  and 
we also manage the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights in Honduras, which is 
already open and functioning.
It  is  very  painful  for  any  person  to  be  forced  to 
leave their family, customs and the land of their birth. 
The  migrants  of  our  era  are  our  new  martyrs.  They 
18/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
are  the  new  heroes  who  fight  abroad,  fight  adversity, 
work tirelessly, carry out the most difficult work under 
the  most  difficult  conditions  and  yet  still  press  on. 
They  are  still  able  to  contribute  to  their  countries  of 
destination with their talent, culture, dedication, efforts 
and by paying taxes. Our Honduran compatriots, who 
migrated  when  they  faced  difficult  circumstances  in 
our  country,  make  us  proud  of  their  endeavours,  and 
we therefore demand that they be treated in a way that 
is dignified and commensurate with their contribution 
to the countries to which they have gone to build a new 
life.
Honduras is endeavouring to improve the conditions 
of  our  citizens  so  that  they  do  not  have  to  leave,  to 
abandon  their  homeland  and  families  in  search  of 
opportunities in other countries. However, we are also 
working  with  our  brother  countries  in  Latin  America 
to  ensure  that  there  is  recognition  of  the  contribution 
of  those  who,  due  to  natural  phenomena,  have  been 
granted  temporary  protection  status,  and  for  children 
who had to leave with their parents, grew up far from 
their homeland and began to dream in another.
May those dreams continue. May dreamers imagine 
a  new  world  and  be  fuelled  by  hope,  turning  their 
yearnings  into  reality.  We  have  worked  for  that  new 
world the last four years. That new world is the reason 
we  are  here  today.  We  are  confident  that  our  actions 
will allow us to see the rising of a new sun, of a new 
day. Nothing and no one can forbid us to dream. Let us 
continue to dream. Together, we can build a better world 
for our children and for the children of our children.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Honduras for the statement he hasjust made. 
Mr. Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado, President 
of the Republic of Honduras, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Sebastian  Kurz,  Federal  Minister  for 
Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Austria.
I was concerned about three serious challenges. First, 
violent conflict had returned to Europe with the crisis 
in and around Ukraine. Secondly, with the success of 
Da’esh in Iraq and Syria, radicalization and extremism 
sharply  increased  within  our  societies.  Thirdly,  the 
potential  humanitarian  consequences  of  a  nuclear 
explosion became a growing concern.
Today we still face a violent conflict in and around 
Ukraine.  Acts  of  extremism  and  terrorism  continue, 
and the crisis in North Korea demonstrates that the risk 
of a nuclear confrontation is higher than the world has 
seen in a long time.
While  we  have  achieved  a  lot  over  the  past 
years,  there  are  still  too  many  conflicts  around  the 
world — conflicts that result in terrible human suffering, 
such  as  in  Syria,  South  Sudan,  Ukraine,  Yemen  or 
Libya. There are also new sources of instability, such as 
in Venezuela or in Myanmar. On a global level, poverty, 
hunger and climate change, as well as organized crime 
and the proliferation of weapons remain key concerns. 
What  really  worries  me  is  that  we  seem  to  have  lost 
trust  in  the  ability  of  States  and  institutions  to  solve 
these challenges.
there 
to 
is  no  alternative 
As current Chair-in-Office of the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), I can see 
this on a regular basis. This is a dangerous development 
because 
international 
cooperation. We need only took at terrorism. Terrorist 
organizations, such as Da’esh, work on a global scale. 
More  than  25,000  persons  die  each  year  in  terrorist 
attacks all over the world and almost all of them are the 
result of extreme radicalization. This is why, as OSCE 
Chair, the fight against radicalization is a priority for 
us. We are working on concrete recommendations for 
OSCE States on how to better prevent and stop radical 
groups from misleading our citizens.
What  we  need  to  do  is  to  destroy  these  radical 
groups militarily where they operate, such as in Syria 
and  Iraq,  but  we  also  have  to  be  clear  that  after  our 
military  success,  more  foreign  terrorist  fighters  will 
return to our societies. That is why, at the same time, we 
also have to continue the fight within our own societies. 
We have to take more action to stop radicals with police 
measures and prevent our youth from being misled by 
these terrorists.
Mr. Kurz (Austria): The world has never felt more 
insecure, at least not in my lifetime. Three years ago, 
when I first spoke from this rostrum (see A/69/PV.15), 
The  migration  crisis  is  another  global  problem 
and  source  of  instability.  Over  60  million  people  are 
on  the  move  worldwide.  No  country  can  manage  this 
17-29281
19/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
crisis  on  its  own.  If  we  look  at  demographics,  we 
know that we have to act now. In the next 30 years, the 
world population will grow from 7.5 to about 10 billion 
people.  Africa’s  population  alone  will  double  from 
1.2 to 2.5 billion people.
Recent  years  have  shown  how  difficult  such 
a  massive  migration  movement  can  become.  Over 
1  million  people  have  come  to  Europe  via  smugglers 
and thousands died in the Mediterranean Sea. We need 
to  stop  this.  Uncontrolled  migration  leads  to  chaos. 
Therefore,  we  need  to  manage  orderly  migration  and 
support people as much as possible in their countries of 
origin. In order to achieve this, we should address three 
key issues.
First,  countries  need  to  effectively  control  their 
borders.  Without  such  control,  no  Government  can 
establish security and maintain public support for legal 
immigration.  Citizens  need  to  have  confidence  that 
their Governments — not the smugglers — decide who 
should cross the border. Secondly, the business model 
of  traffickers  of  human  beings  must  be  destroyed. 
Securing  the  borders  is  the  most  important  first  step. 
Smugglers  cannot  sell  their  tickets  to  Europe  when 
there is no way to come through. People that are saved 
shall be brought back to their countries of origin or to 
internationally  monitored  migration  centres  in  their 
region. Thirdly, we need effective support for countries 
of origin to establish a local perspective for the young 
generation there. This is why, over the past four years, 
Austria has doubled its bilateral development assistance 
and quadrupled its emergency fund. I am pleased that 
the United Nations is developing a global compact on 
migration, as well as a compact on refugees. They should 
ensure  a  more  coordinated  international  approach  to 
deal with these challenges.
Cooperation is also key when we address crises and 
conflicts  around  the  globe.  The  crisis  in  and  around 
Ukraine has lasted for far too long. More than 10,000 
people  have  died  and  3.8  million  people  are  in  need 
of  humanitarian  aid.  Despite  the  Minsk  agreements, 
heavy  weapons  continue  to  move  into  the  region  and 
mines  are  being  laid;  despite  negotiations  with  the 
Normandy  group,  the  political  process  is  stalled;  and 
despite  regular  meetings  of  the  Trilateral  Contact 
Group, there is no progress on the ground. The worst 
thing  is  that  civilians  suffer  the  most.  The  OSCE 
Special  Monitoring  Mission  is  key  to  stabilizing  the 
situation,  but  its  unarmed  monitors  are  increasingly 
threatened and, for the first time, the Mission lost one 
of its members.
Yet, despite this tragic incident, it is important to 
maintain  the  Mission.  From  my  visit  to  the  conflict 
zone,  I  know  that  without  the  OSCE  Monitoring 
Mission,  the  situation  would  become  even  worse. 
Therefore, in March this year, the OSCE strengthened 
the  Mission  by  increasing  the  number  of  monitors  up 
to 1,000 and by providing better technical equipment. 
I also welcome the discussions in the Security Council 
to increase the security situation of the OSCE monitors, 
possibly with a United Nations peacekeeping operation. 
More safety for monitors means more monitors on the 
ground, and more monitors on the ground means more 
security for the local population. We are also working 
hard  to  find  political  solutions  that  extend  beyond 
ceasefires. The goal remains clear — a free and stable 
Ukraine with good relations with both its western and 
eastern neighbours.
Allow  me  to  turn  to  another  security  threat  that 
we  must  deal  with.  The  risk  of  nuclear  confrontation 
today  is  bigger  than  it  has  been  in  a  long  time.  The 
consequences  of  a  nuclear  explosion  are  extremely 
grave,  nuclear  disarmament  remains  the  number-
one  unfinished  business  worldwide,  and  the  recent 
escalation  of  tensions  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea is a clear warning signal.
Austria has been consistently engaged in efforts to 
reduce the risk of a nuclear disaster and to work for a 
world without nuclear weapons. This is a hard and long 
road, and we are not naive about that, but it is a goal 
that is worth fighting for. In that regard, we welcomed 
the  Vienna  agreement  that  placed  Iran’s  nuclear 
activities under international monitoring. Undermining 
that  agreement  now  would  weaken  efforts  to  achieve 
negotiated solutions for nuclear disputes.
The  new  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons is an important achievementin this connection. 
It  is  a  crucial,  positive  step  to  get  rid  of  all  nuclear 
weapons.  Today  we  often  hear  that  nuclear  weapons 
are  necessary  for  security.  This  narrative  is  not  only 
wrong,  it is  also dangerous. The  new Treaty provides 
a  real  alternative:  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons, 
where  everyone  is  safer.  The  overwhelming  support 
of the international community in adopting the Treaty 
demonstrates  that  many  countries  share  that  goal.  I 
hope that we will be successful with our initiative.
20/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
At a time when universal values are under threat, we 
need to be strong in standing up for human rights, the 
rule of law and good governance. Protecting civilians 
and human rights has always been a priority of Austria’s 
foreign  policy.  That  is  why  we  hope  to  be  elected  to 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2019-2021, 
and I would like to ask the Assembly for its support. I 
can assure members that Austria will continue to work 
for  effective  international  cooperation,  and  we  will 
continue to actively support the United Nations and its 
new Secretary-General.
The Acting President: I now call on his Excellency 
Mr. Isselkou Ould Ahmed Izid Bih, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of Mauritania.
Mr.  Bih  (Mauritania)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  gives 
me pleasure to read out the statement of His Excellency 
Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Azia,  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, on the occasion of the 
convening of the seventy-second session of the General 
Assembly.
“First,  I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák and to his friendly country, Slovakia, on his 
election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session. I would also like to express 
my deep appreciation for Mr. Peter Thompson and 
his  valuable  efforts  during  his  presidency  of  the 
seventy-first  session.  I  would  also  like  to  greatly 
commend  the  tireless  and  noble  efforts  of  His 
Excellency  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  António 
Guterres,  in  leading  our  Organization  and  in  the 
service of international peace and security.
“The  theme  of  our  session,  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on a sustainable planet”, is a appropriate choice in 
a world witnessing great challenges. In that regard, 
Mauritania plays a pivotal role in the maintenance of 
international peace and security in the Sahel and the 
Sahara regions through a comprehensive approach 
based on openness, dialogue, professionalism and 
firmness.  Our  efforts  have  been  crowned  with 
success against terrorist groups after fierce battles 
in 2010 and 2011.
“In  spite  of  an  extremely  complex  regional 
situation,  experts  have  noted  that  Mauritania  has 
succeeded in dealing with terrorism and extremism. 
We  have  developed  our  security  and  defence 
capabilities  in  record  time,  with  due  attention  to 
individual  and  collective  rights  and  with  extreme 
care  for  the  least  fortunate  of  society.  That  has 
been achieved by adopting a policy of sustainable 
development.  Reporters  Without  Borders  noted 
improvement  over 
three  successive  years  of 
continuous progress at the Arab and regional levels. 
We have also established a policy of dialogue, while 
ensuring the freedoms of expression, demonstration 
and  organization,  as  well  as  human  rights,  after 
the so-called Arab Spring that swept over certain 
Arab countries.
“We have succeeded in establishing a political 
dialogue  with  the  majority  and  the  opposition 
since  2011  and  introduced  substantive  legislative 
and  organizational  reforms,  thereby  empowering 
Mauritanian  women  and  establishing  the  value 
of  citizenship  and  goodwill  for  all.  We  have  also 
promoted  good  governance  and  comprehensive 
dialogue  with  the  opposition,  civil  society  and 
independent  persons,  and  since  September  and 
October  2016  we  have  succeeded 
in  further 
establishing our democracy, the rule of law and the 
organization of public resources.
“Our  region  faces  grave  dangers  in  terms  of 
climate change, terrorism, organized crime, drugs, 
illegal  weapons  and  illegal  migration.  Mauritania 
has  improved  its  legal  framework  in  accordance 
with international rights and standards, established 
14 agreements and protocols relating to terrorism, 
and  created  an  open  dialogue  with  Salafists  and 
religious  extremists  in  order  to  rehabilitate  and 
reintegrate them into society.
“Our  efforts  have  helped  us  achieve  a  high 
standing in the ranking by Australia’s Institute for 
Economics  and  Peace,  and  we  have  succeeded  in 
fighting drug-trafficking, being, on a list of 12 States 
prepared  by  the  United  States  State  Department, 
the  only  one  that  has  succeeded  in  dealing  with 
the issue. We have also succeeded in dealing with 
illegal  migration.  According  to  the  statistics  of 
the  International  Organization  on  Migration,  we 
reduced the number of illegal migrants from 36,000 
in 2006 to zero in 2014. We have hosted more than 
60,000 refugees so far and have been commended 
for our efforts in that regard.
“Mauritania  has  played  a  leading  role  in  the 
establishment  of  the  Group  of  Five  for  the  Sahel, 
17-29281
21/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
which also includes Mali, the Niger, Burkina Faso 
and Chad. We host the secretariat of this regional 
organization,  where  together  we  coordinate  our 
actions  in  the  areas  of  security  and  development. 
The organization has set out many joint programmes 
and  projects  that  have  gained  great  interest  from 
our international partners. The five members of the 
Group have also established a Joint Force and have 
coordinated their military and security operations 
with the headquarters located in Mali.
“The 
issue  of  human  rights  holds  great 
importance  in  our  national  policy.  Since  2012, 
slavery has been criminalized, and our legal codes 
have been strengthened to deal with the vestiges of 
slavery throughout the country. We have also set out 
a  road  map  that  includes  29  recommendations  on 
fighting terrorism. In accordance with the relevant 
documents of the United Nations, we established a 
social security agency that deals with the issue and 
assists all those who have suffered from it across 
the country.
the 
issues 
“We  have  also  resolved 
that 
Mauritanian  refugees  face  regarding  repatriation 
and  marginalization,  making  it  possible  for  them 
to  have  a  decent  life  and  reintegrate  into  society, 
as well as providing them with them employment 
opportunities and enjoyment of their rights.
the 
“The 
large  majority  of 
countries 
participating  in  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  of 
human  rights  have  commended  Mauritania  and 
its  policies.  Mauritanian  women  have  acquired 
great importance in the country and have been the 
subject  of  several  initiatives  to  enable  them  to  be 
present in all sectors and compete freely in fields 
that were previously monopolized by men, as well 
as participate adequately in political and social life. 
We have worked to enable Mauritanian women to 
join  regional  and  international  organizations  by 
proposing  their  candidatures,  and  we  have  had 
considerable  success  in  becoming  a  member  of 
certain important United Nations committees.
“With  a  view  to  establishing  justice  and 
equality  for  all  people,  we  have  introduced  major 
reforms  in  our  legal  codes  to  guarantee  the 
independence of the judiciary, to fight corruption 
and  bribery  and  to  promote  transparency.  This 
has  allowed  Mauritania  to  rank  high  among  26 
African countries in this field, according to a study 
prepared by the International Monetary Fund.
“In  view  of  our  important  strategic  position, 
we have striven to follow an economic investment 
policy  that  guarantees  the  rights  of  the  investor, 
with  a  view  to  attracting  foreign  investment. 
We  were  awarded  16  points  in  Doing  Business, 
prepared by the World Bank for 2016-2017, and are 
among the five countries in the world experiencing 
the highest rate of improvement.
“Crowning  the  credibility  of  the  country  at 
the  regional  and  continental  level  has  been  our 
chairing  of  the  African  Union  (AU),  following 
our  chairing  the  AU  Peace  and  Security  Council. 
During our mandates we have striven to participate 
in reaching peaceful solutions to the crises in Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Libya,  Mali  and  Burundi.  We  have  also 
participated positively in solving the crisis in The 
Gambia, and we strive continuously to assist other 
countries in overcoming their crises. We presided 
over the League of Arab States in 2016, organizing 
the summit meeting in Nouakchott for the first time.
the  Palestinian  cause, 
Mauritania calls upon the Assembly to work for the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State 
with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  accordance  with 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  Madrid  principles 
and other relevant international resolutions.
regard 
“With 
to 
“We  also  call  for  the  settlement  of  the  crisis 
in Yemen by supporting the legitimacy represented 
by  President  Abdrabbuh  Mansour  Hadi,  and  we 
welcome every effort by the United Nations in that 
crisis. With regard to Libya, we call upon all parties 
concerned to redouble their efforts to stand up to 
armed groups and restore stability and security to 
that  country.  We  also  urge  all  parties  concerned 
to  make  every  effort  to  reach  a  settlement  to  the 
Syrian crisis.
“Climate change is a great challenge facing us 
all in terms of sustainable development, particularly 
in the Sahel and Sahara area. We have experienced 
the  phenomenon  of  the  migration  of  sand  dunes, 
which  has  destroyed  huge  agricultural  areas  and 
grazing  lands.  We  have  prepared  appropriate 
policies to deal with that problem and have invested 
in the use of renewable sources of energy. We have 
been commended. for our efforts in that regard, as 
22/24 
17-29281
19/09/2017 
A/72/PV.6
one of the few African countries using renewable 
energy sources,
“Mauritania  hosts  the  headquarters  of  the 
Great Green Wall, an ambitious project over 7,000 
kilometres long and 15 kilometres wide, connecting 
the Atlantic coast of West Africa to the Red Sea in 
the East, benefiting 11 countries of the region. We 
also  welcomed  the  historic  2015  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  and  hope  that  all  parties  will 
uphold their commitments.
“The  reform  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  adaptation  of  its  bodies  to  deal  with  new 
challenges  —  particularly  the  Security  Council, 
which  is  responsible  for  international  peace  and 
security  —  have  become  an  urgent  necessity.  We 
support every effort in that regard.
“There  is  no  doubt  that  the  establishment  of 
justice  and  the  spreading  of  a  culture  of  peace 
and  tolerance  among  people  and  the  renouncing 
of 
terrorism,  extremism  and  violence  would 
encourage  and  help  establish  peace  and  security 
and realize sustainable development in the world.
“The Islamic Republic of Mauritania calls upon 
all Member States to work together for a world that 
enjoys  multilateralism  and  respects  the  principles 
of the United Nations with a view to establishing 
peace,  stability  and  security  in  which  people  live 
peacefully together.”
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
to the speaker in exercise of the right of reply, may I 
remind  delegations  that  statements  in  the  exercise 
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the 
first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second 
intervention, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr. Maleki (Islamic Republic of Iran): As usual, 
the  representative  of  the  Israeli  regime  today  made 
unfounded allegations against Iran (see A/72/PV.4). He 
tried to deceive the whole world by distracting public 
opinion from the horrific policies and practices of his 
own regime. However, the nature of that regime, which 
is  founded  on  aggression,  occupation,  suppression, 
violence  and  terror,  can  in  no  way  be  covered  up  by 
accusing others.
That is another type of weapon of mass destruction 
in the hands of that regime: a weapon of mass deception. 
Nevertheless, he ignored the fact that in the information 
age that weapon is becoming more useless by the day. 
Instead  of  lying,  accusing  others  and  attempting  to 
deceive public opinion, he should have explained to the 
General  Assembly  why  his  regime  has  invaded  all  of 
its  neighbours,  without  exception,  and  even  countries 
beyond the region, and waged more than 15 wars during 
its very short existence.
Why does it continue to show disrespect for dozens 
of resolutions adopted by the Assembly, while defying 
almost 100 Security Council resolutions and rejecting 
many  other  United  Nations  resolutions?  He  himself 
referred to some of them today and shamefully insulted 
those organs for adopting such resolutions.
Why  does  the  main  State  sponsor  of  terrorism 
continue to commit terrorist acts, including supporting 
the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  by,  inter  alia, 
providing it with arms and other military assistance?
exceptional 
capability 
that 
Indeed, 
including 
Ironically,  he  talked  about  Israel’s  exceptional 
regime  has  exceptional 
capability. 
in 
capability, 
committing all core international crimes — genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
of  aggression;  exceptional  capability  in  aggression 
and  occupation;  exceptional  capability  in  barbarism, 
atrocity and brutality; exceptional capability in killing 
defenceless women and innocent children; exceptional 
capability 
in  demolishing  homes  and  destroying 
schools  and  hospitals;  and  exceptional  capability  in 
supporting terrorism.
He  claimed  that  his  regime  had  saved  many  lives 
in various parts of the world, but he failed to explain 
why his regime takes the lives of Palestinians on a daily 
basis. Why does it, as the world’s last apartheid regime 
and  warden  of  the  world’s  largest  prison,  continue  to 
arrest  and  imprison  thousands  of  Palestinians  and 
impose  the  most  inhumane  blockade  against  millions 
of others in the Gaza Strip?
Does he think that by wearing white gloves he can 
cover up his red hands? Does he think that the world 
has  forgotten  the  Sabra  and  Shatila  massacre  by  the 
Zionist  regime  of  Israel,  in  which  they  killed  almost 
1,000  Palestinian  and  Lebanese  civilians  in  less  than 
48 hours? He should have explained why his regime, in 
addition to possessing a large arsenal of sophisticated 
conventional  weapons,  continues  to  possess  all  types 
17-29281
23/24
A/72/PV.6 
19/09/2017
of weapons of mass destruction — chemical, biological 
and nuclear ones.
Why does it continue to refuse to become a party 
to  treaties  banning  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  in 
particular the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons?  All  its  nuclear  activities  and  installations 
remain unsafeguarded as a consequence. Why does it 
reject the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone 
in the Middle East despite repeated calls by the United 
Nations,  the  international  community  and  consensual 
resolutions of the Assembly over the past 40 years?
One  of  the  questions  that  he  was  expected  to 
answer today is why that regime — which is the only 
possessor  of  nuclear  weapons  in  the  Middle  East  and 
also hides behind the hypocritical doctrine of strategic 
ambiguity  —  so  shamelessly  continues  to  lecture 
the  world  about  non-proliferation  and  the  dangers  of 
Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  whose  peaceful  nature  has 
continued to be certified regularly by the International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency,  even  following  the  strict 
implementation  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action (JCPOA).
Those  are  all  questions  that  he  was  expected  to 
answer.  Instead,  he  hypocritically  tried  to  abuse  the 
Assembly by merely accusing others. As the madman 
believes that all other men are mad, he also tried to stir 
up anxiety with regard to the JCPOA. Intrinsically and 
by  its  very  nature,  that  regime  is  against  resorting  to 
diplomacy and favours only conflicts and wars, which 
is the main sustenance of its life.
The meeting rose at 9 p.m.
24/24 
17-29281
