United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
10th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 September 2017, 6.05 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Biang (Gabon), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 6.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President 
of Romania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of Romania.
Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Klaus Werner 
Iohannis,  President  of  Romania,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Iohannis:  I  would  like  to  begin  my 
statement by conveying my condolences to the people 
of Mexico in the wake of the 19 September earthquake.
Let  me  welcome  the  theme  of  the  seventy-second 
the  General  Assembly,  “Focusing  on 
session  of 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on a 
sustainable planet”. Those are very important objectives 
that will require all of our determination as responsible 
leaders  in  order  to  achieve  them,  especially  when  we 
see obstacles before us. Indeed, people across the globe 
still  suffer  from  the  brutal  effects  of  war,  poverty, 
inequality and injustice. Tensions over cultural identity 
and faith are rising, even within traditionally open and 
tolerant  societies.  Natural  disasters  cause  increasing 
damage  every  season.  Terrorist  attacks  deepen  the 
sense of insecurity.
Even if there are some perceptions that the United 
Nations  has  not  dealt  well  with  the  multitude  and 
complexity  of  the  new  crises  at  hand,  it  is  clear  that 
no path serves us better than multilateralism in finding 
viable solutions for the current global challenges. More 
than ever, a rules-based international system — namely, 
the international rule of law — is vital  our success. The 
United  Nations  has  to  be  equipped  with  the  essential 
tools  to  perform  as  an  efficient  Organization  that 
reflects  the  will  of  its  Member  States  and  enjoys  the 
trust of all the people of the planet. At the same time, 
we, the Member States, must increase our commitment 
to the Organization.
Developing  and  sustaining  peace  require  not 
only a swift and adequate response to crises, but also 
an  understanding  of  the  root  causes  of  conflicts  and 
insecurity,  which  rarely  emerge  from  a  single  source. 
At  the  same  time,  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations 
is not only about conflicts and crises; it is also about 
sustainable  development  and  the  promotion  of  human 
rights. It is about hope and a decent life for all, which 
represent  the  only  foundation  on  which  we  can  build 
a  safe  and  sustainable  planet.  Working  on  education 
and ensuring the prosperity of our peoples are the most 
efficient ways to prevent instability and crises. Focusing 
our actions on people should remain the ultimate goal. 
How should we achieve that goal?
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29407 (E)
*1729407*
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
We  have  to  drive  the  implementation  of  the 
ambitious  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
forward, including in relation to conflict prevention and 
sustaining peace, as well as with respect to its Sustainable 
Development Goals. Romania has formulated essential 
development  policies  that  will  have  a  real  impact  on 
advancing the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. We 
have chosen to involve all political actors, civil society, 
the private sector and the scientific community in that 
process.  To  share  our  experience  in  coordinating  the 
national process of implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
and  to  discuss  our  progress,  Romania  will  submit  its 
voluntary  national  review  during  the  meeting  of  the 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 
to be held in July 2018.
We cannot lose sight of the stabilizing role that the 
United  Nations  plays  in  setting  the  broad  parameters 
of  contemporary  international  relations.  That  is  why 
our efforts to improve the effectiveness of the United 
Nations  should  remain  strong.  At  the  end  of  the  day, 
no matter what a reformed Security Council may look 
like in the future, we need the United Nations to have 
robust  policy-planning  capabilities  and  the  ability  to 
project visions for global peace and well-being beyond 
present crises.
Romania supports the Secretary-General’s focus on 
the creation of an integrated institutional structure for 
supporting  a  holistic  approach  to  crisis  management. 
We  also  strongly  advocate  for  modernizing  and 
increasing 
the  effectiveness  of  peace  operations. 
We  support  the  Secretary-General  in  his  efforts  to 
pursue meaningful reform on three priorities: conflict 
prevention,  sustainable  development  and  management 
reform, including reshaping the Secretariat in order to 
make the United Nations more efficient.
My  country  also  welcomes  the  reform  of  the 
counter-terrorism  architecture  of  the  United  Nations, 
as  well  as  the  steps  taken  by  the  United  Nations  to 
make counter-terrorism a key element of its prevention 
agenda.  Since  no  country  can  fight  such  a  terrible 
scourge alone, we trust that the newly established Office 
of Counter-Terrorism will increase our effectiveness in 
combating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. 
In  that  respect,  Romania  remains  committed  to  the 
common  initiative,  developed  with  Spain,  for  the 
possible future establishment of an international court 
against terrorism.
We also expect to see the United Nations increase its 
contribution to global efforts in the area of international 
migration,  including  in  addressing  the  problem  of  its 
main origins. We hope for a consistent follow-up to the 
New York Declaration. In my view, it is important to 
ensure that the global compact for migration, on which 
negotiations will start soon, will cover every aspect of 
international migration, to the benefit of both migrants 
and host communities.
We  also  support  the  reinforcement  of  the  human 
rights  dimension  within  all  relevant  areas  of  United 
Nations activities. That is why I welcome the Secretary-
General’s Human Rights up Front initiative, which aims 
to  mainstream  human  rights  policies  throughout  the 
United Nations system.
Earlier  today,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  organizing  a 
debate on a very important topic — making education 
for  peace.  The  use  of  identity  fears  and  of  the  us-
versus-them  paradigm  cannot  be  left  unanswered.  In 
the context of increasing violence and disinformation, 
Romania  is  convinced  that  it  is  only  through  quality 
education that we can counter the extremist trends that 
our young people are facing today.
At  the  same  time,  we  continue  to  be  concerned 
about security developments in and around our region. 
The belt of protracted conflicts around the Black Sea 
remains a serious threat. We are still witnessing actions 
that  offend  the  principles  and  norms  of  international 
law.  The  proliferation  of  protracted  conflicts  in  our 
neighbourhood  is  an  obstacle  to  regional  cooperation 
and has brought our mutual confidence to a historically 
low  level,  which  is  why  the  international  community 
should  actively  support  and  stimulate 
regional 
cooperation  and  confidence-building  measures  and 
decisively address conflicts.
Romania has constantly emphasized the importance 
of  strengthening  United  Nations  cooperation  with 
regional  and  subregional  organizations.  To  that  end, 
we  promoted  Security  Council  resolution  1631  (2005) 
in  our  capacity  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Council at the time. Romania would be proud to once 
again bring its contributions to the work of the Security 
Council. Our bid for a non-permanent seat for the 2020-
2021  term  is  about  my  country’s  sincere  engagement 
in  supporting  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  for 
peace  and  security  and  our  enduring  commitment  to 
peace,  development  and  justice.  If  that  endeavour  is 
successful,  we  will  be  honoured  to  work  even  harder 
2/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
for the advancement of our common projects and of the 
Organization as a whole.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Romania for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Klaus Werner Iohannis, President of Romania, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Arthur Peter Mutharika, President 
of the Republic of Malawi
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Malawi.
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Arthur Peter 
Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mutharika:  The  cause  that  rallies 
us  together  is  that  we  are  one  humankind  on  one 
planet.  That  is  the  tie  that  binds  us  all,  and  all  our 
differences and national interests are secondary to that 
overriding cause.
The United Nations was founded to safeguard the 
human race, its human rights and its potential. We are 
here to protect people, their existence and their rights. 
We are here to ensure that the potential of every people, 
everywhere, fully blossoms into flowers of hope. It is 
our sacred duty as a generation to take actions that offer 
hope to following generations.
It is therefore fitting that this year we are meeting to 
think about focusing on people. In Africa, we should be 
focusing on investing in the people if the full potential 
of African people is to be realized. The eradication of 
poverty and the pursuit of prosperity across the world 
should be based on raising the potential of the people 
we seek to support. Development cannot be taken to any 
people and succeed unless it is driven from within. No 
human community can take off economically without 
empowering its people to drive their own development 
agenda.  That  is  why  I  underline  the  importance  of 
investing in our human capital.
However, it is also a foregone conclusion that any 
effort  to  invest  in  the  people  and  raise  their  potential 
needs our collaboration as a global family; hence our 
appeal  for  concerted  action  by  all  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  and,  indeed,  many  global 
non-State actors.
The  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development by the United Nations reflects our global 
resolve to address the world’s most pressing challenges 
in  the  spirit  of  sustainable  human  collaboration.  Our 
unity among nations is imperative because we achieve 
more  when  we  unite  and  collaborate.  The  well-being 
of  global  society  is  more  assured  when  we  work  in 
partnerships  for  development.  At  the  same  time,  we 
achieve  more  within  our  nations  when  we  include  all 
sectors of society.
Statistics  provided  by  the  United  Nations  and  the 
World  Bank  show  that  there  is  a  correlation  between 
the inclusion and empowerment of women, on the one 
hand,  and  economic  growth  and  development,  on  the 
other. The inclusion and empowerment of women begin 
with a focus on the girl child. We need to do away with 
early marriages. Indeed, I am pleased to note a global 
drop in early marriages from 36 per cent to 26 per cent 
over a period of two years since 2015.
Malawi  is  proud  to  be  part  of  that  achievement. 
Among other initiatives, my Government has enacted 
a  law  against  marriage  below  the  age  of  18.  By  law, 
Malawi  provides  an  opportunity  for  girls  to  grow, 
mature  and  make 
their 
education and future life, so they are legally protected 
in  that  regard.  I  am  therefore  proud  to  reiterate  my 
Government’s  commitment 
to  promoting  gender 
equality and women and girls’ empowerment in order 
to reduce the vulnerabilities of women and adolescent 
girls to violence and all forms of abuse.
informed  choices  about 
Another critical category in the focus on people is 
young people. Youth empowerment is a way to achieve 
inclusion.  According  to  African  Economic  Outlook 
2015,  Africa  has  the  fastest-growing  and  youngest 
population  in  the  world.  In  giving  young  people  the 
focus they deserve, the African Union agreed in 2015 
to designate 2017 the Year of the Youth. This is the year 
we focus on investing in young people.
Malawi  is  honoured  to  be  part  of  the  mission  for 
youth empowerment. We have taken decisive measures 
that  include  providing  technical  and  entrepreneurial 
education  to  the  young  people  who  have  not  had  the 
17-29407
3/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
opportunity to attend university. At the same time, we 
are also increasing access to tertiary education.
One  more  category  that  needs  inclusion  is  that 
of  persons  with  disabilities.  Malawi  is  reviewing  its 
policies and strategies in education, health and trade in 
order  to  foster  the  effective  inclusion  of  persons  with 
disabilities.  We  have  also  made  strides  in  efforts  to 
eradicate vicious and irrational attacks against persons 
with  albinism.  There  was  a  time  when  these  attacks 
were rampant in some parts of the country. I am glad 
to report that there have not been any new ones in the 
past six months.
Malawi is committed to inclusive development. We 
recognize,  however,  that  the  majority  of  our  citizens 
continue to depend on agriculture for their livelihood. 
But  agriculture  is  a  challenging  sector,  given  the 
current climate variability affecting many parts of the 
world.  That  being  the  case,  Malawi  is  implementing 
social protection programmes aimed at cushioning the 
vulnerable  in  our  society.  Our  measures  include  cash 
transfer  programmes,  food  for  work,  school  feeding 
programmes  and  a  farm  income  subsidy  programme. 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
gratitude to cooperating partners, including the United 
Nations, for their continued technical and other support 
to the success of these programmes.
As we think of focusing on people, it is important 
to pay close attention to the issues that affect our most 
vulnerable  citizens.  Climate  change  tops  the  list.  For 
an  economy  that  depends  on  agriculture,  like  that  of 
Malawi, where 85 per cent of the people live in agrarian 
communities, crop failure is always a tragedy. For the 
past two years, Malawi has suffered alternating heavy 
rains, floods and drought that have led to crop failure 
and hunger. The suffering caused by climate change is 
evident  everywhere;  it  is  real.  The  people  who  suffer 
in  these  tragedies  are  not  just  figures  and  statistics, 
but real human souls. We must all feel the urgent need 
to  collectively  undertake  sustainable  management  of 
our  natural  resources.  We  must  remember  that  if  this 
planet perishes, we all perish with it. This is a matter 
that  demands  our  collective  responsibility.  I  therefore 
appeal to all Member States to consider strategies and 
avenues of collaboration that will enable us to adapt to 
the fast-changing climate.
state  of  fear,  and  anything  that  causes  humankind  to 
live  in  a  state  of  fear  is  an  evil  to  be  fought.  Malawi 
stands in solidarity with the victims of terrorism across 
the  world.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  standing 
against all forms of terrorism and we stand in solidarity 
with  the  victims  of  human  trafficking  and  forced 
migration, wherever they are.
Let  me  now  move  on  to  the  question  of  peace. 
Peace is a prerequisite for development. As a country, 
we believe in peace as a necessary condition for human 
existence.  For  that  reason,  Malawi  has  been  active  in 
the peacekeeping and peacebuilding operations of the 
United Nations and the African Union. Today, Malawi 
reaffirms  its  pledge  to  continue  to  act  as  an  envoy 
of  peace.  We  believe  that  is  our  duty  to  humankind. 
We  believe  that  in  protecting  our  neighbours,  we 
protect ourselves.
While we all seek peace as a necessary condition for 
existence, we also still face the threat of nuclear weapons. 
Nuclear weapons are an existential threat to humankind 
and of concern to us all. Ironically, even those nations 
that  possess  nuclear  weapons  are  concerned  about 
such threats. The idea of stockpiling nuclear weapons 
puts  the  wisdom  of  humankind  in  question.  Let  me 
categorically express my Government’s disapproval of 
the spread of ballistic-missile technology, which should 
not be tolerated in any way by any State Member of the 
United Nations. No country is too small to contribute 
to the peace agenda of the world and no continent is too 
poor to be part of the global peace agenda.
Malawi  strongly  supports  the  African  position  in 
favour  of  our  continent’s  full  representation  on  the 
Security  Council.  The  United  Nations  can  no  longer 
claim  to  take  the  lead  in  democracy  while  sidelining 
the  representation  of  1.2  billion  people  in  Africa. 
How  can  we  claim  to  be  united  with  those  whom  we 
exclude? Africa must be included at the table of global 
governance. Our rising Africa is always ready to play 
its  role  in  the  global  community,  and  Malawi  will 
continue to be a global player.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Malawi for the statement he has just 
made.
Apart  from  climate  change,  our  world  is  also 
collectively  facing  the  threat  of  terrorism.  Terrorism 
and  conflict  hinder  progress  and  leave  the  world  in  a 
Mr.  Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic of Malawi, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
4/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
Address by Mr. Hery Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana, 
President of the Republic of Madagascar
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Madagascar.
Mr. Hery Martial Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana, 
President of the Republic of Madagascar, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Hery Martial 
Rajaonarimampianina  Rakotoarimanana,  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana 
(spoke in French): I am very proud and honoured to be 
addressing the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session  in  my  capacity  not  only  as  President  of  the 
Republic of Madagascar and on behalf of the Malagasy 
people, but also as President of the Common Market for 
Eastern and Southern Africa and current President of 
the Summit of la Francophonie.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
election  of  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  as  President  of  the 
Assembly  and  to  extend  to  him  my  sincerest  and 
warmest congratulations. Madagascar, at his side as a 
Vice-President of the Assembly, which brings together 
the 193 States Members of the United Nations, and as 
host  of  the  sixteenth  Summit  of  la  Francophonie,  on 
26 and 27 November 2016, can only share in the values 
and ideals that unite us here to achieve a more just and 
stable world together — development, peace, security 
and international law.
The theme of our debate, “Focusing on the human 
being:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”,  appeals  to  us  all  because 
the  very  raison  d’être  of  every  State  is  to  ensure  its 
people’s welfare through the ways and means of their 
own  choosing.  For  Madagascar,  the  choice  is  clear 
and  obvious.  We  have  placed  and  continue  to  place 
the  human  individual  at  the  centre  of  our  concerns. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  relevance  of  this  year’s 
theme, and I am happy to share with the Members of 
the  Assembly  what  we  have  done  and  strive  to  do  in 
Madagascar since 2014 to provide a better and decent 
life for the Malagasy.
The  challenges  that  awaited  me  in  2014  —  when 
I  was  elected  by  the  Malagasy  people  to  preside  over 
their destiny on the heels of our protracted emergence 
from  a  five-year  political,  economic  and  social 
crisis — were significant. The country and people had 
been  overwhelmed  by  international  sanctions  for  five 
years,  which  exacerbated  the  poverty  rate,  affecting 
92 per cent of the population, and the incidence of food 
insecurity and malnutrition. The logical outcome of the 
crisis was political and social instability and an anaemic 
economy, not to mention corruption and insecurity.
However, we stepped up to meet those challenges. 
We  were  fully  convinced  that  Madagascar  had  no 
reason to remain poor, with its potential and its people, 
more than 50 per cent of whom are women and more 
than  61.3  per  cent  under  25  years  of  age.  If  everyone 
makes  their  own  resolute  contribution,  then  I  truly 
believe — optimist that I am — in economic recovery 
and national reconstruction leading to renewed growth. 
Those three pillars will enable our State to consolidate 
a  people-centred  approach.  In  fact,  like  many  of  the 
leaders and high-ranking officials present in the Hall, I 
am an upbeat optimist about my country, my continent 
and our collective future. Faced with challenges, I often 
think about what Nelson Mandela said: 
“After climbing a great hill, one only finds that 
there are many more hills to climb. It always seems 
impossible until done.”
There can be no doubt that this affirmation holds true 
for us all. 
Today,  one  year  before  Madagascar’s  2018 
presidential elections, after continued and determined 
efforts,  I  can  say  that  Madagascar  has  reached  a 
milestone  and  a  level  that  gives  rise  to  the  highest 
hopes,  given  the  progress  made  in  terms  of  both 
political  stability,  however  fragile,  and  economic  and 
social  prospects.  In  that  context,  I  can  say  that  since 
2016,  Madagascar  has  raised  $6.4  billion  in  global 
investment  and  aid  from  institutional  donors.  That 
has enabled us to start investing in key sectors of our 
economy and the future of our country. Worksites have 
been  opened  everywhere  with  a  view  to  permanently 
reducing the poverty of my country and assisting our 
most  vulnerable  strata.  Our  efforts  have  included 
institutional standardization, good governance and the 
establishment  of  conditions  conducive  to  improving 
the  political  climate,  in  particular  through  national 
reconciliation  and  implementation  of  our  national 
17-29407
5/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
development plan for revitalizing our economy through 
realizing the real potential of our wealth.
Our  policy  of  establishing  basic  infrastructure 
in  many  sectors  is  beginning  to  bear  fruit.  We  have 
received  support  from  our  partners  in  implementing 
the bases of the 2015-2019 national development plan in 
agriculture, cattle-raising, energy and fisheries. Lastly, 
we have shown that Madagascar can play a part on the 
world  stage  by  successfully  hosting  and  organizing 
regional  and  international  summits,  including  for  the 
Common  Market  for  Eastern  and  Southern  Africa 
and  the  Summit  of  la  Francophonie,  of  which  we  are 
currently President.
This year, we intend to pursue projects that include 
establishing  special  economic  zones  in  two  areas, 
creating  pilot  digital  cities,  accelerating  our  energy 
transition  and  strengthening  basic  infrastructure  to 
improve  education  and  public  health.  In  the  social 
sector, too, we are investing in education and training 
doctors, teachers and engineers.
In order to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 4, 
my Government has developed an ambitious education 
sector plan to ensure that children in Madagascar have 
access  to  quality  education.  We  are  also  investing  in 
rebuilding  our  health-care  system,  which  was  gutted 
and  destroyed  during  the  years  under  sanctions.  We 
have also reopened the health centres that were closed 
during  the  crisis  periods  in  order  to  revitalize  the 
network and expand it nationally.
In  general,  we  have  established  a  platform  for 
strengthening our health-care system to coordinate the 
health-related interventions of our various partners and 
improve  our  monitoring  of  disease.  Madagascar  has 
created  a  digital  epidemiological  surveillance  system 
that enables it to monitor in real time 28 diseases that 
have  the  potential  to  become  epidemics.  In  addition, 
the Government has taken steps to promote long-term 
actions such as launching universal health coverage and 
reducing maternal and infant mortality, a major aspect 
of maternal, newborn and child health.
The  budget  for  nutrition  has  been  increased, 
agricultural production has been diversified and specific 
water,  sanitation  and  nutrition  projects 
targeting 
vulnerable populations have been implemented through 
our national nutrition action plan.
We  are  also  investing  in  infrastructure  to  create 
jobs and accelerate economic growth. We are investing 
in  ports,  highways,  bridges  and  airports,  which  will 
reintegrate  Madagascar  into  the  global  economy. 
We  are  also  strengthening  our  tourism  industry  to 
create  decent,  paying  jobs  and  preserve  our  unique 
and  invaluable  ecology  and  biodiversity.  In  that 
context,  Madagascar  has  always  sought  to  uphold 
its  international  commitments.  The  commitment  we 
entered into in Durban in 2002 to tripling our protected 
area has been honoured; today those areas encompass 
more  than  6.9  million  hectares,  in  addition  to  our 
marine protected areas.
In  order  to  effectively  tackle  poverty,  we  must 
sustainably create wealth for the largest possible number 
of people while ensuring the responsible management 
of  natural  resources  and  combating  global  warming. 
We  must  also  develop  and  implement  appropriate 
sustainable  development  as  quickly  as  possible.  Low-
carbon, inclusive and shared growth that creates jobs, 
in particular for women and young people, must be the 
economic  model  of  tomorrow  in  order  to  ensure  that 
future  generations  enjoy  better  living  conditions  in  a 
protected environment.
Given  climate  change  and  the  threats  to  natural 
resources,  biodiversity  and  ecosystems,  we  have  no 
choice but to act quickly and we must not waste time. 
We therefore support the initiatives of the President of 
France aimed at putting a global environment pact in 
place.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Kingdom 
of  Morocco  for  providing  financial  assistance  to 
Madagascar, which is currently suffering from drought, 
in the framework of bilateral South-South cooperation. 
That is concrete action.
Our agriculture, which accounts for 26.4 per cent 
of  our  overall  gross  domestic  product  and  employs 
more than 75 per cent of the workforce, is considered 
one  of  the  main  drivers  of  our  economy.  We  are 
making  additional  efforts  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
establishing and developing agribusiness through land 
reform  in  order  to  enable  peasants  to  own  land.  We 
are  increasing  productivity,  building  infrastructure, 
guiding production to allow access to markets, capital, 
seeds  and  inputs,  and  providing  technical  services 
and training.
Given  all  of  this,  the  economic  outlook  for 
Madagascar  is  favourable;  our  growth  rate  is  around 
4 per cent in 2017 and next year will exceed 5 per cent. 
That  will  create  economic  momentum  and  help  to 
establish  a  new  development  trajectory  for  improving 
6/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
the  lives  of  the  people  of  Madagascar.  Our  aim  is  to 
raise  Madagascar  to  the  rank  of  a  middle-income 
country by 2030.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  inform  the  Assembly 
that we have begun a reform process for improving the 
independence of our judiciary and our anti-corruption 
office.  We  have  prepared  measures  to  protect  the 
integrity  of  our  democratic  processes,  not  to  mention 
public  security,  which  is  a  very  sensitive  area  in 
Madagascar.  The  reforms  we  have  undertaken  have 
allowed  us  to  enjoy  lasting  economic  recovery,  and  I 
am  convinced  that  this  recovery  will  be  supported 
by  greater  investment.  Our  economic  growth  rate  is 
expected  to  reach  more  than  6  per  cent  per  year  by 
2020. That is attainable.
Yesterday,  in  his  speech  at  the  opening  of  the 
general  debate  (see  A/72/PV.3),  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  expressed  the  hope  that  next  year 
his successor would be able to commend the progress 
made  at  the  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly with regard to such global challenges as the 
state of global peace and security, global disparities and 
inequalities, persistent poverty, the outrageous fact that 
we  have  more  than  65  million  refugees,  international 
terrorism, human rights, the preservation of the planet 
and  so  forth.  The  General  Assembly  already  has  the 
tools  it  needs  to  do  this,  and  now  it  is  a  matter  of 
strengthening  them  and  improving  the  way  they  are 
used  by  emphasizing  prevention.  Madagascar  will 
support the President in that regard.
This is also an opportunity for me to reiterate from 
the magnificent sounding board that is the rostrum of the 
General Assembly the appeal launched in Antananarivo 
at the sixteenth Summit of la Francophonie:
“Our  Francophone  community,  aware  of  its 
responsibilities  and  based  on  the  Antananarivo 
Declaration,  is  determined  to  work  for  shared 
growth,  sustainable  and  responsible  development, 
and  the  establishment  of  fairer  and  more  united 
economic  relations  by  strengthening  our  dialogue 
and influence in international forums. By holding 
high  our  values  of  solidarity  and  sharing  for  a 
more  peaceful  world,  we  call  for  a  new  model  of 
sustainable and inclusive development that responds 
to the concerns and meets the expectations of our 
peoples.”
We must also recall the importance of investing in youth.
I was pleased to learn yesterday that the first meeting 
of  the  United  Nations  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism, 
which was established at the initiative of the Secretary-
General, will be held next year. Madagascar expresses 
its readiness to work closely with the United Nations to 
sustainably eradicate the scourge of terrorism.
Finally,  I  cannot  conclude  without  expressing  my 
heartfelt  sympathy  for  Mexico,  which  just  yesterday 
experienced a new, deadly earthquake in Mexico City. 
On behalf of the country and the people of Madagascar 
and  myself,  I  would  like  to  express  my  solidarity, 
compassion  and  sincere  condolences  to  the  President, 
the people and the Government of Mexico, with special 
thoughts for those who have lost loved ones.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Madagascar for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Hery Martial Rajaonarimampianina Rakotoarimanana, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Madagascar,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Macky Sall, President of the 
Republic of Senegal
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Senegal.
Mr. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Macky Sall, 
President of the Republic of Senegal, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Sall (spoke in French): The Senegalese 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its previous session and to wish 
the  current  President  every  success  in  guiding  the 
work of our session. I would also like to reiterate our 
congratulations  and  support 
to  Secretary-General 
António Guterres for the success of his mission at the 
head of the Organization.
The theme of the seventy-second session commits 
us  to  focusing  on  people  for  peace  and  a  decent  life 
for all on a sustainable planet. Unfortunately, in these 
times of turbulence and uncertainty, the ideal of a better 
17-29407
7/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
world for all comes up against the crises of a world of 
conflict that is also in conflict with itself.
of Five for the Sahel and its partner States in the fight 
against terrorism.
On the security and humanitarian fronts, millions 
of  individuals  continue  to  suffer  every  day  from  the 
ravages of war, terrorism and violence in all their forms. 
With regard to food crises, according to the Food and 
Agriculture Organization, more than 1 billion tons of 
food are wasted each year, while more than 795 million 
people go hungry every day.
Where 
the  environment 
is  concerned,  global 
warming  has  reached  an  unprecedented  level,  while 
agreed-on  commitments  to  addressing  the  related 
crises, 
including  adequate  Green  Climate  Fund 
financing, have been slow to materialize.
With regard to our ethical and moral crises, we see 
the universal mission of democracy and human rights 
proclaimed  at  the  same  time  that  it  turns  in  on  itself 
and  lets  extremist,  racist  and  xenophobic  tendencies 
re-emerge. These dangerous excesses, born out of the 
absurd  claim  that  one  race,  civilization  or  culture  is 
superior to others, have inspired the worst tragedies of 
history, including slavery, colonization, the Holocaust 
and apartheid.
If  we  yield  to  these  abuses,  we  renounce  the 
founding values of the United Nations. We forget that 
the true challenges of our time lie elsewhere, such as 
in the fight against the threat of terrorism. Senegal, I 
emphasize,  vigorously  condemns  terrorism  wherever 
it may strike. Nothing, and certainly not religion, can 
justify violent fanaticism. At the same time, we cannot 
accept the equation of Islam with violence. We cannot 
accept that Muslims are held accountable for violence 
of which they themselves are victims.
We  are  all  concerned  about  the  terrorist  threat. 
We  therefore  have  a  responsibility  to  work  together 
to  find  agreed  solutions  to  this  scourge.  That  is  the 
purpose  of  the  Dakar  International  Forum  on  Peace 
and Security in Africa, whose fourth meeting will be 
held on 13 and 14 November. Among other topics, the 
Forum  will  focus  on  the  doctrinal  response  of  Islam 
vis-à-vis violent extremism. We wish to see an Africa 
of peace and security, a place that does not serve as a 
haven for terrorist groups that are fought and defeated 
elsewhere.  That  is  why  Senegal  remains  engaged  in 
seven  peacekeeping  operations,  including  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Integrated  Stabilization 
Mission in Mali, and welcomes the efforts of the Group 
I would like to reiterate our support for the national 
peace  and  reconciliation  process  under  way  in  our 
sister Republic of Mali, a process that is taking place 
with respect for the country’s territorial integrity and 
in  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  2374 
(2017).
In the Middle East, Senegal reiterates the right of 
the Palestinian people to a viable State, living side by 
side in peace with the State of Israel, each within secure 
and internationally recognized borders.
In  Burma,  we  are  seriously  concerned  about 
the  abuses  of  the  Muslim  Rohingya  population.  We 
therefore cannot allow outrage to be a selective emotion, 
and Senegal urges the international community to take 
action to put an end to this genuine human tragedy.
In  a  world  of  interaction  and  interdependence, 
peace today, more so than in the past, is not merely the 
absence of war. It is also the preservation of the planet’s 
resources,  the  scarcity  of  which  increases  the  risk  of 
internal crises and of international conflicts. It is vital 
to  safeguard  the  integrity  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change. The future of the planet is at stake.
Peace  also  requires  fairer  international  trade  that 
paves the way for progress and prosperity for all. The 
world  cannot  be  at  peace  with  itself  as  long  as  there 
endures  a  system  of  unequal  exchanges  in  which  the 
haves  continue  to  earn  more  and  the  have-nots  to 
have even less. We must work for mutually beneficial 
exchanges  that  protect  investment,  pay  fairly  for  raw 
materials and generate shared prosperity. That is the best 
way to overcome poverty, to support Africa’s efforts to 
emerge and to curb illegal migratory movements.
As  the  current  Chair  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development,  I  welcome  the  Compact 
with  Africa  initiative,  launched  by  Germany  within 
the  framework  of  the  Group  of  20,  to  stimulate 
investment  on  the  African  continent.  As  part  of  this 
new  momentum  of  support  for  development  through 
partnership,  Senegal  looks  forward  to  hosting  three 
major events on the international community’s agenda. 
They  are  the  third  Africa  Investment  Forum,  from 
25 to 27 September, in cooperation with China and the 
World  Bank;  the  International  Conference  on  Quality 
Infrastructure  in  January  2018,  at  the  initiative  of 
Japan;  and,  on  8  February  2018,  the  replenishment 
8/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
conference  for  the  Global  Partnership  for  Education 
Fund,  amounting  to  $3.1  billion  over  three  years.  By 
mobilizing  these  resources,  we  will  give  millions  of 
children  the  opportunity  to  go  to  school  and  achieve 
their  dreams  of  a  fulfilled  life.  I  thank  France  for 
sponsoring the conference, together with Senegal, and 
we invite all partner and beneficiary States to attend.
The President took the Chair.
The  positive  changes  we  seek  to  promote  in  the 
world’s  affairs  will  succeed  only  in  the  context  of  an 
inclusive and equitable momentum that reconciles all of 
our interests. To that end, the time has come to afford 
Africa the place it deserves on the Security Council, as 
called for in the Ezulwini Consensus. It is time to reform 
the rules of global economic and financial governance, 
including  by  combating  tax  evasion  more  effectively 
to  help  mobilize  domestic  resources  for  development 
financing. It is time to stop seeing Africa as a continent of 
the future, content with random and uncertain promises 
that  others  design,  write  and  interpret  on  its  behalf. 
Africa wishes to be a stakeholder in a present that takes 
its interests and its need to emerge into account through 
renewed and mutually beneficial partnerships. It is in 
that spirit that Senegal will continue to work with all 
friendly countries and partners after its mandate on the 
Security Council ends, in a few months’ time.
Despite  the  uncertainties  and  difficulties  of  our 
times, we must continue to have faith in multilateralism. 
Preceding  generations  had  the  wisdom  to  understand 
that isolationism and belligerency are a dead end. Out 
of the ruins of war, they built the foundations of peace; 
but  it  is  a  peace  that  is  always  a  work  in  progress. 
Whenever  its  foundations  falter,  all  humankind  is 
threatened. The wisdom of our predecessors demands 
that we work together to safeguard peace, in the name 
of our shared humanity, which brings us together and 
assigns us a shared destiny.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Senegal 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom of Swaziland
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Swaziland.
King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Swaziland, was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of the Kingdom 
of Swaziland, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
King Mswati III: Allow me to express our sincere 
congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second  session.  We  commend  you  for  immediately 
identifying  six  overarching  priorities  for  your  tenure, 
which  touch  on  attaining  peace,  giving  impetus  to 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  climate  change 
commitments,  equality  and  human  rights  for  all, 
among others. These priorities truly capture several of 
the current troublesome global challenges and we look 
forward to working closely with you on these issues.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  would  also  like  to 
commend the leadership of the new Secretary-General, 
who is committed to transforming the United Nations 
into  an  Organization  fit  for  the  twenty-first  century. 
Reform of the United Nations and its attendant bodies 
has been under discussion for a long time. My delegation 
believes  that  fresh  impetus  must  be  given  to  this 
process and tangible progress made. We are therefore 
encouraged  by  the  Secretary-General’s  intention  to 
refocus our attention on the reform agenda.
Reform of the Security Council is a key aspect of 
the process, and no transformation could be complete 
without  its  fundamental  change.  To  that  end,  the 
Kingdom  of  eSwatini  wishes  to  reiterate  Africa’s 
call  for  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council,  in 
accordance with the Ezulwini Consensus. The United 
Nations is urged to listen to the voice of the millions of 
Africans who want to contribute to the welfare of the 
global community as equal partners.
We  are  confident  that  under  the  able  leadership 
of  the  Secretary-General,  the  United  Nations  will 
reach  greater  heights  in  its  support  for  countries  in 
implementing the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change.  The  United  Nations  staff  are 
also  to  be  congratulated  on  their  remarkable  work  in 
17-29407
9/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
supporting  inclusive  and  sustainable  development, 
tackling  diseases,  promoting  peace  and  stability  and 
creating  a  conducive  environment  for  humankind  to 
live in, sometimes under extremely inimical conditions.
The  theme  of  this  session  —  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a  sustainable  planet”  —  resonates  perfectly  with  the 
motto  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
of leaving no one behind. The theme is indeed cross-
cutting  in  nature,  as  it  affects  every  aspect  of  life.  It 
calls on all of us to work to create peaceful countries, 
continents and a sustainable world in which people can 
lead peaceful and prosperous lives. In that regard, we 
wish to urge Member States to join hands in addressing 
the  issue  of  nuclear  threats,  which  have  the  potential 
to  disrupt  world  peace.  No  country  has  the  right  to 
make the world an unsafe place to live in, and we owe 
it to our people and future generations to put a stop to 
nuclear threats.
Terrorism  remains  a  threat  to  the  safety  of  our 
peoples  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  It  is  a  setback 
to  key  development  issues  that  deserve  the  priority 
attention of the United Nations.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  is  committed  to  peace 
and a decent life for all. We are also firm believers in 
the principle of consultative decision-making, which is 
a transparent and all-inclusive undertaking and grants 
all  citizens  an  opportunity  to  voice  their  views  so  as 
to  constructively  contribute  to  our  country’s  social, 
economic, cultural and political development.
We  are  committed  to  the  SDGs,  as  they  provide 
a  development  framework  within  which  the  global 
community  is  able  to  strive  for  the  inclusive  and 
sustainable  development  of  its  respective  countries. 
We  have  taken  several  initiatives  to  mainstream  and 
localize the SDGs through public-awareness campaigns, 
consultations, education and training at all levels. The 
Kingdom  of  eSwatini  has  also  integrated  the  Goals 
into its national development strategy, which has been 
revised to ensure that it is linked to the SDGs and the 
African Union’s Agenda 2063. Appropriate institutional 
arrangements are now in place for properly monitoring 
the implementation of the Goals at all levels.
Sustainable Development Goal 13 calls for urgent 
action to combat climate change and its impacts. That 
urgency  is  now  a  global  reality,  and  recent  weather 
episodes around the world, such as hurricanes, floods 
and mudslides, have shown that no nation is immune to 
its effects. The Kingdom of eSwatini is no exception. 
In  2015  and  2016,  the  southern  African  countries, 
including  our  Kingdom,  faced  a  severe  drought.  Its 
devastating effects, aggravated by the fall armyworm, 
adversely  affected  crop  production.  Funds  from  other 
projects  and  activities  were  diverted  to  mitigate  the 
challenges. The scale of the drought led the Southern 
African  Development  Community  (SADC)  region  to 
declare it a natural disaster. We are grateful to the United 
Nations,  our  development  partners,  the  international 
community, non-governmental organizations and other 
local organizations for supporting us during that period.
The  Government  will  continue  its  programme  of 
farming input subsidies for our farmers, and developing 
adequate  water-harvesting  infrastructure  to  enhance 
food  sufficiency  will  always  remain  one  of  our  top 
priorities.  We  urge  donors  and  all  nations  not  only 
to  fulfil  their  pledges  to  the  Green  Fund  but  also  to 
adopt policies that strike a correct balance between the 
production of essential products and the environmental 
sustainability we need to protect and preserve the world 
for future generations.
The net enrolment ratio in primary schools in the 
Kingdom  increased  significantly  from  79.2  per  cent 
in 2000 to 97.7 per cent in 2015, in a reflection of my 
country’s efforts to ensure that all children have access 
to  education,  irrespective  of  their  socioeconomic 
status.  The  Government  is  also  providing  for  our 
children’s needs by placing greater focus on assisting 
those who are orphaned and vulnerable through various 
programmes that ensure that they too can access free 
primary-school education and have adequate nutrition 
through school feeding schemes.
In our quest to achieve a decent life for all, and in 
line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and  Africa’s  Agenda  2063,  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini 
has  put  in  place  several  all-inclusive  initiatives  that 
are  aimed  at  ensuring  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  The 
Government also provides grants to the elderly as a way 
of supplementing their livelihoods.
The Kingdom is also developing innovation parks 
that  will  equip  our  young  people  with  creative  skills 
that  can  enable  them  to  contribute  to  the  country’s 
sustainable  development.  We  would  like  to  forge 
partnerships  with  well-established  international  parks 
to  leverage  and  learn  from  their  experience,  and  we 
have urged our private sector to take advantage of that 
initiative.  We  believe  that  together  with  many  others, 
10/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
this initiative will help to nurture a future generation 
that is skilled and well equipped to provide solutions to 
the socioeconomic challenges and youth unemployment 
that our nation is facing.
between 2011 and 2016, a major achievement. While we 
are encouraged by these results, we will continue to do 
everything in our ability to ensure that there are no new 
infections.
The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  will  host  the  SADC 
University  of  Innovation  and  Technology,  which  is 
expected  to  produce  highly  skilled  manpower  and 
provide solutions for transforming economies, thereby 
enabling  countries  in  the  SADC  region  to  close  their 
skills  gap.  We  are  seeking  the  support  of  highly 
educated facilitators and the international community 
to make that project a reality.
Tackling  poverty,  hunger  and  the  disease  burden 
and  improving  our  people’s  basic  standards  of  living 
have been at the centre of our Vision 2022 and national 
development strategy. The importance of human capital 
investment  and  promoting  the  interests  of  vulnerable 
groups  represent  crucial  steps 
towards  economic 
growth and prosperity.
I  have  full  confidence  in  our  innovative  and 
educated  workforce,  which  has  demonstrated  an 
indomitable  spirit  and  resilience  in  overcoming  the 
severe social, economic and environmental challenges 
of recent times. As a result, our national guiding theme 
for 2017 is “Rising above adversity to create prosperity 
for  all”.  The  critical  importance  of  the  demographic 
dividend 
transformative  development 
has  been  acknowledged  by  African  leaders.  They 
have  recognized  the  urgent  need  to  accelerate  the 
implementation  of  the  African  Union  Roadmap  on 
Harnessing 
through 
Investments in Youth.
the  Demographic  Dividend 
to  Africa’s 
The  HIV  and  AIDS  pandemic  remains  one  of 
our  priority  areas,  as  it  continues  to  undermine  our 
sustainable development objectives. It is stretching our 
health  resources  to  the  limit  and  calls  for  collective 
action  on  the  part  of  the  Government,  international 
donors and other stakeholders to address it. As a nation, 
we have decided to work to reach AIDS-free status by 
2022,  a  vision  in  line  with  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 3, ending AIDS by 2030.
We are pleased to be able to inform the Assembly 
of  the  positive  results  we  have  attained  through  our 
concerted policies in tackling this scourge. Key findings 
from Swaziland’s second HIV incidence measurement 
survey show that we have achieved a more than 70 per 
cent  viral  load  suppression  among  adults  living  with 
HIV.  We  also  reduced  HIV  incidence  by  nearly  half 
We are also pleased to mention that our efforts to 
tackle  malaria  eradication  are  being  recognized.  We 
were honoured that during the African Union Summit 
in Addis Ababa in January, Africa’s Heads of State and 
Government elected us Chair of the African Leaders’ 
Malaria Alliance. Tomorrow we will hold a side event 
on  malaria  here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters. 
Malaria is a scourge that requires our concerted efforts 
to  eradicate  from  the  face  of  the  Earth.  We  aim  to 
partner  with  our  private  sector  in  Africa  and  beyond 
to  mobilize  resources  to  combat  it.  We  appreciate 
our  partners’  support  and  also  appeal  to  financial 
institutions,  development  partners  and  donors  to  join 
us in this fight, since it will pay handsome dividends 
for the people of our beloved African continent.
Among  the  political  issues  that  have  continued 
unresolved  for  too  long  is  the  denial  of  the  right  of 
the  people  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to 
participate  in  the  United  Nations  system.  Taiwan  has 
shown  significant  commitment  to  the  ideals  of  the 
United Nations and has aligned its priorities with those 
of the Organization. Humankind could therefore benefit 
a great deal from Taiwan’s experience in the framework 
of our global agenda as Member of the United Nations.
I reaffirm the full commitment of the Government 
of the Kingdom of eSwatini to implementing the Goals 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development. 
However, it is worth noting that while our Goals may 
be universal, we do not all have the same capabilities 
and capacities for implementing them. As we recognize 
those  resource  and  capacity  constraints,  therefore, 
we  need  to  enhance  resources,  capacity-building, 
technology  transfer  and  South-South  cooperation  so 
as  to  support  lower  middle-income  countries,  along 
with  the  least  developed  countries,  in  achieving  our 
ambitious and transformative Agenda.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Swaziland for the statement he has just made.
King  Mswati  III,  Head  of  State  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
17-29407
11/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
Address by His Excellency Mr. Faiez Mustafa 
Serraj, President of the Presidency Council of the 
Government of National Accord of Libya
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Presidency Council of 
the Government of National Accord of Libya.
the 
Mr.  Faiez  Mustafa  Serraj,  President  of 
Presidency Council of the Government of National 
Accord  of  Libya,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Faiez  Mustafa  Serraj,  President 
of  the  Presidency  Council  of  the  Government  of 
National Accord of Libya, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Serraj (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I 
would like to congratulate you, Mr. President, on your 
election  to  lead  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second  session,  and  to  wish  you  every  success  in 
your  work.  I  commend  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, for all his efforts and wish him every success 
in his future endeavours. I would also like to note the 
ongoing wise efforts of Secretary-General Guterres to 
implement the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations in the areas of peace, security and 
human rights.
The members of the General Assembly are aware of 
the challenges that my people are facing in these very 
trying times, starting with the revolution of February 
2011  and  its  consequences,  which  have  been  a  war 
and  the  negative  involvement  of  a  number  of  States. 
We  have  striven  to  mitigate  and  reduce  our  people’s 
suffering and to achieve real success. However, a great 
many problems remain and will not be resolved without 
the  joint  efforts  of  my  country  and  of  friendly  States 
and the United Nations to enable us to establish the rule 
of law and democracy in Libya.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  efforts  of  all  those 
who  have  worked  to  find  a  political  settlement  to  the 
crisis and to thank a number of States and regional and 
international  organizations  —  including  the  League 
of  Arab  States,  the  African  Union,  the  Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation and the United Nations — for 
helping  us  to  restore  stability  in  my  country.  I  would 
also like to take this opportunity to welcome the new 
Special Envoy, Mr. Ghassan Salamé, and to wish him 
every possible success in proposing rapid solutions to 
the current crisis.
The Libyan Political Agreement reached following 
two years of negotiations remains the cornerstone for 
our  efforts  to  address  various  problems  and  build  the 
institutions of State. We are undergoing a transition that 
will ensure that we can coexist, leave the past behind us 
and stabilize our country, and the Presidency Council 
of the Government of National Accord is the fruit of all 
this work. It is essential to implementing and carrying 
out national reconciliation with the participation of all, 
without exception.
Since  the  outset  we  have  been  determined  to 
confront our crises, despite the difficulties they pose, 
with wisdom, patience and foresight, and we have been 
able to resolve a number of problems. We have put an end 
to the violence in Tripoli and other Libyan cities, where 
law enforcement and security agencies have started to 
discharge  their  mission.  A  number  of  embassies  have 
returned, as will the United Nations Support Mission in 
Libya in the near future. Certain displaced individuals 
have returned to their home cities, although that has not 
been possible for others, owing to the lack of services, 
undermined  by  the  military  clashes.  We  continue  to 
work  to  restore  peace  and  security  and  rid  ourselves 
of those trying to spoil things.
In  the  economic  field,  we  are  now  producing 
1  million  barrels  of  oil  a  day,  up  from  150,000  in 
March 2016. We must also mitigate the suffering that 
many have been experiencing during this development 
period, and we hope that with the restoration of security, 
the provision of the necessary financial resources and 
the resumption of activity by foreign firms we will be 
able  to  rebuild  our  State.  We  have  demanded  that  the 
embargo on frozen assets be lifted, because it is costing 
the  Libyan  State  close  to  $1  billion  a  year,  and  we 
sincerely  hope  that  this  will  happen,  especially  since 
current circumstances are improving.
In  the  area  of  national  reconciliation,  we  have 
held  a  number  of  meetings  aimed  at  achieving  unity 
and  resolving  our  differences  and  divisions.  The 
decision-making  monopoly  of  the  Presidency  of  the 
Council of Deputies has resulted in political stagnation, 
preventing the majority from implementing the Political 
Agreement.  In  July,  we  came  up  with  a  road  map  for 
extricating  ourselves  from  this  crisis,  providing  for 
a  referendum  and  presidential  and  parliamentary 
elections next year and the establishment of a supreme 
12/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
national council for reconciliation, mandated to address 
such  issues  as  compensation,  amnesty  and  others 
during  the  transition  period.  This  positive  vision  was 
reaffirmed at the Paris meeting, where a consensus was 
reached  on  our  progress  towards  democracy  and  the 
peaceful settlement of our problems through elections 
rather than armed confrontation — needless to say with 
the exception of the war against terrorism, which must 
continue — and through the restoration of ourmilitary 
and executive institutions.
With regard to the fight against terrorism, we were 
successful in our attempt to liberate the cities of Sirte 
and  Benghazi,  among  others,  from  Da’esh.  However, 
we  continue  to  have  problems  in  dealing  with  the 
consequences of their seizure by terrorist organizations. 
We pay tribute to the memory of the martyrs who have 
laid  down  their  lives  to  liberate  the  cities  of  Libya, 
and reiterate the need for a strategic partnership with 
all  friendly  States,  especially  the  United  States  of 
America, which we thank for its support in halting the 
acts of these terrorist organizations.
We  must  all  understand  that  the  fight  against 
terrorism is not over. There are new hotbeds of tension 
and terrorism. Terrorists who have fled Iraq and Syria 
have now come to our country. We ask to be allowed 
to  rebuild  our  army  so  that  it  can  confront  them  and 
protect our country.
My  country  is  experiencing  other  difficulties, 
including illegal migration. A number of migrants have 
entered Libyan territory and used it as a transit country 
on  their  way  to  Europe  across  the  Mediterranean. 
Libya  suffers  from  this  problem  just  as  other  States 
do. It is a burden on our already very limited resources 
and  has  a  number  of  adverse  security  and  economic 
consequences.  We  also  lack  the  necessary  resources 
to tackle the armed smuggling networks plaguing our 
country.  We  thank  all  who  have  helped  us  to  address 
with this problem, especially Italy, which has recently 
provided  training  assistance  in  a  number  of  cities. 
We  welcome  the  support  provided  by  France,  Italy 
and  Germany,  especially  in  monitoring  our  southern 
borders, where most illegal migrants cross. We do not 
possess the capacity to tackle this problem alone.
related 
to 
issue 
Another 
the  migrants  and 
refugees in Libya is how to pay for the aid they need. 
The  Government  of  National  Accord  is  working  to 
assist  them  as  much  as  possible,  and  we  welcome  the 
help  we  have  had  from  humanitarian  organizations, 
especially  in  the  form  of  shelters.  We  would  like  to 
return these refugees to their homes rather than grant 
them  citizenship  in  our  country.  Libya  participated 
with European States in the Paris summit at which an 
agreement emerged aimed at finding political solutions 
to  restoring  stability  throughout  Libya.  It  was  also 
agreed that we need to be provided with the assistance 
necessary  to  fund  development  programmes  in  the 
migrants’ countries of origin.
My  country  views  human  rights  as  extremely 
important. Since the 2011 revolution we have adopted a 
number of laws promoting human rights, but as this is a 
transitional period we are still working to restore State 
authority throughout the country, and that has naturally 
had an impact on the security situation. The Presidency 
Council is applying the no-impunity principle in order 
to  gradually  enable  the  law-enforcement  agencies  to 
take  up  their  necessary  functions.  We  would  like  to 
benefit  from  United  Nations  technical  expertise  in 
the field of human rights, and we have therefore been 
inviting  human  rights  special  programmes  to  visit 
Libya  since  2012,  as  was  reiterated  during  the  thirty-
fourth session of the Human Rights Council in March.
One  of  the  crucial  current  issues  for  the  United 
Nations is Security Council reform. In that regard, we 
welcomed  the  Council’s  adoption  of  resolution  2378 
(2017) a couple of days ago. We hope that reform will 
help us in developing the role of our Organization by, 
for instance, granting a permanent seat on the Security 
Council to the African continent, in keeping with the 
Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration  on  the 
reform of the United Nations.
The situation in the Middle East remains an absolute 
priority. Despite the crises that we are experiencing, we 
have spared no effort to support the Palestinian people 
in their attempts to establish an independent State with 
East Jerusalem as its capital. We reiterate our support 
for  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  to  settle  the  Palestinian 
issue, and we urge the world’s major Powers to assume 
their  responsibilities  in  that  regard.  We  wish  to  see  a 
peaceful solution to the crises in Syria and Yemen in 
order  to  protect  them  from  division  and  collapse  as  a 
result of the destructive conflicts raging through their 
countries and to fulfil the aspirations of their peoples 
in a dignified way that respects human rights and the 
rule of law.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
holding  a  special  meeting  on  Libya  this  morning  that 
17-29407
13/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
attracted  a  great  deal  of  international  interest  and  at 
which everyone present reaffirmed that the backdrop to 
any solution must be a political one. Assistance will be 
needed for the presidential and parliamentary elections 
next year. We ask the Secretary-General and the Special 
Representative  for  Libya,  Mr.  Ghassan  Salamé,  to 
present us with a timeline and send a clear message to all 
who attempt to hinder the process that there can be no 
military solution and that negotiations with authorities 
parallel  to  the  Government  of  National  Accord  must 
stop,  as  they  are  in  violation  of  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions. I would like to reiterate our desire 
for  all  sectors  of  the  Libyan  population  to  be  able  to 
exercise their rights to national self-determination and 
live in a State that enjoys the rule of law.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Presidency Council 
of the Government of National Accord of Libya for the 
statement that he has just made.
Mr.  Faiez  Mustafa  Serraj,  President  of 
the 
Presidency Council of the Government of National 
Accord  of  Libya,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Baron Divavesi Waqa, President of 
the Republic of Nauru
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Nauru.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President 
of the Republic of Nauru, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
President Waqa: It is an honour to be here for the 
opening  of  the  seventy-second  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. On behalf of the Republic of Nauru, I would 
like to congratulate you, Sir, on your recent assumption 
of  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  Please  be 
assured of my delegation’s full support and cooperation 
as you steer its work during this critical session. I would 
also  like  to  thank  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, for his exceptional work.
At this juncture, I would like to take this opportunity 
to express our deepest sorrow and condolences to our 
brothers  and  sisters  who  have  suffered  so  much  from 
the series of hurricanes in the Caribbean and the United 
States and to our brothers and sisters in Mexico for the 
devastating  earthquakes.  Their  suffering  and  grief  is 
shared  by  us  all,  and  we  pray  that  God  will  be  their  
strength and great provider during their recovery efforts.
The Government of Nauru shares the international 
community’s  view  that  full  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) must be at the 
centre of our work in the coming year. The 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development is a universal agreement 
representing our collective priorities, from the largest 
to  the  smallest  nations  among  us.  Bringing  that  same 
approach to our implementation effort is the only way 
to ensure that no country is left behind.
Members will recall the five words that guided our 
work on the SDGs — people, planet, prosperity, peace 
and partnership — which, I am sure, gave inspiration 
to the President’s choice of a theme for this new session 
of the General Assembly. Those five words are broad 
enough to encompass our collectively held ideals while 
accommodating our tremendous diversity. In the case 
of Nauru, our status as a small island developing State 
underlies every aspect of the lives of my people.
The global economic system was not created with 
small  islands  in  mind.  Small  size  and  population, 
geographic isolation, few natural resources and a high 
level  of  vulnerability  to  economic  and  environmental 
shocks  are  among  the  characteristics  that  make  small 
islands  a  special  case  for  development.  Our  people 
crave  prosperity  just  like  anyone  else.  However,  the 
well  trodden  pathways  to  development  are  simply  not 
available to us.
More than most, our prospects depend on a stable 
planet,  including  a  safe  climate  and  healthy  oceans. 
That  is  why  Nauru  was  among  the  first  countries  in 
the  world  to  ratify  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change,  and  why  we  have  made  the  implementation 
of our national contribution to the Agreement our top 
priority.  Nearly  every  country  has  made  that  solemn 
commitment,  and  we  are  now  two  years  closer  to  the 
time when we will be held to account.
With  regard  to  climate  action  in  developing 
countries, implementation is a collective responsibility. 
As  developing  countries,  we  have  demonstrated  our 
political will to be part of the global effort, but most of us 
lack the resources to fully implement our contributions 
alone.  In  that  regard,  we  call  on  our  development 
14/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
partners  to  step  up  their  assistance  programmes. 
Nauru’s  climate  priorities  fall  into  four  categories  —
renewable  energy,  land  rehabilitation,  water  security 
and 
to 
build  genuine  and  durable  partnerships  to  achieve 
those objectives.
infrastructure-proofing.  We  are 
looking 
While the Paris Agreement was a historic diplomatic 
achievement, we must remember that we remain well off 
track for achieving its central goal of keeping warming 
below  1.5°C.  Failure  to  achieve  that  goal  would  be 
devastating for small islands, but we should not pretend 
that any additional warming is safe. Negative impacts 
in the form of superstorms, irregular rain patterns and 
heatwaves  are  here  with  us  now  and  will  continue  to 
get  worse  for  the  foreseeable  future.  As  I  said  at  last 
year’s World Humanitarian Summit, all of us must face 
up to some very difficult questions. How will we feed a 
planet of 9 billion people when crop yields are projected 
to  fall?  How  will  we  share  declining  freshwater 
resources  as  glaciers  disappear  and  drought  becomes 
commonplace  in  many  regions?  How  will  we  protect 
the millions who are rendered homeless when low-lying 
coastal areas are inundated? How can those and many 
other challenges be managed effectively so that we can 
avoid breakdowns in governance and a proliferation of 
failed States?
It is difficult to see how we can realize our vision 
for a peaceful planet without answers to those questions. 
Climate change will be the defining security challenge 
of the century, and we are simply not prepared for life 
on  a  hotter  planet.  For  that  reason,  Nauru  supports 
the  proposal  by  the  Pacific  small  island  developing 
States (SIDS) that the United Nations appoint a Special 
Representative  on  climate  and  security,  whose  work 
must begin with an assessment of the United Nation’s 
capacity to respond to climate disasters.
In addition to a safe climate, the prosperity of Nauru’s 
people depends on a healthy ocean. In that regard, we 
must show ambition in tackling the mounting threats to 
the health of our oceans. The special case of SIDS needs 
to be enshrined in our work across all ocean sectors and 
in  the  new  implementing  agreements  on  biodiversity 
beyond national jurisdiction under the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  Launching  and 
concluding an intergovernmental conference to draft a 
new implementing agreement in line with the common 
heritage of mankind that would allow for the protection 
and  preservation  of  the  oceans  should  be  an  urgent 
priority  in  that  work.  The  security  of  our  oceans  is 
another problem that all of us must tackle.
Illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  is 
another great threat and represents an economic loss to 
our small economy. Along with transnational crimes that 
occur within our waters and those of our neighbours, it is 
an issue that requires cooperation on a number of fronts 
through  inter-agency  and  intercountry  partnerships. 
I  call  on  our  friends  and  partners  to  continue  with 
existing programmes, such as the Shiprider Agreement 
and  other  ongoing  bilateral  cooperation  arrangements 
negotiated by the United States, as well as the maritime 
surveillance  programmes  provided  by  Australia  and 
New Zealand. We look forward to partnering with other 
law-enforcement agencies throughout the Asia-Pacific 
and beyond.
like  mine  have  been  excluded 
In  order  for  the  people  of  Nauru  to  benefit  from 
those global efforts to protect the climate and ocean, we 
will have to build genuine and durable partnerships that 
are based on mutual respect and a clear understanding 
of  the  real  needs  on  the  ground.  Too  often,  small 
countries 
from 
international programmes. Funding mechanisms can be 
effectively impossible to access because the application 
and reporting requirements exceed the capacity of our 
domestic institutions. Private investment is unreliable 
and  rarely  available  to  support  the  provision  of  basic 
services and the construction of critical infrastructure. 
Meanwhile,  the  most  promising  financing  models 
for  small  developing  countries,  such  as  direct  access 
and  direct  budgetary  support,  are  rarely  offered  by 
our  development  partners.  That  must  change.  We 
need  our  partners  to  meet  the  needs  of  small  and 
vulnerable countries.
is  why  my  country  has  emphasized 
We know that we too must become better partners, 
which 
the 
importance of capacity-building as a critical component 
of our international cooperation. In order for our people 
to prosper, we must invest in building their knowledge 
and  skills.  There  is  no  shortage  of  workshops  held  in 
the  Pacific  region.  What  Nauru  needs  is  a  sustained 
capacity-building effort that is backed by real resources, 
including  the  long-term,  in-country  presence  of  our 
development partners when appropriate, so that we are 
left with strong domestic institutions run by a skilled 
domestic workforce.
I cannot stress the importance of a robust capacity-
building programme enough. As a former schoolteacher, 
17-29407
15/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
I  am  passionate  about  the  importance  of  high-quality 
education  for  my  people.  We  have  our  own  training 
programmes for our high school and tertiary students, as 
well as programmes for those already in the workforce. 
We  acknowledge  the  generous  support  of  our  friends 
and  partners,  who  have  provided  scholarships  and 
technical  workshops  that  are  invaluable  to  our  long-
term  development,  particularly  in  high-priority  areas 
such as the health sector, education, engineering, public 
administration and good governance.
Having a healthy economy and a productive people 
also  requires  international  relations  to  be  peaceful 
and  stable,  not  only  in  the  Pacific  but  throughout  the 
world.  With  regard  to  the  Pacific  region,  Nauru  calls 
on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to enter 
into dialogue with the other countries involved in the 
dispute  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  threats  made 
against the Republic of Korea, Japan, Guam and cities 
of the United States do not help the situation, and they 
potentially  put  many  small  countries  in  the  Pacific, 
including Nauru, in the line of fire. That is completely 
unacceptable, and the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea must stop such threats, including the launching 
of rockets into the Pacific Ocean.
including 
Further  to  the  south,  we  have  in  Taiwan  a  State 
that  is  peaceful,  prosperous  and  happy.  Taiwan  has 
the  technical  and  financial  capacity  to  contribute  to 
world  peace  and  development,  particularly  where  its 
technical  prowess  and  know-how  are  concerned.  It 
wishes  to  contribute  and  participate  freely  through 
the  partnerships  and  activities  of  the  United  Nations 
system, 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  the  World  Health  Organization,  UNESCO,  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change and other United Nations-related agencies and 
activities. In order to ensure that the Taiwanese people 
can  make  positive  contributions  to  societies  around 
the  world,  they  must  be  given  the  freedom  to  travel 
where they choose. We are, after all, a world that calls 
for  inclusiveness  and  for  no  one  to  be  left  behind.  In 
that same spirit, Nauru renews its call for an end to the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
by the United States on Cuba.
The  phrase  “people,  planet,  prosperity,  peace, 
and  partnership”  elegantly  captures  the  scope  of  our 
work  over  the  coming  year  and  beyond.  However, 
there is another word that begins with P that we must 
not ignore. That word is power. Power will determine 
whether  resources  are  mobilized  for  people  or  for 
profiteering. Power will determine whether the voices 
of  the  marginalized  are  heard.  Power  will  determine 
whether  we  leave  a  healthy  and  bountiful  planet  for 
future  generations.  To  ignore  the  role  of  power  in 
shaping our future is to cede what little power we may 
have.  If  we  are  to  achieve  our  ambitious  goals  for  a 
peaceful,  prosperous  and  sustainable  planet,  we  will 
have to grapple with power as it actually exists in the 
world,  including  all  of  its  inequities  and  perversities. 
That  will  undoubtedly  be  the  most  difficult  aspect  of 
the task before us.
In closing, I would like to thank the Governments 
of  Australia,  Taiwan,  New  Zealand,  Japan,  India,  the 
Russian Federation, the European Union, Italy, Israel, 
Cuba, the Republic of Korea and the United States for 
their  continued  support  and  assistance  to  Nauru.  We 
value their friendship very much, and we look forward 
to their continued cooperation and support.
Along those lines, I would like to make a special 
acknowledgement to the United Nations for the support 
it provided to Nauru nearly 50 years ago, leading to our 
independence.  On  31  January  2018,  we  will  celebrate 
our  golden  jubilee  as  a  sovereign  and  democratic 
nation. I would also like to thank all the countries that 
supported us in exercising our self-determination and 
achieving our independence.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Nauru 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Baron  Divavesi  Waqa,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Nauru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Henry Van Thio, Vice-President 
of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Union of Myanmar.
Mr.  Henry  Van  Thio,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Republic  of  the  Union  of  Myanmar,  was  escorted 
to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Henry  Van  Thio,  Vice-President 
16/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Van  Thio  (Myanmar):  I  would  like  to 
congratulate you, Sir, on your election as President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
We are confident that under your able leadership, this 
year’s session will be fruitful.
Before  I  go  into  the  substance  of  my  statement, 
I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  express  my 
deepest sympathy to the Government and the people of 
Mexico for the loss of life and property caused by the 
deadly earthquake that hit Mexico City.
I also wish to convey our profound sympathy to the 
Governments and the peoples of the United States and 
States  of  the  Caribbean,  which  have  experienced  the 
horrendous consequences of consecutive hurricanes in 
a short span of two weeks. Our sympathies also go to 
the people of Puerto Rico, who are still reeling from the 
effects of Hurricane Maria. The intensity and frequency 
of  such  natural  disasters  are  evidence  of  climate 
change,  now  becoming  a  reality  that  poses  a  serious 
threat to our planet. Its impacts are global in scope and 
unprecedented in scale. Myanmar is highly vulnerable 
to the negative effects of climate change, so as a country 
frequently affected by storms, floods and droughts we 
welcome  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change. 
I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  yesterday 
Myanmar  deposited  with  the  Secretary-General  its 
instruments of ratification of the Paris Agreement and 
the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol.
We welcome the current session’s theme, “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on 
a sustainable planet”. Peace and stability are something 
that we are striving to achieve in Myanmar after nearly 
seven decades of civil strife and conflict.
Last year, from this rostrum, our State Counsellor, 
Ms.  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi,  set  out  our  Government’s 
vision  for  ending  decades  of  internal  armed  conflict 
in  Myanmar  and  finding  lasting  and  meaningful 
solutions to the complex situation in Rakhine state (see 
A/71/PV.11). Today, one year later, I am here to apprise 
the Assembly of the progress that we have made and the 
remaining challenges that lie before us. Given that the 
situation in Rakhine state has understandably been the 
focus  of  the  world’s  attention  in  recent  weeks,  let  me 
start by addressing that issue.
Yesterday, 
the  State  Counsellor  briefed 
the 
diplomatic  corps  in  Myanmar  on  the  Government’s 
efforts  to  promote  national  reconciliation  and  peace. 
She highlighted the achievements of the past 18 months 
and  the  challenges  that  remain.  With  respect  to  the 
situation  in  Rakhine,  she  said  that  Myanmar  shares 
the concern of the international community regarding 
the  displacement  and  suffering  experienced  by  all 
communities  affected  by  the  latest  round  of  terrorist 
attacks. She also stressed that:
“We  condemn  all  human  rights  violations 
and  unlawful  violence.  We  are  committed  to  the 
restoration  of  peace,  stability  and  the  rule  of  law 
throughout  Rakhine  state.  The  security  forces 
have been instructed to adhere strictly to the code 
of conduct in carrying out security operations, to 
exercise all due restraint and to take full measures 
to  avoid  collateral  damage  and  the  harming  of 
innocent  civilians.  Human  rights  violations  and 
all  other  acts  that  impair  stability  and  harmony 
and  undermine  the  rule  of  law  will  be  addressed 
in accordance with strict norms of justice. We feel 
deeply  for  the  suffering  of  all  of  the  people  who 
have been caught up in the conflict.”
The  situation  in  Rakhine  has  been  one  of  the  top 
priorities  of  the  Government  since  it  assumed  office. 
The  Government  has  been  endeavouring  to  restore 
peace  and  stability  and  to  promote  harmony  among 
all  communities.  The  Central  Committee  on  the 
Implementation of Peace, Stability and Development of 
Rakhine State, chaired by the State Counsellor herself, 
was established on 30 May 2016 to address that state’s 
specific  needs.  Additionally,  in  August  2016,  she  set 
up an advisory commission, headed by former United 
Nations  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  to  advise  the 
Government  on  sustainable  solutions  to  the  complex 
situation there.
We  have  been  striving  to  ensure  that  Rakhine 
state is duly developed while ensuring peace, stability 
and societal cohesion. That is no easy task. The deep 
mistrust  that  has  developed  over  decades  has  to  be 
slowly  chiselled  away.  On  24  August,  the  Annan 
Advisory  Commission  released  its  final  report.  Our 
Government welcomed it immediately.
We had hoped that today would be an opportunity 
for  us  to  communicate  to  the  world  the  progress  that 
we  have  made  towards  implementing  the  Advisory 
Commission’s  recommendations.  It  is,  therefore,  with 
17-29407
17/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
deep  regret  that  I  must  instead  primarily  address  the 
Assembly  on  the  current  state  of  affairs  in  Rakhine 
state  following  the  recent  attacks  by  the  terrorist 
group known as the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army 
(ARSA) last month.
As  the  General  Assembly  is  aware,  within  hours 
of the release of the Advisory Commission’s report, a 
series of coordinated attacks were carried out against 
30  police  outposts  in  northern  Rakhine.  The  ARSA 
claimed  responsibility  for  the  attacks.  Those  attacks 
ignited  fresh  violence  in  the  region,  resulting  in 
significant  loss  of  life,  widespread  suffering  and  the 
mass  displacement  of  many  communities.  Many  have 
had  to  abandon  their  hearths  and  homes  —  not  just 
Muslim  and  Rakhine,  but  also  other  small  minority 
groups, such as Daing-net, Mro, Thet, Mramagyi and 
Hindus. Most of the world has been oblivious to their 
existence and plight.
Let  me  be  clear.  The  Government  of  Myanmar 
is  extremely  concerned  about  the  present  situation  in 
Rakhine state. Our deepest sympathy goes to the families 
of all innocent civilians and members of the police and 
security  forces  who  have  lost  their  lives.  There  is  no 
denying that this is a problem of significant magnitude.
I am happy to inform the Assembly that the situation 
has  improved.  No  armed  clashes  have  been  reported 
since  5  September.  Accordingly,  we  are  concerned 
about  reports  that  the  flow  of  Muslims  crossing  into 
Bangladesh remains unabated. We would need to find 
out the reason for that exodus. What is known is that the 
great majority of the Muslim population have decided 
to remain in their villages.
We share the need to ensure that vital humanitarian 
assistance is provided to all those in need. Moreover, we 
acknowledge that the duty to respond to the challenges 
in  Rakhine  state  is  first  and  foremost  the  duty  of 
our  national  Government.  The  situation  in  Rakhine 
is  complex.  The  challenges  we  face  are  significant. 
Accordingly,  we  have  adopted  an  integrated  national 
strategy to address the problem.
I am pleased to announce the launch of a committee 
chaired by the Union Minister of Social Welfare, Relief 
and Resettlement to implement the recommendations of 
the Advisory Commission. To ensure transparency and 
accountability, the committee is mandated to publicly 
issue a progress report every four months. In addition 
to  the  committee,  we  intend  to  establish  an  advisory 
board made up of eminent persons from both Myanmar 
and abroad.
At  present,  humanitarian  assistance  is  our  first 
priority.  We  are  committed  to  ensuring  that  aid  is 
received by all those in need, without discrimination. 
We  have  already  dedicated  significant  national  funds 
and  resources  to  humanitarian  relief  operations.  I 
am  also  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  a  new 
Government-led mechanism, established in cooperation 
with  the  Red  Cross  Movement,  has  also  started  its 
humanitarian assistance activities.
On behalf of the Government of Myanmar, I would 
like to express my gratitude to all those countries that 
have offered to contribute to that assistance programme. 
In  particular,  we  are  grateful  for  the  generous  offers 
of  support  that  we  have  received  recently  from  many 
of  our  friends  across  the  world.  At  the  same  time, 
we  are  working  hard  to  strengthen  relations  with 
Bangladesh. The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs 
and the National Security Advisor visited Bangladesh 
in January and July. We were hoping for a visit from the 
Home Affairs Minister of Bangladesh, but it had to be 
postponed, as the Minister could not come in August. 
We  will  welcome  him  whenever  he  is  able  to  come 
and  hope  to  take  forward  our  cooperation  on  border 
security matters.
There  has  been  a  call  for  the  repatriation  of  the 
displaced people who have recently fled from northern 
Rakhine  to  Bangladesh.  In  her  statement  yesterday, 
the State Counsellor said that Myanmar was prepared 
to  start  the  verification  process  at  any  time.  Our  two 
neighbours had experience with such a process in 1993, 
through  the  establishment  of  a  joint  working  group 
for implementing the repatriation process, and we can 
develop a process based on that experience.
Myanmar  stands  together  with  the  rest  of  the 
world  in  condemning  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations.  Terrorism  constitutes  one  of  the  most 
serious threats to international peace and security, and 
our position is clear. We cannot condone terrorism. At 
the  same  time,  the  Government  is  working  to  ensure 
that acts of terrorism will not distract us from pursuing 
the  long-term  strategy  that  is  necessary  in  order  to 
address the complex challenges in Rakhine state today. 
The recommendations of the Advisory Commission on 
Rakhine  state  provide  us  with  a  clear  road  map.  Our 
implementation  committee  began  its  work  last  week, 
18/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
and  we  will  be  inviting  observers  to  witness  some  of 
our programmes in due course.
The  recent  events  in  Rakhine  state  are  a  painful 
reminder  that  we  face  difficult  challenges  ahead  on 
the  long  journey  to  peace,  prosperity  and  democracy. 
However, I would like to reiterate that our commitment 
to peace remains as strong and as unwavering today as 
it was a year ago, when our State Counsellor, Aung San 
Suu  Kyi,  first  addressed  the  General  Assembly  from 
this rostrum. As part of that commitment, we have made 
the  national  reconciliation  and  peace  process  our  top 
priority. Our vision here is clear — we want to achieve 
a democratic, federal union, based on the principles of 
freedom, justice, equal rights and self-determination.
With  regard  to  the  peace  process  in  Myanmar,  I 
am pleased to inform you that in May we successfully 
held the second session of our Union Peace Conference. 
For the first time, we were able to discuss and define 
key  principles  that  will  form  the  basis  of  a  federal, 
democratic Union. The Union Accord, consisting of 37 
principles covering the political, economic, social and 
environmental  sectors,  was  signed  by  representatives 
of the Government, the Parliament, the military, ethnic 
armed organizations and political parties.
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Although we have made real progress, we know that 
the road ahead is long and convoluted. Our democratic 
transition is fragile. At this important juncture in our 
nation’s  history,  we  only  ask  that  the  international 
community continue to support our efforts to achieve 
peace, prosperity and democracy.
I would like to conclude by reaffirming Myanmar’s 
faith and confidence in the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations. I would also like to 
emphasize  our  firm  commitment  to  a  world  in  which 
peace and harmony prevails.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Henry Van Thio, Vice-President of the Republic 
of  the  Union  of  Myanmar,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al Sabah, Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait.
Sheikh  Jaber  Al-Mubarak  Al-Hamad  Al  Sabah, 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Highness  Sheikh 
Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad Al Sabah, Prime Minister 
of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Sheikh Al Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): On 
behalf of the Government and the President of the State 
of Kuwait, allow me at the outset to extend our sincere 
congratulations to the President and his friendly country, 
the Republic of Slovakia, on his election to preside over 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I 
would also like to assure him of my country’s support 
and of our desire to facilitate his work and fulfilment 
of his responsibilities. We are fully confident that his 
great experience in international affairs will contribute 
to the conduct of the session’s work.
Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  avail  myself  of  this 
opportunity  to  express  my  sincere  appreciation  for 
the  outstanding  work  of  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson, during his capable and successful presidency 
of  the  previous  session.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.  António  Guterres  on 
the  deserved  trust  that  the  international  community 
has placed in him and his friendly country of Portugal 
with his appointment as the new Secretary-General. We 
would like to wish him success in serving the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as 
well as in his efforts to strengthen peaceful coexistence 
among  nations,  maintain  international  peace  and 
security and reinforce international cooperation in all 
fields, including the follow-up to and implementation of 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and targets.
In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to  say  that 
we  value  the  vital  and  effective  role  played  by  his 
predecessor, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, over the past 10 years, 
and  the  great  achievements  accomplished  during  his 
tenure, such as the Paris Agreement under the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and the adoption of the SDGs, among others.
17-29407
19/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
The  State  of  Kuwait  firmly  believes  in  the  vital 
and effective role played by the United Nations and its 
various bodies, agencies and programmes in addressing 
the increasing global challenges and risks. We welcome 
the proposals and plans put forward by the Secretary-
General to restructure the Secretariat so as to make it 
more coherent, promote its effectiveness, and ensure the 
cohesion and coherence of its activities in maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  follow-up  to 
and the implementation of the SDGs.
We renew our call with regard to the need to reform 
the Security Council so as to reflect new international 
realities in a manner that can reinforce its credibility and 
legality and ensure a permanent Arab representation on 
the  Council,  commensurate  with  the  number  of  Arab 
States and their contribution to supporting the various 
activities of the United Nations.
We  are  concerned  about  the  challenges  and  risks 
that have arisen in various regions of the world, such 
as  the  spread  of  violence,  extremism  and  terrorism, 
as  well  as  the  risk  of  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  and  the  threat  of  their  use.  We  also 
deplore violations of human rights such as those of the 
Rohingya  Muslim  minority  in  Myanmar.  We  call  for 
all acts of oppression against them to end immediately. 
They  must  be  granted  the  right  to  citizenship  and  a 
decent life.
The State of Kuwait has a firm and principled position 
when  it  comes  to  condemning  terrorism  in  all  of  its 
forms and manifestations. We support all international 
measures  to  combat  terrorism  and  eliminate  terrorist 
organizations. Kuwait also contributes significantly to 
the provision of logistical support to the international 
alliance against extremist groups.
in  various  forms.  We 
It is regrettable that for multiple reasons the Middle 
East  region  has  the  lion’s  share  of  such  extremist 
challenges 
therefore  need 
concerted international efforts to deal with them, and 
we  must  concentrate  on  addressing  their  root  causes 
so  that  the  world  can  enjoy  security  and  stability. 
Such challenges and risks threaten the very essence of 
international  peace  and  security,  with  the  majority  of 
victims being innocent civilians.
Our brother Republic of Iraq is facing significant 
security,  political  and  economic  challenges,  the  most 
prominent of which is combating terrorist organizations 
and extremist groups. In that respect, we congratulate 
the Government and the people of Iraq on the victories 
that its forces have achieved on the ground in battling 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and on 
their successful liberation of numerous areas previously 
under the control of ISIL. We hope that such victories 
continue  until  the  remaining  areas  still  under  ISIL’s 
control  are  entirely  liberated.  We  hope  that  they  can 
contribute  to  national  reconciliation  efforts  among 
the  various  elements  of  the  Iraqi  people,  leading  to 
the  restoration  of  peace  and  stability  in  Iraq  and  the 
maintenance of its unity, independence and territorial 
integrity, while creating an appropriate environment for 
launching  the  process  of  reconstruction  and  ensuring 
the return of refugees to their homes.
In  that  context,  and  in  response  to  the  calls 
for  humanitarian  and  development  assistance,  the 
State  of  Kuwait,  in  cooperation  with  Iraq  and  the 
international  community,  will  host  an  international 
donors  conference  in  the  coming  year  to  rebuild  the 
areas  devastated  by  ISIL.  We  renew  our  commitment 
to providing all possible forms of support to help Iraq 
fulfil  its  remaining  obligations  under  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions so as to regain its regional 
and international role and standing.
This  year  marks  50  years  since  the  occupation 
of  Palestinian  territories  began  in  1967.  It  is  the  only 
Arab cause that has been the subject of endless United 
Nations  resolutions  and  international  and  regional 
initiatives only to see none of them implemented, owing 
to the intransigence of the occupying Power, Israel, and 
its  explicit  and  blatant  refusal  to  implement  Security 
Council  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy.  The 
most  recent  is  resolution  2334  (2016),  which  stressed 
that  the  Israeli  settlement  activities  are  illegal  and 
illegitimate  and  called  for  them  to  cease,  as  they 
undermine the prospects of reaching a just, lasting and 
comprehensive peace.
The  State  of  Kuwait  stresses  its  condemnation  of 
the Israeli violations that occurred recently at Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif  in  Jerusalem  in  a  new  attempt  to  alter  its 
historical  status.  We  categorically  reject  all  illegal 
Israeli policies, plans and practices aimed at Judaizing 
the  Holy  City,  erasing  its  Arab  identity,  disrupting 
its  demographic  structure  and  isolating  it  from  its 
Palestinian  perimeter.  Such  violations  represent  a 
flagrant threat to international peace and security and 
run counter to the relevant Security Council resolutions 
and the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949.
20/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
We therefore appeal to the international community 
and the Security Council to honour their responsibilities 
and  continue  pressuring  Israel  to  implement  the 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy,  allowing  the 
Palestinian  people  to  gain  their  legitimate  political 
rights  and  the  recognition  of  their  own  independent 
State over their own territory, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital and based on the borders of 4 June 1967, in 
accordance with the principle of land for peace and the 
Arab Peace Initiative.
It is deplorable that since the onset of the crisis in 
Syria, we have seen horrifying actions in that ongoing 
conflict, confirming that destruction is its main theme. 
Its  economic,  social  and  humanitarian  impact  has  yet 
to be evaluated or calculated, but it will, unfortunately, 
contribute  to  the  loss  of  an  entire  generation  of  our 
brothers  in  Syria.  The  death  toll  of  the  conflict  has 
exceeded  400,000  and  nearly  12  million  Syrians  are 
either displaced or refugees, in addition to the massive 
destruction  of  property  and  infrastructure  that  has 
occurred in the majority of Syria’s provinces.
We estimate my country’s voluntary contributions 
at  various  conferences  to  be  $1.6  billion,  the  bulk  of 
which  has  been  given  to  specialized  United  Nations 
agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organizations  dealing  with  humanitarian  affairs. 
Despite the political and humanitarian efforts aimed at 
curbing the conflict in Syria, the reality on the ground 
remains unchanged, making it clearer than ever that the 
conviction  and  position  that  we  have  advocated  from 
the beginning — that the crisis cannot be resolved by 
military means — is correct.
The pace of the political track is still slow. Since 
the  issuance  of  the  communiqué  of  the  Geneva 
Conference on Syria (A/66/865, annex), whose content 
has led to sharp differences over its interpretation, we 
have witnessed seven rounds of Syrian talks in Geneva 
among the various parties over a period of five years, 
without  any  significant  progress.  We  must,  therefore, 
intensify  our  efforts  to  bring  together  the  parties  to 
the  conflict,  so  that  they  can  hold  direct  talks  aimed 
at  finding  a  peaceful  settlement  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  Security  Council  resolution  2254 
(2015).  Such  talks  should  lead  to  the  creation  of  a 
political  situation  that  is  able  to  maintain  the  unity, 
independence  and  sovereignty  of  Syria  and  meet  the 
legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people.
We  reaffirm  our  full  commitment  to  the  unity  of 
Yemen and respect for its sovereignty and independence. 
We  reject  any  interference  in  its  internal  affairs  and 
stress  our  support  and  backing  of  constitutional 
legitimacy  in  Yemen.  A  political  solution  in  Yemen 
should be based on the three agreed actions — in other 
words,  the  initiative  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
countries  and  its  Implementation  Mechanism,  the 
outcome  of  the  national  dialogue  and  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  in  particular  resolution 
2216 (2015). The State of Kuwait has made significant 
efforts to peacefully resolve the conflict in Yemen. Last 
year, over a period of three months, we hosted political 
consultations  between  the  Yemeni  parties  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  aimed  at  restoring 
stability  in  that  brother  country.  In  that  regard,  we 
reiterate our readiness to host our Yemeni brethren for 
the signing of a final accord reached among them.
We renew our support for the efforts of the United 
Nations  and  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-
General  for  Yemen  aimed  at  reaching  a  peaceful 
settlement to that crisis, thereby ending the suffering of 
the  Yemeni  people,  who  are  facing  dire  humanitarian 
and economic conditions. We believe that the optimal 
solution for addressing those humanitarian conditions 
requires the restoration of peace and stability in Yemen 
in  a  manner  that  would  preserve  its  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity.
At the regional level and within the framework of 
the  efforts  undertaken  by  Kuwait  to  consolidate  the 
foundations  of  good  neighbourly  relations,  we  renew 
our call to the Islamic Republic of Iran to take serious 
confidence-building  measures  and  establish  relations 
based  on  reciprocal  cooperation,  mutual  respect, 
common interests and non-interference in the internal 
affairs of States. We also call on it to renounce practices 
that jeopardize the security and stability of the region 
and  contradict  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  international  law,  and  to  adhere 
to  the  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy.  Such 
measures would enable us to direct our efforts towards 
reconstruction and development, so that all the peoples 
of the region can enjoy security, peace and well-being.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
faces major challenges, thanks to erroneous behaviour 
on  the  part  of  human  beings  over  the  years  and  the 
impact  of  natural  disasters  and  greenhouse-gas 
emissions  —  challenges 
increase  our 
international  responsibility.  It  is  therefore  incumbent 
that  only 
17-29407
21/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
on  us  to  do  our  utmost  to  fully  implement  the  2030 
Agenda. To that end, we must enhance the mechanisms 
of development partnerships in order to keep pace with 
the needs and requirements of sustainable development. 
By doing that, we will be able to fulfil our international 
commitments and show our solidarity at the global level. 
That would constitute a real start towards reaching the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with a view to 
eliminating every form of poverty. In the context of the 
historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we must 
address the impact of climate change, as it represents 
one of the biggest impediments to achieving the SDGs, 
and we must do so by following the principle of shared 
but differentiated responsibility.
The  State  of  Kuwait  is  steadily  forging  ahead 
under  the  leadership  of  His  Highness  Sheikh  Sabah 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  Amir  of  the  State  of 
Kuwait, as we work to implement the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development by mainstreaming its goals in 
Kuwaiti national development plans and programmes, 
with  the  participation  of  all  sectors  of  civil  society 
and  all  partners.  My  country’s  development  plan,  the 
New Kuwait 2035 strategy, contains seven basic pillars 
that  aim  to  transform  Kuwait  into  a  leading  regional 
financial, commercial, cultural and institutional hub.
The  State  of  Kuwait  has  consistently  shouldered 
its  regional  and  international  responsibilities  with  a 
view to achieving development in its various economic, 
social  and  environmental  dimensions.  We  have  come 
a  long  way  along  the  path  of  implementing  the  noble 
initiatives of His Highness the Amir aimed at advancing 
international  partnerships  and  reinforcing  Kuwait’s 
previous humanitarian and development efforts.
Before  I  conclude  my  statement,  I  would  like  to 
express the gratitude of the Government and the people 
of the State of Kuwait for the trust that those present 
placed in my country during the elections held in June by 
electing it as a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council  for  the  period  2018-2019.  Almost  40  years 
after Kuwait’s first non-permanent membership in the 
Security Council from 1978 to 1979, we return today to 
renew our commitment to strengthening the role of the 
Security  Council  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, the prevention of conflicts and the 
support  of  mediation  efforts  and  endeavours  for  the 
peaceful settlement of conflicts.
participation of small States in the work of the United 
Nations  and  its  bodies.  We  will  strive  to  support  and 
activate  the  international  response  to  the  refugee 
and  immigrant  crises  and  all  other  humanitarian 
crises  resulting  from  wars  and  conflicts,  which  have 
intensified in recent years, while hoping that peace and 
security prevail all over the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait for the statement 
he has just made.
His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Hamad 
Al  Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Fiji
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Fiji.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have great pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama, Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Bainimarama  (Fiji):  I  want  to  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  assuming  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session and by wishing him every success in the 
upcoming year.
As we all know, the global community faces a great 
number of challenges, of which climate change is only 
one. But I am sure that we all want to send a message 
of  solidarity  and  sympathy  tonight  to  the  millions  of 
people  in  the  Caribbean  who  are  suffering  from  the 
ravages  of  Hurricane  Maria.  It  is  an  especially  cruel 
ordeal  so  soon  after  Hurricane  Irma  paved  a  path  of 
destruction  through  the  Caribbean  and  the  southern 
part of the United States. Our thoughts and prayers are 
with those who have been affected.
We  are  also  committed  to  supporting  efforts  to 
make  the  Council  more  transparent  and  promote  the 
The Fijian people share a special sense of solidarity 
with  those  who  have  lost  either  loved  ones  or  their 
22/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
homes and possessions in such events. Last year, we lost 
44 of our own people and a third of our gross domestic 
product when Fiji was struck by the biggest cyclone in 
its history. So, as the incoming President of the twenty-
third  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change (COP-23), I am deeply conscious of the need to 
lead a global response to the underlying causes of such 
events.  The  appalling  suffering  in  the  Caribbean  and 
the United States reminds us all that there is no time 
to waste.
I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  new 
President’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter  Thomson, 
the 
first  Fijian  to  occupy  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Ambassador  Thomson  carried  out  his  role 
with  great  distinction,  and  I  especially  want  to  thank 
him for the role he has played in bringing the parlous 
state  of  our  oceans  to  global  attention.  The  Ocean 
Conference  that  Fiji  co-hosted  with  Sweden  in  June 
was an unqualified success. As a global community, we 
have begun the massive task of restoring the health of 
our oceans and tackling the overfishing that is stripping 
them of marine life and depriving millions of people of 
a precious resource, now and in the future. I salute the 
United Nations for appointing Ambassador Thomson as 
Special Envoy for the Ocean. It is an honour for Fiji to 
have one of our own leading an effort that is so vital to 
ensuring  the  implementation  of  a  crucial  Sustainable 
Development Goal.
Next  year  will  mark  the  fortieth  anniversary  of 
Fiji’s contribution to United Nations peacekeeping. As a 
small nation, we have suffered a great deal of pain from 
the loss of some of our finest troops on peacekeeping 
duties  over  the  years.  But  our  contribution  is  a  very 
important  part  of  how  we  see  ourselves  as  a  nation, 
with our men and women in uniform serving the global 
community  by  protecting  ordinary  people  in  troubled 
parts of the world. For 40 years, we have helped make 
the world more secure. And now we are determined to 
make a successful contribution to the wider security of 
the planet through our leadership of COP-23.
There  is  no  escaping  the  fact  that  climate  change 
is as great a threat to global security as any conflict. 
Millions of people are already on the move because of 
drought  and  the  changes  to  agriculture  that  threaten 
their  food  security.  History  has  taught  us  that  human 
beings  will  always  fight  over  access  to  water.  Unless 
we tackle the underlying causes of climate change, we 
already know that some places will become unlivable 
and others will disappear altogether. In my own region, 
three  of  our  neighbours  are  at  risk,  which  is  why  Fiji 
has offered to give refuge to the people of Kiribati and 
Tuvalu in the event of a worst-case scenario in which 
their homes sink beneath the waves.
For  the  Fijian  people,  climate  change  is  real.  It 
affects our lives in every way. The entire villages that 
we are moving out of the way of rising seas, the loss of 
our ancestral burial grounds, the salinity affecting our 
crops and the constant threat of destruction to homes 
and infrastructure of the kind that we experienced last 
year are all evidence of that. The reason that our hearts 
go out to the people of the Caribbean right now is not 
only because we can empathize with them but because 
we fear the same fate. I implore the nations of the world 
to imagine a third of their gross domestic product being 
destroyed in the space of a year or so. Imagine another 
cyclone  scoring  a  direct  hit  and  wiping  out  decades 
of development.
It  is  clear  that  global  warming  changes  our  very 
understanding  of  what  our  national  interests  are.  It 
challenges us to understand that the only way for every 
nation  to  put  itself  first  is  to  lock  arms  with  every 
other nation and move forward together. Anything else 
is  self-destructive  for  the  world  and  for  each  nation. 
It  may  be  tempting  for  political  leaders  to  show  that 
they  are  protecting  some  national  industry  or  near-
term  economic  goal,  but  we  must  ask  at  what  cost. 
Wise leaders must work hard to convince their peoples 
to  embrace  the  path  that  we  know  that  we  must  take. 
There  is  no  choice  to  be  made  between  prosperity 
and  a  healthy  climate,  for  how  prosperous  can  we  be 
if  we  must  devote  our  resources  to  relocating  entire 
populations  or  reinforcing  major  cities?  How  much 
does it cost to find new places to farm? What will the 
consequences  be  for  global  and  regional  security  if 
nations begin to compete for safe land or have conflicts 
over the movements of climate refugees? It is obvious 
that we need to cooperate.
We  need  to  learn  from  each  other  and  use  the 
world’s  considerable  resources  to  do  the  greatest 
possible  amount  of  good  for  the  greatest  possible 
number  of  people.  We  need  to  continue  to  create 
prosperity  and  ensure  the  well-being  of  the  nations 
and ecosystems of the world. If we view the process as 
some sort of negotiation in which each country tries to 
preserve its narrow national interests, we will all lose. 
We will be powerless to protect our own people from 
the consequences of climate change. Collective action 
17-29407
23/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
is  the  only  way  forward.  Wise  men  and  women  will 
understand that.
That is why I took on the role of President of COP-
23 and why I have eagerly embraced the opportunity to 
be the first Pacific Islander to do so. It is about ensuring 
that my own people flourish and prosper, now and in 
the  future.  By  collaborating  with  the  other  nations 
of  the  world  through  the  process,  we  will  ensure  that 
together, humankind can flourish and prosper. Morocco 
will  pass  the  ball  to  me  and  the  Fijian  team  in  Bonn 
in  November,  and  we  thank  the  Moroccan  presidency 
of  COP-22  for  making  such  great  strides  towards  the 
goal  of  fully  implementing  the  Paris  Climate  Change 
Agreement. Next year, Fiji will pass the ball to Poland. 
I want to assure the Polish presidency of COP-24 that 
Fiji will be supporting it throughout the entire process.
Our own presidency would not be possible without 
Germany’s wonderful assistance. We simply could not 
have staged an event of such size and complexity in Fiji. 
Out of necessity, we have forged a bond with Germany 
that  is  an  example  to  the  world  of  how  countries  at 
opposite ends of the Earth and of vastly different means 
and size can work effectively for a common goal. We 
did  it  with  Sweden  at  the  Ocean  Conference  in  June, 
and we are equally proud to stand shoulder to shoulder 
with  Germany  to  deliver  on  the  goals  that  the  Paris 
Agreement has outlined.
Fiji  is  deeply  conscious  that  Governments  alone 
cannot  overcome  the  challenge  at  hand.  That  is  why 
we are placing such emphasis on the notion of a grand 
coalition  of  Governments  at  every  level  with  civil 
society, the private sector and ordinary citizens moving 
the  agenda  forward.  I  am  reaching  out  to  governors, 
mayors and leaders of every sort across our societies, 
people of faith, people on the front line in the climate 
struggle,  women  and  the  young  people  who  represent 
our  future.  We  are  going  to  do  things  differently  in 
Bonn. The formal proceedings will be led by our chief 
negotiator,  Ambassador  Nazhat  Shameem  Khan,  and 
I will play a roving role. I will be on hand to resolve 
any difficulties that arise in the formal negotiations. In 
order to reflect the importance of our grand coalition, I 
will be travelling between the two zones in Bonn, that 
of the formal negotiations and the climate action zone, 
along with my good friend and our climate champion, 
Mr. Inia Seruiratu, as well as my fellow Pacific leaders. 
I  am  counting  on  them  to  help  me  get  the  message 
across that only by working together can we move the 
process faster and further.
In the climate action zone — the Bonn zone — Fiji 
and Germany are bringing together all those who have 
a  part  to  play  in  making  our  grand  coalition  a  great 
transformation, including climate activists, companies 
at  the  cutting  edge  of  technology,  artists,  creative 
people, dancers and performers. We will be stamping 
the  zone  with  the  Fijian  bula  spirit  of  optimism 
and  inclusiveness  that  has  made  our  islands  famous 
throughout  the  world.  In  the  formal  Bula  zone,  we 
want  the  nations  of  the  world  to  embrace  what  we  in 
Fiji  and  some  other  Pacific  countries  call  the  spirit 
of  talanoa,  characterized  by  dialogue  based  on  trust, 
empathy  and  the  collective  good.  In  our  experience, 
it is the best way of getting things done, especially in 
difficult circumstances. It embodies engagement that is 
respectful,  honest  and  cooperative  and  acknowledges 
that  none  of  us,  no  matter  how  powerful,  can  solve 
the  climate  challenge  on  our  own.  For  humankind  to 
survive,  flourish  and  prosper,  we  have  no  alternative 
but to cooperate.
We have already established a solid foundation for 
our efforts in the presidency. The formal negotiations are 
progressing, and we are looking forward to welcoming 
ministers  and  their  delegations  and  representatives 
of  civil  society  to  Fiji  next  month  for  our  pre-COP 
meeting. We are already delighted to see the energy and 
sense of purpose of the leaders in our grand coalition. 
I  am  especially  grateful  to  Governor  Jerry  Brown 
of  California,  whom  I  have  appointed  to  help  me  as 
Special  Envoy  for  States  and  Regions  and  who  heads 
an impressive list of political leaders around the world 
who are part of the Under2 Coalition. As we all know, 
the Paris Agreement calls for global warming to be kept 
well  under  2°C  above  the  average  temperature  of  the 
industrial age and as close as possible to 1.5°C.
A  year  ago  I  stood  here,  before  my  appointment 
as President of COP-23, and called for 1.5°C to be our 
target  (see  A/71/PV.8).  I  meant  it  then  and  I  mean  it 
now. Fixing that number as our objective is urgent, and 
we must do it as soon as possible. I certainly carry with 
me the authority of the Pacific to pursue that objective, 
and at this point I would like to pay heartfelt tribute to 
a  Pacific  islander  whom  we  have  just  lost  but  whose 
legacy  will  live  on  in  these  negotiations.  Two  years 
ago, Tony deBrum of the Marshall Islands took a very 
powerful  slogan  to  Paris  —  “One  point  five  to  stay 
alive”. We intend to honour Tony’s legacy, and I intend 
to draw on his spirit during my presidency.
24/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
In  addition  to  ensuring  decisive  action  to  limit 
global  warming,  we  must  also  do  a  lot  more  to  make 
nations  and  communities  more  resilient  where  the 
effects of climate change are concerned. We know that 
we  are  all  going  to  have  to  adapt.  But  we  must  make 
special  provision  for  those  who  are  most  vulnerable 
and  have  the  fewest  resources  for  coping  with  the 
catastrophic consequences we are witnessing all around 
us. We are pleased to be part of a serious engagement 
with  Governments  and  the  private  sector  aimed  at 
securing  innovative  and  more  affordable  access  to 
insurance so that those affected by disasters can recover 
more quickly. It is a question of fairness and economic 
development, because without insurance, many nations 
and communities find restoration and rebuilding simply 
too great a burden. We are also encouraged by the rapid 
development  of  clean,  affordable  alternative-energy 
solutions  for  countries  across  the  world,  which  offers 
great  promise  that  we  can  achieve  the  1.5°C  target 
and prosper.
I have no doubt that the role that I have embraced as 
COP-23 President is the most important ever undertaken 
by a Fijian leader. I appeal to my fellow Pacific leaders 
to  support  me  as  we  tackle  the  greatest  challenge 
that  our  region  and  the  world  have  ever  seen.  I  want 
to  acknowledge  the  work  of  the  past  30  years  of  the 
Alliance of Small Island States, which has consistently 
looked after the interests of our peoples and reminded 
the  world  that  our  interests  are  the  interests  of  every 
global citizen. We are all in the same canoe, which is 
why we will have a Fijian ocean-going canoe — a  na 
drua — in the main hall in Bonn to remind everyone of 
the need to fill its sails with the collective determination 
to move this process forward and deliver on the promise 
we made to each other in Paris. To all the nations that 
have  yet  to  ratify  the  Paris  Agreement,  I  say,  please 
do so.
I appeal to the nations of the world and to all the 
leaders of the grand coalition for their support. I draw 
my  power  as  COP  President  from  them  and  I  will  do 
everything in my power to use it wisely.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Fiji for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Fiji, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nasser  Bourita,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Kingdom 
of Morocco.
Mr.  Bourita  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  on 
his election to preside over the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session and to wish him every success 
in his noble task. We would also like to commend his 
predecessor, Mr. Peter Thomson, for his excellent work 
and the successes that his presidency brought.
We would like to reiterate our support for the efforts 
of  Secretary-General  Guterres  to  reform  the  United 
Nations and its mechanisms on the political, economic 
and security fronts. The proposed reforms create new 
dynamics, giving new momentum to the Organization’s 
activities and strengthening the principles enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations. We would also like to 
express the support of the Kingdom of Morocco for the 
road map that the Secretary-General has proposed for 
mediation and preventive diplomacy in the settlement 
of  disputes  by  peaceful  means,  building  on  efforts  to 
maintain  peace,  realize  sustainable  development  and 
combat  terrorism.  Our  world  today  is  at  a  crossroads 
that is having a direct effect on our collective efforts to 
achieve sustainable development, strengthen peace and 
security and lay the foundations of cooperation, and I 
would therefore like to address three relevant issues.
First,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  while  walls 
between  nations  have  come  down  and  the  numbers 
of  victims  have  diminished,  there  have  emerged  new 
threats  to  security,  such  as  terrorism,  extremism, 
separatist movements and climate change, that are no 
less dangerous than previous ones. It is clear that while 
globalization  has  greatly  boosted  the  international 
economy, it also triggered the economic and financial 
crisis that led to increased unemployment and poverty 
and deepened social differences within States.
information 
Secondly,  while 
technology  has 
witnessed  great  developments,  including  expanded 
networks and growing numbers of users, some terrorist 
organizations  have  sought  to  use  those  developments 
to undermine security and stability, threaten the peace 
of  individuals  and  erode  development  efforts,  while 
still  others  have  used  them  to  advance  their  criminal 
enterprises. This situation, which gives a glimpse of the 
future of our world, is very threatening because we are 
17-29407
25/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
unable to foresee what is coming. We therefore have to 
reform our collective working mechanisms in order to 
improve their predictive capacities.
Thirdly, there are those who believe that they have 
the ability and resources to fend for themselves against 
these  difficulties.  However,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
believes  that  only  an  effective,  multilateral  global 
organization  can  resolve  the  collective  problems  that 
we are all facing.
We can no longer look at Africa as a burden on the 
international  community.  We  Africans  do  not  believe 
that our continent has ever been a burden on the world, 
despite  the  misunderstandings  and  unfair  rulings  and 
judgements that exist. Africa has yet to take its proper 
place  on  the  world’s  agenda,  which  cannot  be  based 
on the numbers of conferences dedicated to it, related 
agenda  items  taken  up  or  resolutions  adopted.  The 
continent’s problems cannot be addressed through the 
mere  provision  of  assistance.  Given  its  varied  natural 
and  human  resources  —  including  approximately  a 
billion young people — its fertile lands and abundant 
water, Africa has enormous potential.
Thanks  to  the  foresight  of  His  Majesty  King 
Mohammed  VI,  over  the  past  two  decades  Morocco 
has  made  South-South  cooperation  the  basis  of  its 
foreign  policy,  reflecting  the  King’s  view  that  such 
cooperation represents a promising foundation for the 
efforts  of  the  international  community.  Morocco  has 
adopted  a  realistic  approach  to  forging  partnerships 
and  is  supplying  human  resources  and  technological 
know-how  to  assist  African  countries  in  their  efforts. 
In an address to the people of Morocco on 20 August 
2016, His Majesty emphasized that Morocco does not 
view Africa as a market for the sale and promotion of 
Moroccan products or as a source of quick profits, but 
as a forum for joint action to save the region and develop 
African cities. That is why we have sought to establish 
partnerships with a number of African countries aimed 
at  supporting  economic  growth  and  integration  and 
providing  jobs  and  security.  That  was  not  a  decision 
fuelled  by  opportunism  but  a  historic  commitment 
emerging  from  the  King’s  deep  understanding  of  the 
continent, as he expressed at the twenty-eighth session 
of  the  Summit  of  the  African  Union  when  he  said, 
“Africa is my continent. Africa is my home”.
With  the  same  commitment  and  determination, 
Morocco  will  continue  to  shoulder  its  responsibility 
within the African Union as a founding member of its 
precursor,  the  Organization  of  African  Unity,  and  as 
a  committed  partner  that  has  never  disappointed  the 
African  continent  but  rather  has  always  defended  it 
in  regional  and  international  forums.  We  are  always 
eager  to  serve  Africa  and  realize  its  ambitions  and 
objectives.  Morocco  is  committed  to  multilateralism 
and to finding the right answers to problems, based on 
the  international  community’s  three  important  areas 
of responsibility — migration, climate change and the 
fight against terrorism and extremism — and attested 
to by the confidence that the international community 
has  placed  in  Morocco,  which  bases  its  approach  on 
aligning its national priorities with those on the United 
Nations  agenda  and  on  sharing  its  experience  with 
African partners.
the  Netherlands,  works 
As Chair of the Global Counter-Terrorism Forum, 
Morocco,  along  with 
to 
strengthen  national  and  regional  cooperation  and  to 
share  its  experience  in  combating  terrorism  with  its 
African  brothers  and  partners  by  sharing  information 
and  expertise,  as  well  as  through  religious  training 
programmes  that  reject  all  forms  of  intolerance  and 
extremism and that have reached hundreds of thousands 
of  imams  and  leaders,  men  and  women,  of  various 
African nationalities, at centres such as the Institute of 
Mohammed V and the Mohammed VI Foundation for 
African Ulema.
Morocco co-chairs the Global Forum on Migration 
and  Development,  which  seeks  to  develop  proposals 
that  are  not  limited  to  security  issues  but  are  also 
informed  by  the  development  and  human  aspects  of 
migration.  We  hope  those  efforts  will  be  included  in 
the global compact on migration to be adopted by the 
United  Nations  in  2018.  Within  the  African  Union, 
King Mohammed will be presenting a concept paper on 
developing  a  joint  African  approach  to  migration  and 
its root causes. Morocco has also developed a strategy 
for activating a process that can help African citizens 
south  of  the  Sahara  fully  enjoy  their  economic  and 
social rights.
With regard to climate change, Morocco presided 
over the twenty-second session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  held  in  Marrakech  in  November 
2016. Qualitative changes were made during the session 
in translating the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
into  practical  measures,  as  well  as  the  adoption  of 
the  Marrakech  Declaration,  which  states  that  efforts 
to  achieve  development  and  sustainable  development 
26/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
represent a high-level political commitment that should 
be honoured with a balanced and cooperative approach 
that meets the needs of least developed countries and 
developing nations.
to 
its 
shouldering 
Africa is at the heart of Morocco’s interests in this 
regard.  His  Majesty  chaired  the  first  African  summit 
on  climate  change,  which  resulted  in  an  ambitious 
and  balanced  action  plan  that  reflects  the  continent’s 
commitment 
responsibilities 
with  regard  to  international  efforts.  At  the  national 
level,  Morocco  has  adopted  an  ambitious  policy  for 
addressing  the  effects  of  climate  change,  particularly 
where renewable energy is concerned. It should reduce 
our energy needs by 42 per cent by 2020 and 52 per cent 
by 2030, as well as lowering our carbon dependency. It 
should also attract promising international investment 
in the development of clean energy.
Since the 1960s, the Kingdom of Morocco has been 
committed  to  the  United  Nations  cause  in  deploying 
peacekeeping  forces  in  Africa.  We  have  contributed 
to those international forces by sending military units 
totalling  6,000  soldiers  to  six  countries  —  Angola, 
the  Congo,  Somalia,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Central  African 
Republic,  where  there  are  currently  more  than  1,600 
Moroccan  military  personnel.  I  would  like  to  express 
Morocco’s  deep  concern  about 
irresponsible 
attacks that have recently been made on international 
peacekeepers. Such attacks trample on United Nations 
values  and  should  be  considered  war  crimes  whose 
perpetrators should be brought to justice. The Kingdom 
of  Morocco  shares  the  Organization’s  concern  about 
such attacks and therefore requests that the Secretariat 
take  appropriate  measures  to  protect  peacekeepers 
in  conflict  zones.  Today,  we  need  a  new  approach  to 
peacekeeping  operations,  making  troop-contributing 
countries central to their decision-making in a way that 
is based on the values of the United Nations.
the 
The  Palestinian  question  was  one  of  the  first  just 
causes  taken  up  by  the  United  Nations  following  its 
inception, yet no solution has been found to date, nor is 
any agreement in sight, despite the tremendous efforts 
made  by  the  international  community,  especially  the 
current  United  States  Administration.  The  Kingdom 
of  Morocco,  whose  King  Mohammed  VI  chairs  the 
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  Committee  of  the  Organization 
of  Islamic  Cooperation,  reiterates  its  rejection  of  any 
attempts  aimed  at  changing  the  historical  and  legal 
status  of  the  Holy  City  and  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  and 
renews  its  calls  to  the  Israeli  authorities  to  cease 
such practices.
The Arab Maghreb is still dealing with the difficult 
issues  that  have  resulted  from  the  lack  of  political 
cooperation  and  the  vulnerable  security  situation 
produced by the crisis in Libya. This raises questions 
for the parties that are still dealing with past conflicts, 
such  as  in  the  Moroccan  Sahara.  If  the  international 
community  wishes  to  achieve  a  peaceful  settlement 
based on consensus, and if the Moroccan initiative for 
self-rule  there  is  to  gain  more  support,  the  parties  in 
the region involved in that dispute should abandon their 
two-faced discourse and assume their responsibilities. 
Morocco  would  like  to  emphasize  its  readiness  to 
work in honestly and transparently with the Secretary-
General and Mr. Horst Köhler, his Personal Envoy for 
Western Sahara, in order to reach a peaceful settlement 
that  can  maintain  Morocco’s  territorial  integrity  and 
sovereignty, based on the self-rule initiative.
Morocco is also developing a policy to enable the 
people of the Moroccan Sahara to rule themselves and 
thus to enable North-West Africa to mitigate the dangers 
of separatism, Balkanization, extremism and terrorism. 
In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  call  the  Assembly’s 
attention to the terrible situation in the Tindouf refugee 
camps  and  urge  the  international  community  to  put 
pressure  on  the  host  country  to  allow  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
to respond to the Secretary-General’s call and register 
everyone in the camps.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Miguel Vargas Maldonado, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Vargas  Maldonado  (Dominican  Republic) 
(spoke in Spanish): I am honoured to address the General 
Assembly on behalf of the people and the Government 
of the Dominican Republic. At the outset, I would like 
to apologize on behalf of Mr. Danilo Madina Sánchez, 
President  of  the  Dominican  Republic,  for  his  absence 
from the debate, as he has had to return to our country 
to deal with Hurricane Maria.
Our  meeting 
this  week  coincides  with 
the 
devastating season of natural disasters that our region 
has  been  enduring  for  nearly  a  month  with  terrible 
consequences. The disasters have also spread to Mexico, 
which  has  been  hit  by  two  destructive  earthquakes, 
and the southern United States, viciously punished by 
Hurricane Harvey. In the catalogue of human suffering 
17-29407
27/29
A/72/PV.10 
20/09/2017
caused  by  Hurricane  Irma,  that  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda stands out, particularly Barbuda, 90 per cent 
of whose infrastructure has collapsed, according to its 
Prime  Minister,  Gaston  Browne.  Hardly  had  Irma’s 
devastating winds dropped than Maria arrived, leaving 
a new trail of destruction and death, inflicting a direct 
hit first on Dominica and today on its neighbour Puerto 
Rico, causing great destruction and damage.
to  act  in  a  responsible  and  united  way  to  defend  the 
lives of our people. And I would like to be extremely 
clear on this point. The messages of solidarity and the 
humanitarian aid that always follow such disasters are 
not  enough.  Nor  is  it  enough  to  sign  agreements  on 
climate change. There is an urgent and critical need to 
act coherently on those agreements in order to advance 
a united agenda and set concrete plans in motion.
We take this opportunity to express our solidarity 
with  Puerto  Rico,  which  is  also  our  neighbour,  as 
well  as  with  all  the  countries  affected.  The  people  of 
the Dominican Republic offer their deepest sympathy 
for  the  destruction  and  the  large  numbers  of  victims. 
Accurate  figures  for  the  damage  done  on  Saint 
Barthélemy,  Saint  Maarten,  Anguilla,  the  Virgin 
Islands,  Tortola,  Turks  and  Caicos,  Puerto  Rico,  the 
Dominican Republic and especially Florida and Cuba, 
have  yet  to  be  determined.  However,  we  can  say  that 
they  have  suffered  substantial  damage,  that  recovery 
will take years and that, tragically, valuable lives have 
been lost.
To  give  Member  States  an  idea  of  how  severely 
we  have  been  affected,  despite  the  lack  of  definitive 
figures, I can say that the material losses caused by this 
hurricane  season  alone  far  exceed  the  gross  domestic 
product  of  the  Dominican  Republic.  We  often  focus 
on  material  damage  and  ignore  the  human  suffering 
caused  by  such  disasters,  whose  lethal  power  has 
been aggravated by climate change. The statistics are 
striking, but they cannot reflect the pain of the victims, 
their  desolation  at  seeing  so  much  work  ruined  and 
so many efforts, visions and dreams lost. It is not just 
houses that have been lost, it is homes. Material damage 
has been done, but above all, lives have been shattered.
We must recognize the inherent dangers of climate 
change,  which  are  far  more  significant  in  the  context 
of  the  geography  of  the  Caribbean.  Our  economies, 
our way of life and our potential for development are 
in jeopardy. The vulnerability of the Caribbean and of 
the  Dominican  Republic  poses  a  risk  that  we  cannot 
face  alone.  While  our  country  was  fortunate  enough 
not  to  suffer  human  losses  during  the  recent  passage 
of  Hurricane  Irma,  we  are  aware  that,  like  every 
Caribbean island, we will always be vulnerable to this 
type of phenomenon.
That  reality  impels  us  to  once  again  draw  the 
Assembly’s  attention  to  the  crucial  importance  of 
joining  forces  to  confront  such  threats.  It  compels  us 
We  are  facing  a  growing  problem  that  knows  no 
borders and requires the cooperation and solidarity of 
all  of  us,  but  especially  the  most  developed  and  most 
powerful  countries.  We  are  facing  a  reality  that  will 
oblige us to act as responsibly as we can if we do not 
want to go on lamenting the consequences. That is why 
my  country  is  once  again  proposing  to  the  Assembly 
that we create a special fund for dealing with this type 
of disaster and for prevention and early warning, which 
will  help  us  save  lives.  If  we  want  to  see  an  example 
of  how  economic  resources  can  help  to  mitigate  the 
damage done by natural phenomena, we need only look 
at the United States. After the most recent hurricanes, 
its  Government,  which  has  the  necessary  resources, 
immediately made $15 billion available for rebuilding 
its  affected  states,  thereby  providing  its  citizens  with 
the  help  they  needed.  Conversely,  there  is  no  way 
that  vulnerable  areas  such  as  the  island  region  of  the 
Caribbean  can  cope  with  the  devastation  that  such 
phenomena inflict on our peoples and countries.
As  an  example, 
take  my  own  country, 
the 
Dominican Republic. This year, natural phenomena in 
the form of rains and floods have damaged thousands 
of  kilometres  of  highways  and  roads,  resulting  in 
substantial  losses.  Dozens  of  bridges  have  collapsed 
and miles of retaining walls and irrigation canals have 
been destroyed. Thousands of acres of mixed farmland 
that are vital to keeping our people fed every day have 
been  lost.  In  addition,  among  much  other  damage, 
hundreds of homes have been destroyed, not counting 
those hit by Hurricane Irma. We have spent more than 
$500 million on rescue and relief operations just in the 
past few months.
We  are  therefore  concerned  about  the  fact  that 
similar, or even more powerful, events resulting from 
climate change have the potential to set the development 
of  ours  and  other  Caribbean  countries  back  10  years. 
I  am  talking  about  snatching  away  a  whole  people’s 
happiness  and  prospects  for  the  future.  That  is  not 
something we can continue to take lightly. It is in that 
28/29 
17-29407
20/09/2017 
A/72/PV.10
context  that  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
solidarity between our countries make most sense.
On  behalf  of  all  the  men,  women,  children  and 
elderly  people  who  are  utterly  desperate  right  now,  I 
urge  all  of  us  to  seek  ways  for  the  United  Nations  to 
support  Governments  that  cannot  cope  on  their  own 
in  rebuilding  their  countries  in  the  wake  of  natural 
disasters. Let us take the necessary steps to make that 
aid available and ensure that it reaches those in desperate 
need. It is part of our responsibility as brother nations. 
I would also like to call on the countries of the United 
Nations to reflect anew, and urgently, on what we must 
do in order to counteract extreme climate events. The 
scientific evidence for the relationship between natural 
disasters,  man-made  change  and  global  warming  is 
quite sufficient. It is time for us to play our part and act 
to slow down events, or the future will judge us for our 
total lack of responsibility.
Since  the  Organization  was  founded,  72  years 
ago,  our  country  has  been  a  member  of  the  unique 
experience  in  the  history  of  humankind  that  is  its 
creation.  Since  then,  the  United  Nations  has  been  a 
beacon pointing the way to a future of hope. We must 
never  fall  into  complacency  on  that  road.  We  know 
that essential aspects of our civilization, such as peace, 
security and development, are not gifts that drop from 
the  sky.  They  are  not  something  that  we  can  take  for 
granted. They are the result of a commitment between 
our peoples that must be constantly renewed and that 
we  must  keep  working  for.  The  Dominican  Republic 
is  fully  committed  to  that  vision  and  to  the  search 
for  comprehensive  solutions  to  the  challenges  facing 
the  international  community.  We  are  determined  to 
contribute  energetically  to  building  an  ever-more 
democratic, participatory and effective United Nations 
to help solve our peoples’ real problems.
The meeting rose at 9.35 p.m.
17-29407
29/29
