United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
40th plenary meeting
Thursday, 2 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.40
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Biang (Gabon), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 67
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Human Rights Council (A/72/53 
and A/72/53/Add.1)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
connection  with  this  item,  I  would  like  to  recall  that 
at its 2nd plenary meeting, on 15 September 2017, the 
General  Assembly  decided  to  consider  agenda  item 
67  in  plenary  meeting  and  in  the  Third  Committee 
pursuant to resolution 65/281, of 17 June 2011.
I  shall  now  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
President of the General Assembly.
(spoke in English)
the  President  of 
I have the honour to deliver the following remarks 
on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák:
“I  welcome 
the  Human 
Rights  Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joaquín 
Alexander  Maza  Martelli,  who  will  today  present 
the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/72/53 
and  A/72/53/Add.1)  to  the  General  Assembly.  I 
congratulate him on his leadership of the Council.
“The  Human  Rights  Council  is  the  main 
body  within  the  United  Nations  dedicated  to  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  Its  importance  remains 
clear.  In  so  many  places  around  the  world  we 
continue to witness violations of human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms.  The  Council,  through  its 
various  mechanisms,  procedures  and  resolutions, 
gives  a  voice  to  all  people,  including  those  who 
are  most  vulnerable  and  may  otherwise  not  be 
heard. It is the main forum to address the situation 
of  those  facing  gross  violations,  discrimination 
and exclusion.
“The  Council  has  commenced  the  third  cycle 
of the Universal Periodic Review (UPR). The UPR 
is  an  inclusive  peer-review  mechanism,  based  on 
the  principles  of  dialogue,  cooperation  and  equal 
treatment  of  all  Member  States.  This  mechanism 
reinforces the respect for human rights at both the 
national and global levels. The success of the UPR 
is  another  demonstration  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council  is  an  effective  mechanism  to  advance  all 
human rights.
“Promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights 
is  one  of  the  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations. 
Each  pillar  is  essential,  and  all  three  pillars  are 
interdependent  and  mutually  reinforcing.  As  I 
said at the opening of the general debate, ‘Human 
rights  are  crucial;  neither  peace  nor  development 
can take hold without them’ (A/72/PV.3, p. 6). The 
work  of  the  Council  is  therefore  crucial  to  our 
collective responsibility to fulfil our commitments 
to  achieving  sustainable  development,  including 
in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-36003 (E)
*1736003*
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
and  pursuing  global  peace  and  security  for  ‘We 
the peoples’.
“The debates and discussions within the Council 
are often intense and sometimes contentious. This is 
an expected scenario given the various interests and 
sensitivities  regarding  the  issues  on  the  Council’s 
agenda.  Nevertheless,  it  is  of  utmost  importance 
that Member States work constructively to ensure 
that  the  Human  Rights  Council  remains  relevant 
and effective in safeguarding the human rights of 
all people.
“Amid the political and philosophical debates, 
let us place at the centre our shared responsibility 
to  promote  and  protect  the  rights  of  all  people  as 
well as to address violations, including gross and 
systematic violations around the world. The Human 
Rights  Council  should  continue  to  be  central  in 
our efforts.”
(spoke in French)
In  accordance  with  resolution  65/281,  of  17  June 
2011,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Maza  Martelli, 
President of the Human Rights Council.
Mr.  Maza  Martelli  (President,  Human  Rights 
Council) (spoke in Spanish): It is an honour to introduce 
the  annual  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/72/53 and A/72/53/Add.1) to the General Assembly. 
I would like to begin by congratulating the 15 recently 
elected members of the Human Rights Council. I have 
full  confidence  that  all  members  of  the  Council  will 
work  hard  to  uphold  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights.
for 
respect 
At  the  beginning  of  my  presidency,  I  articulated 
what  would  give  meaning  to  my  mission  in  the 
Council:  promoting  universal 
the 
protection  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  for  all,  without  distinction  of  any  kind; 
addressing  situations  of  violations  of  human  rights, 
including  gross  and  systematic  violations;  promoting 
the  effective  coordination  and  the  mainstreaming 
of  human  rights  within  the  United  Nations  system; 
and  guiding  the  Council’s  work  in  favour  of  the 
principles of universality, impartiality, objectivity and 
non-selectivity, constructive international dialogue and 
cooperation. These principles of resolution 60/251 have 
guided my presidency this year.
The  work  of 
is 
summarized in the report, which contains the activities, 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
resolutions,  decisions  and  President’s  statements 
adopted by the Council at its regular sessions this year, 
as well as the special session held on 14 December 2016. 
During  the  year,  the  Human  Rights  Council  offered 
proactive  responses  to  human  rights  issues  through 
its  country-specific  and  thematic  mandates.  Over  the 
course of its three regular sessions, the Council adopted 
a  total  of  114  resolutions,  80  of  which  were  adopted 
without  a  vote.  Under  its  Universal  Periodic  Review 
mechanism, by the end of the year, the Council will have 
reviewed the fulfilment of human rights obligations by 
28 member States.
I  am  also  happy  to  report  that  the  Council  once 
again  saw  increased  participation  from  small  island 
developing  States  and 
least  developed  countries, 
thanks  to  the  Voluntary  Technical  Assistance  Trust 
Fund  to  Support  Participation  of  Least  Developed 
Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing  States  in  the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  which  supported 
27 representatives and Fellows from 26 countries.
Among  the  country-specific  situations  that  the 
Council addressed this year, the situation in Myanmar 
deserved  special  attention.  In  addition  to  the  report 
and  the  oral  update  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
situation of human rights in Myanmar, during its thirty-
fourth  session,  the  Council  created  an  independent 
international fact-finding mission
“to  establish  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 
alleged recent human rights violations by military 
and  security  forces,  and  abuses,  in  Myanmar,  in 
particular in Rakhine state”,
pursuant  to  Council  resolution  34/22.  Subsequent  to 
hearing  the  oral  update  of  and  holding  an  interactive 
dialogue  with  the  fact-finding  mission  during  its 
thirty-sixth session, the Council decided to extend the 
mission’s mandate until September 2018.
The  Human  Rights  Council  also  considered  the 
human  rights  situation  in  Syria.  Interactive  dialogues 
with  the  Independent  International  Commission  of 
Inquiry on the Syrian Arab Republic were held during 
all three of its regular sessions this year. The Council 
also  extended  the  mandate  of  the  Commission  for 
another year. Moreover, during its thirty-fourth session, 
the  Council  held  a  panel  discussion  that  provided  an 
opportunity  for  victims  to  give  their  testimony  on 
specific cases of enforced disappearances and arbitrary 
detention,  and,  in  September,  the  Council  decided  to 
convene  a  high-level  panel  discussion  on  violations 
2/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
of  the  human  rights  of  children  in  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic  at  the  thirty-seventh  session,  to  be  held  in 
March 2018.
In the light of the findings of the Commission on 
Human  Rights  in  South  Sudan  and  considering  the 
human  rights  situation  there,  on  14  December  2016 
the  Council  held  a  special  session  on  the  situation  of 
human rights in that country. During its thirty-fourth 
session, in March of this year, the Council considered 
the comprehensive written report of the Commission on 
Human  Rights,  which  was  followed  by  an  interactive 
dialogue.  The  Council  subsequently  extended  the 
mandate  of  the  Commission  for  another  year  and 
requested that, inter alia, it collect and preserve evidence 
of alleged gross violations and abuses of human rights 
and make such information available to all transitional 
justice  mechanisms,  pursuant  to  Council  resolution 
34/25. The Council also urged the speedy establishment 
of  an  independent  hybrid  court  by  the  African  Union 
Commission 
those 
responsible  for  violations  or  abuses  of  international 
human rights and international humanitarian law, also 
pursuant to Council resolution 34/25.
investigate  and  prosecute 
to 
The  Council  examined  the  oral  update  and  the 
report  of  the  Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Burundi, 
which  was  established  in  2016  to  conduct  a  thorough 
investigation into human rights violations and abuses in 
Burundi since April 2015, including on their extent and 
whether they may constitute international crimes, with 
a  view  to  contributing  to  the  fight  against  impunity 
and  to  identifying  alleged  perpetrators  of  human 
rights violations and abuses in Burundi with a view to 
ensuring full accountability, in accordance with Council 
resolution  33/24.  In  September,  the  Council  extended 
the mandate of the Commission of Inquiry for another 
year.  The  Council  also  decided  to  request  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights to urgently dispatch a team of three experts to 
engage  with  the  Burundian  authorities  and  all  other 
stakeholders to collect and preserve information and to 
forward it to the judicial authorities of Burundi in order 
to establish the truth and ensure that the perpetrators 
of deplorable crimes are all accountable to the judicial 
authorities  of  Burundi,  in  accordance  with  Council 
resolution 36/2.
In relation to the reports of the Special Rapporteur 
on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the group of independent 
experts  on  accountability  for  human  rights  violations 
in that country, the Council decided at its thirty-fourth 
session  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights  in  Seoul  so  as  to  allow  the  implementation  of 
the  relevant  recommendations  made  by  the  group  of 
independent experts on accountability in its report, in 
accordance with Council resolution 34/24. Additionally, 
the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on the situation 
of human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea was extended for another year.
Concerning  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  at  its  thirty-fifth 
session, the Council requested the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  dispatch  a  team 
of  international  experts,  including  experts  from  the 
region, to collect and preserve information to determine 
the 
facts  and  circumstances  concerning  alleged 
human  rights  violations  and  abuses,  and  violations  of 
international  humanitarian  law,  in  the  Kasai  regions, 
pursuant to Council resolution 35/33.
This  year,  the  Council  has  also  requested  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  to  continue  to  assess  progress 
on  the  implementation  of  its  recommendations  and 
other  relevant  processes  related  to  reconciliation, 
accountability  and  human  rights  in  Sri  Lanka,  and 
invited the High Commissioner to continue to report on 
the situations of human rights in Ukraine and in Libya. 
Through  a  resolution,  the  Council  also  requested  that 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  continue  to  provide  technical 
assistance  to  Georgia  through  the  operations  of  its 
Office in that country.
rights 
situation 
Regarding 
the  human 
in 
Yemen,  in  September  the  Council  requested  that  the 
High  Commissioner  establish  a  group  of  eminent 
international  and  regional  experts  with  knowledge  on 
human  rights  law  and  the  context  of  Yemen,  in  order 
to monitor and report on the situation of human rights, 
make recommendations on improving the protection of 
human rights and engage with Yemeni authorities and 
all stakeholders, pursuant to Council resolution 36/31.
The  Council  has  extended  the  existing  country-
specific  special  procedures  mandates  on  Belarus, 
Cambodia,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Eritrea,  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, Mali, Somalia and the Sudan.
During  this  year’s  high-level  panel  discussion 
on  promoting  the  mainstreaming  of  human  rights 
17-36003
3/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
rights 
the  contribution  of  human 
throughout  the  United  Nations  system,  the  Council 
discussed 
to 
peacebuilding through the enhancement of dialogue and 
international  cooperation  for  the  promotion  of  human 
rights. The Council was honoured to have the President 
of the General Assembly and the Assistant Secretary-
General  for  Peacebuilding  Support  participate  in  the 
discussion,  which  has  contributed  to  the  sharing  of 
experiences between Geneva and New York.
In  2017,  the  Human  Rights  Council  has  also 
continued  to  address  a  number  of  global  issues, 
including  human  rights,  in  the  context  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, through thematic 
debates  and  panel  discussions,  for  example,  in  panel 
discussions on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda 
and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  relation 
to  the  rights  of  the  child  and  women’s  rights,  as  well 
as  the  integration  of  a  gender  perspective  throughout 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  that  of 
its mechanisms.
In other panel discussions, including intersessional 
ones,  the  following  topics  were  discussed:  climate 
change;  public  health  and  access 
to  medicines; 
unaccompanied  migrant  children  and  adolescents; 
racial profiling and incitement to hatred, including in 
the  context  of  migration;  the  death  penalty;  the  role 
of  local  Governments;  the  effects  of  terrorism  on  the 
enjoyment  of  all  human  rights;  unilateral  coercive 
measures; and the impact of multiple and intersecting 
forms of discrimination and violence in the context of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
forms  of  intolerance  on  the  full  enjoyment  of  all 
human  rights  by  women  and  girls.  Throughout  those 
discussions,  the  Council  promoted  universal  respect 
for the protection of all human rights and fundamental 
freedoms for all.
This  year, 
the  Council  established  a  new 
special-procedures  mandate,  namely, 
the  Special 
Rapporteur on the elimination of discrimination against 
persons affected by leprosy and their family members, 
pursuant  to  Council  resolution  35/9.  However,  the 
Council did not extend the mandates of the Independent 
Expert  on  Côte  d’Ivoire  or  the  Independent  Expert 
on Haiti.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  emphasize  that 
the  special  procedures  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
not  only  provide  one  of  the  main  sources  of  reliable 
information  on  human  rights  issues  and  situations 
around  the  world  and  a  solid  basis  for  dialogues  and 
debates at the Council, but also contribute significantly 
to United Nations early-warning and prevention efforts. 
It is important that all countries cooperate with and grant 
access to these special-procedures mandate-holders so 
that they are able to carry out their work efficiently.
I am pleased to inform the Assembly that, to date, 
118 Member States and one observer State have issued 
standing  invitations  to  thematic  special  procedures. 
However, I am concerned by the position of some States 
in  not  cooperating  with  the  Council’s  mechanisms  or 
cooperating only with a select few. I call upon all States 
that have not yet done so to issue standing invitations 
to  the  special-procedures  mandate-holders  and  fully 
cooperate with the Council’s mechanisms.
Allow  me  now  to  turn  to  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review, the peer-review mechanism regarded as one of 
the greatest achievements of the Human Rights Council. 
The third cycle of the Universal Periodic Review began 
in May, and we will open the twenty-eighth session of 
the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review 
next Monday. With 100 per cent participation over the 
first two cycles, the Universal Periodic Review is a true 
celebration of the principle of universality.
We  have  witnessed  very  positive  developments; 
for example, there has been an increased focus on the 
follow-up and implementation of recommendations and 
the use of development assistance by States themselves 
in order to facilitate follow-up activities at the national 
level. Furthermore, to date, 66 States have voluntarily 
submitted Universal Periodic Review mid-term reports 
in relation to recommendations put forward during the 
first and second cycles. I hope that these good practices 
continue  and  that  they  are  strengthened  throughout 
the  third  cycle.  I  am  very  pleased  that  the  Secretary-
General has underscored, in his reports to the current 
session of the General Assembly, the importance of the 
Universal Periodic Review process in connection with 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
At  its  thirty-fifth  session,  the  Human  Rights 
Council acknowledged the crucial role that parliaments 
play  in  incorporating  international  commitments  into 
national  policies  and  laws,  including  by  supporting 
the implementation of recommendations supported by 
States  concerned  in  the  framework  of  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review.  Furthermore,  a  resolution  was 
adopted  on  the  contribution  of  parliaments  to  the 
4/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  Universal 
Periodic Review.
The active participation of civil society and national 
human rights institutions is a core aspect of the work of 
the Human Rights Council. In addition to providing us 
with first-hand information from the field, interjecting 
unique perspectives into our discussions and drawing 
our  attention  to  urgent  human  rights  situations,  they 
play  a  fundamental  role  in  follow-up  and  capacity-
building efforts in their home countries.
I wish to inform the Assembly that I have received 
allegations of intimidation, threats and reprisals against 
individuals who seek to cooperate or have cooperated 
with  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its  mechanisms, 
matters on which I have followed up directly with the 
States  concerned.  It  is  essential  that  duly  accredited 
representatives  of  civil  society  and  national  human 
rights  institutions  be  provided  with  a  safe  space  to 
allow  their  voices  to  be  heard,  as  well  as  to  interact 
with other stakeholders. I regularly remind States that 
acts of intimidation and reprisals against individuals or 
groups  that  participate  in  the  work  of  the  Council  or 
its  mechanisms  are  unacceptable,  and  I  call  on  them 
to  take  all  necessary  measures  to  prevent  and  ensure 
adequate protection against such acts.
This  year,  the  Human  Rights  Council  adopted 
several resolutions with recommendations made to the 
General Assembly. Through the resolution adopted in 
March on the human rights situation in the Syrian Arab 
Republic,  the  Human  Rights  Council  recommended 
that  the  General  Assembly  submit  the  reports  of  the 
Independent  International  Commission  of  Inquiry 
on  Syria  to  the  Security  Council  for  appropriate 
action  (Council  resolution  34/26).  In  its  resolution  on 
ensuring accountability and justice for all violations of 
international law in the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  also  adopted  in  March,  the 
Council recommended that the General Assembly
“remain apprised of the matter until it is satisfied 
that appropriate action with regard to implementing 
the recommendations made by the United Nations 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  in  its 
report has been or is being taken appropriately at 
the national or international levels to ensure justice 
for  victims  and  accountability  for  perpetrators” 
(Council resolution 34/28, para. 9).
In March, the Council also recommended that the 
General Assembly invite States located in the regions 
where people of African descent live and of which they 
are citizens to offer to host regional conferences on the 
establishment of the forum of people of African descent 
with  the  participation  of  people  of  African  descent 
with a view to making substantive contributions on the 
format, structure and content of the proposed forum.
through 
its 
Furthermore, 
resolution  on 
the 
seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and the twenty-fifth anniversary of the 
Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action adopted 
at its thirty-fifth session, the Council invited the General 
Assembly to consider holding a special commemorative 
meeting on the occasion of the anniversaries.
Finally,  with  regard  to  the  situations  of  human 
rights in Eritrea and Burundi, the Council has requested 
the  General  Assembly  to  submit  the  reports  and  oral 
updates of the respective commissions of inquiry to all 
relevant organs of the United Nations for consideration 
and appropriate action, pursuant to Council resolutions 
35/35 and 36/19, respectively.
Before concluding, I wish to highlight the increasing 
challenges  that  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  facing 
with regard to the growing gap between the workload 
entailed  in  servicing  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  resources  allocated  to  the  United  Nations  Office 
at  Geneva  and  the  Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management.  With  a  view  to  finding 
solutions to this issue, a joint task force was established 
in  May,  comprising  a  representative  of  the  Bureau  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  representatives  of  the 
United  Nations  Office  at  Geneva  and  the  Office  of 
the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  Based  on 
the  report  and  recommendations  of  the  task  force,  in 
September,  the  Bureau  presented  various  proposed 
measures, including substantive time-saving measures, 
to the Council for its consideration.
Despite  holding  several  consultations  on 
the 
proposals, including within the framework of a Council 
meeting  on  20  October,  it  has  not  been  possible  to 
reach  consensus  on  the  proposed  measures  at  this 
stage. Further Council consultations, to be held under 
the  leadership  of  the  next  Bureau,  will  be  required 
with  a  view  to  adopting  sustainable  measures  to 
allow the Human Rights Council to carry out its work 
more efficiently.
As the Secretary-General told the Security Council 
in January,
17-36003
5/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
interconnected  nature  of 
“the 
today’s  crises 
requires  us  to  connect  our  own  efforts  for  peace 
and  security,  sustainable  development  and  human 
rights not just in words, but in practice (S/PV.7857, 
p. 3)”.
in  the  implementation  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  must  be  provided  with  adequate  resources 
so as to be able to assist States develop their national 
capacity  and  expertise  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Council’s recommendations.
Today, when the world is facing many complex crises 
with human rights dimensions, the work of the Human 
Rights  Council,  as  the  premier  United  Nations  forum 
on  human  rights,  is  essential  to  the  international 
community’s efforts aimed at achieving peace, security 
and development. I therefore call on all States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  to  focus  their  full  and  devoted 
attention to this issue.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly  for  its  consistent  support  for  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  its  work,  and  express  my  most 
sincere hope that this support will continue throughout 
the rest of this year, as well as in the years to come.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 
President  Maza  Martelli  for  introducing  the  report  of 
the Human Rights Council.
Mr. Giorgio (Eritrea): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of the Group of African States.
The  African  Group  welcomes  this  opportunity  to 
have a dialogue with the President of the Human Rights 
Council,  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Maza  Martelli, 
on the annual report of the Council’s activities during 
its  eleventh  cycle  year  (A/72/53).  We  also  appreciate 
the vision and leadership role played by the presidency 
in  carrying  out  its  mandate  to  support  the  work  of 
the Council.
The  African  Group  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
Council’s mandate as the principal United Nations body 
of first instance responsible for universal respect for the 
protection of all human rights and fundamental freedoms 
for all, without distinction of any kind and in a fair and 
equal manner, as enshrined in the founding resolution 
60/251.  We  wish  to  recall  that  the  Council‘s  mandate 
should be driven by the principles of cooperation and 
genuine  dialogue,  free  from  politicization,  selectivity 
and double standards.
that 
Africa  remains  convinced 
the  Universal 
Periodic Review is a pillar of the work of the Human 
Rights Council in the fulfilment of States’ human rights 
obligations  and  in  the  improvement  of  the  situation 
on  the  ground.  In  realizing  these  objectives,  the 
Voluntary Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance 
The  African  Group  reaffirms  its  endorsement  of 
the  Vienna  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action, 
adopted  at  the  third  World  Conference  on  Human 
Rights, on 25 June 1993. This outcome fundamentally 
underlines  that,  first,  all  human  rights  are  universal, 
indivisible,  interdependent  and  interrelated,  and  that, 
secondly,  the  right  to  development  are  a  universal, 
inalienable  right  and  an  integral  part  of  fundamental 
human rights. Furthermore, Africa fully subscribes to 
the  terms  of  paragraph  14  of  the  Vienna  Declaration, 
which states that,
“[t]he  existence  of  widespread  extreme  poverty 
inhibits the full and effective enjoyment of human 
rights;  its  immediate  alleviation  and  eventual 
elimination  must  remain  a  high  priority  for  the 
international community.”
We  are  encouraged  by  the  Council’s  work  in  the 
area  of  the  practical  enjoyment  of  economic,  social 
and  cultural  rights,  which  remains  key  to  eradicating 
extreme  poverty,  inequality  and  underdevelopment 
worldwide,  and  we  are  of  the  view  that  more  can  be 
done  in  this  area.  The  African  Group  places  a  high 
premium on the principle of constructive dialogue and 
international cooperation aimed at practically assisting 
States  to  fulfil  their  human  rights  obligations.  The 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations impel us to promote global solidarity and to act 
towards one another in the spirit of concrete international 
cooperation, especially with a view towards achieving 
socioeconomic progress in the developing world.
The  African  Group’s  principled  position  on  the 
notion  of  the  justiciability  of  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights  and  their  progressive  realization  is 
informed by the recognition that extreme poverty and 
social exclusion constitute a violation of human dignity 
and  that  urgent  steps  must  be  taken  to  achieve  better 
understanding  of  extreme  poverty  and  its  causes.  A 
troubling aspect of this is the negation of socioeconomic 
and  cultural  rights.  We  do  not  believe  in  a  hierarchy 
of  rights,  which  is  consistent  with  the  premise  of  the 
human  rights-based  approach.  We  cannot  promote 
one set of rights to the exclusion of others and hope to 
6/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
achieve the inculcation of human rights consciousness 
throughout the entire world.
At this juncture, the Group would like to reaffirm 
the  mandate  of  the  Third  Committee  to  examine 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  through  the 
adoption of its annual report. We have noted increasing 
attempts to undermine this mandate by proposing that 
the report of the Human Rights Council be submitted 
to  the  General  Assembly  without  the  endorsement  of 
the Committee. The Group therefore wishes to caution 
against  establishing  such  a  dangerous  precedent  for 
the methods of work of the General Assembly and its 
subsidiary bodies. Any changes to this mandate would 
require  the  endorsement  of  the  universal  membership 
through  an  inclusive  intergovernmental  process.  To 
this  end,  the  African  Group  will  continue  to  present 
its annual draft resolution towards the adoption of the 
report of the Human Rights Council.
In  conclusion,  we  assure  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly of our support and cooperation as it 
leads the Council towards the fulfilment of its mandate.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give the floor to the observer of the European Union.
to 
like 
thank 
Ms.  Brito  Maneira  (European  Union):  The 
European  Union  (EU)  would 
the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Maza  Martelli,  for  presenting  the  Council’s  twelfth 
annual report to the General Assembly (A/72/53). The 
candidate countries Montenegro and Albania, and the 
country  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and potential candidate Bosnia and Herzegovina, align 
themselves with this statement.
The  European  Union  has  strongly  supported  the 
Human  Rights  Council  since  its  establishment,  and  it 
continues to do so. Eleven years have passed since the 
General  Assembly  established  the  Council,  and  much 
has been achieved. The system of special procedures, 
the  establishment  of  accountability  mechanisms,  the 
Universal Periodic Review and all other mechanisms of 
the Council have contributed positively to the promotion 
and protection of human rights worldwide. Through the 
delivery  of  technical  assistance  and  capacity-building 
mandates, it has also helped countries faced with human 
rights crises build human rights protection policies and 
fulfil their international obligations.
The Council has been entrusted with the mandate 
of  promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without 
distinction of any kind and in a fair and equal manner. 
Also  part  of  its  mandate  is  addressing  situations 
of  violations  of  human  rights,  including  gross  and 
systematic  violations  and  making  recommendations 
thereon. Furthermore, the Council should also promote 
the effective coordination and mainstreaming of human 
rights within the United Nations system.
There  is  further  potential  to  strengthen  dialogue 
and  synergies  between  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and  the  Security  Council  so  as  to  ensure  that  human 
rights are central to every United Nations action. The 
Human  Rights  Council’s  mandate  to  contribute  to 
preventing  human  rights  violations  through  dialogue 
and  cooperation  and  to  respond  promptly  to  human 
rights  emergencies  must  be  fully  operationalized  so 
as  to  translate  early  warning  into  early  action.  The 
Council’s  existing  mechanisms  can  be  better  used  to 
play this stronger prevention role. The European Union 
looks  forward  to  continuing  to  contribute  to  the  full 
implementation of the Council’s wide mandate granted 
under its founding resolution 60/251.
Calls 
for  enhancing  and  strengthening 
the 
effectiveness  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  have 
steadily increased over the past few years. The EU is 
firmly  committed  to  engaging  constructively  in  an 
inclusive cross-regional process of reflection, dialogue 
and review coordinated from Geneva, focusing on the 
body’s working methods, efficiency, effectiveness and 
impact.  The  outcomes  of  such  a  Geneva-coordinated 
process  would 
inform  action  deemed 
necessary in New York.
then  help 
The  Secretary-General  addressed 
the  Council 
during its high-level segment in March, alerting us all 
to the fact that disregard for human rights is a disease 
that  is  spreading  north,  south,  east  and  west,  and  he 
continued to say that the Human Rights Council must 
be part of the cure. The Council is indeed part of the 
cure. Commissions of inquiry and fact-finding missions 
have been established to respond to serious allegations 
of human rights violations and abuses around the world. 
The system of independent special-procedures mandate 
holders are our eyes and ears, contributing to a global 
early  warning  system  that  gives  us  indications  of 
emerging crises and assisting countries in respecting, 
protecting and fulfilling their human rights obligations.
The European Union will continue to make every 
effort  to  ensure  that  the  Human  Rights  Council  is 
17-36003
7/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
not only able to help prevent or address human rights 
violations  and  abuses,  including  gross  and  systematic 
ones,  as  well  as  respond  promptly  to  human  rights 
emergencies, but also improve human rights standards 
and their implementation worldwide through systematic 
work  on  relevant  thematic  issues.  In  this  context,  the 
EU  recalls  the  importance  of  the  independence  of 
the  Council  and  strongly  opposes  any  attempts  to 
undermine  the  institutional  position  of  the  Council 
within the United Nations system.
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  central  role 
played  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  addressing 
human  rights  situations  throughout  the  world.  The 
severe  consequences  of  the  crisis  in  Syria  and  the 
violations  committed  by  all  parties,  particularly  the 
Syrian regime and its allies, cannot be ignored by any 
State. Any breaches of international law, in particular 
international humanitarian law and human rights law, 
some  of  which  may  constitute  war  crimes  or  crimes 
against  humanity,  must  be  brought  to  justice.  In  this 
context,  the  Council’s  ongoing  response  to  the  crisis 
remains critically important, as demonstrated by efforts 
to foster accountability and fight against impunity.
The European Union welcomes the decision reached 
by consensus during the last session of the Human Rights 
Council to request the High Commissioner for Human 
Rights to establish a group of eminent international and 
regional  experts  to  monitor  and  report  on  the  human 
rights  situation  in  Yemen,  carry  out  a  comprehensive 
examination  of  all  alleged  violations  and  abuses  of 
international  human  rights  law  and  other  appropriate 
and  applicable  fields  of  international  law  committed 
by  all  parties  to  the  conflict,  establish  the  facts  and 
circumstances  surrounding  the  alleged  violations  and 
abuses and, where possible, identify those responsible. 
We call on all parties to cooperate fully with the new 
investigative mechanism for Yemen.
During  the  past  year,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
has  also  demonstrated  its  commitment  to  promoting 
reconciliation,  accountability  and  human  rights  in 
Sri  Lanka,  and  to  providing  technical  assistance 
and  capacity-building  to  promote  human  rights  to 
the  Governments  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Haiti  and  Mali. 
Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  continued  support  that 
has been rendered to the occupied Palestinian territory, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  the  Republic  of  Guinea, 
Georgia, Libya and Ukraine. We trust that the Council 
will  continue  to  closely  monitor  situations  where 
technical assistance and capacity-building can make a 
difference and take action where necessary.
Civil 
society  and  human 
rights  defenders 
play  a  crucial  role  in  the  work  of  the  Council 
and  its  mechanisms,  as  provided  for  in  the  2007 
institution-building  package.  Targeting  individuals  or 
groups that engage with United Nations human rights 
mechanisms  is  deplorable  and  runs  contrary  to  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  The  EU 
strongly  condemns  any  act  of  violence,  harassment, 
intimidation,  reprisal  or  threat  thereof.  The  ability  of 
individuals  and  groups  to  raise  concerns  with  special 
procedures  without  fear  is  vital  for  the  work  of  these 
mechanisms and their capacity to fulfil their mandates.
The issue of reprisals needs a consistent approach 
at the international and regional levels; we must do our 
utmost to prevent and eliminate such acts. Civil society 
and its representatives are valuable partners for human 
right mechanisms and the protection and promotion of 
human  rights.  We  therefore  welcome  the  work  done 
by  Andrew  Gilmour,  Assistant  Secretary-General  for 
Human Rights, in the role designated by the Secretary-
General to receive, consider and respond to allegations 
of  intimidation  and  reprisals  against  those  seeking  to 
cooperate with the United Nations and its mechanisms. 
The EU will continue to support their engagement with 
the Council and the human rights mechanisms.
On  16  October,  the  General  Assembly  elected 
15  new  members  of  the  Council  (see  A/72/PV.31). 
important 
Serving  as  a  Council  member  entails 
responsibilities.  Resolution  60/251  provides 
that 
members elected to the Council shall uphold the highest 
standards  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights and fully cooperate with the Council. While we 
congratulate the new members, we also remind them to 
pay careful attention to the human rights situations in 
their own countries and to cooperate with the Council 
mechanisms  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the 
human  rights  of  all,  without  discrimination  of  any 
kind. No State has a perfect human rights record, and 
we therefore encourage the newly elected members to 
engage  in  the  work  of  the  Council  in  a  spirit  of  self-
reflection, with a view to the improvement of our own 
human rights situation and to address all human rights 
concerns that come before the Council on the basis of 
their merits.
We  also  strongly  encourage  all  States  and  other 
stakeholders  to  cooperate  with  the  special  procedures 
8/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
as a means to enhance the protection and promotion of 
human  rights.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  all 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  extend  a  standing 
invitation to all special procedures.
Membership  of 
the  Council 
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council is seized of the serious human rights situation 
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and underline 
the  importance  of  the  mechanism  established  on 
accountability concerning events in the Kasai regions. 
We  urge  the  Government  of  the  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo to fully cooperate with the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
and the international expert group in this regard.
increases 
the 
responsibilities of the holder to cooperate with Council 
mechanisms  and  adhere  to  international  norms  and 
obligations.  The  EU  welcomes  the  renewal  of  the 
mandate of the Commission of Inquiry on Burundi and 
calls  on  the  Government  of  Burundi,  as  a  member  of 
the  Council,  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Commission 
of  Inquiry  as  well  as  with  other  international  human 
rights mechanisms. As stated in the Council’s founding 
resolution,  members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
should  uphold  the  highest  standards  in  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights, both domestically and 
internationally, and we reiterate our urgent call on the 
Government of Burundi to do so.
The  EU  welcomes  the  creation  of  an  independent 
international  fact-finding  mission  to  establish  the 
facts  and  circumstances  of  the  alleged  recent  human 
rights  violations  and  abuses  by  military  and  security 
forces and abuses in Myanmar, particularly in Rakhine 
state,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  full  accountability  for 
perpetrators and justice for victims. The EU takes the 
opportunity  to  call  once  again  on  the  Government  of 
Myanmar to cooperate with this mission.
We  also  welcome  the  extensions  of  the  country-
specific  mandates  of  the  Special  Rapporteurs  on 
the  situations  of  human  rights  in  Myanmar,  Iran, 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Eritrea 
and  Belarus  and  the  extension  of  the  mandate  of  the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights  in  South  Sudan.  In 
this regard, it is important to recall the special session 
held in December 2016 following allegations of ethnic 
cleansing,  including  claims  of  sexual  violence  of  an 
unprecedented severity and scale.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our continued 
commitment to the work of the Human Rights Council 
and  to  further  strengthening  the  Council’s  role  in 
the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights,  the 
development of international human rights law and in 
the prevention of human rights violations and abuses. 
We will continue to systematically uphold and ensure 
the  implementation  of  existing  international  norms 
and  standards,  and  at  all  times  strongly  defend  the 
universality, indivisibility, interdependency, inalienability 
and interrelated character of human rights.
Ms. Al-Thani (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): First of all, 
I would like to express once again Qatar’s indignation 
at and condemnation of the act of terrorism perpetrated 
in New York. We express our most sincere sympathy to 
the victims and to the Government and the people of the 
United States, and we trust that the injured will recover 
rapidly.  We  wish  to  state  that  Qatar  stands  with  the 
United States and supports all steps taken to safeguard 
peace and stability.
I would like to say that we greatly appreciate the 
words of Ambassador Maza Martelli, President of the 
Human  Rights  Council.  We  thank  him  for  his  work, 
which  has  been  described  in  the  comprehensive  and 
noteworthy report (A/72/53 and A/72/53/Add.1). Qatar 
continues to participate in the work of the Human Rights 
Council as a member. We have been elected once again 
for the new 2018-2020 term, and we are determined to 
continue our effective work in the Council to promote 
fundamental rights and freedoms.
We  pay  tribute  to  the  work  being  done  by  the 
Council in accordance with the principles of neutrality, 
objectivity  and  impartiality.  We  shall  continue  to 
cooperate  with  members  of  the  Council  in  order  to 
enable the Council to execute its mandate pursuant to 
those principles.
Qatar plays its role in striving to fulfil the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
with  respect  to  the  protection  of  human  rights,  the 
maintenance of international peace and security and the 
achievement of development. My country incorporates 
those  concepts  in  its  policies  and  in  its  Constitution, 
seeking  to  strengthen  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  while  ensuring  respect  for  such  rights  and 
the protection of all. We achieve that end by means of 
our  national  institutions,  which  effectively  contribute 
to  the  implementation  of  Government  policy  for  the 
promotion  and  the  protection  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms.
17-36003
9/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
We  cooperate  with  other  States  and  with  United 
Nations  mechanisms  on  the  basis  of  our  open-door 
policy  to  welcome  those  holding  mandates  related 
to  human  rights.  The  Qatar  National  Vision  2030  is 
therefore founded on the strategic approach that human 
rights  are  fundamental  to  education,  health  care, 
the  environment,  workers’  rights,  the  empowerment 
of  women  and  the  rights  of  the  child,  of  those  with 
special  needs  and  of  the  elderly.  Vesting  its  trust  in 
international  cooperation  on  human  rights,  Qatar 
welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations 
Human Rights Training and Documentation Centre for 
South-West Asia and the Arab Region on 12 February 
2006, pursuant to resolution 60/153. The Centre plays 
an important role and is respected by the United Nations 
and other relevant institutions.
The report of the Human Rights Council submitted 
to the General Assembly reflects the difficult situation 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East 
Jerusalem. Establishing peace in the Middle East must 
involve  respect  for  international  humanitarian  law 
and  international  human  rights  law  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem.  The 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council must also be observed. The report of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  also  mentions  the  serious 
deterioration of the human rights situation in Syria and 
the serious and systematic violations being committed 
on a large scale. The Syrian people must be protected 
and the ceasefire must continue.
As  we  believe  in  the  primacy  of  law  and  the 
principles  of  justice  and  human  dignity,  and  since 
we  are  fully  aware  of  the  importance  of  human 
rights  to  the  stability  and  prosperity  of  societies,  we 
have  been  careful  to  adopt  a  consistent  approach  in 
order  to  promote  human  rights  in  cooperation  with 
institutions of States Members of the United Nations. 
Qatar has made major strides nationally, regionally and 
internationally  in  that  regard.  However,  we  still  face 
illegal  and  unilateral  measures  against  my  country, 
which  constitute  a  serious  violation  of  human  rights 
owing to their negative consequences, as established by 
the National Human Rights Committee in Qatar, in the 
areas of education, health care, the dispersal of families 
and restrictions on freedom of movement and residence.
Given those negative effects on human rights, the 
international community must ensure that international 
law is observed by preventing the imposition on States 
of policies that seek to flout international human rights 
standards.  Such  policies  adopted  against  a  State  such 
as  ours,  which  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  implementing 
the  objectives  of  the  United  Nations,  undermine 
international efforts to promote human rights.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  the 
promotion  of  human  rights  in  an  impartial  and 
objective  way  and  our  cooperation  with  international 
organizations  such  as  the  United  Nations,  the  Human 
Rights Council and other specialized bodies.
Ms.  Wilson  (Australia):  I  have  the  pleasure  of 
delivering this statement on behalf of Canada, Iceland, 
Liechtenstein, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland and 
my own country, Australia.
We take this opportunity to reaffirm our support for 
the Human Rights Council as the pre-eminent United 
Nations forum for consideration, discussion and action 
on human rights. At this time of increasing polarization, 
populism and fundamentalism, it is crucial that States 
Members of the United Nations safeguard the integrity 
of the Human Rights Council.
The  Council  plays  a  crucial  role  in  highlighting 
deteriorating  human  rights  situations  and  in  calling 
on States to uphold their responsibility to protect their 
populations  and  their  obligations  to  respect  and  to 
ensure  human  rights.  The  Council  provides  the  most 
appropriate  forum  to  affirm  that  international  human 
rights  apply  equally  to  all  people  regardless  of  their 
race,  religion,  creed,  disability,  sexuality  or  gender 
identity,  including  online.  Without  the  Council,  the 
international human rights discourse would be poorer, 
human rights violations would go unrecorded and the 
voiceless would remain so.
We  underscore  the  importance  of  the  Council’s 
direct  reporting  relationship  with  the  plenary  of  the 
General  Assembly,  in  accordance  with  resolution 
65/281.  We  call  upon  Member  States  to  join  us  in 
acknowledging and in respecting the separate mandate 
of the Human Rights Council.
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  emphasize  that 
members of the Human Rights Council should uphold 
the highest standards in the promotion and protection 
of human rights, as mandated by resolution 60/251. No 
State has all the answers when it comes to the protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights.  There  is  room  for  us 
all to improve our records and the situations faced by 
our  citizens.  However,  the  tolerance  of,  acquiescence 
to or the commission of gross and systemic violations 
10/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
is always reprehensible. Such behaviour should not be 
accepted or condoned by members of the Human Rights 
Council. Being a member of the Council is a privilege 
that  allows  States  to  drive  the  global  human  rights 
agenda. Our countries support the ongoing discussion 
about how the Human Rights Council could be reformed 
to secure its continued status as a respected advocate 
for human rights.
In  our  national  capacity,  we  would  like  to  note 
that  Australia  was  recently  elected  to  the  Human 
Rights Council for the 2018-2020 term. As a member, 
Australia will take a pragmatic and principled approach 
to  the  Council  and  continue  to  defend  human  rights 
both at home and abroad. We will not shy away from 
difficult issues in our own human rights record, and we 
will strongly encourage other Council members to do 
the same. Our membership term will be characterized 
by  consultations  with  civil  society,  national  human 
rights institutions and human rights defenders.
Our  seven  countries  are  deeply  concerned  by  the 
increasing  hostility  to  civil  society  and  human  rights 
defenders, both online and offline. Without these key 
actors, the Human Rights Council would have little to no 
visibility of the lived experiences of individual rights-
holders in any country. We reject reprisals against any 
person  cooperating  or  seeking  to  cooperate  with  the 
United Nations human rights mechanisms or agencies 
outright,  including  when  these  reprisals  arise  out  of 
participation in the Human Rights Council, contributions 
to  its  Universal  Periodic  Review  or  engagement  with 
the Council’s special-procedures mandates.
We are also deeply concerned by the harassment, 
intimidation  and  obstruction  shown  by  States  to 
special-procedures  mandate-holders.  While  special 
procedures must be even-handed and fair and operate 
in  line  with  their  mandates,  a  mandate-holder  is  an 
independent  voice.  It  is  the  mandate-holder’s  job  to 
shine a spotlight on human rights abuses and violations, 
research and report on worrying trends, encourage new 
norms and share expertise and best practices with the 
global community. We therefore call upon all States to 
work constructively with the special procedures of the 
Human  Rights  Council,  grant  access  where  required, 
consider  their  recommendations  in  good  faith  and 
engage  respectfully,  even  when  common  ground  is 
difficult to find. All of our countries benefit from the 
scrutiny that the special procedures bring to bear.
As we look towards the future, our nations believe 
that, if the Human Rights Council is going to remain 
effective,  it  must  emphasize  diversity  and  inclusion. 
It  is  not  sufficient  that  human  rights  be  enjoyed  by 
members  of  majority  groups  but  not  minorities,  by 
men  but  not  women,  or  by  adults  but  not  children, 
adolescents or older persons. We have the tools in our 
hands,  including  the  Council  and  the  existing  body 
of  human  rights  treaties,  to  ensure  that  no  one  is  left 
behind. We must focus on ensuring that human rights 
protections are enacted for all equally. That must include 
ensuring  that  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender  and 
intersex persons enjoy equal protection of their rights 
and  freedom  from  violence  and  discrimination;  that 
people  with  disabilities  are  empowered  to  participate 
equally  as  contributors,  leaders  and  decision-makers; 
and that the rights of indigenous peoples are respected 
and  upheld.  We  must  reject  cultural  relativism,  calls 
for  collective  rights  to  trump  individual  rights,  and 
arguments that sovereignty should obviate the need for 
international scrutiny.
We  urge  States  to  look  back  at  and  consistently 
apply the agreed language in core international human 
rights  instruments,  such  as  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  and  the  Vienna  Declaration  and 
Programme of Action, and to look forward and use the 
resolutions of the Human Rights Council and the Third 
Committee to ensure that human rights protections are 
inclusive and embrace our global diversity.
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): Given the breadth 
of  its  thematic  activities  and  its  responsiveness  to 
human rights emergencies, as the report presented by 
the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/72/53 
and  A/72/53/Add.1)  illustrates,  the  Council  is  living 
up  to  its  role  as  the  central  and  permanent  human 
rights  body  of  the  Organization.  Since  its  creation,  it 
has  established  itself  as  an  authoritative  voice  in  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights,  including 
through  the  truly  Universal  Periodic  Review  process, 
its body of special procedures and its close engagement 
with human rights defenders.
The review of the Human Rights Council in 2011 
confirmed  the  generally  positive  perception  of  the 
Council  among 
the  membership.  We  collectively 
refrained  from  an  institutional  overhaul  and,  instead, 
used  the  opportunity  to  strengthen  the  Council’s 
institutional  standing 
the  General 
Assembly  and  its  Third  Committee.  A  large  majority 
of the Council’s decisions are taken autonomously and 
in  relation 
to 
17-36003
11/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
immediately implemented. But the Council also reports 
to  the  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  and  feeds  its 
recommendations into the dedicated General Assembly 
Committees, namely, the Third and Fifth Committees. 
We believe that such finely calibrated compromise has 
served both the Council and the Assembly well.
We  also  see  room  for  improvement  in  a  number 
of  areas.  As  pointed  out  by  others,  not  all  provisions 
of the Council’s founding resolution 60/251 have been 
implemented in practice. The resolution stipulates that 
Council members shall uphold the highest standards in 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights,  which 
has  been  a  political  commitment  for  the  General 
Assembly  membership.  We  as  States  have  to  live  up 
to  that  responsibility  when  electing  the  membership 
of the Council. We call upon States to publicly renew 
this  commitment  and  adapt  their  election  practices 
accordingly,  as  a  contribution  to  strengthening  the 
Council in its mission and its daily work.
We  also  support  calls  for  greater  efficiency  and 
effectiveness  in  the  work  and  functioning  of  the 
Council.  Its  efficiency  and  impact  on  the  ground  can 
certainly benefit from a review of its working methods 
and  a  resetting  of  priorities.  We  welcome  the  effort 
undertaken  in  the  framework  of  the  Council  itself  in 
Geneva, which can and should build on experience and 
best practices from the entire United Nations system.
We welcome the resolution adopted by the Council 
on  the  human  rights  situation  in  Myanmar,  and  in 
particular  the  decision  to  dispatch  an  independent, 
international fact-finding mission in order to establish 
the  facts  and  circumstances  of  alleged  human  rights 
violations, especially in Rakhine state. The setting up 
of that mission is an important step towards ensuring 
both full accountability for perpetrators and justice for 
victims.  Events  since  have  illustrated  that  more  and 
urgent action is needed, lest that decision prove to be 
too little, too late.
Our commitment to the protection of human rights 
begins  at  the  national  level.  The  most  significant 
recent  measure  is  the  creation  in  Liechtenstein  of  an 
independent  national  human  rights  institution,  in 
accordance with the Paris Principles. We have therefore 
implemented  the  long-standing  recommendations  of 
various international human rights bodies.
Our  national  human  rights  institution  is  being 
independently  developed  by  civil  society,  without 
the  involvement  of  the  Government,  while  receiving 
funding  from  the  State.  Its  responsibilities  include 
advising  public  authorities  and  private  parties  on 
human  rights  issues,  supporting  victims  of  human 
rights  violations,  informing  the  public  about  the 
situation of human rights in the country, carrying out 
investigations,  recommending  measures  to  be  taken, 
preparing comments on draft laws and ordinances and 
the ratification of international agreements, as well as 
promoting  dialogue  with  national  and  international 
bodies. We are convinced that this new institution adds 
value  to  the  protection  of  human  rights  and  therefore 
further  strengthens  the  high  standards  implicit  in  the 
concept of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Mr. Lal (India): We welcome the President of the 
Human Rights Council, Mr. Maza Martelli, and thank 
him for his detailed statement.
The Human Rights Council plays an important role 
in furthering our common cause of the promotion and 
protection of human rights for all. Even as the Human 
Rights Council has sought to overcome the challenges 
faced by its earlier avatar, its work has not been smooth 
and,  regrettably,  often  proves  to  be  contentious.  The 
reasons  for  many  of  the  difficulties  surrounding  the 
discussions on the human rights agenda are not hard to 
find: divergent priorities and concerns stem primarily 
from the very wide range of situations that exist in terms, 
for example, of member States’ levels of development, 
social and cultural contexts and governance systems.
We  also  welcome  the  resolution  adopted  by  the 
Council on the situation in Yemen, and in particular the 
overdue establishment of an international, independent 
investigative  body 
to  carry  out  comprehensive, 
impartial  and  transparent  investigations  of  atrocities 
and violations of international law. With that decision, 
the Council has finally shown its readiness to address 
the urgent situation in Yemen and has sent a clear signal 
for the need for accountability.
At the same time, the palette of human rights also 
represents  an  entire  range  of  aspects,  from  civil  and 
political,  to  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights  and 
the  right  to  development.  The  question  of  whether 
collective rights should be given priority over individual 
rights  is  sometimes  debated.  Agreeing  on  the  right 
way to promote and protect human rights, including in 
situations of possible gross violations, is also difficult 
if it clashes with the idea of the sovereignty of States.
12/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
Therefore,  while 
the  global  discourse  on 
human  rights  has  continued  to  evolve,  fundamental 
contradictions  remain.  The  relative  prioritization  of 
the  individual  over  the  State,  national  sovereignty 
over  international  norms  and  a  universal  over  a 
culture-specific  approach  evoke  differing  opinions. 
Constraints  on  national  capacities 
implement 
certain rights, instances of the politicization of human 
rights  issues  as  a  foreign  policy  tool  and  perceived 
intrusiveness beyond mandated activities remain areas 
of contention. While the international community has 
developed  extensive  institutional  mechanisms  and 
normative  frameworks  encompassing  various  aspects 
of  human  rights,  there  are  also  continuing  calls  for 
reform  of  some  of  these  mechanisms,  including  the 
Human Rights Council itself.
to 
The  momentum  to  eradicate  poverty  and  achieve 
sustainable  development  and  to  prevent  the  gross 
violation  of  human  rights  in  armed  conflicts  and 
terrorist  attacks  around  the  world  over  the  past  two 
decades has informed recent debates on human rights. 
This  is  witnessed  in  the  somewhat  contradictory 
approaches inherent in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, on the one hand, and the moves towards 
external  action  to  prevent  violations  and  abuses 
and  protect  civilians,  on  the  other  hand.  Emerging 
technologies ranging from cyber- to genetic engineering 
to  artificial  intelligence  will  also  soon  inform  such 
debates in view of their uneven impact on peoples’ lives 
and rights.
The work of the Human Rights Council continues 
to  expand.  This  is  reflected  in  the  large  number  of 
resolutions and decisions being adopted on a range of 
issues  and  the  greater  frequency  of  meetings  and  the 
holding of special sessions. The effectiveness of its work, 
however,  is  not  always  clear.  There  is  a  proliferation 
of  special  procedures  on  both  thematic  and  country-
specific situations. The work of the special procedures 
is often constrained by a lack of adequate funds, and the 
opacity of funding is also an area of concern. There is the 
problem of certain special procedures clearly exceeding 
their  mandates.  A  more  balanced  representation  in 
the  staffing  of  institutions,  such  as  the  Office  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
(OHCHR), would add to their effectiveness. Further, the 
country-specific special procedures have largely been 
counterproductive, and the Council’s role in providing 
technical capacity-building has been limited to only a 
few situations.
In  that  context,  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
(UPR)  mechanism  counts  as  a  significant  success 
over  the  past  decade  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
Every  Member  State  has  presented  its  report  at 
least  once.  Also,  significantly,  a  number  of  specific 
recommendations emerging from this very interactive 
and constructive exercise have been implemented by a 
number  of  Member  States  in  their  domestic  contexts. 
These are concrete instances of change occurring as a 
result of our collective work.
the 
review  on 
This  year,  India  presented  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review of its human rights record — its third in fewer 
than  10  years  —  at  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
Geneva.  Also  this  year,  India  presented  its  voluntary 
national 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda 
at United Nations Headquarters. Both these voluntary 
and  State-driven  processes  elicited  wide  interest  and 
engagement. A similar voluntary aspect is behind the 
success of the climate-action contributions put forward 
by  the  parties  to  the  landmark  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change.
implementation  of 
Each of the foregoing is an instance of constructive 
and  collaborative  engagement  for  shaping  a  better 
collective future. We believe that this cooperative spirit, 
rather  than  counterproductive  and  often  politicized 
naming  and  shaming,  is  essential  to  enhancing  the 
promotion and protection of human rights globally.
India  has  engaged  actively  at  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  It  recognizes 
the  primacy  of  national 
responsibility  and  efforts  aimed  at  realizing  human 
rights. The promotion and protection of human rights 
should be addressed in a fair and equal manner, with, as 
the guiding principles, objectivity, respect for national 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  non-interference 
in 
internal  affairs  of  States,  non-selectivity 
and transparency.
the 
In conclusion, we firmly believe that all State parties 
must make every effort to fulfil their treaty obligations. 
The  approach  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  treaty 
bodies, special procedures and OHCHR should not be 
confrontational; rather, it should focus on achieving the 
desired results through dialogue and capacity-building.
Ms.  Alsabah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First  of 
all, I would like to welcome His Excellency Mr. Maza 
Martelli,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
who is with us in this Hall today. I also welcome the 
efforts that have been made during his presidency and 
17-36003
13/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
thank  him  for  the  comprehensive  report  (A/72/53)  he 
presented at the start of today’s meeting.
My  delegation  familiarized  itself  with  the  report 
and  its  addendum,  as  well  as  the  ideas  they  contain, 
which  cover  the  special  session  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  the  thirty-fourth,  thirty-fifth  and  thirty-
sixth  ordinary  sessions  of  the  Council,  as  well  as 
resolutions,  decisions  and  President’s  statements  that 
are relevant to the discussion.
Kuwait is mindful of the challenges that are being 
encountered  by  the  United  Nations  and  its  bodies,  in 
particular  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights, in the area of promoting and protecting human 
rights. These bodies are working so that all peoples of 
the  world  may  enjoy  human  rights  pursuant  to,  first, 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, in particular, paragraph 3 of Article 1 
thereof, which sets forth as one of the main purposes 
of  the  United  Nations  to  “promot[e]  and  encourag[e] 
respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms 
for  all  without  distinction  as  to  race,  sex,  language, 
or  religion”;  secondly,  States’  commitments  under 
international law; and, thirdly, the aspirations of States 
to create a world where development is sustainable and 
countries are secure, safe and stable.
the 
In  discussing 
importance  of  enhancing 
cooperation  among  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Organization  itself,  including  the 
relevant United Nations human rights bodies, we would 
like  to  review  cooperation  between  Kuwait  and  those 
United Nations bodies. We note the successful visit in 
February of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Human Rights, Mr. Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein. He was made 
aware of national measures that we have taken in favour 
of  human  rights.  In  particular,  he  noted  the  human 
rights law that we adopted on the rights of families and 
minors, as well as other human rights legislation.
Kuwait has also hosted Special Rapporteurs within 
the  context  of  special  procedures  and  mandates.  In 
December  2016  and  September  2017,  we  hosted  the 
Special Rapporteur on trafficking in persons, especially 
women and children. The Working Group on the issue 
of discrimination against women in law also visited. We 
are hoping to host visits from the Special Rapporteur 
on the rights of persons with disabilities and the Special 
Rapporteur  on  adequate  housing  as  a  component  of 
the right to an adequate standard of living, and on the 
right to non-discrimination in this context. We hope to 
receive greater cooperation from the Office of the High 
Commissioner for Human Rights and its staff. We hope 
that  the  international  community  will  provide  greater 
assistance  and  support  to  the  High  Commissioner  in 
this regard, so that our human rights situation may be 
strengthened and become more universally acceptable.
It is unfortunate to see ongoing flagrant violations 
of  human  rights  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  It  is  a 
complex  challenge  that  the  international  community 
must address with wisdom and care. We deeply regret the 
many challenges in our region resulting from numerous 
conflicts that are affecting our brotherly peoples, who 
have been scattered and weakened. We firmly believe 
that  the  ongoing  occupation  of  Palestinian  territories 
by  Israel  is  a  flagrant  violation  of  the  human  rights 
of  the  unarmed  Palestinian  people  and  contravenes 
international  law  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
as well as all relevant Security Council resolutions. We 
also express our regret and concern with respect to the 
violations of the rights of the Rohingya population in 
Myanmar, especially their right to life.
Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
importance of strengthening and protecting respect for 
human  rights.  Peace  is  a  human  right  in  itself.  Since 
human rights are always evolving, we should strive to do 
more to guarantee that they are complied with and that 
people have access to them. Rules and rights, at both 
the national and international levels, need to adapt to 
and remain consistent with a world in constant change.
Ms. Shilo (Israel): Human rights are not reserved 
for  a  select  few.  Human  rights  belong  to  all  humans 
because they are human.
Next year, we will mark the seventieth year since 
the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  which  means  that  it  has  been  70  years  since 
the  world  was  offered  a  chance  for  a  brighter  future, 
based on universally recognized rights. Next year also 
marks the seventieth anniversary of the establishment 
of the State of Israel. In 1948, Israel committed itself to 
promoting, protecting and respecting human rights for 
all. It is a commitment that remains central to Israel’s 
democracy  today.  Our  Declaration  of  Independence 
makes the following pledge. Israel will 
“foster  the  development  of  the  country  for 
the  benefit  of  all  its  inhabitants  ...  irrespective  of 
religion, race and sex”.
14/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
Israel  is  committed  to  achieving  gender  equality 
and  empowering  women.  Substantial  Government 
legislation  aims  to  reach  those  goals  by  facilitating 
mobility  for  women  in  the  workplace,  helping  more 
women  in  Israel  become  chief  executive  officers, 
diplomats,  high-ranking  military  leaders  and  Nobel 
Prize  laureates.  We  are  also  working  hard  to  make  a 
difference  on  a  global  scale.  Earlier  this  year,  Israel 
introduced  the  first-ever  United  Nations  resolution 
adopted by consensus on the prevention and elimination 
of  sexual  harassment  in  the  workplace.  Furthermore, 
civil  society  plays  an  essential  role  in  Israel,  where 
its  vibrant 
is  a  cornerstone  of  our 
nation’s culture.
involvement 
I would be remiss if I did not address the dismal and 
hypocritical  situation  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
Baseless accusations and dozens of biased resolutions of 
the Council under agenda item 7 have become part of a 
global campaign to delegitimize and demonize the State 
of Israel. This must change if we truly want to promote 
and  protect  human  rights.  The  High  Commissioner 
himself  referred  in  early  September  to  the  hypocrisy 
that exists in the work of the Human Rights Council, 
when  he  said  that  “selectivity  becomes  a  poison  that 
eats away at the credibility of this body”.
Israel has reiterated that fact time and time again. 
However,  agenda  item  7  remains  and,  with  it,  the 
singling  out  of  one  State  —  the  State  of  Israel.  And 
while  this  happens,  the  world’s  worst  human  rights 
violators  avoid  scrutiny.  Some  of  them  are  even 
members  of  the  Council  and  are  therefore  entrusted 
with the protection of human rights for the entire world. 
Israel has called, still calls and will continue to call for 
reform of the Human Rights Council that finally erases 
the discriminatory practices targeting our country.
When  Mr.  Elie  Wiesel  accepted  his  Nobel  Peace 
Prize, he noted that human rights were being violated 
on every continent and that there were more oppressed 
people  in  the  world  than  there  were  free  people.  He 
simply  asked  how  one  could  not  be  sensitive  to  their 
plight. We must ask ourselves a similar question. What 
are we doing to promote, protect and respect the human 
rights of all people? It will take our combined efforts to 
fulfil the noble aspirations of the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights. The struggle for human rights is an 
ongoing battle, and it is a battle that we must win.
Ms.  Velichko  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  As  a 
founding State Member of the United Nations, Belarus 
has  always  been  and  will  remain  an  ethical  and 
responsible participant in discharging its international 
commitments,  including  in  the  field  of  human  rights. 
The establishment of the Human Rights Council is an 
important historical chapter in the work of the United 
Nations. The Council has been in existence for 11 years, 
which is enough time to allow us to draw conclusions 
about  the  work  it  has  accomplished.  Undoubtedly,  a 
significant achievement of the Council is the Universal 
Periodic  Review  (UPR),  which  plays  the  role  of  an 
impartial monitoring mechanism on the human rights 
situation in all countries, without exception. It is through 
the UPR that we designed the dialogue with States.
At the same time, the Human Rights Council has 
been unable to rid itself of the flaws of the Commission 
on Human Rights, which it replaced. Unfortunately, the 
Human Rights Council has been constantly burdening 
its  agenda  with  confrontational  decisions  related  to 
politicized  approaches  to  human  rights.  An  example 
of  this  would  be,  most  of  all,  the  country-specific 
resolutions,  whose  selectivity  and  political  motives 
destroy  the  basic  principles  under  which  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  entire  United  Nations  should 
be operating.
We  cannot  help  but  be  concerned  at  the  fact  that 
Member  States  do  not  seek  to  negotiate  or  reach 
consensus  when  making  decisions  in  the  Human 
Rights  Council.  As  a  result,  a  significant  number  of 
Council resolutions are adopted by vote, and many of 
the decisions represent a false consensus, since States 
subsequently  dissociate 
themselves  from  adopted 
decisions. These decisions then cause disputes among 
Member  States  in  the  General  Assembly.  For  some 
reason, it seems better to allocate considerable resources 
from  the  United  Nations  regular  budget,  which  is 
derived from mandatory contributions from all States 
Members of the United Nations, to the implementation 
of non-consensual decisions than to support decisions 
aimed  at  addressing  the  real  needs  of  States,  which 
calls into question the legitimacy of the financing for 
these decisions.
We  should  take  note  of  one  more  alarming  trend 
that is increasing the costs of the Council’s activities. 
This  year’s  report  of  the  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  (A/72/53)  demonstrates  an  ongoing  trend 
towards  increasing  its  workload  in  relation  to  the 
implementation of resolutions and decisions adopted by 
the Council. We consider it unacceptable to expand the 
agenda of the Human Rights Council. In this context, 
17-36003
15/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
we  have  seen  some  inappropriate  ideas  emerging  on 
extending  the  duration  of  the  Council’s  sessions.  We 
suggest,  in  contrast,  that  the  Council  take  a  serious 
look  at  this  approach  to  the  work  and  refrain  from 
duplicating the decisions of the General Assembly and 
promoting divisive resolutions.
We would like to emphasize that until States stop 
manipulating human rights for their political and narrow 
national interests, the Human Rights Council will not 
be  able  to  have  a  constructive  impact  on  real  human 
rights  situations  on  the  ground.  Instead  of  pursuing 
ineffective and costly country-specific procedures and
commissions  of  inquiry,  the  Human  Rights  Council 
should  encourage  the  cooperation  of  States  with  all 
relevant  United  Nations  bodies  in  the  field  of  human 
rights.  An  increasing  number  of  States  are  following 
the  example  of  Belarus  by  adopting  comprehensive 
plans  aimed  at  implementing  the  recommendations 
of  the  UPR  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Such 
practices  should  be  adhered  to  and  encouraged  in  all 
countries,  without  exception,  regardless  of  their  level 
of development or human rights situation.
Mr. Sukhee (Mongolia): At the outset, I would like 
to express our sincere appreciation to the President of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  his  leadership  and  for 
presenting the report of the Council (A/72/53) today.
Mongolia commends the outcomes of the Council’s 
work in the areas of the human rights of women, children 
and persons with disabilities, the abolition of the death 
penalty,  trafficking  in  humans,  racial  discrimination, 
freedom  of  expression  and  peaceful  assembly  and 
association,  and  human  rights  defenders,  all  of  which 
reflect  the  priorities  set  out  in  our  voluntary  pledges. 
During the reporting period, the Human Rights Council 
has  made  important  strides,  including  in  the  creation 
of the mandates of the Special Rapporteur on the right 
to development.
Human  rights  are  vital  for  ensuring  peace  and 
security.  In  this  regard,  the  role  of  the  Council 
is  particularly  critical 
in  conflict-affected  areas 
where  situations  of  human  rights  and  freedoms  have 
deteriorated and where there have been serious violations 
of the norms of international human rights law.
As Mongolia is currently serving the second year 
of  its  membership  of  the  Council,  it  is  committed  to 
continuing to contribute to the full implementation of its 
mandate. One of the major achievements of the Human 
Rights  Council  is  indisputably  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  (UPR),  which  is  an  effective  mechanism  for 
assessing  the  human  rights  situations  of  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  We  commend  the 
successful conclusion of the second cycle of the UPR. 
With respect to its third cycle, we align ourselves with 
many other Member States in the belief that it should 
focus  more  on  implementing  the  recommendations  of 
the  previous  cycles.  Accordingly,  technical  assistance 
and capacity-building are vital.
We also consider the special-procedures mandate-
holders  as  an  integral  part  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  fully  acknowledge  their  contribution  to 
the  effective  promotion  and  protection  of  the  human 
rights  of  all  persons.  In  September  2017,  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  human  rights  and  the  environment, 
dedicated  to  monitoring  compliance  with  obligations 
relating to the enjoyment of a safe, clean, healthy and 
sustainable environment, visited Mongolia, as did the 
United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture 
and  other  Cruel,  Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment 
or Punishment.
In  our  view,  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  needs  greater 
financial  and  human  resources  so  as  to  be  able  to 
respond  to  and  address  human  rights  violations  and 
facilitate  capacity-building  for  Member  States.  There 
should also be more resources available for the effective 
implementation  of  the  relevant  recommendations.  We 
believe that the Council needs to step up its action on 
the  correlation  between  business  and  human  rights, 
although this issue has only recently come to the fore 
of the global human rights agenda. The Human Rights 
Council should give greater attention to the situations 
where  human 
jeopardized 
within  or  by  private  business  entities.  In  this  sense, 
Member  States  should  constructively  enhance  their 
partnership  and  engagement  with  the  private  sector. 
As  for  the  Government  of  Mongolia,  we  have  shown 
our commitment by inviting a member of the Working 
Group on the issue of human rights and transnational 
corporations and other business enterprises to visit our 
country in 2012.
rights  are 
seriously 
We would also take this opportunity to commend the 
initiative of and work undertaken by the President of the 
Council to move the discussion with Council members 
forward  with  an  view  to  improving  the  Council’s 
working methods and enhancing its overall efficiency. 
Indeed, we believe that the Council’s efficiency could 
be further improved. Mongolia stands ready to offer its 
16/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
support for initiatives aimed at improving the working 
methods of the Council in a manner that is beneficial to 
all States and other stakeholders.
Mr. Hassani Nejad Pirkouhi (Islamic Republic of 
Iran): The Islamic Republic of Iran has taken note of the 
report of the Human Rights Council (A/72/53), and the 
statement made by Mr. Maza Martelli, President of the 
Human Rights Council, for which we thank him.
Iran  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  work  of  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
and  his  Office  in  fulfilling  the  mandate  set  forth  in 
resolution 48/141. Iran also wishes to reiterate its firm 
commitment  to  an  open,  inclusive  and  constructive 
dialogue  among  Member  States  on  all  human  rights 
issues in the framework of the Human Rights Council 
and its founding resolution 60/251.
Unfortunately,  the  Council  has  yet  to  be  fully 
utilized  as  a  medium  for  dialogue  and  cooperation. 
Rather,  in  many  instances,  the  Council  has  been 
exploited for mere political purposes through the use of 
confrontational and selective approaches. Politicization 
and  manipulation  have  increased  mistrust  and  eroded 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Council  and  its  Universal 
Periodic Review (UPR) mechanism.
The  rationale  behind  the  UPR  mechanism  was  to 
ensure  universality,  objectivity,  non-selectivity  and 
impartiality in the work of the Council. It is therefore 
unfortunate  that  a  few  countries  still  prefer  to  revert 
to  the  dysfunctional  practice  of  the  Commission  on 
Human  Rights  and  table  country-specific  resolutions 
that have no value and encourage confrontation rather 
than cooperation in the Council. Accordingly, it should 
not  come  as  a  surprise  that  the  Council  is  finding 
itself  on  the  same  path  that  led  to  the  demise  of  the 
Commission on Human Rights.
The  report  of  the  Council  includes,  as  a  product 
of  the  unconstructive  attempts  of  a  few  countries,  a 
reference to a resolution that was adopted against my 
country. Bearing in mind all the facts on the ground, 
as  well  as  the  continuous  cooperation  of  my  country 
with  various  human  rights  mechanisms,  in  particular 
the  UPR,  the  resolution,  its  ensuing  reports  and  the 
appointment of the Special Rapporteur on the situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  are 
definitely  misplaced,  unwarranted  and  objectionable. 
The  resolution  is  one  of  those  instances  that  exposes 
the  shortcomings  of  the  Council  and  is  nothing  but 
a  waste  of  limited  resources  that  otherwise  could  be 
utilized  for  the  meaningful  promotion  and  protection 
of human rights.
Accordingly, the Islamic Republic of Iran dissociates 
itself from the part of the Human Rights Council’s report 
that  includes  the  so-called  resolution  on  the  situation 
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran. In the 
meantime,  we  also  reiterate  our  principled  position 
of  non-recognition  of  and  non-cooperation  with  the 
mandates that are created by the Council outside of the 
sphere of internationally recognized human rights.
In conclusion, the Islamic Republic of Iran would 
like  to  underscore  the  important  role  of  the  Human 
Rights Council in confronting and addressing vicious 
waves  of  racism,  bigotry,  violent  extremism  and 
terrorism. The Human Rights Council has a role to play 
in  raising  global  awareness  of  the  imminent  threat  of 
terrorism and the mindsets behind it. The world should 
be warned of the speedy mobility of the evil forces of 
violent extremism and terrorism, and, more importantly, 
supporters  of  these  menaces,  including  the  Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant, should be cautioned that 
the boomerang they have thrown at others will sooner 
or later hit them when it returns.
Mr.  Lukiantsev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in  Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  is  of  the  view 
that  the  Human  Rights  Council  should  scrupulously 
follow 
the 
principles  of  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity 
and  non-selectivity  in  its  work  so  as  to  promote  and 
defend human rights and fundamental freedoms for all 
without distinction.
the  norms  of 
international 
law  and 
We  must  note  that  in  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  politicization  and  confrontation  are 
gaining steam. The Council is steadily evolving from 
an  international  platform  for  conducting  mutually 
respectful  dialogue  on  current  human  rights  issues 
into an arena for some countries to settle their political 
scores.  This  alarming  trend  is  expressed  not  only  in 
increased  attention  to  country-specific  topics  but  in 
increasingly  polarized  discussions  on  agenda  items 
that used to be carried out in a constructive and neutral 
manner. Even the thematic agenda items of the Council 
are  increasingly  being  used  by  countries  to  make 
politically motivated demands of one another.
The  Russian  position  remains  unchanged.  There 
are  no  countries  in  the  world  free  of  human  rights 
violations. In this regard, we believe that it is completely 
unacceptable  for  States  to  have  policies  that  include 
17-36003
17/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
mentoring,  defaming  or  labelling,  although  many 
States do. They discredit the very idea of cooperation 
to  promote  and  protect  human  rights  and  the  work 
of  United  Nations  human  rights  bodies.  Nor  is  the 
Council’s effectiveness increased when the work of its 
special procedures regularly not only exceeds mandates 
and duplicates each other’s work but also suffers from 
a  high  degree  of  political  bias,  thus  contradicting  the 
code of conduct of the special procedures.
It 
Unfortunately, the seemingly most neutral agenda 
item  of  the  Council  —  agenda  item  10,  on  technical 
assistance  and  capacity-building  —  has  not  avoided 
politicization.  The  desire  of  some  States  with  respect 
to that agenda item is to achieve their own short-term 
political  objectives  having  to  do,  in  particular,  with 
defining  the  national  legal  status  of  territories.  This 
undermines the major principles of technical assistance 
for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights: 
non-confrontation  and  depoliticization. 
inserts 
an  added  element  of  division  into  the  work  of  the 
Council. In this context, we confirm our position that 
is unacceptable to use the United Nations human rights 
bodies to raise issues outside these bodies’ jurisdiction.
We cannot agree with the approach of a number of 
countries linking the provision of technical assistance 
to States with the prevention of human rights violations. 
In our view, it is the practical assistance to States and 
helping  them  to  build  their  institutional  capacity-
building  for  human  rights  that  would  be  a  major  tool 
for prevention of these very violations. The initiatives 
of  some  States  to  attempt  to  give  functions  outside 
the  Council  to  the  Council  to  review  principles  and 
methods  of  work,  establish  new  institutional  formats 
and  erode  the  intergovernmental  nature  of  this  body, 
have a destructive impact on the Council’s operations. 
The parameters of the work of the Council are set forth 
in resolution 60/251, and any changes to the work of the 
Council  should  be  discussed  in  an  intergovernmental 
format and adopted on the basis of a broad consensus.
Dialogue in the Council will also be stunted if we 
impose aggressive standards characteristic of one group 
of countries on all others as if they represented a global 
standard,  or  if  we  enshrine  narrow  interpretations 
of  international  human  rights  norms  as  if  they  were 
universal norms. We are convinced that such gambits 
will  only  increase  politicization  and  confrontation 
in  the  work  of  the  Council  and  other  United  Nations 
human rights bodies.
Past sessions have shown that the Council continues 
to  intrude  on  the  jurisdiction  of  other  United  Nations 
bodies. We call for maintaining the division of labour 
of  the  United  Nations  bodies  and  mechanisms,  as 
set  forth  by  the  Charter.  We  are  of  the  view  that  the 
integration  of  human  rights  issues  into  all  spheres  of 
the work of the United Nations must have its limits and 
should not lead to a duplication of the work of United 
Nations agencies and bodies.
We  are  convinced  that  the  major  principle  of  the 
work of the Council and, in fact, of the entire United 
Nations  human  rights  apparatus  should  be  equal 
cooperation  based  on  respect  for  sovereignty  and  the 
sovereign equality of States in strict compliance with 
procedural norms. We call on all countries to follow this 
principle and refrain from the use of double standards 
and their own narrow political concerns. Only then can 
we counteract further politicization and confrontation 
in the work of the Human Rights Council.
Mrs.  Martinic  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina  wishes  to  warmly  thank  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Maza  Martelli,  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  for  being  with  us  today  in  the  General 
Assembly  and  welcomes  his  report  (A/72/53)  on  the 
activities of the Council over the past year.
First  of  all,  Argentina  believes  that  seamless 
coordination between New York and Geneva is relevant 
for the human rights agenda, which is why we welcome 
the opportunity to address the recent work of the Human 
Rights Council in the General Assembly. Argentina has 
always been, and will continue to be, a strong advocate 
for  the  independence,  work  and  achievements  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  in  the  promotion,  respect  and 
protection of human rights. We firmly believe that the 
Council should stand on an equal footing with the main 
organs of the United Nations.
Argentina  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
emphasize  the  role  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
raising  the  profile  of  human  rights  throughout  the 
world. The creation of the Council has made it possible 
to  increase  dialogue  and  the  different  channels  of 
cooperation among States in the promotion of universal 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
for all persons, with their consequent contributions to 
development and international peace and security.
In  addition,  Argentina  is  pleased  with  the  recent 
renewal  of  the  mandate  of  the  Working  Group  on 
through 
Enforced  or  Involuntary  Disappearances 
18/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
Council resolution 36/6, of 28 September 2017. In this 
regard,  Argentina  calls  on  all  States  to  strengthen 
cooperation  with  the  special  procedures  and  treaty 
bodies  of 
requests, 
presenting  outstanding  reports  and  ensuring 
that 
standing invitations are issued.
the  Council,  answering  all 
authorized  by  the  General  Assembly.  Its  primordial 
task is reflected not just in the diversity of the Council’s 
agenda, but also in its resolutions, the full participation 
of Member States in the Universal Periodic Review and 
the broad participation and involvement of civil society 
in all discussions in Geneva.
In  that  regard,  in  the  past  year  Argentina  hosted 
the  Special  Rapporteur  on  violence  against  women, 
the Independent Expert on protection against violence 
and  discrimination  based  on  sexual  orientation  and 
gender  identity,  and  the  Working  Group  on  Arbitrary 
Detention.  Next  year,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  the  right  to  freedom  of 
opinion and expression, the Special Rapporteur on the 
Right  to  Food  and  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  torture 
and  other  cruel,  inhuman  or  degrading  treatment  or 
punishment will visit Argentina.
Without  respect  for  the  existing  institutions  and 
mandates of United Nations organs, it will be extremely 
hard to meet the expectations of our peoples in terms 
of ensuring the defence and protection of human rights. 
Therefore, all Member States must undertake to respect 
the  independence  and  integrity  of  the  mandate  of  the 
Human Rights Council, in accordance with resolution 
60/251 and other relevant resolutions.
Finally, Argentina would like to welcome the newly 
elected countries to the Council, and we reiterate our 
unwavering commitment to defending the independence 
and work of the Human Rights Council.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We welcome the presence today of Ambassador 
Joaquín Maza Martelli, President of the Human Rights 
Council — a proud Salvadoran and a personal mentor 
of mine — and thank him for his briefing. We commend 
him on his hard work this year at the helm of such an 
important  intergovernmental  forum.  We  welcome  the 
report (A/72/53), which we trust will be adopted in its 
entirety in due course by the General Assembly.
The Human Rights Council, which is a subsidiary 
organ  of  the  General  Assembly,  is  the  principal 
intergovernmental  body  of 
the  United  Nations 
responsible  for  ensuring  human  rights,  with  its  own 
jurisdiction over debates on all thematic issues related 
to  human  rights.  In  this  regard,  we  wish  to  reiterate 
that in both this plenary and the Third Committee, the 
procedures, mechanisms, structures and competencies 
that  form  the  basis  of  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
work must be respected, given that they have all been 
For  El  Salvador,  as  an  active  member  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  since  2015,  when  we  began 
our first term as a member of the Council, the respect 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  is  a  State  policy  and 
a  fundamental  pillar  of  Salvadoran  foreign  policy.  In 
recent years, we have made major progress in this field 
with  processes  that  promote  respect  for  the  human 
person as such. Similarly, we have become engaged in 
international processes whereby we have become aware 
of  the  importance  of  organizing  and  promoting  the 
full enjoyment of rights. My delegation has addressed 
these  issues  and  detailed  some  of  our  experiences 
within  each  of  the  substantive  agenda  items,  both  in 
the  Third  Committee  in  New  York  and  in  Council 
sessions in Geneva, where we have participated in our 
national capacity.
We  therefore  wish  to  reaffirm  that  El  Salvador  is 
committed  to  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights 
for  everyone  without  discriminating  against  anyone. 
We  commend  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  work  done  by  the  Council  this  year 
and  once  again  welcome  him  in  New  York  on  this 
auspicious occasion.
Mr. Mohamed (Maldives): I would like to begin by 
thanking His Excellency Mr. Joaquín Alexander Maza 
Martelli of El Salvador, President of the Human Rights 
Council  during  its  eleventh  cycle,  for  the  exemplary 
manner in which he and his Bureau have steered the work 
of the Council this year. I also express my appreciation 
to His Excellency Mr. Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  and 
his Office, for their continued efforts to constructively 
engage with all nations in the promotion and protection 
of human rights across the globe.
The  Human  Rights  Council  is  the  institutional 
expression of the international community’s commitment 
to  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  all.  When  establishing 
the  Council  in  2006,  the  General  Assembly  made  it 
extremely clear, in resolution 60/251, that the Council’s 
work should be “guided by the principles of universality, 
objectivity  and  non-selectivity”.  The  Assembly  also 
17-36003
19/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
mandated  the  Council  to  provide  advisory  services, 
technical  assistance  and  capacity-building  to  States 
“in consultation with and with the consent of Member 
States concerned”. Eleven years later, there is a profound 
need for the Council to return to its roots and undertake 
its  work  in  an  impartial,  objective  and  non-selective 
manner,  reflect  its  intergovernmental  character  and 
ensure its credibility.
It is that credibility that will enable the Council to 
inspire  international  actions  in  support  of  protecting 
the human rights of millions of Syrians who have been 
besieged, displaced and deprived of their basic right to 
life and liberty. My delegation condemns not only the 
gross human rights abuses in Syria, but the international 
community’s acceptance of them. We seem to remain 
complacent when warring parties attack humanitarian 
targets,  including  hospitals,  schools,  utilities  and  aid 
workers;  where  the  use  of  chemical  weapons  is  now 
well  documented;  where  terrorists  target  minorities 
and the most vulnerable segments of a population; and 
when all this happens with complete impunity.
The  Human  Rights  Council  can  also  inspire 
international  actions  to  stop  the  deteriorating  human 
rights and humanitarian crisis in the State of Palestine. 
That  crisis  emerged  solely  as  a  result  of  the  illegal 
and prolonged occupation by Israel, which, as of next 
year,  will  mark  its  seventieth  anniversary  and  which 
has  denied  generations  of  Palestinians  many  of  their 
fundamental rights.
Another human rights and humanitarian crisis that 
has not received an adequate response from the Council 
is  the  situation  facing  the  Rohingya  community  in 
Myanmar.  The  minority  Muslim  population  is  facing 
gross and systematic violations of its rights, in which 
gang  rape,  mass  killings  and  the  burning  of  homes, 
schools,  markets,  shops  and  mosques  has  become 
commonplace. The renewal of the fact-finding mission 
on  Myanmar  by  the  Council  is  a  step  in  the  right 
direction, but that is not enough. The Maldives supports 
the call for the urgent convening of a special session of 
the Human Rights Council with the aim of adopting a 
substantive and clear outcome resolution on ending any 
further atrocities.
The  Human  Rights  Council  will  enjoy  a  greater 
level  of  support  and  cooperation  from  the  broader 
United Nations membership when the Council is seen 
to be more inclusive in its working methods and when 
the universality principle is applied in good faith. The 
working methods of the Council today are more opaque 
and less inclusive than those of the General Assembly. 
As  a  result,  representatives  who  attend  only  a  single 
session find themselves at a severe disadvantage, as is 
the  case  with  many  representatives  from  small  island 
developing  States.  For  instance,  inadequate  time  is 
provided for informal consultations on most resolutions, 
and input by non-member States at informal negotiations 
is often ignored, partially owing to the disproportionate 
deference afforded States members of the Council.
The  Maldives  has  called  for  the  introduction  of 
specific  practical  measures  to  improve  the  working 
methods of the Council, including ensuring that draft 
resolutions are circulated before sessions begin and that 
the compilation and circulation of all comments made 
in informal consultations is done in a timely manner, as 
well as ensuring that every State has the opportunity to 
comment on the potential effects of any draft resolution 
prior to its adoption.
The  Maldives  has  had  the  privilege  of  serving 
on  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  two  consecutive 
terms. We are proud of the contributions that we have 
made to the Council’s work and the outcomes that we 
have  facilitated.  The  Maldives  introduced  the  idea  of 
examining  the  human  rights  dimensions  of  climate 
change  and  led  the  Council’s  efforts  that  resulted  in 
the  establishment  of  a  mandate  on  human  rights  and 
the environment. The Maldives also had the privilege 
to  introduce,  with  the  support  of  core  groups,  draft 
resolutions on parliaments as promoters of human rights, 
on the independence of the judiciary, on child and forced 
marriages, on the freedom of assembly and association, 
and on prevention, as well as on the establishment of and 
support  for  the  Voluntary  Technical  Assistance  Trust 
Fund to Support the Participation of Least Developed 
Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing  States  in  the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The  mandate  of 
the Special Rapporteur on international justice is also 
an  initiative  that  we  supported.  The  Maldives  is  also 
pleased to be coordinating the work of the Asia-Pacific 
Group in the Council in 2017.
The Maldives remains committed to strengthening 
the Council, its working methods and its ability to work 
with the Governments of Member States in responding 
to and promoting human rights around the world. The 
Maldives will always be a committed and enthusiastic 
partner  in  efforts  to  craft  shared  solutions  for  our 
shared destiny.
20/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
Ms. Agladze (Georgia): I thank the President of the 
Human Rights Council for presenting his comprehensive 
report  (A/72/53).  Georgia  reaffirms  its  full  support 
for the Human Rights Council and its mechanisms as 
important instruments in efforts to promote universal 
respect for the protection of all human rights. During the 
past decade, the Human Rights Council has become the 
main body for mobilizing the international community 
to address and respond to gross human rights violations 
and abuses worldwide.
the  General  Assembly 
We also welcomed the high-level event on Human 
Rights Council reform, which was held at the current 
session  of 
in  September. 
Considering  the  critical  humanitarian  situation  in 
many  parts  of  the  world,  we  deem  it  important  to 
seek  opportunities  to  reinforce  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Council  based  upon  lessons  learned.  In  our  view, 
the  effective  work  of  the  Council  strongly  depends 
on  universal  participation.  The  voice  of  each  State 
Member of the United Nations, irrespective of its size, 
population or strength, must be heard.
With  that  in  mind,  Georgia  has  become  the  first 
Eastern European State to contribute to the Voluntary 
Technical  Assistance  Trust  Fund  to  Support  the 
Participation of Least Developed Countries and Small 
Island  Developing  States  in  the  work  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  which  supports  the  participation  of 
small-country  delegations  in  the  Council’s  work. 
Georgia  would  like  to  express  its  sincere  gratitude  to 
the  past  and  current  Bureaus  of  the  Council  for  their 
efforts to improve the working methods of the Council 
and to manage its meetings. We believe, however, that 
additional  measures  need  to  be  undertaken  to  that 
end,  leading  to  further  constructive  engagement  in 
that process.
Over  the  years,  the  Human  Rights  Council  has 
adopted a number of important thematic and country-
specific  resolutions.  In  that  regard,  let  me  underline 
the  resolution  on  cooperation  with  Georgia,  adopted 
during the thirty-fourth session of the Council, which 
calls for immediate access to the Office of the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and 
international  and  regional  human  rights  mechanisms 
for  the  occupied  regions  of  Georgia.  Pursuant  to  the 
resolution, the Council considered the issue of Georgia 
at its thirty-fifth and thirty-sixth sessions. Regrettably, 
no access had been granted at that time to the Office 
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human 
Rights  or  to  other  United  Nations  human  rights 
mechanisms. However, the report presented by the High 
Commissioner  during  the  thirty-sixth  session  of  the 
Council  reflected  the  serious  human  rights  violations 
that have been occurring in the occupied territories.
We  underline  the  importance  of  the  Universal 
Periodic Review (UPR) as a key element of the Human 
Rights  Council’s  efforts  to  assess  the  human  rights 
situation  in  every  country.  Georgia  has  incorporated 
the  recommendations  received  during  the  UPR  into 
its  national  action  plans  on  human  rights.  It  is  of  the 
utmost  importance  that  all  Member  States  engaged 
in  the  UPR  process  adhere  to  the  accepted  rules  and 
regulations.  Georgia  attaches  particular  importance 
to the recommendations of the United Nations human 
rights system and supports steps towards enabling the 
mechanisms to monitor the level of the implementation 
of accepted UPR recommendations by Member States.
At  the  national  level,  Georgia  has  established  an 
institution  that  is  mandated  to  track  and  coordinate 
national 
the 
aforementioned  obligations  and  recommendations.  It 
is noteworthy that this year Georgia joined the Group 
of  Friends  on  national  implementation,  reporting  and 
follow-up  within  the  Human  Rights  Council,  which 
seeks  to  take  the  implementation  agenda  forward.  In 
our  view,  effective  domestic  implementation  is  the 
key  to  advancing  human  rights  on  the  ground.  The 
implementation  gap  remains  an  important  issue  with 
regard to Human Rights Council resolutions, and more 
attention needs to be paid to implementation aspects by 
Member States.
implementation  of 
follow-up  and 
is 
important 
We  highly  value  the  effective  participation  of 
civil-society representatives in the work of the Human 
Rights  Council.  Further  strengthening  the  role  of 
non-governmental  organizations 
for 
safeguarding  the  space  allotted  to  civil  society  and 
ensuring  that  their  voices  are  heard.  In  that  context, 
Georgia  strongly  rejects  any  act  of  intimidation  or 
reprisal  directed  against  individuals  and  groups  that 
cooperate or have cooperated with the United Nations, 
its  representatives  and  mechanisms.  In  the  area  of 
human  rights,  it  is  our  duty  to  prevent  and  ensure 
adequate protection against such acts.
As  we  discuss  the  importance  of  human  rights 
mechanisms, I would like to underline Georgia’s support 
for  the  special  procedures,  which  represent  another 
effective  tool  for  addressing  specific  country  and 
thematic  situations.  Georgia  has  extended  a  standing 
17-36003
21/23
A/72/PV.40 
02/11/2017
invitation  to  all  special-procedures  mandate-holders 
and has hosted several visits by United Nations Special 
Rapporteurs, including the Special Rapporteur on the 
human  rights  of  internally  displaced  persons  and  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  violence  against  women,  its 
causes and consequences.
In conclusion, let me once again reiterate Georgia’s 
strong  commitment 
international 
community  in  strengthening  and  promoting  human 
rights throughout the world.
joining 
the 
to 
Ms. Valiente Díaz (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): The 
Human  Rights  Council  was  established  as  a  result  of 
the need to address the double standards, confrontation 
and political manipulation that characterized the now-
defunct Commission on Human Rights. Those practices, 
which  discredited  the  Commission  —  and  which  we 
reject  in  the  strongest  terms  —  must  be  avoided.  We 
reiterate  our  concern  about  the  tendency  to  impose 
selectivity  and  double  standards  in  the  Council  when 
considering human rights situations, as reflected in the 
report of the Human Rights Council (A/72/53). Political 
manipulation must cease when the Council deals with 
country situations. Cooperation and respectful dialogue 
should guide the work of the Council.
Cuba reaffirms that the Universal Periodic Review 
was established as the only universal mechanism for the 
comprehensive analysis of the human rights situations 
in  all  countries.  It  is  the  Council’s  main  distinctive 
element  compared  to  the  previous  Commission  on 
Human  Rights.  The  mechanism  has  proven  to  be  a 
means  for  international  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
human  rights,  based  on  constructive  dialogue  and 
respect  for  the  principles  of  universality,  objectivity, 
impartiality  and  non-selectivity.  Those  principles 
must  also  be  respected  by  the  special  procedures 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  human  rights 
treaty  bodies.  The 
special-procedures  mandate 
holders must also observe the code of conduct adopted 
during  the  institution-building  process  of  the  Human 
Rights Council.
Cuba believes that as long as an unjust and exclusive 
international  economic  and  political  order  persists, 
the  Council  must  continue  to  speak  out  in  favour  of 
a democratic and equitable international order. For as 
long as unilateral coercive measures are imposed and 
blockades are maintained — such as the one that Cuba 
has suffered for more than 55 years — the Council must 
reject those practices and demand that they be ended. 
The Council must ensure that the claim to the right to 
international  solidarity  becomes  an  imperative  if  we 
wish  to  confront  the  serious  challenges  posed  by  the 
deep  economic,  financial,  energy,  environmental  and 
food crises that affect the whole world today.
We  regret  that,  at  the  previous  session  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  resolutions  that  have  enjoyed 
the  consensus  of  the  Member  States  for  several  years 
had  to  be  adopted  by  vote,  such  as  the  right  to  food. 
At this session of the General Assembly, my delegation 
will  again  submit  a  draft  resolution  on  that  topic  in 
the  hope  that  such  an  important  initiative  will  enjoy 
the  constructive  support  of  all  delegations  so  that 
we  can  send  a  clear  message  of  consensus  on  such  a 
crucial issue.
Cuba will continue to work on promoting the rights 
of peoples to self-determination, peace and development 
and the right to food, the establishment of a democratic 
and  equitable  international  order,  the  fight  against 
racism, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination, the 
realization of cultural rights and respect for diversity. 
Cuba  affirms  its  firm  commitment  to  promoting  and 
respecting all human rights for everyone.
Ms.  Wagner  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  his  report  (A/72/53). 
Switzerland  is  pleased  that  the  opportunity  was 
taken  this  year  to  formulate  specific  proposals  for 
strengthening  the  impact  and  contribution  of  the 
Human Rights Council to the protection and promotion 
of the respect for human rights around the world. Those 
proposals have served as a basis for identifying priority 
courses of action that now need to be implemented so 
as to strengthen the human rights pillar at the United 
Nations  as  a  whole.  Switzerland  will  continue  its 
engagement in that respect.
that 
firmly  believes 
First,  Switzerland 
the 
international  community’s  success  in  protecting  and 
promoting  respect  for  human  rights  depends  on  the 
better  integration  of  human  rights  into  the  United 
Nations  global  agenda.  The  relationship  between 
human  rights  and  peace  and  security  is  worthy  of 
special  attention,  particularly  in  view  of  its  potential 
for  conflict  prevention.  It  was  with  that  in  mind  that 
Switzerland  and  other  Member  States  launched  an 
appeal  on  13  June  to  put  human  rights  at  the  heart 
of  Member  States’  efforts  in  conflict  prevention 
and,  in  particular,  to  enhance  the  exchange  of  useful 
22/23 
17-36003
02/11/2017 
A/72/PV.40
information  between  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  Security  Council.  Switzerland  invites  all  Member 
States to join the 71 countries that have already offered 
their support to that appeal and to commit to putting it 
into action.
Secondly, I wish to comment on the space granted to 
civil society, where we are seeing increasingly serious 
violations  and  abuses  of  the  rights  to  the  freedom  of 
expression and the freedom of peaceful assembly and 
association.  Civil  society  plays  a  fundamental  role  in 
United  Nations  mechanisms.  The  greater  inclusion 
and protection of civil society therefore represents an 
investment in strengthening the impact, efficiency and 
credibility of the Human Rights Council.
In  that  regard,  Switzerland  is  concerned  about 
numerous  cases  of  intimidation  and  reprisals  against 
human  rights  defenders  and  other  members  of  civil 
society  while  they  exercise  their  fundamental  rights 
by providing first-hand information to representatives 
of United Nations mechanisms. Switzerland wishes to 
thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  for 
his commitment to follow up on such cases and urges 
the  international  community  to  reverse  that  negative 
trend and take further action to protect those defending 
human  rights  —  especially  those  who  cooperate  with 
the Council and its mechanisms.
Switzerland feels that the increase in the Council’s 
workload  confirms  the  relevance  of  its  mandate,  but 
does  not  believe  that  that  workload  is  sustainable 
in  the  medium  term.  Further  reflection  is  needed  on 
optimizing  working  methods  and  implementing  the 
relevant  proposals  already  on  the  table.  At  the  same 
time, we believe that it is essential to work on improving 
the  atmosphere  at  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
avoid a climate of confrontation. Switzerland calls on 
all  Member  States  to  work  constructively  on  Council 
matters so as to enhance its credibility and efficiency.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I 
take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to conclude its 
consideration of agenda item 67?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m.
17-36003
23/23
