United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
20th plenary meeting
Saturday, 23 September 2017, noon 
New York
A/72/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Nusseibeh 
(United  Arab  Emirates),  Vice-President, 
took 
the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at noon.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Adel Ahmed Al-Jubeir, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Mr.  Al-Jubeir  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At the outset, I would like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák on his election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session  and  to  wish 
him every success. I would also like to thank Mr. Peter 
Thomson, President of the Assembly at its seventy-first 
session, for his efforts throughout his tenure.
I am very pleased to be addressing the Assembly 
today as my country celebrates its national holiday. We 
look to the past with pride and are working ambitiously 
towards  the  future.  Today,  I  am  the  messenger  of  a 
State  that  has  made  its  people  its  top  priority  and 
resolutely set forth on a path to sustainable development 
through  creating  opportunities,  thanks  to  its  fruitful 
partnerships with friends around the world. Under the 
leadership  of  our  King,  we  are  helping  to  establish 
peace and security in the region and around the world.
the  most 
protracted dispute in the modern history of our region 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
The 
is 
and  has  led  to  innumerable  tragedies  and  endless 
human suffering. Nothing can justify its continuation, 
especially  when  there  is  an  international  consensus 
on  the  importance  of  reaching  a  two-State  solution, 
based on internationally recognized resolutions and the 
Arab Peace Initiative, with the goal of establishing an 
independent Palestinian State, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital, within the pre-1967 borders. More than ever 
we need concerted international determination to make 
that solution a reality.
We have been tackling the Houthi-Saleh insurgency 
in Yemen as a coalition in order to help the legitimate 
Government  of  Yemen  save  its  people  and  restore  its 
State  in  line  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  That  was  not  a  choice 
for us in Yemen. We resorted to it only after sustained 
political efforts to maintain Yemen’s safety and stability 
and preserve its territorial integrity and independence. 
We  therefore  affirm  our  full  support  for  the  political 
process in Yemen and will stand by the United Nations 
and its Special Envoy in their efforts to arrive at a political 
solution in line with Security Council resolution 2216 
(2015) and the Gulf Cooperation Council initiative, and 
through national dialogue. We are aware of the extent 
of the humanitarian suffering of our brothers in Yemen 
since the coup d’état and have spared no effort to come 
to  their  aid.  In  fact,  the  assistance  provided  by  the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in recent years now amounts 
to more than $8 billion for every area of humanitarian 
medical and development needs, funnelled through the 
King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29807 (E)
*1729807*
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
My  country  firmly  condemns  and  is  gravely 
concerned  about 
the  Government  of  Myanmar’s 
policy  of  repression  and  forced  displacement  of  the 
Rohingya  minority,  which  runs  counter  to  all  respect 
for  humanitarian  values  and  international  law.  It  is  a 
human  tragedy  that  demands  an  urgent  response  and 
should end immediately, in line with the principles on 
which our Organization was founded. As we urge the 
Government of Myanmar to honour its obligations and 
protect its peoples from discrimination, we continue to 
provide humanitarian assistance to the Rohingya. King 
Salman has provided $15 million to help the displaced, 
in addition to my country’s provision of assistance by 
taking in more than half a million Rohingya refugees. 
His  Majesty  has  also  personally  intervened  with 
neighbouring  States  and  has  been  working  with  the 
Government of Bangladesh to ensure safe passage for 
the refugees and decent living conditions for them in 
the various host countries.
Today our international community is facing one of 
the greatest ever challenges to its security and stability, 
the  threat  of  terrorism,  which  is  striking  all  over  the 
world, in defiance of all human rights and values. My 
country  will  continue  to  work  steadfastly  to  counter 
extremism and terrorism in all their manifestations. The 
Arab-Islamic-American summit was held in Riyadh in 
May with that purpose and affirmed unequivocally the 
importance of pursuing joint efforts to end extremism 
and terrorism by cutting off their sources of financing. 
As it happens, the crisis in Qatar is interfering with our 
policies  designed  to  combat  terrorism  and  extremism 
and cut off their financing.
Meanwhile,  the  Syrian  crisis  is  entering  its  sixth 
year, and the conflict has already claimed hundreds of 
thousands of victims. From the beginning, my country 
has  opened  its  doors  to  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Syrians. In general, the Middle East is going through 
a  period  of  unprecedented  tensions  and  continuing 
crises, in which Iran has played a part.
Turning to the crisis in Qatar, we have continued 
with a firm policy aimed at combating the fostering of 
extremism and terrorism through Doha’s provision of 
financial support to terrorism, as well as helping it to 
disseminate  violent  hate  speech.  Qatar  has  also  been 
providing a safe haven for those who have violated the 
law  and  must  be  brought  to  justice,  thereby  helping 
to  spread  chaos  and  foment  dissension.  Our  group  of 
four  States  has  demanded  firmly  that  Qatar  adhere 
to  the  principles  of  international  law  where  the  fight 
against terrorism is concerned, including by honouring 
its obligations under the 2013 Riyadh Agreement and 
its  complementary  agreement  of  2014,  which  are  all 
legitimate demands.
In its desire to affirm the principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  regarding  the  safeguarding 
of  the  peace  and  security  of  peoples  around  the 
world,  my  country  was  one  of  the  first  to  call  for 
establishing a zone free of nuclear weapons and other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  We 
have  also  demonstrated  the  importance  we  attach  to 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  their  three 
economic, social and environmental pillars through our 
Vision 2030, aimed at enabling our country to achieve 
sustainable,  people-centred  development  in  order  to 
build  a  more  robust  economy.  And  we  have  always 
striven  to  provide  support  to  developing  countries  by 
providing  official  development  assistance  totalling 
0.7 per cent of our gross national income.
In conclusion, I would like to thank those who are 
helping  people  everywhere,  wherever  they  are,  and 
who are working for peace.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Darren  Allen  Henfield,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Immigration  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
the Bahamas.
Mr. Henfield (Bahamas): On behalf of the people 
and  the  Government  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas, I would like to congratulate the President on 
his election to lead the General Assembly at its seventy-
second session and to assure him of my country’s full 
support  and  cooperation  during  his  tenure.  I  would 
also  like  to  sincerely  congratulate  his  predecessor, 
Ambassador Peter Thomson, on his stewardship of the 
Assembly during the seventy-first session.
The Bahamas congratulates Mr. António Guterres 
on his recent appointment as Secretary-General, with 
the daunting task of continuing the implementation of 
the  bold  and  ambitious  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. I commend him for the work he has done 
so  far  in  steering  the  work  of  the  Organization  and 
assure him of the full support of the Bahamas.
Since  29  September  1729,  when  the  first  meeting 
of 
the  Parliament  of 
took  place, 
democratic  values  have  taken  deep  root  throughout 
the  archipelago.  On  10  May  this  year,  the  Bahamas 
conducted  its  eleventh  consecutive  round  of  general 
the  Bahamas 
2/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
elections since our establishment of universal suffrage 
in 1962. The people of the Bahamas, in a free, peaceful 
and democratic process, elected a Government led by 
Mr.  Hubert  Minis.  The  new  Administration  is  made 
up  almost  exclusively  of  new  members,  one  of  them 
as  young  as  21  years  old.  We  promised  our  people 
bold  change  and  we  are  committed  to  fulfilling  that 
promise. We stand on the threshold of advancing a new 
agenda as demanded by our people, one that has at its 
core the protection and promotion of the rights, interest 
and welfare of all Bahamians — women, men, young 
people  and  children.  I  am  therefore  proud  today  to 
make my first address to this organ as the most recently 
appointed  Foreign  Minister  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
the Bahamas under this new administration.
Economies large and small are facing very difficult 
times, where myriad factors challenge our capacity to 
create  an  environment  where  people  can  be  assured 
of  sustainable  livelihoods,  security,  safety  and  a 
promising  future  for  succeeding  generations.  Very 
troubling  are  the  insidious  increase  in  international 
terrorism; unfair practices in the international financial 
sector, such as de-risking and correspondent banking; 
crime;  trafficking  in  persons,  drugs  and  weapons; 
gross  violations  of  human  rights;  and  reprehensible 
corruption by those who have been entrusted to govern.
Of  special  concern  to  small  island  developing 
States  (SIDS)  are 
the  dangers  of  environmental 
degradation  and  climate  change,  which  threaten  our 
very  survivability.  With  what  we  have  witnessed 
just  recently  with  the  passage  of  Hurricanes  Harvey, 
Irma and now Maria, I cannot underscore sufficiently 
the  importance  the  Bahamas  attaches  to  combating 
climate  change  and  the  preservation  and  protection 
of the environment. Even while these hurricanes were 
occurring, earthquakes took place in Mexico, resulting 
in  further  tragic  loss  of  life  and  destruction.  Climate 
change is global. We have expressed before and today 
we reiterate our thoughts and prayers to all adversely 
impacted by these devastating events.
I  need  to  emphasize  that  this  is  the  third  time  in 
three years that the Bahamas has been hit by a major 
hurricane, and Maria is still churning in our territory. 
There  are  two  more  months  before  the  end  of  the 
hurricane  season,  and  we  can  only  pray  that  we  will 
be  spared  further  destruction  and  loss.  Hurricane 
Irma changed course and did not directly hit the entire 
Bahamian archipelago, thereby minimizing the impact 
on our tourism industry. However, we were not entirely 
spared.  Our  southern  islands  experienced  serious 
damage.  Ragged  Island  was  totally  devastated  and  is 
now  uninhabitable.  Additionally,  tornadoes  inflicted 
considerable damage on the northern islands of Bimini 
and Grand Bahama.
We  are  grateful  to  our  international  partners, 
which  provided  immediate  support  after  the  passage 
of  Hurricane  Irma  and  now  continue  to  stand  by  our 
side as we begin the painful and burdensome process 
of restoration and rebuilding. I commend the President 
and  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  the  recent 
high-level  meeting  to  allow  those  of  us  impacted  to 
bring focus on these events to our other partners.
One  of  the  countries  immediately  affected  by 
Hurricane  Irma  was  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  which,  as 
on  previous  occasions,  caused  this  massive  hurricane 
to  lose  some  of  its  energy  and  probably  lessened  its 
impact on our neighbour, the United States of America. 
All  developing  countries  affected  have  been  placed 
on a short list for assistance to shore up their internal 
conditions towards recovery. Cuba does not enjoy this 
capacity to the fullest. The Bahamas joins other nations 
in calling for the United States Congress to reconsider 
the legislative barriers to the biggest of the Caribbean 
islands in order for it to develop to its fullest potential 
as a member of the international community.
It is the intention of the Government, working with 
the  private  sector,  to  create  out  of  the  destruction  of 
Ragged Island the first fully green island in the region, 
utilizing  renewable  energy  and  smart  technologies, 
from  solar  energy  to  sustainable  water-purification 
systems,  to  create  a  more  sustainable  and  resilient 
island community.
The  implications  for  the  existence  of  SIDS  such 
as  the  Bahamas,  as  we  are  confronted  with  global 
warming,  rising  sea-levels,  more  severe  and  frequent 
hurricanes  and  other  extreme  weather  events,  are  all 
too clear. For the first time in its history, the Bahamas 
evacuated whole communities to safe quadrants ahead 
of Hurricane Irma. What happens next — a wholesale 
evacuation  of  the  entire  Caribbean?  I  call  on  the 
international  community  to  recognize  the  imperative 
of  accelerating  efforts  to  deal  urgently  with  the 
adverse  impact  of  climate  change,  and  to  do  so  in  a 
coordinated  way.  Only  then  will  we  mitigate  against 
these  ferocious  and  frequent  destructive  weather 
events,  which  now  potentially  threaten  to  add  to  the 
world’s migration issues.
17-29807
3/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
Well  over  two  decades  ago,  my  Government, 
recognizing  the  very  real  threat  posed  to  our  very 
existence,  upgraded  its  human  capital  capacity  to 
address the unintended consequences of climate change 
and  its  commitment  to  environmental  conservation. 
Through its many marine protected areas, the Bahamas 
is committed to the conservation of sustainable oceans, 
as well as through our active involvement in initiatives, 
such as the 10x20 initiative, and our participation in the 
consultative  process  of  biodiversity  beyond  national 
jurisdiction. In this context, the Bahamas has presented 
its candidature once again for a seat on the Council of 
the International Maritime Organization in category C.
The continuing imperative for us in the Bahamas and 
the Caribbean is the re-evaluation of the measurements 
used 
economic  well-being.  The 
International Monetary Fund (IMF), in its policy brief 
on  vulnerability  and  debt  in  small  States,  recognized 
that many SIDS face an uncertain future. The Bahamas 
continues to dispute the use of per capita gross domestic 
product/gross  national  product  as  an  instrument  to 
measure  wealth  and  economic  development.  The  use 
of this one-dimensional instrument prohibits countries 
that  are  most  in  need  from  receiving  development 
assistance or loans at concessional rates. It is time for 
us to replace that metric with a realistic measurement 
that takes into account the vulnerability and fragility of 
SIDS to exogenous shocks.
to  determine 
Notwithstanding our best efforts at self-sufficiency, 
exogenous shocks in the form of reduced correspondent 
banking  relationships  continue  to  create  challenges 
for  the  region.  International  banking  institutions, 
fearing that they may be subject to fines and sanctions 
related to the illicit activities of money-laundering and 
terrorist financing, have pulled out en masse. Citizens 
in our region depend on the services provided by these 
entities and have now become severely disadvantaged 
as  a  result  of  the  actions  taken.  This  threatens  our 
ability  to  remain  competitive  as  one  of  the  leading 
international centres and hinders our efforts to expand 
our trading relations.
The head of the IMF, Ms. Christine Lagarde, spoke 
convincingly  in  2016  on  the  subject  of  correspondent 
banking,  highlighting  that  all  stakeholders  had  to 
uphold their end of the bargain. For its part, the Bahamas 
has  invested  in  a  strong  compliance  regime,  at  great 
financial cost. We invite the international community 
to work together to find another way to deal with the 
issue  and  allow  input  from  those  to  be  impacted  by 
their decisions before moving the goal post yet again.
Despite  the  challenges  faced,  the  Government  of 
the  Bahamas  remains  committed  to  a  comprehensive 
development  agenda  for  the  country.  With  the  launch 
of  the  national  development  plan  Vision  2040  in  the 
coming  months,  we  will  set  a  course  towards  the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
In  this  connection,  the  Bahamas  has  committed  to 
participating in the voluntary national review process 
at  the  High-Level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development, under the auspices of the Economic and 
Social  Council,  in  2018.  We  appreciate  the  support 
of  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  and 
the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  in  this  regard.  Indeed,  it 
is  through  this  anticipated  integrated  framework  that 
we  shall  address  the  range  of  challenges  that  face 
our nation.
The  scourges  of  terrorism  and  trafficking  in 
arms  of  all  types  continue  to  impact  our  way  of  life. 
The  Bahamas  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  standing 
with the international community in the fight against 
terrorism in all its forms. We also stand in solidarity 
with  the  peoples  of  France,  Spain,  Belgium  and  the 
United  Kingdom,  who  have  recently  experienced 
horrific  terrorist  attacks.  Violence  in  the  furtherance 
of  political  aims  is  never  the  answer.  Only  through 
dialogue and negotiations will aspirations be realized.
importance  of 
accountability, truth and transparency in Government 
and  the  importance  of  the  rule  of  law  to  good 
governance. According to the United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime,
spoke  earlier  about 
I 
the 
“Corruption  is  a  global  phenomenon  found  in 
all  countries  —  but  evidence  shows  it  harms 
poor  people  more  than  others,  stifles  economic 
growth and diverts desperately needed funds from 
education,  health  care  and  other  public  services. 
An estimated $1 trillion get siphoned off through 
bribes every year, according to the World Bank.”
The  Government  of  the  Bahamas  has  firmly 
committed 
to  eradicating  criminality  and 
corruption. We are resolved to have in place an efficient, 
results-based  public  sector,  with  an  Office  of  the 
Ombudsman,  in  order  to  create  the  best  environment 
possible for promoting economic development, foreign 
itself 
4/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
direct  investment,  small  business  development  and 
equal opportunity for all to share in prosperity.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  advancing 
human  rights  has  been  essential.  The  1948  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, a series of international 
instruments,  human  rights  operations  on  the  ground 
and  the  various  human  rights  bodies,  such  as  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  permit  the  United  Nations  to 
continue  as  a  beacon  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights through both immediate and long-term action.
We  in  the  Bahamas  are  committed  to  protecting 
and promoting the rights of Bahamians and, indeed, all 
humankind. The achievements of the Bahamas relative 
to human rights have derived from collaboration with 
all  stakeholders  and  a  willingness  to  explore  fresh 
approaches  to  long-standing  challenges.  Within  that 
context,  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  the  Bahamas 
is  seeking  election  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  for 
the term 2019-2021. As a member of the Council and a 
small island developing State, the Bahamas will bring to 
that body a fresh, distinct and constructive perspective, 
with the potential to add depth and richness to human 
rights advancement and discourse.
The  Government  of  the  Bahamas  believes  that 
education  must  be  at  the  heart  of  driving  sustainable 
development, where we build resilience and an educated, 
inclusive and diverse workforce and community. That 
has positive implications for the creativity, innovation 
and productivity that allow learners and young people 
to fulfil their potential to act as agents of social change. 
For  that  reason,  our  Government  has  designed  an 
education  agenda  that  encourages  life-long  learning 
and  recognizes 
technology  and 
digital platforms to serve as tools in the teaching and 
learning process.
the  potential  of 
I take this opportunity to bring to the attention of the 
Assembly the fact that the Bahamas, in recognition of 
the invaluable role of technology and communications 
in  education  and  all  aspects  of  development,  has 
presented its candidature for a seat on the Council of 
the International Telecommunication Union.
The  New  York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and 
Migrants,  adopted  in  September  2016  by  the  General 
Assembly,  called  for  the  development  of  a  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration.  We 
commend  the  ongoing  work  in  preparation  for  the 
global  compact.  While  recognizing 
the  potential 
yields of global migration relative to the reduction of 
poverty  and  global  inequality,  we  believe  that  proper 
cooperation,  through  the  appropriate  mechanisms, 
can  help  to  ensure  that  migration  occurs  through 
safe  and  regulated  channels,  to  the  benefit  of  all 
countries involved.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
recognizes  the  targets  to  be  achieved  with  respect  to 
non-communicable  diseases  and  the  need  to  mobilize 
the  necessary  financing.  We  also  recognize 
the 
successes  experienced  in  the  global  AIDS  response, 
and  caution  the  international  community,  at  this 
important juncture, to resist complacency and continue 
to  offer  support  to  achieve  targets  and  to  sustain  the 
Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS.
The  Bahamas  supports  the  work  of  peacekeeping 
operations  and  the  Department  under  which  they  fall 
as  a  fundamental  instrument  to  build,  protect  and 
maintain peace and security within the United Nations.
We  note  the  approach  of  the  termination  of  the 
mandate of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in 
Haiti (MINUSTAH) and the establishment of the United 
Nations  Mission  for  Justice  Support  in  Haiti.  As  was 
the case with MINUSTAH, the Bahamas looks forward 
to doing its part to support Haiti’s continued national 
development.  We  also  join  the  continued  support  and 
engagement of the international community in Haiti.
During  the  main  session,  the  General  Assembly 
will  consider  and  approve  the  programme  budget  for 
the biennium 2018-2019. It is our expectation that the 
General Assembly will, in a transparent and constructive 
manner, approve a budget that aligns with the mandates 
and  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  We  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  initial  efforts  to  promote 
management  reform  aimed  at  strengthening  service 
delivery.  We  encourage  the  Secretary-General,  in  the 
execution of the budget, to continue to find innovative 
means  to  advance  an  efficient  implementation  of 
mandates, but without arbitrary cuts.
The Bahamas values the role of the United Nations 
as the custodian of the interests of the world’s people, in 
particular the poor and the vulnerable. We believe that 
the Charter of the United Nations remains a viable and 
firm foundation onto which global peace and security, 
social progress and economic development can be built.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Alan Peter Cayetano, Secretary for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of the Philippines.
17-29807
5/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
Mr.  Cayetano  (Philippines):  Blessed  are 
the 
peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God. 
The  path  to  peace  must  be  walked  with  patience.  In 
order  to  achieve  any  purpose  with  others,  be  they 
Powers  or  people,  patience  is  needed.  The  opposite 
of  patience  is  impatience,  which  is  the  cause  and 
aggravation of conflict.
Someone  said  that  to  jaw-jaw  is  better  than  to 
war-war.  Listening  is  even  better  than  talking.  We 
must listen to others more than we listen to ourselves. 
Hopefully,  we  know  what  we  are  talking  about,  but 
others may know what we do not. We can learn only if 
we stop talking and listen. We may think that we know 
how others can do things better than they themselves 
have  done  it.  Maybe  our  way  is  more  efficient.  But 
the  time  gained  by  that  efficiency  will  be  time  lost 
convincing  others  that  our  way  is  better,  rather  than 
reaching a compromise between our way and theirs.
Real  change  in  the  world  order  necessitates 
cooperation. Nothing affecting others can be undertaken 
without  their  willing  involvement  and  getting  their 
agreement on the purpose and manner of the change. 
Achieving a shared purpose beyond any single person’s 
ability requires cooperation. But how else can we get 
cooperation, if not with the patience to explain why it 
is needed and the equal patience to listen? That is why 
we  have  the  United  Nations,  the  largest  cooperative 
endeavour  in  human  history.  We  use  the  United 
Nations  to  speak  out,  but  more  importantly  to  listen. 
And somehow, we arrive at a consensus or at the very 
least a modus vivendi on how to proceed in peace and, 
therefore, with greater prospects for progress.
The  theme  for  this  year’s  session,  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on a 
sustainable  planet”,  captures  a  promise  that  everyone 
who has stood here has vowed to fulfil for his or her 
own  people,  as  well  as  for  the  rest  of  the  peoples  of 
the United Nations, as the Preamble to the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  puts  it.  Yet,  after  72  years,  while 
much  has  been  achieved,  much  more  has  to  be  done. 
The promise is still very much a work in progress. We, 
the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations,  battle  new  threats 
that undermine the success that we have achieved and 
frustrate  progress  in  peace,  development  and  human 
rights — the three pillars of the United Nations.
are committed to real change in order to finally carry 
out long-needed reforms, address long-ignored national 
threats  and  protect  the  human  rights  of  all  Filipinos 
while  doing  our  part  to  attain  regional  peace  and 
stability. We remain true to our obligations under the 
international treaties we have ratified. We have made 
many  sacrifices  as  a  nation  and  as  a  people,  and  we 
shall continue to do so for peace and prosperity.
The  Philippines 
into 
integrates 
its  development 
the  human  rights 
agenda 
initiatives  for 
the 
purpose  of  protecting  everyone,  especially  the  most 
vulnerable — families, women and children, the poor, 
indigenous  people,  migrant  workers,  the  elderly  and 
persons with disabilities — from lawlessness, violence 
and anarchy. That is why we have a massive campaign 
to  restore  the  rule  of  law  by  fighting  corruption, 
crime  and  illegal  drugs.  We  owe  it  to  the  10  million 
Filipinos working overseas to keep their children and 
families  safe.  We  owe  it  to  all  Filipino  families  and 
other  States  with  nationals  living  in  our  country  to 
keep  the  Philippines  safe.  The  very  principle  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  must  encompass,  first  and 
foremost,  the  vast  majority  of  peaceful,  law-abiding 
people who need protection from those who are not. It 
is for their safety and sustenance that States exist, and 
for which Governments and leaders are responsible.
President Duterte said the fewest words and made 
the  fewest  promises  in  the  campaign.  Why?  Because 
he listened. He listened and he heard what none of the 
other  candidates  would  listen  to.  The  vast  majority 
of  the  Filipino  people  felt  vulnerable  in  their  lives 
and  livelihoods,  and  unsafe  in  the  rising  drug-driven 
criminality  that  threatened  those  least  able  to  protect 
themselves. These people whom past Governments had 
least protected are the poor and ordinary folk.
The Philippines’ comprehensive campaign against 
illegal drugs is a necessary instrument to preserve and 
protect the human rights of all Filipinos. It is never an 
instrument to violate the human rights of any individual 
or group. It was noted by President Trump in this Hall 
that
“we  do  expect  all  nations  to  uphold  the  two  core 
sovereign  duties  to  respect  the  interests  of  their 
own people and the rights of every other sovereign 
nation” (A/72/PV.3, p. 10).
The  theme  mirrors  the  Philippines’  own  people-
centred agenda, as articulated by our President Rodrigo 
Roa Duterte. President Duterte and the Filipino people 
This is as true in bilateral relations between sovereign 
countries  as  when  they  combine  multilaterally  on 
a  common  decision  or  action.  The  Philippines  is  a 
6/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
sovereign  country;  indeed,  it  was  the  first  subject 
nation  to  win  its  independence,  however  short-lived, 
thereby earning the honour of being the first republic 
in Asia.
police  officers,  as  time  will  show  —  I  repeat,  our 
President has zero tolerance for any type of abuse, be it 
drug abuse, abuse of human rights, abuse of our laws or 
abuse by State actors, including our policemen.
We  expect  our  sovereignty  to  be  respected  and 
our  democratically  elected  Government’s  assessment 
of threats and how to go about addressing them to be 
accorded pre-eminence among nations. Is it too much 
to ask for the benefit of the doubt, at the very least? We 
prize  sovereignty  in  all  its  aspects.  We  acknowledge 
the wisdom embodied in the words spoken by President 
Trump  in  this  Hall:  “All  responsible  leaders  have  an 
obligation  to  serve  their  own  citizens”  (ibid.,  p.  11). 
In  keeping  with  that  obligation,  it  is  the  State’s  duty 
to  protect  human  life,  human  dignity,  and  human 
rights from aggression by other States, terrorism from 
non-State  actors  and  the  destruction  of  societies  and 
families from criminal networks trafficking in drugs, 
people and arms.
As  a  responsible  leader,  the  President  of  the 
Philippines  launched  a  vigorous  campaign  against 
the illegal drug trade to save lives, preserve families, 
protect  communities  and  stop 
the  country  from 
becoming  a  narco-State  —  an  epidemic  would  spell 
the  end  of  sovereignty  in  any  meaningful  sense. 
As  of  August  2017,  the  drug  trade  had  penetrated  at 
least  24,848  barangays,  representing  59  per  cent  of 
the  42,036  smallest  Government  units  spanning  our 
archipelago — those directly in touch with our people. 
It is estimated that 4 to 7 million people have used or are 
becoming dependent on drugs. Where is sovereignty in 
a  country  where  vast  numbers  are  addicted  to  drugs 
and enslaved by their suppliers?
To  be  sure,  drug  addiction  calls  for  cure  and  not 
chastisement.  When  the  President  showed  his  fierce 
determination to end the drug menace, 1.3 million drug 
users turned themselves in. Their constitutional rights 
were  fully  respected,  and  those  who  wanted  a  cure 
or  rehabilitation  were  offered  such  options.  But  the 
neglect of the drug problem by previous Governments 
has  left  the  current  one  hard-pressed  to  rehabilitate 
them all. We are grateful that generous souls at home 
and  abroad  are  building  centres  around  the  country, 
and we sincerely thank them.
While drug addiction calls for rehabilitation, drug 
trafficking  surely  calls  for  stern  measures,  though 
always  consistent  with  the  rule  of  law.  The  President 
has  and  will  always  have  zero  tolerance  for  abusive 
But  accusations  before 
investigation  do  not 
constitute proof, nor are they fair. Abuses have occurred 
and mistakes have been made — tragic ones, for sure. 
While  one  abuse  is  one  too  many,  still  there  are  far 
fewer abuses than the imaginary numbers claimed by 
partisan accusers and publicity-seekers. The drug trade 
has  even  penetrated  law  enforcement  and  our  courts, 
and yet the message we receive is that the best way to 
prevent abuse in the anti-drug campaign is to stop the 
campaign and live with drugs instead.
is 
that 
The  problem 
But we cannot live with drugs, because drugs will 
not  let  us  live.  Headlines  today  depict  human  rights 
abuse,  but  what  about  the  headlines  from  yesterday, 
or  last  week?  Two-year-olds,  4-year-olds  and  6-year-
olds  were  raped;  mothers  sold  their  children  to  feed 
their  drug  addictions;  and  children  shot  their  parents 
because they believed them to be the devil.
the  West 
sometimes 
thinks  that  the  kind  of  drugs  that  are  present  in  its 
societies  — heroin, cocaine and marijuana  — are the 
same drugs that we are talking about. We are talking 
about  methamphetamine  hydrochloride,  otherwise 
known  as  shabu,  which  both  the  United  Nations  and 
the World Health Organization have said is associated 
with violence and paranoia. With cocaine, heroin and 
marijuana,  the  drug  war  is  among  the  suppliers,  but 
with methamphetamines, the war is within the family 
and every family affected by these drugs is a victim.
We can no more live with drugs than we can with 
terrorism which, as the United Nations admits — and 
as we have discovered — is funded by the drug trade. 
This  has  created  the  new  phenomenon  of  criminal 
insurgency. In the century before last, a huge and well-
populated  Asian  country  was  enslaved  by  a  maritime 
Power  that  flooded  it  with  drugs.  We  welcome  this 
opportunity to address the international community’s 
concerns  and  correct  the  perceptions  gleaned  from 
media reports that deny the real scale of the problem, 
as if denial were a solution. The problem is huge and we 
will not reduce it in our imagination because we dare 
not face it in reality.
Appeasement emboldens evil. We counsel patience, 
but  delay  will  make  the  problem  bigger  until  it  is 
17-29807
7/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
beyond containment and control. Indeed, as we heard 
from President Trump in this Hall,
“When  decent  people  and  nations  become 
bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only 
gather power and strength” (ibid.).
We  will  not  slide  down  the  slope  of  complacency  in 
wilful ignorance of the threat posed to our country and 
our people by the drug trade.
In  the  past  four  years,  we  have  seen  the  rise  of 
the  Islamic  State  and  how  it  has  spread  its  nihilistic 
ideology  beyond  Iraq  and  Syria  to  become  a  serious 
threat to the whole world. We should have no illusions 
that the threat posed by the Islamic State will end with 
the collapse of its self-proclaimed caliphate in Iraq, and 
very soon in Syria. Rather, we should all be ready to 
confront a very potent threat that has spread to other 
parts of the world.
In the Philippines, we have discovered the intimate 
and symbiotic relationship between terrorism, poverty 
and  the  illegal  drug  trade.  Terrorists  were  somehow 
able  to  bring  together  an  assortment  of  extremists, 
criminals,  mercenaries  and  foreign  fighters  who 
attempted,  but  failed,  to  take  over  the  great  city  of 
Marawi. That was part of their grand plan to establish 
in  South-East  Asia  an  extension  or  province  of  their 
shattered caliphate in the Middle East.
The Armed Forces of the Philippines shall regain 
full control of Marawi from the Islamic State-inspired 
terrorists.  Their  protracted  hold  of  their  remaining 
several  square  metres  of  the  city  is  largely  a  result 
of  superior  arms  that  were  illegally  obtained  and  the 
presence of civilian hostages, used by them as human 
shields. There is also the Government’s forbearance to 
unleash  greater  force  in  order  to  avoid  collateral  loss 
of  life.  The  fight  has  been  terrible,  but  the  effort  has 
been  patient  and  careful  to  spare  the  innocent.  There 
has been less talk and more listening to those with the 
most at stake in the struggle — the people of Marawi. 
The disturbance will soon be over and the rebuilding of 
Marawi will begin shortly.
and cooperation is a tradition of the Philippines. Help 
from fellow Filipinos is always at hand. While the main 
burden is borne by our Government and people and all 
the  risks  are  taken  by  our  soldiers,  we  are  thankful 
for  the  assistance  extended  to  us  by  the  international 
community.  From  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  I  thank 
all  who  have  helped,  are  continuing  to  help  and  have 
promised  help.  I  thank  those  dear  friends  for  helping 
when we needed it most.
The Philippines welcomes the creation of the United 
Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism to bring together, 
as  a  cohesive  whole, the  work  of  Member  States  and 
the  United  Nations  on  counter-terrorism.  It  will  be  a 
sharing of experience and sober reflection rather than 
of  blind  anxieties.  That  is  where  real  results  will  be 
achieved. As a founding Member of the United Nations, 
the Philippines has been a strong advocate of the rule of 
law. We uphold the core of the United Nations mission 
to draw upon the strength and sovereign equality of its 
Members to achieve their common goals.
Centuries  ago,  ambitions  to  take  land  resulted 
in  long  and  terrible  wars.  The  battle  has  shifted  to 
the  seas;  hence  the  need  to  affirm  our  commitment 
to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  as  the  international  law  governing  the  rights  and 
responsibilities  of  States  parties  in  their  use  of  the 
world’s  oceans.  The  issues  —  including  territorial 
claims, sovereignty rights, security, and the protection 
of  marine  life  and  resources,  to  name  a  few  —  are 
undoubtedly numerous, intertwined and complex.
Dialogue, building trust and promoting cooperation 
are the way forward in addressing maritime disputes. 
This  year,  as  Chair  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Philippines looks forward 
to successful negotiations on the long-overdue code of 
conduct  in  the  West  Philippine  Sea/South  China  Sea. 
We fully thank our ASEAN neighbours, the individual 
ASEAN States and China for their utmost cooperation 
in that endeavour. Again, in this work, it is essential to 
have patience, to listen and to be willing to work with, 
rather than against, each other.
Terrorism is a global problem that no country can 
tackle alone, although here at the United Nations it has 
been noted with some admiration that Filipino families 
outside  the  conflict  zone  quickly  absorbed  most  of 
the  200,000  displaced  civilians.  Our  main  disaster 
preparedness  is  Filipino  compassion.  The  Filipino 
family system is strong, the bayanihan system is alive, 
We live in a global community, and we are citizens 
of  the  world.  Today,  our  social  contract  is  no  longer 
confined  to  our  nation  State.  In  our  region,  we  exert 
efforts  to  build  bridges  and  not  walls;  to  emphasize 
commonalities  and  not  differences;  to  think  less  that 
we are Filipinos, Thai, Indonesian, Japanese, Koreans 
or  Chinese,  and  to  think  more  of  ourselves  as  Asian. 
8/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
Beyond  being  Asians,  we  are  global  citizens  —  the 
people of the United Nations.
Human  rights  and  the  dignity  of  every  person 
are  the  main  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  the 
Philippines,  too.  As  a  very  spiritual  people,  we  are 
united in believing that man and woman were created 
in God’s image. There can be no compromise of human 
rights for those who break the law, nor for those who 
are  their  victims.  We  also  believe  in  accountability, 
especially  in  the  practical  conviction  that  as  we  sow, 
so shall we reap.
We  should  never  tolerate  human  rights  abuses, 
but neither should we tolerate misinformation or fake 
news on or the politicization of human rights, as those 
undermine our collective efforts as the United Nations 
to uphold the universality of human rights and dignity 
of human life. But why debate security versus human 
rights? Security and human rights are not incompatible. 
Indeed,  the  former  is  our  duty  to  the  latter.  Without 
security, the most basic human rights to life and safety 
are constantly under attack from terrorism, criminality, 
drug trafficking and human trafficking.
Much  has  been  said  about  ASEAN,  which  is 
identified with words such as cooperation, consultation 
and consensus. Critics have remarked on the slowness of 
ASEAN’s way of proceeding. Yet, as slow as ASEAN’s 
progress  has  been,  it  has  been  solid,  substantive  and 
irreversible,  precisely  because  of  the  patience  with 
which it is made. It is thereby proving to be a consensus-
based organization that is working, and working well.
Five decades ago, South-East Asia was marred by 
conflicts, and all previous attempts at South-East Asian 
regionalism proved extremely difficult, if not impossible 
for  some.  Our  different  cultures,  differing  ideologies 
and  different  political  systems  only  reinforced  that 
pessimistic  outlook.  Fifty  years  later,  the  ASEAN 
miracle  prevails  with  greater  political  and  economic 
prospects that have gripped global interest. ASEAN has 
overcome the divisions, fears and hostilities of the past. 
We have used regional cooperation to promote growth, 
development,  integration  and  the  peaceful  settlement 
of disputes.
Today,  the  Philippines  patiently  builds  stronger 
relationships with the international community through 
ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations.  We  remain  a  friend 
to  all  and  an  enemy  to  none.  We  are  here  to  bridge 
and  build  a  more  peaceful,  secure  and  stable  world. 
There  is  no  development  without  peace  and  no  peace 
without development. That is what the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development provides for. It serves as the 
template  of  the  Philippines  development  plan, called 
AmBisyon Natin 2040, or Our Ambition 2040.
While 
the 
has 
Philippines 
experienced 
unprecedented  economic  growth,  we  are  adopting 
measures  to  make  growth  more  inclusive  through 
massive  poverty-alleviation  programmes 
that  are 
creating  more  jobs,  driving  innovation  and  making 
quality  education  universally  available  —  relevant 
education  that  imparts  training  and  skill-building  to 
make  people  resilient  in  changing  markets,  building 
greater trust in Government and hopes for raising tens 
of millions of Filipinos from poverty.
There  is  a  link  between  increasing  poverty, 
corruption and a deteriorating environment. President 
Rodrigo Roa Duterte seeks to reverse that linkage by 
addressing the adverse effects of climate change — to 
which  the  Philippines  is  most  vulnerable  —  through 
disaster-risk reduction and the strict implementation of 
laws protecting the environment. He is equally decisive 
on abuses that damage our environment.
To honour the immense sacrifices of our 10 million 
Filipinos abroad, and all other migrant workers of the 
world who make huge sacrifices so that their families 
may have a better life, we press on with our advocacy for 
a global compact on migration. As we seek to improve 
conditions for foreign nationals living and working in 
the Philippines, we advocate the fundamental concept 
of loving our neighbour as we love ourselves. We call on 
the United Nations to elevate migration on its agenda.
If  we  listen  to  each  other,  we  will  hear  the  same 
thing. We have no need for nuclear weapons. Again, we 
have no need for nuclear weapons. There is absolutely 
no benefit to another Cold War or to an arms race. We 
want nuclear weapons to be a thing of the past, and we 
do not want an arms race in any part of the world.
On 7 July, the Philippines joined 121 other Member 
States  in  securing  our  world  from  weapons  of  mass 
destruction by adopting the Treaty on the Prohibition of 
Nuclear Weapons. Three days ago, I had the privilege 
of  signing  the  Treaty  on  behalf  of  the  Philippines. 
The  Philippines  calls  on  Member  States  with  nuclear 
weapons to likewise sign on in order to find a way to 
provide  the  world  with  security  without  the  threat  of 
mass  destruction.  We  can  have  a  safe  world  only  if 
we  get  rid  of  all  nuclear  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction.  By  doing  so,  we  shall  save  succeeding 
17-29807
9/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war,  which  twice  in 
our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind.
The Philippines, on its own and as this year’s Chair 
of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  has 
expressed its grave concern over the growing tensions 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  because  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  missile  test  launches 
and  detonations.  The  Philippines  joins  the  call  on 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  put  a 
stop  to  its  provocations,  which  bring  us  closer  to  an 
unimaginable scenario — a war to end all wars because 
no one will be left to fight new ones.
Let  me  end  where  I  began,  and  call  again  for 
patience,  listening  and  cooperation,  focused  always 
on the well-being of, as stated in the Preamble to the 
Charter of the United Nations, “We, the peoples of the 
United Nations”. Let us listen to each other as we all 
are  the  people  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  faith  and 
destiny as human beings on this planet are intertwined.
In a situation like the present, where every finger 
in  and  around  the  Korean  peninsula  is  on  a  trigger 
and  every  eye  is  on  the  lookout  for  a  wrong  move, 
the  likelihood  of  a  surprise  attack  is  virtually  zero. 
In that context, no one can be caught by surprise and 
unprepared  to  strike  back.  So  what  is  there  to  lose 
by  going  on  talking  and  listening  until  the  very  last 
moment, in the hope that a resolution will be found?
Patience, 
listening  as  much  as 
talking,  and 
cooperation  among  friends  and  even  enemies  are  the 
signposts on the path of peace. Peace is about people. 
No people and no country can have a national identity if 
there are no others that can tell the difference. Without 
people — each one different, yet all the same in their 
being and in the good they seek — it is impossible to 
imagine  the  world.  To  utter  the  phrase  “the  world” 
means a planet with many peoples sharing it.
All of us are pieces of a giant puzzle. We seek to be 
completed by being pieced together, thereby creating a 
whole, beautiful picture. In a war of all against all, of 
every one against the other, the last man standing is not 
at peace; rather, he is simply a single piece. He is not 
the victor; he is simply alone.
I congratulate the President on his election, and he 
can count on the support of the Philippines.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Singapore.
Mr. Balakrishnan (Singapore): I am honoured to 
speak here on behalf of one of the world’s smallest city 
States, the Republic of Singapore. First, I congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajcák  on  his  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. I also congratulate Mr. Peter Thomson 
of Fiji on his successful leadership as President at the 
seventy-first session.
We are meeting at a time of great uncertainty. The 
old  fault  lines  of  race,  language  and  religion  remain 
active.  There  is  renewed  anxiety  about  jobs  and 
inequality. New technologies and non-State actors are 
challenging  the  international  order.  Terrorist  groups 
are using the Internet to spread their poisonous, radical 
ideologies, including in South-East Asia. Cyberattacks 
and  fake  news  have  proliferated.  Conflicts  in  many 
regions of the world remain and new ones have emerged.
In  North-East  Asia,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea’s  reckless  actions  are  raising 
tensions on the Korean peninsula. Singapore strongly 
condemns the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s 
missile and nuclear-weapon tests, which are in flagrant 
violation  of  Security  Council  resolutions.  We  call  on 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  avoid 
further provocations and to fully implement all of the 
resolutions adopted by the Security Council.
In  Myanmar’s  Rakhine  state,  a  humanitarian 
disaster  has  occurred  in  the  aftermath  of  a  terrorist 
attack on 25 August and related acts of violence. It is 
a  complex,  intercommunal  issue  with  deep  historical 
roots,  and  it  will  not  be  solved  instantly.  It  is  the 
responsibility  of  every  Government  to  protect  every 
civilian,  regardless  of  ethnicity,  religious  beliefs  or 
origin. I visited Nay Pyi Taw last week and had a very 
frank discussion with Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. She is 
deeply troubled by what is happening in her own country 
and deeply distressed by the pain and suffering there.
Extremists  everywhere  actually  have  a  common 
playbook.  First,  they  commit  an  egregious  act  of 
violence. Secondly, they stick a religious label on the 
situation in order to convey a sense of “us versus them”. 
Thirdly, they eliminate the grey zone of moderates by 
causing  alienation  due  to  overreaction.  And  so,  we 
must be very careful that we do not fall into the trap 
of those extremists. As a doctor, I believe that the first 
rule of medicine is to do no harm. Therefore, as the rest 
of the world looks on with distress and alarm, we need 
to be very careful and measured in our response.
10/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
The  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  Foreign  Ministers  will  be  meeting  later 
today.  ASEAN  supports  Myanmar  in  seeking  a  long-
term  solution  to  restore  stability  within  its  own 
borders.  Singapore  will  work  through  ASEAN  and 
with Myanmar to extend humanitarian assistance to all 
affected communities.
Every country actually seeks to achieve the same 
thing  —  to  ensure  the  security  and  prosperity  of  our 
people  and  to  create  a  better  future  for  our  children. 
But no country, no matter how wealthy, big or powerful, 
can  achieve  that  alone.  Multilateralism,  international 
law,  constructive  interdependence  and  a  sense  of 
win-win  cooperation  are  crucial  to  the  sustainable 
development and prosperity for all countries. Therefore, 
a strong multilateral system reinforces the resilience of 
individual countries. This is particularly true for small 
States because we depend on a rules-based multilateral 
system for our survival and our success.
Today,  I  want  to  speak,  first,  on  the  importance 
of  multilateralism;  secondly,  on  having  an  open 
global  architecture;  and  thirdly,  on  having  inclusive 
economic growth.
My  first  point  is  on  a  universal,  rules-based 
multilateral  system  and  why  it  is  essential  if  we  are 
to solve the complex problems facing the world today. 
No  nation  can  solve  transboundary  problems  alone. 
We  need  to  work  with  each  other,  we  need  to  build 
consensus  and  we  need  to  find  effective  solutions  to 
global  problems.  The  United  Nations  plays  a  critical 
role in that regard as a platform for cooperation, based 
on the principles of mutual respect, mutual benefit and 
international  law.  In  fact,  the  United  Nations  is  the 
universal body best placed to address the problems of 
the global commons. A good example is the adoption of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS)  in  1982,  which  is  an  enduring  testament 
to  what  collective  political  will  can  achieve.  Today, 
UNCLOS  has  become  a  constitution  that  governs  the 
use of the oceans.
showed 
The  recent  adoption  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development 
can 
respond  to  new  challenges,  especially  when  there 
is  political  will  and  collective  commitment.  When 
dealing  with  global  issues  such  as  climate  change, 
there is no alternative to a multilateral approach. The 
United  Nations  must  also  deal  with  emerging  global 
that  multilateralism 
challenges,  such  as  cybersecurity,  counter-terrorism 
and the economic disruption caused by the emergence 
of digital technologies, including artificial intelligence 
and the potential for genetic engineering.
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  remain  effective  and 
relevant,  it  must  also  become  fit  for  purpose.  There 
is  much  scope  to  optimize  synergies  and  minimize 
inefficiencies  within  the  United  Nations  system.  In 
this regard, Singapore strongly supports the Secretary-
General’s efforts to reform and restructure the United 
Nations. We welcome his management reforms and his 
efforts to review the United Nations development system 
so as to streamline the peace and security architecture.
As  a  small  State,  Singapore  has  always  been  a 
strong  supporter  of  an  effective  United  Nations.  This 
year,  we  are  proud  that  the  Forum  of  Small  States, 
founded  by  Singapore  in  1992,  celebrates  its  twenty-
fifth anniversary. Singapore is committed to working 
closely  with  all  States,  especially  small  States,  to 
support the work of the United Nations and to enhance 
its  effectiveness.  Regional  organizations  are  also  an 
important  part  of  an  effective  multilateral,  rules-
based  system.  They  help  to  reinforce  the  principles 
of the Charter  of the United Nations and  to underpin 
international  law  at  the  regional  and  local  levels. 
Equally  important,  they  help  to  build  confidence  and 
encourage habits of cooperation.
In  South-East  Asia,  ASEAN  is  celebrating  its 
fiftieth  anniversary.  ASEAN  has  not  only  fostered 
regional  economic 
integration,  but  perhaps  even 
more important, it has secured regional peace for five 
decades  and  strengthened  the  national  resilience  of 
each  of  its  members  by  creating  a  sense  of  common 
identity in the midst of great diversity. The prospects 
for  ASEAN  are  very  bright,  and  we  have  ambitious 
plans to do more, under our vision of a united, resilient 
and innovative ASEAN.
My  second  and  related  point  concerns  the  need 
for  an  open  global  architecture  that  is  essential  for 
growth and sustainable development. We have to make 
a choice. One model is a world divided by rival blocs, 
running  mercantilist  economies,  waging  proxy  wars 
and engaging in zero-sum competition. There is another 
model  — one where there is a vision of a world with 
open,  interdependent,  sovereign  States  characterized 
by  enlightened  long-term  national  interests,  win-win 
collaboration and sustainable development.
17-29807
11/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
It  should  come  as  no  surprise  that  Singapore, 
almost  by  definition,  has  to  support  the  latter  model. 
We  believe  that  an  open,  rules-based,  multilateral 
system allows every country to fulfil its potential and 
its  duty  to  its  citizens.  In  particular,  it  allows  small 
States,  which  are  dependent  on  international  trade 
and  investments,  to  create  a  pathway  for  growth  and 
resilience.  It  is  therefore  important,  especially  at  this 
time, to remain steadfast in the face of growing cause 
for rising protectionism.
An  open 
trading  environment  has  allowed 
developing countries to export their goods and services 
and raised hundreds of millions of people from poverty 
into a new, rising middle class. Equally important, this 
rise  of  a  prosperous  middle  class  across  Asia,  Africa 
and  South  America  has  also  been  associated  with 
peace  and  stability.  The  World  Trade  Organization 
is  indispensable,  as  it  underpins  the  rules-based 
multilateral trading system and provides a framework 
for resolving trade disputes.
The Group of Twenty (G-20) is another important 
platform 
for  discussing  global  macroeconomic 
and  financial  issues.  However,  it  is  important  for 
the  G-20  to  work  closely  with  the  United  Nations 
and  with  non-members  of  the  G-20  in  order  to 
strengthen  the  multilateral  system  and  to  support  the 
implementation of the 2030 Agenda. We welcome the 
efforts  of  successive  G-20  Presidents  to  reach  out  to 
non-members,  in  particular  members  of  the  Global 
Governance  Group.  The  Group  will  continue  to  be 
an  advocate  for  a  more  accountable  and  inclusive 
framework of global governance.
My third and final point is on the need for inclusive 
economic  growth.  Politically, 
the  consensus  for 
multilateralism  and  an  open  global  architecture  will 
not  be sustained  if  people  within  our  own  States  feel 
that  they  are  going  to  be  left  behind.  In  other  words, 
we need to make sure that there is inclusive economic 
growth that lifts all communities together. Indeed, the 
2030  Agenda  is  fundamentally  a  vision  for  achieving 
long-term  inclusive  economic  growth,  not  just  at  the 
national level, but at the regional and global levels as 
well. It is a vision shared by all countries. However, the 
challenge for every Government is to generate higher 
growth and to create more jobs while ensuring that no 
one is left behind.
In Singapore, quite frankly, we believe firmly in the 
role of hard work, savings and self-reliance. However, 
we also believe in taking care of the weak and vulnerable 
in  every  segment  of  our  society.  Consequently,  our 
policies on women, children, older persons and persons 
with disabilities are designed to protect and uplift the 
most vulnerable. We place great emphasis on racial and 
religious harmony and in building social cohesiveness.
Beyond  resilience,  successful  societies  have  to 
embrace  new  technologies  and  encourage  innovation. 
The  digital  revolution  is  fundamentally  changing  the 
way  we  live,  work,  play,  communicate,  mobilize  and 
organize  our  societies.  We  cannot  wish  away  those 
disruptive changes. Instead, we have to restructure our 
economies and our societies, so that we can create new, 
better  jobs  for  our  people  in  this  new  digital  world. 
However, that will not be an easy task; it does not come 
about because of a speech or two.
The transformation caused by the digital revolution 
will be positive only if we can find ways to share the 
benefits  more  widely  and  to  reduce  inequality.  It  is 
worth  remembering  that  at  the  beginning  of  every 
industrial  or  technological  revolution  there  is  often  a 
period  of  widening  inequality,  because  the  people  or 
the countries who experience it first have an enormous 
advantage. It takes time for new tools and technologies 
to  be  democratized  and  commoditized  so  that  a  new 
middle class arises, bringing in a new golden age. We 
need to do the same with this new revolution. That is 
why we in Singapore have invested heavily in education 
and  skills,  training  our  people,  both  young  and  old, 
to give everyone a chance to maximize opportunities 
and  to  harvest  new  potential  from  this  new  digital 
revolution. We want every Singaporean to have a stake 
in our growth and to share in our success as a nation.
Let me conclude by saying that the United Nations 
is absolutely essential, particulary for small States such 
as Singapore. The United Nations has been a catalyst 
for peace and development for more than 70 years. It 
has given a young State like Singapore, just 52 years 
old, enormous opportunities for amazing progress over 
the past five decades. It has made a real difference to 
the lives of people around the world.
In an environment of increased uncertainties, the 
case for multilateralism becomes stronger, not weaker. 
Now  more  than  ever,  we  need  the  United  Nations  to 
help us find solutions to difficult, complex problems, 
global and local. We need to safeguard and strengthen 
our  multilateral,  rules-based  system  so  that  even  the 
smallest State can survive and thrive as an independent, 
12/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
sovereign nation. We need an open global architecture 
based on a vision of an interdependent world in order 
to  secure,  sustainable  prosperity  for  every  single  one 
of us. But most important, we need inclusive and fair 
economic  growth  to  empower  all  our  people  to  lead 
good and meaningful lives.
The Acting President: I now call on his Excellency 
Sheikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed  Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Sheikh  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  wholeheartedly  congratulate 
Mr. Lajčák and his friendly country, Slovakia, on his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
current  session  and  to  pledge  our  full  cooperation  in 
the discharge of the duties with which he is entrusted. 
We are fully confident that, thanks to his insight and 
clear vision, he will successfully conduct the business 
of this session. I also wish to praise his choice of theme 
for    this  session,  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. 
This  important  theme  meets  the  expectations  of  all 
countries  and  peoples.  I  also  take  this  opportunity 
to  express  my  deep  appreciation  to  his  predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  for  his  able  and 
competent presidency of the previous session.
I  renew  my  congratulations  to  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres  and  applaud  his  tireless  efforts,  as 
reflected  in  his  important  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/72/1),  in  which  he  demonstrates  his 
resolve to reform its structure and management, enhance 
its  role  in  the  consolidation  of  international  peace 
and  security,  and  support  sustainable  development  in 
response to the challenges and changing circumstances 
confronting us. In that connection, I also applaud the 
efforts of His Excellency President Donald Trump of the 
United States of America to support the reform of the 
United Nations. The Kingdom of Bahrain was among 
the  first  countries  to  sign  the  political  declaration  he 
initiated in support of the Secretary-General’s reform 
plan for the United Nations.
I would be remiss if I did not express the Kingdom 
of Bahrain’s heartfelt condolences to the United States 
of  America,  Mexico  and  the  Caribbean  nations  and 
their  peoples  on  the  natural  disasters  to  which  they 
have  been  subjected  and  which  caused  numerous 
fatalities and material damage. I reiterate our solidarity 
with  them  and  pray  that  they  will  soon  recover  from 
their impact.
Under the leadership of His Majesty King Hamad 
bin Isa Al Khalifa, King of the Kingdom of Bahrain; 
His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Khalifa  Bin  Salman  Al 
Khalifa,  Prime  Minister;  and  His  Royal  Highness 
Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, Crown Prince, 
Deputy Supreme Commander and First Deputy Prime 
Minister, the Kingdom of Bahrain remains faithful to 
its  consistent  policy  of  enhancing  partnerships  with 
the United Nations and its various bodies in expression 
of  its  firm  belief  in  the  role  that  our  Organization  is 
playing to achieve a more stable and prosperous world.
Accordingly,  this  year  has  witnessed  numerous 
initiatives 
the 
launching  of  the  King  Hamad  Youth  Empowerment 
Award to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, 
aimed at consolidating the efforts of governmental and 
private  entities  to  enhance  the  contribution  of  young 
people to the sustainable development process.
fruitful  cooperation,  notably 
for 
In  March,  the  Princess  Sabeeka  bint  Ibrahim  Al 
Khalifa  Global  Award  for  Women’s  Empowerment 
was  officially  launched.  That  award,  named  after  the 
wife  of  His  Majesty  the  King  and  President  of  the 
Supreme  Council  for  Women,  is  in  full  conformity 
with the objectives of the United Nations in enhancing 
the  role  of  women  in  development.  It  also  reflects 
the  pioneering  experience  of  Bahraini  women,  both 
nationally and internationally.
Similarly,  the  International  Youth  Conference  to 
Achieve Sustainable Development was held under the 
patronage of His Highness Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad 
Al  Khalifa,  Representative  of  His  Majesty  the  King 
for Charity Works and Youth Affairs, in collaboration 
with  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme. 
It  focused  on  raising  awareness  among  young  people 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and 
enhancing their role in achieving them.
In the context of Bahrain’s keen interest in pursuing 
its  efforts  to  achieve  the  SDGs  and  to  maintain  its 
leading  position  among  countries  with  very  high 
indicators in the field of human development, according 
to  international  sources,  Bahrain  looks  forward  to 
the  forthcoming  signing  of  a  strategic  partnership 
framework with the United Nations for the period 2017-
2020.
My  country  has  also  made  strides  towards  the 
elimination  of  forced  labour  and  human  trafficking 
by ratifying the relevant international agreements and 
protocols. It further issued an act prohibiting all forms 
17-29807
13/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
of human trafficking, with severe sentences imposed on 
the perpetrators, while also implementing the national 
referral system for the victims of trafficking — the first 
of its kind in the region — which provides a mechanism 
to monitor and redress that illegal practice.
terrorism  and  provide  protection  for  international 
navigation and commerce routes, in particular through 
close cooperation between the Bahrain Defense Force 
and  the  American  Fifth  Fleet,  based  in  the  Kingdom 
of Bahrain.
Recently, the Kingdom of Bahrain issued the Unified 
Family Law, a key legislative tool for the consolidation 
of the family’s stability and the preservation of all its 
rights  without  exploitation  or  mistreatment.  That  is 
based on the noble teachings of Islam and the principles 
enshrined in the Bahraini Constitution that the family is 
the foundation of society. That law equally exemplifies 
Bahrain’s  commitment  to  international  instruments 
related  to  the  family  and  women,  including,  most 
importantly, those of the Committee on the Elimination 
of Discrimination against Women.
In  support  of  the  United  Nations  endeavours  to 
address global warming and its implications in the area 
of climate change, the Kingdom of Bahrain deposited 
its instrument of ratification of the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change in December 2016, thereby renewing 
its  commitment  to  that  historic  agreement,  which  we 
hope  will  consolidate  international  efforts  to  address 
that perilous phenomenon.
The Kingdom of Bahrain firmly believes that the 
maintenance  of  stability  and  security  in  the  Middle 
East and the entire world requires a strong and common 
political  will,  as  well  as  serious  collective  efforts  to 
guarantee  respect  for  the  basic  principles  underlying 
relations among States, such as good-neighbourliness, 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  others 
and  compliance  with  international  conventions  and 
instruments,  so  that  we  can  address  the  greatest 
challenge  facing  us,  namely,  terrorism,  and  deter 
individuals and entities from supporting and financing 
it. That is especially important now that terrorism is no 
longer limited to terrorist organizations that we are able 
to confront and eliminate. Rather, it has become a tool 
in the hands of States determined to generate crises in 
other countries in the pursuit of their own agenda. They 
have consequently become fully complicit partners in 
the  commission  of  terrorist  acts  and  a  factor  in  the 
destabilization of international peace and security.
Given  the  strategic  importance  of  peace  and 
security for our vital region, my country is seeking to 
establish  strategic  partnerships  within  its  own  region 
and with its allies. As partners, we can work together 
to  preserve  the  security  of  the  Gulf  region,  combat 
The summit of the States of the Gulf Cooperation 
Council  (GCC)  and  the  United  States  of  America 
was  held  in  May  this  year  in  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia and produced a memorandum of understanding 
to  establish  a  centre  responsible  for  combating  the 
financing  of  terrorism.  That  and  the  Arab-Islamic-
American  summit  are  both  important  landmarks  in 
combating  terrorism  in  that  they  establish  a  strategic 
and  effective  partnership  among  the  United  States  of 
America,  the  States  of  the  GCC  and  the  other  Arab 
Islamic countries.
We reaffirm that the Global Center for Combating 
Extremist Ideology, which was inaugurated in Riyadh 
on  the  sidelines  of  the  GCC-United  States  summit, 
will  make  a  significant  contribution  to  combating 
extremist  ideologies  and  will  promote  the  values  of 
tolerance and coexistence throughout the world. In that 
context, I commend the General Assembly’s adoption 
of  resolution  71/291,  which  established  the  Office 
of  Counter-Terrorism,  an  important  step  towards 
the  consolidation  of  international  efforts  to  address 
that scourge.
It is no longer acceptable that among us there are rogue 
countries  that  continue  to  occupy  others’  territories, 
thereby violating the sovereignty of States, threatening 
international peace and security, supporting extremism 
and terrorism, and spreading hate and anarchy. It is no 
longer  tenable  that  we  allow  those  countries  to  join 
our efforts to end struggles, resolve conflicts and halt 
complex humanitarian tragedies — situations that those 
countries were responsible for aggravating. We should 
refuse them the opportunity to be included among us 
and  to  misuse  their  voice  to  satisfy  their  ambitions 
and  hostile  goals.  Confronting  those  countries  is  a 
duty  and  a  responsibility  that  the  entire  international 
community must shoulder. They should either respect 
their  commitments  and  keep  pace  with  the  collective 
international  will  to  achieve  peace,  development  and 
welfare,  or  be  held  clearly  accountable  and  suffer 
isolation and the severe consequences of international 
resolutions and laws.
Against 
to  consolidate 
anti-terrorist  and  anti-extremist  efforts,  the  Kingdom 
that  backdrop,  and 
14/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
of Bahrain, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United 
Arab  Emirates  and  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt,  with 
the support of many other countries, availed themselves 
of  their  sovereign  right  under  international  law  to 
sever relations with Qatar. That followed a long period 
of  patience  during  which  we  exhausted  all  available 
means to halt Qatar’s policies that violated all fraternal 
relations of good-neighbourliness and non-interference 
in the internal affairs of States.
Qatar  provided  financial  support  and  safe  haven 
to terrorists and fugitives and disseminated a narrative 
replete with hate and extremism through its media and 
the  individuals  and  institutions  supporting  it  —  all 
of  whom  we  have  placed  on  a  unified  terrorist  list 
and  most  of  whom  are  also  included  on  international 
terrorist  lists.  That  was  done  to  make  the  situation 
clear  to  the  entire  world  following  the  fallout  of  that 
terrorism,  which  spread  to  many  countries,  including 
my own. Qatar has supported systematic terrorist acts 
whose consequences we have suffered in the Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  and  which  have  cost  us  the  lives  of  many 
innocent civilians and security personnel. It has done 
so  with  a  view  to  undermining  national  security  and 
societal  peace  and  overthrowing  the  Government 
system with the support of their affiliates.
It  is  therefore  our  collective  responsibility  to 
protect our States and peoples from those who seek to 
harm  them,  and  to  confront  them  firmly.  If  Qatar  is 
serious — by its actions and not only its words — about 
engaging in dialogue and reclaiming its place among us, 
it must respond positively and commit to our reasonable 
demands in full transparency, based on the principles 
enshrined  in  the  joint  statement  issued  following 
meeting of the four countries in Cairo on 5 July 2017, 
in  full  conformity  with  international  covenants  and 
instruments. In that connection, we highly appreciate 
the tireless efforts and the good offices of His Highness 
Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Amir of 
the State of Kuwait.
We  stress  the  fact  that  all  actions  taken  against 
Qatar are directed neither against our peoples nor the 
Qatari people, for whom we have nothing but respect 
and affection and with whom we are linked by religion, 
family relations and a common history. We will always 
support their security and stability, and to that end, our 
countries have taken a number of measures to address 
the  humanitarian  issues,  including  those  concerning 
family relations and health conditions. That was clearly 
shown  by  the  facilities  recently  provided  to  Qataris 
by  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  including  for  Hajj 
and  Umrah.  That  confirms  the  solid  ties  and  refutes 
assertions of blockades or violations of human rights.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  country’s 
congratulations to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the 
great success of the Hajj season, which has been widely 
praised by all those participating in that major Islamic 
rite.  It  is  a  meaningful  riposte  to  all  those  seeking 
to  politicize  the  Hajj  and  turn  it  into  an  occasion 
for  fomenting  conflict  and  sedition.  In  attending  to 
its  highest  priority,  the  Saudi  Government  thereby 
demonstrated its outstanding ability to protect the Two 
Holy Mosques and other sacred sites, as well as all the 
visitors performing the rites of Hajj or Umrah.
Regimes  that  constantly  seek  to  spread  anarchy 
and evil are instruments of destruction and will be the 
biggest  losers  as  they  drift  away  from  the  values  of 
collective cooperation among nations. Such is the case 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, where the people suffer 
from  oppression,  misery  and  poverty  while  gallows 
are erected in the streets. Living conditions are harsh 
and have taken that people — who are rich in history 
and  civilization  —  backward  dozens  of  years.  Their 
resources  are  wasted  to  fuel  violence  and  undermine 
the  region’s  security  for  the  sake  of  realizing  Iran’s 
hegemonic  and  expansionist  ambitions  through  its 
Revolutionary  Guard  and  its  affiliates,  such  as  the 
terrorist Hizbullah in Lebanon and Syria, the militias 
in  Yemen  and  the  terrorist  cells  and  groups  in  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
the State of Kuwait and the Republic of Iraq, as well 
as other countries that have suffered because of those 
hostile actions for such a protracted period.
We  believe  that  the  statement  by  the  American 
President before the General Assembly (see A/72/PV.3) 
presents an accurate interpretation that clearly denounces 
the  dangerous  nature  of  the  Iranian  rogue  regime, 
which undermines peace in the region. The world must 
confront that regime, stop it from pursuing its policies 
and financing of terrorism and oblige it to respect its 
neighbours’  sovereignty.  Since  we  always  aspire  to 
peace,  we  affirm  that  establishing  normal  ties  with 
Iran is subject to the latter relinquishing its hegemonic, 
sectarian and ideological policies. Iran must respect the 
national values of peoples and refrain from exporting 
its  revolution,  which  is  based  on  a  theocratic  system 
of government. It must abide by the principles of good 
neighbourliness  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of countries.
17-29807
15/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
We  also  call  on  Iran  to  end  its  occupation  of  the 
three  Emirati  islands  —  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser  Tunb 
and  Abu  Musa  —  and  to  respond  favourably  to  the 
peaceful  initiative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  to 
recoup  sovereignty  over  its  territories,  either  through 
direct  and  serious  negotiations,  or  by  referral  to  the 
International Court of Justice.
On the other hand, the Republic of Iraq, which has 
suffered for so long and is still suffering from foreign 
interference,  has  recently  achieved,  with  the  means 
available  to  it,  the  liberation  of  the  cities  of  Mosul 
and Tal Afar from the grip of Da’esh. That would not 
have  been  possible  without  the  immense  sacrifices 
by  the  Iraqi  armed  forces,  the  determination  by  the 
Government  under  Haider  Al  Abadi  and  the  support 
provided  by  the  Global  Coalition  against  Da’esh,  of 
which  Bahrain  is  an  active  member.  We  reaffirm  our 
constant  support  for  all  efforts  aimed  at  restoring 
peace and security throughout Iraq and preserving its 
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Republic  of 
Yemen,  we  reiterate  our  firm  position  of  support  for 
the  legitimate  Government  under  the  leadership  of 
President  Abdrabuh  Mansour  Hadi  Mansour.  We 
support  that  Government  through  our  participation 
in the Arab coalition to support legitimacy in Yemen 
and through our support for the measures taken by the 
legitimate  Government  to  extend  its  authority  over 
all  of  Yemeni  territory  and  to  put  an  end  to  militias 
that  attempt  coups  d’état  with  the  support  of  foreign 
powers.  We  support  the  Government’s  steps  to  reach 
a  comprehensive  political  solution  on  the  basis  of 
international mandates, notably the Gulf Cooperation 
Council Initiative and its Implementation Mechanism, 
the  outcomes  of  the  national  dialogue  and  Security 
Council  resolution  2216  (2015).  That  will  terminate 
all forms of foreign intervention and put an end to the 
critical humanitarian situation of the Yemeni people.
We  reaffirm  that  we  do  not  side  with  any  one 
Yemeni party against the other, but rather we oppose 
foreign  intervention  that  seeks  to  harm  this  beloved 
country. We appreciate the efforts of Mr. Ismail Ould 
Cheikh  Ahmed,  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-
General for Yemen.
We 
in 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  urge 
the 
international  community  to  exert  greater  efforts  to 
protect  civilians  and  save  their  lives,  to  compel  all 
parties  to  abide  by  the  ceasefire  decision  and  the 
establishment of the de-escalation zones, to guarantee 
access to besieged areas for the delivery of humanitarian 
assistance, and to intensify support to countries hosting 
large  numbers  of  our  Syrian  brethren,  most  notably 
the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. That is in addition 
to  pushing  forward  all  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  a 
political solution that would preserve Syria’s unity and 
territorial  integrity  while  ending  foreign  intervention 
in  its  internal  affairs.  The  solution  should  also  see 
the abolition of all terrorist organizations and provide 
peace and security to all Syrians so they can actively 
participate in the determination of their own future, on 
the  basis  of  the  first  Geneva  communiqué  (A/66/865, 
annex)  and  Security  Council  resolutions  2254  (2015) 
and 2268 (2016).
We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  Astana  talks 
and the action of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-
General  for  Syria,  Mr.  Staffan  de  Mistura,  in  the 
hope that they will contribute to the resolution of this 
protracted crisis.
In  Libya,  we  applaud  the  liberation  of  a  number 
of major cities from the hands of terrorist groups. We 
reaffirm  our  full  support  for  the  efforts  of  all  actors 
to achieve consensus among all Libyan parties and for 
the  implementation  of  the  political  agreement  signed 
in  Skhirat.  Those  efforts  include  those  by  Libya’s 
neighbouring  countries  and  the  meetings  held  in  the 
United Arab Emirates and the French Republic between 
Mr. Faiez Serraj, President of the Presidency Council of 
the Government of National Accord of Libya, and Field 
Marshal  Khalifa  Haftar,  Commander-in-Chief  of  the 
Libyan army. We hope that such efforts will continue 
with a view to preserving Libya’s unity and territorial 
integrity, consistent with the aspirations of the people 
for  development  and  progress.  We  also  welcome 
the  appointment  of  Mr.  Ghassan  Salamé  as  Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General in Libya and 
wish him every success.
With regard to the question of the Moroccan Sahara, 
the Kingdom of Bahrain reaffirms the need to support 
the  negotiations  aimed  at  achieving  a  consensual  and 
final political solution to that problem, in the context of 
national sovereignty of the Kingdom of Morocco and on 
the basis of relevant Security Council resolutions that 
confirm the seriousness of Morocco’s self-government 
initiative.  We  urge  all  parties  to  fully  cooperate  with 
the United Nations in that regard.
16/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
We  reiterate  our  total  objection  to  the  plight  of 
Muslims  in  Myanmar  as  a  result  of  excessive  use  of 
force. We call on the Myanmar Government to assume 
its responsibilities in protecting the Rohingya Muslims 
and to facilitate their access to all forms of relief and 
assistance so as to put an end to this human tragedy.
The Palestinian question is at the top of the foreign-
policy  priorities  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  which 
has  always  stood  with  the  Palestinian  people  in  their 
legitimate aspirations to enjoy all their legitimate rights, 
including an independent State with East Jerusalem as 
its  capital  and  within  the  borders  of  4  June  1967,  in 
conformity with the relevant international resolutions, 
the Arab Peace Initiative and the two-State solution.
We  welcome  the  positive  steps  taken  lately  by 
Palestinian factions to end their divisions in favour of 
the  vital  Palestinian  interests  through  political  work 
and non-violence. We commend the pivotal role played 
by His Excellency President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi of the 
Arab Republic of Egypt in that respect. It confirms the 
central  role  of  Egypt  in  the  support  of  causes  related 
to the Arab nation, of which it constitutes the strategic 
centre.  It  is  the  main  pillar  of  peace  and  security  in 
the region.
The  Palestinian  question  is  not  a  religious  issue. 
Palestine  is  the  cradle  of  religions  where  everyone 
lived in perfect harmony. Rather, it is a political issue 
par  excellence,  an  issue  of  territorial  occupation  that 
must  end.  Its  people  must  return  to  their  homeland. 
Rights  denied  must  be  restored  to  their  owners.  That 
precisely is what Israel, notwithstanding all its security 
concerns, should understand, for it will achieve peace 
for its people and for itself only when it abandons all 
forms of violence against Palestinians. It should halt its 
settlement activities and stop violating the sanctity of 
religious sites, especially the repeated aggressions and 
provocative  acts  in  the  holy  Al-Aqsa  Mosque,  which 
enrage  Muslims  all  over  the  world  and  impede  the 
resumption  of  the  peace  process  and  all  regional  and 
international initiatives in its support.
At  this  juncture,  we  wish  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation for the commendable work of the United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East and the substantial assistance 
it provides the Palestinians inside the territory and in 
the neighbouring countries.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  stresses  the  need  to 
achieve  universal  adherence  to  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  taking  into  account  the 
right of all peoples to use nuclear power for peaceful 
purposes. Also, Israel should implement the resolution 
issued by the 1995 Review and Extension Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons pertaining to a nuclear-weapon-free 
Middle  East.  Equally,  we  stress  the  need  for  Iran  to 
implement Security Council resolution 2231 (2015), on 
the  Iranian  nuclear  agreement,  including  those  parts 
concerning ballistic and other weapons. Iran will face 
severe sanctions if it violates the commitments outlined 
in  that  resolution  or  in  the  international  safeguard 
system  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency. 
Further, we welcome Security Council resolution 2375 
(2017), which pertains to new sanctions on North Korea, 
in view of its continued nuclear and ballistic missiles 
tests,  which  threaten  its  neighbours  and  international 
peace and security.
Since  its  inception  as  an  Arab  and  Islamic  entity 
in 1783, the Kingdom of Bahrain has firmly believed 
in the importance of collective action in the pursuit of 
security, development and prosperity. It orients all of its 
means toward the service of its people, its region and 
the  world  as  a  whole.  Since  time  immemorial,  Allah 
has  blessed  it  with  wise  leadership  that  has  inherited 
an  acute  sense  of  responsibility  for  the  achievement 
of  the  ultimate  objectives  of  ideal  relations  with 
its  neighbours.  It  will  steadfastly  follows  that  path 
and  will  never  go  astray.  It  will  remain  an  effective 
member of the international community and a trusted 
partner  in  its  Arab  and  Islamic  setting  and  will  hold 
onto that approach as the solid foundation of its foreign 
relations.  We  will  remain  open  to  all  cultures  and 
peoples, in the spirit of tolerance and moderation, and 
will pursue the path to progress and development with 
determination and perseverance in order to safeguard 
our achievements, development and prosperity.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Saleumxay  Kommasith,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Mr.  Kommasith 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  delegation 
of  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  I  would 
like  to  extend  my  congratulations  to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. 
I  am  confident  that  with  his  extensive  diplomatic 
experience,  he  will  guide  the  session  with  great 
success. We stand ready to extend our full support and 
17-29807
17/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
cooperation to him in the discharge of his noble duty. 
Likewise, let me extend my profound congratulations 
to His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson for the successful 
completion  of  his  tenure  as  the  President  of  the 
Assembly at its seventy-first session.
Once again, let me take this opportunity to extend 
my  congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  António 
Guterres on his appointment as the Secretary-General 
and for his initiative on the management reform of the 
United Nations, so that the Organization can respond 
effectively to the current global challenges. I hope that 
such efforts will contribute to the attainment of the aims 
and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations.
May I join other representatives in extending our 
deep sympathy to the countries of Latin America and 
the  Caribbean  that  have  been  severely  affected  by 
recent natural disasters.
took 
(Liberia),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Brown 
the Chair.
Today, the current global geopolitical landscape is 
fraught with myriad challenges that pose major threats 
to  peace  and  security  and  hamper  the  development 
of  countries  and  regions  of  the  world.  Therefore  our 
concerted  efforts  are  required  to  overcome  those 
obstacles  and  challenges  so  that  people  in  different 
countries and regions of the world can live their lives 
in durable peace and prosperity. That is why the theme 
chosen  for  the  seventy-second  session  —  “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on a sustainable planet” — is apt, as the international 
community  is  focusing  on  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which has 
promised to leave no one behind.
It is my firm belief that peace and security remain 
the common aspiration of the international community. 
Therefore,  in  order  to  maintain  and  promote  peace 
and development, it is incumbent upon us to enhance 
collaboration so that peace and sustainable development 
can  prevail  in  our  world.  The  United  Nations,  which 
is  the  only  universal  Organization  with  mandates 
to  maintain  and  promote  peace  and  cooperation  for 
development, has to be at the forefront. To realize those 
objectives, the United Nations needs to be reformed in 
such a way that it can respond to the current needs and 
pressing challenges of today.
of  mass  destruction.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the 
recent  adoption  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of 
Nuclear Weapons, which we also signed two days ago. 
However, we are well aware that we still have an uphill 
task ahead of us for the Treaty to enter into force and be 
effectively  implemented.  Therefore,  the  international 
community has to redouble its efforts in that respect.
Throughout 
the  past  decades,  we  have  seen 
that  many  countries  in  the  world  have  experienced 
sustained  economic  growth  and  rapid  development, 
which  have  lifted  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  out 
of poverty. That is thanks to peace and security, which 
have  been  essential  prerequisites  for  the  social  and 
economic  advancement  of  nations.  At  the  same  time, 
the  improvement  of  people’s  well-being  will  have  a 
positive  impact  on  political  stability  and  social  order 
and will help to reduce conflicts. Past experience shows 
that  settling  disputes  by  peaceful  means  and  through 
diplomatic  solutions  is  the  best  way  to  do  so,  as  it  is 
more durable and causes no loss of lives or property. 
Thus, it is important for the international community to 
further build mutual trust and flexibility and to jointly 
address the root causes of problems.
In that spirit, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
calls on all parties involved in disputes or conflicts in 
various  regions  of  the  world  to  exercise  the  utmost 
restraint and resolve such conflicts through diplomatic 
and  peaceful  means  so  as  to  de-escalate  tensions.  as 
we firmly believe that only a peaceful environment can 
form  a  foundation  for  advancing  national  social  and 
economic development.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  welcomes 
the  re-establishment  of  diplomatic  relations  between 
the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Republic  of 
Cuba  and  earnestly  hopes  that  such  relations  will  be 
enhanced,  leading  to  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  in 
the  near  future.  That  would  bring  about  real  benefits 
to  the  peoples  of  the  two  countries,  as  well  as  to 
the  region  and  the  world  at  large.  Likewise,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic  also  hopes  that  the 
Palestinian issue, which has lasted for many decades, 
will be resolved through peaceful means, with a view 
to  creating  two  independent  States  of  Palestine  and 
Israel, living side by side in peace, security and within 
internationally recognized borders, as stipulated in the 
relevant resolutions of the Security Council.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  earnestly 
hopes to see a world without nuclear and other weapons 
This  year,  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN) turns 50. Over the past five decades, 
18/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
ASEAN  has  gone  through  a  number  of  challenges 
and  has  adjusted  itself  to  the  changing  regional  and 
international  environment,  while  taking  into  account 
its  diversity  and  the  particularities  in  the  region.  It 
has  achieved  progress  gradually,  which  led  to  the 
establishment of the ASEAN Economic Community at 
the end of 2015.
The  most  remarkable  achievement  of  ASEAN  is 
its maintenance of peace, security and stability in the 
region, thus creating favourable conditions for ASEAN 
member  States  for  the  pursuit  of  their  socioeconomic 
development  and  regional  economic  integration.  At 
the same time, ASEAN has strengthened its relations 
with  external  parties,  especially  its  dialogue  partners 
in a substantive and comprehensive manner, based on 
mutual  benefit.  Importantly,  ASEAN  centrality  has 
been recognized by all external partners under ASEAN-
initiated  mechanisms.  Countries  in  the  region  and 
beyond are keen to forge cooperation with ASEAN, as 
it provides a venue for them to participate in discussions 
on  many  important  regional  and  international  issues 
of  common  interest  and  concern,  thereby  promoting 
mutual understanding and trust among participants, as 
well as peace, stability and development in the region 
and the world.
ASEAN’s  achievements  have  been  possible 
thanks  to  the  ASEAN  Way,  which  is  an  important 
factor,  especially  the  principles  of  consultation  and 
consensus and moving at a pace comfortable to all. The 
ASEAN  Way  signifies  ASEAN  centrality  and  unity. 
The ASEAN Way remains relevant, and ASEAN will 
continue to uphold its principles in the years to come.
for  Sustainable  Development.  Since 
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  attaches 
great  importance  to  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda 
its 
adoption,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
have been streamlined into our national socioeconomic 
development  plan  for  2016-2020,  and  a  national 
steering  committee  for  the  implementation  of  the 
SDGs,  which  is  chaired  by  our  Prime  Minister,  has 
been  formally  established.  At  the  High-level  Political 
Forum  on  Sustainable  Development  held  in  July,  the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic registered to submit 
and present our Voluntary National Review in 2018. All 
this has demonstrated our Government’s firm political 
will and unwavering commitment to implementing and 
achieving  the  SDGs,  as  well  as  to  building  a  strong 
foundation  to  support  our  country’s  aspirations  to 
graduate  from  the  status  of  least  developing  country 
by 2020.
In  pursuit  of  fostering  an  enabling  environment 
conducive  to  achieving  sustainable  development,  the 
Lao Government has undertaken an important initiative 
in adopting our national SDG 18, entitled “Lives Safe 
from UXO”, which was officially launched by our Prime 
Minister and former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in 
September 2016 on the sidelines of the eighth ASEAN-
United Nations summit in Vientiane. SDG 18 aims to 
address  specific  development  challenges  caused  by 
unexploded  ordnance  and  mitigate  its  impacts  on  the 
lives of our people, which will pave the way for improving 
the  livelihood  and  well-being  of  the  rural  population 
and enabling them to contribute to the implementation 
of the Agenda for Sustainable Development.
As  both  a  least  developed  country  (LDC)  and 
a  landlocked  country,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  encounters  various  challenges  that  hinder 
our  socioeconomic  development  and  the  achievement 
of  our  agreed  global  development  goals.  Against  that 
backdrop,  the  country  has  pursued  its  development 
through  the  implementation  of  our  eighth  five-year 
national socioeconomic development plan. The Strategy 
2025  and  the  Vision  2030  are  aimed  at  graduating 
from LDC status and becoming a high-middle-income 
country by 2030.
Towards  that  end,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic  pursues  a  policy  of  transforming  itself 
from  a  landlocked  country  into  a  land-linked  hub, 
facilitating  direct  connectivity  between  immediate 
neighbouring  countries  such  as  Viet  Nam,  Thailand 
and China, and the wider region. We hope to constitute 
a  part  of  the  production  and  supply  chains  through 
the  implementation  of  infrastructure  projects;  the 
improvement  of  logistics  and  transport  networks, 
such as the construction of a high-speed railway from 
Vientiane  to  Kunming,  in  southern  China;  and  the 
improvement  of  the  north-south  economic  corridor 
and  the  east-west  economic  corridor,  among  others. 
Those  national  strategies  are  being  implemented  as 
part of international and regional initiatives under way, 
including  the  ASEAN  Community  Vision  2025,  the 
ASEAN  Master  Plan  2025  and  China’s  One  Belt  and 
Road Initiative, of which the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic is a partner.
I am of the view that political will is a fundamental 
principle  for  attaining  all  agreed  development  goals. 
17-29807
19/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
Without  firm  political  commitment,  we  will  not  be 
able to turn the Agenda for Sustainable Development 
into  concrete  actions  and  outcomes.  Therefore,  my 
delegation  firmly  believes  that  development  remains 
an  integral  part  of  and  a  top  priority  for  ensuring 
international peace, security and human rights, all of 
which are closely linked.
Against that backdrop, we call on the international 
community to increase concerted efforts to ensure that 
development  brings  equal  benefits  for  all  countries. 
The  Lao  Government  once  again  reaffirms  its  strong 
commitment  and  determination  to  work  more  closely 
with  the  international  community  in  order  to  realize 
the 2030 Agenda and achieve our national development 
objectives  of  eradicating  poverty,  laying  a  solid 
foundation for graduation from LDC status, turning the 
country into an industrialized and modern nation and 
moving towards the direction of green and sustainable 
development  that  benefits  all  the  people,  thereby 
ensuring that no one in the country is left behind.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Simon Coveney, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Trade with responsibility for Brexit of Ireland.
Mr.  Coveney  (Ireland):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
offering  Ireland’s  sympathy  to  all  those  in  Mexico 
affected by the devastating earthquake earlier this week 
and to commend those who have been engaged in the 
heroic rescue operations of the last few days. I also want 
to extend condolences to the representatives of people 
in the Caribbean islands, who are facing extraordinary 
difficulties following the recent, relentless hurricanes.
Now is no time for business as usual at the United 
Nations.  The 
is  facing 
unprecedented challenges and must respond. I am here 
because  I  think  that  this  Organization  matters.  It  is 
an Organization that now faces daily challenges to its 
political authority and management missions.
international  community 
My country, Ireland, has kept faith with the United 
Nations  since  we  joined  as  a  young  republic  that  had 
fought  hard  for  its  own  independence  and  saw  being 
a  Member  of  the  United  Nation  as  fundamental  to 
its  future  and  the  future  security  of  its  people.  Over 
60  years  later,  we  still  do.  Our  faith  has  not  been 
misplaced, and it is as strong today as ever. However, 
we certainly have something to say about the future of 
the Organization and the role we believe it must play 
in reducing suffering across the globe and securing a 
shared peace and security and prosperity for everybody.
Given  our  history  as  a  small  country,  with  its 
own troubled past, we see very clearly the advantages 
of  a  rules-based  order  in  international  affairs.  It  is 
because Ireland is small, outward-looking and heavily 
dependent  on  external  trade  for  our  own  well-being 
that we pursue an active foreign policy.
As  Ireland’s  experience  in  the  European  Union 
has  shown  us,  we  are  far  stronger  acting  collectively 
than we are acting alone. Partnership and cooperation 
has  brought  peace  and  prosperity  to  the  European 
continent. In fact, for Ireland, our membership of the 
European  Union,  working  closely  with  other  member 
States,  has  strengthened  our  independence  and  self-
confidence and security rather than diminished it. It is 
therefore  through  collective  actions  that  we  reinforce 
our  own  security  and  well-being,  which  is  what  the 
United Nations needs to be all about.
for 
The  case 
international  cooperation  and 
multilateralism is compelling. By working together, we 
lay  foundations  of  trust,  align  our  perspectives  more 
closely  and  accept  our  differences  more  willingly. 
Perhaps most importantly, we build habits of cooperation 
that better allow us to address the common threats and 
opportunities  that  we  should  be  facing  together.The 
alternatives — unilateralism, transactional diplomacy, 
protectionism  and  confrontation  —  are  not,  in  fact, 
viable at all. Their short-term populist appeal obscures 
their  long-term  cost.  Surely  we  have  learned  that 
from history.
We  are  living  in  an  era  when  local  and  global 
challenges  are  intersecting  with  increasing  force. 
Today’s problems do not carry passports or recognize 
international borders. There are no unilateral solutions 
to  the  vast  majority  of  the  global  challenges  that  we 
face together. Local and regional issues, from climate 
change,  migration,  armed  conflict  and  hunger  to  the 
destruction of the marine environment in certain parts 
of the world, often become global issues, including in 
corners  of  the  world  that  are  far  from  the  origins  of 
the problems.
The  enormous  scale  of  the  challenges  that  face 
the  world  might  lead  some  to  question  whether 
multilateralism  and  the  United  Nations  are  up  to  the 
task. My response is that we can be, and we must be. 
When properly mobilized, when we pull together and 
move  from  debating  halls  like  this  Hall  to  actually 
getting  things  done  on  the  ground,  we  can  move 
mountains  together.  The  United  Nations  delivers 
20/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
extraordinary results, such as the Paris Agreement on 
Climate Change. The United Nations has led the global 
effort  to  eradicate  smallpox,  end  apartheid,  promote 
arms  control,  save  the  lives  of  millions  of  children 
through  UNICEF  and  protect  our  cultural  heritage 
through UNESCO.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
is  a  stand-out  recent  achievement.  The  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  have  the  power  and 
potential  to  transform  our  world,  addressing  the  root 
causes of poverty, inequality and instability. However, 
their potential can be realized only through a strong and 
confident  multilateral  system  that  empowers  Member 
States to reach the ambitious but necessary targets we 
have set ourselves. Having played an important role in 
facilitating agreement on the SDGs in 2015, Ireland is 
committed  to  their  implementation,  domestically  and 
through our foreign policy.
Failure  should  not  be  an  option  here.  The  United 
Nations  is  the  fulcrum  upon  which  we  can  leverage 
the  change  required.  However,  the  walls  dividing  the 
three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  —  development, 
human  rights,  and  peace  and  security  —  have  in  the 
past  impeded  our  efforts  to  accelerate  sustainable 
development.  In  my  view,  the  SDGs  represent  a 
fundamental  breakthrough,  recognizing  the  many 
aspects of sustainable development that straddle those 
pillars.  As  we  move  forward  on  implementation,  we 
must break down the Organization’s institutional silos, 
which sometimes hinder progress.
Since  we  gathered  here  a  year  ago,  we  appointed 
António  Guterres  as  Secretary-General. 
Ireland 
believes that he has the skills, experience and, perhaps 
most  importantly,  the  compassion  to  do  a  very  tough 
but  hugely  important  job.  The  difficult  international 
environment  demands,  more  than  ever,  brave  and 
principled leadership. We welcome the clear direction 
the Secretary-General is providing and the steps he is 
taking to reform the Organization.
While  we,  the  Member  States,  have  expressed 
confidence that the Secretary-General has the abilities 
to lead the United Nations forward at a time when the 
world is crying out for better multilateral engagement, 
we  must  allow  him  to  lead.  It  is  very  tempting  for 
Member States, particularly large ones, to micromanage 
the  work  of  the  Secretariat,  but  such  an  approach  is 
likely to impede and not enhance reform.
However,  it  is  not  enough  that  only  the  internal 
mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  meet  twenty-first 
century standards. United Nations political bodies must 
also reflect today’s world and realities. Nowhere is that 
more evident than with regard to the composition of the 
Security Council. The Security Council does not reflect 
the world that has evolved since the United Nations was 
established  in  1945.  Quite  plainly,  we  would  be  hard 
pressed to find any entity, public or private, anywhere 
in the world that remains so untouched by the changes 
and realities of the world around it.
Vast  areas  of  our  world  are  either  insufficiently 
represented  or  not  represented  at  all  on  the  Security 
Council. In our view, the need to increase the size of 
the Council is clear. Ireland sees the obvious need for a 
much stronger African representation on the Council, 
so that there can be a greater African say in the Council 
decisions  that  affect  their  continent.  We  would  also 
favour  consideration  of  a  designated  seat  for  small 
island developing States. Those changes are politically 
controversial, but we cannot ignore them forever.
The makeup of the Security Council is not the only 
problem. Let us be clear and honest. While the use or 
threat of the veto remains in place, as it does today, the 
work of the Council is often impeded and the United 
Nations can be paralysed in its capacity to respond to 
the gravest crises facing the international community. 
The  failure  of  the  Security  Council  to  take  action  in 
preventing mass atrocity crimes — most recently with 
regard to Syria, but also on other occasions — betrays 
victims and weakens the credibility of the Organization. 
The  case  for  reform  is  therefore  not  an  academic 
or  institutional  question;  it  is  a  deeper  question 
of  fundamental  legitimacy  and  effectiveness  and 
credibility for the United Nations in the future.
Although  geographically  a  small  island  on  the 
periphery  of  Europe,  Ireland’s  people  and  its  outlook 
are global, influenced by connecting with people and 
events  around  the  world,  as  we  do.  In  many  ways 
Ireland,  like  some  of  the  other  nations  represented 
here, is like a global tribe that extends far beyond our 
own island.
No part of our contribution to the United Nations 
resonates  more  with  Irish  people  than  our  United 
Nations  peacekeepers  — 
thousands  of  men 
and  women  who  have  served  under  Blue  Helmets, 
representing Ireland, our people and values. They are 
true ambassadors. Since 1958, when Irish troops first 
the 
17-29807
21/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
began serving the United Nations, not a single day has 
passed  without  Irish  participation  in  United  Nations 
peace-support  operations.  We  believe  that  we  are 
making a difference. Ireland’s peacekeepers have been 
natural  soldier-diplomats  in  trouble  spots  across  the 
globe, particularly in Africa and the Middle East, doing 
United Nations work day by day and deed by deed.
Today,  we  have  almost  550  troops  in  the  field. 
Ireland  is  the  highest  per  capita  European  Union 
contributor of troops to United Nations peacekeeping, 
with  deployments  to  six  United  Nations  missions 
across  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  We  are  making  a 
substantial contribution to the United Nations Interim 
Force in Lebanon in particular, where, as always, our 
peacekeepers  act  with  impartiality  and  integrity  and 
provide  the  necessary  leadership  required  in  a  very 
difficult and challenging environment.
I am pleased to note that Ireland is committed to 
doubling the number of women in our defence forces — I 
was the Minister for Defence when that decision was 
made — with the aim also of significantly increasing 
female participation in peacekeeping, a demand of the 
Secretary-General.  As  the  Secretary-General  said  at 
the  Security  Council  this  week  (see  S/PV.8051),  and 
as  we  know  from  the  women  and  peace  and  security 
agenda, increased female participation leads to better 
decision-making,  improved  situational  awareness,  a 
better  focus  on  protection  of  civilians  and  enhanced 
reporting of and accountability for sexual exploitation 
and abuse.
We  all  know  that  conflict  prevention  has  the 
potential  to  save  lives  and  to  protect  hard-won 
development  gains,  and  that  it  comes  at  a  far  lower 
financial  cost  than  peacekeeping  operations,  post-
conflict peacebuilding or, in some cases, State-building. 
We strongly support the Secretary-General’s efforts to 
reorient the international community’s thinking toward 
crisis  and  conflict  prevention.  Ireland  seeks  to  share 
our own national experience and past in our work on 
conflict  prevention,  mediation  and  State-building. 
We  have  made  some  mistakes,  but  we  have  also  had 
successes, and we would like others to share the lessons 
from that experience.
As  the  first  State  to  sign  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  in  1968,  we 
have  a  deep  commitment  to  its  full  implementation. 
Earlier  this  week  I  was  very  pleased  to  sign  the 
recently approved Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons,  which  was  supported  by  122  members  of 
this  Assembly,  and  growing.  Ireland  is  proud  to  have 
played a leadership role, together with Austria, Brazil, 
Mexico, Nigeria and South Africa, in bringing forward 
the  Assembly  resolution  convening  the  diplomatic 
conference that negotiated this ground-breaking treaty.
The  case  for  the  complete  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons  has  never  been  stronger,  as  the  volatile 
situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  makes  very  clear 
this week. I unreservedly condemn the recent series of 
missile and nuclear weapons testing by the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  These  developments 
highlight the urgent need for the swift and immediate 
entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Test-Ban 
Treaty.  I  understand  that  I  will  be  followed  today  on 
this  rostrum  by  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic, and I would urge him to de-escalate 
the  provocative  language  and  tensions  of  this  week. 
This is a conflict that the world does not need and must 
move away from.
scale 
humanitarian 
crises  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  facing  the 
international  community.  Ireland  is  committed  to 
providing  humanitarian  assistance  and  contributing 
to  international  efforts  to  ease  the  plight  of  civilians 
caught in conflicts in South Sudan, Syria, Yemen and 
Iraq,  to  name  but  a  few.  As  those  large-scale  crises 
dominate  the  headlines,  Ireland  is  conscious  of  the 
many forgotten or underfunded crises and the need to 
maintain  a  focus  on  ensuring  that  human  suffering, 
wherever it occurs in the world, is not ignored.
severity 
The 
and 
of 
The  vast  majority  of  displaced  people  are  being 
sheltered in communities that are already experiencing 
high  levels  of  vulnerability  and  poverty,  placing  a 
huge  strain  on  already  limited  resources.  Therefore 
Ireland  is  supporting  both  refugees  and  vulnerable 
host  communities  on  the  basis  of  need.  I  particularly 
want  to  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  so  many 
States  —  such  as  Jordan,  Lebanon,  Turkey,  Ethiopia, 
Kenya,  Uganda  and  many  more  —  that  are  hosting 
very large numbers of people displaced by conflicts in 
neighbouring countries.
Ireland 
is  proud  of 
its  strong  and 
targeted 
contribution  to  eradicating  global  hunger,  reducing 
extreme  poverty,  addressing  conflict  and  instability 
and  responding  to  humanitarian  crises  wherever  they 
occur.  It  is  horrifying  to  think  that  in  2017  we  have 
four  famines  affecting  more  than  20  million  people, 
22/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
70  per  cent  of  whom  are  children,  and  that  we  as  an 
international community have allowed that to happen, 
knowing  that  it  was  on  the  way.  For  Ireland,  strong 
partnerships, especially with least developed countries, 
will  remain  at  the  core  of  our  approach  as  we  work 
together  for  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  future.  We 
applaud  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  enhance 
coherence, effectiveness and accountability, as well as 
the delivery of results where it matters most — which 
is on the ground.
The Charter of the United Nations does not begin 
“We the Member States” but rather “We the peoples”. 
Our  policies  and  actions  must  reflect  the  inherent 
equality  of  humankind  at  the  core  of  our  multilateral 
system. In practice, that means listening to and heeding 
the voices of women, the voices of young people and 
the voices of the marginalized. The women and peace 
and  security  agenda  has  had  a  hugely  positive  global 
impact  with  the  realization  that  we  can  create  more 
durable and sustainable peace by working to ensure that 
women  play  their  rightful  role  in  conflict  prevention 
and  peacebuilding  efforts.  Ireland  will  play  our  part, 
including as Chair of the Commission on the Status of 
Women for the next two years.
A  similar  strategic  approach  must  also  be  taken 
in engaging young people in all our countries. Young 
people must have a role in shaping a future that they will 
ultimately inherit; otherwise, we are, on a generational 
basis, robbing a future from them. We have a phrase in 
Irish that the interpreters will not be able to translate: 
“Mol an óige agus tiocfaidh sí”. Broadly translated, this 
means “Praise the youth and they will come”. I cannot 
think  of  any  continent  where  that  is  more  relevant 
today than Africa. Young people are key to achieving 
the Sustainable Development Goals, and we must find 
ways to encourage their active participation, again and 
again and again, ensuring that they are part of shaping 
the solutions for their future.
signs: 
access 
to  good 
increasing 
There  are  positive 
the  vitality  of 
entrepreneurship,  the  creative  use  of  technology, 
infrastructure development, the potential of renewable 
energy, 
education, 
improvements  in  agricultural  yields,  adding  value 
to  commodities,  and  better  prospects  for  women  and 
girls  in  politics  and  economic  life.  African  countries 
are  particularly  affected  by  global  challenges  that  lie 
outside  their  control  in  many  ways,  such  as  climate 
change,  conflict  and  food  insecurity.  Those  issues 
can  be  addressed  only  in  their  African  contexts,  in  a 
spirit of effective global partnership. Such partnership 
requires understanding local perspectives anchored in 
local experience, particularly regarding how to tackle 
root causes.
I want Ireland to play a leading role in Europe in 
helping to build better and more effective partnerships 
with  the  continent  of  Africa  as  a  whole,  rooted  in 
shared  interests  and  values  and  sustained  over  the 
medium to long term on the basis of parity of esteem 
and equality. We need a new political architecture, in 
my  view,  for  the  relationship  between  the  European 
Union  and  Africa,  one  that  matches  the  urgency  and 
scale of the shared challenges we know we are going 
to face over the next twenty years. We are in the same 
global neighbourhood, and we need to put structures in 
place to treat each other as true neighbours.
The  Middle  East  is  also  part  of  Europe’s  close 
neighbourhood, and its challenges resonate deeply with 
the people of Ireland. The conflicts in Syria and Yemen 
have  caused  untold  suffering.  Ireland  has  responded 
as  generously  as  we  can  with  almost  €100  million  in 
humanitarian  aid,  but  what  the  people  of  Syria  and 
Yemen need most right now is peace to enable them to 
rebuild  their  lives  and  start  the  process  of  rebuilding 
their countries. I urge all sides in the two conflicts to 
work for an end to violence and to engage in the search 
for  peaceful  political  solutions  under  United  Nations 
auspices and for accountability for crimes committed.
Ireland is committed to constructive and principled 
diplomatic  action  on  the  Middle  East  peace  process. 
Next  year  will  be  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the 
signing of the Oslo Accords. We cannot let ourselves 
become  complacent  about  the  status  quo  because  the 
status  quo  is  not  acceptable,  and  we  know  where  it 
is  going.  We  cannot  let  our  efforts  to  achieve  peace 
stagnate either. Palestinians need an end to occupation, 
and  Israelis  need  security.  Continued  construction  of 
settlements  undermines  both  objectives,  and  we  need 
to act on that. I wish the United States success in its 
efforts to build some momentum for peace and a new 
peace initiative for the first time in quite some time.
Ireland will give all the support it can to achieving 
a  two-State  solution,  which  we  remain  convinced  is 
the only way to secure prosperity and security for both 
peoples.  The  time  to  act  on  this  is  now.  We  cannot 
become cynical or jaded. We owe it to all Palestinians 
and  Israelis  to  continue  to  bring  energy,  resolve  and 
ideas to the table and help them finally deliver a lasting 
17-29807
23/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
peace, which would not only be good for both of those 
peoples, but also a welcome, if not a desperately needed, 
positive news story for the broader Middle East as well.
In relation to Myanmar, Ireland strongly condemns 
the violence in Rakhine state that has driven hundreds 
of  thousands  from  their  homes  into  neighbouring 
Bangladesh. Here at the General Assembly we have to 
insist  on  an  end  to  violence,  to  the  upholding  of  the 
rule of law and the recognition of the right of return of 
all those who have been forced to leave their country. 
I  know  the  situation  is  difficult  —  my  friend  from 
Singapore  has  highlighted  its  complexities  —  but  we 
have to ensure that standards are met.
Ireland sees itself as a natural child of the United 
Nations.  We  are  small.  We  are  an  island  that  has 
experienced  colonization  and  conflict,  as  many  of  us 
here have also done. But here at the United Nations, we 
listen to others, especially if we hold a different view 
on an issue or a policy. We are convinced that in today’s 
globalized  world  we  must  live  in  each  other’s  shelter 
and not in each other’s shadow.
Ireland’s  contribution  to  the  United  Nations  in 
the  fields  of  sustainable  development,  humanitarian 
assistance, disarmament, human rights and the rule of 
law has been steadfast. United Nations membership has 
been and will continue to be at the very heart of Irish 
foreign policy. Ireland is proud to be a candidate for a 
seat on the Security Council in the elections to be held 
in  2020.  We  have  presented  our  candidature  because 
we  believe  deeply  that  we  should  step  forward  and 
play  our  part  in  support  of  multilateralism  at  a  time 
of  significant  global  instability  and  realignment  of 
geopolitical influences.
We  have  something  to  say,  and  we  will  listen  to 
others  when  they  speak.  We  will  be  courageous  on 
behalf  of  the  United  Nations  when  needed.  With 
Ireland, the world knows what it gets — a small country 
with big thinking, a country that listens and a strong 
independent voice that promotes the values that should 
inspire the Organization in future.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His Excellency Mr. Ri Yong Ho, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr. Ri Yong Ho (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea) (spoke in Korean; English text provided by the 
delegation): First of all, allow me to congratulate His 
Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election as the 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session.  I  look  forward  to  the  successful  outcome  of 
this session, which will unfold under his able guidance.
Before going into the main points in my remarks, 
I feel obligated to make comments on the speech made 
some  four  days  ago  by  someone  called  the  United 
States  President,  which  tainted  this  sacred  United 
Nations  forum  (see  A/72/PV.3).  Since  Trump  uttered 
such reckless and violent words from this very rostrum, 
attacking  the  supreme  dignity  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, I think it is fair for me to 
respond in a corresponding tone.
During  his  eight  months  in  power,  he  has  turned 
the White House into a noisy marketplace filled with 
the crackling sounds of abacus beads. Now he has tried 
to  turn  the  United  Nations  forum  into  a  gangster’s 
nest where only money is respected and bloodshed is 
the  order  of  the  day.  The  absurd  reality  of  a  person 
like  Trump  —  a  mentally  deranged  and  complacent 
megalomaniac, a person who is even chastised by some 
Americans  as  “Commander-in-Grief”,  “Lyin’  King” 
and “President Evil” — holding the office of President 
of the United States, and, indeed, the dangerous reality 
of  an  aging  gambler  using  threats,  fraud  and  every 
other type of schemes to acquire a patch of land having 
his finger on the nuclear button, are what constitute the 
gravest threat to international peace and security today.
Due  to  his  lack  of  basic  common  knowledge  and 
appropriate feelings, he has tried to insult the supreme 
dignity  of  my  country  by  referring  to  its  leader  as 
“rocket man”. By doing so, however, he has committed 
the irreversible error of making our rockets rain down 
on  the  entire  United  States  mainland  all  the  more 
inevitable.  No  one  other  than  Trump  himself  is  on  a 
suicide  mission.  Should  innocent  lives  in  the  United 
States  be  harmed  by  his  suicidal  inclinations,  Trump 
will be held totally responsible.
Our respected Supreme Leader Comrade Kim Jong 
Un responded to Trump’s statement:
“As a man who represents the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  on  behalf  of  the  dignity 
and  honour  of  my  State  and  my  people,  and  on 
my  own  behalf,  I  will  make  the  man  holding  the 
prerogative of the supreme command in the United 
States pay dearly for his speech calling for the total 
destruction  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea.”
24/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
Trump may not have been aware of what he uttered, 
but  we  will  make  sure  that  he  bears  consequences 
far  beyond  his  words  and  far  beyond  the  scope  of 
what he can handle — even if he claims to be able to 
handle anything.
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  during  the 
Cold  War  period  and  further  intensified  their  scope 
and  aggressive  nature  after  the  Cold  War  by  staging 
them more frequently — several times a year — and by 
mobilizing more strategic nuclear assets.
The 
theme  of 
the  seventy-second  session 
is 
“Focusing on people: Striving for peace and a decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”. For all countries and 
peoples to enjoy peace and a decent life, it is imperative 
that  genuine  international  justice  be  realized  before 
anything else. Realizing international justice is one of 
the principal missions of the United Nations.
As Article 1 of the Charter of the United Nations 
stipulates, one of the purposes of the United Nations is
“to  bring  about  by  peaceful  means,  and  in 
conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and 
international  law,  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international  disputes  or  situations  which  might 
lead to a breach of the peace”.
However, due to the high-handedness and arbitrariness 
of  one  particular  large  Power,  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  other  established  basic 
principles  of  international  relations  are  at  present 
being  wantonly  ignored  in  the  United  Nations  arena. 
Conspiracies  to  commit  abnormal  acts  that  justify  or 
legitimize  high-handedness  and  arbitrariness  or  acts 
that violate truth and justice are tolerated or supported.
The most flagrant violation of international justice 
can  be  seen  in  the  handling  of  the  situation  on  the 
Korean  peninsula.  Unprecedented  acts  of  injustice, 
including harsh sanctions imposed on a victim that has 
chosen to stand up to an offender, are openly committed 
in the name of the United Nations. The essence of the 
situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  a  confrontation 
between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
and  the  United  States,  where  the  former  is  trying  to 
defend its national dignity and sovereignty against the 
latter’s hostile policies and nuclear threats.
The United States is the country that first produced 
nuclear weapons and the only country to have actually 
used  them,  massacring  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
innocent  civilians.  The  United  States  threatened  to 
use  nuclear  weapons  against  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  during  the  Korean  War  in  the 
1950s  and  first  introduced  nuclear  weapons  to  the 
Korean  peninsula  after  that  war.  The  United  States 
started large-scale joint military exercises against the 
What could be a bigger threat than the use of the 
words  “fire  and  fury”  and  “total  destruction”,  in  the 
statement made by the President of the world’s biggest 
nuclear  Power?  The  United  States  is  the  very  reason 
that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
to  possess  nuclear  weapons.  We  have  had  to  develop 
and  strengthen  our  nuclear  arsenal  to  current  levels 
so that we could cope with the threats of that country. 
The hostile policies and nuclear threats of the United 
States have continued for over 70 years, which has led 
to  a  touch-and-go  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula. 
Further,  due  to  the  high-handedness  of  the  United 
States,  the  United  Nations  has  adopted  unjustifiable 
resolutions that are the embodiment of injustice.
Our respected Supreme Leader Comrade Kim Jong 
Un, Chairman of the Workers’ Party of Korea, Chairman 
of  the  State  Affairs  Commission  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Supreme  Commander  of 
the Korean People’s Army, has said that international 
justice  is  never  achieved  in  a  vacuum.  Rather,  it  can 
be  achieved  only  when  independent,  anti-imperialist 
countries are strong enough to demand it.
justice, 
the  only 
philosophical principle that remains valid is that force 
must  be  addressed  with  force.  Nuclear  weapons  of 
tyranny must therefore be met with the nuclear hammer 
of  justice.  Pursuant  to  this  principle,  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea’s use of nuclear deterrence 
is a righteous act of self-defence, and a last resort.
international 
Absent 
true 
As  part  of  its  efforts  to  achieve  the  goal  of 
becoming  a  nuclear-weapon  State,  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  recently  conducted  the 
successful test of a hydrogen bomb that can be mounted 
on  an  intercontinental  ballistic  missile  (ICBM).  With 
this  step,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
is in the process of consolidating its status as a nuclear 
Power, consistent with its double aim of developing its 
economy  and  its  nuclear  arsenal.  For  all  intents  and 
purposes, our nuclear weapons are a deterrent designed 
to put an end to the nuclear threat of the United States 
and to prevent a military invasion by that country. Our 
ultimate goal is to establish a balance of power with the 
United States.
17-29807
25/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
Everyone present in this Hall today is aware that, 
at  every  stage  in  the  development  and  growth  of  its 
nuclear  arsenal,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  unlike  other  nuclear-weapon  States,  has  never 
failed to disclose its testing or the results of its testing. 
Since we have sufficiently strengthened our deterrent 
with a view to safeguarding the peace and security of 
the Korean peninsula and the region, the United States 
and its followers must now think twice before launching 
a military provocation against the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea.
Although the United States speaks of fire and fury 
and  total  destruction,  inter  alia,  every  time  it  makes 
such provocations it is compelled to use qualifiers such 
as  “hopefully  that  will  not  be  necessary”  or  “that  is 
not  our  first  option”  and  so  on.  Accordingly,  we  are 
convinced that our actions have helped to consolidate 
the  peace  and  security  of  North-East  Asia  and  the 
region as a whole as much as possible.
We  do  not  need  anyone  else  to  recognize  our 
status as a nuclear-weapon State or our nuclear-strike 
capability. As it flew through the endless blue sky in the 
recent ballistic test, our ICBM etched the sacred name 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  across 
the universe. The rocket’s warhead left its trace on the 
blue waves of the Pacific Ocean, and the tremendous 
explosion  and  vibrations  caused  by  the  hydrogen 
bomb were recorded all over the planet. Although our 
decision to opt for possession of nuclear weapons was 
forced upon us by the United States, it has resulted in 
our  country  achieving  the  status  of  a  nuclear-weapon 
State  and  a  rocket-possessing  Power.  The  attendant 
prestige has become a part of the immortal destiny of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
The failure of the United Nations to fulfil its role 
of realizing genuine international justice is a primary 
result  of  the  undemocratic  and  antiquated  practices 
of  the  Security  Council.  For  it  is  none  other  than  the 
Security  Council  that  disregards  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  acts  only  to  satisfy  the  will  and 
interests  of  its  permanent  members.  It  is  not  a  trivial 
detail  that  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform  was 
raised  as  early  as  1992,  at  the  forty-seventh  session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  in  resolution  47/62.  Since 
then,  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform  has  been 
discussed at the General Assembly every year for the 
past  25  years,  without  any  progress  whatsoever.  It  is 
therefore  clear  how  deeply  the  current  permanent 
members  are  fixated  on  their  anachronistic  vested 
interests.  One  permanent  member  alone  can  veto  the 
general will of over 190 States Members of the United 
Nations, which is a testament to how undemocratic the 
Security Council is.
In  this  Hall  today,  I  would  like  once  again  to 
reiterate the unjust and unfair nature of the resolutions 
adopted by the Security Council against the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  First  of  all,  relying  on  a 
double  standard,  the  Security  Council  has  adopted 
illegal resolutions that prohibit the launch of satellites 
by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Such 
prohibition  violates  international  law,  which  provides 
for the peaceful use of outer space as a sovereign right 
of  every  State.  The  Security  Council  takes  no  issue 
with any other satellite-launching countries.
Secondly,  also  in  reliance  on  a  double  standard, 
the  Security  Council  has  adopted  illegal  resolutions 
that arbitrarily prohibit nuclear tests by the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, despite the fact that nuclear 
testing is the strict sovereign right of every State, since 
the  international  law  on  the  prohibition  of  nuclear 
testing has not yet entered into force. In addition, other 
countries  have  conducted  far  more  nuclear  tests  than 
we have.
Thirdly, the Security Council has condemned the 
development  of  nuclear  weapons  by  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea as a threat to international 
peace and security and, on that basis, once again relying 
on a double standard, has fabricated illegal resolutions 
that contravene Article 51 of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  which  recognizes  every  State’s  right  to  self-
defence.  The  Security  Council  has  taken  such  action 
without  calling  into  question  other  countries  that 
continue to develop nuclear weapons of various kinds.
The reason that those unjust and unfair resolutions 
continue to be adopted is that the permanent members 
of the Security Council — all nuclear Powers — have 
a  shared  interest  in  maintaining  their  monopoly  on 
nuclear status. The permanent members of the Security 
Council  often 
the  non-proliferation  of 
nuclear  weapons.  However,  in  the  context  of  nuclear 
non-proliferation,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea’s possession of nuclear weapons is a justified 
measure  of  self-defence.  Indeed,  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) was made 
possible because nuclear-weapon States had promised 
not  to  threaten  non-nuclear-weapon  States  with  their 
nuclear arsenals. Article X of the NPT stipulates that 
talk  of 
26/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
each  party  shall  have  the  right  to  withdraw  from  the 
Treaty if it decides that its supreme interests have been 
jeopardized. This Article recognizes that the supreme 
interests of States supersede nuclear non-proliferation. 
In  the  end,  the  United  States  has  itself  impeded 
international efforts aimed at nuclear non-proliferation 
by refusing to give up making nuclear threats against 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Rather, its 
behaviour has compelled the latter to strive to possess 
nuclear weapons.
to  constrain 
The  foregoing  eloquently  demonstrates  that  the 
resolutions  adopted 
the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  are  not  based  on  any 
established principle, but are simply the product of the 
undemocratic and antiquated practices of the Security 
Council and the conspiracy and collusion of forces that 
are obsessed with their own interests alone. The United 
States makes the claim, even here at the United Nations, 
that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s 
possession  of  hydrogen  bomb  and  intercontinental 
ballistic missiles constitutes a global threat. However, 
such  a  claim  is  a  big  lie  tantamount  to  the  notorious 
big lie conjured up by the United States in 2003 about 
the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq in 
order to justify invading that country.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
is  a  responsible  nuclear-weapon  State.  We  will 
take  preventive  measures  in  the  form  of  merciless 
pre-emptive action in the event that the United States 
or its vassal forces show any sign of undertaking any 
sort  of  decapitating  operation  on  our  headquarters  or 
other  military  attack  against  our  country.  However, 
we  have  no  intention  whatsoever  to  use  or  threaten 
to  use  nuclear  weapons  against  the  countries  that  do 
not join in a United States military action against the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
The  United  States  is  resorting  to  intrigue  when 
it  condemns  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea’s  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  as  a  global 
threat.  It  is  simply  using  that  fact  as  a  pretext  for 
coercing other States Members of the United Nations 
into  implementing  the  sanctions  resolutions  against 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  It  is  a 
sneaky and selfish attempt by the United States to shirk 
its  responsibility  on  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean 
peninsula  and  pursue  its  own  interests  by  using  and 
sacrificing other countries that have nothing to do with 
the issue.
The  Government  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  requested  the  United  Nations 
Secretariat  to  organize  a  forum  of  international  law 
experts to assess the legal grounds and lawfulness of 
the  Security  Council  resolutions,  but  we  have  had  no 
response for nine months. Previously, the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea had made repeated requests 
to  the  Security  Council  to  discuss  the  serious  threat 
to  international  peace  and  security  posed  by  the 
large-scale,  aggressive  and  provocative  joint  military 
exercises  undertaken  by  the  United  States  and  South 
Korea,  but  each  of  these  requests  was  turned  down 
and  the  issue  has  never  been  put  on  the  Security 
Council’s agenda.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  stipulates  that 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  accept  and  carry  out 
the decisions of the Security Council. If the resolutions 
on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea adopted 
at the Security Council were truly lawful and fair, there 
would be no need at all for United States ambassadors 
abroad,  and  even  the  United  States  President  and 
the  Secretary  of  State,  to  coerce  other  countries  into 
implementing the resolutions. Furthermore, the United 
States would not have to bring its stooges, for example, 
South Korea and Japan, into the matter.
The States Members of the United Nations should 
not give in to pressure exerted by an individual major 
Power on implementing Security Council resolutions. 
Rather,  they  should  make  an  independent  judgment 
on  the  legality,  impartiality  and  morality  of  such 
resolutions  and  contribute  to  promoting  Security 
Council reform by further raising their voices against 
high-handedness and arbitrariness.
The United States imposed sanctions on our country 
from  the  very  first  day  that  it  was  founded,  and  the 
history of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
which spans more that 70 years, is in a sense a history 
of struggle where its people have had to persevere on 
the  road  of  self-development  despite  being  under  the 
world’s harshest sanctions. Through such a prolonged 
arduous struggle, we are at last only a few steps away 
from the final stage of completing the State’s nuclear 
force.  The  possibility  that  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea might be shaken an inch or change 
its stance as a result of harsher sanctions imposed by 
hostile forces is a vain hope.
In  the  near  future,  the  day  will  certainly  come 
when we will settle the account for all damages caused 
17-29807
27/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
to  our  peaceful  economic  development  and  to  the 
improvement of our people’s lives. All of the sufferings 
of our innocent women, children and elderly caused by 
the heinous and barbaric sanctions against our Republic 
will  one  day  be  redressed.  The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea has established a Sanctions Damage 
Investigation  Committee  to  make  a  comprehensive 
study of the total damages inflicted on our Republic by 
all forms of sanctions. The Committee will thoroughly 
investigate and compile all physical and moral damage 
imposed  on  my  country  by  the  United  States  and  its 
followers,  including  by  those  that  have  submitted  to 
United  States  coercion.  When  the  pressure  caused 
by  this  sanctions  racket  reaches  a  critical  point  and 
drives  the  Korean  peninsula  into  an  uncontrollable 
situation,  the  investigation  results  of  this  Committee 
will  provide  an  evidentiary  basis  for  holding  those 
responsible accountable.
My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  extend 
its  strong  support  to  and  solidarity  with  the  Cuban 
Government and the people who are fighting to defend 
their  national  sovereignty  and  realize  international 
justice  against  the  high-handedness  and  arbitrariness 
in  the  form  of  the  unilateral  embargo  by  the  United 
States. We also express strong support to and solidarity 
with the Government and the people of Venezuela, who 
are  fighting  to  defend  their  national  sovereignty  and 
the cause of socialism.
Such unjust and contemptible acts as the turning of 
a blind eye to Israel’s heinous acts while condemning in 
every possible way the Syrian Government for fighting 
to protect its national sovereignty and security should 
no longer be tolerated.
In conclusion, the Government of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  defend  its  national 
peace and security using its powerful nuclear deterrent 
and  will  contribute  to  safeguarding  world  peace 
and security.
Mr. 
  Al-Jafari 
delegation 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ibrahim Abulkarim Al-Jafari, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Iraq.
(Iraq) 
in  Arabic): 
My 
congratulate 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák upon his election as President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
We  also  congratulate  the  Republic  of  Slovakia  and 
wish Mr. Lajčák the greatest success in this role. We 
also thank his predecessor, Mr. Peter Thomson, for his 
first  wishes 
(spoke 
to 
efforts and wise leadership in guiding the work of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-first session.
We wish to express our condolences to the victims 
of  the  natural  disasters  that  have  struck  the  United 
States  of  America,  Mexico  and  other  States  in  the 
Caribbean region.
The heroic Iraqi forces won a historic victory that 
put an end to the myth of the extremist-terrorist State 
in Mosul. Through their great sacrifices and with the 
assistance of brother countries, the valiant Iraqi forces 
recaptured the city of Mosul. The Iraqi Armed Forces 
are fighting several towns, including Tal Afar, which 
has  just  been  liberated.  They  have  also  contributed, 
through all their branches, to shutting down all terrorist 
hotbeds in certain other Iraqi cities, such as Hawija.
I therefore wish today to congratulate our Armed 
Forces and our proud people who made many sacrifices. 
I  hail  all  honourable  members  of  the  civilized  world 
who  supported  Iraq  and  its  brave  forces  in  the  fight 
against  the  terrorist  bands  from  the  Islamic  State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Levant,  also  known  as  Da’esh.  We 
scored  a  major  victory  without  shirking  our  duty  to 
protect civilians, who were used as human shields by 
terrorists,  or  failing  to  respect  the  unity,  sovereignty 
and  the  territorial  integrity  of  Iraq.  All  branches  of 
the  Iraqi  Armed  Forces,  the  Iraqi  police,  the  Popular 
Mobilization  Forces,  the  Peshmerga  forces  and  other 
anti-terrorist forces contributed to this historic victory.
It  is  also  a  victory  for  the  entire  world.  Even 
though  the  war  had  been  raging  in  Iraq,  it  affected  a 
vast  number  peaceful  of  citizens  in  some  120  other 
States.  History  teaches  us  that  post-conflict  periods 
can  be  even  more  challenging  than  wartime.  Indeed, 
efforts  to  restore  stability,  undertake  reconstruction 
and  resurrect  hope  after  the  liberation  of  Iraqi  cities, 
through  great  sacrifices  on  the  humanitarian  and 
development  fronts  and 
the  environment,  which 
deteriorated  badly.  Moreover,  Da’esh  also  conducted 
environmental  terrorism  by  setting  fire  to  oil  wells, 
destroying small dams and flooding agricultural lands. 
It has also destroyed our cultural heritage sites.
Today, Iraq is entering a new phase in its just fight 
against Da’esh bands to respond to the challenges of the 
post-Da’esh period, including the financial challenges 
of lower oil prices on international markets. We have 
developed a comprehensive vision for our future that is 
based on social, economic and security priorities that 
28/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
serve  Iraq  and  its  citizens.  This  vision  comprises  the 
following main axes. 
First, we are restoring security, stability and basic 
services,  allowing  people  to  return  to  their  homes 
and  participate  in  the  reconstruction  of  all  that  was 
destroyed by Da’esh, and caring for the families of the 
martyrs  and  victims  who  paid  the  ultimate  price  in 
defending our State. Also, we are caring for the victims 
of  terrorism,  rehabilitating  societies  so  that  no    trace 
remains of Da’esh or the culture of hatred and violence, 
mobilizing all national efforts to achieve those national 
and humanitarian objectives.
Second,  we  are  ensuring  respect  and  peaceful 
coexistence among all members of society, regardless 
of religion, ideology or intellectual affiliation. We have 
fostered a spirit of confidence and mutual trust among 
our  citizens  and  are  protecting  minorities  and  houses 
of worship of all religions, which is the basis for social 
reconciliation.
Third, we will prevent the return of the abnormal 
practices  and  phenomena  that  were  present  in  Iraq 
before Da’esh took control of parts of the country, in 
particular,  the  sectarian  and  nationalist  isolationism 
that were to detrimental to the best interests of the State. 
Such  phenomena  made  it  possible  for  Da’esh  to  take 
over  cities  and  control  governorates.  We  will  appeal 
to the population’s spirit of citizenship and desire for 
unity and cooperation, so that neither Da’esh nor any 
other terrorist organization can return to Iraq by giving 
coverage or protection in the areas we have retaken.
Fourth,  we  believe  that  it  is  important  to  foster 
a  spirit  of  good-neighbourliness  based  on  the  shared 
interests  of  all  States  and  work  according  to  our 
national  will  and  independent  decision-making.  We 
will not give in to foreign pressure.
Fifth, we will keep arms exclusively in the hands of 
our national security forces, putting an end to all armed 
incidents and reviving the rule of law in all sectors of 
the State.
Sixth, we will continue our formidable fight against 
corruption  in  all  of  its  forms  and  manifestations, 
because it is fertile ground for terrorism and crime.
Seventh,  State 
institutions  must  be  sheltered 
from  political  interference  and  favouritism  in  order 
to foster justice and equal opportunities and to attract 
highly  specialized  professionals 
the  public-
sector workforce.
into 
Iraq is a united, independent and sovereign federal 
State. It is a State based on a federal Constitution adopted 
in 2005 by Iraqis from all components of society in a 
transparent and democratic referendum that enjoyed a 
high degree of participation. The Constitution respects 
all  rights  and  obligations  of  all  components  of  Iraqi 
society and reinforces the value of citizen participation 
in democratic political processes and effective political 
representation 
independent 
bodies. Attention has been paid to making it possible 
for  all  parties  concerned  to  exercise  their  rights  and 
responsibilities  and  participate  in  political,  social, 
cultural  and  linguistic  events  —  something  that  is 
lacking in many ethnically and religiously diversified 
states. The Government of Iraq continues to encourage 
cohesiveness among all members of society.
in  all  ministries  and 
With  regard  to  the  relationship  between  the 
federal  Government  and  the  Regional  Government 
of  Kurdistan,  the  Government  is  promoting  and  will 
continue  to  promote  constructive  dialogue  to  resolve 
all  outstanding  issues  with  the  Regional  Government 
of  Kurdistan,  without  preconditions.  We  have  not 
accepted the unconstitutional decision adopted by the 
Iraqi  Kurdistan  region,  nor  will  we  abandon  Iraq’s 
unity,  which  is  guaranteed  by  the  Constitution.  The 
National  Assembly  and  its  representatives,  in  the 
interests  of  Iraq’s  unity,  voted  to  reject  the  so-called 
referendum. It mandated the national Iraqi Government 
to  take  measures  to  preserve  the  country’s  unity  and 
address  the  pending  issue,  based  on  Article  1  of  the 
Constitution, which stipulates that the unity of Iraq is 
one and its sovereignty is indivisible. The Government, 
in  conformity  with  its  responsibilities,  has  asked  the 
Supreme Court to issue an order rejecting the so-called 
referendum, which is supposed to be held in Kurdistan 
on 25 September. It is a violation of the Constitution, 
particularly  with  respect  to  the  status  of  disputed 
regions  characterized  by    multinationalism    and  a 
multi-religious frame of mind.
In  the  first  three  months  of  next  year,  Iraq  will 
organize  legislative  and  parliamentary  elections.  All 
political  forces  in  the  country  have  already  begun  to 
prepare  for  these  elections.  Through  this  democratic 
process,  Iraq’s  pluralist  political  system  will  be 
strengthened,  thereby  ensuring  the  political  stability 
that  will  protect  Iraq  against  future  crises.  These 
successes  will  also  make  it  possible  to  consolidate 
economic progress and the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development in the country.
17-29807
29/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
With  regard  to  our  relations  with  the  United 
Nations, we are working with all stakeholders to address 
pending issues in the Security Council, with a view to 
being released from the burden of commitments made 
by  previous  Iraqi  Governments.  We  have  done  this 
gradually, duly respecting international obligations, so 
that Iraq can resume the status it had enjoyed before the 
adoption of resolution 661 (1990).
Iraq’s  deeply  held  sense  of  responsibility  has 
included  respecting  Security  Council  resolutions 
on  it  and  on  relations  between  Iraq  and  Kuwait.  We 
have taken all of the necessary measures to implement 
resolution 1958 (2010) on the Oil-for-Food Programme. 
We  still  face  the  issue  of  Kuwait’s  compensation. 
Negotiations with our Kuwaiti brothers have begun to 
settle the issue.
On  21  September,  the  Security  Council  adopted 
the historic resolution 2379 (2017) to collect evidence 
on the criminal activities perpetrated by Da’esh in Iraq 
and  other  States.  This  resolution  establishes  a  joint 
investigative  mechanism  that  will  comprise  judges, 
prosecutors and Iraqi’s criminal experts, working with 
international experts to collect, compile and preserve 
evidence  against  Da’esh  in  Iraq.  We  are  doing  our 
utmost  to  ensure  that  Da’esh  is  brought  to  justice  for 
the  crimes  it  committed  in  Iraq,  especially  genocide, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  Resolution 
2379 (2017) is based on the essential pillars of respect 
for  Iraqi  sovereignty  and  legal  jurisdiction  when  it 
comes  to  the  collection  of  evidence  of  crimes  Da’esh 
has committed. We appeal to Member States to provide 
the  necessary  financial  resources  and  other  forms  of 
support to the joint investigative team.
From  this  rostrum,  Iraq  calls  for  assistance  from 
kindred  nuclear-power  countries  to  build  a  nuclear 
reactor  for  peaceful  purposes  in  our  country.  Iraq 
wishes  to  acquire  nuclear  technology  and  relaunch 
various technological sectors on the basis of the right of 
States to develop nuclear power for peaceful purposes, 
in  accordance  with  article  IV  of  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which provides 
that States, particularly developing countries, have the 
inalienable  right  to  pursue  research  and  develop  and 
use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes without any 
discrimination whatsoever.
My  country’s  Government  takes  note  of  the 
threats  to  peace,  security,  stability  and  development 
throughout  the  world,  which  calls  for  a  dialogue 
between the various cultures and civilizations. Events 
in  a  number  of  geographic  regions  reaffirm  the 
importance  of  reinforcing  the  culture  of  peace  and 
strengthening  its  place  on  the  General  Assembly’s 
agenda, especially since Member States have adopted 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  16,  on  peaceful  and 
inclusive societies.
Peaceful 
among 
peoples 
coexistence 
and 
communities  cannot  take  place  without  tolerance, 
because  tolerance  is  the  surest  way  of  establishing 
modern  communities,  strengthening  social  linkages 
and  enriching  exchanges  among  various  societies. 
We  cannot  dispute  the  fact  that  the  best  way  of 
tolerance  and 
re-establishing 
for  strengthening  sustainable  development 
is  by 
ensuring  that  there  are  equal  chances  for  everybody 
and  a  fair  distribution  of  national  resources,  without 
discriminating on the basis of race or religion.
lasting  peace  and 
Nor can we overlook the role of religious and social 
leaders to spread the culture of peace in our countries, 
for all religions call for peace and peaceful coexistence. 
In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  make  reference  to  the 
role in Najaf of Mr. Al-Sistani, who contributed several 
times  to  putting  an  end  to  the  divisions  that  had  so 
severely affected Iraq.
The  adoption  of  the  Takfiri  school  programme 
and  the  dissemination  of  erroneous  Takfiri  fatwas 
through  the  social  media  led  to  extremist  intellectual 
and  ideological  aberrations  that  facilitated  terrorism 
in all its forms and manifestations. It imposed a set of 
mistaken  ideas  that  threaten  international  peace  and 
security and human civilization, hence the importance 
of  working  with  UNESCO  and  other  stakeholders  to 
send a message that appropriate education is essential 
for spreading the values of tolerance and for rejecting 
extremism and violence.
The Government of Iraq has made security efforts 
to re-establish peace and security by adopting a project 
for  national  reconciliation  in  order  to  strengthen 
cohesion and unity among the Iraqi people, entrench the 
principles of national unity, and create the appropriate 
conditions for love and harmony among all components 
of Iraqi society, while deepening the spirit of citizenship 
for the sake of the country. Accordingly, all Iraqis have 
an equal footing in society, free from any discrimination 
whatsoever, with a view to strengthening the sense of 
national unity, responding to challenges and providing 
30/32 
17-29807
23/09/2017 
A/72/PV.20
the Iraqi people with everything they need to achieve 
development and prosperity.
Our  region  has  had  to  face  great  waves  of 
displacement as a result of worsening crises that have 
led  to  the  rapid  deterioration  of  the  humanitarian 
situation of the displaced. Host countries are no longer 
able to provide sufficient assistance on their own. The 
crisis has become even more complex in Iraq because 
of  the  increased  number  of  displaced  Iraqis  who  fled 
areas  that  had  been  under  Da’esh  control,  which  is 
an  additional  burden  for  the  people  of  Iraq,  who  are 
already  suffering  from  a  financial  crisis  stemming 
from the drop in oil prices and the growth of military 
spending to counter terrorism.
reaffirm 
importance  of 
intensifying international efforts aimed at settling the 
issue  of  displaced  people  and  provide  the  necessary 
financial resources, in order to alleviate the suffering 
of Iraqi displaced persons. We are undertaking ongoing 
efforts  to  strengthen  our  relations  with  Arab  States 
and other States in the region, including Saudi Arabia, 
Kuwait,  Jordan,  Syria,  Turkey  and  Iran.  Once  again, 
we reaffirm that an equitable, sustainable peace is the 
best  strategic  choice  and  that  the  peace  process  must 
be comprehensive.
therefore 
We 
the 
Peace 
is 
region 
in  our 
impossible  without 
the  complete  withdrawal  of  Israel  from  occupied 
Palestinian  Arab  lands  and  the  full  establishment  of 
a  Palestinian  State,  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital  and 
within  the  pre-June  1967  borders.  The  Palestinian 
question is a priority for Iraq. We will therefore spare 
no  effort  in  supporting  the  Palestinian  people  so  that 
they  can  enjoy  their  legitimate  right  to  establish  a 
Palestinian  State.  We  reject  all  international  policies 
that run counter to the two-State solution or undermine 
initiatives that could resolve the question of Palestine.
With respect to the situation in Syria, our position 
has  been  clear  since  the  crisis  there  began  in  2011. 
Our position is based on a call for a political solution 
rather than a military one. We have adopted a policy of 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. 
Iraq supports efforts to find a peaceful solution to the 
crisis in Syria in order to protect our Syrian brothers 
and sisters and preserve the unity of Syrian territory. 
We have opted for a political solution that would settle 
all of the issues in the Middle East, including the issues 
of  Yemen  and  Libya.  The  genocide  of  the  suffering 
Rohingya people in Rakhine state in Myanmar, which 
has  been  perpetrated  by  the  armed  forces  of  that 
country,  calls  for  a  firm  international  humanitarian 
effort to meet the challenge of the scope of the human 
rights  violations  and  other  crimes,  which  have  been 
described  in  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights.
We would like to thank all countries participating 
in  the  Global  Coalition,  especially  the  United  States, 
the  European  Union  and  other  countries  outside  the 
Coalition,  for  their  efforts  against  terrorism  and  for 
their  logistics  and  military  support  to  Iraqi  forces 
in  the  framework  of  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of my country. We need help from 
the  international  community  to  rebuild  the  liberated 
areas  as  quickly  as  possible.  As  a  result  of  the  war 
on  terrorism,  other  Iraqi  governorates  have  faced  the 
suspension of reconstruction projects and development 
opportunities.  That  needs  to  be  included  in  the 
reconstruction campaign. 
Furthermore,  we  attach  great 
We see in the liberated cities many suffering women 
and children. We called on the international community 
to actively participate in the donor conference that will 
be organized in Kuwait early next year. We would like 
to thank Kuwait for all its efforts to support Iraq and to 
relieve the burden that the displaced have had to carry. 
to 
freeing our society from the culture of hatred, murder 
and isolation disseminated by Da’esh. We are working 
to counter the effects of these practices. We need the 
international community, through our foreign partners, 
to  assist  us  in  form  of  consultation  and  financial 
investment. Once again, we call for partnerships with 
companies in our friendly countries in investing in the 
areas of the economy, energy, housing, transportation, 
health,  and  the  building  of  hospitals  and  schools.  We 
are  providing  a  legislative  environment  conducive  to 
attracting companies and investors.
importance 
I would like to express Iraq’s thanks to its armed 
forces for the sacrifices they have made. These armed 
forces have fought and continue to fight against Da’esh, 
whether  they  be  forces  of  the  Peshmerga,  the  army, 
the police or anti-terrorist forces. Indeed, Da’esh was 
unable to control the south of the country — it controlled 
only  Mosul  and  Salah  al-Din.  However,  the  people 
of  the  south  also  participated  in  the  struggle  against 
Da’esh  in  Salah  al-Din,  Mosul,  Anbar,  Najaf  and  all 
other provinces, including Kirkuk and Diwaniyah. The 
17-29807
31/32
A/72/PV.20 
23/09/2017
people of the south of Iraq participated in that historic 
battle against terrorism, sacrificing their own lives.
I would like to express our thanks to the Iraqi people 
for  that  sacrifice.  I  am  very  grateful  to  all  parties, 
including  the  Peshmerga,  the  popular  mobilization 
forces and anti-terrorist forces. We hope that we will 
be able to achieve peace, security and prosperity, both 
economically  and  socially,  for  all  States  and  peoples. 
We hope to obtain cooperation at all levels and in all 
sectors  to  achieve  a  world  that  is  free  of  terrorism 
and corruption.
The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m.
32/32 
17-29807
