United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
47th plenary meeting
Friday, 10 November 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Tevi (Vanuatu), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 89 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/221)
Draft resolution (A/72/L.6)
Mr. Carrillo Gómez (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): 
I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the delegation 
of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  a  founding  member  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  We 
thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of  the 
IAEA, for his presentation of its report (see A/72/221) 
for 2016. Paraguay underscores the importance of this 
presentation in the General Assembly, which represents 
the  highest  democratic  expression  of  the  peoples  who 
compose  it  on  the  basis  of  sovereign  equality  among 
States. The delegation of Paraguay, which was a member 
of the IAEA Board of Governors until this September, 
reaffirms its trust in the Agency’s ability to ensure that 
atomic  energy  contributes  to  world  peace,  health  and 
prosperity,  as  enshrined  in  its  Statute.  We  welcome 
the Director General’s recent reappointment as well as 
Grenada’s admission as a new member of the Agency.
Paraguay  emphasizes  that  the  development  and 
implementation of programmes for the peaceful use of 
nuclear energy must be carried out with transparency, 
under the advice and supervision of the IAEA, taking 
the  greatest  possible  precautions  and  limiting  the 
damage  that  the  production  of  nuclear  energy  can  do 
to the environment and human health. States carrying 
out  such  programmes  on  their  territories  must  do  so 
while  ensuring  broad  cross-border  responsibility, 
adhering to best practices in international cooperation, 
risk  prevention  and  due  diligence  and  responding 
appropriately 
transboundary  damage 
or harm.
to  possible 
Paraguay’s  radiological  and  nuclear  regulatory 
authority,  in  coordination  and  with  the  support  of 
the  IAEA,  regulates  and  controls  the  peaceful  and 
beneficial use of ionizing radiation and nuclear energy 
with the aim of protecting the health of our people and 
the environment. Throughout our national territory, we 
promote a culture of technological and physical safety 
where  sources  of  ionizing  radiation  and  radioactive 
waste are concerned. Since 1968, through our national 
atomic  energy  commission,  Paraguay  has  also  been 
promoting  research  and  technological  development 
regarding the peaceful uses of nuclear energy in order 
to  improve  the  people’s  quality  of  life.  Again,  this  is 
being done with the support and oversight of the IAEA 
and in a framework of regional initiatives such as the 
Regional Cooperation Agreement for the Promotion of 
Nuclear Science and Technology in Latin America and 
the Caribbean.
We  would  like  to  highlight  the  importance  of  the 
IAEA’s work on nuclear security and verification. Such 
efforts  should  not  be  manipulated  to  serve  military 
purposes or undermine international peace and security. 
We  affirm  our  commitment  to  the  provisions  of  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-37688 (E)
*1737688*
A/72/PV.47 
10/11/2017
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  We 
reiterate  our  concern  about  programmes  aimed  at 
improving existing nuclear weapons or developing new 
ones. We utterly reject all nuclear tests, including those 
that were conducted in September, which are a violation 
of international law.
nuclear  energy,  supported  by  a  solid  and  consistent 
State  policy  that  considers  the  application  of  the 
international  safeguards  system  extremely  important. 
Argentina  considers  it  vital  to  ensure  that  safeguards 
implementation  activities  are  efficient,  effective  and 
underpinned  by  a  solid  technical  basis,  guaranteeing 
their non-discriminatory nature.
The delegation of Paraguay urges all Member States 
to  support  and  facilitate  the  IAEA’s  verification  and 
monitoring work in the application of safeguards. We 
also urge all members of the international community 
to  refrain  from  any  act  contrary  to  the  objective  and 
purpose of these international instruments, as well as 
those that are part of the international legal frameworks 
on  the  non-proliferation  and  prohibition  of  nuclear 
weapons,  especially  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of 
Nuclear Weapons, and on the use of atomic energy for 
peaceful purposes.
Lastly,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the  role  of 
the  IAEA’s  technical  assistance  and  international 
cooperation for developing countries such as Paraguay, 
especially  in  developing  and  strengthening  national 
capacities  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy 
where achieving the Sustainable Development Goals is 
concerned. We would therefore like to thank the IAEA 
for  its  help  in  strengthening  public  access  to  nuclear 
medicine  in  Paraguay,  particularly  for  the  diagnosis 
and treatment of cancer through the integrated missions 
of  its  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy, 
and 
in  environmental 
radiation  levels  through  its  Occupational  Radiation 
Protection Appraisals.
for  monitoring  variations 
The  delegation  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay 
commends the work of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency and congratulates it on the sixtieth anniversary 
of its founding.
Mrs.  Martinic  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  would  first  like  to  thank  Director  General  Yukiya 
Amano for his comprehensive presentation of the report 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for 
2016 (see A/72/221) and to welcome Grenada as a new 
member of the Agency.
The Republic of Argentina has been committed to 
the  work  of  the  IAEA  since  its  inception  and,  in  that 
spirit,  we  co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution  on  the 
report  (A/72/L.6).  Argentina’s  nuclear  sector  already 
has several decades of experience and has made major 
progress  in  developing  exclusively  peaceful  uses  of 
Ensuring 
the  effectiveness  of 
the 
infringing  on  or  reinterpreting 
IAEA’s 
verification  system  for  nuclear  activities  is  essential 
it  we  are  to  prevent  nuclear  proliferation.  However, 
such  verification  measures  must  not  affect  States’ 
inalienable  right  to  develop  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful  purposes,  as  established  in  article  IV  of  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
Both  in  the  IAEA  and  other  forums,  my  country  has 
consistently  emphasized  the  importance  of  refraining 
from 
that  right. 
Argentina would like to stress the the importance of a 
system of safeguards and guarantees that is conducted 
in a context of cooperation and dialogue. In this regard, 
we wish to highlight the quadripartite agreement that 
Argentina  has  with  Brazil,  the  Brazilian-Argentine 
Agency  for  Accounting  and  Control  of  Nuclear 
Materials  and  the  IAEA,  and  which  has  defined  and 
regulated  our  cooperative  activities  for  implementing 
nuclear  safeguards  since  1991.  The  establishment  of 
the Brazilian-Argentine Agency has been a milestone 
not  only  in  relation  to  Brazil,  by  providing  trust  and 
credible  guarantees  on  the  exclusively  peaceful  use 
of  nuclear  development  for  both  countries,  but  also 
because  of  the  great  contribution  it  has  made  at  the 
regional level, enabling us to consolidate the idea of a 
nuclear-weapon-free Latin America.
Argentina  would  like  to  express  its  thanks  and 
support  for  the  IAEA’s  work  in  the  area  of  nuclear 
security.  In  that  regard,  our  country  has  consistently 
supported  the  Agency’s  central  role  in  coordinating 
and  strengthening  the  nuclear-security  architecture, 
while  calling  for  it  to  play  a  more  active  role  in  this 
area.  We  therefore  welcomed  the  IAEA’s  convening 
in  December  2016  of  the  International  Conference  on 
Nuclear  Security:  Commitments  and  Actions,  as  we 
do the upcoming International Conference on Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and Nuclear Facilities, to 
be held in Vienna from 13 to 17 November. We believe 
that  such  initiatives  reaffirm  the  IAEA’s  essential 
responsibility  and  central 
in  strengthening 
and  coordinating  the  international  nuclear  physical 
security architecture.
role 
2/10 
17-37688
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.47
Argentina encourages the IAEA to continue playing 
its role as the main coordinator of other international 
organizations and initiatives in this area so that nuclear 
security efforts and the fight against nuclear terrorism 
can align in an orderly and sustained manner. In that 
connection, Argentina also underscores the importance 
of supporting the work of the IAEA, financially as well 
as politically, in view of the fact that nuclear security 
is a clear issue on which countries can ensure that their 
actions  live  up  to  their  words.  The  role  of  the  IAEA 
in  nuclear  security  must  be  strengthened  and  allowed 
to reach the level of maturity and development that it 
has shown itself capable of achieving in technological 
nuclear  security,  another  of  its  fundamental  pillars. 
Responsibility  in  matters  of  physical  nuclear  security 
is  a  sovereign  power  of  individual  States  and  efforts 
to  make  progress  and  improvements  in  countering 
terrorist  threats  must  correspond  to  the  real  risk  that 
each  country  faces.  In  that  regard,  we  reiterate  the 
importance  of  harmonizing  binding  and  non-binding 
measures  so  that  progress  is  harmonious,  gradual 
and permanent.
The  Republic  of  Argentina  wishes  to  reiterate 
that it is firmly committed to the highest standards of 
nuclear technological safety, which remains one of the 
main  pillars  of  Argentina’s  nuclear  policy.  Hence  the 
importance of the work done by our nuclear regulatory 
authority,  an  independent  regulatory  body  within  the 
framework of our expanding national programme.
In  2015,  Argentina  had  the  honour  of  presiding 
over the diplomatic conference examining a proposed 
amendment to article 18 of the Convention on Nuclear 
Safety.  That  was  when  we  adopted 
the  Vienna 
Declaration  on  Nuclear  Safety,  which  reflected  the 
interest  of  many  States  parties  in  continuing  to 
strengthen  technological  security.  We  must  continue 
working to improve the implementation of the principles 
of the Vienna Declaration. In that regard, Argentina is 
the first and so far the only country to declare that its 
new nuclear-power plants will be designed, located and 
built  according  to  principle  1  of  the  Declaration.  We 
encourage other parties to do the same.
Argentina  participates  actively 
in  capacity-
building  activities  in  the  region  and  aspires  to  be  a 
focal point in that area. In that regard, our country has 
offered  to  host  various  human-resources  training  and 
education  activities,  under  the  auspices  of  the  IAEA, 
related  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  We 
will  continue  working  with  the  Agency’s  Technical 
Cooperation Programme, which we are providing with 
our experience and facilities for training and capacity-
building,  which  technicians  and  professionals  from 
our  region  and  other  parts  of  the  world  have  already 
benefited from.
Mr.  Kazi 
thanks 
Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
his  presentation  of  its  report  for  the  year  2016  (see 
A/72/221),  and  congratulates  him  on  his  appointment 
to a third four-year term.
(Bangladesh):  Bangladesh 
the  IAEA 
in  coordinating 
Bangladesh  has  full  confidence  in  the  guiding 
role  of 
international 
efforts  to  strengthen  global  nuclear  safety,  security 
and  safeguards  in  using  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes.  Our  Prime  Minister  visited  Vienna  in  May 
this year to attend the International Conference on the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  while  the 
Director  General  visited  Bangladesh  for  the  second 
time in July 2017. We had a high level of participation 
at the International Ministerial Conference on Nuclear 
Power in the 21st Century, held recently in Abu Dhabi.
Bangladesh  attaches  great  importance  to  nuclear 
safety and stresses the importance of ensuring that the 
Agency retains a central role in nuclear safety, owing to 
its mandatory functions, broad membership and long-
standing expertise. We also stress our principled position 
that nuclear safety and nuclear security considerations 
must not hamper the utilization of nuclear technology 
for  peaceful  purposes.  We  would  like  to  highlight 
the  importance  of  the  Agency’s  work  in  maintaining, 
improving and promoting nuclear, radiation, transport 
and waste safety, as well as in emergency preparedness 
and  response  worldwide.  Bangladesh  appreciates  the 
Agency’s continuing efforts to support Member States 
in  sharing  knowledge,  expertise, 
technology  and 
information  on  all  aspects  of  nuclear  safety.  We  also 
welcome  its  activities  aimed  at  supporting  nuclear-
safety  infrastructure  development  in  Member  States. 
We  particularly  appreciate  the  assistance  it  provides 
to  developing  countries  operating,  expanding  or 
embarking  on  nuclear  power  programmes.  We  stress 
the importance of a sustained focus on activities aimed 
at building the competency of regulatory functions and 
management for safety, including a culture of safety.
Bangladesh appreciates the Agency’s efforts to assist 
Member States in building and developing their nuclear-
security  capacity,  including  establishing  effective, 
17-37688
3/10
A/72/PV.47 
10/11/2017
sustainable  and  comprehensive  national  nuclear 
security  infrastructures.  We  note  the  Agency’s  goals 
and priorities concerning nuclear security for the period 
from  2017  to  2018,  which  include  promoting  further 
adherence to the Convention on the Physical Protection 
of Nuclear Material, with the aim of its universalization. 
Bangladesh deposited its instrument of acceptance for 
the amendment to the Convention earlier this year. We 
acknowledge  the  Agency’s  efforts  in  responding  to 
member States’ growing requests for its support in the 
area of information and computer security.
Bangladesh  considers  nuclear  energy  to  be  a 
safe,  environmentally 
friendly  and  economically 
viable  source  of  electricity  generation.  We  have 
started  construction  of  the  Rooppur  nuclear  power 
plant,  our  country’s  first,  under  bilateral  cooperation 
arrangements  with  the  Russian  Federation.  We  are 
following  the  IAEA  guidelines  for  implementing  our 
jointly developed integrated work plan for infrastructure 
development. We are grateful to India and Japan, among 
others, for their contributions to our national capacity-
building efforts.
Bangladesh counts on the IAEA as its main partner 
in  promoting  safe  and  secure  applications  of  nuclear 
science and technology for peaceful purposes. Through 
its Technical Cooperation Programme, the Agency has 
been  cooperating  with  and  assisting  Bangladesh  in 
human-resource  development  and  capacity-building 
for the introduction, development and peaceful use of 
nuclear technology in various sectors, such as nuclear 
infrastructure,  livestock,  agriculture,  health,  industry 
and water management. We have completed 138 national 
projects  under  the  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
and  participated  in  111  regional  projects  under  the 
Regional  Cooperative  Agreement,  which  we  consider 
an  important  tool  for  promoting  and  coordinating 
research  and  development  activities  in  using  nuclear 
technology  for  peaceful  purposes.  Bangladesh 
is 
confident that the Agreement will continue to promote 
regional capabilities and expertise in various thematic 
areas, 
radioactive 
waste  management,  nuclear  safety  and  radiation  and 
environmental protection.
thanks 
facilitating 
draft  resolution  A/72/L.6,  on  the  report  of  the  IAEA, 
to be adopted by the Assembly. We reaffirm our own 
commitment to further promoting the IAEA’s work on 
advancing the Sustainable Development Goals and look 
Bangladesh 
including 
research-reactor  and 
Indonesia 
for 
forward  to  playing  an  enhanced  role  on  its  Board  of 
Governors, with the kind support of member States.
Mr.  Ngundze  (South  Africa):  I  too  would  like  to 
express my sincere appreciation to Mr. Yukiya Amano, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  succinct  presentation  of  the 
IAEA’s  2016  report  (see  A/72/221)  and  for  providing 
valuable updates on the Agency’s 2017 activities.
South  Africa  has  just  concluded  its  one-year 
term  at  the  helm  of  the  IAEA’s  Board  of  Governors. 
During  our  term  on  the  Board,  we  were  pleased  that 
the  Board  of  Governors  emphasized  the  development 
role of the IAEA through its activities related to nuclear 
science,  technology  and  applications,  which  Director 
General  Amano  ably  outlined  in  great  detail  during 
his  presentation.  South  Africa  used  its  leadership 
of  the  Board  to  advocate  a  balanced  approach  in  the 
implementation of the IAEA’s mandate in line with its 
motto,  “Atoms  for  Peace  and  Development”.  I  would 
like  to  express  South  Africa’s  appreciation  to  the 
membership  of  the  IAEA  generally,  and  the  Group 
of  African  States  in  particular,  for  entrusting  us  with 
the task of leading the Board in the past year. We are 
more than ever convinced that the IAEA has a pivotal 
role  to  play  in  global  efforts  to  promote  international 
peace, security and development. We would also like to 
congratulate Indonesia on its appointment to chair the 
Board for the period from 2017 to 2018 and to assure it 
of our commitment and cooperation in that regard.
South  Africa  fully  supports  the  priorities  and 
work  of  the  IAEA,  including  the  progress  that  the 
Agency  has  achieved  during  the  2017  period.  In  that 
regard,  we  have  always  maintained  that  the  Agency’s 
nuclear  applications  in  areas  such  as  agriculture, 
crop  production,  food  security,  human  health,  water-
resource management, nuclear technology and animal 
health  contribute  to  socioeconomic  development  in 
developing  countries  and  thereby  help  them  in  their 
efforts to implement the 2030 Agenda, particularly on 
the African continent.
South  Africa  has  benefited  immensely  from  the 
IAEA’s  scientific  and 
technological  support,  not 
least  in  strengthening  its  clinical  management  of 
oncological, neurological and cardiovascular diseases. 
The IAEA also supported South Africa in developing 
the  sterile-insect  technique  to  help  control  malaria. 
In  that  context,  South  Africa  reiterates  its  support, 
which  is  shared  by  many  IAEA  member  States,  for 
4/10 
17-37688
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.47
ensuring that the Agency continues to assist developing 
countries,  particularly  in  Africa,  in  enhancing  the 
benefits that can be derived from the peaceful uses of 
nuclear science and technology.
We also want to underscore the central role played by 
the Agency in implementing its safeguards verification 
system, which plays an essential role in verifying the 
peaceful nature of nuclear energy programmes. As the 
only country in the world to voluntarily dismantle its 
nuclear programme, with the assistance and guidance of 
the IAEA, South Africa can attest to the indispensable 
role of the Agency’s safeguards system. In addition to 
the peaceful uses of energy, South Africa’s view is that 
nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation are 
mutually reinforcing processes and that progress in all 
the  pillars  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons is therefore essential if its objectives 
and purpose are to be realized.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  has  co-sponsored 
draft  resolution  A/72/L.6,  submitted  by  Indonesia  in 
its  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Board  of  Governors  for 
the period from 2017 to 2018. Among other things, the 
draft  resolution  reaffirms  the  Agency’s  indispensable 
role in encouraging and assisting the development and 
practical  application  of  atomic  energy  for  peaceful 
uses,  in  technology  transfers  to  developing  countries 
and  in  nuclear  safety,  verification  and  security,  and 
we  appreciate  Indonesia’s  role  in  coordinating  the 
draft resolution.
Mr.  Hansen  (Australia):  Australia  commends 
Director General Amano for his report (see A/72/221) 
on  the  activities  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA).  We  were  pleased  to  co-sponsor  the 
draft resolution on the report (A/72/L.6).
This  has  been  another  productive  year  for  the 
IAEA, and Australia continues to greatly appreciate the 
Agency’s work across nuclear science and technology, 
safety, security, safeguards and technical cooperation. 
During  the  past  year,  in  which  we  celebrated  the 
Agency’s  sixtieth  anniversary,  we  are  particularly 
pleased  to  see  the  Director  General’s  commitment  to 
championing  gender  equality.  Australia  will  continue 
to strongly advocate for and support efforts to increase 
the representation of women in the Agency’s technical 
areas  and  senior  management,  particularly  through 
the  Group  of  Friends  for  Women  in  Nuclear,  newly 
established in Vienna.
Australia remains a strong supporter of the transfer 
of knowledge and expertise through the IAEA Technical 
Cooperation Programme. In June 2017, we ratified the 
new  Regional  Cooperative  Agreement  for  Research, 
Development  and  Training  related  to  Nuclear  Science 
and Technology in Asia and the Pacific, which will help 
embed  regional  technical  cooperation,  particularly  in 
developing countries, in our region.
Australia 
is  pleased 
to  continue  highlighting 
the  important  contribution  of  peaceful  applications 
of  nuclear  science  and  technology  in  many  areas  of 
human  endeavour,  including  development  and  health. 
This  year,  we  completed  the  construction  of  our  new 
large-scale  molybdenum-99  processing  plant.  This 
facility, which has the capacity to provide 25 per cent of 
current world needs, will help secure the global supply 
of this lifesaving nuclear medicine.
Australia is firmly committed to nuclear safety and 
will undergo an Integrated Regulatory Review Service 
mission  in  2018.  That  demonstrates  our  sustained 
commitment  to  the  international  peer  review  system 
and  to  continued  improvement  in  the  regulation  of 
nuclear and radiation safety.
Australia  will  not  accept  North  Korea’s  illegal 
development and testing of nuclear weapons and their 
delivery systems, or its threats, which continue to pose 
a  grave  and  increasing  threat  to  global  security.  It  is 
vital that all members of the international community 
fully 
relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions  and  work  collectively  to  bring  Pyongyang 
to the negotiating table.
implement 
the 
Finally, Australia appreciates the work of the Director 
General and his staff in monitoring and verifying the 
implementation  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action  (JCPOA).  Australia  has  been  consistent  and 
clear. We consider the JCPOA to be the best available 
option  for  addressing  Iran’s  nuclear  programme,  and 
we believe there is no credible alternative. We continue 
to urge all parties to the agreement to keep the deal in 
place and implement it in full.
is  pleased 
Mr. Peñaranda (Philippines): As a strong partner 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
the  Philippines 
to  have  co-sponsored 
draft  resolution  A/72/L.6,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”. It is consistent 
with  the  partnership  between  the  Philippines  and  the 
IAEA, which has contributed to addressing outstanding 
issues on nuclear safety, security and safeguards.
17-37688
5/10
A/72/PV.47 
10/11/2017
The  Agency  is  the  sole  United  Nations  body  that 
promotes  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  In  that 
connection, the Philippines recalls that the IAEA was 
founded in the aftermath of the most devastating war in 
the world to harness the power of the atom for peace, 
health  and  prosperity.  For  its  part,  the  Philippines 
has  been  active  in  bringing  together  national  and 
international experts in the nuclear field to share ideas 
and  expertise  on  nuclear  applications  in  the  areas  of 
food and agriculture, health and medicine, industry and 
the environment.
the 
The  Philippines  acknowledges 
leadership 
of  Director  General  Yukiya  Amano  in  maintaining 
high-quality  programmes  and  delivering  concrete 
results for Member States. We congratulate him on his 
reappointment  as  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  and 
commend  the  “Atoms  for  Peace  and  Development” 
initiative,  which  he  has  actively  promoted  during 
his  tenure.  We  also  support  the  Agency’s  efforts  to 
achieve  gender  equality  and  balanced  geographic 
representation at all levels of the organization, assuming 
satisfactory qualifications.
The Philippines encourages the IAEA to maintain a 
balance between the promotional and non-promotional 
aspects of its work, in line with its Statute. We believe 
that a balanced approach across the Agency’s six major 
programmes  will  serve  to  strengthen  it  and  help  to 
increase its relevance to the citizens of all its member 
States. The IAEA’s relevance is becoming all the more 
significant given the increased importance of its dealings 
with nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament issues 
from the technical and scientific perspectives.
The  strong  commitment  of  the  Philippines  to 
the  important  work  of  the  IAEA  was  made  more 
meaningful by the election of our resident representative 
to  international  organizations  in  Vienna,  Ms.  Maria 
Zeneida Angara Collinson, to the presidency of the sixty-
first IAEA General Conference. In line with the policy 
of advocacy for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in 
her acceptance statement Ambassador Collinson noted 
the  adoption  by  122  nations  on  7  July  of  the  Treaty 
on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, whose aim is 
to  minimize,  if  not  to  neutralize,  the  weaponization 
of  nuclear  power.  The  sixty-first  Conference  adopted 
all  its  resolutions  by  consensus,  including  the  highly 
sensitive one on the North Korean issue.
The Philippines looks forward to continued active 
collaboration with the IAEA in the years ahead.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 89.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on 
draft  resolution  A/72/L.6,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in the document, the following countries have become 
sponsors  of  draft 
resolution  A/72/L.6:  Albania, 
Angola,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria,  Bangladesh, 
Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, Finland, 
France,  Greece,  Hungary,  Iraq,  Italy,  Kazakhstan, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Spain, 
Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates 
and the United States of America.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/72/L.6?
Draft resolution A/72/L.6 was adopted (resolution 72/5).
The  Acting  President:  Several  delegations  have 
asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would 
like to remind members that statements in the exercise 
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the 
first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second, 
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mrs.  Jakubonė  (Lithuania):  Lithuania  wishes  to 
exercise its right of reply in the light of the statement 
made by the representative of Belarus.
Each country has the right to develop nuclear power 
as long as its international obligations on nuclear safety 
are properly addressed and national decisions are taken 
in the context of possible transboundary implications. 
The newcomer countries must be especially diligent in 
the implementation of international standards.
Despite  the  global  efforts  to  strengthen  nuclear 
safety,  a  declarative  and  selective  approach  towards 
nuclear  safety  still  exists.  The  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA) brand and its review services 
are being used for manipulative public communications. 
That  kind  of  practice  increases  the  risks  related  to 
6/10 
17-37688
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.47
nuclear-power  development.  In  that  regard,  I  have  to 
express  our  concern  regarding  the  way  the  project  of 
the  new  nuclear  power  plant  in  Ostrovets,  Belarus,  is 
being implemented on the border with Lithuania, just 
40  kilometres  from  its  capital,  Vilnius.  This  is  being 
done  without  the  proper  and  full  implementation  of 
nuclear-safety  measures  and  genuine  dialogue  with 
neighbouring countries. The lack of transparency and 
the  fact  that  essential  information  on  site  selection, 
seismic evaluation and emergency preparedness plans 
is missing are deeply alarming.
IAEA specialized missions can bring the maximum 
benefits  if  IAEA  experts  are  engaged  from  the  very 
beginning  of  project  development  and  in  full  scope 
at  all  stages.  Therefore,  Lithuania  urges  all  member 
States, especially the newcomers, to focus on the safety 
of the project rather than on its hasty implementation.
Mr. Jo Tong Hyon (Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea): On behalf of my delegation, I would like to 
make some remarks additional to the statement delivered 
by  my  Ambassador  this  morning  (see  A/72/PV.46)  to 
help  clarify  the  lack  of  understanding  and  to  educate 
some persons sitting in this Hall who are illiterate and 
ignorant as to the situation on the Korean peninsula.
The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea rejects 
resolution  72/5,  based  on  the  report  (see  A/72/221)  of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and 
all  the  reckless  remarks  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union  and  the  representatives  of  Australia, 
Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, which are part 
of  a  politicized,  evil-minded  and  confrontational  plot 
aimed at defaming the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea and thereby effecting change in the social system 
of my country.
First, let me pose one question to the aforementioned 
persons.  What  would  they  do  if  a  burglar  burst  into 
their  house,  knife  in  hand?  Would  they  sit  idle  with 
folded  arms?  The  answer  is  definitely  no.  The  same 
answer  applies  to  the  issue  of  the  Korean  peninsula. 
As  everyone  here  knows,  technically  speaking  both 
parties — the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
and the United States of America — are still in a state 
of war against each other. An armistice agreement was 
signed by both parties in 1953, leading to a ceasefire. 
An armistice does not mean permanent peace. That is 
why my Government has insisted that the United States 
abandon  its  hostile  policy  against  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and sign a peace agreement 
in  order  to  ensure  complete  peace  on  the  Korean 
peninsula. But this justified position of my Government 
has been consistently neglected by the United States.
The  nuclear  weapons  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  are  a  deterrent  against  war  that 
reliably safeguard the sovereignty and security of our 
nation  and  contribute  to  regional  and  global  peace 
and  security  in  the  face  of  over  half  a  century  of 
nuclear  blackmail  by  the  United  States.  Over  half  a 
century — more than 70 years — the United States has 
continued  its  long  history  of  hostile  politics  towards 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  has 
directed extreme nuclear threats and blackmail against 
our people.
The  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Security  Council 
against my country are the products of double standards, 
high-handedness and anachronisms on the part of the 
United States. The nuclear threat posed by the United 
States has compelled the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea to go nuclear. The hostile policy of the United 
States  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea is the cause of the nuclear problem on the Korean 
peninsula.  The  United  States  armed  forces  stationed 
in  South  Korea,  under  the  cover  of  so-called  United 
Nations  command,  are  disrupting  peace  and  security 
on the Korean peninsula.
We are all witness to the events happening now, even 
at this very moment, as the head of the United States 
regime  wanders  through  several  countries  —  Japan, 
South  Korea  and  China  —  uttering  reckless,  hostile 
and  belligerent  words  against  my  country.  Everyone 
has  witnessed  that.  Every  year,  there  is  a  large-scale 
joint military exercise performed by the United States 
armed  forces  in  South  Korea.  These  exercises  occur 
one after another, every year and even several times a 
year. All strategic nuclear weapons assets — including 
aircraft  carriers,  nuclear  submarines,  nuclear  ballistic 
missiles and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense 
system  —  were  introduced  by  the  United  States  into 
South Korea.
If the United States really wants to fulfil its duty 
and responsibility regarding peace and security on the 
Korean peninsula, it should completely and irreversibly 
abandon its nuclear threat and hostile policy against the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, dismantle the 
United States command in South Korea and withdraw 
its armed forces from South Korea.
17-37688
7/10
A/72/PV.47 
10/11/2017
With 
regard 
to  Japan, 
I  strongly  condemn 
Japanese  intervention,  criticizing  our  self-defensive 
nuclear-power  development,  as  a  most  unpardonable 
provocation against the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea. This morning we heard the Director General 
of the IAEA (see A/72/PV.46) say that ensuring nuclear 
safety  and  security  is  one  of  the  vital  roles  of  the 
Agency. Let me raise one more question for the Japanese 
delegation and the Director General of the IAEA. Who 
was  the  victim  of  the  first  atomic  bomb  disaster  in 
humankind’s history? It was none other than Japan. If 
that is historical reality, then what should the IAEA and 
Japan  do  to  respond  to  this  inhumane  tragedy?  They 
should definitely focus on the United States first, which 
is the only nuclear war criminal and the largest nuclear 
Power on the planet.
However,  they  turn  a  blind  eye  to  the  nuclear 
assets of the United States, such as nuclear submarines, 
nuclear aircraft carriers and strategic nuclear bombers, 
which enter and leave Japan’s territory all the time, year-
round, freely and without impediment. On the contrary, 
they go to extremes in their fury about the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  nuclear  deterrent,  which 
represents the absolutely rightful and justified right of 
a sovereign State to defend itself.
I  should  raise  another  question  for  the  Japanese 
delegation. What is its country’s real aim on that issue? 
What  is  its  real  concern  regarding  this  issue?  Is  it 
nuclear weapons, or simply that Japan does not like our 
political system or the way in which the people of the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea are living?
I  turn  next  to  South  Korea.  I  believe  that  the 
delegation of South Korea is not representing its own 
interests. Rather, it represents only the interests of the 
United States, because South Korea does not have the 
right to speak about itself, independently, without the 
consent of the United States. South Korea is merely a 
colony of the United States. It has handed over control 
of  its  military,  the  symbol  of  its  sovereignty,  to  the 
United  States  and  turned  every  corner  of  its  territory 
into a United States army base. Among the 193 States 
Members of the United Nations, there is no country like 
South Korea, which sits here after totally handing over 
the symbol of its sovereignty, the control of its military, 
to outside forces. There is no country like South Korea, 
which  has  been  involved  in  disgraceful  pro-United 
States  policies  and  has  joined  conspiracy  cooperation 
manoeuvres against its fellow countrymen.
A  country  without  its  sovereignty  can  never  be 
considered  an  independent  Member  State,  and  it  is 
both  weird  and  ridiculous  that  such  a  regime  can  say 
anything  about  the  membership  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which  is  a  dignified, 
independent  and  sovereign  State.  The  South  Korean 
authorities  should  abandon  their  reliance  on  foreign 
Powers and give up the policies that are at the root of 
the confrontation between North and South Korea.
Lastly, I would like to say one more thing about a 
slightly  different  issue.  It  is  the  issue  of  the  Japanese 
representative calling my country “North Korea”. It is 
very clear that the official name of my country is the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. That is why the 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Standardization  of 
Geographical Names is held every year. I wonder how 
that  representative  would  feel  if  I  called  his  country 
“the island of Japan”.
Mr.  Lozinskiy  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): With regard to the speculation that we have 
heard  concerning  nuclear  infrastructure  in  Crimea, 
I  would  like  to  say  that  the  Russian  position  is  well 
known. It is set out in the International Atomic Energy 
Agency  information  circular  contained  in  document 
INFCIRC/876 and remains unchanged. For the Russian 
Federation, this question is closed.
Ms.  Fedorovich  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I  would  like  to  exercise  my  right  of  reply  regarding 
the  statement  made  earlier  by  the  representative 
of Lithuania.
Belarus considers that nuclear security belongs in a 
factual rather than a political category. As I noted in our 
general  statement  in  today’s  debate  (see  A/72/PV.46), 
Belarus considers nuclear security to be a priority for 
our  national  nuclear-energy  programme.  Apart  from 
our  efforts  to  achieve  the  highest  possible  level  of 
nuclear safety at the national level, we do our utmost 
to work with the international cooperative mechanisms 
that, in our view, will make the most useful practical 
contribution  to  our  project.  The  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  whose  report  we  endorsed 
today,  is  particularly  important  in  that  regard.  Very 
recently,  in  April,  Belarus  successfully  defended  its 
seventh report under the Convention on Nuclear Safety.
As I noted briefly, before the initial launch of the 
first energy-producing unit of our plant, we brought in 
an almost record number of the IAEA’s major nuclear 
security  missions,  including  the  Integrated  Nuclear 
8/10 
17-37688
10/11/2017 
A/72/PV.47
Infrastructure  Review,  Integrated  Regulatory  Review 
Service  and  Site  and  External  Events  Design  Review 
Service  missions.  The  conclusions  of  all  of  these 
missions  affirmed  Belarus’s  steadfast  commitment  to 
ensuring the highest possible level of nuclear security. 
We  have  published  the  relevant  reports,  and  they  are 
available on the Internet for anyone who wants to read 
them. The conclusions of the experts of the Agency that 
we  consider  the  most  competent  to  judge  the  nuclear 
security  levels  during  any  assessment  are  open  and 
accessible  to  those  wishing  to  familiarize  themselves 
with them.
We  are  also  working  with 
the  European 
Commission  and  with  other  partners  to  make  the 
greatest  possible  use  of  their  expert  potential.  At  this 
point  we  have  already  conducted  a  so-called  stress 
test, a comprehensive survey of the risks and security 
of  the  Belarusian  plant.  We  are  currently  beginning 
work on expert assessments of the stress-test results in 
partnership with European regulators.
In  our  view,  the  accusations  of  our  plant’s  so-
called lack of security are unjustified and, in a number 
of cases, politically motivated. In an example of what 
we  see  as  unconstructive  action,  this  year  one  of  our 
near neighbours enacted legislation banning imports of 
electric  power  from  Belarus’s  as  yet  unbuilt  nuclear-
power plant on a pretext of a supposed lack of security. 
For  the  past  several  years  we  have  frequently  invited 
all interested parties to engage in dialogue on security 
issues  surrounding  the  Belarus  nuclear-power  plant. 
While  a  number  of  our  neighbours,  and  not  only  our 
neighbours, have taken advantage of this opportunity, 
some  did  not  consider  it  advisable  and  have  taken 
a  political  route.  Nevertheless,  it  is  important  to  us 
to  establish  normal  cooperation  with  all  interested 
parties,  including  our  near  neighbour  Lithuania.  We 
firmly believe that if we are to achieve nuclear security 
on  a  global  scale,  it  is  absolutely  critical  to  maintain 
a dialogue.
Ms.  Yoon  Seong-Mee  (Republic  of  Korea):  It  is 
deeply  regrettable  that  the  representative  of  North 
Korea  continues 
to  make  groundless  statements 
impugning my country’s sovereignty. Faced with North 
Korea’s  constant  threats,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will 
take  every  measure  necessary  to  protect  the  security 
of  its  people  and  territory.  However  much  North 
Korea  tries  to  distort  the  facts,  it  will  not  change  the 
fundamental  nature  of  its  nuclear-missile  problem. 
The international community has made its united and 
unequivocal  position  on  this  issue  clear  on  numerous 
occasions. My delegation once again urges North Korea 
to immediately cease its aggressive threats to peace and 
security on the Korean peninsula and to the international 
community as a whole, and to immediately dismantle 
its  nuclear  programme  in  a  complete,  verifiable  and 
irreversible manner.
Mr.  Amiya  (Japan):  Japan  would  like  to  exercise 
the  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the  comments  and 
justifications  made  by  the  North  Korean  delegation. 
North  Korea’s  nuclear-missile  development  is  a  clear 
violation of a series of Security Council resolutions that 
urge it to abandon all its nuclear-weapon and ballistic-
missile programmes. North Korea should refrain from 
any  further  provocations  and  fully  comply  with  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  as  well  as  the 
joint statement of the Six-Party Talks.
Mr. Jo Tong Hyon (Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea):  I  would  like  to  comment  briefly  on  the 
qualifications of Japan. In my understanding, Japan is 
in no way qualified to say anything about the nuclear 
issue or about questions of humanity in this Hall. Japan 
is the only country in the world that is still trying very 
hard  to  avoid  admitting  to,  apologizing  or  answering 
for the inhuman war crimes it committed in the past. 
Instead,  it  seeks  to  revive  its  old  imperialist  dreams 
by distorting and beautifying its criminally aggressive 
history. I would like to provide some very basic figures 
on  Japan’s  historical  crimes  against  humanity,  and 
specifically the Korean people.
Japan is the only nation in human history that has 
shamefully  committed  State-sponsored  and  organized 
military  sex  slavery  in  a  number  of  other  Asian 
countries.  That  includes  forcing  more  than  200,000 
innocent women and girls from Korea into sex slavery 
for  the  Japanese  army  during  the  Second  World  War. 
Japan  committed  genocide  against  the  Korean  people 
during  over  40  years  of  colonial  rule  on  the  Korean 
peninsula.  It  massacred  more  than  1  million  Koreans 
and kidnapped and forced more than 8 million into hard 
labour. Let me repeat those figures once more: 200,000 
women  and  girls  for  sex  slavery;  over  1  million  were 
killed; over 8 million were kidnapped and forced into 
hard  labour.  However,  Japan  continues  to  refuse  to 
admit to or apologize for its crimes and avoids making 
reparations  to  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea. We have learned from those historical lessons, 
and it is our conclusion that Japan has no political or 
17-37688
9/10
A/72/PV.47 
10/11/2017
moral qualification to speak on the matter in the sacred 
international arena of the United Nations.
Once again, we urge North Korea to completely comply 
with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
I would say the following to the representative of 
South Korea. There is no nation like us in this world. 
We  share  the  same  territory,  the  same  blood  and  the 
same language. We share over 5,000 years of history. 
We  are  divided  by  outside  forces.  That  is  the  tragedy 
of  the  Korean  people.  I  really  wish  the  South  Korean 
authority would learn the lessons of history with respect 
to  outside  forces.  My  country’s  nuclear-war  deterrent 
seeks  to  guarantee  the  peace,  stability  and  prosperity 
of  the  Korean  people  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  It  is 
the  tragedy  of  the  Korean  people  that  we  are  divided 
into two by outside forces. South Koreans should reject 
United  States  foreign  policy  and  return  to  the  path 
of  collaboration  with  their  fellow  countrymen  with 
respect  to  the  principles  of  independence,  peace  and 
great national unity.
Mr.  Amiya  (Japan):  We  are  here  to  discuss  the 
agenda  item  89,  “Report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency”.  We  do  not  think  it  is  appropriate 
to  get  into  the  discussion  of  history  initiated  by  the 
North  Korean  delegation.  However,  let  us  be  clear 
that  throughout  its  history,  Japan  has  upheld  all  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  contributed  to  the  peace  and  prosperity 
of not only Asia but also the world while consistently 
championing freedom, democracy and the rule of law. 
Ms. Yoon Seong-Mee (Republic of Korea): I thank 
you, Mr. President, for giving me a second opportunity 
to  exercise  the  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the 
allegations of North Korea.
I  just  want  to  recall  that  in  his  speech  to  the 
General  Assembly  this  year  (A/72/PV.11),  President 
Moon once again stressed that the Korean Government 
does not seek the collapse of North Korea or unification 
by absorption or artificial means. The Government of 
the Republic of Korea remains open to talks aimed at 
the  denuclearization  of  North  Korea.  We  have  made 
it  clear  on  many  occasions  that  we  will  honour  the 
commitments in the joint statement of the 19 September 
2005 Six-Party Talks. It is North Korea that refuses all 
kinds  of  dialogue,  raising  tensions  in  the  region  and 
beyond.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  urge 
North  Korea  to  come  to  the  dialogue  and  negotiation 
table to talk about peace and the common prosperity of 
our common people.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 89?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.05 p.m.
10/10 
17-37688
