United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
55th plenary meeting
Friday, 17 November 2017, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 65
Peacebuilding and sustaining peace
Draft resolution (A/72/L.4)
The  President:  I  should  like  to  inform  members 
of  the  Assembly  that,  in  line  with  past  practice,  the 
General Assembly will hold a debate on item 65 jointly 
with  agenda  items  30,  “Report  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission” and 111, “Report of the Secretary-General 
on the Peacebuilding Fund”, during the resumed part of 
the session next year.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Turkmenistan to introduce draft resolution A/72/L.4.
Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan):  The  delegation  of 
Turkmenistan has the honour to speak on behalf of the 
cross-regional  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.4, 
entitled  “Role  of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
for  Preventive  Diplomacy  for  Central  Asia”.  The 
draft  resolution  has  been  submitted  on  behalf  of  the 
five  countries  of  Central  Asia,  namely,  Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and my own country, 
Turkmenistan,  to  celebrate  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive 
Diplomacy for Central Asia, and to emphasize its role 
in the region.
Central  Asian  countries  would  like  to  underscore 
the  unwavering  and  broad  interregional  support  for 
the draft resolution, and we have the honour to express 
deep gratitude to the sponsoring countries. We would 
also  like  to  underline  the  constructive  atmosphere  of 
the entire deliberation process of the draft resolution.
Preventive  diplomacy  is  one  of  the  priorities  of 
the  United  Nations,  whereby  early  warning  and  early 
action  can  advance  security  and  stability,  save  lives 
and  promote  sustainable  development.  The  United 
Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy 
for  Central  Asia  (UNRCCA)  is  a  special  political 
mission of the United Nations, established in December 
2007  in  Ashgabat  at  the  initiative  of  the  five  Central 
Asian States.
The  Centre  promotes  dialogue  among 
the 
Governments of the Central Asian countries on finding 
solutions  to  emerging  problems  and  on  eliminating 
potential  threats  so  as  to  keep  regular  contacts  with 
regional  and  international  organizations  operating  in 
the region, to stimulate their peacemaking efforts and 
initiatives and to cooperate with other United Nations 
agencies working in the field of sustainable development 
and conflict prevention.
In its 10 years of existence, the Centre has provided 
Governments  with  a  platform  for  dialogue  on  the 
most  challenging  regional  issues,  ranging  from  the 
management  of  common  resources  to  transnational 
threats, such as terrorism, violent extremism, organized 
crime  and  drug  and  other  forms  of  trafficking.  In 
doing  so,  UNRCCA  has  closely  cooperated  with  all 
Governments of the region and has built capacities to 
use preventive diplomacy methods and instruments to 
address existing and emerging challenges.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-38805 (E)
*1738805*
A/72/PV.55 
17/11/2017
Regular  multilateral  meetings,  attended  by 
delegations of all five Central Asian countries, enable 
attention to be focused on common concerns, including 
the most important, such as preventive diplomacy as a 
key  instrument  for  positive  results  in  ensuring  global 
security  and  stability,  cross-border  crime  control 
and others.
In  June  this  year,  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres  visited  all  five  countries  of  the  region.  He 
presented  an  opportunity  to  renew  United  Nations 
support to the ongoing efforts of regional cooperation 
and underlined the relevance of preventive diplomacy 
to Central Asia.
The  draft  resolution  generalizes  the  experience 
of  the  Regional  Centre  for  use  by  other  countries 
of  the  world  and  emphasizes  once  again  the  role  of 
preventive diplomacy.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  all  sponsors,  may  I 
express our hope that this important draft resolution will 
receive unanimous support and the wider sponsorship 
of Member States.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  draft  resolution  A/72/L.4,  entitled  “Role 
of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive 
Diplomacy for Central Asia”.
to 
representative  of 
floor 
the 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
(Department 
Ms.  De  Miranda 
for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I should like 
to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
the  document,  the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/72/L.4:  Afghanistan, 
Albania,  Angola,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Belgium,  the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  Canada,  Chile,  China, 
Croatia, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Estonia, Ethiopia, 
France,  Germany,  Hungary,  Israel,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Lebanon,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Mongolia, 
the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  the  Russian 
Federation,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  the 
Sudan,  Switzerland,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, the United Kingdom, the United States of 
America and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of the 
General Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/72/L.4?
Draft resolution A/72/L.4 was adopted (resolution 
72/7).
Agenda item 115
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(a) Appointment of members of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/566)
The President: In paragraph 6 of its report, the Fifth 
Committee  recommends  that  the  General  Assembly 
appoint  the  following  persons  as  members  of  the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1  January  2018:  Mr.  Bachar  Bong  Abdallah  (Chad), 
Mr.  Pavel  Chernikov  (Russian  Federation),  Ms.  Julia 
Maciel  (Paraguay),  Mr.  Cihan  Terzi  (Turkey)  and 
Mr. David Traystman (United States of America).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to appoint those persons as members of the Advisory 
Committee 
and  Budgetary 
Questions for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2018?
on  Administrative 
It was so decided.
(b) Appointment of members of the Committee on 
Contributions
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/567)
The  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  its  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly appoint the following persons as members of 
the Committee on Contributions for a three-year term 
of  office  beginning  on  1  January  2018:  Mr.  Michael 
Holtsch  (Germany),  Mr.  Evgeny  Kalugin  (Russian 
Federation),  Mr.  Henrique  da  Silveira  Sardinha  Pinto 
(Brazil), Mr. Steve Townley (United Kingdom of Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland),  Ms.  Yoon  Seongmee 
(Republic of Korea) and Ms. Zhang Wei (China).
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint those persons as members of the Committee on 
Contributions for a three-year term of office beginning 
on 1 January 2018?
It was so decided.
2/4 
17-38805
17/11/2017 
A/72/PV.55
(c) Appointment of a member of the Board of 
Auditors
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/571)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends, 
in paragraph 5 of its report, that the General Assembly 
appoint  the  Comptroller  General  of  the  Republic  of 
Chile as a member of the Board of Auditors for a six-
year term of office beginning on 1 July 2018.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  that  person  as  a  member  of  the  Board  of 
Auditors  for  a  six-year  term  of  office  beginning  on 
1 July 2018
It was so decided.
(d) Appointment of members of the International 
Civil Service Commission
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/568)
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  (a)  of  the  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  the  following  persons  as  members 
of  the  International  Civil  Service  Commission  for 
a  four-year  term  of  office  beginning  on  1  January 
2018:  Mr.  Yuji  Kumamaru  (Japan),  Mr.  Luis  Mariano 
Hermosillo Sosa (Mexico), Mr. Aldo Mantovani (Italy), 
Mr.  Jeffrey  Mounts  (United  States  of  America)  and 
Mr. Wolfgang Stöckl (Germany).
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  appoint  Mr.  Yuji  Kumamaru,  Mr.  Luis  Mariano 
Hermosillo  Sosa,  Mr.  Aldo  Mantovani,  Mr.  Jeffrey 
Mounts  and  Mr.  Wolfgang  Stöckl  as  members  of  the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2018?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  5  (b)  of  the  same 
report,  the  Fifth  Committee  also  recommends  that 
the  General  Assembly  designate  Mr.  Aldo  Mantovani 
(Italy) as Vice-Chair of the International Civil Service 
Commission for a four-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2018.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to designate Mr. Aldo Mantovani as Vice-Chair of the 
International Civil Service Commission for a four-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2018?
It was so decided.
17-38805
(e) Appointment of members of the Independent 
Audit Advisory Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/569)
The  President:  In  paragraph  4  of  the  report, 
the  Fifth  Committee  recommends  that  the  General 
Assembly  appoint  Mr.  Richard  Quartei  Quartey 
(Ghana)  and  Ms.  Janet  St.  Laurent  (United  States 
of  America)  as  members  of  the  Independent  Audit 
Advisory  Committee  for  a  three-year  term  of  office 
beginning on 1 January 2018.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
appoint Mr. Richard Quartei Quartey and Ms. Janet St. 
Laurent as members of the Independent Audit Advisory 
Committee for a three-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2018?
It was so decided.
(j) Confirmation of the appointment of members of 
the Investments Committee
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/570)
The President: The Fifth Committee recommends 
in paragraph 4 of its report that the General Assembly 
confirm  the  appointment  by  the  Secretary-General 
of  Ms.  Kemi  Adeosun  (Nigeria)  and  Ms.  Keiko 
Honda (Japan) as ad hoc members of the Investments 
Committee for a one-year term of office beginning on 
1 January 2018.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
confirm  the  appointment  by  the  Secretary-General  of 
Ms.  Kemi  Adeosun  and  Ms.  Keiko  Honda  as  ad  hoc 
members of the Investments Committee for a one-year 
term of office beginning on 1 January 2018?
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
sub-items (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (j) of agenda item 115?
It was so decided.
Reports of the Fifth Committee
The  President:  The  positions  of  delegations 
regarding the recommendations of the Fifth Committee 
have  been  made  clear  in  the  Committee  and  are 
reflected in the relevant official records. If there is no 
proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall 
take it that the General Assembly decides not to discuss 
3/4
A/72/PV.55 
17/11/2017
the reports of the Fifth Committee which are before the 
Assembly today. Statements will therefore be limited to 
explanations of vote.
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of 
decision 34/401, the General Assembly agreed that
“When the same draft resolution is considered 
in a Main Committee and in the plenary meeting, 
a delegation should, as far as possible, explain its 
vote only once, that is, either in the Committee or 
in the plenary meeting, unless that delegation’s vote 
in the plenary meeting is different from its vote in 
the Committee.”
May  I  further  remind  delegations  that,  also  in 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401, 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
the 
recommendations contained in the reports of the Fifth 
Committee, I should like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same 
manner  as  was  done  in  the  Fifth  Committee,  unless 
notified otherwise in advance.
Agenda item 133
Financial reports and audited financial statements, 
and reports of the Board of Auditors
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/572)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 7 of its report.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution.  The  Fifth  Committee  adopted  it  without 
a  vote.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  do 
the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 72/8).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 133.
Agenda item 137
Programme planning
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/72/524)
The President: The Assembly has before it a draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution.  The  Fifth  Committee  adopted  it  without 
a  vote.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  do 
the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 72/9).
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
this stage of its consideration of agenda item 137.
Programme of work
The  President:  Before  adjourning  the  meeting, 
I  would  like  to  inform  members  that,  as  announced 
in  today’s  Journal,  the  consideration  of  agenda  item 
126, entitled “Interaction between the United Nations, 
national  parliaments  and 
Inter-Parliamentary 
Union”, originally scheduled for this morning, has been 
postponed to a later date to be announced.
the 
The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.
4/4 
17-38805
