United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
37th plenary meeting
Monday, 30 October 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Perera 
(Sri Lanka), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 76 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/349)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/72/342, 
A/72/372 and A/71/372/Corr.1)
Draft resolution (A/72/L.3)
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  With 
regard to the matter under discussion, I would like to 
state  that  combating  impunity  is  inarguably  a  noble 
objective  as  we  strive  to  attain  justice.  We  support 
this intention and are working to achieve it within the 
framework of the United Nations. Achieving justice is 
the primary responsibility of relevant national judicial 
bodies,  in  accordance  with  their  domestic  mandates 
and jurisdictions.
While  we  are  deliberating  on  the  report  (see 
A/72/349)  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
we  should  like  to  recall  that  the  relationship  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC  should  take  into 
account the separate and independent nature of the two 
bodies and the absence of an organic or structural link 
between them. It is a source of great concern that some 
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  are  attempting  to 
make the General Assembly into a General Assembly 
for the States Parties to the Rome Statute.
In rejecting this trend, which is made crystal-clear 
in the annual periodic draft resolution on the ICC report 
(A/72/L.3), my delegation is expressing its decisive and 
clear-cut  opposition  to  it.  Time  and  again,  the  draft 
resolution’s sponsors propose numerous new paragraphs 
to advance loose interpretations that do not reflect the 
letter  and  spirit  of  the  Relationship  Agreement,  but 
rather improperly advance the distinct and transparent 
objective  of  empowering  a  Court  that  claims  to  be 
independent  and  characterized  by  the  specificity  of 
its jurisdiction.
In  the  light  of  a  Statute  that  proposes  a  legal 
framework for the Court, we in the Sudan have constantly 
expressed our position in the informal meetings on the 
draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the  Court  and  will 
continue to do so. Furthermore, we call for abiding by 
the scope and framework of the relations between the 
United  Nations  and  the  Court,  with  no  expansion  or 
excessively broad interpretation of the relationship.
The relationship should therefore continue without 
any attempt by the Court to lay claim to universality. 
The  mandate  of  the  United  Nations,  its  agencies  and 
organs is clear, and any attempt to deviate from it will 
sidetrack  the  Organization  from  its  goals  and  modus 
operandi,  while  also  seriously  endangering  it  and  its 
activities, given the lack of consensus about the Court 
and the Rome Statute.
The relationship between the ICC and the Security 
Council is a flagrant form of politicization of the Court’s 
work. There should be no link between a judicial organ 
supposedly  meant  to  administer  international  justice 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-35526 (E)
*1735526*
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
(A/72/342) 
treaties, 
in  particular 
The  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  on 
and  a  political  organ  that  is  influenced  by  political 
interests,  when  it  is  that  organ  that  refers  certain 
countries’  situations  to  the  Court  and  spares  other 
countries from having to appear before the Court. This 
reflects the conflict between justice and the rule of law.
the 
relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
should 
respect  the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement without trying to integrate the International 
Criminal  Court  into  the  United  Nations  system. 
This  runs  counter  to  the  nature  and  the  scope  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement.  We  are  concerned  about  the 
ICC’s  interference  in  the  work  of  the  Secretariat  and 
the Court’s attempts to direct Secretariat staff in their 
dealings  with  Member  States,  which  merely  expect 
reports from the Secretariat on respect for their rights.
The  work  of  the  Court  and  of  the  administrative 
system  is  not  within  the  bounds  of  the  law,  which 
reflects  the  Court’s  willingness  to  gain  legitimacy 
by  any  possible  means,  which  is  a  flawed  and  weak 
approach, not only because of its contradictory Statute 
but also owing to the corrupt and nepotistic practices 
at  work  within  the  Court.  The  Court  is  undermining 
international  law  as  it  is  in  breach  of  numerous 
international 
the  Vienna 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties  of  1969  and  the 
Vienna  Convention  on  Diplomatic  Relations  of  1961. 
Further, in terms of immunity, the Rome Statute runs 
counter  to  international  law.  The  fact  that  the  Court 
does  not  have  recourse  to  transitional  justice,  which 
violates the principles of peace and reconciliation, is a 
contradiction that in the end fuels wars and disputes in 
Africa. The Statute’s articles give full authority to the 
Prosecutor  to  preside  over  national  prosecutions,  and 
the  Prosecutor  can  withdraw  the  right  to  investigate. 
We  therefore  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  Court  and 
call  on  all  States  to  reconsider  the  Statute  and  the 
contradictory practices to which it gives rise.
The  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
before the Assembly today states that, since the Statute 
came into force 15 years ago, the Court has considered 
only 25 cases, of which only five have been completed. 
We all wish to prevent heinous crimes and to combat 
impunity, but at this rate, how can that be achieved? It 
certainly cannot be done through the politicization of 
justice and the use of double standards.
I would like to add that the Court’s foremost flaw 
is how it has paved the way for voluntary contributions 
to  its  budget.  Donations,  including  from  civil-society 
organizations  and  individuals,  fund  the  majority  of 
the  Court’s  budget  today,  and  it  is  well  known  that 
the European Union (EU) underwrites the lion’s share 
thereof. Now, when the observer of the European Union 
refers only to African States in the examples from the 
Court he cites (see A/72/PV.36), is that a coincidence? 
That is the question. For us, it is clearly not a coincidence. 
Otherwise, the EU observer would have also mentioned 
cases of States before the Court pursuant to sub-articles 
(a)  and  (c)  of  article  13  of  the  Rome  Statute,  and  not 
just those referred to the Court by the Security Council 
under Chapter VII of the Charter, as he did. In addition, 
the  States  whose  situations  have  been  referred  to  the 
ICC are both African States. I need not say more.
We  know  that  the  Court  was  founded  mainly  to 
respond  to  humankind’s  suffering  resulting  from  the 
crime  of  aggression —  the  worst  international  crime. 
The suffering that led directly to the establishment of 
the Court, as some speakers before me have mentioned, 
was  first  addressed  in  1947,  two  years  after  the  end 
of  the  Second  World  War  and  its  tragedies,  which 
were  unprecedented  in  human  history,  at  which  time 
the  General  Assembly  agreed  in  principle  to  develop 
a  system  of  international  justice.  Our  issue  is  not  to 
respond to it politically or diplomatically but as a matter 
of conscience. The question is whether we will one day 
see the Prosecutor of the ICC agree to investigate one 
of the States mentioned by the EU this morning. Will 
the  Security  Council  one  day  refer  a  case  to  the  ICC 
without recourse to article 13 (b) of the Rome Statute? 
This is the ethical and legal question to which we need 
a response.
Mr.  Giacomelli  Da  Silva  (Brazil)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for its report to the 
General  Assembly  (see  A/72/349)  and  congratulate  it 
on its contribution to the fight against impunity and for 
promoting respect for the rule of law. I also join speakers 
before  me  in  expressing  my  thanks  to  the  President 
of  the  ICC,  Judge  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  for 
presenting the report and for her efforts aimed at making 
the Court a more effective institution. As this is her last 
time participating in the work of the General Assembly 
in that capacity, Brazil takes this opportunity to thank 
her for her long-standing commitment to the causes of 
human rights and international criminal justice.
2/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
(spoke in English)
As  a  proud  founder  of  the  ICC,  Brazil  is  pleased 
to see that the Court continues to gain strength as the 
first  permanent  tribunal  established  to  help  to  end 
impunity for the most serious international crimes. As 
an instrument for ensuring that those accused before it 
are judged with fairness and full respect for their rights, 
the ICC is a vehicle for justice and peace.
I am pleased to recall not only that all South American 
countries are parties to the Rome Statute but also that 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  represent  the 
second-largest regional group among States parties, the 
first being the Group of African States. It is important 
to  stress  that  any  misperception  of  bias  or  selectivity 
in  the  Court’s  activity  will  be  definitively  dispelled 
only by advancing the universality of the Rome Statute, 
thereby expanding the Court’s room to operate. This is 
particularly  relevant  when  one  considers  that,  so  far, 
a number of important international actors are not yet 
parties to the Statute.
As for the outcomes of the 2010 Kampala Review 
Conference, the activation of the amendments regarding 
the crime of aggression in 2017 will represent a major 
contribution  to  completing  the  international  criminal 
justice  system.  It  will  give  additional  meaning  to  the 
prohibition of the use of force, thereby fostering a more 
stable, just and democratic world order.
The  workload  of  the  Court  continues  to  increase 
significantly.  In  this  context,  I  recall  my  delegation’s 
concern  regarding  the  financing  of  Security  Council 
referrals. This issue is structural in nature and lies at 
the very core of the relationship between the Court and 
the United Nations, particularly the General Assembly.
Once again, we reiterate our call for implementation 
of article 13 of the Relationship Agreement and of article 
115  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  provide  guidance 
in the sense that such costs should be met — at least 
partially  —  by  funds  provided  by  the  United  Nations 
and not fall solely upon the parties to the Rome Statute. 
It is equally important to highlight that, as laid out in 
Article  17  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
General  Assembly  has  the  exclusive  responsibility  to 
consider  and  approve  the  budget  of  the  Organization. 
The proper funding of Security Council referrals would 
enhance the credibility of both the Court and the United 
Nations. To date, the budget allocated for the Court in 
relation  to  these  referrals  amount  to  approximately 
A/72/PV.37
€58  million,  but  the  current  situation  is  neither  fair 
nor sustainable.
the  relationship  between 
The  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
contains  a  number  of  recommendations  aimed  at 
improving 
the  Security 
Council  and  the  Court.  Brazil  concurs  with  the 
assessment  that  a  more  structured  dialogue  between 
them on issues of mutual interest — both thematic and 
situation-specific — would be beneficial. Through its 
jurisprudence,  the  Court  has  accumulated  significant 
knowledge  on  issues  such  as  children  and  armed 
conflict,  women  and  peace  and  security,  and  the 
protection of cultural property.
Cooperation between the Security Council sanctions 
committees  could  also  be  improved,  especially  with 
regard to travel bans and the freezing of assets. Brazil 
also  notes  that  certain  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations have been providing the Court with much-
needed support in the field, always in accordance with 
their mandate and basic principles.
Brazil  notes  with  appreciation  that  providing 
justice  for  victims  remains  an  essential  component 
of  the  daily  work  of  the  Court.  We  welcome  the 
reparations  procedures  that  are  ongoing  in  different 
cases and the fact that the Trust Fund for Victims has 
assisted more than 450,000 persons with physical and 
psychological  rehabilitation  as  well  as  with  material 
support. We commend efforts to enhance the protection 
of witnesses, including through relocation agreements, 
and we stress the positive role of cooperation through 
strengthening national capacities.
The  quest  for  peace  and 
is  always 
challenging, and this challenge is inherent to the search 
for a more just and cooperative world order. Let us not 
fall  into  the  trap  of  operating  with  false  dichotomies 
that seem to oppose peace to justice and sovereignty to 
accountability. We should instead focus on the shared 
values  that  bring  the  General  Assembly  together  and 
which  have  made  the  first  permanent,  treaty-based 
International Criminal Court a reality. Brazil remains 
firm  in  its  commitment  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
cause of justice that motivated its creation.
justice 
Ms. Krasa (Cyprus): It is a privilege to address the 
General Assembly. My delegation aligns itself with the 
statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union (see A/72/PV.36) and would like to deliver some 
additional remarks.
17-35526
3/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
It  is  our  strong  conviction  that  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC) contributes greatly to the overall 
goal of the United Nations of working towards a more 
peaceful and just world, thereby serving the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The 
Court continues to rely on the indispensable support of 
the  United  Nations  and  of  individual  Member  States. 
As  foreseen  by  the  architects  of  the  Rome  Statute 
system,  such  support  is  crucial  to  its  ability  to  fulfil 
its  mandate.  In  this  respect,  we  support  the  further 
strengthening  of  the  relationship  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court  in  order  to  adjust  to  new  and 
emerging common challenges.
We  warmly 
thank  President  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi  for  presenting  the  report  of  the  Court  (see 
A/72/349).  As  the  report  reflects,  the  Court  had  yet 
another  full  year  in  terms  of  judicial  proceedings, 
investigations, 
and 
institutional developments. We welcome the significant 
progress made with regard to reparations for victims.
examinations 
preliminary 
that 
to  note 
We  are  especially  pleased 
the 
Governments  of  the  Gambia  and  South  Africa  have 
rescinded  their  notifications  of  withdrawal,  and  we 
regret  that  the  withdrawal  of  Burundi  has  come  into 
effect. We are further pleased to note that Argentina, 
Chile,  the  Netherlands  and  Portugal  notified  their 
consent to be bound by the amendments on the crime 
of aggression. We look forward to the next Assembly 
of  States  Parties  for  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the 
crime of aggression to be activated, in accordance with 
the consensus decision reached at the Kampala Review 
Conference, thereby fully realizing the Rome Statute as 
originally drafted.
Cyprus  is  pleased  to  have  served  from  October 
2013  until  the  end  of  2016  as  a  focal  point  for  the 
promotion  of  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  It 
remains  committed  to  the  collective  responsibility  of 
all  State  parties  towards  this  end.  We  firmly  believe 
that universal ratification is the only way to effectively 
address jurisdictional gaps and other current challenges 
and shortcomings. We would take this opportunity to 
call upon all States not yet parties to the Rome Statute 
to ratify it. Within this framework, in July, our Foreign 
Minister joined the President of the Assembly of States 
Parties and other Foreign Ministers in a video campaign 
promoting ratification.
Cyprus appreciates the Court’s important mandate 
in  ensuring  accountability  for  the  war  crime  of  the 
destruction  of  cultural  property.  The  protection  of 
cultural  heritage  was  one  of  the  priorities  of  our 
recent  chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of  Ministers 
of  the  Council  of  Europe,  which  culminated  in  the 
conclusion  of  the  Nicosia  Convention  on  Offences 
related  to  Cultural  Property,  which  was  opened  for 
signature in May. The Office of the Prosecutor of the 
ICC  participated  in  two  events  that  took  place  under 
the auspices of the Cyprus chairmanship, in Strasbourg 
and  New  York  in  January  and  February,  respectively, 
and  which  focused  on  strengthening  the  international 
legal framework for the protection of cultural heritage. 
Moreover,  our  Permanent  Mission  in  New  York  is 
currently  preparing  the  launch  of  an  informal  group 
of  friends  for  cultural-heritage  protection,  which 
will  take  a  multifaceted  approach  thereto,  including 
using  the  international  criminal  justice  angle,  by 
supporting 
and 
existing 
relevant organizations.
resolutions 
initiatives, 
In  closing,  my  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate 
its  commitment  to  and  unequivocal  support  for  the 
Court. At the same time, we express our readiness to 
engage  in  a  constructive  dialogue  with  States  parties 
and States non-parties alike. We remain committed to 
the  consolidation  and  reinforcement  of  international 
criminal  justice  and  are  pleased  that  the  Court 
fully  recognizes  its  own  responsibility  in  terms  of 
continuously  improving  its  operations  and  increasing 
its efficiency and effectiveness.
Mr. García Reyes (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
Guatemala  thanks  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  for  the  annual  report  of  the  Court 
on  its  activities  in  2016  and  2017  (see  A/72/349).  We 
also welcome the publication by the United Nations of 
the  manual  of  best  practices  for  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court, which has contributed to further strengthening 
cooperation  between  the  two  institutions.  We  cannot 
miss this opportunity to thank and congratulate Judge 
Fernández de Gurmendi for her years of dedication to 
the Criminal Court.
We  know  that  the  support  and  cooperation  of  the 
senior  management  of  the  United  Nations  regarding 
the Court are of the utmost importance, as is the active 
participation of the current Secretary-General and his 
team.  We  hope  that  such  cooperation  is  maintained, 
since  it  is  through  that  type  of  actions  that  the  work 
of  the  Court  can  be  strengthened  and  demonstrate  its 
crucial performance at the international level.
4/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
We  have  noted  and  welcomed  the  information 
according  to  which  the  Court  continues  to  explore 
opportunities  to  increase  its  working  collaboration 
with  its  main  United  Nations  partners,  through,  inter 
alia, regular round-table meetings between the United 
Nations and the Court to discuss practical cooperation 
arrangements,  best  practices,  lessons  learned  and 
new challenges. For that reason, my delegation awaits 
with interest the next meeting, expected to take place 
this December.
that 
Let  me  recall 
in  October  2012,  when 
Guatemala  assumed  the  presidency  of  the  Security 
Council,  it  convened  an  open  debate  (see  S/PV.6849), 
considering that structured dialogue between the Court 
and the Council on issues of common interest, as well 
as  on  issues  regarding  specific  situations,  could  and 
can  improve  compliance  with  the  obligations  created 
through the referrals by the Council and contribute to 
the fight against impunity.
We know that the Court and the Security Council 
have  different  functions,  but  we  consider 
them 
complementary  with  regard  to  addressing  the  most 
serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the  entire  international 
community, as outlined in the Rome Statute. Therefore, 
we believe that it is necessary to increase cooperation 
between  the  Court  and  the  Security  Council  in  order 
to  unite  efforts  and  contribute  to  the  prevention  of 
such  crimes,  which  undermine  peace  and  security. 
Additionally,  it  is  necessary  to  encourage  efforts  to 
combat impunity for such crimes. We believe that it is 
opportune to maintain periodic exchanges between the 
Council and the Court, independently of the informative 
meetings on the referred situations.
Cooperation  is  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars 
on  which  the  proper  functioning  of  the  Court  rests. 
Therefore,  the  firm  commitment  of  States  parties  is 
crucial for increasing the capacity of the Court so as to 
ensure accountability for crimes commited, bring about 
justice and provide reparations to victims, as well as to 
help prevent future crimes of this sort, in accordance 
with the spirit of the Rome Statute.
In  order  to  better  adapt  to  the  new  challenges 
facing  the  United  Nations  and  the  Court,  the  States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  membership  of 
the  United  Nations  should  strive  to  strengthen  their 
cooperation and continually reaffirm the relevance and 
importance of international criminal justice in order to 
ensure the rule of law and maintain international peace 
and security.
In  that  vein,  we  cannot  forget  to  mention  the 
important  draft  resolution  contained  in  document 
A/72/L.3,  which  the  General  Assembly  will  vote 
on  today,  and  which  my  delegation  co-sponsored.  It 
highlights  that  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  an 
independent  permanent  judicial  institution,  which, 
by  the  adoption  of  its  Statute,  has  a  unique  historical 
significance. Having said that, we call upon the United 
Nations  membership  to  approve  the  draft  resolution, 
since  it  promotes  the  vital  role  that  the  Organization 
plays  in  international  peace  and  justice,  and  thus  to 
again cooperate with the International Criminal Court.
Mr. Jürgenson (Estonia): Estonia aligns itself with 
the statement delivered by the observer of the European 
Union (see A/72/PV.36)
We  thank  President  Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for 
her  report  (see  A/72/349)  and  her  ongoing  service  to 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  We  welcome 
the  opportunity  for  continued  dialogue  to  discuss 
the  contributions  of  the  Court  and  the  international 
community  to  international  criminal  justice.  It  is  in 
our common interests to identify challenges, reflect on 
possible  solutions  and  find  practical  ways  to  advance 
accountability for the most serious crimes committed.
We  note  the  steady  increase  in  the  Court’s 
workload.  The  Court  is  currently  dealing  with  more 
cases  and  situations  than  ever,  covering  now  most  of 
the regions of the world. We acknowledge the Court’s 
first  decision  to  authorize  an  investigation  of  crimes 
in  Europe,  specifically  in  Georgia,  demonstrating 
that  no  perpetrator  can  expect  impunity  for  the  most 
serious international crimes, regardless of where they 
occur.  The  increasing  number  of  cases  and  situations 
also demonstrates that many States entrust their hopes 
for  justice  and  accountability  to  the  Court.  That  is 
testimony to the good work that the Court has done.
We note the important judicial developments that we 
have seen in the past year. We acknowledge specifically 
the judgment in the case of Bemba et al., concerning the 
situation in the Central African Republic, and the start 
of the trial in the case of Dominic Ongwen. Those cases 
importantly  express  the  Court’s  intolerance  towards 
sexual violence as a tactic of war and its commitment to 
hold accountable those committing those acts. We also 
acknowledge  the  Court’s  first  conviction  for  crimes 
related  to  the  destruction  of  cultural  heritage  and  the 
17-35526
5/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
first conviction for offences against the administration 
of justice relating to witness tampering.
However,  the  increasing  workload  also  creates 
challenges  for  the  Court  to  remain  efficient  and 
effective. Therefore, we encourage the Court to further 
streamline  its  administrative  and  judicial  processes 
and  make  more  efficient  use  of  its  resources.  We 
also  encourage  the  Court  to  continue  exploring  the 
possibilities of using new technologies and developing 
and implementing meaningful performance indicators 
in order to improve efficiency.
In  order  for  the  Court  to  perform  its  mandate 
efficiently,  effective  national  and  Security  Council 
cooperation  is  crucial.  We  note  with  concern  that 
arrest warrants are outstanding for 15 individuals and 
that last year the Court again had to deliver decisions 
finding failure by a State to comply with its obligations 
to cooperate with the Court. It is regrettable that since 
2009,  Omar  Al-Bashir  has  still  not  been  arrested  and 
surrendered to the Court. We call upon all States and 
the Security Council to take appropriate action to fully 
cooperate with the Court and bring those perpetrators 
to justice in order to end impunity.
The ICC is the only permanent international court 
established in order to put an end to impunity for the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern,  and  thus  to  contribute  to  the  prevention  of 
such crimes as well as to the progressive development 
of  international  criminal  law.  Now,  as  we  reach  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Court,  it  is  high  time  to 
make full use of the international justice that the Rome 
Statute offers.
The  international  community  already  agreed,  in 
1998, that the Court should also have jurisdiction over 
the crime of aggression. With 34 States parties already 
having ratified the Kampala amendments on the crime 
of aggression, we look forward to a decision to activate 
the  relevant  Court  jurisdiction  during  the  sixteenth 
session of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome 
Statute,  to  be  held  here  in  New  York  in  December. 
While  acknowledging  the  different  interpretations  of 
some  legal  provisions,  we  should  not  forget  the  main 
message  that  civilized  countries  have  agreed  upon, 
namely, that aggression is never acceptable. We should 
have  confidence  in  international  law  and  its  fair  and 
impartial application by the ICC.
Estonia  is  a  long-standing  supporter  of  the  ICC. 
We  consider  that  the  fight  against  impunity  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  is  critical  to  ensure  a  fair  and 
just  society,  by  holding  perpetrators  accountable  and 
ensuring justice for victims. The existence of the ICC 
is a clear message that the crimes specified in the Rome 
Statute will not be tolerated and will not go unpunished.
Mrs.  Carnal  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Preventing  wars  and  safeguarding  peace  are  the 
foremost  objectives  of 
the  United  Nations.  The 
Charter  stipulates  that  Members  shall  refrain  in  their 
international relations from the threat or use of force. 
That provision is one of the most fundamental rules of 
the international legal order, yet it has proved difficult 
to  translate  those  words  into  action.  Armed  conflicts 
between States remain a sad reality.
This year States parties to the Rome Statute of the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) have an opportunity 
to  strengthen  the  application  of  the  prohibition  of  the 
use of force. At the upcoming session of the Assembly 
of States Parties they will decide on the activation of 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  on  the  crime  of  aggression. 
That crime covers acts of aggression that amount to a 
manifest violation of the Charter of the United Nations. 
Punishing that crime could contribute to avoiding and 
sanctioning extreme forms of wars of aggression.
The activation of the jurisdiction of the Court is in 
the core interest of the United Nations and its Member 
States.  The  Security  Council  will  have  an  additional 
instrument in its toolbox. It will be able to demand that 
an aggressor back down, or else refer the situation to the 
ICC.  States  would  benefit  from  enhanced  protection, 
as  aggressive  leaders  would  fear  prosecution  and 
punishment for acts of aggression.
The definition of the crime of aggression has been 
discussed for decades. In 2010 in Kampala, States parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  reached  a  clear  compromise  and 
adopted it by consensus. It would be a mistake to bring 
that compromise into question now. Rather, more than 
70  years  after  the  judgments  delivered  at  Nuremberg 
and Tokyo, it is high time to make acts of aggression a 
punishable crime. Switzerland therefore calls upon all 
States parties to the Rome Statute to support the simple 
activation  of  the  jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with  the 
consensual outcome reached in Kampala.
Earlier this year, the Secretary-General highlighted 
that  the  ICC  and  the  United  Nations  both  strive  to 
maintain international peace and security and to ensure 
that the rule of law prevails. Indeed, the Court makes it 
possible to pursue a broad set of objectives of the United 
6/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
Nations and its Member States. That holds particularly 
true  for  Sustainable  Development  Goal  16.  Given  its 
deterrent  effect  and  ability  to  deal  with  the  past,  the 
ICC complements the work of national judicial systems 
and actors in the rule of law at the international level. 
Switzerland therefore welcomes the fact that the Court 
works  closely  with  States  and  the  United  Nations,  as 
shown in this year’s report of the Court (see A/72/349).
Regrettably,  atrocity  crimes  are  often  committed 
outside the jurisdiction of the ICC. The inability of the 
Court  to  act  in  such  situations  is  a  stark  reminder  of 
the need to continue promoting the universality of the 
Rome  Statute.  Switzerland  strongly  regrets  Burundi’s 
withdrawal  from  the  Statute  and  encourages  the 
Government  to  reconsider  that  decision.  In  contrast, 
we  welcome  the  decisions  of  South  Africa  and  the 
Gambia to remain States parties. Switzerland calls on 
all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  join  the  Rome 
Statute. Only a universal International Criminal Court 
can act as a safety net to ensure justice for victims all 
over the world.
represents  a  milestone 
in 
The  Court 
Ms.  Carrión  (Uruguay)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Uruguay expresses its gratitude for the excellent report 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/72/349), 
as  well  as  to  its  President,  Ms.  Silvia  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi, for the clarity with which she presented it 
(see A/72/PV.36). It is important to note that the Court 
received 4,725 applications during the reporting period.
the 
international  community’s  fight  against  impunity  and 
the  commission  of  the  most  serious  crimes  against 
humankind and the integrity and rights of persons. The 
development of international awareness of the need to 
end  atrocities  against  human  beings,  both  individuals 
and  groups,  and  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security  were  the  reason  for  the  establishment  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  Abuses  and  acts  of 
violence, failure to respect international humanitarian 
law, slavery and many other atrocity crimes must cease, 
and the International Criminal Court, through its latent 
judgment,  exercises  a  certain  degree  of  control  over 
those crimes.
The  importance  of  the  Court’s  establishment  and 
the  mission  for  which  it  is  responsible  leads  us  to 
support all actions that would improve its management. 
In  that  regard,  we  remind  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  need  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  so  as 
to enable it to perform its duties. Furthermore, we urge 
States to become parties to the Statute by ratifying it 
and its amendments.
Uruguay  is  convinced  that  cooperation  among 
States  and  with  the  Court  is  fundamental  for  the 
fulfilment of the Court’s objectives and for it to be able 
to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  those  who  commit  the 
heinous acts classified in the Statute of the Court.
Uruguay  recognizes  the  efforts  the  Court  is 
undertaking, as set out by its President, to improve its 
procedures and performance. The Court, having been 
established  only  a  short  time  ago,  requires  the  full 
cooperation of States in its proceedings going forward, 
including 
the  provision  of 
information, compliance with the measures requested, 
insight  and  support  for  the  conduct  and  completion 
of proceedings.
through  cooperation, 
We need to bear in mind the work, independence 
and  impartiality  of  the  judges  and  of  the  Court  as  a 
whole. We must also remember that the Court plays a 
role subsidiary and complementary to that of national 
jurisdictions.  In  that  regard,  States  are  responsible 
for  implementing  the  law  and  assuming  the  primary 
jurisdiction  that  is  theirs.  The  Statute  clearly  sets 
out  that  the  Court  may  not  act  while  proceedings  are 
under way in the territory of a State party, suspending 
its  activity  in  such  cases.  The  Rome  Conference,  in 
adopting  the  Statute  and  in  establishing  and  defining 
the crimes to which it would apply, helped codify the 
development  of  international  law,  which  has  led,  and 
should  continue  to  lead,  States  to  incorporate  those 
norms in their respective legislations.
For  Uruguay,  the  fight  against  crimes  against 
humankind,  war  crimes,  genocide  and  aggression  is 
of  the  utmost  importance.  We  therefore  also  consider 
important the activation of the Court’s jurisdiction over 
the crime of aggression. We would like to reiterate that 
accountability for the commission of such grave crimes, 
no  matter  who  committed  them,  must  continue  to  be 
a  priority  objective  for  the  international  community. 
Strengthening  the  work  of  the  Court  is  therefore 
essential. In that connection, I would like to remind the 
Assembly that Uruguay, in its support for the work of 
the  Court,  has  put  forward  an  excellent  candidate  for 
judge in Ms. Ariela Peralta.
Mr.  Kyslytsya  (Ukraine):  Ukraine  aligns  itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union  (see  A/72/PV.36).  We  would  like  to 
add a few remarks in our national capacity.
17-35526
7/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
We welcome the presentation by President Fernández 
de  Gurmendi  (see  A/72/PV.36),  and  we  support  the 
activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
which has proved its efficiency by promoting the rule 
of law and putting an end to impunity for perpetrators 
of the most serious crimes.
Following  our  decision  to  accept  the  jurisdiction 
of  the  Court,  we  cooperate  closely  with  the  Office  of 
the  Prosecutor,  whose  representatives  visited  Ukraine 
twice  during  the  reporting  period.  We  commend  the 
continuation  of  the  examination  of  the  situation  in 
Ukraine  by  the  ICC.  We  particularly  appreciate  the 
preliminary conclusions by the Office of the Prosecutor 
stating  that  the  international  armed  conflict  between 
Ukraine and the Russian Federation began when Russia 
deployed  its  armed  forces  in  parts  of  the  Ukrainian 
territory and that the law of international armed conflict 
continues to apply to the ongoing state of occupation.
With  regard  to  eastern  Ukraine,  the  Office  is 
undertaking  a  detailed  factual  and  legal  analysis  of 
the Russian authorities’ ongoing support for the illegal 
armed  groups.  Such  support  includes  equipment, 
financing  and  personnel,  as  well  as  general  direction 
in planning the actions of the illegal armed groups in 
a  manner  that  indicates  exercise  of  genuine  control 
over them. Apparently it is due to this that the Russian 
Federation decided not to become a party to the Rome 
Statute, which it had previously signed.
In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to  recall  that 
the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol by the 
Russian  Federation,  recognized  by  resolution  71/205, 
and Russia’s illegal actions in Donbas represent acts of 
aggression. We welcome the ratification of the Kampala 
amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression  by  34  States 
parties. We look forward to a decision of the Assembly 
of States Parties to activate the Court’s jurisdiction in 
this matter in the coming months.
While recognizing the importance of the promotion 
of universal participation in the Rome Statute, we support 
all efforts aimed at raising awareness and understanding 
of the functioning of the Court. Moreover, in order to 
ensure the universality of the Court’s jurisdiction, we 
need to promote close cooperation by States as a direct 
response to crimes under the Rome Statute.
We  know  how  difficult  it  is  to  bring  those 
responsible for the most serious crimes to justice, owing 
to a lack of cooperation with the ICC. In that regard, 
we  are  convinced  that  the  international  community 
must  enhance  its  support  to  ICC  efforts  to  combat 
impunity and ensure the right to justice for all victims 
of such crimes.
Ukraine  actively  participated  in  the  Preparatory 
Committee  on  the  Establishment  of  an  International 
Criminal  Court.  In  2000,  Ukraine  signed  the  Rome 
Statute,  and  my  country  was  the  first  State  not  party 
to ratify the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  The  Ukrainian 
Parliament’s  adoption  of  a  constitutional  amendment 
last year paved the way for the ratification of the Rome 
Statute. All of the relevant State authorities are actively 
involved  in  developing  implementing  legislation  to 
that end.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize again the 
importance of cooperation by States that are not parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute,  the  United  Nations  and  other 
international and regional stakeholders with the ICC to 
enable it to carry out its activities.
Finally,  yet  importantly,  Ukraine,  as  in  previous 
years,  co-sponsored  a  draft  resolution  (A/72/L.3) 
prepared and introduced by Mexico this morning (see 
A/72/PV.36). We believe that its adoption by consensus 
will  demonstrate  our  common  strong  support  for  the 
ICC  and  our  determination  to  fight  against  impunity 
and  thereby  contribute  to  the  prevention  of  the  most 
serious crimes.
Mr.  Ly  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like 
to  warmly  thank  Ms.  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi, 
President of the International Criminal Court, for her 
leadership at the head of the Court and for presenting 
the  report  on  its  work  (see  A/72/349).  Under  her 
presidency,  the  Court  will  have  made  enormous 
progress  in  streamlining  its  work  and  improving  the 
effectiveness  of  that  work.  As  she  presents  her  final 
report  as  President  of  the  Court,  she  can  be  proud 
of  the  great  work  she  has  accomplished  with  great 
rigour,  professionalism,  independence  and  courtesy 
throughout the years. She has the eternal gratitude of 
States parties, victims and the whole of humankind. I 
would also like to pay tribute to all those who, within 
the Court and elsewhere, commit themselves on a daily 
basis  to  ensuring  that  victims  of  mass  crimes  have 
the right to justice. Senegal remains convinced that a 
world of peace and stability means justice for all and 
reiterates its commitment to work with all stakeholders 
to that end.
8/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
The consideration of the report of the International 
Criminal  Court  today  reflects  the  importance  of  that 
institution in the global fight against impunity and in 
respect for the rule of law. The work of the Court during 
the period under consideration does indeed show that 
the  first  and  only  permanent  international  court  in 
charge of prosecuting mass crimes makes a significant 
contribution to delivering justice to millions of victims 
around the world and has given affected populations the 
feeling that all of humankind has heard their cries.
There can be no more eloquent testimony than the 
record  of  25  cases  that  have  come  before  the  Court 
to  date.  The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has  conducted 
10  preliminary  examinations  all  over  the  world,  in 
addition to the active phase of reparations undertaken 
by the Trust Fund for Victims. All that leads me to say 
that, slowly but surely and irreversibly, the universality 
of  international  criminal  justice  is  making  progress. 
Senegal  invites  all  States  to  provide  the  necessary 
assistance and cooperation to the Court so that it can 
continue to fulfil its mandate in an optimal manner.
On 8 December 2014, three years ago, at the time 
of his election as President of the Assembly of States 
Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal 
Court, Mr. Sidiki Kaba — then Minister for Justice, now 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Senegal  —  called  for 
us to rise to the challenge of cooperation, universality, 
complementarity  and  strengthening  relations  among 
States  parties.  Actions  and  steps  forward  have  been 
taken  in  that  direction,  but  we  must  admit  that  we 
have  many  challenges  yet  to  overcome.  Nonetheless, 
by  demonstrating  our  resolve  and  determination  in 
combining our efforts, we can arrive at our goal.
Together  we  will  work  towards  ever-closer  cross-
cutting, multilateral and multifaceted cooperation that 
is constantly being strengthened to win the fight against 
impunity  and  build  a  more  peaceful,  prosperous  and 
fairer world. Together, we will work for the universal 
ratification of the Rome Statute and for the integration 
of those norms into the domestic law of States so that 
all  victims  throughout  the  world,  wherever  they  live, 
have  an  equal  and  fair  chance  of  obtaining  justice. 
Together,  we  will  work  towards  complementarity  by 
strengthening  national  judicial  systems  so  that  they 
can  judge  even  the  most  serious  crimes  that  strike 
our collective conscience, to ensure that peace reigns. 
Together,  we  will  work  to  breathe  new  momentum 
into  the  relations  between  the  Court  and  all  regions 
of the world, particularly Africa, through a frank and 
constructive dialogue in the Assembly of States Parties.
As  the  great  philosopher  Kierkegaard  said,  “It  is 
not  the  path  which  is  the  difficulty;  rather,  it  is  the 
difficulty  which  is  the  path.”  Let  us  never  forget  that 
it  is  through  difficult  situations  that  we  inscribe  the 
greatest causes of humankind.
Mr. Muhammad Bande (Nigeria): My delegation 
is grateful to the President of the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  the  report  (see  A/72/349)  introduced 
for  consideration  today.  We  applaud  the  Court  for  its 
ability  to  cope  with  the  heavy  workload  during  the 
reporting period.
therefore  welcome 
The  ICC  was  created  based  on  the  notion  that 
impunity  must  be  challenged  and  that  persons  found 
guilty of committing serious crimes must be punished. 
We 
the  appreciable  progress 
recorded  by  the  Court  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
and crimes against humanity. We commend the Court 
for its significant contributions to the development of 
substantive and procedural international criminal law. 
We  also  appreciate  the  essential  contributions  of  the 
Court to the promotion of the rule of law.
We have studied the report closely and observed that, 
since the start of its operations, the Court has opened 
a total of 25 cases and conducted investigations in 10 
situations: the Central African Republic I and II, Côte 
d’Ivoire, Darfur in the Sudan, the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, Georgia, Kenya, Libya, Mali and Uganda. 
In  addition  to  its  investigations,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor is conducting 10 preliminary examinations 
in some countries, among which is Nigeria.
As  indicated  in  the  report,  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  analysed  information  on  a  variety  of 
crimes  allegedly  committed  in  different  contexts, 
including  alleged  sexual  and  gender-based  crimes 
in  the  armed  conflict  between  Boko  Haram  and  the 
Nigerian security forces. The Office has also gathered 
information on Nigerian national proceedings relating 
to eight potential cases identified by the Office and has 
exonerated Nigeria of the allegations arising from the 
2011 elections. Nigeria will continue to support the ICC 
as  it  continues  its  preliminary  examination  process. 
Recently,  we  had  the  honour  to  welcome  the  chief 
Prosecutor of the ICC. We appreciate the Prosecutor’s 
meetings  with  civil-society  organizations  and  victims 
of alleged Rome Statute crimes committed in Nigeria.
17-35526
9/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
We  congratulate  the  Court  for  the  successful 
handling  of  its  first  case  involving  the  destruction 
of  cultural  property,  namely,  attacks  on  historic 
monuments in Timbuktu, Mali, which was the Court’s 
first  case  involving  an  admission  of  guilt  by  the 
accused.  That  will  serve  as  a  good  precedent  for  the 
Court in handling similar cases.
Nigeria joins other Member States in commending 
the decisions of the Gambia and South Africa to return 
to the Court. As a committed member of the Assembly 
of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal Court, we wish to reaffirm our commitment 
to the Court and the fight against impunity for Rome 
Statute crimes. We also believe that the Court represents 
an international mechanism for ensuring justice for all.
Nigeria wishes to emphasize that it has no intention 
of  pulling  out  of  the  ICC.  However,  we  will  continue 
to  work  in  concert  with  States  parties  of  the  ICC 
towards improving the working methods of the Court 
for a fairer and more efficient delivery of its mandate 
in  the  service  of  humankind  and  equitable  justice. 
Nigeria believes that a strengthened and reinvigorated 
ICC, as a symbol of the international criminal justice 
system, has an important role to play in offering solace 
to victims of heinous, despicable and dastardly crimes. 
We  have  a  collective  duty  to  this  generation  and  to 
future generations to give a voice to the voiceless and 
ensure that the perpetrators of those crimes are brought 
to justice.
We welcome the ongoing support and cooperation 
that  the  Court  receives  from  the  senior  leadership  of 
the  United  Nations.  We  commend  the  support  of  the 
previous  Secretary-General  and  equally  appreciate 
the  supportive  engagement  with  the  Court  of  the 
current Secretary-General and his team, and we hope 
that  the  close  collaboration  will  be  sustained.  The 
crucial  cooperation  of  the  Under-Secretary-General 
for  Legal  Affairs  and  Legal  Counsel  as  the  interface 
between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations  is  also 
highly appreciated. As the main forum for diplomacy, 
the  United  Nations  presents  a  unique  medium  for 
promoting the Rome Statute issues and considerations 
for greater understanding.
Nigeria  welcomes 
ongoing 
cooperation  with  States,  non-State  parties,  regional 
organizations,  national  bar  associations  and  other 
relevant  stakeholders.  We  also  wish  to  express  our 
gratitude  for  the  generous  contributions  from  the 
the 
Court’s 
European  Commission,  the  Netherlands,  Norway  and 
the International Organization of la Francophonie that 
have enabled the Court to conduct nine high-level and 
technical events during the reporting period.
Conferences  and  seminars  are  important  forums 
where  participants  benefit  from  the  exchange  of 
ideas  and 
information  and  have  an  opportunity 
to  better  understand 
that  connection, 
seminars — such as the one in Addis Ababa with African 
States parties — are necessary, as they become veritable 
avenues for addressing the areas of misunderstanding 
between African States and the Court.
issues.  In 
We call on non-States parties to become signatories 
to the Rome Statute in order to enhance the universality 
of the Court and to enable it to function effectively in 
the fight against impunity.
Mr. Bin Momen (Bangladesh): Bangladesh thanks 
the President of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
for  presenting  a  comprehensive  report  (see  A/72/
PV.36). We take note of the ICC’s increased workload 
and the corresponding demand in the level and scope 
of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
ICC.  We  are  pleased  to  once  again  co-sponsor  the 
draft  resolution  entitled  “Report  of  the  International 
Criminal Court” (A/72/L.3).
Bangladesh  considers  the  Court’s  hearing  and 
verdict  in  its  first  case  involving  the  destruction  of 
cultural property, as well as admission of guilt by the 
accused, to be a significant development. We appreciate 
the report furnished on the situations and cases under 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  the  ongoing  investigations 
into 10 cases and the proceedings with reparations for 
victims  in  four  cases  (see  A/72/349).  It  is  also  useful 
to  have  an  overview  of  the  preliminary  examinations 
being conducted by the Office of the Prosecutor.
One of the most compelling narratives emanating 
from  the  ICC  is  the  significant  number  of  victims 
it  has  been  supporting  through  its  determination  of 
reparations and also through its Trust Fund for Victims. 
We underline the need for a sustained flow of resources 
to  that  Trust  Fund  from  States  parties,  philanthropic 
organizations,  foundations  and  individuals,  among 
others.  We  thank  the  Trust  Fund  in  particular  for 
announcing 
launch  of  a  victims  assistance 
programme in Côte d’Ivoire.
the 
Bangladesh attaches great importance to addressing 
sexual and gender-based violence during armed conflicts 
10/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
and  to  ensuring  accountability  and  justice  for  such 
crimes committed by both State and non-State actors. 
We recall the first conviction for sexual violence by the 
Court last year in what is also its first case involving 
command  responsibility.  Bangladesh  reaffirms  its 
readiness  to  share  its  national  experience  in  ensuring 
justice  for  victims  of  rape  and  other  forms  of  sexual 
violence  committed  during  our  war  of  independence 
in  1971,  and  the  renewed  judicial  and  administrative 
efforts made in recent times to promote due recognition 
and reparation for such victims.
We  stress  that  the  cooperation,  assistance  and 
support  of  State  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  as  well 
as  of  other  States,  remain  critical  for  discharging  the 
ICC’s mandate in a sustained and meaningful manner. 
We  reiterate  the  importance  of  recognizing  the  ICC’s 
mandate  and  competence  through  the  United  Nations 
system  with  a  view  to  acknowledging  its  valuable 
contribution to international peace, the rule of law, and 
peaceful, just and inclusive societies.
We  underscore  the  Security  Council’s  continued 
support  for  the  effective  functioning  of  the  Court, 
including  for  the  cases  referred  to  the  Court  by  the 
Council.  As  a  lead  contributor  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations,  we  will  continue  to  extend 
the necessary cooperation to the Court in the mission 
areas  where  our  peacekeepers  and  military  observers 
are deployed.
importance 
to 
Bangladesh  attaches  high 
the 
primary  responsibility  of  national  jurisdictions  to 
investigate and to prosecute the crimes defined in the 
Rome Statute. We fully endorse the recommendations 
for the possible inclusion of issues related to the Rome 
Statute  in  legal  and  judicial  reform  programmes 
supported  by  the  United  Nations  in  the  context  of 
development assistance for the rule of law. That would 
be  particularly  important  to  States  that  are  not  party 
to the Rome Statute and that have been alleged to have 
committed atrocity crimes against their own civilians.
The ongoing violence and the forcible displacement 
being  pursued  by 
the  Myanmar  security  forces 
against  the  Rohingya  in  Rakhine  state  reinforce  the 
overriding  importance  of  adhering  to  the  principles 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  including  in  the  context  of  a 
fledgling  democracy.  The  international  community, 
especially the Security Council, has a responsibility to 
seek accountability for what the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights has termed a textbook 
example  of  ethnic  cleansing  in  Rakhine  state.  In  a 
recent statement, the Special Adviser to the Secretary-
General on the Prevention of Genocide and the Special 
Adviser  on  the  Responsibility  to  Protect  emphasized 
that those implicated in the commission of the reported 
atrocity  crimes  must  be  held  accountable,  whatever 
their status. It is critical that the Myanmar authorities 
allow access to the United Nations fact-finding mission 
as an important first step in that regard.
As  a  State  party,  Bangladesh  remains  committed 
to  the  promotion  of  the  universality  and  the  full 
implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute.  We  thank  two 
States  parties  for  reversing  their  decision  concerning 
their  notifications  of  withdrawal  from  the  Rome 
Statute.  The  ICC  cooperation  seminars  and  other 
cooperation  arrangements  with  relevant  international 
and regional organizations should also contribute to the 
universalization agenda.
Bangladesh  underscores  the  need  for  appropriate 
capacity-building  support,  through  training  and  the 
sharing of knowledge, for national jurisdictions of State 
parties, pursuant to the principle of complementarity. In 
that context, we reiterate the need to consider budgetary 
internships  and  visiting  professional 
support  for 
programmes 
for  applicants 
from  States  parties 
representing developing and least developed countries. 
We  reiterate  that  due  attention  should  be  given  to 
ensuring  equitable  geographical  representation  for 
staffing at the Court, especially at the professional level.
Bangladesh  looks  to  the  forthcoming  session  of 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  for  constructive  and 
pragmatic decisions, including on the activation of the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression.  We 
thank those delegations that have actively contributed 
to taking forward the intersessional work.
To  conclude,  we  reiterate  the  need  to  uphold 
solidarity  among  States  parties  and  the  integrity  and 
credibility of the legal and judicial proceedings of the 
Court in the overarching interest of fighting impunity 
for  internationally  defined  crimes  wherever  and  by 
whomsoever they are committed.
Mr.  Oña  Garcés  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Ecuador  expresses  its  appreciation 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
Ms.  Silvia  Fernández  de  Gurmendi,  for  her  presence 
at  the  meeting  this  morning  (see  A/72/PV.36)  to 
present the report of the International Criminal Court 
17-35526
11/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
on its work carried out in 2016 and 2017, contained in 
document A/72/349, issued on 17 August.
amendments  will  mark  a  historic  milestone  in  the 
history of international criminal justice.
Ecuador  has  consistently  defended  the  role  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and justice as an essential component 
of conflict prevention and of reparations to the victims 
of  the  most  serious  crimes.  On  this  occasion,  we 
reiterate our support for the Court as a mechanism with 
unique characteristics to fight impunity. We call for all 
States present in the Hall to also lend their support so 
that  the  Court  can  effectively  and  concretely  exercise 
its  jurisdiction  over  persons  and  its  competence  with 
respect  to  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international community.
Certainly  that  is  the  least  that  should  be  done 
when  history  has  witnessed  past  and  present  events 
that  have  made  children,  women  and  men  victims 
of  unimaginable  atrocities  that  deeply  shock  the 
conscience of humankind, as stated in the preamble to 
the Rome Statute. Indeed, the crime of genocide, crimes 
against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression, 
which are subject to complementary jurisdiction, can be 
appropriately judged if there is universal accession by 
States to the Statute and if States provide the necessary 
cooperation to the Court.
In that regard, for Ecuador, the universality of the 
Rome  Statute  must  be  an  irrevocable  objective  that 
will  enable  us  to  achieve  genuine  universal  criminal 
justice  that  ensures  the  fight  against  impunity  and 
allows  for  the  due  punishment  of  those  who  commit 
the  most  serious  crimes  affecting  the  international 
community. However, the universality of the Statute is 
not just full membership of the International Criminal 
Court,  but  also  the  guarantee  that  all  cases  involving 
the commission of crimes subject to the jurisdiction of 
the  Court  are  tried  without  double  standards,  without 
exceptions  based  on  political  or  economic  interests 
and without the use of different parameters to measure 
the same situations. To ensure such independence, it is 
essential that the International Criminal Court have the 
necessary financial resources to carry out its work and 
that any reduction in expenses not affect crucial areas 
of the Court’s functioning.
that 
We  also  believe 
the  strengthening  of 
international  criminal  justice  requires  the  acceptance 
of the Kampala amendments, adopted in 2010. Ecuador 
is  in  the  process  of  ratifying  those  amendments. 
We  believe  that  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Kampala 
In  addition,  we  believe  that  it  is  necessary  to 
strengthen  the  mechanisms  for  obtaining  resources 
and  invigorating  the  cooperation  of  the  international 
community with regard to the Trust Fund for Victims, to 
the extent that the Fund assists the work of the Court on 
a fundamental element of justice, that is, the protection 
of victims and reparations for the crimes dealt with in 
the Rome Statute.
We also wish to reiterate our position with regard 
to  the  principle  of  complementarity  with  the  Court. 
We  attach  particular  importance  to  complementarity, 
since it is a mechanism that allows States to cooperate 
in  the  fight  against  impunity  and  has  something 
of  singular  importance,  namely,  national  capacity-
building.  Through  complementarity,  the  International 
Criminal Court supports national legislations; it is not 
a substitute for them.
Finally, my delegation would also like to express its 
support for the efforts of the United Nations system to 
improve the channels of cooperation with the Office of 
the Prosecutor and other organs of the Court. We call 
on  Member  States  to  provide  all  possible  support  for 
the fulfilment and execution of the orders issued by the 
relevant authorities of the International Criminal Court.
Mrs.  Gregoire  Van  Haaren  (Netherlands):  The 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union (see A/72/PV.36).
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  would  also  like 
to  join  others  in  expressing  gratitude  to  President 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi  for  her  presence  in  the  Hall 
today and wishes to compliment her for her outstanding 
presentation  (see  A/72/PV.36).  The  annual  report  of 
the International Criminal Court (see A/72/349) gives 
a clear overview of the considerable work done in the 
reporting period and of the challenges ahead.
Given  the  great  importance  of  the  topic  at  hand, 
allow me to briefly address the following three issues: 
the fight against impunity, the current challenges facing 
the Court, and the universality of the Rome Statute.
First,  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  remains 
deeply  committed  to  the  fight  against  impunity  for 
the most serious international crimes. In that light, we 
welcome the fact that the threshold of 30 ratifications 
of the crime of aggression amendments has been met, 
12/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
which enables the Assembly of States Parties to activate 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  on  the  crime  of  aggression  at 
its upcoming session. The Kingdom of the Netherlands 
attaches  great  importance  to  a  clear  decision  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  in  that  respect,  as  it  will 
constitute  a  fundamental  step 
towards  ensuring 
accountability and ending impunity.
While underlining the Court’s essential role in the 
fight against impunity for all core international crimes, 
we would like to stress that the primary responsibility 
for ensuring accountability continues to lie with States, 
as  follows  from  the  principle  of  complementarity.  In 
order to maintain a functioning system of international 
criminal justice, thereby promoting international peace 
and justice overall, it is important to stress the primary 
responsibility of States to investigate and prosecute the 
crimes  as  defined  in  the  Rome  Statute.  The  adoption 
of national legislation in order to effectively implement 
the Statute is of critical importance. To put it in simple 
terms:  justice  begins  at  the  national  level,  and  not  in 
The Hague.
That  brings  me  to  the  second  point  I  want  to 
address. As the report sets out clearly, the International 
Criminal Court is confronting a tremendous workload. 
In  dealing  with  the  many  challenges,  with  that  heavy 
workload  and  high  expectations,  the  Court  should  be 
able  to  depend  upon  the  States  parties  in  a  number 
of  ways.  First,  the  financing  of  the  Court  needs  to 
be  adequate.  We  cannot  expect  more  from  the  Court 
without  ensuring  that  it  has  sufficient  means  to  meet 
those  increasing  expectations.  Secondly,  as  the  Court 
has itself repeatedly underlined, it inevitably has to rely 
on the States parties for the enforcement of its decisions 
and judgments. The Rome Statute clearly lays down the 
obligations of the States parties to support and facilitate 
the  work  of  the  Court  throughout  the  various  stages 
of  its  judicial  proceedings.  In  that  respect,  various 
forms of voluntary cooperation, such as the conclusion 
and  implementation  of  framework  agreements  on  the 
relocation of witnesses and the execution of judgements, 
constitute  a  vital  contribution  to  the  effective  and 
efficient functioning of the Court.
As  the  Court  is  more  occupied  than  ever  and 
confronts  an  impressive  number  of  trials,  appeals, 
preliminary 
investigations 
examinations 
situation 
investigations, it is imperative for States parties to assist 
the Court. That relates not only to their contributions 
to the regular budget, but also to the need to intensify 
continent-crossing 
the  Prosecutor, 
by 
and 
their  voluntary  cooperation  with  the  Court.  Without 
that cooperation, the Court will be unable to effectively 
exercise its mandate.
Thirdly,  I  would  like  to  address  the  issue  of  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute.  The  International 
Criminal  Court  embodies  norms  and  values  that  are 
both  fundamental  and  universal.  On  that  basis,  the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands would like to reiterate the 
importance of the ratification of the Rome Statute by all 
States Members of the United Nations. In that regard, 
we  welcome  the  decisions  taken  by  those  countries 
that  reversed  their  previously  announced  intention  to 
withdraw from the Rome Statute.
We commend the various organs of the Court for 
their  comprehensive  efforts  to  promote  a  meaningful 
and constructive dialogue with those and other States 
parties. We express our hope that the positive signals and 
expressions of trust in the Court’s fundamental mission 
will resonate throughout the international community. 
We believe that next year’s milestone — the twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  —
will  provide  a  unique  opportunity  to  emphasize  the 
crucial  relevance  of  the  Court  and  advocate  for  more 
global support.
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  and,  more 
specifically,  The  Hague,  as  the  international  city 
of  peace  and  justice,  are  the  proud  hosts  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  As  we  approach  the 
twentieth anniversary of the Rome Statute, let us work 
together  in  promoting  the  universality  of  its  mission. 
Let  us  strengthen  our  cooperation  in  facing  present-
day challenges, which unfortunately pose threats to the 
maintenance of international justice. The fight against 
impunity  is  more  pressing  than  ever.  Strengthening 
cooperation  among  States  parties,  but  also  between 
States  parties  and  with  the  Court,  is  of  paramount 
importance  in  that  regard.  Securing  global  justice  is, 
after all, our joint responsibility.
Ms. Agladze (Georgia): Georgia aligns itself with 
the  statement  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union (see A/72/PV.36). In addition, I would like to add 
a few remarks in my national capacity.
At  the  outset,  let  me  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Ms.  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi, for the report on the activities 
of  the  Court  (see  A/72/349).  My  delegation  wishes 
to  recognize  her  dedication,  which  has  been  pivotal 
in  guiding  the  Court  during  uneasy  periods  of  its 
17-35526
13/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
existence. We also thank the President of the Assembly 
of States Parties to the Rome Statute, Mr. Sidiki Kaba, 
for his role and leadership in this critical period.
Court’s  activities  and  ongoing  investigations  in  the 
country. I would like to recall some of the key aspects 
of the ongoing cooperation with the ICC.
This  year’s  report  features  several  important 
achievements  of  the  Court,  including  the  first  case 
involving  the  destruction  of  cultural  property  as  an 
attack  against  historic  monuments  and  buildings. 
That  case  marked  the  first  precedent  in  the  Court’s 
proceedings of the admission of guilt by the accused. 
The ongoing discussions on the activation of the Court’s 
jurisdiction concerning the crime of aggression are of 
critical  importance,  and  we  would  like  to  commend 
the  facilitator  for  the  able  stewardship  and  for  all  the 
efforts made. Georgia has ratified the amendments to 
the Rome Statute on the crime of aggression and looks 
forward to the decision in December of the Assembly of 
States Parties on its swift activation.
Preventing  the  most  heinous  crimes  that  threaten 
the  peace,  security  and  well-being  of  the  world  is 
vital  to  upholding  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level, based on the principles of international law and 
the common values of humankind that both the Court 
and  the  United  Nations  share.  While  we  approach 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  creation  of  the  ICC, 
sadly  the  world  continues  to  witness  crimes  of  an 
unspeakable  scale  and  gravity.  The  establishment  of 
the International Criminal Court set a new paradigm. 
Accountability  is  important  to  build  a  future  free  of 
violence  by  avoiding  the  recurrence  of  conflicts  and 
repetition of violence, as well as to ensure justice for 
victims of mass atrocity crimes.
Georgia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  work 
undertaken  by  the  Court  in  accordance  with  its 
mandate. Effective and comprehensive cooperation and 
assistance by States are indispensable for the Court to 
carry out its activities successfully, more so given the 
Court’s complementary role to that of national criminal 
jurisdictions.  Georgia  has  been  cooperating  with  the 
Court  ever  since  the  ICC  Prosecutor  announced  the 
start of the preliminary examination of the 2008 war in 
Georgia, on 14 August 2008. As an enabling factor for 
the full-fledged cooperation with the ICC, Georgia has 
put in place adequate implementing legislation for the 
Rome Statute at the national level.
Moreover,  on  26  July  2017,  the  Registrar  of  the 
International Criminal Court, Mr. Herman von Hebel, 
on  behalf  of  the  Court  signed  an  agreement  with  the 
Government  of  Georgia  in  Tbilisi  to  facilitate  the 
Georgia has been the victim of international crimes 
since the 1990s — and notably in August 2008, when 
thousands of civilians were targeted in a repeated wave 
of  ethnic  cleansing  and  other  heinous  crimes.  At  the 
national  level,  Georgia  has  carried  out  investigations 
of  an  unprecedented  scale.  The  investigation  team 
interviewed more than 7,000 witnesses and carried out 
crime-scene  inspections  in  over  30  inhabited  areas. 
Where  evidence  was  inaccessible  due  to  the  Russian 
occupation of the Georgian territories, the crime scenes 
were examined through satellite imagery.
Despite our continued efforts, our ability to carry 
out  additional  necessary  investigative  measures  in 
the  Abkhazia  and  Tskhinvali  regions  at  this  stage  is 
hampered  by  the  illegal  foreign  occupation.  In  those 
circumstances,  the  request  of  Prosecutor  Bensouda 
and  the  subsequent  decision  of  Pre-Trial  Chamber  I 
to authorize an investigation into all crimes under the 
Rome Statute committed during the 2008 international 
armed  conflict  between  the  Russian  Federation  and 
Georgia  have  been  recognized  as  important  steps  in 
acknowledging the ordeal suffered by the victims.
The  same  Chamber  decision  stated 
that  an 
international  armed  conflict  existed  between  Georgia 
and  the  Russian  Federation  between  1  July  2008  and 
10  October  2008.  Pre-Trial  Chamber  I  further  noted 
that the consistent pattern of deliberate killing, beating 
and threatening civilians, detention, looting properties 
and  systematic  destruction  of  Georgian  houses 
took place. As the Prosecutor emphasized, we hope that 
the investigation will lead to establishing the truth and 
bringing justice to the victims who suffered so terribly 
during the conflict.
Georgia will continue to strongly support the Court 
in its critical work and stands ready to further strengthen 
cooperation with all States parties in reaching the goals 
of  ending  impunity,  upholding  justice  and  achieving 
sustainable peace.
Mr.  Llorentty  Solíz  (Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia): The Plurinational State of Bolivia would like 
to  express  its  gratitude  for  the  report  (see  A/72/349) 
on  the  activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
submitted by its President, Judge Silvia Fernández de 
Gurmendi (see A/72/PV.36), and we thank her for her 
leadership at the head of the Court.
14/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
  The  Bolivian  State,  which  respects  international 
law,  abides  by  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Rome  Statute 
and  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  principles  of 
complementarity and cooperation with the International 
Criminal  Court.  Bolivia  had  an  active  part  in  the 
establishment  of  the  Court,  and  in  its  development 
through the Assembly of States Parties since its signing 
of the Rome Statute in 1998.
Bolivia takes due note of the course of jurisdictional 
activities completed and the tasks the Court undertakes 
to  consolidate  its  complex  institutional  organization 
and to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
work of the various organs of which it is composed. We 
acknowledge the Court’s progress in resolving its cases 
and the increase in new investigations, which could lead 
to a greater caseload at a pace gradually consolidating 
the principles of international criminal justice.
The  discovery  of  truth  through  the  gathering  of 
evidence  and  witness  testimonies  in  very  diverse 
cultural  contexts  is  a  complex  task  that  requires  the 
full  cooperation  and  complementarity  of 
judicial 
systems,  both  from  the  States  that  are  requesting  the 
jurisdiction of the Court and from the United Nations 
through  support  in  the  cases  that  are  referred  by  the 
Security Council.
In  the  cases  referred  by  the  Security  Council,  it 
will be necessary to study, within the Council, the need 
to supplement the Court’s budget to cover the costs of 
investigations, trials and possible victim reparations. In 
that context, we note the need for greater coordination 
and cooperation among the Court, the Security Council 
and the wider United Nations to achieve the common 
objectives of international peace and security.
At the end of its first 15 years of existence and nearly 
20 years since the signing of the Rome Statute, the Court 
has shown its ability to solve complex cases in sensitive 
areas.  The  scope  of  the  Statute  is  still  being  tested 
today, and the difficulties of an unprecedented model 
of  universal  criminal  justice  for  a  multipolar,  diverse 
and plural world are being overcome labouriously.
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  part  of  a 
global  undertaking  that  affects  all  States.  Its  mission 
is consonant with strengthening international criminal 
justice and the values it embodies: peace and security, 
respect  for  human  rights,  guarantees  of  due  process, 
protection of victims and the end of impunity. In that 
connection, we call for its universality and urge those 
States that are not yet party to join it.
It is appropriate to repeat that it is not possible to 
leave unpunished those who committed, or continue to 
commit, crimes affecting the international community. 
All States, whether they are party to the Court’s Statute 
or  not,  have  the  primary  responsibility  for  taking 
action  and  contributing  to  the  prevention  and  trial  of 
such crimes. The International Criminal Court, acting 
independently and effectively, using the best methods 
of  cooperation  and  complementarity  with  States,  is 
vital to guarantee universal criminal justice.
Mr. Pérez de Nanclares (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
Once again, I have the honour of addressing the General 
Assembly on an issue that Spain considers to be of the 
utmost importance. The fight against the most serious 
international crimes constitutes, without any doubt, an 
essential  element  in  maintaining  international  peace 
and  justice.  It  is  also  an  imperative  flowing  from 
the  principle  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  is  inherent  to 
the  international  legal  system.  Fighting  impunity, 
prosecuting  the  criminals  who  commit  such  crimes 
and ensuring justice for the victims must be permanent 
goals for the whole international community.
Besides  endorsing  the  speech  delivered  by  the 
observer  of  the  European  Union  (see  A/72/PV.36), 
I  would  like  to  highlight  the  work  undertaken  by  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  That  work  is 
detailed  in  the  report  (see  A/72/349)  covering  the 
period  from  1  August  2016  to  31  July  2017,  which 
was  presented  this  morning  by  the  President,  Judge 
Fernández  de  Gurmendi  (see  A/72/PV.36).  To  her, 
the  judges,  Prosecutor  Bensouda  and  the  rest  of  the 
Court’s personnel we express our most sincere thanks. 
We also thank the Mexican delegation for its work in 
the promotion and coordination of the draft resolution 
(A/72/L.3), which Spain has co-sponsored.
Since the very beginning of the preparations for the 
Rome Statute, Spain has been a strong advocate of the 
role assigned to the ICC in the difficult task of fighting 
impunity with the tools of the international rule of law. 
We also played a very active role at the 2010 Kampala 
Conference.  Accordingly, 
the  Kingdom  of  Spain 
submitted its instrument of ratification of the Kampala 
amendments quite early, on 24 September 2014. There 
is no doubt that my country will maintain its traditional 
firm and sincere support to the work of the Court.
17-35526
15/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
At the present time, we are all perfectly aware of 
the  existing  disagreement  regarding  the  activation  of 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression. 
The  consensus  compromise  reached  at  the  Kampala 
Conference, reflected in articles 8 bis, 15 bis and 15 ter, 
allowed for the adoption of the text of the amendments 
and the successful conclusion of the Conference. Now 
that  the  threshold  of  the  30  ratifications  needed  for 
its entry into force has been surpassed, the Assembly 
of  States  Parties  will  be  responsible  for  adopting  the 
decision to activate the jurisdiction of the Court.
However, the underlying problem has re-emerged. 
Different  positions  have  emerged  as  to  whether  the 
focus  is  on  article  15  ter,  paragraph  3,  or  on  article 
121,  paragraph  5.  They  reach  diametrically  opposed 
conclusions.  That  makes  it  extremely  difficult  to 
forecast the result of the next session of the Assembly 
of States Parties, to be held in December.
In that connection, Spain would like to commend 
Austria’s work as facilitator and advocate above all for 
reaching a desirable consensus within the Assembly of 
State Parties. Moreover, we also stand for the need to 
comply with what was agreed in Kampala. That is why 
the decision to be finally adopted should not imply the 
reopening, de facto or de jure, of the negotiation of what 
was agreed in Kampala, already ratified by 34 States.
Without  going  into  specific  figures,  which  have 
already  been  mentioned  repeatedly  by  the  speakers 
who preceded me, I would like to underline four of the 
positive aspects of the work carried out by the Court in 
the past year.
First  is  the  extension  of  the  geographic  scope  of 
the Court’s action, which encompasses four continents: 
America,  Africa,  Asia  and  Europe.  The  fight  against 
impunity  for  international  crimes  knows  and  should 
know no borders.
Secondly, we must commend the influence of the 
Court  on  State-level  proceedings  against  the  crimes 
under its jurisdiction. There have been various instances 
in which, pursuant to the principle of complementarity, 
the Court has not exercised its jurisdiction because of 
the intervention of national jurisdictional bodies.
Thirdly, we welcome the consolidation of the role 
of the Trust Fund for Victims, which, as the observer 
of  the  European  Union  said  this  morning,  constitutes 
an  essential  pillar  of  the  work  of  the  International 
Criminal Court.
Lastly,  we  applaud  the  Court’s  first  conviction 
for  offences  against  the  administration  of  justice,  in 
accordance with article 70 of the Rome Statute, as well 
as  the  consideration  given  to  the  attacks  on  historic 
monuments and buildings.
Despite the undoubtedly positive assessment of the 
overall work of the Court, there are at least four aspects 
that require a critical assessment.
The  first  is  the  withdrawal  of  Burundi.  Our 
ambition is for the number of State parties of the Statute 
to  continue  increasing,  without  any  withdrawals.  In 
that regard, we must welcome the fact that South Africa 
and the Gambia reconsidered their initial decisions to 
withdraw from the Statute.
The  second  aspect  that  has  become  a  source  of 
some  concern  pertains  to  collaboration  between  the 
Court  and  the  Security  Council.  We  believe  that  the 
report  of  the  Court  clearly  identifies  the  elements 
where  improved  collaboration  is  desirable.  Those 
elements  point  towards  sanctions  approved  by  the 
Security  Council  and  its  reaction,  or  lack  thereof,  to 
the notifications of non-collaboration sent to it by the 
ICC. We believe that we should take serious note of the 
report of the Court and act accordingly.
A third element to be underlined is the fact that we, 
the States, must act in appropriate fashion. Cooperation 
with the Court and the proper execution of its decisions 
is  vital  to  achieve  the  necessary  credibility  of  the 
system.  In  that  regard,  particular  attention  should  be 
paid to the arrest of suspects.
Finally, we believe that we must also draw attention 
to the need for the Court to carry out its work effectively 
and  efficiently,  based  on  good  governance  and 
transparency. That in no way precludes our recognition 
of the notable efforts and advances that the Court has 
achieved recently.
Spain  wishes  to  conclude  by  underscoring  the 
vital  importance  of  the  Court  in  the  maintenance 
of  peace,  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  through  the 
effective  fight  against  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
crimes committed against humanity, while reiterating 
the  firm  commitment  of  our  country  to  pursue  that 
commendable objective.
Mr. Okaiteye (Ghana): I would like to join previous 
speakers in thanking the President of the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and  the  Secretary-General  for 
their comprehensive report on the activities of the Court 
16/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
for  the  period  2016/2017,  as  reflected  in  the  report  of 
the Court (see A/72/349).
Ghana attaches great importance to the work of the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  its  role  in  ensuring 
accountability for crimes, providing justice to victims 
and helping to prevent future crimes. In recognition of 
the  relevance  of  international  criminal  justice  for  the 
rule of law and international peace and security, Ghana 
remains committed to the Rome Statute and wishes to 
take this opportunity to pledge its unwavering support 
for the Court and its activities. Ghana’s democracy is 
strongly  rooted  in  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  and  we 
believe that the culture of impunity for atrocity crimes 
should have no place in the twenty-first century.
My  delegation  welcomes 
The  targets  established  under  Goal  16  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  provide  additional 
reasons why international criminal justice issues must 
be mainstreamed within the framework of the rule of 
law  at  the  national  and  international  levels,  and  we 
support the views expressed in the report in that regard.
the  highly  valuable 
cooperation  that  the  ICC  maintains  with  the  United 
Nations and efforts to strengthen the linkages between 
the mandates of the United Nations and the Court. We 
very much encourage the further strengthening of that 
engagement at the working level. We also encourage the 
Court  to  explore  opportunities  for  c1oser  engagement 
with  regional  organizations,  in  particular  with  the 
African Union, which has a strong peace and security 
agenda. While the Court and the Security Council have 
different roles in addressing grave crimes, those roles, 
as rightly indicated in the report, are complementary. 
We  therefore  look  forward  to  increased  cooperation 
and complementarity between the two bodies in order 
to improve the implementation of obligations, enhance 
crime prevention and effectively combat impunity.
As 
in 
the 
report, 
indicated 
the  primary 
responsibility  of  national  jurisdictions  to  investigate 
and  prosecute  crimes  defined  in  the  Rome  Statute, 
and  strengthening  their  capacity  to  do  so  effectively, 
remains  critical  to  ending  impunity  for  international 
crimes.  Consequently,  development  assistance  for 
building  capacities  in  international  investigations  and 
prosecution  and  for  the  incorporation  into  national 
legislation of Rome Statute crimes and principles and 
national  processes  for  cooperation  with  the  Court  are 
an important area of activity.
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  heavy  workload 
of  the  Court  in  the  period  under  review.  With  a  total 
of 25 ongoing cases and investigations in 10 situations 
and  other  preliminary  examinations,  that  is  evidence 
that the Court is more relevant today than ever. In the 
light  of  that  fact,  we  wish  to  call  on  States  parties  to 
seriously consider the issue of complementarity as one 
of the options to be explored in addressing the overload 
of the Court’s work. We call for capacity-building at the 
national level so that national courts can take ownership 
of  some  of  the  trials.  Certainly,  the  independence  of 
those  national  courts  should  be  paramount  in  the 
capacity-building  efforts  in  order  to  ensure  that  fair 
trials are held.
My  delegation  wishes  to  commend  the  Court  for 
its  activities  relating  to  reparations  and  assistance 
provided  through  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims,  as 
reflected in paragraphs 117 and 118 of the report. That 
will help to assuage the suffering of victims and give 
succour  to  their  dependants.  We  urge  States  parties 
to  continue  to  support  the  Fund  and  to  sustain  the 
assistance programmes.
In  view  of  the  importance  Ghana  attaches  to 
those  issues,  the  Government  has  decided  to  present 
the  candidature  of  Ms.  Henrietta  Joy  Abena  Nyarko 
Mensa-Bonsu  for  election  as  a  judge  in  the  ICC  in 
the upcoming elections in December. Suffice it to say 
that Ms. Mensa-Bonsu has all the qualities that States 
parties are looking for in the judges of such an eminent 
Court. We believe that she will be an asset to the Court 
if elected.
We  will  remain  actively  engaged  in  efforts  to 
strengthen the role of the Court as an integral part of 
the international legal system and to promote broad and 
strong support for its important work.
Mr. Trujillo (United States of America): We thank 
President Fernández de Gurmendi for her update of the 
activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
from 1 August 2016 through 31 July 2017.
The  United  States  remains  deeply  committed  to 
accountability  for  atrocity  crimes,  and  we  continue 
to  support  myriad  international,  regional,  hybrid  and 
domestic mechanisms that work in pursuit of that goal. 
Among those options, we have long believed and stated 
that justice is most effective when it is delivered at the 
local  level.  We  would  call  on  the  ICC  and  States  to 
respect genuine domestic efforts to promote justice for 
atrocity crimes.
17-35526
17/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
As  we  look  across  the  landscape  of  international 
justice, we see countries taking on that important task, 
and the United States welcomes the progress they have 
made. In the Central African Republic, personnel have 
been appointed to the Special Criminal Court to begin 
the work of ending impunity for mass atrocities in that 
country. Since May, the Head International Prosecutor 
as  well  as  national  and  international  magistrates, 
prosecutors and investigators have been named. We are 
also encouraged by the work of the Kosovo Specialist 
Chambers,  which  continues  to  ready  itself  for  the 
indictments from the Specialist Prosecutor’s Office. In 
the past year, a roster of judges, along with the President 
of the Court, was selected, and the judges convened and 
adopted rules of procedure and evidence.
In  addition  to  those  positive  steps  in  domestic 
systems, the United States is pleased to see advancements 
in  a  number  of  regional  and  hybrid  efforts  to  end 
impunity for atrocity crimes. For example, in November 
of last year, the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts 
of Cambodia upheld the convictions of Nuon Chea and 
Khieu  Samphan  for  crimes  against  humanity,  finally 
bringing a measure of justice for the victims of murder, 
persecution  and  other  inhumane  acts  in  Cambodia 
decades  ago.  In  South  Sudan,  the  African  Union  is 
working  with  the  South  Sudanese  Government  to 
prepare for judicial processes of accountability, taking 
steps  to  establish  a  hybrid  court  to  prosecute  those 
responsible  for  atrocities  committed  in  that  country. 
For institutions like these, there is still much work to be 
done, but every step forward is a welcome one.
In that vein, the United States has supported building 
a foundation for accountability through documentation 
of atrocities that help domestic courts deliver justice. In 
Iraq, for example, the United States supported Security 
Council  resolution  2379  (2017),  adopted  last  month, 
requesting  that  the  Secretary-General  establish  an 
investigative team composed of international and Iraqi 
experts,  headed  by  a  special  adviser,  to  support  Iraqi 
domestic  efforts  to  hold  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and 
the Levant (ISIL) accountable by collecting, preserving 
and  storing  evidence  in  Iraq  of  acts  that  may  amount 
to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
Information gathered by the team could be used by 
Iraq,  and,  with  the  approval  of  the  Security  Council, 
other  Member  States,  on  the  territory  of  which  ISIL 
has committed acts that may amount to genocide, war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity,  may  request  the 
team  to  collect  evidence  of  such  acts.  The  resolution 
further  encourages  other  Member  States  to  provide 
appropriate  legal  assistance  and  capacity-building  to 
the Government of Iraq in order to strengthen its courts 
and  judicial  system.  Taking  timely  steps  to  gather 
evidence for potential use in criminal prosecutions will 
be  particularly  important,  as  we  know  that  over  time 
material and witness testimony may be more difficult 
or impossible to obtain.
The United States has for years supported Syrian 
non-governmental organizations that are documenting 
human  rights  abuses  and  international  humanitarian 
law  violations  in  Syria,  as  well  as  the  Independent 
International  Commission  of  Inquiry,  which  was 
established in 2011 by the United Nations Human Rights 
Council with a mandate to investigate all human rights 
violations in Syria. The United States has also strongly 
supported  the  call  for  accountability  in  numerous 
Security  Council 
the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons-
United  Nations  Joint  Investigative  Mechanism  to 
investigate chemical-weapon attacks.
resolutions  and  supported 
In the past year, we have supported the international 
community in taking efforts one step further with the 
International,  Impartial  and  Independent  Mechanism 
for  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  established  through 
resolution  71/248,  in  December  2016.  Its  mandate  is 
to  consolidate  and  analyse  evidence  of  violations  of 
international humanitarian law and abuses and violations 
of  human  rights  law,  including  evidence  generated 
by  the  Committee  on  Information,  non-governmental 
organizations and others, and to prepare files in order 
to facilitate fair and independent criminal proceedings 
in  the  appropriate  forums.  That  can  be  an  important 
step forward to support investigations and prosecutions 
of perpetrators of atrocities in Syria.
As  those  and  other  efforts  demonstrate,  it  is 
through multiple institutions and mechanisms that the 
international  community  can  fight  to  end  impunity 
for  those  crimes  that  shock  our  common  conscience. 
As  the  United  States  considers  these  issues  and  how 
they relate to the ICC moving forward, I would recall 
that we have serious concerns with respect to the crime 
of  aggression  amendments,  which  we  believe  contain 
dangerous ambiguities regarding basic issues, such as 
which  States  and  what  conduct  would  be  covered  by 
the  amendments.  As  we  have  said  consistently,  we 
believe that such issues should be clarified before any 
decision is taken by the ICC States parties to activate 
the  amendments.  Taking  concrete  steps  to  do  so  will 
18/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
help ensure that States are able to join together when 
necessary  to  take  action  to  prevent  atrocities  and 
safeguard collective security.
In  conclusion,  as  long  as  minorities  in  Burma 
are  persecuted  and  murdered,  as  long  as  civilians  are 
attacked  with  chemical  weapons  in  Syria,  as  long  as 
South Sudanese children are abducted and forced into 
combat  and  as  long  as  people  are  being  tortured  and 
disappeared  in  Burundi,  States  cannot  stand  by  idly. 
Those  who  are  responsible  for  atrocities  must  face 
consequences  for  their  actions  in  accordance  with 
international  law.  Steadfast  in  our  commitment  to 
pursue justice for the world’s worst crimes, the United 
States will continue our work towards that end.
Mrs.  Pino  Rivero  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  delegation  of  Cuba  takes  note  of  the  report  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/72/349)  and 
expresses its commitment to the fight against impunity 
for  crimes  that  affect  the  international  community. 
Several  issues  —  such  as  the  international  situation 
characterized by armed conflicts, foreign interventions 
to the detriment of the principles of international law, 
which  directly  affects  the  people,  and  the  attempts 
to  withdraw  from  the  Rome  Statute  by  some  of  its 
members  —  positively  demonstrate  once  more  the 
need  for  an  autonomous  international  institution  of 
jurisdiction, which would lead the fight against impunity 
for the most serious crimes against humankind.
However,  based  on  what  is  stipulated  in  articles 
13 (b) and 16 of the Rome Statute, which demonstrate 
the ample powers bestowed upon the Security Council 
in  relation  to  the  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court, the reality is that the Court is far from being an 
independent  institution.  Apart  from  undermining  the 
essence of that organ’s jurisdiction, this issue violates 
the  principle  of  independence  of  judicial  bodies  and 
the transparency and impartiality of the administration 
of justice.
The  referrals  made  to  the  Court  by  the  Security 
Council,  which  are  included  in  the  Court’s  report, 
confirm that negative trend, to which our country has 
made reference on various occasions. We reiterate once 
again  that,  in  the  referral  processes  of  the  Security 
Council,  international  law  is  constantly  violated, 
evidencing  a  selective  policy  towards  developing 
countries,  in  the  name  of  a  supposed  fight  against 
impunity.  That  is  why  Cuba  reiterates  its  position  in 
favour of the establishment of an international criminal 
jurisdiction  that  is  impartial,  non-selective,  effective, 
fair,  complementary 
justice  systems 
and  genuinely  independent,  and  therefore  free  from 
subjugation  to  political  interests  that  might  erode 
its essence.
to  national 
reiterates 
cannot 
that 
The  delegation  of  Cuba 
the 
International  Criminal  Court 
ignore 
international treaties and the principles of international 
law.  The  Court  must  respect  the  principle  of  law 
with respect to the consent of a State to be bound by 
a treaty, as provided for in article 11 of part II of the 
Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, of 23 May 
1969.  Cuba  wishes  to  reiterate  its  serious  concern 
about  the  precedent  set  by  the  decisions  of  the  Court 
to  initiate  judicial  proceedings  against  nationals  of 
States  non-parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  that  have  not 
even accepted the jurisdiction of the Court, pursuant to 
article 12 of its Statute.
The  International  Criminal  Court  must  report  to 
the  General  Assembly  on  its  activities  in  accordance 
with the Relationship Agreement. Although Cuba is not 
a party to the Criminal Court, it is willing to continue 
to actively participate in negotiation processes related 
to  the  Court,  and  especially  on  the  draft  resolution 
on the report of the International Criminal Court that 
the  General  Assembly  adopts  every  year,  which  must 
reflect  the  positions  of  both  States  parties  and  States 
non-parties to the Court.
Cuba reaffirms its determination to fight impunity 
and maintains its commitment to international criminal 
justice, to the principles of transparency, independence 
and impartiality and to the unrestricted application of 
and respect for international law.
Mrs. Betham-Malielegaoi (Samoa): Samoa wishes 
to  convey  its  sincere  appreciation  to  President  Silvia 
Fernández de Gurmendi for her commitment and for the 
achievements she has brought about during her tenure 
as  Judge  and  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. We also thank her for the warm sentiments she 
expressed with regard to Samoa.
Samoa  welcomes  the  constructive  report  on  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/72/349)  and  is 
pleased  to  be  one  of  the  sponsors  of  draft  resolution 
A/72/L.3. Samoa notes with satisfaction that there are 
now 124 States parties to the Rome Statute and further 
welcomes  the  fact  that,  as  of  now,  34  States  parties 
have ratified the Kampala amendments on the crime of 
aggression. Like other States parties, Samoa hopes that 
17-35526
19/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
the sixteenth session of the Assembly of States Parties 
to the Rome Statute will bring about the activation of 
the Court’s jurisdiction over the crime of aggression, as 
agreed in Kampala in 2010.
Samoa  wishes  to  reiterate  its  unwavering  support 
for the Court and its full commitment to the principles 
of the Rome Statute and the rule of law, as Samoa has 
continually  demonstrated  through  its  actions.  Indeed, 
by  hosting  the  President  of  the  International  Court 
during  the  forty-eighth  Pacific  Island  Forum,  held  in 
Apia  in  September,  Samoa  clearly  demonstrated  its 
faith in the Court by facilitating the universality of the 
Rome Statute.
In that regard, Samoa calls upon States Members of 
the United Nations, especially small island developing 
States  like  our  own,  which  have  no  military  capacity 
and  remain  dependent  on  the  rule  of  law,  to  consider 
ratifying  the  Rome  Statute  as  part  of  their  national 
implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  16. 
For  Samoa,  being  a  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute 
virtually  ensures  the  protection  of  its  nationals  and 
further  provides  protection  against  impunity  and  the 
perpetrators of heinous crimes.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like to thank the President of the International Criminal 
Court (ICC), Judge Silvia Fernández de Gurmendi, for 
her  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/72/349).  I 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his report on cooperation between the United Nations 
and  the  ICC  (A/72/PV.342).  The  State  of  Palestine 
welcomes the crucial support of the United Nations for, 
and cooperation with, the ICC as well as the ideas put 
forward to further that cooperation, including through 
regular exchanges between the Court and the Security 
Council  on  the  ongoing  crimes  being  examined  by 
the Court.
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  robust  international 
justice  is  indispensable  to  international  peace  and 
security.  Born  in  reaction  to  the  horrors  of  our 
century  —  from  the  Second  World  War  and  the 
Holocaust to the genocides in Rwanda and the former 
Yugoslavia  —  the  International  Criminal  Court  is 
humankind’s pledge to prevent the recurrence of such 
atrocities. The ICC is the embodiment of our belief that 
there are crimes for which there can be no immunity and 
that it is the common responsibility of all humankind 
to hold those who commit such crimes accountable if 
States  are  unwilling  or  unable  to  do  so.  As  such,  the 
universality of the Court is of the utmost importance, 
and  in  that  regard  we  welcome  the  decisions  of  both 
South Africa and the Gambia to reverse their decisions 
to  withdraw  from  the  Court.  We  call  on  all  States  to 
join  the  ICC  to  fulfil  the  long-overdue  promise  of  a 
universal Court that would ensure that atrocity crimes 
do not go unpunished.
The States parties to the ICC therefore have a duty 
not  to  delay  any  further  the  granting  of  jurisdiction 
to  the  Court  over  the  worst  form  of  the  illegal  use  of 
force,  the  crime  of  aggression.  The  suppression  of 
acts of aggression is of such importance that it stands 
among the purposes of the United Nations enshrined in 
Article 1 of the Charter. As long as we are not willing to 
hold accountable those responsible for the commission 
of  the  crime  of  aggression,  we  will  be  failing  in  our 
responsibility to help prevent such crimes in the future.
The  State  of  Palestine  had  the  honour  to  be  the 
thirtieth  State  to  ratify  the  amendment  on  the  crime 
of aggression, thereby helping to fulfil one of the two 
criteria  for  the  activation  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
over  that  crime.  At  the  upcoming  session  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  of  the  ICC,  and  20  years 
after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  States  parties 
will  have  an  opportunity  and  the  responsibility  to 
activate  the  Court’s  exercise  of  jurisdiction  over  the 
crime of aggression. They must do so in a way that is 
fully consistent with the letter and spirit of the Kampala 
compromise,  which 
includes  specific  provisions 
regarding  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  relation  to 
the  crime  of  aggression.  States  parties  also  must  not 
attempt to further restrict the jurisdiction of the Court 
in relation to this most serious crime.
The  State  of  Palestine  has  pledged 
its  full 
cooperation with the Court and acted accordingly since 
it joined the ICC. It submitted a declaration accepting 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including Jerusalem, which led to the opening 
by the Prosecutor of a preliminary examination of the 
situation in the State of Palestine. The State of Palestine 
submitted extensive communications to the Court with 
respect  to  the  crimes  committed  by  Israeli  officials 
in  relation  to  illegal  settlements  and  their  associated 
regime and the attacks against the civilian population, 
notably in the Gaza Strip during the summer of 2014.
Palestine has the utmost respect for the independence 
of the Court. However, it is clear that all Courts have 
an  obligation  to  ensure  justice  is  neither  delayed  nor 
20/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
denied.  The  ICC  has  a  heightened  responsibility  in 
situations  where  crimes  are  ongoing  so  as  to  prevent 
their  recurrence.  In  the  past  three  years,  during 
which the preliminary examination in the situation in 
Palestine has been under way, Israel has intensified the 
pace  of  its  crimes,  notably  in  relation  to  settlements. 
Israeli leaders have confessed not only to being aware 
of the existence of such crimes, but also to their intent 
to commit them and to continue doing so relentlessly, as 
demonstrated in 2017, when settlement announcements 
have more than tripled compared to 2016.
Given the overwhelming prima facie evidence of the 
commission of crimes by Israeli officials in Palestine, 
and  given  that  those  crimes  are  among  the  most 
documented in recent history, and taking into account 
their recurrence and intensification, their gravity, their 
impact  on  international  peace  and  security  and  their 
link  to  both  colonialism  and  apartheid,  two  of  the 
most  condemned  phenomena  under  international  law, 
including international criminal law, Palestine remains 
an  important  test  for  the  credibility  of  the  Court,  a 
test  that  the  Court  cannot  afford  to  fail.  We  also  call 
on the Prosecutor to ensure that the language used by 
her  Office  does  not  depart  from  the  legal  language 
grounded  in  all  relevant  instruments  of  international 
law,  while  avoiding  language  that  could  be  seen  as 
rooted in political considerations.
On  the  eve  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, the State of Palestine stresses that the 
establishment  of  the  ICC  was  a  historic  step  towards 
entrenching  the  international  rule  of  law.  Preserving 
and empowering the Court is of the utmost importance 
to ensure protection for future generations and to fulfil 
the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
We  all  have  a  responsibility  to  address  the 
discrepancy between the vital mandate of the ICC and 
its too-limited resources. Palestine also underlines the 
important role of civil society and calls on host States 
and  other  States  to  act  decisively  in  addressing  any 
threats  against  organizations  or  persons  cooperating 
with the Court.
Finally, the State of Palestine declares its solidarity 
with all victims of atrocities, and it pledges to support 
the  Court  in  its  endeavour  to  ensure  justice  for  those 
victims  and  save  others  from  such  atrocities.  The 
universality and efficiency of the ICC are paramount if 
we are to honour our commitment to those victims and 
the cause of justice and humanity.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/72/L.3.
Before giving the floor to the speaker in explanation 
of position before action is taken on the draft resolution, 
may I remind delegations that explanations of position 
are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Sudan.
its  commitment 
Mr.  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  reaffirms 
to  fighting 
impunity and to the administration of justice through 
national judicial bodies that are capable and competent 
and in a position to uphold their national jurisdictions 
and  administer  justice  at  the  national  level.  That  is 
the  responsibility  of  national  jurisdictions,  without 
interference or custodianship by any external party. For 
that reason, we clearly and utterly reject any dealings 
with the International Criminal Court (ICC).
The Sudan is not a State party to the Rome Statute, 
which established the ICC, or the Court itself. We also 
reaffirm that we have no obligation to either pursuant 
to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties. 
Furthermore,  we  consider  the  ongoing  attempts  by 
some  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to  make  the 
General Assembly an Assembly of States Parties to that 
Statute to be unlawful. The Court is a separate entity; 
it  does  not  enjoy  any  organic  relationship  with  the 
United Nations.
The obligations of States parties in no way involve 
States non-parties. Therefore, draft resolution A/72/L.3 
has no bearing on the Sudan, and, when adopted, it will 
be given no consideration whatsoever by the Sudan.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of position before action is taken 
on the draft resolution.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/72/L.3, entitled “Report of the International 
Criminal Court”. For the Assembly’s information, the 
draft resolution has been closed to e-sponsorship.
17-35526
21/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that, since the submission of draft resolution 
A/72/L.3,  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  the  document,  the  following  countries  have  also 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania, 
Andorra,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Benin,  Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Croatia, Ecuador, 
El Salvador, France, Georgia, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, 
Ireland, Jordan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, 
Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 
San  Marino,  Senegal,  Tunisia,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  the 
United Kingdom, Uruguay, Vanuatu and the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly wishes to adopt draft resolution A/72/L.3?
Draft resolution A/72/L.3 was adopted (resolution 
72/3).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
the  speaker  in  explanation  of  position  following  the 
adoption of resolution 72/3, may I remind delegations 
that explanations of position are limited to 10 minutes 
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  is  committed  to  the 
international rule of law and to fighting impunity. As 
part of the Nuremberg and Tokyo tribunals, our country 
was present at the birth of international criminal justice. 
Unfortunately,  since  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC) started its work, it has not shown itself to be a 
worthy successor to those two tribunals by living up to 
the importance of that endeavour.
Once  more,  we  are  disappointed  that  the  text  of 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  just  adopted  as  resolution  72/3,  was 
yet  again  updated  with  nothing  more  than  technical 
amendments.  We  consider  it  high  time  to  change  the 
approaches used to draft it. The document should fully 
reflect the positions of the States that are non-parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  ICC.  The  resolution  has 
turned into an artificially preserved selection of hopes 
and  aspirations  that  the  international  community  has 
imposed on the new judicial body since its establishment. 
There is a need to recognize that they do not mirror the 
de facto situation, both within and around the Court.
We  have  expressed  our  vision  of  the  work  of  the 
ICC on several occasions. Unfortunately, last year did 
not give us any grounds to reconsider that evaluation. 
For  example,  with  respect  to  some  of  the  sentences 
issued during the fifteenth year of the ICC, enormous 
resources  had  to  be  spent,  and  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Court  has  been  demonstrated  in  only  one  case: 
in  2011,  the  Court  granted  swift  legal  support  for  the 
bombing of Libya. But when reporting on the issue of 
civilian  victims  of  the  NATO  bombing  of  Libya,  the 
ICC  Prosecutor  stated  that  nothing  had  been  done  to 
investigate  the  crimes  allegedly  committed  by  the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant.
The  Court  continues  to  ignore  the  norms  of 
customary international law on the immunity of officials 
of States that are non-parties to the Rome Statute. As 
a  result,  well-known  concerns  have  been  shared  by  a 
number of States in Africa and by the African Union, 
and  we  share  those  concerns.  It  is  symbolic  that  they 
recently gave rise to the first official withdrawal of a 
State from the Rome Statute of the ICC.
We agree with the assessments voiced here, both in 
the past and throughout this year, regarding the double 
standards,  selectivity  and  politicization  that  the  ICC 
allows in its work. It is not surprising that, in the light 
of this nature of the Court’s work, the Ukrainian and 
Georgian delegations decided to abuse the rostrum of 
the General Assembly to voice their usual allegations. 
The  position  of  Russia  with  respect  to  the  work  of 
the ICC, specifically on Ukraine and Georgia, is well 
known, and I will not repeat it.
the  Court 
The  reputation  of 
is  undoubtedly 
deteriorating. We have drawn attention to this month’s 
information  in  the  media  about  abuses  that  were 
allowed  by  current  and  former  staff  members  of  the 
Prosecutor’s Office, including the former Prosecutor of 
the ICC during the investigation of the Libyan issue. We 
would further like to point out the inadequate reaction 
of the Court on that issue.
In conclusion, there are many problems facing the 
Court; we will not list all of them. However, the main 
points are as follows: there is not even a single situation 
that  we  can  recall  where  the  ICC  truly  facilitated 
stabilization, the curbing of violence or improvement of 
the situation for the population. Particularly indicative 
22/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
in  that  regard  are  the  many  years  of  work  on  cases 
referred to the Court by the Security Council.
In the light of what I have said here, our delegation 
could not support the technical update of the text and 
dissociates itself from the consensus on resolution 72/3.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker  in  explanation  of  position  following  the 
adoption of resolution 72/3.
Before  giving  the  floor  to  speakers  in  exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply,  may  I  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first statement and to five minutes 
for the second, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr. Ahmed (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): We would 
like to make this statement in exercise of our right of 
reply to the statement of the representative of Estonia, 
which  was  audacious  enough  to  mention  the  Sudan 
and  His  Excellency  President  Al-Bashir.  It  is  rather 
shocking to consider that the representative of Estonia 
works  in  diplomacy,  as  he  mentioned  our  President’s 
name without giving his title. I would remind him that 
the  Sudan  was  one  of  the  first  sub-Saharan  States  to 
gain independence in Africa.
With  regard 
to 
the  relationship  between 
the 
International Criminal Court and the Security Council, 
it  is  just  political  and  has  nothing  to  do  with  justice. 
It  is  an  example  of  the  use  of  selectivity  and  double 
standards,  which  implies  an  effort  to  undermine  the 
political independence and integrity of the Sudan. I am 
sure that the representative of Estonia is aware of this 
and of all the different related aspects.
The  representative  of  Estonia’s  statement  was 
unacceptable  and  runs  counter  to  diplomatic  custom. 
In  his  statement,  he  attacked  the  Sudan,  its  people, 
its  Government  and  its  President.  Estonia  appears  to 
be  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  and  is  taking  the  place  of  some  administrator 
of  international  justice.  I  think  that  Estonia  should 
really focus on its own domestic issues without giving 
sermons to anyone else. Indeed, it is only Africa that 
is  the  subject  of  these  sermons.  When  we  look  at  the 
situation  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  it  is  silence  that 
prevails,  as  if  those  countries  are  beyond  criticism 
when it comes to justice.
We  are  not  a  State  party  to  the  ICC.  We  have  no 
obligation  whatsoever  to  the  Court,  in  line  with  the 
Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties.  We  are 
concerned  about  the  fight  against  impunity.  We  want 
to  achieve  justice  as  a  noble  objective,  but  without 
politicization,  selectivity  or  subordination  to  other 
Powers.  My  country  therefore  expresses  its  rejection 
and  condemnation  of  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative of Estonia.
Mr.  Maung  (Myanmar):  My  delegation  takes  the 
floor in exercise of the right of reply to respond to the 
statement made by the representative of Bangladesh.
The  Government  of  Myanmar 
is  committed 
to  a  sustainable  solution  for  peace,  stability  and 
development  for  all  communities  within  Rakhine 
state.  The  Government  of  Myanmar  is  determined  to 
implement the commitments we made to working until 
progress and success have been achieved. Rather than 
rebutting criticism and allegations with words, we will 
show the world our true intentions by our actions and 
deeds. Since 25 August, when the terrorist attack took 
place in northern Rakhine state, we have many positive 
developments there. Some of the more significant ones 
are the following.
The Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, led by 
former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan, 
delivered its final report on 24 August. The Government 
has  given  the  report  its  sincere  consideration  with  a 
view  to  carrying  out  the  recommendations  as  to  the 
situation on the ground to the fullest extent and within 
the shortest time frame possible. A Ministry of Labour 
committee  has  been  established  to  ensure  that  the 
recommendations  are  implemented  expeditiously,  and 
an  advisory  group,  including  three  eminent  figures 
from  different  regions  of  the  world,  will  also  soon 
be established.
With regard to the current humanitarian situation 
in  Rakhine  state,  the  Government  has  identified 
three  main  tasks  to  be  undertaken  promptly,  namely, 
repatriation  and 
the  provision  of  humanitarian 
assistance to returnees, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of  all  displaced  communities,  and  the  establishment 
of  sustainable  peace,  stability  and  development  in 
Rakhine  state.  To  implement  the  tasks,  the  Office  of 
the  Union  Enterprise  for  Humanitarian  Assistance, 
Resettlement  and  Development 
in  Rakhine  was 
launched  on  15  October.  This  is  a  partnership  among 
the  Government, 
the  private  sector, 
local  non-governmental  organizations  and  civil-
society  organizations,  development  partners,  United 
the  people, 
17-35526
23/25
A/72/PV.37 
30/10/2017
Nations  agencies  and  international  non-governmental 
organizations.  On  17  October,  the  Committee  for  the 
Union Enterprise, chaired by the State Counsellor, was 
established  in  order  to  oversee  the  operation  of  the 
Enterprise. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
Coordinating  Centre  for  Humanitarian  Assistance 
on  Disaster  Management  is  now  working  with  the 
Government  of  Myanmar  to  deliver  humanitarian 
assistance to all displaced persons.
Myanmar is collaborating with donor countries of 
the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement 
to provide assistance expeditiously and in accordance 
with humanitarian principles. We continue to maintain 
our  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  The  Under-
Secretary-General  for  Political  Affairs,  Mr.  Jeffrey 
Feltman,  recently  visited  Myanmar  and  met  with  the 
leadership of the country. He also had the opportunity 
to see first-hand the situation on the ground in Rakhine 
state. We are also harvesting the paddy fields that were 
abandoned  by  those  taking  refuge  in  Bangladesh.  We 
have  asked  the  World  Food  Programme  and  the  Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to 
assist  in  harvesting,  drying  and  providing  storage  for 
the  paddy  fields.  The  fields  will  be  kept  for  refugees 
in  their  names  so  that  they  can  claim  them  upon 
their return.
The  Myanmar  and  Bangladesh  authorities  are 
working on the voluntary, safe and dignified return of 
displaced persons on the basis of the 1993 agreement 
between the two countries. A delegation headed by the 
Minister for Home Affairs of Bangladesh was recently 
in Myanmar for discussions on the issue of repatriation 
and border security cooperation. During this visit, two 
memorandums  of  understanding  on  the  establishment 
of  border  liaison  posts  and  security,  cooperation  and 
dialogue  were  signed.  Other  bilateral  engagements 
are ongoing.
We have beenquite surprised to witness Bangladesh’s 
approach to the issue within United Nations forum. This 
leads me, therefore, to question whether the Bangladesh 
delegation  has  the  genuine  desire  to  solve  the  issue 
rather  than  to  enflame  it.  The  challenges  we  face  in 
finding a sustainable solution on the issue of Rakhine 
state  cannot  be  overcome  overnight.  The  sincere  and 
genuine cooperation of the international community is 
crucial.  No  one  can  fully  understand  the  situation  of 
our country the way we do, and no one desires peace 
and development for our country more than we do. We 
wish for all interested parties to be part of the solution, 
not part of the problem.
Mr.  Al  Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  my  delegation  disassociates 
itself  from  any  consensus  regarding  resolution  72/3, 
entitled “Report of the International Criminal Court”.
I  recall  that  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  was  one 
of  the  first  countries  to  actively  contribute  to  the 
negotiations  on  the  Rome  Statute,  establishing  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  and  one  of  its 
first signatories. However, in the face of the outcomes 
of  the  Court’s  selective  implementation  of  the  notion 
of  justice,  my  country,  Syria,  decided  to  disassociate 
itself  from  that  body,  which  has  become  a  deficient 
and  biased  institution  that  undermines  the  noble 
notion  of  justice  and  serves  the  whims  and  interests 
of  certain  countries,  ultimately  evolving  into  a  tool 
to undermine international relations, the principles of 
international law and the purposes of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
International, 
the  so-called 
In  their  statements  today,  some  delegations  have 
touched  on  the  situation  in  my  country  and  raised 
issues that are irrelevant to the item under discussion 
today. They have called for so-called justice and an end 
to impunity in Syria through referral of the situation in 
Syria to the ICC and by asking the State to cooperate 
with 
Impartial  and 
Independent Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation 
and  Prosecution  of  Those  Responsible  for  the  Most 
Serious  Crimes  under  International  Law  Committed 
in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  since  March  2011.  The 
statements I allude to — I refer in particular to those 
made by the representatives of Denmark and the United 
States — ignored the substantive criticism that we have 
heard in the past and again today from some countries 
about  the  ICC  and  its  deliberately  deficient  mandate, 
which is limited to certain countries and issues. Today, 
those  countries  ignored  the  specific  reasons  that 
compelled  some  States  to  withdraw  from  the  Rome 
Statute and the Court.
  The  political  hypocrisy  that  we  continue  to  see 
today is manifested in statements of some Governments 
concerning  international  justice  and  calling  for  the 
implementation  of  a  virtual  ICC  mandate  on  the 
situation in Syria, whereas those same countries have 
signed  bilateral  agreements  with  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  of  America  in  order  to  give  United 
States  soldiers  immunity  from  prosecution  before  the 
24/25 
17-35526
30/10/2017 
A/72/PV.37
ICC.  As  members  are  aware,  ever  since  the  signing 
of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  establishment  of  the 
Court,  the  United  States  has  made  diplomatic  efforts 
to reach bilateral agreements with other States, giving 
immunity  to  United  States  soldiers.  This  has  resulted 
in  the  achievement  of  many  bilateral  agreements  to 
grant such immunity to United States soldiers. We are 
sorry to hear representatives in many forums, including 
the Assembly today, speak of referring the situation in 
Syria to the ICC, while their own countries have signed 
bilateral  agreements  with  the  United  States  to  grant 
immunity  to  the  soldiers  of  the  United  States  army 
under the mandate of the Court.
As for the International, Impartial and Independent 
Mechanism,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  and  other 
Member States refuse to recognize the Mechanism or 
any mandate thereof, as it only reflects the distortion 
of the notion of universal jurisdiction and abuses that 
jurisdiction  in  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  a  grave 
violation of the provisions of Articles 2 and 12 of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  provisions  of 
others that specify the powers of the General Assembly.
I  wish  to  cite  here  an  example  of  a  grave  legal 
breach  in  the  establishment  of  the  Mechanism,  which 
was granted powers and authorities that belong mainly 
to the national prosecutory and judicial bodies of each 
country. The Charter of the United Nations grants the 
General  Assembly  no  power  or  authority  related  to 
prosecution  or  criminal  investigations.  Consequently, 
the  General  Assembly  does  not  have  the  mandate  to 
establish a body that enjoys powers and authorities that 
the General Assembly itself does not enjoy, let alone to 
establish such a Mechanism. Such authority is enjoyed 
exclusively by the Security Council.
Once again, I call on all members of the Assembly 
the 
to  read  document  A/71/799,  which  contains 
text  of  a  letter  from  the  Chargé  d’affaires  a.i.  of  the 
Permanent  Mission  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  to 
the  Secretary-General,  highlighting  the  grave  legal 
breaches  in  resolution  71/248,  which  established  the 
illegal  Mechanism.  Syria  calls  on  Member  States  to 
disassociate  themselves  from  the  Mechanism  and  to 
refrain from providing it with support or finance, given 
the fact that 80 per cent of its funding is provided by 
the Government of a State that does not recognize the 
United Nations designation of the Al-Nusra Front as a 
terrorist body and that continues to finance and arm the 
Al-Nusra Front. Therefore, a mechanism that is being 
funded  by  the  same  source  that  finances  terrorism 
cannot be international, impartial or independent. It is 
a distortion of the notion of universal jurisdiction.
It  is  no  longer  acceptable  for  the  Governments 
of  certain  States  to  use  justice  —  one  of  the  noble 
purposes of humankind — as a tool to interfere with the 
internal affairs of other States. It is no longer acceptable 
for  justice  to  be  a  mere  tool  for  the  most  powerful 
to  exercise  their  power  over  the  weak.  We  therefore 
call  on  the  Governments  that  frequently  speak  about 
impunity to back up their words with actions and to hold 
their  country’s  officials  accountable  for  sponsoring, 
facilitating and financing the transfer of thousands of 
foreign terrorist fighters to my country, Syria. Everyone 
believes, perhaps only implicitly, that the influx of tens 
of  thousands  of  those  foreign  terrorist  fighters  into 
Syria and Iraq was the result not of individual efforts, 
but rather of a well-organized scheme that operated for 
years.  The  Governments  and  intelligence  services  of 
many countries are implicated therein.
We  also  call  on  the  Governments  that  speak  out 
against  impunity  to  hold  to  account  the  forces  of  the 
international  coalition  in  Syria,  led  by  the  United 
States,  which  have  used  internationally  prohibited 
weapons in Syria, including white phosphorus, killing 
thousands  of  civilians.  They  have  bombed  schools,
bridges, infrastructure, power plants and water plants, 
and  destroyed  the  city  of  Raqqa.  With  the  help  of 
supporting militia, they levelled the city and declared 
victory  over  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham 
(ISIS).  The  result  was  that  the  international  coalition 
forces  and  their  supporting  militia  struck  a  deal  with 
ISIS  whereby  its  fighters  were  moved  from  Raqqa  to 
Deir  ez-Zor  in  order  to  obstruct  the  operations  of  the 
Syrian Arab Army and its allies.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 76?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.
17-35526
25/25
