United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
12th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 September 2017, 12.10 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Rabary-Njaka 
(Madagascar), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 12.10 p.m.
Address by Mr. Danny Faure, President of the 
Republic of Seychelles
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Seychelles.
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Seychelles,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Danny Faure, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Seychelles,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Faure:  I  would  like  to  join  those  who 
have spoken before me in congratulating His Excellency 
Mr  Miroslav  Lajčák  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I 
would  also  like  to  thank  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Peter Thomson for making the small island developing 
States  and  the  rest  of  the  international  community 
proud  through  his  strong  leadership  of  the  seventy-
first session.
May  I  start  by  saying  that  the  thoughts  of  the 
Government and the people of Seychelles go out to the 
millions  of  people  in  South  Asia,  Africa,  the  United 
States  and  Mexico,  as  well  as  our  island  brothers 
and  sisters  in  the  Caribbean,  who  have  suffered 
unimaginable  losses  from  floods,  hurricanes  and 
other forms of extreme weather these past months.We 
urge the international community to not only respond 
generously to those countries’ calls for support, but also 
to take the need to upscale the urgent action required 
far  more  seriously  in  order  to  prevent,  prepare  for, 
adapt to and recover from such increasingly destructive 
climate-related disasters.
Events  around  the  world  today  sadly  show  that 
the  theme  of  this  year’s  general  debate,  “Focusing 
on people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all 
on  a  sustainable  planet”,  cannot  be  achieved  without 
effective implementation of the principles of democracy 
and  a  concerted  demonstration  of  will.  That  calls  for 
good  governance,  transparency  and  accountability, 
which  serve  as  the  foundation  for  the  prosperity  and 
security of all nations. Indeed, they put the rights and 
aspirations of the people at the centre of development, 
where prosperity is shared by all. We must create the 
necessary space in society for diverging views and ideas 
to  flourish  and  be  respected.  Doing  so  helps  promote 
unity, tolerance and respect in the population.
Seychelles  is,  for  the  first  time  in  its  history, 
experiencing a system of political cohabitation where I, 
as President and head of the executive arm, am working 
with a legislature dominated by the opposition. When I 
first addressed our legislature at the National Assembly 
almost a year ago last October, I gave my word that we 
would work together to deliver a better future for our 
people. Our cohabitation is working well.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29585 (E)
*1729585*
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
There is a new working environment in which we 
have dialogue and where we consult. Most importantly, 
it is an environment based on mutual respect. We are 
reshaping  our  Government  to  make  it  more  inclusive. 
We are empowering our citizens, especially our youth, 
by  giving  them  equal  opportunities  to  play  important 
roles in the development of our country and the growth 
of  our  economy.  In  that  context,  we  are  improving 
the environment for free media to play a vital role in 
nation-building efforts.
Together  with  the  National  Assembly  we  are 
amending legislation relating to institutions, authorities 
and  agencies  so  as  to  ensure  that  they  reflect  the 
new  principles  of  good  governance.  With  greater 
transparency,  good  governance  and  accountability, 
the  independence  of  institutions  and  authorities  will 
continue to increase. They are the bedrock of our society.
We are writing a new chapter in Seychelles, where 
we work together to overcome our challenges and show 
respect for all opinions in the interest of a Seychelles 
that unites all of us despite our differences. Openness 
and a policy of discourse are at the core of my nation’s 
willingness  to  secure  a  bold  future  for  our  people.  I 
believe that small island developing States such as mine 
can  serve  as  the  moral  barometers  for  what  is  right. 
We  do  not  shy  from  accepting  and  learning  from  the 
experiences of others but, in that regard, we also have 
valuable lessons to share with others. The path that we 
are charting in our country can serve as an example to 
all for the sake of tolerance and a global lasting peace.
(spoke in French)
That has been our experience in Seychelles. But as 
we  look  around  us,  what  do  we  see?  We  see  growing 
instability  on  a  national  and  regional  scale.  That  is  a 
hindrance to peace and to a decent and sustainable life 
for all of our peoples. We believe that such factors lie at 
the heart of the global refugee crisis. That is a problem 
that could worsen owing to the increasing movements 
of populations as a result of climate change.
A  globalized  world  economy  requires  us  to  act 
as  organized  regions  in  order  to  give  ourselves  the 
best  possible  chance  of  transforming  our  hopes  into 
tangible  improvements  in  the  quality  of  life  for  our 
peoples by strengthening the values of democracy and 
good governance.
That also applies to this institution — the United 
Nations. Indeed, after a quarter of a century of reforms 
and counter-reforms of the Security Council, it is high 
time to harken to the deafening call of more than 160 
States Members of the United Nations for true and just 
reforms.  That  would  be  a  way  for  us  to  react  to  the 
accusations  that  the  United  Nations  is  simply  a  room 
in which to hold rambling discussions. We would also 
have an opportunity to practice what we preach.
(spoke in English)
For  there  to  be  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all 
on  a  sustainable  planet,  it  is  not  enough  just  to 
throw  more  resources  —  financial,  human  and 
others  —  into  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, the Sustainable Development 
Goals and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. All 
of those processes should be democratically governed, 
underpinned  by 
transparency  and  accountability 
throughout and in harmony with and with respect for 
the natural environment in which we live.
In  Seychelles,  the  private  sector,  civil  society, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  parliamentarians 
have joined with the public sector in a national effort 
to  integrate  the  2030  Agenda  and  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  into  our  country’s  budget  and 
development  plans.  Together  we  are  drafting  a  new 
national development strategy and a more sustainable 
national  development  plan  for  Seychelles  over  the 
next  15  years  called  Vision  2032.  That  exercise  also 
includes the integration of Agenda 2063, adopted by the 
African Union, and the Small Island Developing States 
Accelerated Modalities of Action.
The same inclusive approach applies to stepping up 
our implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change in the light of recent developments. According 
to the latest science, all stakeholders need to be involved 
if the international community is to drastically upscale 
our collective climate action so as to achieve our targets. 
There is something that I said at the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Marrakech  in  November  2016 
that is even more pertinent today, as we head towards 
the  next  Conference  of  the  Parties,  led  by  our  fellow 
small  island  developing  State  of  Fiji  and  supported 
by Germany. Referring to the Paris Agreement, I said,
“For  the  very  first  time  in  history,  a  global 
climate-change  deal,  giving  renewed  hope  to  the 
world,  has  been  reached.  We  find  ourselves  at 
a  crossroads  and  cannot  afford  to  renege  on  our 
2/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
exclusive 
collective commitment to travel the moral path for 
the sake of humanity.”
From  small  islands  come  big  ideas.  Last  year 
Seychelles  reached  an  agreement  with  the  Paris  Club 
and  others  on  a  first-of-its-kind  $21  million  debt-
for-adaptation  swap  to  protect  30  per  cent  of  our 
1.37-million-square-kilometre 
economic 
zone, partly as an ecosystem-based adaptation to climate 
change. Also, by the end of this year, we aim to launch 
the world’s first blue bonds to raise another $15 million 
for sustainable fishing practices in our waters. Both of 
those measures seek to establish innovative sources of 
financing to implement Sustainable Development Goal 
14,  on  oceans  and  seas,  and  other  interlinked  SDGs 
as  part  of  developing  the  Seychelles’  blue  economy. 
We thank our many partners at home and abroad who 
have  helped  us  on  this  bold  and  exciting  new  path  to 
sustainable  development  and  resilience  to  climate 
change and who continue to be actively involved.
The President took the Chair.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate Fiji and 
Sweden for the great success of the Ocean Conference 
in  June  and  its  Call  for  Action.  As  President  of  a 
large-ocean developing State, I would like to reiterate 
Seychelles’  commitment  to  continuing  to  play  a 
pioneering  role  in  the  search  for  innovative  ways  to 
respond to the Call for Action and implement SDG 14 
as an integral part of all the SDGs and the 2030 Agenda.
On that positive note, I wish all the peoples of the 
world a happy International Peace Day.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Seychelles for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Dany  Faure,  President  of 
the  Republic 
of  Seychelles,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Masisi, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Botswana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Botswana.
Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Masisi, Vice-President of the 
Republic of Botswana, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Masisi, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Masisi  (Botswana):  I  feel  deeply  honoured 
and privileged to deliver this statement on behalf of the 
President of the Republic of Botswana, His Excellency 
Lieutenant General Seretse Khama Ian Khama.
On behalf of my delegation, I wish to join previous 
speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as 
President of the General Assembly at its seventy-second 
session. I assure you of the full support and cooperation 
of my delegation in the discharge of your mandate. In 
the same vein, please allow me to pay tribute to your 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Peter Thomson, for his 
stewardship of the Assembly at its seventy-first session.
I would also take this opportunity to extend a warm 
welcome to our new Secretary-General, His Excellency 
Mr. António Guterres, and his Deputy and wish them an 
enjoyable and successful tenure at the helm of our world 
body. We also thank our former Secretary-General, His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his leadership and the 
valuable  contribution  he  made  towards  advancing  the 
mandate of the Organization over the past decade.
We  are  gathered  here  at  the  United  Nations 
because  we  share  a  common  destiny.  Despite  its 
imperfections,  the  United  Nations  remains  the  only 
universal organization that has the moral authority and 
legitimacy to seek global solutions to the challenges we 
face. Botswana is of the firm conviction that as Member 
States, we collectively hold the will and the power to 
change  the  world  for  the  better  and  for  the  benefit  of 
both present and future generations.
Botswana  welcomes  the  theme  of  this  session, 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”. We strongly feel that 
that  theme  is  pertinent  because  it  reinforces  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which the global 
community adopted on 25 September 2015 as a “plan 
of action for people, planet and prosperity” or a charter 
for “people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership” 
in  the  twenty-first  century  (resolution  70/1).  That 
theme appropriately draws our attention to four of the 
five Ps of the 2030 Agenda: people, planet, prosperity, 
peace and partnership. It recognizes the importance of 
17-29585
3/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
focusing on people and improving their lives, as they 
are  both  the  main  beneficiaries  of  development  and 
its greatest resource, as we work to achieve peace and 
development  on  a  sustainable  and  resilient  basis.  The 
theme  thus  recognizes  the  nexus  between  peace  and 
security, sustainable development and climate change.
In that regard, the 2030 Agenda notes that there can 
be  no  sustainable  development  without  peace  and  no 
peace without sustainable development. It is therefore 
imperative that we give priority to the implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate 
Change  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable  development 
and address climate change.
With  regard  to  people,  I  am  pleased  to  state  that 
the  Government  of  Botswana  embarked  on  a  series 
of  multi-stakeholder  consultations 
involving  both 
the  public  and  the  private  sectors,  civil  society,  local 
authorities,  development  partners  and  academia  in 
the formulation of our National Development Plan 11, 
which runs from 2017 to 2023, and in the formulation 
of  our  current  Vision  2036,  which  runs  from  2017  to 
2036. The Plan and the Vision are both aligned to the 
2030 Agenda and the African Union Agenda 2063. We 
purposefully undertook extensive consultations so as to 
ensure that our national priorities reflect our people’s 
needs and aspirations. We hold the view that our people 
have a right to sustainable development and improved 
quality  of  life.  We  must,  therefore,  pursue  those  twin 
objectives as a moral and political imperative.
It  is  important  to  recall  that  when  we  adopted 
Agenda  2030  two  years  ago,  we  acknowledged  that 
every  goal,  every  target  and  every  indicator  in  the 
Agenda  represents  a  step  towards  a  better  world.  We 
recognized  the  need  for  each  country,  based  on  its 
needs  and  circumstances,  to  formulate  a  unique  set 
of  actions  to  achieve  the  universal  goals  that  we  set 
for  ourselves.  We  also  recognized  that  innovation, 
science and technology will be critical catalysts in the 
successful implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
In  line  with  the  theme  of  the  seventy-second 
session,  our  two  national  development  frameworks 
place heavy emphasis on improving the quality of life 
of all people in Botswana through the acceleration of 
socioeconomic development and the provision of better 
education,  health  care  and  housing,  and  by  tackling 
extreme poverty, income inequality, gender inequality 
and  unemployment,  especially  among  young  people 
and  women.  Driven  by  our  strong  desire  to  build  an 
inclusive,  peaceful  and  prosperous  society  based  on 
the  respect  for  democracy,  human  rights  and  the  rule 
of  law,  we  accordingly  adjusted  our  empowerment 
programmes  in  order  to  ensure  that  they  cater  to  all 
vulnerable  and  disadvantaged  groups  in  our  society, 
including women and girls, young people, the elderly, 
people with disabilities, and children.
To  that  end,  the  top  priorities  of  our  National 
Development Plan 11 are human-capital development, 
social  development,  the  development  of  diversified 
sources  of  economic  growth,  the  sustainable  use 
of  natural  resources, 
the  consolidation  of  good 
governance,  the  strengthening  of  national  security 
and the implementation of an effective monitoring and 
evaluation system.
In  order  to  ensure  that  all  our  people  live  in 
dignity,  the  Government  of  Botswana  took  a  bold 
policy decision to shift from poverty reduction to the 
eradication  of  extreme  poverty,  which  resulted  in  a 
marked  reduction  in  the  proportion  of  the  population 
living  in  abject  poverty  or  below  $1.25  per  day,  from 
24.5 per cent in 2002-2003 to 6.4 per cent in 2009-2010. 
That is a notable achievement considering the fact that 
in 1985-1986, 59 per cent of the population was living 
in poverty.
We  identified  the  sustainable  use  of  natural 
resources as one of the main priorities of our national 
development  agenda  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  natural 
wealth  of  our  country  benefits  both  present  and 
future  generations.  To  address  youth  unemployment, 
the  Government 
introduced  youth-empowerment 
programmes,  such  as  the  Youth  Development  Fund, 
the  National  Service  Programme  and  the  Internship 
Programme. For the past two decades, more than 25 per 
cent of the Government’s total annual budget has been 
invested in education and skills development.
In  addition,  we  have  implemented  a  number 
of  flagship  programmes,  the  centrepiece  of  which 
is  the  Economic  Stimulus  Programme,  which  was 
introduced  to  stimulate  the  economy  and  address  the 
infrastructure deficit. We are also proud that Botswana 
was among the countries that shared their 2030 Agenda 
implementation  experience  under  the  auspices  of  the 
recently held High-level Political Forum and Voluntary 
National Review exercises.
On  climate  change,  Botswana  fully  supports  the 
observation made in the 2030 Agenda that
4/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
“[c]limate change is one of the greatest challenges 
of  our  time  and  its  adverse  impacts  undermine 
the  ability  of  all  countries  to  achieve  sustainable 
development” (resolution 70/1, para. 140).
In that regard, we welcome the entry into force of the 
2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change and reaffirm 
our commitment to that agreement. Botswana is pleased 
to be among the countries that signed and ratified the 
Agreement before the threshold for ratifications for its 
entry into force was reached. We appeal to all countries 
to  remain  steadfast  in  their  defence  and  protection  of 
the integrity of the Paris Agreement.
We reiterate our appeal to the Government of the 
United States of America to reconsider its decision to 
withdraw from that landmark agreement, which marks 
a  universal  effort  by  the  international  community 
to  tackle  the  challenges  of  climate  change.  As  those 
present  are  aware,  the  challenge  of  climate  change 
requires  collective  action,  as  no  single  country  can 
successfully address the challenge on its own. It is as if 
the recent hurricanes and their disastrous effects were 
meant  to  underscore  to  the  American  Administration 
that climate change is real. If there is anything positive 
that we have learned from those hurricanes, it is that it 
has been able to bring people in the affected states and 
wider America together — be they young or old, black, 
Hispanic or white or of whatever religious persuasion.
We  also  welcome  the  recent  convening  by  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  first  ever 
Ocean Conference in New York, pursuant to Sustainable 
Development  Goal  14.  Even  though  Botswana  is  a 
landlocked  country,  we  are  impacted  in  one  way  or 
the  other  by  the  ocean  environment.  We  also  have  a 
strategic interest in benefiting from marine resources. 
It is for that reason that we actively participated in the 
negotiations that led to the adoption of the Convention 
on the Law of the Sea of 1982, to which we subsequently 
became a State party.
I  am  delighted  to  announce  that  Botswana  has 
responded  positively  to  international  humanitarian 
appeals,  which  have  been  made  from  time  to  time 
in  response  to  humanitarian  calamities  that  have 
afflicted  a  number  of  countries, 
the 
extremely  devastating  famine  in  Somalia.  Consistent 
with  our  caring  and  compassionate  nature,  we  will 
continue to do everything we can, within the limit of 
our  meagre  resources,  to  extend  assistance  to  fellow 
including 
members of the human family who are in dire need of 
humanitarian relief.
On  international  peace  and  security,  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  states  that  the  Organization 
was created “to save succeeding generations from the 
scourge of war”, and yet peace continues to elude us, 
especially in some parts of Africa, as well as in other 
parts  of  the  world.  There  are  continuing  reports  of 
raging conflicts, gross human rights violations, extra-
judicial killings, sexual violence and arbitrary arrests 
and detentions.
The  situation  in  South  Sudan,  in  particular, 
continues to be a cause for grave concern. The country 
is virtually on a precipice. The people of that country 
have yet to enjoy the peace that the Agreement on the 
Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan of August 2015 was widely expected to deliver. 
We therefore appeal to the Intergovernmental Authority 
on  Development  countries,  as  the  main  guarantors  of 
the  Agreement,  to  constructively  engage  the  leaders 
and political stakeholders in South Sudan, with a view 
to  getting  them  to  unconditionally  commit  to  the  full 
and effective implementation of the Agreement.
On Syria, the political, security and humanitarian 
situation  there  remains  catastrophic.  Botswana  is  on 
record as having consistently expressed disappointment 
at the Security Council’s failure to take decisive action 
on the situation in Syria. That failure is due to the fact 
that  some  permanent  members  of  the  Council  have, 
from time to time, vetoed resolutions that were aimed 
at  addressing  the  political  and  humanitarian  crisis  in 
the country.
In  view  of  that  unfortunate  scenario,  Botswana 
believes  that  the  international  community  should 
always  resort  to  using  the  moral  power  and  authority 
of the General Assembly whenever there is paralysis in 
the Security Council. We also fully support the referral 
of the situation in Syria to the International Criminal 
Court,  in  order  for  those  responsible  for  committing 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  to  be  held 
accountable for their actions.
Botswana is deeply concerned about the unrelenting 
and  blatant  contravention  of  international  law  and 
United Nations resolutions by North Korea through its 
continued testing of ballistic missiles. Those despicable 
acts  by  North  Korea  pose  a  threat,  not  only  to  the 
Korean  peninsula,  but  throughout  the  Pacific  region 
and the world at large. It is obvious to us, as it should 
17-29585
5/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
be to everyone else, that North Korea is being assisted 
by  others  in  its  development  of  missiles  and  nuclear 
technology. They are, therefore, as much to blame for 
those missile and nuclear tests as North Korea itself is.
We therefore appeal to the international community 
to work in unison and take prompt and decisive action 
that will force North Korea to adhere to the purposes 
and principles of the United Nations Charter. Inaction 
is not an option in the face of such adversity. Regime 
change must be brought about in order to remove, once 
and for all, the everlasting threat to peace in that region 
and  give  the  North  Korean  people  hope  for  a  life  of 
freedom and prosperity.
it 
right 
inalienable 
is  reprehensible 
On  Western  Sahara, 
that 
that  territory  remains  the  only  non-self-governing 
territory  on  the  African  continent.  We  therefore 
reiterate  our  support  for  and  solidarity  with  the 
people  of  Western  Sahara  in  the  pursuit  of  their 
just  and 
to  self-determination. 
We  strongly  feel  that  it  is  high  time  that  they  be 
allowed to exercise that right through an independent 
and impartial vote under the supervision of the United 
Nations.  The  Sahrawi  have  waited  long  enough  for 
that  to  happen.  We  similarly  support  the  people  of 
Palestine  in  their  legitimate  struggle  for  sovereignty 
and independent statehood. As a gesture of our support 
and  solidarity,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Botswana 
established  diplomatic  relations  with  the  State  of 
Palestine on 8 March.
Botswana  strongly  condemns  terrorism,  violent 
extremism and racial intolerance in all their forms and 
manifestations.  In  that  regard,  it  is  deeply  regrettable 
that  we  have  recently  witnessed  a  spate  of  terrorist 
attacks  on  innocent  people  and  Governments  around 
the  world.  I  wish  to  state  that  we  stand  firmly  in 
solidarity with the Governments and the peoples of the 
countries concerned and extend our deepest sympathy 
to them. We need to be constantly mindful of the fact 
that  no  single  country  is  immune  to  terrorist  attacks. 
Those  attacks  are  a  stark  reminder  of  the  ferocious 
nature of terrorism. The international community must, 
therefore, urgently take concerted action to resolutely 
fight that scourge.
fully 
supports 
Botswana 
international 
community’s  efforts  towards  nuclear  disarmament. 
We  also  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  international 
instruments  that  ban  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
such  as  the  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the 
the 
Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use  of 
Chemical  Weapons  and 
the  Biological  Weapons 
Convention.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  recent 
adoption by the General Assembly of a legally binding 
treaty  to  prohibit  the  production  of  nuclear  weapons. 
We are fully convinced that only a nuclear-free world 
will guarantee a safer future for our populations.
Botswana  greatly  values  the  opportunity  it  was 
given to contribute to the promotion and protection of 
human  rights  through  its  membership  in  the  Human 
Rights  Council  for  two  consecutive  terms.  With  the 
imminent end of our tenure in the Council in December, I 
wish to reaffirm that we will continue to work earnestly 
with the international community to advance the global 
human rights agenda and so that all the people of the 
world can live in democracies where human rights and 
the  rule  of  law  are  upheld.  Our  advocacy  on  human 
rights  is  premised  on  the  firm  belief  that  society’s 
aspirations  for  sustainable  development  will  remain 
a  mirage  unless  we  redouble  our  collective  efforts 
towards equality and human dignity.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  urge  everyone  to 
maintain  the  momentum  on  the  implementation  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Let us 
summon  our  collective  wisdom  and  strength,  coupled 
with our singularity of purpose, to deliver real change 
for the benefit of the peoples we represent. Botswana 
pledges  to  be  an  active  and  reliable  partner  in  the 
common endeavour to create a better and safer world 
of shared prosperity, where no people, no region and no 
country will feel left behind. That is the best legacy we 
can collectively bequeath to posterity.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Botswana for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Masisi,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Botswana,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Andrej 
Plenković, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Croatia
Mr.  Andrey  Plenković,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Andrey Plenković, Prime Minister 
6/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
of the Republic of Croatia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Plenković (Croatia) (spoke in English): Let me 
take this opportunity to offer my sincere condolences 
to  all  those  affected  by  the  destruction  wrought  by 
Hurricanes Irma and Maria and to the people of Mexico, 
who  have  been  hit  by  successive  earthquakes  in  past 
few days.
Twenty-five years ago, my country’s first President, 
Franjo  Tuđman,  addressed  the  General  Assembly  as 
Croatia was being admitted to the United Nations (see 
A/47/PV.7), which brought us back into the fold of free 
nations. At that time, he appealed to the international 
community to help end the aggression against Croatia 
and establish lasting peace. Since then, my country has 
been  rebuilt,  modernized  and  profoundly  transformed 
and has become one of Europe’s top tourist destinations. 
Today  Croatia  is  a  State  member  of  the  European 
Union  and  NATO.  Building  on  its  unique  historical 
circumstances,  we  are  now  actively  participating 
in  peacekeeping  operations  around  the  globe  and 
providing development aid to societies in need.
I  address  the  Assembly  as  the  Prime  Minister  of 
a country that in that relatively short time has served 
on  the  Security  Council,  presided  over  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  and  chaired  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  and  which  is  currently  a  member  of  the 
Human Rights Council.
Today we celebrate the International Day of Peace. I 
would like to reiterate that, as a peace-loving nation — as 
symbolized here at the United Nations by the recently 
restored  Peace  Monument  by  our  great  sculptor, 
Antun Augustinčić — Croatia is a strong advocate of 
a  rules-based  international  order.  At  the  national  and 
global  levels,  we  believe  that  institutions  need  to  be 
more open to the public and genuinely involve people 
in  their  decision-making.  It  is  only  through  an  active 
and informed citizenry that we can make Governments 
accountable and create credible institutions.
institutions  ensure 
Only  well-functioning 
the 
implementation  of  the  rule  of  law.  Such  citizen 
involvement  brings  about  a  welcome  mix  of 
representative 
and  participatory  democracy  by 
bringing forward substantiated arguments and avoiding 
superficial  and  misleading  populism.  Croatia  places 
great emphasis on peace, justice and strong institutions 
as one of the 17 goals to transform our world.
Our own experiences in building State institutions 
were a particular challenge for a country that achieved 
peace  and  re-established  its  territorial  integrity  only 
20  years  ago.  Croatia  is  dedicated  to  assisting  others 
in post-conflict transitions with its own experiences in 
reconciliation and confidence-building.
We  were  a  recipient  of  international  security 
assistance,  including  through  several  United  Nations 
missions.  One  of  the  most  successful  peacekeeping 
missions  to  date  was  the  United  Nations  Transitional 
Administration 
in  Eastern  Slavonia,  Baranja  and 
Western  Sirmium,  which  ended  in  January  1998  with 
the  peaceful  reintegration  of  our  formerly  occupied 
territories. We put at the world’s disposal that unique 
know-how  and  extensive  expertise  as  a  useful 
complementary  contribution 
international 
community’s  efforts  in  similar  situations,  such  as 
with  the  implementation  of  the  Minsk  agreements  in 
Ukraine, where we can draw many parallels.
the 
to 
strong 
Discussing 
international  organizations 
globally  also  means  addressing  the  strength  of  this 
institution  —  the  United  Nations.  As  the  world 
changes,  our  firm  belief  is  that  the  United  Nations 
must  also  keep  up  and  change.  Croatia  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s  drive  to  reform  the  Secretariat, 
especially  in  peacekeeping  and  development.  The 
Secretary-General’s surge in diplomacy is also a much-
needed development.
Security Council reform is central to United Nations 
reform. It is vital that its membership — both permanent 
and non-permanent — be regionally balanced and more 
reflective of the world 70 years into the Organization’s 
life. In particular, we believe that the path to achieving 
that goal would be expedited by enlarging both categories 
of  membership,  including  by  ensuring  that  the  Group 
of Eastern European States is better represented in the 
Security Council’s non-permanent membership.
One of the effects of globalization is that the world 
is  faced  with  an  unprecedented  number  of  people  on 
the  move.  Refugee  crises  and  mass  migration  are  a 
reality. One in 30 people around the world is a migrant. 
Croatia has faced acute refugee and migrant crises in 
the  past.  The  approach  we  took  —  and  will  always 
take  —  was  one  that  put  people  first.  In  the  context 
of the upcoming negotiations on the global compact on 
migration, we advocate an approach to human mobility 
that prioritizes the safety, dignity and the human rights 
17-29585
7/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
and  fundamental  freedoms  of  all  migrants,  no  matter 
where they come from or where they are headed.
as the European Union, NATO and the Organization for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe.
As  with  all  global  challenges,  a  holistic  approach 
is  required  in  that  regard.  We  therefore  need  to  work 
together to fight the root causes of mass migrations — be 
it poverty, failing States and wars or climate change and 
natural disasters — while standing against exploitation 
and  abuse  in  the  context  of  human  trafficking  and 
people  smuggling.  In  the  framework  of  the  European 
Union,  Croatia 
its  partners  on 
stemming the illegal flows of people, especially from 
the  Eastern  Mediterranean-Balkan  route,  while  at  the 
same  time  providing  concrete  support  to  countries  of 
origin to address root causes, in particular through its 
development aid programmes.
is  working  with 
In  addressing  crises  across  the  globe,  our  focus 
should be on early warning, prevention and diplomacy. 
Any post-conflict measure comes too late, especially in 
terms of human life. Conflicts need to be dealt with on a 
case-by-case basis and require tailor-made approaches. 
While a consistent approach to conflicts by the United 
Nations,  and  in  particular  by  the  Security  Council, 
is  essential  for  the  Organization’s  credibility,  copy-
pasted,  one-size-fits-all  approaches  are  not  the  most 
effective way to proceed.
In  understanding  the  situation  and  risks  on  the 
ground, we must in particular draw on the knowledge and 
experience of local populations, neighbouring countries 
and regional organizations. Croatia believes that when 
addressing conflicts and crises — be it in Syria, Libya, 
Iraq,  Yemen  or  anywhere  else  in  the  world  —  it  is 
important  to  have  a  global,  comprehensive  approach 
based  on  solidarity  and  coordinated  international 
effort  under  strong  United  Nations  leadership.  Such 
an  approach  would  include  political,  humanitarian, 
socioeconomic,  stabilization  and  security  elements, 
and  in  which  reconstruction  goes  hand  in  hand  with 
reconciliation and building resilience.
Our  contribution  to  peacekeeping  operations  will 
continue to be an important component of our foreign 
policy,  both  through  direct  participation  and  sharing 
our  experiences  and  expertise  or  know-how.  Croatia 
has  contributed  to  19  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  to  date,  and  we  are  currently  preparing 
our  contribution  to  United  Nations  Interim  Force  in 
Lebanon. Like many other countries, apart from United 
Nations peacekeeping operations, we also participate in 
international operations led by other organizations, such 
Human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  are 
universal  values.  We  should  spare  no  effort  in  their 
promotion  and  protection.  Any  violation  of  human 
rights requires an immediate and appropriate response. 
We advocate tighter links between the Human Rights 
Council and the Security Council. We also acknowledge 
the importance of the principle of the responsibility to 
protect. We take particular pride in the fact that one of 
Croatia’s top diplomats leads the United Nations efforts 
in that regard.
We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism,  as  it  is  evident 
that there is a real need for strategic coordination and 
leadership for our global counter-terrorism efforts. It is 
also necessary that we continue working on preventing 
and countering radicalization and violent extremism.
Croatia  fully  supports 
the  recent  unanimous 
Security Council action on North Korea, whose actions 
represent  a  direct  threat  to  international  peace  and 
security. We appeal to the North Korean authorities to 
discontinue developing and testing nuclear weapons and 
to  fully  meet  their  commitments  under  international 
law,  the  relevant  to  the  Security  Council  resolutions 
and the global non-proliferation regime.
Adherence  to  the  standards,  principles  and  rules 
of international law and their faithful implementation 
provide a firm foundation for lasting peace and stability 
worldwide,  to  which  we  are  deeply  attached.  In  that 
regard, I would particularly like to recall the principles 
of good faith and free consent. We believe that disputes 
should  be  resolved  through  peaceful  means  and  in 
conformity with international law.
It is of the utmost importance that all international 
adjudications  meet  the  highest  legal  standards  and 
fully  respect  their  own  relevant  rules.  Compromising 
the  impartiality  or  independence  of  international 
adjudicators  or  tribunals,  as  was  the  case  in  the 
terminated  arbitration  process  between  Croatia  and 
Slovenia, makes their decisions legally void — and left 
Croatia with no choice other than to withdraw from the 
arbitration process.
We consider that that example of undermining the 
rule of law is a discouragement for States considering 
third-party  dispute  settlement.  At  the  same  time, 
we  want  to  solve  the  open  border  issue  with  our 
8/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
Preserving  peace  and  stability 
neighbouring friend and ally Slovenia through bilateral 
dialogue. In addition, Croatia strongly supports the full 
and unequivocal implementation of all applicable rules 
of international humanitarian and criminal law, as well 
as the full investigation and punishment of all atrocities.
in  South-East 
Europe is obviously of key importance for my country. 
While the world faces many overwhelming challenges, 
we should bear in mind that regional stability in South-
East  Europe  is  still  to  be  entrenched.  By  transferring 
our  knowledge  and  promoting  the  integration  of  the 
countries  of  South-East  Europe  into  the  European 
Union and NATO — if they so wish — Croatia actively 
encourages stability in the region.
We  believe  in  building  strong  societies  in  our 
neighbourhood,  while  aiming  to  shift  away  from 
containing crises towards prevention, political dialogue 
and  active  engagement.  That  is  especially  important 
in  neighbouring  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  where  the 
proper  implementation  of  the  constitutional  equality 
of  its  three  constituent  peoples  —  Bosniaks,  Serbs 
and  Croats  —  is  a  prerequisite  for  ensuring  the  full 
functionality and stability of the State and its European 
integration process, which we wholeheartedly support.
Two  years  ago,  through  the  adoption  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, the international 
community properly recognized the limits to the reach 
of individual Governments. Universal challenges indeed 
demand  our  joint  response.  In  addition,  cooperation 
with  academia,  the  business  community  and  civil 
society is indispensable, but it would be unwise not to 
also tap the ideas and ingenuity of each individual in 
our respective societies, especially of our youth, who, in 
the age of modern technology, are absorbing knowledge 
and acquiring skills in a faster and more open manner. 
It is therefore our global task to adjust our educational 
systems  to  form  future  responsible  citizens,  to  give 
them  job  opportunities  and  fit  the  real  needs  of  our 
labour markets. Coming from Croatia, the homeland of 
the great inventor Nikola Tesla, I cannot but stress how 
vitally important it is that the United Nations facilitate 
a transformation towards the age of the digital economy 
and  narrow  the  digital  divide,  which  could  generate 
new inequalities.
Eradicating 
primary 
development  objective,  since 
is  a  cause  and 
consequence  of  conflict,  instability  and  crises.  But  it 
is only by paying equal attention to transformational, 
our 
poverty 
remains 
it 
cross-cutting  elements  —  such  as  human  rights, 
equality, good governance, the rule of law and inclusive 
societies  —  that  we  will  be  able  to  achieve  true 
sustainable development.
As we are witnessing the daily erosion of climate 
conditions  and  increasing  natural  disasters,  more  is 
required  from  humankind.  That  burden  is  ours  to 
bear.  In  recent  months,  unfortunately,  my  country 
was  not  spared  wildfires  and  floods  either,  which 
reached unprecedented dimensions. Those increasingly 
worrying warnings are a call to action, without delay. 
Croatia  has  already  demonstrated  its  dedication  to 
global efforts to preserve the environment by ratifying 
the  Paris  Agreement.  Two  days  ago  I  expressed  our 
principled support to the new French initiative — the 
Global  Pact  for  the  Environment  —  aimed  at  better 
coordinating global action against climate change.
In 
the  context  of  sustainable  development, 
synergies  among  global,  national  and  local  policies 
need  to  be  strengthened.  We  believe  that  next  year’s 
High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 
will offer a platform to discuss efficient measures for 
a true transformation towards sustainable and resilient 
societies, such as the pivotal goal of making cities and 
human  settlements  inclusive  and  safe,  while  granting 
their inhabitants a proper quality of life.
Croatia’s commitment to multilateralism is unwavering. 
We believe in the United Nations system and our joint 
potential to promote effective, inclusive and sustainable 
global  governance  based  on  the  rules  and  principles 
of international law. It is with that aspiration in mind 
that Croatia joined the United Nations 25 years ago. A 
quarter of a century later, I stand before the Assembly 
with  the  same  noble  ambitions  and  responsibility  for 
respect  of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, 
democracy  and  economic  betterment,  for  solidarity 
with  humans  living  in  precarious  conditions  and  for 
common issues concerning our planet. Only with joint 
vigour to that end can we advance and materialize our 
professed  common  goals  and  values.  It  is  incumbent 
upon us to do so, and the time is now.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  Croatia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Andrej Plenković, Prime Minister of Croatia, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
17-29585
9/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
Address by Mr. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister 
of Canada
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister of Canada.
Mr.  Justin  Trudeau,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted to the rostrum.
The President: I have great pleasure in welcoming 
His Excellency Mr. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of 
Canada, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Trudeau  (Canada):  Before  I  begin,  in  the 
light  of  Tuesday’s  earthquake  in  Mexico,  I  would 
like to offer Canada’s condolences to all families and 
friends in mourning. We wish a speedy recovery for all 
those who were injured and thank all first responders 
for their tireless efforts to help keep people safe. Our 
thoughts  are  also  with  our  friends  in  the  Caribbean, 
who  continue  to  suffer  from  devastating  hurricanes. 
The generosity and resilience that millions have shown 
in the face of those natural disasters is an inspiration to 
the world. Canada stands ready to lend a helping hand 
whenever we can.
It  is  an  honour  to  be  back  here  at  the  General 
Assembly  today  and  to  have  an  opportunity  to  speak 
to  this  year’s  theme,  namely,  “Focusing  on  people: 
Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a 
sustainable planet”.
(spoke in French)
People.  Peace.  A  good  quality  of  life  and  an 
environment  that  we  take  care  of.  Equality  for  all, 
no  matter  where.  That  is  what  counts  in  the  eyes  of 
Canadians.  Throughout  our  history,  we  have  worked 
tirelessly  to  realize  our  ambitions  both  at  home  and 
elsewhere  in  the  world.  Today  I  would  like  to  speak 
about  the  difficult  lessons  that  Canada  has  learned 
along the way. Canada is not a wonderland where the 
difficulties experienced by others do not exist. We face 
the same challenges. Canada is continually evolving.
(spoke in English)
Canada  remains  a  work  in  progress.  I  want  to 
tell  the  Assembly  about  the  Canadian  experience 
because, for all the mistakes we have made, we remain 
hopeful — hopeful that we can do better, and be better, 
and  treat  each  other  with  the  dignity  and  the  respect 
that is the birthright of every human being. I want to 
tell  the  Assembly  our  story  because  I  know  that  the 
challenges we have faced, and continue to face, are not 
unique in the world, nor are the solutions. An approach 
that values human dignity and emphasizes fairness and 
real  opportunity  for  everyone  has  a  home  in  Canada 
and  in  every  country.  It  is  an  approach  that  does  not 
just serve domestic needs but makes the world a better, 
more peaceful, more prosperous place for all.
Mr. Llorenty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
This year Canada celebrates the 150th anniversary 
of  out  Confederation.  But  Canada  is  much  older  than 
that.  It  has  been  home  to  the  descendants  of  settlers 
and immigrants for hundreds of years, and indigenous 
peoples for millenniums. We are a country that is built 
on  different  cultures,  different  religions  and  different 
languages  all  coming  together.  Such  diversity  has 
become our great strength.
But that is not, and has not always been, true for 
everyone who shares our land. Canada is built on the 
ancestral land of indigenous peoples, but, regrettably, 
it  is  also  a  country  that  came  into  being  without  the 
meaningful  participation  of  those  who  were  there 
first.  Even  treaties  that  were  developed  to  provide 
a  foundation  for  proper  relations  have  not  been  fully 
honoured  or  implemented.  For  First  Nations,  Métis 
Nation and Inuit peoples in Canada, those early colonial 
relationships were not about strength through diversity 
or  a  celebration  of  our  differences.  For  indigenous 
peoples in Canada, their experience was mostly one of 
humiliation, neglect and abuse.
(spoke in French)
They  were  victims  of  a  Government  that  did  not 
respect them; their traditions, their assets, their way of 
governing or their laws. It chose to deny and undermine 
their  rights  and  their  dignity.  They  were  victims  of  a 
Government that sought to rewrite their unique history 
and eradicate their languages and cultures by imposing 
colonial traditions and their own way of life. They were 
victims  of  a  Government  that  refused  to  protect  their 
lands  and  waters  and  that  rejected  their  principle  of 
always thinking seven generations ahead.
In  short,  we  rejected  the  very  idea  of  entire 
generations  of  indigenous  peoples  defining  their  own 
lives with the dignity and pride they are due. We have 
deprived  Canada  of  the  significant  contributions  that 
those generations could have made to the progression of 
our great country. The inability of successive Canadian 
Governments  to  respect  the  rights  of  indigenous 
10/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
peoples in Canada causes us great shame. For too many 
indigenous peoples, that lack of respect for their rights 
persists today.
(spoke in English)
Today  there  are  still  children  living  on  reserves 
in  Canada  who  cannot  safely  drink,  bathe  in  or  even 
play in the water that comes out of their taps. There are 
indigenous parents who say goodnight to their children 
and  have  to  cross  their  fingers  in  the  hope  that  their 
kids  will  not  run  away  or  take  their  own  lives  in  the 
night. Young indigenous people in Canada struggle to 
get a good education. Although residential schools are 
thankfully  a  thing  of  the  past,  too  many  indigenous 
youth  are  still  sent  away,  far  from  their  families,  just 
to  get  the  basic  education  most  Canadians  take  for 
granted.  For  far  too  many  indigenous  women,  life  in 
Canada  includes  threats  of  violence  so  frequent  and 
severe that Amnesty International has called it a human 
rights crisis.
That  is  the  legacy  of  colonialism  in  Canada,  of  a 
paternalistic  Indian  Act,  of  the  forced  relocation  of 
Inuit and First Nations communities and a systematic 
denial  of  Métis  rights  and  history,  of  residential 
schools that separated children as young as 5 years old 
from their families, punished them for speaking their 
own  language  and  sought  to  extinguish  indigenous 
cultures entirely.
The good news is that Canadians get it. They see 
the inequities, and they are fed up with the excuses. And 
that impatience gives us a rare and precious opportunity 
to act. We now have before us an opportunity to deliver 
true,  meaningful  and  lasting  reconciliation  between 
Canada  and  First  Nations,  the  Métis  Nation,  and 
Inuit peoples.
(spoke in French)
At a time where we seek to reconcile, we should be 
guided by the basic standards adopted in this Hall 10 
years ago this month. I know that in the past Canada’s 
position  on  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the 
Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples  was  disappointing.  We 
actively campaigned and voted against such rights, only 
to finally accept them reluctantly by saying that it was 
simply  a  document  of  aspirations.  However,  they  are 
not  aspirations.  The  Declaration  is  very  concrete  for 
indigenous peoples and for those who who worked long 
and hard to make that document a reality.
(spoke in English)
to 
in 
flourish 
In  the  words  of  the  Truth  and  Reconciliation 
Commission  of  Canada,  the  Declaration  provides 
the  necessary  principles,  norms  and  standards  for 
reconciliation 
twenty-first-century 
Canada.  That  is  not  an  aspiration,  that  is  a  way 
forward.  Last  year,  at  the  United  Nations  Permanent 
Forum  on  Indigenous  Issues,  Canada’s  then  Minister 
of  Indigenous  and  Northern  Affairs  finally  corrected 
Canada’s  position  on  the  Declaration,  and  announced 
that we are now, without qualification, a full supporter 
of the Declaration.
In  partnership  with  indigenous  peoples,  we  are 
moving ahead with a thorough review of federal laws, 
policies  and  operational  practices  to  get  our  house  in 
order  and  make  sure  that  our  Government  is  meeting 
its  obligations, 
international  obligations 
under the Declaration. We know that the world expects 
Canada to strictly adhere to international human rights 
standards — including the United Nations Declaration 
on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples — and that is what 
we expect of ourselves too.
including 
We are working closely with indigenous peoples in 
Canada  to  better  respond  to  their  priorities,  to  better 
understand how they see and define self-determination 
and to support their work of nation rebuilding. Along 
with 
indigenous  partners,  we  are  co-developing 
programmes  to  ensure  the  preservation,  protection 
and  revitalization  of  Métis,  Inuit  and  First  Nations 
languages.  In  short,  we  have  been  working  hard,  in 
partnership with other orders of Government and with 
indigenous leaders in Canada, to correct past injustices 
and to bring about a better quality of life for indigenous 
peoples in Canada.
I will give a few examples. Many will sound familiar 
because they are closely aligned with the United Nations 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  —  goals  that 
apply  to  all  of  our  countries  without  exception.  Our 
efforts include investments to help bring safe and clean 
drinking water to all indigenous communities, part of 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  6,  on  clean  water  and 
sanitation.  So  far,  more  than  two  dozen  long-term 
drinking-water  advisories  in  indigenous  communities 
have been eliminated, and we have a plan to bring to an 
end those that remain.
17-29585
11/33
A/72/PV.12 
(spoke in French)
Those efforts take the form of new investments to 
eliminate  gaps  in  the  education  of  First  Nations.  The 
new agreements recognize the power and authority of 
First  Nations.  They  also  consider  ways  to  create  and 
manage  educational  systems  that  are  managed  within 
the  communities,  by  the  communities  and  for  the 
communities. Those important notions are in line with 
Sustainable Development Goal 4, on quality education.
For  many  indigenous  peoples  in  Canada,  among 
other things, those investments will enable laying the 
foundation for reaching Sustainable Development Goal 
8, on decent work and economic growth. We know that 
no  one  can  hope  to  have  a  true  and  equal  chance  of 
succeeding without good health, a solid community, a 
well-paid  quality  job,  quality  education  and  safe  and 
affordable  housing.  Of  course,  that  also  applies  to 
indigenous peoples.
(spoke in English)
That  is  why  our  efforts  include  working  with 
indigenous  communities  to  help  build  and  refurbish 
homes. Construction work on nearly 4,000 homes has 
been completed or is under way, helping to fulfil SDG 
11, on making communities safe and sustainable places 
to  live.  And  across  the  country,  we  are  also  working 
on a national housing strategy to give more Canadians 
access to housing that is safe, affordable and adequate.
Our  efforts  also  include  a  sharper  focus  on 
indigenous  communities  across  Canada  and  around 
the world as it relates to SDG 5, on combating gender-
based  violence  and  giving  women  and  girls  equal 
opportunities  to  succeed.  We  need  women  and  girls 
to  succeed  because  that  is  how  we  grow  stronger 
economies and build stronger communities. That is why 
our Government will be moving forward shortly with 
legislation to ensure equal pay for work of equal value.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals  are  as 
meaningful in Canada as they are everywhere else in 
the  world.  We  are  committed  to  implementing  them 
at  home,  while  we  also  work  with  our  international 
partners  to  achieve  them  around  the  world.  That 
is  important,  because  poverty  and  hunger  know 
no  borders.  We  cannot  pretend  that  those  solvable 
challenges happen only on distant shores. The need for 
greater equality and decent work are real and persistent 
human  needs  —  ones  we  cannot  afford  to  ignore, 
especially in our own countries.
(spoke in French)
21/09/2017
that  means  new 
It  is  up  to  each  of  us  to  ensure  that  all  of  us, 
including indigenous peoples, have better opportunities. 
It  is  our  responsibility  to  ensure  that  true  equality  is 
unconditional.  Equality  applies  to  us  all,  regardless 
of our gender, origin, beliefs or the person we choose 
to  love.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  take  better  care  of 
the  environment  that  we  all  share.  As  I  said  here  at 
the signing ceremony of the Paris Agreement, we are 
all  implicated,  in  all  senses  of  the  word.  We  are  all 
responsible,  and  our  new  ways  of  doing  things  must 
take that into account.
(spoke in English)
In  Canada 
relationships 
between  the  Government  of  Canada  and  indigenous 
peoples — relationships based on recognition of rights, 
respect, cooperation and partnership. We recently made 
changes to our Government structures to help with the 
transition  to  those  new  relationships  with  indigenous 
peoples. We are dismantling the old colonial bureaucratic 
structures  and  creating  a  new  Department  of  Crown-
Indigenous  Relations  and  Northern  Affairs,  led  by 
Carolyn Bennett, an experienced and effective advocate 
for indigenous peoples in Canada. In her new role, she 
will  lead  our  Government’s  efforts  to  better  support 
indigenous  peoples  as  they  strengthen  their  distinct 
political, cultural, legal and economic institutions and 
assume autonomy over their own affairs, including the 
recognition and implementation of self-government as 
an expression of self-determination.
At  the  same  time,  we  recognize  that  in  Canada 
the  federal  Government  has  a  historic  responsibility 
for  providing  services  to  indigenous  peoples  and  an 
ongoing role to play. To better do that work while at the 
same  time  supporting  indigenous  self-determination, 
in consultation with indigenous peoples, we will create 
a new Department of Indigenous Services, led by our 
former  Minister  of  Health,  Jane  Philpott.  Over  time, 
programmes and services will increasingly be delivered 
by  indigenous  peoples,  as  part  of  their  move  towards 
true  self-government  and  the  full  implementation 
of  the  United  Nations  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of 
Indigenous Peoples.
(spoke in French)
We  believe  that  this  separation  is  the  best  way 
its  sustainable  development 
for  Canada 
commitments,  while  following  the  principle  of  self-
to  meet 
12/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
determination, which is at the heart of the Declaration. 
We are in uncharted territory. No one has paved the way 
for us, but we cannot wait. The time has come to take 
our own journey together. The time has come to think 
outside the box, to move away from the limits imposed 
by old outdated colonial structures and to make room 
for innovation and structures that respect the inherent 
rights of indigenous peoples to govern themselves and 
to determine their own future.
(spoke in English)
For  the  federal  Government,  that  means  making 
changes to how we operate. The departmental change 
I  mentioned  is  part  of  fulfilling  that  responsibility. 
For  indigenous  peoples,  it  means  taking  a  hard  look 
at  how  they  define  and  govern  themselves  as  nations 
and Governments, and how they seek to relate to other 
orders of Government. Indigenous peoples will decide 
how  they  wish  to  represent  and  organize  themselves. 
Some  may  choose  to  engage  with  our  Government 
based on historic nations and treaties, others will use 
different  shared  experiences  as  the  basis  for  coming 
together.  The  choice  is  theirs.  That  is  precisely  what 
self-determination demands.
Although  that  path  is  uncharted,  I  am  confident 
that  we  will  reach  a  place  of  reconciliation,  that  we 
will  reach  a  place  as  a  country  where  nation-to-
nation,  Government-to-Government  and  Inuit-Crown 
relationships can be transformed — a place where the 
standards enshrined in the United Nations Declaration 
of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples are fully realized 
not  merely  by  Government  mandate,  but  in  true 
partnership with indigenous peoples.
Part  of 
that  new  partnership  will 
involve 
addressing  the  shared  challenge  of  climate  change. 
Indigenous and northern communities are particularly 
affected  by  its  stark  reality.  In  communities  across 
the  north  —  places  like  Paulatuk,  Kugluktuk,  and 
Tuktoyaktuk  —  community  members  are  finding 
sea  ice  conditions  more  dangerous  and  unpredictable 
for  travelling  and  hunting  in  the  winter.  In  Canada’s 
western  Arctic,  the  permafrost  is  melting  and  huge 
pieces  of  tundra  are  eroding  into  the  ocean.  Around 
Baffin  Island,  Inuit  elders  are  finding  it  difficult  to 
forecast the weather like they used to, so difficult that 
many are now reluctant to even try.
At  home,  we  are  working  hard  to  help  those 
communities  adapt  and  prepare  for  the  future.  At  the 
international  level,  our  commitment  is  unwavering. 
There is no country on the planet that can walk away 
from  the  challenge  and  reality  of  climate  change.  For 
our  part,  Canada  will  continue  to  fight  for  the  global 
plan  that  has  a  realistic  chance  of  countering  it.  We 
have a responsibility to future generations, and we will 
uphold it.
We have a chance to build in Canada and around the 
world economies that are clean, that are growing, that 
are  forward-looking.  We  will  not  let  that  opportunity 
pass us by.
(spoke in French)
In  Canada  that  means  imposing  a  tariff  on 
carbon-related  pollution.  When  that  is  done  properly, 
it  is  the  most  effective  way  of  reducing  emissions 
while  continuing  to  grow  the  economy.  It  also  means 
continuing  to  work  with  other  countries  to  bring  us 
closer to the goals we have set for ourselves. Last week 
in  Montreal,  we  welcomed  environment  leaders  from 
over 30 countries to participate in a working meeting. It 
was an opportunity for us to discuss the various ways of 
implementing the Paris Agreement and to maintain the 
international  momentum  towards  a  more  sustainable 
future for all.
(spoke in English)
Likewise, the global community has a responsibility 
to  do  all  that  it  can  to  reduce  inequality  within  and 
among  countries.  In  Canada  we  are  working  hard  to 
achieve that goal. We improved child benefit payments. 
Our  new  programme  gives  nine  out  of  10  families 
more money to help with the high cost of raising their 
kids,  and  because  of  that  we  expect  to  reduce  child 
poverty in Canada by 40 per cent. We raised taxes on 
the wealthiest 1 per cent so that we could lower them 
for the middle class, and we are continuing to look for 
ways to make our tax system more fair. Right now we 
have  a  system  that  encourages  wealthy  Canadians  to 
use  private  corporations  to  pay  a  lower  tax  rate  than 
middle-class  Canadians.  That  is  not  fair,  and  we  are 
going to fix it.
(spoke in French)
We are investing to make education more affordable 
and  accessible  so  that  every  Canadian  can  get  the 
training needed to find and keep a good, well-paying 
job.  That  is  particularly  important  at  a  time  when 
automation  is  challenging  the  traditional  definition 
of work.
17-29585
13/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
to 
At  the  international  level,  we  have  reaffirmed 
Canada’s  commitment 
reducing  poverty  and 
injustice,  while  also  putting  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls  at  the  heart  of  our 
development  efforts.  We  have  adopted  that  approach 
because we know that supporting women and girls leads 
to  economic  growth,  and  that  peace  and  cooperation 
can then take root. Families and communities can then 
hope for a better quality of life.
(spoke in English)
We  are  also  working  hard  to  deliver  progressive 
trade agreements such as the Comprehensive Economic 
and  Trade  Agreement  (CETA)  with  the  European 
Union,  which  comes  into  effect  today.  CETA  will 
expand  opportunities  for  businesses,  create  good, 
well-paying  jobs  for  workers  and  deliver  meaningful 
economic  growth  —  the  kind  of  growth  that  benefits 
all  our  citizens,  not  just  the  wealthiest.  We  have  the 
opportunity  —  and  I  would  argue  that  we  have  the 
responsibility  —  to  ensure  that  trade  agreements 
include strong provisions to safeguard workers’ rights, 
to  protect  the  environment  and  to  ensure  that  the 
benefits  of  trade  are  felt  more  broadly.  When  we  do 
that, we do not just grow our economies, we live up to 
our values. We say to ourselves and to one another that 
good enough just is not good enough, and that better is 
always possible.
(spoke in French)
It is always possible to do better when people are 
at  the  heart  of  the  decisions  we  make.  People,  as  the 
theme of this general debate reminds us, are the key to 
building a peaceful and prosperous future. It is a future 
that we all want for ourselves, for our children and for 
our  grandchildren.  It  is  a  future  in  which  indigenous 
people in Canada and around the world have the right to 
participate as equal partners. It is a future that we can 
build if we work together.
(spoke in English)
Our  efforts  to  build  a  better  relationship  with 
indigenous  peoples  in  Canada  are  not  only  about 
righting  historical  wrongs.  They  are  about  listening, 
learning  and  working  together.  They  are  also  about 
concrete actions for the future. The reconciliation that 
we seek holds lessons for us all.
We  cannot  build  strong  relationships  if  we  refuse 
to have conversations. We cannot chart a more peaceful 
path if the starting point is suspicion and mistrust. And 
we cannot build a better world unless we work together, 
respect  our  differences,  protect  the  vulnerable  and 
stand up for the things that matter most. As I said last 
year (see A/71/PV.8), I know that it will be hard work. 
But  I  remain  confident  —  for  Canada’s  experience 
shows it to be true — that any challenge can be met if 
we meet it together.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Canada  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Justin  Trudeau,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada, 
was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State 
of Samoa
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent State of Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of 
the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have great pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele 
Malielegaoi, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): Samoa warmly welcomes 
the assumption of Mr. Miroslav Lajčák to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session, 
at  a  time  when  our  Organization  is  going  through 
unprecedentedly  volatile  and  difficult  times.  We  look 
forward to his leadership so that together we can chart 
a  safer,  more  predictable  and  more  humane  pathway 
in our journey through life’s uncharted waters. He can 
count  on  Samoa’s  support  as  we  work  in  partnership 
to translate into tangible and measurable achievements 
the  overarching  theme  of  his  tenure,  “Focusing  on 
people: Striving for peace and a decent life for all on a 
sustainable planet”.
14/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
The  President’s  predecessor,  Ambassador  Peter 
Thomson  of  Fiji,  demonstrated  strong 
leadership 
during his successful presidency. We wish him well in 
his new calling.
Secretary-General  Guterres  is  passionate  about, 
and  committed  to,  turning  the  United  Nations  into 
an  efficient  and  effective  Organization  that  is  fit  for 
purpose and readily responsive to the needs of the very 
peoples it was established to serve in the first place. In 
working to make the focus of the United Nations more 
people-centred  than  process-centred,  Samoa  assures 
the Secretary-General of its full support.
This week’s annual general debate is the twentieth 
successive  general  debate  of  the  General  Assembly 
that  I  have  attended  and  addressed.  My  continuous 
participation  is  a  measure  of  my  conviction  and  my 
Government’s  unqualified  faith  in  the  value  of  the 
United Nations and the endless potential that it holds to 
deal successfully with any issue of diversity and gravity 
that it confronts. The United Nations remains our choice 
of last resort and hope to provide the political will and 
the  necessary  commitment  to  address  our  challenges. 
That is why we want it to remain relevant and adaptable 
to changing circumstances. It must be able to respond 
effectively to the current and emerging challenges that 
our world faces.
We meet against the backdrop of a world plagued by 
uncertainty and a sense of ebbing hope. We are losing 
the fight to free our world from poverty and instability. 
Conflicts  abound,  and  we  are  no  longer  distanced  or 
disconnected  from  deadly  acts  of  terrorism  and  the 
devastation  of  natural  and  human-induced  disasters. 
We  are  living  in  an  environment  of  risk.  Climate 
change is an existential threat. Allow me to pause and 
offer our sincere condolences to the Governments and 
the peoples of all the countries that have suffered from 
the recent devastation of hurricanes and earthquakes.
We  cannot  help  but  watch  with  trepidation  and 
uneasiness  the  global  dynamics  that  are  nudging  our 
world  perilously  close  to  a  potential  catastrophe  of 
unimaginable  proportions.  As  small  island  Pacific 
countries, we are no longer protected by our isolation. 
We are bystanders, but we have the most to lose in the 
unfolding power drama being played out on the Korean 
peninsula. We pray for visionary leadership with sound 
moral judgment on both sides in order to ensure that we 
give peace a chance.
That  explains  why  I  signed  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons yesterday on Samoa’s 
behalf. As a signatory to that historic Treaty, we wanted 
to demonstrate unequivocally our aspiration for a world 
without  nuclear  weapons.  The  conventional  narrative 
that  the  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  will  act  as 
deterrent  to  make  the  world  a  safer  place  to  live  has 
not been borne out by the current realities. Otherwise, 
the  developments  on  the  Korean  peninsula  would  not 
have happened at all. We firmly believe that possessing 
nuclear weapons and adding new nuclear Powers only 
make our world less safe, less secure and less peaceful, 
hence  the  need  to  rid  our  world  completely  of  all 
nuclear weapons.
No  matter  how  noble  a  goal  lies  behind  having 
such arsenals, allowing them to fall into the wrong and 
unprincipled hands is a recipe for doom and mayhem, 
because people, after all, are human and mere mortals. 
But  all  is  not  yet  lost.  The  adoption  of  the  New  York 
Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants,  which  offers 
a  united  approach  to  addressing  the  plight  of  the 
world’s  displaced  peoples,  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations  Office  of  Counter-Terrorism,  which  is  aimed 
at  enhancing  the  Organization’s  capability  to  assist 
Member  States  in  implementing  the  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  and  the  historic, 
first-ever  Treaty  banning  nuclear  weapons  are  all 
positive developments moving forward.
Like  other  global  challenges,  climate  change 
transcends  borders  without  leaving  a  trace.  It  has  no 
respect  for  sovereignty  and  does  not  discriminate 
between rich and poor countries. Its dire consequences 
are  real,  including  for  those  who  remain  in  denial. 
Climate  change  is  a  perpetual  priority  issue  for  my 
country  and  our  Pacific  region.  In  our  small  islands, 
as  we  witnessed  recently,  natural  catastrophes  can 
decimate  an  entire  country,  bringing  with  them  great 
pain  and  upheaval  to  peoples’  lives,  as  well  as  set 
back  the  national  economy  for  years.  We  know  that 
from  repeated  past  experience.  Our  islands’  limited 
resources and lack of adaptive capacity make the burden 
of  rehabilitation  a  mammoth  undertaking.  While  we 
applaud  the  resilience  of  our  people  to  bounce  back 
from major natural disasters, the scars of those natural 
phenomena take years to heal and recover from. If it is 
any consolation to our island States, even some of the 
well-resourced  developed  countries  continue  to  try  to 
recover from and overcome the impact of catastrophes 
that devastated their economies.
17-29585
15/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
Samoa  remains  committed  to  ongoing  efforts  to 
pursue respect for human rights and the rule of law, and 
does its part to contribute to that global effort. For the 
first time ever, at Samoa’s invitation, a United Nations 
human rights expert group visited last month to carry 
out a fact-finding mission to assess the progress made 
towards eliminating discrimination against women and 
towards  protecting  and  promoting  women’s  rights  in 
the country. Samoa is the first Pacific country to open 
its doors to that independent mechanism.
We continue to place great faith in the rule of law 
and the vital protection it offers to all States, especially 
to  weak  and  small  countries  like  mine  without  any 
armed  forces  or  affiliation  to  any  military  grouping. 
The International Criminal Court (ICC) is an important 
part of the architecture of world peace based on the rule 
of law. We call for the early activation of the Kampala 
Amendments. The ICC was represented at the Pacific 
Islands Forum Special Leaders’ Retreat held earlier this 
month in Samoa.
Terrorism  is  an  offence  to  humankind  and  runs 
contrary to the core values of the United Nations. For 
Samoa,  I  reaffirm  our  strong  support  for  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  against  terrorism,  which 
send  a  clear  signal  of  our  determination  to  suppress 
terrorist  activities,  including  training,  international 
recruiting  and  financing.  Samoa  continues  to  align 
its  domestic  policies  and  legislation  to  meeting  its 
international  obligations  to  help  combat  terrorism, 
as  well  as  to  participate  actively  in  Pacific  regional 
security initiatives.
In 
the 
context  of  peacekeeping,  Samoa’s 
unwavering  support  for  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
work is underscored by 17 years of uninterrupted police 
deployment serving in missions in Liberia, the Sudan, 
Timor-Leste and South Sudan. Although we are a small 
country, Samoan police officers continue to serve side 
by  side  with  officers  from  other  countries  in  places 
that  require  the  intervention  of  the  United  Nations. 
Our  commitment  is  rooted  in  our  firm  belief  in  the 
role that United Nations peacekeeping plays in helping 
eliminate the causes of conflict and in bringing about 
peace and stability. We fully endorse the condemnation 
of sexual exploitation and abuse in peacekeeping, which 
is  why  we  signed  the  international  compact  initiative 
of  the  Secretary-General  to  committing  countries  to 
eliminating those heinous acts in peacekeeping.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
provides  our  framework  to  put  the  world  on  a  path 
towards a sustainable and resilient future for the people, 
the  planet  and  prosperity.  Although  the  2030  Agenda 
remains  a  high  priority  on  the  global  agenda  and  we 
see signs of momentum in terms of its implementation, 
much work remains to be done. The need to accelerate 
global  action  on,  and  awareness  of,  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  remains.  The  adoption  of 
the  Pacific  regional  road  map  for  implementing  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in Asia and 
the  Pacific  complements  Samoa’s  road  map  based  on 
an integrated approach involving the implementation of 
the  2030  Agenda,  the  Small  Island  Developing  States 
(SIDS) Accelerated Modalities of Action, known as the 
Samoa Pathway, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change 
and the Framework for Pacific Regionalism, which are 
aligned with our national development strategy.
For  small  island  developing  States,  the  Samoa 
Pathway  is  their  sustainable  development  road  map, 
which highlights their key tasks and priorities, and is 
closely linked to the 2030 Agenda. As we approach the 
five-year  review  of  the  Samoa  Pathway  in  2019,  it  is 
important to ensure that the comprehensive review of 
United Nations support for SIDS is properly addressed 
and  implemented.  We  need  to  study  closely  lessons 
learned from the partnerships registered for SIDS and 
encourage proactive follow-up, as well as pursue new 
partnerships for the group’s sustainable development.
Since the last annual global multi-stakeholder small 
island developing States partnership dialogue, several 
partnerships  and  voluntary  commitments  specific  to 
small island developing States were launched during the 
Ocean Conference. Prior to the mid-term review of the 
SIDS outcome document, it is important that we look 
at  ways  of  improving  implementation  and  addressing 
gaps  and  emerging  issues.  The  success  of  the  Ocean 
Conference was crucial to building momentum in the 
implementation of the SDGs, given that the ocean is the 
lifeblood of the planet. Addressing the targets of SDG 
14 for SIDS is catalytic to implementing several, if not 
all, of the 17 Goals.
With the new Blue Pacific concept for the Pacific 
region, and the concrete outcomes from the Conference, 
emphasis  will  be  placed  on  implementation.  At  the 
Ocean  Conference,  Samoa  pledged  13  voluntary 
commitments  that  showcased  national  efforts  aimed 
at  the  conservation,  management  and  sustainable  use 
16/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
of  the  ocean  and  its  resources  and  the  engagement 
of communities.
During  the  Ocean  Conference  in  June,  I  was 
appointed the Special Ambassador of the International 
Year  of  Sustainable  Tourism  for  Development  by  the 
United Nations World Tourism Organization. The year 
2017 is a crucial one for sustainable tourism. Given the 
reliance  of  many  of  our  small  economies  on  tourism 
and the role it can play in SDG implementation, we will 
continue  to  promote  the  role  of  tourism  in  support  of 
peaceful societies and sustainable development.
Let me now turn to the regional context and share 
with the Assembly some of the decisions taken by the 
leaders  of  our  Pacific  Islands  Forum  at  their  forty-
eighth Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting, which 
my country was privileged to host at the beginning of 
the  month.  For  our  year-long  chairmanship  we  chose 
the theme “The Blue Pacific: Our sea of islands — Our 
security through sustainable development, management 
and conservation”.
We in Samoa reaffirmed the Framework for Pacific 
Regionalism to drive our region’s policy agenda towards 
the realization of our vision, that of a region of peace, 
harmony,  security,  social  inclusion  and  prosperity,  so 
as to enable all Pacific people to lead free, healthy and 
productive lives.
We  also  endorsed  the  Blue  Pacific  identity  as 
the  core  driver  of  collective  action  for  advancing 
the  leaders’  vision  under  the  Framework  for  Pacific 
Regionalism.  This  new  narrative  calls  for  inspired 
leadership  and  a  long-term  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
foreign policy commitment to act as one for the good of 
all rather than a few. The Blue Pacific identity reinforces 
the  potential  of  our  shared  stewardship  of  the  Pacific 
Ocean, based on the explicit recognition of our shared 
ocean identity, ocean geography and ocean resources. 
It  aims  to  strengthen  collective  action  by  putting  the 
Blue Pacific at the centre of regional policymaking and 
united action for advancing the Pacific Islands Forum 
Leaders’ vision for the region.
We discussed the key priorities for our region with 
other Pacific leaders, a few of which I will highlight, 
as their implementation requires collective and urgent 
action from this gathering of the United Nations.
happening;  it  cannot  be  washed  away  by  the  rising 
tides. It has significant security implications. Its impact 
threatens  the  continued  existence  and  viability  as 
sovereign States of some of our low-lying atolls. Even 
countries  that  have  been  in  self-denial  with  regard  to 
the  phenomenon  of  climate  change,  must  surely  now 
accept the weight of scientific evidence.
The 
implementation  of 
the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  is  of  high  priority  and  requires 
collective  action  to  address  this  existential  threat. 
We are confident that Fiji’s presidency of the twenty-
third  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change will focus 
the  spotlight  on  challenges  and  the  need  for  genuine 
partnerships  to  help  us  deliver  on  our  nationally 
determined contributions as part of the implementation 
of the Paris Agreement. The Pacific has also endorsed 
its  Framework  for  Resilience  Development  in  the 
Pacific:  An  Integrated  Approach  to  Address  Climate 
Change  and  Disaster  Risk  Management  and 
its 
institutional  arrangements  to  support  the  elaboration 
and implementation of the Paris Agreement.
Secondly, the ocean and its resources continue to be 
critical to the livelihoods of our people and the region. 
The impacts of climate change, illegal, unregulated and 
unreported fishing and overfishing are threatening the 
sustainability of this crucial resource of our region. The 
Pacific  Forum  members  will  continue  to  be  actively 
engaged  on  all  ocean-related  issues  at  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  including  the 
biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction process.
its 
Thirdly,  we  adopted  the  Pacific  Road  Map  for 
Sustainable  Development  and 
implementation 
strategy. That reflects the seriousness our region places 
on  implementing  the  17  SDGs  and  the  importance  of 
a  regional  approach  to  meeting  those  international 
commitments. We continue to count on the important 
role of the United Nations and our partners to support 
regional and national efforts for SDG implementation, 
particularly  the  building  of  our  capabilities.  We  look 
forward to the Secretary-General’s reform and how the 
Forum can engage to ensure its priorities in terms of its 
SDG  road  map  and  the  implementation  of  the  Samoa 
Pathway, the Paris Agreement and other regional needs 
are considered in the reform.
First, climate change remains a priority challenge 
for the Pacific region because of its existential nature 
and its security implications. Climate change is already 
Finally, in the context of security, the Pacific Islands 
Forum  remains  committed  to  collective  arrangements 
to  assist  regional  Governments 
and  mechanisms 
17-29585
17/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
recover from national conflicts and crises. The success 
of  thse  arrangements,  together  with  the  support  of 
the  United  Nations,  is  already  evident  in  the  positive 
results of the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon 
Islands  (RAMSI).  I  am  honoured  to  acknowledge  the 
successful  conclusion  of  the  Mission,  which  brought 
together peacekeepers from all member countries of the 
Pacific Islands Forum.
Leaders  acknowledged  the  successful  conclusion 
of  RAMSI  and  recognized  it  as  a  success  story  of 
regionalism  and  a  workable  example  of  regional 
cooperation  and  diplomacy,  embodying  more  than 
a  decade  of  partnership  and  cooperation  among  the 
Forum member countries. They agreed to build on the 
Biketawa Declaration and other Forum security-related 
declarations to expand the concept of security, including 
human  security,  humanitarian  assistance,  prioritizing 
environmental  security  and  regional  cooperation  in 
building resilience to disasters and climate change.
Over the years, the Pacific has continued to call for 
advancing the cause of nuclear non-proliferation. Issues 
such as radioactive contaminants in the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands are of great concern to both that country 
and the region. We count on the promised support of the 
relevant United Nations entities to respond accordingly 
to  requests  for  assistance,  including  working  closely 
with the regional technical agencies. The United States 
of America is also encouraged to take urgent action to 
address the issue.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
and  Trade  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Slovenia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Miro  Cerar,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Slovenia.
Mr. Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Slovenia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Miro 
Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Cerar  (Slovenia):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to express our sympathies to Mexico and its people as 
they grapple with the effects of the earthquake that has 
resulted in so many tragic victims and ruined homes.
I would like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on 
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session  and  to  wish  him  every 
success  in  discharging  his  duties.  He  can  count  on 
Slovenia’s full support. I would also like to to express 
my  gratitude  to  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson,  for  his  important  contribution  to  the  work 
of  the  General  Assembly  over  the  past  year.  Lastly,  I 
would also like to congratulate Mr. António Guterres 
on  his  appointment  as  Secretary-General.  I  commend 
his determination to promote the United Nations and its 
values and goals, and his tireless efforts to strengthen 
the Organization.
The  world  continues  to  deal  with  challenges  to 
international  peace  and  security  that  are  ever  more 
complex  and  intertwined.  Shocking  images  of  human 
suffering  are  a  daily  reality,  the  consequences  of  the 
armed  conflicts,  environmental  degradation,  famine, 
lack  of  economic  opportunity,  grave  breaches  of 
human rights and terrorism that are just some of those 
global challenges. If we are to address them, effective 
international  cooperation,  with  the  United  Nations 
at  its  core,  is  essential.  We  have  the  mandate  and  the 
responsibility to act. We must stand united to address 
global challenges together. Despite those threats, I am 
encouraged by a new dynamic in the United Nations and 
the strong push by the Secretary-General to strengthen 
multilateralism and the reform agenda. I commend his 
determination  to  make  the  Organization  stronger  and 
more  fit  to  serve  as  the  bedrock  of  the  international 
rules-based  order.  More  than  ever,  we  need  a  strong 
United Nations to be one of our key actors in providing 
security, stability and a life of dignity for all.
Two years ago, we achieved a milestone by agreeing 
on our development road map. Together, the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  the  Paris  Climate 
Change Agreement provide a framework and vision for 
a more sustainable planet in the future and prosperity 
for all. The true test now is their implementation. This 
is not the time to go back on our promises. Rather, we 
18/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
need  to  turn  them  into  real  progress  that  will  benefit 
people around the globe. Slovenia has embarked on that 
path  with  a  sense  of  urgency.  That  is  demonstrated, 
among  other  things,  by  Slovenia’s  high  ranking  in 
the  SDG  Index  and  Dashboards  2017  Report,  which 
shows  that  we  are  in  the  top  10  of  157  measured 
countries in our achievements towards the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
in  protecting 
We  are  strongly  engaged 
the 
environment  and  ensuring 
its  sustainability,  and 
we  are  determined  to  raise  awareness  about  the  key 
factors  shaping  our  sustainable  future.  For  example, 
we  recognize  the  key  role  that  bees  and  other 
pollinators  play  in  preventing  hunger,  ensuring  food 
security,  improving  human  health  and  preserving  the 
environment and its biodiversity. In that context, we are 
proposing  that  the  General  Assembly  declare  20  May 
an  international  day  of  bees  and  proclaim  it  World 
Bee  Day.  I  would  like  to  thank  all  of  the  States  that 
have  already  expressed  support  for  the  initiative  and 
encourage others to do so.
Achieving 
sustainable  development 
is  only 
possible  if  the  global  community  works  together  in  a 
solid partnership between Governments, international 
organizations,  civil  society,  academia  and  the  private 
sector. The same is true for dealing with large global 
migrations and refugee flows. Shared responsibility and 
solidarity should be the guiding principles of our global 
approach.  In  that  spirit,  Slovenia  is  constructively 
engaged  in  the  consultation  process  for  the  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  and 
the  global  compact  on  refugees.  We  believe  that  the 
adoption  in  2018  of  both  global  compacts  will  be 
another major milestone in our path towards ensuring a 
life of dignity for all.
Without respect for human rights, there can be no 
peace,  freedom,  security  or  development.  The  United 
Nations has been instrumental in promoting respect for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  worldwide. 
However, let us not forget that the primary responsibility 
for  the  fulfilment  of  human  rights  lies  with  States. 
Slovenia,  as  a  current  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, is a strong supporter of human rights. In that 
spirit, we continue to advocate a progressive approach 
to  human  rights  issues,  enhancing  protection  norms 
and  standards  at  all  levels.  Our  main  focus  is  on  the 
rights of children, support for gender equality and the 
empowerment  of  women,  as  well  as  the  rights  of  the 
elderly. In that context, we also focus on the importance 
of intergenerational collaboration.
There is still much to be done before we can ensure a 
life of dignity for all without discrimination. More must 
also be done to mitigate harm to civilians, especially in 
the context of armed conflicts, and to prevent all forms 
of  sexual  violence.  It  is  particularly  despicable  when 
people  deployed  to  protect  civilians  engage  in  abuse. 
We  therefore  underline  the  need  for  a  zero-tolerance 
policy on all forms of sexual exploitation and abuse.
is 
to  a 
indispensable 
Respect for international treaties, the decisions of 
international courts and tribunals and other sources of 
international  law,  as  well  as  the  ability  to  implement 
them, 
functioning  global 
community.  Respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from 
treaties  and  for  other  sources  of  international  law  is 
also  embedded  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
and  is  the  very  foundation  of  international  peace 
and  security.  Moreover,  it  is  an  important  guarantor 
of  friendly  relations  and  cooperation  among  States. 
Slovenia recognizes the essential role of the rule of law 
and international law and has therefore made it central 
to its foreign policy.
In the context of the rule of law, ending impunity 
for the most serious international crimes continues to 
be an important goal for my Government. Slovenia is 
committed to promoting international criminal justice, 
especially  as  it  is  represented  by  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC). The principles enshrined in the 
Charter  attest  to  the  natural  partnership  between  the 
United Nations and the Court, and that relationship is 
expected  to  advance  even  further  with  the  activation 
of the ICC’s jurisdiction over the crime of aggression, 
which is anticipated by the end of the year. We express 
our strong support for swift activation of the Kampala 
amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression.  Needless  to 
say,  the  primary  responsibility  to  prosecute  atrocity 
crimes  still  rests  with  States.  Slovenia,  together  with 
other  leading  States,  will  continue  to  actively  pursue 
the improvement of the international legal framework 
for mutual legal assistance and extradition for domestic 
prosecution of the most serious international crimes.
Years  of  horrific  war  in  Syria,  conflicts  in 
Afghanistan,  Yemen,  Iraq,  Libya  and  Mali  and  dire 
situations  such  as  those  in  South  Sudan  and  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, to name just a few, 
remain  particular  sources  of  concern.  We  call  on  all 
relevant  parties  to  refrain  from  the  use  of  force  and 
17-29585
19/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
engage  in  political  dialogue.  Violent  extremism  and 
the  crimes  committed  by  terrorist  groups  continue  to 
plague  the  world.  We  must  do  all  we  can  to  prevent 
and stop such crimes, particularly by providing viable 
alternative opportunities for young people.
The United Nations plays a key role in countering 
terrorism, including the prevention of violent extremism. 
In  that  regard,  Slovenia  welcomed  the  reform  of  the 
United Nations counter-terrorism architecture, as well 
as resolution 71/291, designed to strengthen the ability 
of the United Nations system to assist Member States 
in  implementing  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-
Terrorism Strategy.
to 
is  committed 
As  a  strong  supporter  of  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament in the area of weapons of mass destruction, 
Slovenia 
treaty-based  nuclear 
disarmament  and  arms  control.  We  firmly  believe 
that  we  must  work  progressively  to  achieve  a  world 
free  of  nuclear  weapons  through  full  implementation 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.  In  that  regard,  we  strongly  condemn  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s violations of 
Security Council resolutions and its own international 
commitments. They pose a serious threat to peace and 
security  in  the  region  and  beyond.  We  must  intensify 
our  efforts  to  sustain  peace  everywhere,  but  most 
immediately  in  a  wide  range  of  fragile  and  conflict-
affected  States.  Conflicts  cannot  be  prevented  or 
resolved  by  addressing  the  symptoms  alone;  we  must 
address  the  underlying  causes.  For  that  we  have  to 
think long term. The United Nations can help to defuse 
latent conflicts. Whenever possible, we should opt for 
diplomacy, mediation and conflict prevention.
The emphasis must be on doing more in a collective, 
timely  and  effective  manner.  That  can  be  achieved 
only  by  a  strong,  robust,  adaptable,  knowledgeable 
and responsible United Nations, which is why Slovenia 
strongly  supports 
the  Secretary-General’s  reform 
efforts.  The  various  parts  of  the  United  Nations 
system  must  be  better  coordinated.  Duplication  must 
be  avoided,  and  the  common  goal  must  be  getting 
tangible  results.  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  assuring 
the Assembly that Slovenia is committed to supporting 
the United Nations and is determined to work with all 
partners  to  deliver  tangible,  meaningful  results  that 
will advance peace, security, development and human 
rights for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Slovenia  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Miroslav Cerar, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Slovenia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Sigmar Gabriel, Vice-Chancellor 
and Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal 
Republic of Germany.
Mr.  Gabriel  (Germany)  (spoke 
in  German; 
interpretation provided by the delegation): We seem to 
be going through a phase in which we are confronted 
with  hurricanes  and  earthquakes,  both  political  and 
natural,  upheavals  that  are  getting  harsher  and  more 
intransigent and belligerent from day to day and from 
speech  to  speech.  As  responsible  politicians,  it  is 
vital that we ask ourselves how we can bring about a 
change  in  direction  that  will  lead  to  more  peace  and 
stability, less hunger and better prospects for everyone 
in the world.
How do we ensure that globalization will ultimately 
deliver  justice  for  all  rather  than  riches  to  the  few? 
One  answer  as  to  how  we  can  achieve  that  change  in 
direction  can  be  found  in  a  report  addressed  to  the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. It states that 
we must not limit ourselves to the “traditional questions 
of  peace  and  war”  but  must  also  work  to  overcome 
“world  hunger,  mass  misery  and  alarming  disparities 
between  the  living  conditions  of  rich  and  poor”.  I 
find  the  analysis  very  apt.  The  painful  thing  about 
that  excerpt  is  that  it  comes  not  from  a  recent  report 
to the Secretary-General but from one that goes back 
nearly 40 years. Its apt analysis of the global situation 
can be found in North-South: A Program for Survival, 
commissioned almost 40 years ago to the day, the report 
of the North-South Commission, which began its work 
in 1977. The Chairman of the Commission was former 
German Chancellor Willy Brandt.
Humankind  is  still  dealing  with  more  or  less  the 
same structural difficulties today, but it seems to have 
become  rather  more  difficult  to  change  the  world  for 
the  better.  Looking  around  the  globe  today,  it  seems 
that a world view that puts one’s own national interests 
first  and  which  refuses  to  engage  in  a  balancing  of 
interests among the nations of the world is gaining ever 
more ground. National egotism, I believe, is worthless 
as an organizing principle for our world of the twenty-
20/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
first century. Such egotism sees the world as an arena, 
a  battleground  in  which  everyone  is  fighting  against 
everyone else and in which everyone has to assert his 
or  her  own  interests,  either  alone  or  in  alliances  of 
convenience.  In  this  world  view,  it  is  the  law  of  the 
strongest that prevails, not the strength of international 
law. I firmly believe that we have to rise up against this 
world  view.  We  need  more  international  cooperation 
and less national egotism, not the other way around.
Some 40 years ago, the North-South Commission 
recognized  that  global  problems  cannot  be  resolved 
through confrontation but only through often arduous 
efforts to compromise and identify common interests. 
Ultimately, no country can win if it strives only to assert 
its own interests. If we all did that, looking out only for 
our own national interests, confrontations and conflicts 
would increase and global prosperity would falter. The 
motto “Our country first” would not only lead to more 
national confrontations and less prosperity; in the end, 
we would all be the losers. As Germans, our historical 
experience  is  quite  unusual.  Only  after  two  terrible 
world wars did we learn to see our former enemies as 
neighbours and partners with whom we wanted to share 
and shoulder responsibility for a peaceful coexistence. 
Only since then have our own citizens in Germany had 
a better life. We have learned that it was not “Germany 
first”  that  made  our  country  strong  and  prosperous; 
rather, it was “European and international responsibility 
first” that gave us Germans peace and prosperity.
international  cooperation,  no  one 
loses 
sovereignty.  Rather,  we  all  gain  a  new  sovereignty 
together that we cannot possess as nation States on our 
own in today’s world. That is why the European Union 
today provides the framework for our German policies. 
The road has often been rocky and arduous, for nothing 
is  more  difficult  than  turning  former  enemies  into 
friends.  Often  the  way  is  not  popular,  and  one  needs 
considerable  political  courage  to  take  it.  Indeed,  the 
call  for  international  cooperation  and  for  efforts  to 
balance  interests  is  not  always  popular  in  our  own 
countries.  However,  that  courage  finally  led  to  peace 
and prosperity in Europe after centuries of war. Today 
we  Germans  are  grateful  to  the  courageous  people  in 
France,  Belgium,  Luxembourg,  Italy  and  many  other 
countries of Europe for having the courage to befriend 
us  —  their  former  enemies  —  as  new  and  lasting 
partners  after  the  Second  World  War.  It  is  precisely 
because of that experience in Germany and Europe that 
In 
we  support  the  work  of  strong,  functioning  collective 
institutions, above all the United Nations.
The urgent need for us to work together to establish 
a safer world has been vividly demonstrated by North 
Korea’s  current  irresponsible  actions,  which  pose  a 
serious  threat  to  world  peace.  We  must  send  a  clear 
message  that  the  international  community  will  not 
accept  its  nuclear  provocations.  Germany  welcomes 
the  sanctions  adopted  by  the  Security  Council  and 
calls  for  their  speedy  implementation  in  Europe, 
and  we  also  support  European  initiatives  calling  for 
additional  measures.  At  the  same  time,  we  should 
use  all  the  diplomatic  means  at  our  disposal,  first  to 
defuse  the  situation  and  then  to  find  a  starting  point 
for  long-term  solutions.  Resolving  this  international 
crisis  is  crucial  because  if  we  do  not,  others  will  be 
encouraged to emulate North Korea. If a country can 
build  up  a  nuclear  arsenal  while  the  international 
community stands helplessly by, other political leaders 
and countries will follow its example. That would bring 
about new nuclear crises emerging all over the world, 
and our children and grandchildren would grow up in 
a  very  dangerous  world.  That  is  why  North  Korea’s 
acquisition of nuclear weapons is neither a bilateral nor 
a  regional  problem,  but  rather  a  global  challenge  that 
we have to overcome together.
We  cannot  accept  the  possibility  that  efforts 
to  build  a  nuclear  arsenal  can  be  rewarded  on  the 
international stage. It is therefore more important than 
ever that the international architecture for arms control 
and  disarmament  does  not  crumble.  Existing  treaties 
and agreements must not be called into question. That 
applies in particular to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action (JCPOA) for Iran’s nuclear programme. The Plan 
is a way out of the impasse of a nuclear confrontation 
that would jeopardize security in the region and have 
an  impact  far  beyond  it.  However,  we  can  reach  the 
level  of  confidence  that  we  so  urgently  need  only  if 
all obligations are rigorously met and the transparency 
we have agreed on is established. Germany will work 
within the E3+3 framework to ensure that the JCPOA is 
strictly implemented and upheld. That is not just about 
Iran; it is about the credibility of the entire international 
community.  For  what  State  would  renounce 
the 
development  of  its  own  nuclear  programme  if  it  were 
shown that negotiated agreements did not last and that 
a binding agreement with the international community 
was  not  worth  the  paper  it  was  written  on?  How  can 
we  convince  countries  such  as  North  Korea  that 
17-29585
21/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
international  agreements  make  them  more  secure  and 
will  therefore  encourage  them  to  commit  to  further 
disarmament  efforts  if  the  agreement  with  Iran,  the 
sole  international  example  of  such  an  endeavour,  is 
not upheld?
What the world needs most urgently now is renewed 
trust. With particular regard to the implementation of 
the  ban  on  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  we 
have  a  request  for  the  United  States,  Russia,  China 
and  every  country  possessing  nuclear  weapons.  They 
will be instrumental to ensuring the implementation of 
the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  of  arms 
control  and  disarmament.  To  that  end,  trust  among 
them must be restored.
Statements  by  Presidents  of  the  United  States  are 
always  important  and  interesting,  and  always  worth 
listening  to  and  even  reading  after  they  have  been 
delivered. I found a passage in one such statement that 
I  especially  liked.  In  it,  the  President  of  the  United 
States  of  America  called  for  general  and  complete 
disarmament.  Every  year,  he  said,  billions  of  dollars 
were  spent  on  weapons  that  were  acquired  for  the 
purpose  of  making  sure  we  never  need  to  use  them. 
That,  he  went  on  to  say,  was  clearly  not  the  most 
efficient means of ensuring peace. I have to admit that 
the statement dates back even further than the report of 
the North-South Commission. It was delivered by John 
F.  Kennedy  in  1963.  We  can  see  that  everything  that 
we need for a safer future has already been considered, 
written and said. I believe that today we should focus 
on the bold visions of the North-South Commission and 
President  Kennedy,  and  have  the  courage  to  come  up 
with new proposals for disarmament, arms control and 
confidence-building.
One of our tasks is to resolve emerging crises early 
on. A recent example is the escalating violence against 
the Rohingya people and the resulting refugee flows in 
the region. We should act as quickly as possible on the 
issue to offer both political and humanitarian support 
for  alleviating  the  suffering  and  ending  the  conflict. 
Germany  will  again  increase  its  aid  to  the  Rohingya 
through the International Red Cross. We are committed 
to providing political and humanitarian support, as well 
as  to  practical  peacebuilding,  in  many  crisis  regions 
around the world. And while military engagement under 
United  Nations  auspices  is  also  sometimes  necessary, 
we must ensure that we do not create any imbalances 
in that regard.
To  bring  up  the  North-South  Commission  again, 
its  report  included  the  impressive  finding  that,  at  the 
time  it  appeared,  a  half-day  of  the  world’s  military 
expenditure would have sufficed to finance the entire 
malaria  eradication  programme.  I  suspect  that  today 
we would not even need that much. The world’s current 
annual spending on weapons is just under $1.7 trillion. 
To  achieve  Sustainable  Development  Goal  1  and 
thereby eradicate extreme poverty in the world by 2030, 
we  would  need  only  10  per  cent  of  that.  Sustainable 
Development Goal 4, on education, would require even 
less per year. With that in mind, Germany has tripled 
its funding for civilian peacebuilding measures in the 
past few years.
Thankfully, progress has been made in some areas, 
for example in Iraq. We must work fast to consolidate 
the  successes  achieved  there  in  combating  the  so-
called  Islamic  State  by  initiating  reconstruction  and 
stabilization  measures  in  the  cities  and  regions  that 
have  been  liberated.  Germany  has  therefore  decided 
to  make  an  additional  €250  million  available  for  the 
reconstruction of Mosul. We cannot abandon the victims 
of  the  thugs  of  the  Islamic  State.  We  must  help  them 
return to their country. It is also important to strengthen 
a democratic and inclusive Iraqi State and ensure that 
the  actions  of  an  individual  region  do  not  leave  it 
exposed  to  a  relapse  into  destabilization  or  civil  war. 
We can only ask the Kurdistan Regional Government 
in northern Iraq not to trigger any new conflicts, which 
are the very last thing that the country needs.
We  also  have  to  make  progress  in  the  Ukraine 
conflict.  The  Minsk  agreements,  which  Germany 
played  a  key  role  in  drafting,  provide  a  clear  road 
map for peace, based on the principles of the peaceful 
settlement of disputes and the inviolability of borders. 
If proposals are now put forward for deploying a United 
Nations peacekeeping mission involving Blue Helmets, 
I  think  we  should  pursue  that  idea  resolutely.  While 
there is certainly not yet sufficient consensus on what 
such a mission should look like, the idea is worth testing 
if it can help achieve a ceasefire and the withdrawal of 
heavy weapons from the conflict zone. We would like 
to ask the Secretary-General to press for the proposal 
to be realized.
The  North-South  Commission  pointed  out  that 
focusing solely on questions of war and peace was not 
enough.  Those  issues  are  also  inextricably  linked  to 
the fair distribution of resources and to economic and 
social  development  and  respect  for  universal  human 
22/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
rights.  Only  a  world  in  which  solidarity  prevails  will 
ultimately  bring  us  security  and  stability.  The  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  shows  that  the 
international community sees that as a common interest. 
If we want to make a reality of major ambitions such 
as  peace,  security  and  justice,  we  need  stronger  joint 
international  institutions,  and  especially  a  stronger 
United Nations.
The founders of the United Nations were not naive. 
They  had  experienced  the  horrors  of  the  first  half 
of  the  twentieth  century.  For  that  very  reason,  they 
bequeathed  to  us  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
with  its  timeless  principles  and  maxims.  But  while 
the principles of the United Nations are not outdated, 
the Organization has to adapt to the challenges of our 
times.  We  therefore  support  the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts  to  push  ahead  with  bold  reforms  within  the 
United  Nations.  He  is  setting  the  right  priorities.  The 
success  of  United  Nations  reform  is  largely  up  to 
us,  the  Member  States.  We  have  to  work  together  to 
ensure  that  the  United  Nations  is  more  efficient  and 
has  greater  clout.  In  my  view,  reform  efforts  should 
not  focus  primarily  on  budget  cuts.  On  the  contrary, 
the United Nations will need more resources if it is to 
fulfil its mandate. We must therefore provide it with the 
means  it  needs  to  be  successful.  However,  at  present 
the  figures  tell  a  different  story.  The  World  Food 
Programme currently receives less than 50 per cent of 
the  funding  it  needs  to  combat  hunger  crises  around 
the  world.  Today  a  mere  15  per  cent  of  contributions 
to  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  are 
voluntary,  non-tied  payments,  although  in  2011  they 
were  still  at  50  per  cent.  The  same  is  true  for  other 
United  Nations  aid  programmes,  and  sometimes  the 
outlook is even bleaker.
It  should  not  be  the  job  of  those  in  positions  of 
responsibility at the United Nations to spend more time 
sending begging letters seeking the necessary funding 
than in organizing effective assistance. We must change 
course  and  grant  the  United  Nations  more  freedom 
with  resources  in  exchange  for  greater  transparency 
in  its  use  of  funds.  Germany  at  any  rate  intends  to 
maintain  its  financial  support  for  the  United  Nations. 
As  the  country  that  is  the  fourth-largest  provider  of 
assessed  contributions  to  the  United  Nations  and  that 
goes far beyond that, being one of the biggest donors 
of global humanitarian assistance generally, our input 
is substantial.
I believe that as Member States we should now take 
on another reform project that is long overdue. That is 
the composition of the Security Council, which should 
finally reflect the realities of the twenty-first-century 
world. Today many more States than at the time of the 
establishment of the United Nations, more than 70 years 
ago,  are  shouldering  the  responsibility  for  peace  and 
security and are prepared to live up to that responsibility 
as Members of the Organization. Germany is ready and 
willing to take on additional responsibilities, which is 
why we are seeking a non-permanent seat on the Council 
for the 2019-2020 term. We have clear goals in mind. 
Peace and security, global justice and human rights are 
indivisibly linked. We are preparing for reform of the 
United Nations and its Security Council, and we intend 
to work in partnership with all countries of the United 
Nations in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Europe, for 
we can resolve global problems only if we refrain from 
focusing solely on national interests and instead work 
to reach a fair and peaceful balance of interests among 
all nations. Yes, that is an arduous process. But we must 
muster the courage to go down that path. For as Willy 
Brandt, who headed the North-South Commission after 
he  left  office  as  Chancellor,  once  said,  “We  firmly 
believe that problems created by men can also be solved 
by men”. Let us work on that together.
Mr.  Lavrov 
(spoke 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.
(Russian  Federation) 
in 
Russian):  In  December  of  last  year,  the  General 
Assembly adopted resolution 71/190, on the promotion 
of a democratic and equitable international order, which 
clearly stipulated the inadmissibility of interference in 
the  internal  affairs  of  States  and  of  coups  d’état  as  a 
method  of  transferring  power,  and  the  importance  of 
excluding  from  international  relations  certain  States’ 
efforts to exert unlawful pressure on others, including 
through  the  extraterritorial  application  of  national 
jurisdictions.  An  overwhelming  majority  of  Member 
States voted in favour of the resolution. The minority 
was  chiefly  represented  by  the  very  countries  that, 
contrary  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  are  attempting  to  dominate  world 
affairs and impose their own development models and 
values on other States and peoples, led by a one-sided 
logic that undermines international law.
But  the  world  is  not  standing  still.  We  were 
pleased  that  United  States  President  Donald  Trump 
17-29585
23/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
unequivocally stated from this rostrum the day before 
yesterday (see A/72/PV.3) that it is important to comply 
with  the  principles  of  sovereignty  in  international 
affairs and to lead by example rather than by imposing 
one’s  will  on  other  nations,  and  that  countries  with 
different values, cultures and aspirations can not only 
coexist but can work side by side on a basis of mutual 
respect.  I  believe  that  we  can  all  subscribe  to  those 
words, especially if United States foreign policy will in 
fact be conducted on that basis.
Russia  has  always  abided  by  the  principles  of 
sovereignty,  non-interference  in  the  affairs  of  other 
States,  the  equality  of  peoples  and  mutual  respect  in 
its international dealings, and it will continue to uphold 
them.  In  the  past  quarter  century,  despite  challenges, 
our country has taken on in good faith its share of the 
work  of  eliminating  the  legacy  of  the  Cold  War  and 
has  done  much  to  strengthen  trust  and  understanding 
in Europe, the Atlantic region and all over the world. 
However, that has not been reciprocated by our Western 
partners, intoxicated as they were by the illusion of the 
onset of the end of history, and who are still trying to 
adapt  rudimentary  institutions  designed  for  an  era  of 
bloc-versus-bloc  confrontation  to  today’s  realities. 
NATO  wants  to  recreate  the  climate  of  the  Cold  War 
and  refuses  to  implement  the  principle  it  solemnly 
declared in the 1990s — equal and indivisible security 
throughout the region of the Organization for Security 
and Cooperation in Europe.
The  West  has  built  its  policies  according  to  the 
principle  of  “he  who  is  not  with  us  is  against  us”, 
and  has  proceeded  with  the  heedless  expansion  of 
NATO eastwards, fomenting instability in post-Soviet 
geopolitics and inciting anti-Russian feeling. It is that 
policy that lies at the root of the protracted conflict in 
Ukraine.  Despite  the  efforts  of  the  Normandy  format 
and  the  Trilateral  Contact  Group,  the  authorities  in 
Kyiv  constantly  come  up  with  new  ploys  to  interfere 
with  the  implementation  of  their  commitments  under 
the  package  of  measures  outlined  in  the  Minsk 
agreements  of  12  February  2015  and  endorsed  by  the 
Security Council.
But even in those circumstances, Russia has been 
focused on constructive effort and on finding mutually 
acceptable ways to implement the Minsk agreements. In 
response to concerns that have been expressed about the 
current security situation, President Putin has launched 
an  initiative  to  establish  a  United  Nations  mission  to 
protect the OSCE observers in the Donbas region, and 
a  corresponding  draft  resolution  has  been  introduced 
in the Security Council. We believe Russia’s proposal 
will help to facilitate a settlement of the internal crisis 
in  Ukraine  that  resulted  from  the  anti-constitutional 
coup  led  by  ultra-radicals.  We  hope  for  constructive 
interaction on the issues with our European and United 
States partners, without zero-sum games.
Here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters,  we  should 
bear  in  mind  how  the  United  Nations  began.  The 
decisions  of  the  Nuremberg  Tribunal  were  a  warning 
against forgetting the lessons of the Second World War 
and  the  disastrous  consequences  of  attempts  to  take 
control of the world’s destiny by trampling on the lawful 
interests of other nations and peoples. It is disgusting 
to  use  concerns  about  freedom  of  expression  as  a 
pretext  for  condoning  radical  movements  that  preach 
neo-Nazi  ideology  and  support  the  glorification  of 
Nazis and their associates. We need constant vigilance 
to  maintain  a  secure  shield  against  neo-Nazism, 
revanchism, extremism and xenophobia and strengthen 
international and intercultural harmony.
and 
intolerance, 
Inciting  hatred 
terrorists, 
extremists and nationalists destroy and desecrate objects 
of  historical,  religious  and  cultural  value.  Civilized 
Europe  tolerates  the  demolition  of  monuments  to  the 
liberators  of  the  continent  and  heroes  of  the  Second 
World  War  whose  victory  was  the  foundation  for  the 
United Nations. We think this issue should be a priority 
for immediate attention from the General Assembly and 
UNESCO with a view to establishing a legal framework 
to  prevent  such  actions,  and  Russia  intends  to  submit 
proposals  for  it.  The  continuing  indifference  to  the 
shameful issue of statelessness that persists in Europe 
is also unacceptable, as is the suppression of minority 
languages,  which  is  a  gross  violation  of  Council  of 
Europe conventions.
History  has  shown  us  throughout  the  ages  that 
arriving  at  lasting  settlements  to  disputes  is  possible 
only through dialogue and finding a balance between 
the  conflicting  parties’  core  interests.  Unfortunately, 
outright  pressure  is  replacing  diplomacy  increasingly 
often in the arsenals of a number of Western countries. 
Imposing unilateral sanctions on top of those authorized 
by  the  Security  Council  is  an  illegitimate  act  that 
undermines the collective international effort. Today we 
have all been watching with alarm as the United States 
has imposed yet another set of restrictions — in fact, 
extraterritorial restrictions — on Iran, and threatening 
the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
24/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
Action, which has become a key factor in international 
and  regional  stability.  The  United  States  embargo  on 
Cuba, which has gone on for more than half a century, is 
a demonstration of the uselessness of policies involving 
unilateral  sanctions,  and  almost  every  Member  State 
has been calling for it to be lifted for decades. It is time 
to listen to them.
The spiralling confrontation around the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea is unraveling dangerously. 
We firmly condemn Pyongyang’s adventurist nuclear-
missile  manoeuvres,  which  violate  Security  Council 
resolutions.  But  whipping  up  military  hysteria  is  not 
only  a  blind  alley,  it  is  a  deadly  one.  It  goes  without 
saying  that  all  Security  Council  resolutions  must 
be  implemented  but,  along  with  sanctions,  they  all 
include  provisions  on  the  importance  of  resuming 
talks.  We  must  stop  blocking  those  provisions.  There 
is no alternative to the political and diplomatic route, 
based  on  a  dialogue  among  all  interested  parties,  for 
addressing  the  Korean  peninsula’s  nuclear  problem. 
We  urge  all  responsible  members  of  the  international 
community to support the Russian-Chinese road map, 
as  outlined  by  the  Foreign  Ministries  of  Russia  and 
China in a joint statement on 4 July.
Incitement  to  disorder  and  threats  of  violent 
intervention  in  the  cause  of  the  democratization  of 
Venezuela are unacceptable, as is any action aimed at 
undermining the legitimate Government of any country. 
In  any  internal  conflict,  the  international  community 
must encourage the parties to take the path of national 
reconciliation  and  compromise.  Efforts  to  ignore  the 
opinions of others and resort to decrees and ultimatums, 
or  to  use  force  to  circumvent  the  Charter  of  United 
Nations,  have  never  done  any  good.  The  explosion  of 
international  terrorism,  the  millions  of  refugees  and 
unprecedented waves of illegal migration are to a large 
degree the result of the attempts of the past few years 
to achieve regime change, including through the armed 
interventions that have wreaked havoc and destruction 
in the Middle East and North Africa and have paved the 
way for terrorists in parts of the world where they had 
never appeared before.
Despite  the  fact  that  the  Islamic  State  in  Iraq 
and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  is  pulling  back  in  Syria  and 
Iraq,  considerable  additional  effort  will  be  needed 
to  stabilize  the  region.  We  should  recall  that  we  are 
fighting  Al-Nusra  as  well  as  ISIL,  despite  the  fact 
that  for  some  reason  Al-Nusra  is  tolerated  by  United 
States  coalition  members.  Recent  developments  in 
Syria  have  given  grounds  for  cautious  optimism.  The 
sixth  international  meeting  on  Syria,  held  in  Astana 
on  14  and  15  September,  finalized  the  establishment 
of the four de-escalation zones, which had been agreed 
on  with  the  participation  of  Russia,  Iran,  Turkey,  the 
United  States,  Jordan  and  the  United  Nations,  with 
the  support  of  many  other  countries.  The  agreements 
create  the  conditions  for  further  progress  towards 
implementing Security Council resolution 2254 (2015) 
on the basis of direct dialogue between the Government 
and  the  opposition  aimed  at  uniting  their  efforts  to 
eliminate the terrorist epicentre as soon as possible and 
restoring peace and unity throughout the country, while 
resolving  its  acute  humanitarian  problems.  The  most 
urgent task is to increase the supplies of humanitarian 
aid and demining the liberated territories. We believe 
firmly that anyone who sincerely desires peace for Syria 
and  its  people  should  take  part  in  this  process  under 
the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations  and  without  any 
preconditions. The incidents where chemical weapons 
have been used in the region are a separate issue. Every 
case should be investigated honestly and professionally, 
with no attempts to manipulate the Organization for the 
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons-United Nations Joint 
Investigative Mechanism.
Finding  solutions  to  humanitarian  issues  and 
reconciling conflicting parties are also relevant issues 
for other crises in the region, including the situations 
in  Libya,  Yemen  and  Iraq.  In  all  of  those  situations, 
as  with  any  conflict,  Russia  is  pursuing  a  balanced 
policy and working with all parties without exception. 
With  regard  to  issues  in  the  Middle  East  and  North 
Africa, we cannot put United Nations decisions on the 
Palestinian  question  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  on 
the  backburner,  much  less  consign  them  to  oblivion. 
We  believe  that  restoring  Palestinian  unity  is  crucial 
and  welcome  Egypt’s  efforts  in  that  direction.  Russia 
is  ready  to  assist  in  every  possible  way  with  the 
resumption of direct talks between Israel and Palestine, 
and to cooperate with its partners in the Quartet and the 
Arab League of States for that purpose. As long as the 
Palestinian  question  goes  unresolved,  it  will  continue 
to be exploited by extremists, who are attracting ever 
more new recruits.
The  never-ending  bloody  terrorist  attacks  around 
the world illustrate the illusory nature of efforts to create 
isolated  safe  havens.  We  can  combat  extremism  and 
terrorism together, without double standards or hidden 
agendas,  only  based  on  the  primary  responsibility 
17-29585
25/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
of  States,  as  envisaged  in  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  We  welcome  the  reform 
of United Nations counter-terrorism activities that the 
Secretary-General  has  initiated,  which  the  General 
Assembly  has  endorsed.  We  see  the  appointment  of 
a  Russian  to  head  the  new  United  Nations  Office  of 
Counter-Terrorism as an acknowledgement of the role 
that Russia has played in combating this evil, and we 
thank everyone for their support.
Russia  is  committed  to  the  goal  of  achieving 
a  nuclear-weapon-free  world.  Under 
the  existing 
treaty  regimes  in  the  area  of  arms  control  and 
non-proliferation, the complete elimination of nuclear 
weapons  should  be  the  end  result  of  a  process  of 
universal  and  total  disarmament  that  continues  to 
ensure  equal  and  indivisible  security.  Attempts  to 
outlaw nuclear weapons that ignore current realities and 
all  the  factors  that  can  affect  strategic  stability  serve 
only  to  make  this  common  goal  further  off  than  ever 
and to undermine the consensus regimes of the Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
We urge everyone to say no to the militarization of 
the information space. We must work to stop it becoming 
an  arena  for  political  and  military  confrontation  and 
prevent  the  use  of  information  and  communications 
technologies  as  instruments  for  exerting  pressure, 
inflicting  economic  damage  and  spreading  terrorist 
and extremist propaganda. The United Nations should 
focus  its  efforts  on  formulating  rules  for  responsible 
behaviour  in  the  digital  sphere  that  can  meet  the 
security  interests  of  all  States.  Russia  has  drafted 
a  universal  convention  on  countering  cybercrime, 
including hacking, and we hope to launch discussions 
on it during the current session.
It is clear that in future the world will continue to 
confront  a  whole  range  of  new,  long-term  problems 
affecting  our  entire  civilization.  We  have  no  right  to 
waste  our  energy,  time  and  efforts  on  geopolitical 
games.  We  need  collective  approaches,  not  unilateral 
ones.  The  process  of  shaping  a  polycentric  world 
order is also a trend — a changing event that reflects 
the  redistribution  of  the  global  balance  of  power  and 
the  increasing  role  that  the  cultural  and  civilizational 
identity of peoples plays in it. All of us, including those 
who are used to telling the world what to do, will have 
to adapt to it. It is in our common interests not to try to 
restrain this natural process. We will have to work to 
ensure that the world order becomes fair and democratic, 
just  as  the  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations 
envisioned.  Globalization  should  unite  rather  than 
divide people, while taking account of the interests of 
all States without exception and contributing to a stable 
and  secure  future  for  all  humankind.  Without  mutual 
trust, we cannot hope for the effective implementation 
of the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals or the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change, or for solutions to 
global issues that are so crucial to developing countries, 
such as food security, demographics and health care.
The 
fundamental  principles  of 
international 
relations  should  include  the  recognition  of  political 
pluralism,  freedom  of  choice  and  the  rule  of  law.  We 
must  stop  relying  on  military  alliances  and  instead 
provide support and security guarantees to States that 
opt  for  neutrality.  On  the  economic  front,  we  must 
work  to  lower  barriers  to  trade  and  investment  and 
stop politicizing economic relations. The International 
Olympic  Movement,  and  sports  in  general,  should 
remain  outside  politics.  First  and  foremost,  we  must 
foster  in  young  people  respect  for  the  cultural  and 
civilizational  diversity  of  today’s  world.  We  invite 
everybody  to  the  nineteenth  World  Festival  of  Youth 
and  Students,  which  my  country  will  host  in  Sochi 
less than a month from now. Another important event 
will  take  place  in  Russia  at  the  same  time,  when  St. 
Petersburg  convenes  the  137th  Inter-Parliamentary 
Union Assembly, at which the main topic for discussion 
will be “Promoting cultural pluralism and peace through 
interfaith and inter-ethnic dialogue”. Let us encourage 
dialogue among various cultures and religions and stop 
using historical events to foment hatred and fear.
unity 
and 
philosophy 
harmonization  of 
interests 
underlies  President  Vladimir  Putin’s  proposal  for  a 
greater Eurasian partnership, open to all States of Asia 
and  Europe,  with  the  goal  of  creating  an  economic 
and  humanitarian  space  based  on  the  principle  of  the 
indivisibility  of  security.  It  goes  without  saying  that 
equal rights for all, individuals and States, would be a 
universal  requirement,  as  stated  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. Those just and equitable principles form 
the foundation for the activities of various organizations 
in  which  Russia  actively  participates,  including  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  the  Collective 
Security Treaty Organization, the Eurasian Economic 
Union,  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  and 
the  BRICS  group  of  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China  and 
South  Africa.  We  also  continue  to  build  relations 
A 
coexistence, 
of 
countries’  different 
26/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
with  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  the 
African  Union,  the  Community  of  Latin  American 
and Caribbean States and other associations of Asian, 
African  and  Latin  American  countries.  Through 
our  joint  efforts  we  have  achieved  a  more  balanced 
approach  in  the  work  of  organizations  such  as  the 
Group of 20, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, 
the International Monetary Fund and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
We believe in the vitality of this Organization and 
would  like  the  Secretary-General  to  play  an  active 
role  in  facilitating  the  full  realization  of  its  potential 
based on the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations,  while  respecting  the  prerogatives 
of  its  intergovernmental  bodies.  Peacekeeping  reform 
in  particular  requires  a  carefully  tailored  approach, 
without  abrupt  shifts  or  abandoning  decades  of 
invaluable accumulated experience.
Two  thousand  years  ago,  the  Roman  philosopher 
Seneca  wrote,  “We  are  born  to  live  together”.  The 
founding fathers of the United Nations understood that 
better than anyone. They believed — and enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations — that our God-given 
existence on a single planet should compel all of us to 
unite in order to prevent the scourge of new wars. If we 
are to do that today, we badly need to revive the culture 
of diplomacy and dialogue and the quest for a balance 
of  our  interests,  rather  than  making  rash,  instinctive 
decisions in our desire to punish those who disobey us. 
What  this  is  really  about  is  preserving  humankind  in 
all its richness and diversity. Russia has always been, 
and always will be, open to working together with all 
those  who  show  that  they  are  ready  to  meet  halfway 
and cooperate on a basis of equality and mutual respect. 
We will continue to uphold those principles in the work 
of  the  United  Nations  in  the  interests  of  improving 
global  governance  and  genuinely  democratizating 
international relations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Wang  Yi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.
Mr.  Wang  Yi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
theme of the General Assembly at this year’s session, 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”, is highly relevant, 
especially  for  an  Organization  that  has  made  an 
exceptional  contribution  to  peace  and  development. 
The United Nations has upheld its mission to support 
world  peace  by  setting  up  a  collective  security 
mechanism, defusing regional hotspots and deploying 
peacekeepers.  It  has  been  instrumental  in  preventing 
full-scale wars and securing more than seven decades 
of  relative  peace  for  humankind.  It  has  pursued  its 
goals for development by setting a global development 
agenda  and  mobilizing  resources  worldwide.  The 
United Nations has helped many developing countries 
onto  a  fast  track  to  development,  leading  billions  of 
people to modernization.
information 
But since the ideals of the United Nations have not 
yet been fully realized, countries must persist in their 
efforts. We live in an era defined by deepening trends 
towards  a  multipolar  world,  the  collective  emergence 
of  emerging  markets  and  developing  countries, 
steady  progress  in  globalization  and  the  application 
of 
technology,  and  an  exciting  new 
phase  in  the  scientific  and  technological  revolution. 
In  humankind’s  pursuit  of  greater  development  and 
prosperity,  we  see  opportunities  as  never  before.  We 
are  also  living  in  a  world  that  is  witnessing  profound 
changes in the international landscape and the balance 
of  power.  We  see  major  threats,  traditional  and 
non-traditional,  inadequate  drivers  of  global  growth 
and an increasing backlash against globalization. In our 
pursuit  of  lasting  peace  and  sustainable  development 
we  are  encountering  unprecedented  challenges.  We 
are  once  again  at  a  crossroads,  so  it  is  time  to  make 
the right choices between peace and war, openness and 
isolation, unity and division.
Two  years  ago,  from  this  rostrum,  Xi  Jinping, 
President  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,  called 
on  us  to  foster  a  new  form  of  international  relations, 
based on win-win cooperation, with a view to building 
community  and  a  shared  future  for  humankind  (see 
A/70/PV.13).  President  Xi’s  vision  is  a  great  one, 
reflecting  his  firm  grasp  of  the  prevailing  trends  of 
our  times.  It  is  also  China’s  answer  to  the  question 
of  the  kind  of  future  that  humankind  should  build, 
and it is fully aligned with the purposes of the United 
Nations and the aspirations of its Member States. With 
the  understanding  and  support  of  the  international 
community, it can inspire us as a common goal.
To  ensure  peace,  development  and  dignity  for 
all, we must embrace the spirit of the United Nations 
and move its work forward. The United Nations must 
continue to be the guardian of world peace, since the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  is  one  of  the  core 
purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
17-29585
27/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
the  primary  mission  of  the  Organization.  The  United 
Nations  must  encourage  its  members  to  live  together 
in peace, as good neighbours, and to work to achieve 
shared,  comprehensive,  cooperative  and  sustainable 
security. The five permanent members of the Security 
Council  must  play  an  exemplary  role  in  rejecting 
conflict and confrontation in favour of mutual respect 
and  win-win  cooperation.  All  Member  States  should 
treat  one  another  as  equals,  choosing  dialogue  over 
confrontation  and  partnerships  over  alliances  in  their 
relations.  Credibility  and  justice  must  be  upheld  and 
efforts must be made to find common ground, manage 
differences  and  work  to  settle  disputes  peacefully 
and reasonably.
We need a holistic approach to fighting terrorism. 
We  must  abide  by  the  rule  of  law  and  avoid  applying 
double  standards.  Terrorism  should  not  be  associated 
with  any  particular  ethnic  group  or  religion,  and  the 
United  Nations  should  lead  and  coordinate  efforts  to 
build a global united front against it. Political solutions 
are  the  fundamental  answer  to  hotspot  issues.  The 
parties to any conflict must stay committed to dialogue 
and  negotiation,  and  the  international  community 
should  work  objectively  and  impartially  to  facilitate 
dialogue  and  promote  peace,  rather  than  stirring 
up  trouble  and  making  things  more  difficult.  The 
United  Nations  should  serve  as  the  main  channel  for 
conflict  prevention,  make  full  use  of  Chapter  VI  of 
the Charter of the United Nations and step up political 
mediation efforts.
We  are  seeing  some  light  on  the  horizon  for  a 
political settlement of the Syrian crisis. We should make 
good use of the Geneva and Astana channels and exert 
greater  pressure  for  direct  substantive  talks  between 
the Syrian Government and opposition. Alongside the 
talks,  efforts  must  be  made  to  achieve  a  cessation  of 
hostilities, increase humanitarian assistance and launch 
post-war reconstruction in order to give people greater 
faith in peace talks.
The  Palestinian  question  has  been  bogged  down 
on  the  United  Nations  agenda  for  70  years,  and  the 
international community owes the Palestinians a long-
overdue and just solution. All settlement activities in the 
occupied  territories  and  all  violence  against  civilians 
must  end  immediately.  Concerted  efforts  should  be 
made to advance a political resolution based on a two-
State solution and to restart the peace talks as soon as 
possible. We must think out of the box with a view to 
facilitating peace through development and helping the 
people of the region to lay the groundwork for peace.
The  situation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  now  a 
focus  of  international  attention.  Two  days  ago,  on 
19 September, we marked the twelfth anniversary of the 
2005 joint statement of the Six-Party Talks. At the time, 
the  six  parties  —  China,  as  Chair,  the  United  States, 
Russia,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  and  Japan  —  made  concerted 
efforts,  and  the  United  States  and  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  the  two  major  parties 
involved,  made  political  decisions.  We  formulated  a 
road map for the denuclearization of the peninsula. The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  undertook  to 
abandon its nuclear programmes, and the United States 
to normalize its relations with the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea. All the parties committed to setting 
up  a  permanent  peace  mechanism  for  the  peninsula. 
The  joint  statement  opened  new  vistas  for  regional 
peace  and  stability  and  inspired  hope  for  a  peaceful 
settlement to the dispute.
Twelve  years  have  passed.  Some  may  think  that 
the situation on the peninsula has changed and that the 
joint  statement  has  become  outdated,  but  we  believe 
that things that follow progressive trends of the times 
are never outdated, and that decisions on the right side 
of  history  never  become  obsolete.  If  there  has  been 
any  change,  and  if  there  is  anything  we  need  now,  it 
is  still  denuclearization,  but  denuclearization  that  is 
more comprehensive, thorough and irreversible. There 
should be no new nuclear-weapon State, whether in the 
north or south of the peninsula, in North-East Asia or 
anywhere  else  in  the  world.  We  urge  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea not to continue along this 
dangerous path. We call on the United States to honour 
its formal commitment and on all the parties to play a 
constructive role in easing tensions. There is still hope 
for peace, and we must not give up. Negotiation is the 
only  way  out  and  deserves  every  effort.  The  parties 
should  meet  halfway  by  addressing  one  another’s 
legitimate concerns. In China’s view, the day when the 
denuclearization  of  the  peninsula  is  achieved  should 
also be the day when a peace mechanism is established. 
China  has  always  been  a  force  for  peace.  We  have 
worked tirelessly for a peaceful settlement of the nuclear 
issue  on  the  peninsula.  Whatever  changes  happen, 
however  long  it  takes  and  whatever  the  difficulties 
we  may  face,  China  will  stay  firmly  committed  to 
28/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
the denuclearization of the peninsula, to dialogue and 
negotiations and to regional peace and stability.
The  United  Nations  must  remain  a  champion  of 
international development. The implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development should be its 
top priority in the field of development. It is important 
to encourage Member States to seek complementarity 
between  the  Agenda  and  their  own  development 
strategies, to eliminate hunger and poverty and to leave 
no one behind. We must ensure equitable, inclusive and 
quality  education  and  lifelong  learning  opportunities 
for  all.  We  should  enhance  the  role  of  North-South 
cooperation  as  the  main  channel  for  international 
development and cooperation, while leveraging South-
South  and  tripartite  cooperation.  Climate  change 
is  a  major  factor  to  consider  where  the  sustainable 
development  of  humankind  is  concerned.  It  will  be 
crucial  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  continues 
to  work  on  the  follow-up  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change  and  to  urge  all  parties  to  uphold  the 
principles of common but differentiated responsibilities, 
equitability, and respective capabilities, and to reinforce 
international cooperation on climate issues.
The  problem  of  refugees  is  a  result  of  regional 
instability  and  uneven  development.  The  United 
Nations  must  respond  to  crises  promptly  through  its 
humanitarian  efforts.  We  must  work  to  address  the 
root causes of such problems by helping countries and 
regions  to  achieve  development.  Restoring  the  global 
economy to full recovery and growth continues to be 
an uphill task. The United Nations should promote the 
facilitation  of  liberalized  trade  and  investment  and 
work to build an open world economy. We must seize 
the opportunities that the newest phase of the scientific 
revolution presents, stay committed to reform, pursue 
innovation-driven  development,  find  new  spaces  for 
development and foster a new development system.
The United Nations must continue to be a pacesetter 
in global governance. As an organization at the core of 
the contemporary international system, it can accurately 
reflect  the  state  of  affairs  in  global  governance.  It 
should  therefore  follow  current  trends  and  work  to 
make  international  relations  more  democratic,  rules-
based and equitable. Our Organization belongs to all of 
its 193 Member States, which are all equal, regardless 
of  their  size  and  wealth.  The  United  Nations  should 
therefore  promote  a  spirit  of  democracy  and  ensure 
that all countries enjoy equal rights and opportunities 
and  follow  the  same  rules  in  international  affairs, 
enabling  them  to  set  international  rules  together, 
run  global  affairs  together  and  share  in  development 
achievements  together.  At  the  same  time,  the  United 
Nations should also constantly improve its institutions 
and mechanisms in order to uphold the interests of the 
majority of countries and to keep abreast of the evolving 
international  landscape.  It  should  promote  the  equal 
and uniform application of international law and stress 
the importance of fully and faithfully implementing it. 
It should urge all parties to observe the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, fulfil 
their  responsibilities  and  obligations  and  keep  the 
foundations of international law and order intact.
Globalization  is  an  unstoppable  trend.  It  is  not  a 
choice between East and West. It should not follow the 
law of the jungle, much less a winner-take-all approach. 
The  United  Nations  should  uphold  the  principle  of 
extensive consultations, joint contributions and shared 
benefits,  and  work  to  make  economic  globalization 
more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all.
The  United  Nations  must  remain  a  facilitator  of 
exchanges among civilizations. It is the diversity of its 
civilizations  that  gives  our  global  village  its  vitality. 
We  should  raise  awareness  about  the  importance 
of  that  diversity  and  be  eager  to  respect,  protect  and 
promote it. Civilizations can complement one another 
as  they  seek  common  ground  and  make  progress 
together  through  exchanges  and  mutual  learning.  We 
should  encourage  our  various  civilizations,  cultures 
and countries to flourish together through interaction 
and healthy competition. UNESCO and the Alliance of 
Civilizations  have  a  large  role  to  play  in  that  regard. 
We  should  also  encourage  and  respect  the  efforts  of 
countries  to  choose  development  paths  that  suit  their 
national  conditions.  Countries  with  different  systems 
and paths should respect and learn from one another in 
order  to  make  progress  together.  The  United  Nations 
should serve as a platform for harmonious coexistence 
between  countries  with  different  systems  and  as  a 
bridge for dialogue and exchange.
China’s journey over the past five years has been a 
momentous one. Under the leadership of the eighteenth 
Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, 
with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, China has made 
remarkable  achievements  on  all  fronts,  and  socialism 
with  Chinese  characteristics  has  entered  a  new  and 
historic  stage.  As  we  looking  to  the  future,  China’s 
continuous  progress  will  bring  to  the  world  greater 
benefits of peace, development and governance. China 
17-29585
29/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
is an anchor of world peace. Maintaining the stability 
of a country with a population of more than 1.3 billion 
people  represents  an  enormous  contribution  to  world 
peace. Aggression has never been in Chinese genes, and 
acts of colonization or plunder are nowhere to found in 
our history. President Xi has solemnly pledged that no 
matter how advanced China’s development becomes, it 
will  never  seek  hegemony  or  to  expand  or  extend  its 
sphere of influence. China will always vote for peace 
in the Security Council.
innovation 
China is an engine for development and prosperity. 
The Belt and Road Forum for international cooperation 
that China successfully hosted last May has produced 
more  than  270  cooperation  deliverables.  China  wants 
to make the Belt and Road a road to peace, prosperity, 
openness  and 
that  connects  different 
civilizations.  This  project  of  the  century  will  offer  a 
new paradigm for efforts to promote world peace and 
development. It will also inject fresh impetus into the 
pursuit of the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.
Starting  next  year,  China  will  host  the  China 
International  Import  Expo,  make  even  greater  strides 
in its opening up and provide a new driving force for 
the global economy.
China  is  a  champion  of  multilateralism.  It  firmly 
upholds the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations; the sovereignty, independence and 
territorial  integrity  of  countries;  and  the  centrality  of 
the United Nations in international affairs. No matter 
how  the  international  landscape  may  change,  China 
will stay firmly committed to multilateralism and will 
shoulder the responsibilities assigned it by the United 
Nations and will fulfil its due obligations to the world.
The Communist Party of China will soon convene 
its  nineteenth  national  congress.  This  will  be  a  very 
important meeting held at a time when China is reaching 
a decisive stage in the completion of the building of a 
moderately prosperous society in all respects and a key 
phase  in  the  development  of  socialism  with  Chinese 
characteristics. It will open a new chapter in the pursuit 
of  the  Chinese  dream.  China  will  seek  to  realize  its 
own  dream  in  the  context  of  the  shared  aspirations 
of all peoples of the world and continue to contribute 
to  the  development  of  all  other  countries  through  its 
own progress. Let us work together for a better future 
for humankind.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish) : I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Luis Videgaray Caso, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the United Mexican States.
Mr. Videgaray Caso (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
I  am  addressing  the  General  Assembly  today  at  a 
difficult  and  painful  time  for  Mexicans.  Our  nation 
has been battered by Nature. In recent weeks, together 
with our sister nations of the Caribbean and the states 
of Florida and Texas, in the United States, we have been 
hit by tremendous natural disasters that have resulted 
in suffering, destruction and death.
The  worst  for  Mexico  was 
two  consecutive 
earthquakes in only 12 days, which have put to the test 
not only our readiness and infrastructure but our very 
humanity. The first earthquake left approximately 100 
people dead and 300,000 injured in the southern states 
of  Chiapas  and  Oaxaca.  The  second,  just  48  hours 
ago, so far has caused 273 deaths and the destruction 
of many houses, schools and bridges. It has left many 
people wounded in Mexico City and in the central part 
of Mexico.
In  the  face  of  these  natural  disasters,  today  more 
than ever I feel proud to be Mexican. Mexican society, 
united  and  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity,  has  taken  to  the 
streets  to  help  and  rescue  the  victims.  We  are  seeing 
young  people  rescuing  the  old,  children  rescuing 
their  parents,  homemakers  joining  rescue  brigades, 
neighbours collecting food, people opening their homes 
and  turning  them  into  shelters,  and  others  forming 
human chains to clear debris and save the lives of those 
who  are  still  trapped.  It  is  with  great  hope  that  we 
inform the Assembly that we have been able to pull 51 
people alive from collapsed buildings, and we hope to 
rescue many more.
At  this  difficult  time,  Mexicans  are  very  moved 
by the many speedy gestures of solidarity on the part 
of  the  international  community.  Friends  are  there  at 
difficult  times,  and  we  have  seen  with  great  emotion 
that  Mexico  has  true  friends  throughout  the  world. 
Their timely help can make the difference between life 
and death for many. So far, priority has been given to 
rescue activities, helping people trapped in the rubble 
to be able to see the light of day once again. We are also 
providing  immediate  medical  assistance  to  those  who 
need it urgently, and have joined together to feed and 
shelter all those who have lost their homes or are afraid 
to return to them.
30/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
Leading these efforts is a society resolved to move 
forward stronger than ever. We have had vital help in 
assisting  our  people  from  our  armed  forces  and  civil 
protection authorities. The rescuers have not rested in 
this task, and yet much remains to be done.
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Mexico, and on behalf of the President of all Mexicans, 
Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  let  me  wholeheartedly  express 
my  gratitude  for  the  innumerable  shows  of  sympathy 
and  support  that  we  have  received  from  throughout 
the world. This help shows us that to be in the United 
Nations  following  a  natural  disaster  means  being 
among one’s family. Today Mexico feels embraced and 
is relieved to see that the world has not abandoned us 
in  our  tragedy.  We  would  in  particular  like  to  thank 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  and  the  staff  of 
the  United  Nations  system  that  help  with  emergency 
situations by supporting urgent assistance efforts.
I  should  like  also  to  thank  the  many  countries 
that mobilized very quickly to send rescue teams and 
experts. This morning in Mexico City we woke up to 
the  presence  of  rescue  teams  from  Honduras  and  El 
Salvador, who were assigned to the Tlalpan area. Rescue 
teams from Israel were busy in Álvaro Obregón street; 
from  the  United  States,  in  Escocia  and  Edimburgo 
streets; and from Panama, in Queretaro and Medellín 
streets. Rescue teams have recently arrived from Spain, 
and in the next few hours we are expecting teams from 
Ecuador,  Japan,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica  and  Peru  and 
many  other  nations  that  have  offered  help,  which  we 
will definitely accept and avail ourselves of.
We  give  heartfelt  thanks  to  the  Governments  of 
those countries for their solidarity. The Mexican people 
will not forget it.
The  international  solidarity  that  is  on  display  in 
Mexico  does  not  mean  that  we  should  not  talk  about 
the challenges facing the world, which can be overcome 
successfully only through that same solidarity. One of 
those challenges is the growing lack of confidence in 
multilateralism.  In  the  past  decade,  the  international 
economy experienced the impacts of a severe financial 
crisis  in  the  more  developed  countries,  which  led  to 
a  sudden  rise  in  unemployment,  the  loss  of  savings 
and  a  drop  in  the  net  worth  of  millions  of  families; 
many  companies  also  went  bankrupt.  In  addition, 
thousands  of  jobs  are  gradually  disappearing  owing 
to  the  growing  use  of  robotics  in  certain  industries 
and  the  automatization  in  the  service  industry.  These 
factors have given rise to a wave of deep fear and social 
frustration, which have led to the rejection of an open 
world and of globalization.
Terrorism has also contributed to increasing fears 
of  the  outside  world  among  the  peoples  of  various 
regions. This wave of fear and rejection of globalization 
has reached the United Nations and other international 
organizations.  Today  we  hear  voices  questioning  the 
effectiveness of multilateralism in dealing with global 
challenges.  It  would  seem  today  that  the  community 
of  sovereign  States  is  dealing  with  a  false  dilemma: 
to persevere in cooperation and in building bridges of 
understanding or, on the contrary, to close borders and 
build walls based on fear. Mexico rejects that dilemma. 
Mexico has been, is and will remain a sovereign State 
with a deep multilateral vocation. No country, however 
powerful,  is  capable  of  responding  on  its  own  to  the 
enormous shared challenges of our time.
It  is  multilateralism  that  makes  the  difference 
between  an  international  system  of  States  that  are 
limited  to  mutual  coexistence  and  an  international 
society  in  which  sovereign  States  are  committed  to  a 
joint  and  responsible  coexistence  for  the  solution  of 
the  common  challenges.  The  commitment  of  States 
to  multilateralism  reduces  anarchic  tendencies  in  the 
international  system.  A  world  based  on  sovereignly 
accepted rules and procedures is in everyone’s interest, 
because  multilateralism  sets  acceptable  international 
parameters  within  which  sovereign  States  accept  to 
maintain their conduct.
The  achievements  of  multilateralism  in  recent 
years are many. The fight against climate change, the 
preservation of biodiversity, the regulation of the arms 
trade, the new paradigm of international drug control 
policy  and  the  response  to  natural  disasters  are  some 
examples of that. Today, Mexico is betting once again 
on  multilateralism  in  the  process  of  negotiating  the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration.
Today,  as  Mexico  confronts  a  tragedy,  Mexicans 
once  again  see  the  value  of  multilateralism  through 
the support provided by the United Nations Office for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA). 
We  recognize  the  value  of  being  part  of  an  authentic 
international  community.  In  minutes,  OCHA  helped 
us  to  identify  the  countries  that  had  the  capacities 
to  support  our  emergency.  In  that  moment  of  pain, 
multilateralism  and  the  United  Nations  showed  the 
Mexicans their most generous and practical face.
17-29585
31/33
A/72/PV.12 
21/09/2017
Few 
instruments  call 
for  solidarity  among 
human beings with the power of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development.  For  Mexico,  the  Agenda  is 
a  State  commitment.  In  that  regard,  we  established 
a  national  council,  headed  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic,  and  the  Federal  Government  will  prepare 
its budget and development plans based on the criteria 
contained in the Agenda. The 2030 Agenda should serve 
as a new focal point for the work of our Organization. 
We  must  channel  the  energies  of  the  United  Nations 
towards effectively seeking the prosperity of the people 
of the planet.
Mexico will always be in favour of peace and the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. Unfortunately, armed 
conflicts  continue  to  demand  the  involvement  of  the 
United  Nations.  That  is  why  Mexico  has  participated 
in United Nations peacekeeping operations since 2014. 
The successful case of the Final Agreement for Ending 
the Conflict and Building a Stable and Lasting Peace is 
a significant example. However, if the United Nations 
is  to  be  more  effective  in  that  task,  it  is  necessary  to 
strengthen  its  preventive  capacities,  focused  on  the 
individual,  the  promotion  of  development  and,  of 
course, respect for human rights.
The existence of nuclear weapons poses a threat to 
all humankind. In view of the persistence of the nuclear 
danger, the Government of Mexico signed the Treaty on 
the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  yesterday,  which 
the  executive  will  soon  submit  to  the  approval  of  the 
Senate of the Republic. At the same time, Mexico will 
support all Security Council resolutions against nuclear 
threats, and today we reiterate our full support for the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons in 
order to ensure its effective compliance.
We  unequivocally  condemn  all  terrorist  attacks, 
regardless of their motivation. That is why we support 
the  multilateral  initiatives  of  the  United  Nations, 
which, together with the efforts to eradicate terrorism, 
promote  tolerance  and  the  respect  for  human  rights. 
States  have  the  obligation  to  protect  and  promote 
human rights. However, women and girls suffer sexual 
violence,  exclusion,  marginalization,  discrimination 
and,  in  extreme  cases,  abominable  murders.  Mexico 
recognizes its obligation to redouble efforts to combat 
those  practices  and  punish  their  perpetrators.  States 
should be committed in solidarity to the empowerment 
of women and girls. Gender equality is a prerequisite 
for a world in which peace and development are truly 
sustainable, inclusive and lasting.
Mexico reaffirms its openness to the world. We are 
expanding and diversifying our political, economic and 
cooperative  links  with  all  regions,  including  Europe, 
Asia and the Pacific. Mexico and the Union Europe are 
about to complete the updating of their legal framework, 
which will have stronger instruments, based on shared 
values, such as the defence of multilateralism, to better 
face the global challenges of today together. In the same 
way,  we  are  strengthening  our  ties  with  China,  Japan 
and  the  Republic  of  Korea.  We  have  launched  trade 
negotiations  with  Australia,  New  Zealand,  Singapore 
and Israel, to mention just a few.
At  the  same  time,  we  are  determined  to  deepen 
our  ties  with  the  region  to  which  we  proudly  belong, 
Latin America and the Caribbean. The natural disaster 
that  Mexico  experienced  proves  that  solidarity  is  a 
critical value for the countries of our region. Mexico is 
standing and will continue to stand in solidarity with 
each and every one of the nations of Latin America and 
the Caribbean. We want to stand in solidarity with our 
brothers  from  El  Salvador,  Guatemala  and  Honduras 
in  their  ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen  the  security, 
stability and prosperity of their societies in the interest 
of increasing the safety and prosperity of their peoples. 
Mexico  also  wishes  to  stand  in  solidarity  with  our 
brothers  of  the  Caribbean,  who  are  facing  a  huge 
challenge in their reconstruction. Mexico has been and 
will continue to be present in that effort.
We want to stand in solidarity with the Venezuelan 
people, who are struggling to recover their democracy. 
We  will  maintain  our  solidarity  with  our  partners  of 
the  Pacific  Ocean  Alliance  —  Chile,  Colombia  and 
Peru  —  in  order  to  continue  promoting  innovation, 
trade  and  investment  in  our  countries.  We  want  to 
stand  in  solidarity  with  members  of  the  Southern 
Common  Market  —  Argentina,  Brazil,  Paraguay  and 
Uruguay  —  with  which  the  Pacific  Ocean  Alliance 
has  started  a  promising  process  of  rapprochement. 
We want to be in solidarity with our Cuban brothers, 
who  aspire  to  open  up  to  the  world  and  normalize 
their relations with all nations. Mexico is also a proud 
member of North America. As a sovereign and solidary 
nation,  we  believe  in  the  process  of  North  American 
integration  so  that  the  region  can  consolidate  itself 
as  the  most  competitive  in  the  world.  Mexico  aspires 
to  and  foresees  a  region  where  bridges  of  friendship 
and  cooperation  prevail,  along  with  the  principle  of 
shared responsibility in facing our common problems. 
Today,  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Mexico 
32/33 
17-29585
21/09/2017 
A/72/PV.12
reiterate from this rostrum their deep solidarity with all 
Mexicans living in the United States, regardless of their 
immigration status. The Government of Mexico has the 
moral and legal obligation to protect and support them. 
Through  our  consulates,  we  will  continue  to  support 
them, defend their rights and advocate for their causes. 
We  are  deeply  proud  of  them  and  their  contribution 
to  the  North  American  economy,  culture  and  society. 
We  are  particularly  proud  of  the  “dreamers”  and  will 
continue  to  strive  for  a  permanent  solution  to  their 
legal status.
With Canada and the United States, we are making 
progress  in  updating  the  North  American  Free  Trade 
Agreement.  We  are  participating  in  that  process  with 
absolute  seriousness.  Mexico  will  always  defend  its 
legitimate national interests in the conviction that it is 
possible to achieve a very positive result for all three 
countries.  We  know  that  the  world  is  focused  on  the 
outcome of those negotiations. We have an opportunity 
to  consolidate  a  more  prosperous,  more  competitive 
and more just North America.
In  the  present  moment  of  pain,  Mexicans  see 
the  value  of  a  more  supportive,  efficient,  effective, 
transparent  and  representative  United  Nations.  The 
Government  that  I  represent  supports  the  proposals 
of  Secretary-General  António  Guterres,  because  they 
are aimed at making the United Nations system a more 
effective and solidary Organization.
The message that I bring today is that Mexico will 
overcome the recent catastrophe and our nation will be 
stronger for it. Mexicans are a strong people. The people 
and the Government of Mexico are still standing. Today, 
Mexicans thank the world and the United Nations. We 
thank the United Nations agencies for being aware of 
us. We thank Governments for their sympathy, support 
and extraordinarily valuable help. We thank all for their 
solidarity. We thank the citizens of the world who are 
thinking of us today. We thank them for their prayers 
and good wishes and for standing with Mexicans, today 
and always.
The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m.
17-29585
33/33
