United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
15th plenary meeting
Friday, 22 September 2017, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by Mr. Paul Biya, President of the 
Republic of Cameroon
into 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Republic of Cameroon.
Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, President of the Republic of 
Cameroon, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Biya  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like 
to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  assuming  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. I am sure that your rich experience will 
serve us well in successfully steering our deliberations. 
You can count on the full cooperation of my delegation.
My  congratulations  also  go  to  Ambassador  Peter 
Тhomson,  your  predecessor  and  the  architect  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  on  his 
commendable record.
Lastly,  I  would  like,  once  again,  to  congratulate 
Mr.  António  Guterres  on  his  unanimous  election  as 
Secretary-General  of  our  Organization.  He  can  count 
on  the  continuing  support  of  Cameroon  as  he  carries 
out his important and complex tasks.
This  session  is  being  held  in  a  global  context  of 
multiple hotbeds of tension all over the world, in which  
terrorism  continues  to  claim  thousands  of  victims, 
human  activity  is  causing  climate  disruptions  and 
poverty is far from declining. But it is also taking place 
in parallel with laudable efforts aimed at implementing 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
is designed to ensure humankind’s development in such 
a way that no one will be left behind. That explains the 
full  relevance  of  this  general  debate  under  the  theme 
“Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for  peace  and  a  decent 
life for all on a sustainable planet”.
Our  debates,  especially  our  conclusions,  will  be 
a  litmus  test  of  our  commitment  to  the  ideals  of  the 
peoples of the United Nations, who, in the Preamble to 
the Charter, have stated their resolve to save succeeding 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  to  promote 
social progress and create better standards of living for 
all people. For Cameroon and most of our States, peace 
is the sine qua non for the survival of humankind and 
sustainable development. The peace we have continues 
to  be  dangerously  threatened,  notably  by  terrorism, 
conflicts,  poverty  and  climate  disruptions.  Today  we 
are  all,  I  would  say,  supplicants  for  peace,  and  such 
persistent threats are of enormous concern to all of us.
Today, no continent or country is spared the scourge 
of  terrorism,  whose  atrocities  have,  unfortunately, 
become part and parcel of our daily lives. Let me cite 
a few examples, In August 2017, attacks took place in 
Barcelona and Ouagadougou; in July 2016, a Baghdad 
bombing  left  292  dead;  in  October  2015,  the  crash  of 
a  Russian  Airbus  in  the  Sinai  left  224  dead;  a  March 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-29710 (E)
*1729710*
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
2015  attack  on  mosques  in  Sana’a  left  142  dead;  and 
in November 2015 attacks in Paris and Saint-Denis left 
130 dead.
Maiduguri, Kolofata and Fotokol are place names 
that  conjure  up  only  dead,  nameless  and  faceless 
bodies.  The  number  of  victims  of  the  Boko  Haram 
terrorist  sect  in  the  Lake  Chad  basin  is  estimated  to 
be 2,000. Cameroon and other neighbouring countries 
have  been  dealing  with  that  sect,  which  changes  its 
methods  and  tactics  daily,  and  we  appreciate  the 
support  of  our  partners  in  the  fight  against  such 
barbarism.  The  fight  against  Boko  Haram,  a  jihadist 
sect,  will  need  more  widespread  mobilization  if  we 
really want to stamp it out. It is killing our peoples, our 
communities, our independence and our democracy. It 
spells death for peace. In that regard, we look forward 
to the forthcoming visit to the Lake Chad region of the 
high-level  mission  led  by  the  Secretary-General  and 
mandated  by  the  Security  Council  under  resolution 
2349 (2017).
We  deplore  the  continuing  conflicts  in  Africa, 
Asia,  Latin  America  and  the  Middle  East,  which  are 
wreaking pain and hardship — so many dead, so many 
refugees  and  displaced  persons,  so  many  children 
wandering without a roof over their heads and facing 
uncertain,  even  shattered  futures.  Cameroon,  which 
has hosted and continues to host thousands of Central 
African and Nigerian refugees, understands the degree 
to  which  they  feel  hurt,  victimized  and  threatened  in 
their  very  existence.  Let  us  therefore  mobilize,  and 
through  our  policies,  behaviours  and  actions,  let  us 
refocus on people.
Peace  is  under  threat,  not  only  from  terrorism 
and  conflicts,  but  also  from  persistent  poverty.  The 
Security Council has rightly reiterated that poverty is 
a serious threat. Why, then, do we have such difficulty 
tackling it accordingly? The numerous declarations and 
resolutions,  the  various  United  Nations  development 
decades  and  the  plans  of  action  and  other  agendas 
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  have  not  really  been 
effective, and the result is clear. Poverty persists, and 
the gap between rich and poor countries is continues to 
widen. The situation has been aggravated by a decline 
in commodity prices.
Let us galvanize ourselves in a powerful surge of 
solidarity to roll back poverty. Let us match our words 
with our actions and thereby create the conditions for 
a  decent  life  for  our  peoples.  Let  us  therefore  focus 
on people.
We must, for present and future generations, save 
our planet. We therefore welcome the Paris Agreement 
on  Climate  Change,  which  Cameroon,  I  would  like 
to  point  out,  was  among  the  first  countries  to  sign 
and  ratify.  We  are  pleased  that  steps  are  being  taken 
to  implement  it  effectively.  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to emphasize the legitimate and unanimous 
desire  of  developing  countries.  As  we  all  know,  they 
pollute less and should therefore receive resources from 
the rich countries, which pollute more, to enable them 
to effectively promote the goals of the Paris Agreement 
at their level.
Africa  has  two  major  environmental  challenges. 
The  first  is  the  ongoing  forest  degradation  in  Central 
Africa.  Let  us  save  the  Congo  basin,  which  is  planet 
Earth’s second lung. Secondly, there is desertification, 
which is causing Lake Chad to disappear. That vast body 
of water, essential to the survival of communities and 
biodiversity, has already lost 90 per cent of its former 
surface area. Let us save Lake Chad and thereby help to 
preserve the planet for the greater good of humankind.
The quest for peace concerns all of us. All countries 
must  join  forces  to  achieve  peace.  Is  it  not  high  time 
then  for  the  voice  of  poor  countries,  especially  those 
of Africa, to be heard? Is it not high time that Africa’s 
message to the world was better taken into account? Is 
it not high time that we structured our Organization to 
give more weight to Africa’s voice within a revitalized 
General  Assembly  and  a  Security  Council  that  is 
more receptive and more even-handed to us? A world 
characterized  by  greater  solidarity  is  the  prerequisite 
for peace on Earth.
In  conclusion,  peace  is  our  most  precious  asset. 
Without  it,  we  cannot  undertake  sustainable  and 
effective  initiatives  in  the  interest  of  our  peoples, 
especially our young people. The theme of this debate 
aptly  reminds  us  of  the  commitment  of  the  founding 
fathers of the United Nations, that is, to save succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war and ensure a decent 
life for all, free from want, through cooperation. This 
debate urges us to renew our faith in the purposes and 
principles of the United Nations. Let us together take 
up the great challenge of world peace and development.
Once  again,  Cameroon,  as  it  did  from  this  very 
rostrum on 10 September 2000, urges the world to rally 
together  in  one  great  coalition  for  humankind,  which 
2/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
must restore to the centre of our policies. For its sake, let 
us secure peace and a decent life on a sustainable planet.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President,  Head  of  Government  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Immigration  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati.
Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration 
of  the  Republic  of  Kiribati,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Taneti  Maamau,  President,  Head 
of  Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Immigration of the Republic of Kiribati, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President  Maamau:  I  bring  warm  greetings 
from  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic 
of  Kiribati,  on  whose  behalf  I  am  very  honoured  and 
humbled  to  address  this  gathering.  In  our  traditional 
way and in the Lord’s name, I share with the General 
Assembly blessings and peace. May all be blessed.
As this is our new Secretary-General’s first general 
debate, I extend to him our heartfelt congratulations on 
his assumption of the leadership of our Organization, 
and  acknowledge  his  unwavering  commitment  to 
reforming the United Nations in order to make it more 
inclusive  and  responsive  to  the  contemporary  global 
realities facing its Member States.
I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  the  theme  you  have 
chosen  for  this  session.  It  serves  as  a  reminder  to  us 
of  two  of  the  great  wonders  of  creation:  our  people 
and our planet. They are giving rise, however, to great 
concern both for today and for tomorrow. People are the 
fundamental foundations of our families, our societies, 
our  nations  and  our  planet,  bound  together  by  strong 
human  values  and  a  strong  faith  in  God.  The  theme 
reminds  us  of  our  important  responsibility  as  leaders 
to ensure that human lives, human dignity and human 
values  must  prevail  over  dollar  value.  We  must  make 
sure  we  serve  and  deliver  on  our  main  objective  as  a 
global  family  to  provide  a  peaceful  and  secure  world 
without nuclear weapons and promote social progress, 
better living standards, human rights and dignity for all 
our citizens. We all want to live a happy life on a safe 
and sustainable planet.
As  leaders  of  our  sovereign  nations  we  are 
responsible for our people, who are at the heart of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Every year, 
we converge in this Hall from all corners of our planet 
to  represent  the  voices  of  our  people,  to  share  their 
triumphs and tribulations and to share our visions for 
them and for our planet. The voices we represent at this 
gathering are constant and dominated by messages of 
trials and challenges with varying degrees of urgency 
and intensity.
I  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating  you, 
Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session. 
You have an important responsibility to chart and lead 
the  course  of  our  work  during  this  session,  and  I  am 
confident  that,  under  your  able  leadership,  we  will 
achieve the goals and targets set for this session based 
on  the  theme  “Focusing  on  people:  striving  for  peace 
and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet”. Please 
be assured of our full support and cooperation.
In  recent  years  we  have  continued  to  witness 
human suffering around the world as a result of armed 
conflicts,  terrorism,  persecution,  corruption,  climate 
change  and  natural  disaster,  to  name  but  a  few.  Over 
the  past  few  weeks  we  also  have  witnessed,  through 
the media, heartbreaking news of the loss of lives and 
extensive  devastation  in  the  Caribbean,  Mexico  and 
the  United  States  caused  by  the  unprecedented  and 
continued onslaught of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Jose 
and Maria, as well as an earthquake.
I  join  others  in  commending  and  acknowledging 
with  gratitude  and  pride  the  marvellous  leadership 
of  your  predecessor  and  our  Pacific  brother,  His 
Excellency Ambassador Peter Thomson of Fiji.
While  they  have  not  been  as  widely  reported  as 
the  hurricanes  and  earthquakes  in  the  Americas,  the 
intense  typhoons  and  monsoons  in  Asia  have  also 
caused great human suffering and loss. On behalf of the 
17-29710
3/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
people and Government of Kiribati, I offer our heartfelt 
condolences and prayers to all victims of those natural 
tragedies as they try to rebuild their lives after the loss 
of their loved ones and their homes.
We deal with human suffering in countries affected 
by  rapid-onset  disasters,  but  we  must  not  forget  the 
plight  of  those  in  countries  such  as  Kiribati,  Tuvalu, 
the  Marshall  Islands,  the  Maldives  and  other  small 
island  developing  States,  who  continue  to  suffer  on  a 
daily  basis  from  the  impact  of  the  slow-onset  climate 
disaster.  It  may  not  be  capturing  the  attention  of  the 
global  community,  owing  to  its  slow  impact  and  to 
limited media attention, but it is causing great pain and 
suffering in our communities.
During this seventy-second session and in view of 
our theme, the United Nations should focus on the most 
vulnerable and underprivileged members of our global 
family, such as the least developed countries and small 
island  developing  States.  We  must  provide  them  with 
special attention and support so that they can achieve 
self-sufficiency  and  enjoy  decent  and  dignified  lives. 
We must make sure they are not left behind in our global 
journey  towards  achieving  the  global  development 
agenda. We must provide a platform on which they can 
participate  meaningfully  in  international  processes 
that affect their lives. We must make sure their voices 
are heard.
International  processes  and  systems  must  be 
simplified  and  streamlined  so  as  to  enable  enhanced 
participation  and  easy  access  to  global  resources  like 
the  Green  Climate  Fund.  Above  all  else,  human  lives 
and dignity must be protected. We must celebrate and 
build on the diversity of our people, our rich cultures 
and  values.  We  must  respect  each  other  and  work 
together  to  overcome  global  challenges  and  unlock 
global potential.
Like others, Kiribati looks forward to a day when 
we will have a different story to tell to our children and 
our children’s children — a story without heartbreaking 
human  suffering  and  loss;  a  story  of  success  and  joy. 
That story must start with the major transformation of 
our homes, our societies, our nations and our world but, 
most  importantly,  with  the  immediate  transformation 
of  our  hearts.  That  is  the  main  source  of  our 
global problems.
My  Government  is  embarking  on  an  ambitious 
transformative  20-year  vision  for  Kiribati  towards 
becoming  a  wealthy,  healthy  and  secure  nation  based 
on accelerated growth and strategic investment in our 
human, natural and cultural capital. Our priority sectors 
in the immediate term are fisheries and tourism, with an 
anticipated boost in our national income levels to help 
finance our development priorities. Our intervention is 
targeted at empowering our people at the household and 
community  levels.  They  are  the  foundation  on  which 
our  nation  is  based.  The  stronger  the  foundation,  the 
more resilient and more self-sufficient our nation can 
be. My Government has put in place income-generation 
programmes to boost household income levels in order 
to  address  poverty  and  hardship  in  our  society  and 
provide an opportunity for a decent and dignified life 
for our people.
Our Government’s policy is to serve and deliver to 
our people based on the principles of good governance 
and transparency. We have established a parliamentary 
select committee on anti-corruption. We have enacted 
a  leadership  code  and  put  in  place  the  necessary 
regulations  and  arrangements  for  the  establishment 
of  a  leadership  commission  next  year.  Before  I  left 
Kiribati  earlier  this  week,  I  launched  our  first-ever 
national  anti-corruption  strategy  covering  the  public 
sector,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society.  Nurturing 
and  developing  a  decent  life  for  all  requires  genuine 
and  inclusive  partnerships.  We  acknowledge  existing 
partnerships and look forward to establishing new ones.
We  cannot  talk  about  focusing  on  people  and 
creating a decent life for all if our United Nations family 
is incomplete or unbalanced. Every year, we pledge to 
consolidate  and  act  together  to  provide  a  better  life 
for our people, yet we choose to ignore the 23 million 
people in Taiwan and deprive them of the right to be part 
of this global family and to participate and contribute 
meaningfully  to  the  sustainable  development  agenda. 
We call for a reform programme that will see Taiwan 
included  in  our  global  family’s  efforts  and  drive  to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Our  planet  is  struggling  to  keep  up  with  our 
insatiable  greed  and  demands.  We  are  stretching  our 
planet’s capacity to dangerous limits. Continuing with 
unsustainable patterns of production and consumption 
will  undoubtedly  push  our  planet’s 
life-support 
system to the brink of collapse. The warning signs of 
unprecedented  natural  events,  bringing  despair  and 
havoc  in  their  wake,  should  serve  as  confirmation  of 
the poor health of our planet.
4/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
With  lessons  learned  from  the  damage  we  have 
caused  to  our  atmosphere,  we  must  ensure  that  we 
act  urgently  and  collectively  to  conserve  our  ocean 
so  that  we  do  not  repeat  the  same  mistake  we  made 
with  our  atmosphere.  I  am  encouraged  to  note  item 
77  on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  which 
proposes,  among  other  things,  the  formulation  of  an 
internationally  legally  binding  instrument  for  the 
management  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological 
diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
That  is  crucial  for  Kiribati  and  other  countries 
that  rely  heavily  on  revenue  from  fisheries.  A  single 
management  failure  in  any  such  fisheries  area,  or 
any  other  part  of  the  ocean,  could  have  devastating 
consequences,  not  just  for  the  fisheries  of  a  nearby 
exclusive economic zone but potentially for the fisheries 
of the entire ocean. Fishing revenue accounts for about 
80 per cent of our current budget. I cannot emphasize 
enough  the  impact  of  such  an  issue  on  the  ambitious 
vision by which, 20 years from now, Kiribati aspires to 
implement  a  self-reliance  strategy  to  harvest,  process 
and market its own tuna.
The  ocean  has  a  strong  connection  to  the  people 
and to peace and prosperity. Kiribati has played its part 
in  the  conservation  and  management  of  the  ocean  by 
declaring  11  per  cent  of  its  total  exclusive  economic 
zone  as  a  marine  protected  area,  a  non-commercial 
zone  and  a  world  heritage  entity  under  UNESCO, 
with  the  aim  of  enabling  the  re-stocking  of  fisheries 
resources  for  the  future.  We  have  also  declared  our 
entire  exclusive  economic  zone  a  shark  sanctuary. 
If  a  small,  resource-constrained  nation  like  mine  is 
willing  to  make  such  a  profound  sacrifice,  affecting 
its  own  economy  and  a  resource  for  the  entire  world 
that its people rely on every day for a living, this global 
family certainly has a far greater capacity to do more 
and  make  sacrifices  that  focus  on  people,  so  that  our 
children and their children can build a decent life in a 
sustainable environment.
In spite of all those challenges, we remain steadfast 
in  our  strong  development  aspirations  and  vision  for 
our  people.  We  need  swift  global  action  on  climate 
change and we require support to mitigate and alleviate 
the  suffering  of  our  people.  We  are  grateful  for  the 
support of all our development partners in our efforts to 
address the impact of climate change on our people in 
areas such as water and sanitation, coastal protection of 
our  water  resources,  our  critical  public  infrastructure 
and farmland.
Access  to  climate  financing  such  as  the  Green 
Climate  Fund  takes  too  long  to  process  and  disburse. 
The  longer  the  delay  in  delivering  that  much  needed 
financing for urgent adaptation, the greater the cost to 
our people and environment. We simply cannot afford 
to wait any longer. As part of my Government’s plan, 
Kiribati  Vision  20,  we  have  decided  to  take  charge 
of  our  fate  and  put  in  place  innovative  financing 
modalities. That will enable us to fast-track financing 
support  for  our  sustainable  development  agenda, 
especially  in  relation  to  climate  change  and  disaster 
risk management.
With the approval of Parliament, my Government 
is leveraging our sovereign wealth fund as collateral for 
concessional  debt  financing.  Ideally,  the  Government 
will be looking at concessional debt financing with an 
interest rate of 1 to 2 per cent, to be repaid when climate 
or adaptation financing is available. We are currently 
earning  about  a  6  per  cent  return  on  our  investment. 
That  is  a  move  beyond  traditional  and  conventional 
roles,  but  we  would  rather  take  the  initiative  to  drive 
our  own  aspirations  and  deliver  to  our  people,  than 
wait  for  financial  assistance  that  may  come  at  a 
moment  far  too  late.  The  fate  of  humankind  and  life 
must not be mortgaged to the bureaucratic processes of 
financial institutions.
In conclusion, as leaders of this global family, we 
have a moral responsibility to focus on the people we 
serve, strive for peace and a decent life for all and make 
sure the health of the planet is sustained so that it can 
continue  to  support  life.  In  our  quest  for  sustainable 
development,  we  often 
the  economic 
fundamentals  at  the  expense  of  human  values.  For  so 
long, our focus has been diverted from the very purpose 
of this global family to our individual fights and quest 
for  power,  dominance  and  greed.  In  the  process,  we 
fail to recognize that for some members of this global 
family, their priority is simply to survive and provide a 
decent life and future for their children.
focus  on 
The compassion and love that exist within all of us 
can easily transform our global challenges by focusing 
on the most vulnerable members of our global family. 
We contemplate how we can best find grand solutions, 
when  all  we  really  need  is  to  translate  the  meaning 
of family into what it stands for — love, compassion, 
respect,  understanding  and  kindness.  Those  are 
priceless  solutions  to  the  mounting  problems  that  we 
continue to battle.
17-29710
5/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
We come to this gathering to listen and converse, 
and let us do so with greater compassion, understanding, 
love,  respect  and  kindness.  As  the  saying  goes,  it  is 
never too late to start. Lastly, I share with those present, 
all our heart, love and traditional blessing: Te mauri, te 
raoi  ao  te  tabomoa,  which  means  “health,  peace  and 
prosperity to us all”. God bless all our people. God bless 
our  United  Nations  leaders  and  our  United  Nations 
family and God bless our shared home, our planet.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President, Head of Government and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Immigration  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Taneti Maamau, President, Head of Government 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Immigration 
of the Republic of Kiribati, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, 
President of the Central African Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the Central African Republic.
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, President of the 
Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I have the honour to welcome to the United Nations His 
Excellency Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, President 
of  the  Central  African  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly.
President  Touadera  (spoke  in  French):  I  should 
like to add my voice to those that have preceded me at 
this rostrum in order to extend to you, Mr. President, 
my  warmest  congratulations  on  your  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. We wish you every success in fulfilling 
your noble task.
I would also like to express my deep appreciation 
to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Peter  Thomson,  for  his 
tremendous work and outstanding achievements during 
his tenure. And I commend Secretary-General António 
Guterres for his actions since his arrival at the head of 
our shared Organization.
The General Assembly is meeting for its seventy-
second  session  at  a  time  when  our  planet  is  facing 
the  problem  of 
numerous  challenges, 
including 
international terrorism, that must be urgently addressed. 
Insecurity has taken root everywhere. Whether in the 
Middle East, Africa or Europe, international security is 
constantly under threat from terrorist groups of every 
stripe.  That  is  why  I  am  appealing  solemnly  to  the 
entire  international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts 
and pool its resources in order to eradicate this scourge.
Regarding  migration,  North  Africa  is  in  turmoil 
as it sees so many victims abandoned in the desert or 
disappearing at sea. The route across the Mediterranean 
frequently ends in disaster and continues to be a major 
challenge that we must tackle. Moreover, the problem 
of refugees has worsened in recent years and is now so 
serious that it is a priority concern of the international 
community that demands special attention.
Concerning  climate  change  and 
sustainable 
development, our planet continues to suffer the effects 
of  natural  phenomena  such  as  earthquakes,  floods, 
drought,  rapid  desertification  and  global  warming, 
which are real worries. To that end, I would remind us 
all,  as  signatories  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change,  that  we  should  honour  the  commitments 
made  at  the  twenty-first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change regarding the importance of pooling our efforts 
in order to preserve our shared environment.
With regard to United Nations reform, the Central 
African  Republic,  as  a  member  of  the  African  Union 
(AU),  supports  the  common  position  of  AU  member 
States,  as  adopted  by  the  Group  of  Eleven  Forum  in 
Malabo, on the need to enlarge the Security Council to 
include Africa.
Other  global  issues  are  the  respect  for  human 
rights, the rule of law and good governance, which are 
indispensable prerequisites for social welfare. I pledge 
that the Central African Republic will continue to make 
its  modest  contribution  to  our  joint  efforts  for  peace, 
security  and  sustainable  development,  to  which  we 
all aspire.
I  welcome  the  choice  of  theme  for  the  present 
session,  entitled  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving 
for  peace  and  a  decent  life  for  all  on  a  sustainable 
planet”, an appropriate reflection of the importance of 
humankind’s place in our Organization’s agenda and in 
line  with  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
adopted here in 2015 with the aim of reducing poverty 
by half by 2030.
6/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
Today, as part of its national reconstruction policy, 
the  Central  African  Republic’s  peacebuilding  and 
recovery programme puts its citizens, as human beings, 
at  the  heart  of  its  priorities.  With  the  support  of  our 
technical  and  financial  partners,  the  programme  has 
enabled  the  Government  to  establish  an  appropriate 
institutional  framework  for  the  conduct,  monitoring 
and evaluation of the SDGs, with particular emphasis 
on the objectives that have been identified as priorities.
Since  this  meeting  of  the  Assembly  offers  me  an 
opportunity to speak about the situation of the Central 
African  Republic,  let  me  say  a  few  words  about 
that.  At  the  Brussels  donor  conference  in  November 
2016, I  mentioned  the  dream  I  share  with  my  fellow 
countrymen  of  rebuilding  a  State  that  can  come  to 
terms with itself as a diverse and reconciled nation in 
a state of calm. Our plea led, as I have indicated, to an 
unprecedented display of international solidarity with 
the  Central  African  Republic  aimed  at  ensuring  the 
implementation  of  the  Central  African  peacebuilding 
and recovery programme.
In order to follow up on the plan’s implementation, 
we have reached an agreement that will serve as a new 
framework for mutual commitment between the Central 
African Republic and the international community. It is 
in  that  spirit  of  continuing  consultation  with  partners 
that  on  Tuesday,  19  September,  here  in  New  York,  I 
presented an account of the progress we have made in 
implementing our commitments to attaining the Central 
African peacebuilding and recovery programme.
To  touch  on  some  aspects  of  the  programme, 
with regard to our commitment to peace and security, 
the  Government  of  the  Central  African  Republic 
has  combined  its  resources  in  order  to  consolidate 
the  process  for  the  cessation  of  all  hostilities  in  the 
country.  Through  hard  work,  we  have  been  able  to 
secure the active and permanent participation of the 14 
armed groups involved in the work of our consultative 
follow-up committee on disarmament, demobilization, 
reintegration  and  repatriation  (DDRR)  in  the  national 
DDRR programme, and the committee held its seventh 
session on 3 and 4 August.
values  and  to  the  constitutional  principles  of  the 
Republic. Despite that significant progress, we deplore 
certain armed groups’ violations of their commitment 
to an immediate cessation of hostilities throughout the 
country,  and  my  Government  categorically  condemns 
the senseless violence that continues to darken the lives 
of innocent civilians.
In  order  to  galvanize  the  peace  process  into 
reaching  its  full  potential,  strengthen  the  coherence 
of  our  approach  and  unite  the  support  of  our  friends, 
we have worked to harmonize all the peace efforts in 
the Central African Republic, resulting in the adoption 
of a road map for peace and national reconciliation in 
the Central African Republic in Libreville on 17 July. 
We  welcome  that  major  progress,  which  marks  the 
unwavering commitment of our neighbours and of the 
African  Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  Central 
African States and the International Conference on the 
Great Lakes Region to the success of our untiring quest 
for peace.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
the very promising outcome of the first meeting of the 
facilitation panel of the African Initiative in Bangui on 
11  September.  Here,  before  the  Assembly,  I  reaffirm 
my  commitment  to  the  African  Initiative,  as  well 
as  to  ensuring  its  full  success  for  the  benefit  of  my 
fellow citizens, in line with the expectations we share 
with the friendly countries and organizations that are 
supporting  us.  At  this  stage,  it  is  the  sole  framework 
uniting  all  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  peace  and 
reconciliation  under  the  determined  leadership  of  the 
Central African Government.
Within  the  context  of  the  implementation  of 
the  disarmament,  demobilization,  repatriation  and 
reintegration programme, the work of the advisory and 
monitoring  committee  continues,  and  the  programme 
has gained steam with the pilot project that I launched 
on 30 August. Its first phase involves 40 ex-combatants 
from each of 13 of the 14 armed groups. We are making 
every  effort  to  ensure  that  the  pilot  programme’s 
success becomes a monument to our true commitment 
to peace, because our faith in peace is unshakable.
In our determined quest for peace, we accepted the 
assistance of the Community of Sant’Egidio, which led 
to the signing of the Political Agreement for Peace in the 
Central African Republic on 19 June. On that occasion 
all the armed groups had to reaffirm their commitment 
to the integrity of our national territory, to our shared 
At  the  same  time,  we  are  working  to  rebuild  a 
national,  representative,  professional  and  republican 
army  within  a  framework  of  security-sector  reform, 
informed  by  a  national  security  policy  based  on  a 
political  consensus  that  takes  threats  to  security  into 
account,  and  on  the  republican  values  and  principles 
17-29710
7/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
that  must  guide  the  State  in  its  sovereign  mission  to 
ensure security for all. In that spirit, the support offered 
by  the  European  Union  Military  Training  Mission  in 
the  Central  African  Republic  has  enabled  us  to  form 
two battalions ready for deployment, and friendly and 
brotherly countries have made a concrete demonstration 
of 
training  Central  African 
components in accordance with the relevant resolutions 
of the Security Council. In order to address the need to 
strengthen internal security, 500 police and gendarmes 
have been recruited with the help of the United Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
the Central African Republic (MINUSCA).
their  solidarity  by 
redeployment 
in 
The  Administration’s 
In the areas of justice and human rights, our efforts 
have focused on operationalizing the Special Criminal 
Court  and  training  prison  guards,  as  well  as  on 
improving our judicial and penitentiary infrastructure. 
My Government attaches great importance to national 
reconciliation,  but  that  cannot  be  achieved  without 
justice, which must address the many claims of victims.
the 
prefectures is also one of our biggest and most urgent 
priorities,  and  its  implementation  has  had  support 
from  the  international  community.  I  welcome  the 
redeployment of civil servants in the various districts 
of  the  country,  as  well  as  the  considerable  resources 
that  have  already  been  invested  in  restoring  public 
infrastructure.  With  the  continued  support  of  our 
friends and through the United Nations, the Government 
has  initiated  the  Bambari  pilot  project,  aimed  at 
signalling the restoration of State authority. With that 
new  momentum  in  redeploying  the  Administration 
throughout the territory, we are proceeding in stages so 
as to ensure that the approach is as inclusive as possible.
Regarding financial governance, the Government’s 
work  is  yielding  encouraging  results,  which  must  be 
pursued more vigorously, given that the country has yet 
to emerge fully from the acute crisis that tore it apart. 
Since  the  agreement  signed  with  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  in  June  2016,  several  measures  have 
been  implemented  to  increase  the  State’s  financial 
performance.  The  strengthening  of  public  financial 
management  mechanisms  has  been  reflected  in  the 
adoption of measures to rationalize parafiscal measures 
and  increase  transparency  so  as  better  to  cope  with 
revenue shortfalls. The outcome of the second review 
under  the  extended  credit-facility  management  issued 
by  the  International  Monetary  Fund  in  July  confirms 
that  we  have  definitely  embarked  on  a  path  of  good 
financial governance.
Economic  recovery  is  another  area  that  we  are 
giving  undivided  attention.  The  protracted  crisis  had 
a disastrous impact on production and has led to high 
poverty rates. The lack of economic opportunities and 
prospects have led some of my fellow citizens to join 
those  resorting  to  violence.  The  reconstruction  of  the 
Central  African  Republic  will  continue  to  elude  us 
as  long  as  production  continues  to  be  unpredictable, 
unregimented  and  completely  unregulated  by  the 
authorities.  Among  other  measures,  my  Government 
is  meanwhile  committed  to  building  up  its  DDRR 
programme so that all the energy that was previously 
channelled  into  negative  activity    can  be  reinvested 
more  profitably  in  the  service  of  the  nation  and  for 
community recovery. In that regard, the primary sector, 
agriculture and livestock are central to our efforts.
The  exploitation  of  natural  resources,  a  sector  in 
urgent need of attention, must be entirely controlled by 
the State. While we all know that the Central African 
Republic is overflowing with immense resources, they 
will continue to be empty words if we cannot harness 
those resources for a positive impact on the daily life of 
every one of my fellow citizens.
Despite  all  these  efforts  and  the  progress  that 
has  been  made,  we  must  not  ignore  the  humanitarian 
situation,  which  has  seriously  deteriorated  in  several 
parts  of  the  country  in  the  wake  of  a  resurgence 
of  violence,  whose  real  motive  continues  is  still  a 
rapacious and fierce competition for the illegal control 
and  exploitation  of  the  riches  that  lie  beneath  and  on 
the surface of the soil of the Central African Republic.
Some  2.4  million  people  are  estimated  to  be  in 
need  of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance.  We  are 
dealing with 600,000 internally displaced persons who 
must be supported and helped so that they can return to 
their homes and lead productive lives. On top of that, 
we estimate that 500,000 of our citizens are currently 
refugees  living  primarily  in  neighbouring  countries, 
and  we  must  make  every  effort  to  repatriate  them. 
The  humanitarian  crisis  we  are  experiencing  only 
compounds  the  complexity  of  the  political  situation, 
and we must work to remedy it.
With regard to future action, I would like to share 
with the Assembly our main areas of focus within the 
mutual engagement framework. On the issue of peace 
and  security,  I  want  to  concentrate  all  our  efforts  on 
8/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
ensuring  that  we  will  have  taken  significant  steps 
in  terms  of  dialogue  with  armed  groups  and  the 
implementation  of  the  national  DDRR  programme  by 
the end of this year, and I am firmly committed to that.
Nevertheless,  although  the  dialogue  in  this  area 
is  under  way,  it  is  a  fact  that  the  State  must  continue 
to  function  and  especially  to  ensure  the  safety  of  all 
citizens. In order for the Forces armées centrafricaines 
and  the  interior  security  forces  to  undertake  their 
redeployment  efforts,  they  must  be  able  to  take 
action. On behalf of the people of the Central African 
Republic,  I  therefore  solemnly  call  on  the  Security 
Council,  as  the  political  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
tasked with ensuring world peace, to deploy the means 
at  its  disposal,  including  relaxing  the  conditions 
governing the equipping of our republican defence and 
security forces so that they can contribute to the rapid 
restoration of peace and security in the Central African 
Republic  and  enable  us  to  consolidate  the  democratic 
achievements made thus far.
With  respect 
to  political,  administrative  and 
financial  governance,  we  are  going  to  strengthen  our 
dialogue with all national actors and provide political 
support  for  the  implementation  of  the  road  map  for 
peace  and  reconciliation  in  our  country.  Our  most 
ardent wish is to be able to conclude that dialogue in 
2017, so that the new year will have genuine prospects 
for  peace.  In  that  regard  I  call  on  the  African  Union, 
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States 
and  the  International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes 
Region to act swiftly and accelerate the deliberations of 
the facilitation panel. I will also commit to working in 
the area of justice and reconciliation. The preparations 
for  the  implementation  of  the  transitional  justice 
mechanism  should  enable  us  to  make  2018  a  year 
dedicated to the immense task of giving our citizens the 
opportunity to talk to one another in a candid way, help 
the truth emerge and decide to move forward towards a 
brighter future.
Mr.  Barros  Melet  (Chile),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In brief, that is our situation. That is the work that 
we are doing constantly to achieve peace, reconciliation 
and the reconstruction of the Central African Republic. 
I am fully committed to the success of efforts to bring 
about peace. However, Member States are undoubtedly 
aware  of  the  Central  African  Republic’s  limited 
capacity. Today, on top of our own weaknesses, we are 
worried  about  the  fact  that  even  MINUSCA’s  staff  is 
inadequate to the challenge of protecting our civilians. 
The heightened security threats linked to violence from 
armed groups mean that more must be done to ensure that 
the crisis does not spread. As I plead for the easement of 
the equipment restrictions on our army, I now also call 
on the international community to increase MINUSCA’s 
military component, given the huge territory that it has 
to cover. I also ask that its mandate, which will expire 
very soon, be reviewed and strengthened, so as to help 
the legitimate Government regain control of those areas 
that  have  natural  resources  sought  after  by  various 
groups beyond Government control.
I would like to express the gratitude of the Central 
African  people  to  the  brotherly  countries  that  have 
sent  peacekeepers  to  my  country.  I  pay  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  those  who  have  perished  in  carrying  out 
their  noble  and  dangerous  mission  of  peace.  I  wish 
every success for our deliberations and am grateful for 
the opportunity to speak about my country, the Central 
African Republic.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Central African Republic for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera, President of the 
Central  African  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Moldova
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Moldova.
Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf of the General Assembly, I have the honour to 
welcome to the United Nations Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Moldova, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Filip  (Republic  of  Moldova)  (spoke 
in 
Romanian;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
17-29710
9/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  warmly  congratulate 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election as President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session and to 
wish him success in fulfilling his important mandate.
My  thanks  also  go  to  his  predecessor  Mr.  Peter 
Thomson,  for  his  dedication  and  professionalism  in 
conducting the work of the previous session.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  words  of 
encouragement  and  support  to  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  António  Guterres.  I  am  confident  that  with  his 
competent leadership and the joint efforts of the Member 
States,  we  will  succeed  in  redefining  the  role  of  the 
United Nations and adjusting it to the requirements of 
the modern world.
Clearly,  all  of  us  gathered  in  this  great  Hall  are 
deeply  concerned  about  the  challenges  confronting 
the  international  community.  The  armed  conflicts  in 
the  Middle  East,  protracted  disputes,  terrorism  and 
violent extremism, and the affliction caused by poverty 
are only some of the problems undermining peace and 
sustainable  development.  We  are  equally  concerned 
about  the  excessive  accumulation  of  conventional 
weapons and the development of nuclear programmes. 
An  international  environment  marked  by  threats  to 
use force, including nuclear arms, greatly exacerbates 
people’s sense of insecurity and lack of trust.
The  devastating  natural  disasters  occurring 
with  increasing  frequency  in  a  warming  world  affect 
hundreds of millions of people, especially those living 
in  extreme  poverty.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to 
express  our  compassion  and  deep  condolences  to 
the  countries  and  the  families  affected  by  the  recent 
devastating  hurricanes,  as  well  as  by  the  earthquake 
in Mexico.
The statements by previous speakers show that we 
all have similar perceptions of global problems. Today 
more  than  ever,  we  need  the  joint  commitment  of  all 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  face  those 
challenges. In that context, I would like to reiterate my 
country’s full support for Secretary-General Guterres’s 
reform agenda, which puts renewed emphasis on conflict 
prevention, the repositioning of the development system 
and  reform  of  the  internal  management  of  the  United 
Nations  in  order  to  effectively  address  the  world’s 
major challenges.
in  a  complex  process  of  structural  reforms  aimed  at 
building  a  modern  society  based  on  the  European 
development model. Our efforts have concentrated on 
steadily  consolidating  the  rule  of  law  and  developing 
a  functioning  market  economy,  as  well  emphasizing 
a  prominent  social  dimension  and 
for 
human rights.
respect 
The  strategic  priorities  for  sectoral  development 
include,  first  of  all,  modernizing 
infrastructure, 
managing  resources  efficiently,  promoting  a  green 
economy  and  renewable  energy  and  applying  modern 
technologies in agriculture. We have also undertaken to 
reform the public administration and the public services, 
while  ensuring  gender  equality  and  the  promotion 
of  youth.  We  have  the  political  will  needed  to  fully 
implement  those  reforms,  and  in  that  endeavour  we 
will continue to rely on the support of our development 
partners,  particularly  the  European  Union  and  the 
United Nations.
The Republic of Moldova fully shares the view that 
the prevention and peaceful settlement of conflicts, in 
particular protracted ones, are indispensable conditions 
for  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. Considering the current lack of progress 
in  settling  protracted  conflicts,  there  should  be  more 
direct involvement on the part of the appropriate United 
Nations bodies. We believe that no conflict in the world 
should be ignored by the United Nations, irrespective 
of whether it is on the Security Council’s agenda or not.
We appreciate the fact that the General Assembly 
has  agreed  to  include  and  maintain  on  its  agenda  the 
item entitled “Protracted conflicts in the GUAM area 
and their implications for international peace, security 
and  development”.  Contrary  to  the  fears  of  some,  the 
General  Assembly’s  deliberations  on  that  item  do  not 
undermine the existing mechanisms for negotiating the 
settlement of conflicts in the area of the Organization 
for  Democracy  and  Economic  Development,  made  up 
of  Georgia,  Ukraine,  Azerbaijan  and  the  Republic  of 
Moldova (GUAM). On the contrary, it is the continued 
monitoring  of  the  situation  in  the  area,  together  with 
a  proactive  approach  by  the  United  Nations  when  its 
involvement  is  needed,  that  can  prevent  or  counter 
attempts  aimed  at  changing  the  political  borders  of 
some GUAM States through methods that have nothing 
to do with democracy and international law.
Since  signing  the  European  Union  Association 
Agreement  in  June  2014,  my  country  has  engaged 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the  Republic 
of  Moldova’s  deep  concern  about  the  ongoing  armed 
10/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
conflict in eastern Ukraine, which endangers peace and 
security in our region, and to once again reiterate our 
full  support  for  Ukraine’s  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integritye.
Since 1992, we have repeatedly referred from this 
rostrum to the unresolved conflict in the eastern part 
of the Republic of Moldova, which is also complicated 
by  the  illegal  stationing  of  foreign  military  forces  on 
our national territory. We have underlined that, unlike 
other,  similar  conflicts  in  the  post-Soviet  space,  the 
Transnistrian  conflict,  while  less  intricate,  could 
be  resolved  more  easily  if  all  the  parties  concerned 
displayed the necessary political will. In our case, there 
is  no  ethnic  or  religious  enmity,  and  the  populations 
on both banks of the Nistru River could live in peace 
and  mutual  understanding  within  a  reintegrated 
Moldovan State.
Despite our efforts over the past 25 years, including 
the  involvement  of  international  actors,  we  have  not 
succeeded  in  settling  this  political  conflict.  We  will 
continue  to  work  to  come  up  with  a  solution  in  the 
existing 5+2 settlement format. For us, it is extremely 
important that the solution be based on respect for the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  the  Republic 
of  Moldova,  while  providing  a  special  status  for  the 
Transnistrian  region,  as  stipulated  in  the  relevant 
documents  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
We firmly believe that the settlement process could 
be based on the transformation of the current trilateral 
peacekeeping  force,  which  also  includes  a  Russian 
contingent,  into  a  multinational  civilian  mission  with 
an international mandate. In that regard, I would like 
to  emphasize  that  the  trilateral  disengagement  force 
established in accordance with the Moldovan-Russian 
ceasefire agreement of 21 July 1992 fulfilled its remit 
long ago. That obsolete mechanism has become a factor 
in preserving the conflict and has failed to ensure the 
full demilitarization of the security zone and eliminate 
obstacles  to  the  free  movement  of  people,  goods 
and services.
Contrary to our expectations, the Russian Federation 
has  not  yet  withdrawn  its  military  forces  from  the 
territory  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  in  accordance 
with its international commitments as stipulated in the 
Moldovan-Russian  ceasefire  agreement  of  July  1992, 
the  Moldovan-Russian  agreement  of  October  1994 
and  in  the  relevant  OSCE  documents,  in  particular 
the political declaration adopted at the OSCE Istanbul 
Summit in 1999.
I  would  like  to  make  it  clear  that  those  military 
forces are distinct and should not be confused with the 
Russian  contingent  that  participates  in  the  trilateral 
peacekeeping force, which is operating on the basis of an 
ad hoc arrangement. The military exercises conducted 
regularly in the Transnistrian region by Russian troops, 
with the increased participation of paramilitary forces 
belonging to the separatist regime in Tiraspol, pose a 
continuing security threat to the Republic of Moldova. 
The  joint  military  drills  are  in  flagrant  violation  of 
express obligations stipulated in the Moldovan-Russian 
ceasefire agreement of 1992.
According to OSCE reports, the Operative Group of 
Russian Troops has stockpiled more than 21,000 metric 
tons  of  weapons  and  ammunition.  The  Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  neither  controls  nor 
supervises  those  weapons  and  munitions.  Due  to  the 
complete  lack  of  access  to  those  foreign-controlled 
stockpiles  —  some  of  which  may  pose  substantial 
environmental  danger  —  the  munitions’  technical 
condition  cannot  be  assessed  and  transfers  of  them 
within that territory or outside it cannot be monitored.
For  the  same  reasons,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
is  unable  to  fulfil  its  international  obligations  as  a 
State  party  under  various  international  disarmament 
conventions. Although they are located on the territory 
of  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  those  weapons  and 
munitions  are  not  under  its  jurisdiction  or  control. 
Taking  into  account  the  commitments  of  the  Russian 
Federation, the fundamental principles of international 
law  and  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
Republic of Moldova regarding its permanently neutral 
status  and  its  non-admission  of  the  deployment  of 
other  States’  military  troops  on  its  national  territory, 
we  firmly  reiterate  our  request  for  the  complete  and 
unconditional  withdrawal  of  the  so-called  Operative 
Group  of  Russian  Troops,  a  successor  to  the  former 
fourteenth  Soviet  army,  which  is  illegally  stationed 
on  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova.  In  that 
context, I should also invoke the declaration on 21 July 
by the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova that calls 
on  the  Russian  Federation  to  resume  and  finalize  the 
process of withdrawing its troops and munitions from 
the territory of the Republic of Moldova.
Mindful  that  the  United  Nations  has  the  primary 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
responsibility  for 
17-29710
11/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
security,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  in  accordance 
with  Article  11  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
requests  the  inclusion  on  the  agenda  of  the  seventy-
second  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  a  new 
item  entitled  “Withdrawal  of  foreign  military  forces 
from the territory of the Republic of Moldova.” In that 
regard,  I  respectfully  call  on  all  States  Members  of 
the United Nations to support that legitimate request, 
which  is  fully  compliant  with  the  principles  of  the 
Charter and represents the fundamental interests of the 
Republic of Moldova. We hope that the inclusion of that 
item on the General Assembly’s agenda and its further 
consideration by Member States in a constructive and 
non-politicized  manner,  will  constitute  an  important 
and  necessary  exercise  in  preventive  diplomacy,  in  a 
country and a region where the maintenance of peace 
and  security  is  persistently  undermined  by  a  lack  of 
dialogue  based  on  mutual  respect  and  respect  for  the 
fundamental principles of international law.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  for  the 
statement he has just made,
Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Belgium
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Belgium.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Charles 
Michel,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Belgium, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Michel  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  At 
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  support  to  the 
victims of the recent hurricanes as well as those of the 
earthquakes in Mexico. Such natural disasters brutally 
destroy  lives  and  dreams  and  bring  about  instability 
and insecurity. Above all, however, such tragedies are 
akin  to  a  warning  shot.  They  remind  us  of  the  utter 
urgency  of  the  need  to  work  together  against  global 
warming. In that regard, I would like to welcome and 
support  the  initiative  undertaken  by  French  President 
Emmanuel Macron in the wake of the Paris Agreement 
on Climate Change aimed at establishing a genuine and 
far-reaching compact for the environment.
Unquestionably,  we  can  no  longer  postpone  what 
we need to do today. For many countries, in particular 
the  island  States  in  the  Pacific,  the  Indian  Ocean 
and  the  Caribbean,  such  natural  phenomena  have  an 
immediate impact on their survival. We must bequeath 
our children a planet where they can live and breathe, 
enriched by biological diversity. Let us use the best of 
our intelligence and our ability to innovate in order to 
rise to that existential challenge.
We  all  want  a  better  world.  We  want  to  fight 
relentlessly  against  all  forms  of  injustice,  inequality 
and  discrimination,  whether  on  the  basis  of  skin 
colour,  religion,  gender,  culture  of  sexual  orientation. 
And  we  all  want  to  advance  universal  fundamental 
freedoms.  When  we  want  the  best  for  our  countries 
and  for  our  fellow  citizens,  there  can  be  no  question 
of  the  importance  of  the  freedom  of  the  press  and  of 
expression.  All  too  often,  elections  are  manipulated, 
justice  is  undermined,  corruption  is  widespread  and 
there is a purposeful lack of transparency. Both national 
and international institutions must guarantee personal 
freedoms and work constantly to achieve emancipation 
and greater dignity for all. Of course, sovereignty must 
be  fully  respected,  but  it  cannot  be  used  as  a  shield 
or an excuse for attempting to legitimize atrocities or 
force submission.
This is not a lecture on morals or about dictating, 
by  will  or  force,  a  ready-made  model  democracy. 
This  is  about  convincing  others,  through  steady  and 
constant dialogue, of the need to unreservedly defend 
our universal values on behalf of each and every human 
being,  no  matter  where  they  are  from  or  where  they 
are  going.  Diplomatic  ruptures  have  never  helped  to 
advance  universal  values,  and  abandoning  dialogue 
is  often  an  act  of  cowardice  that  also  abandons  those 
fighting for greater freedom in their country.
We  all  want  a  safer  world.  Peace,  security  and 
stability are the best ways to guarantee that we can all 
live our lives to the full, having enough to eat, having 
work, having a home and being able to send our children 
to school. Yet still today there are too many conflicts, 
wars and hatred tearing hopes and dreams apart.
No  continent  is  spared  the  scourge  of  terrorism. 
Fomenting hatred and spreading the poison of division 
is the grim goal of terrorists, whose senseless, barbaric 
12/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
acts of murder destroy families’ futures. None of us can 
remain indifferent to that, and my country is therefore 
participating,  with  others,  in  the  Global  Coalition 
against  Da’esh.  Military  forces  on  the  ground  have 
forced Da’esh to retreat in Iraq and Syria, and we are 
committed to supporting the countries that have been 
destroyed in their efforts to rebuild.
But  we  must  always  continue  the  fight  to  protect 
our  universal  values  of  freedom,  tolerance,  respect 
and  non-discrimination.  Our  desire  to  live  together 
in  harmony  despite  our  differences  and  with  respect 
for each other’s cultures and customs must prevail. In 
that  regard,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  wise  and  ever-
pertinent words of Gandhi, who said that if we answer 
hatred with hatred, we only spread it.
Another threat to world security is the uncontrolled 
proliferation  of  arms,  particularly  nuclear  weapons. 
While the world is in turmoil and there are numerous 
conflict zones, the most lasting and mutually beneficial 
solutions  will  always  be  political  and  diplomatic  in 
nature  rather  than  military.  The  agreement  concluded 
after  several  years  of 
intense  negotiations  with 
Iran  on  the  nuclear  issue  must  be  safeguarded  and 
implemented. My country has many major differences 
with Iran but the agreement is nonetheless a channel for 
dialogue  aimed  at  reducing  tensions  and  threats.  It  is 
an opportunity to agree on our goals and deal with our 
differences peacefully. Rejecting it without proposing 
any alternative seems neither wise nor desirable.
The situation in North Korea is also enlightening 
on  this  issue.  In  contrast  to  the  situation  with  Iran, 
here there was no continuous process of dialogue and 
negotiation. The result has been a dangerous escalation 
that  is  jeopardizing  peace  and  security.  We  condemn 
the  country’s  autocratic  and  provocative  regime,  but 
merely  condemning  it  is  not  enough.  We  should  all 
mobilize  in  order  to  prepare  the  ground  for  dialogue, 
including  invoking  the  responsibility  borne  by  such 
actors as China and Russia.
Economic development must serve social cohesion. 
Growth rates, even in double figures, are not necessarily 
a  guarantee  of  the  fair  and  equitable  distribution  of 
wealth. Capitalism is a means, nothing more or less, for 
serving social and economic development. We support 
free trade and we want an open global economy. The 
free  flow  of  goods,  services  and  knowledge  should 
promote shared development and progress. Sustainable 
development is not possible without development, and we 
cannot eradicate poverty without increasing prosperity. 
Free enterprise must be geared to the true economy, the 
production of good and services and job creation. We 
must  strengthen  the  middle  classes  everywhere.  This 
is  not  about  the  survival  of  the  fittest  or  having  the 
law of jungle imposed on us. It is about distinguishing 
between  investment  and  speculation.  Investment,  as 
opposed to financial speculation, is a responsible and 
virtuous  activity  that  benefits  society  as  a  whole  and 
stimulates innovation and progress.
Throughout  history,  freedom  of  movement  and 
free  trade  have  brought  people  closer  together.  Those 
principles  have  been  at  the  heart  of  the  European 
project  for  60  years.  The  European  Union  negotiates 
treaties  with  various  partners  all  over  the  world, 
including  Canada  and  Japan.  Those  treaties  include 
social and environmental provisions. That openness to 
the world, accompanied by rules and regulations, is the 
most  concrete  response  we  can  make  to  isolationism 
and  protectionism.  History  has  shown  us,  time  and 
again,  that  barriers  and  walls  between  peoples  are 
illusory — they always give way to our natural thirst 
for freedom, openness and innovation.
The 2030 Agenda defines an ambitious framework 
for  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
by  promoting  private  initiative,  strengthening  the 
rule  of  law,  encouraging  education  for  boys  and  girls 
alike,  developing  agriculture  and  building  on  good 
governance.  Those  actions  constitute  the  best  recipe 
for preventing conflict and creating a better, fairer and 
stronger world.
Countries in the South as well as the North are all 
concerned  with  the  issue  of  migration.  Belgium  is  a 
land that welcomes people seeking asylum and fleeing 
wars  and  persecution.  And  we  will  fight  the  faithless 
and  lawless  traffickers  who  put  women  and  children 
in makeshift boats to embark on a journey towards an 
all  too  often  tragic  outcome.  We  must  be  on  the  side 
of  those  who  suffer.  Development  in  the  countries  of 
origin is the key. We must invest in the least developed 
countries. We remain firmly committed to concluding 
a global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration 
by  2018.  We  advocate  for  a  comprehensive  approach 
that  facilitates  legal  migration  and  enables  people  to 
return to their countries of origin, while ensuring their 
individual security.
Multilateralism is a robust and reliable engine for 
building  a  better  world.  Coordination  and  consensus-
17-29710
13/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
building  are  required.  However,  the  essence  of  the 
United  Nations  is  sometimes  called  into  question. 
Globalization  generates  doubts  and 
fears.  Yet 
multilateralism does not cause such disruptions; on the 
contrary, it is frequently the best solution to them.
We must respect our independence, but at the same 
time we must also recognize our interdependence and 
uphold the virtues of concerted action. We must work 
tirelessly to build a consensus in which all nations, large 
and small, have their roles to play and, in that way, have 
a say. Belgium is fully behind the Secretary-General’s 
vision  for  reforming  the  Organization,  not  because 
reform is an end in itself, but because the world today 
demands more determined and results-oriented action.
Multilateralism is a complex task, with occasional 
obstacles and frequent frustrations. However, there are 
also successes of which we speak too little. In Colombia, 
for example, concerted action has put an end to one of 
the longest conflicts in the world. Multilateralism also 
requires  a  comprehensive,  inclusive  and  sustainable 
approach.  Prevention, 
and 
peacebuilding  must  be  seen  as  part  of  a  continuum. 
International  and  regional  consultation  must  also  be 
strengthened.  As  we  know,  when  regional  actors  and 
the United Nations are aligned and working together in 
the same direction, great things can happen.
resolution 
conflict 
In  the  Great  Lakes  region  of  Central  Africa,  the 
countries of the region have a decisive role to play. In 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  security 
situation  has  deteriorated  considerably  and 
the 
humanitarian crisis is worrying. But even as the debate 
on the cost of peacekeeping operations has begun, we 
cannot abandon the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
On the contrary, we must support it so that it can anchor 
itself  in  an  irreversible  democratic  process,  including 
by holding honest, transparent and inclusive elections. 
The destinies of Africa and Europe have always been 
linked.  Challenges  to  one  are  challenges  to  the  other, 
whether  we  are  talking  about  security,  migration  or 
even  development.  We  must  work  to  achieve  a  less 
complicated relationship, liberated from the demons of 
the past and functioning on a peer-to-peer level, while 
we look to the future.
In the Middle East, we continue to advocate for a 
two-State  solution  for  Israel  and  Palestine.  As  far  as 
Syria is concerned, that endless conflict can end only 
when the international community as a whole shows its 
political will and develops a genuine common strategy.
and 
impunity 
Combating 
strengthening 
international  justice  are  at  the  heart  of  Belgium’s 
priorities,  and  we  will  continue  to  work  for  them  An 
example of such efforts is the amendments to the Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court. We want to 
encourage cooperation among States in order to combat 
impunity for the most serious international crimes. In 
that regard, we call on all States that have not yet done 
so to support an initiative to launch the negotiation of a 
new treaty on mutual assistance and extradition.
Our  shared  goal  for  the  United  Nations  must  be 
working  every  day  to  build  an  efficient  Organization 
that serves the common interests of the Member States. 
The  key  to  success  lies  in  the  art  of  compromise  and 
the ability listen actively — and in having the strength 
of  conviction  to  bring  that  about.  My  country’s 
transparent and constructive attitude is reaping results 
that benefit everyone. Belgium is a land of compromise. 
It is in that spirit that we are currently a candidate for 
a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council.  Based 
on our international roots and experience, we are ready 
to  assume  the  responsibilities  of  building  consensus 
and acting for peace. As the philosopher Jean-Jacques 
Rousseau  said,  man  can  make  his  happiness  only 
by  working  for  that  of  others.  We  stand  ready  to  get 
to work.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Belgium  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr. Charles Michel, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Belgium, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Lyonchoen  Tshering  Tobgay, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan.
Mr. Lyonchoen Tshering Tobgay, Prime Minister of 
the Kingdom of Bhutan, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Lyonchoen  Tshering  Tobgay,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Tobgay (Bhutan): I bring warm greetings from 
His Majesty the Druk Gyalpo.
14/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
Today my thoughts are with the people of Mexico, 
who suffered two terrible earthquakes this month. My 
thoughts are also with the victims of the other natural 
disasters that have recently brought pain and misery to 
people  around  the  world  —  the  three  hurricanes  that 
battered communities in the Caribbean and the United 
States and the devastating floods in Bangladesh, India, 
Nepal and Sri Lanka that have taken more than 1,200 
lives. Please join me in observing a moment of silence 
to reflect on the suffering of those communities and to 
offer our prayers for their recovery.
The  disasters  I  just  referred  to  are  not  isolated 
incidents.  Experts  are  increasingly  convinced  that 
natural  disasters  like  hurricanes  and  floods  are  made 
worse by climate change. Climate change is a reality. 
Each  of  the  past  three  years  has  been  the  hottest  in 
recorded  history,  and  16  of  the  17  hottest  years  on 
record have all occurred in this new century. That must 
alarm us, for we are only in 2017. There is no room for 
complacency, hesitation or finger-pointing, excuses or 
procrastination. The urgency is now. Our well-being is 
at stake. The survival of future generations is at risk. 
The Paris Agreement on Climate Change is proof that 
we have accepted that climate change is a reality, and 
that we are willing to come together, to work together 
and to fight climate change together. I urge all countries 
to fulfil the promises they made in Paris.
As  a  landlocked,  mountainous  country,  we  are 
especially vulnerable to the effects of climate change. 
That is why we are particularly alarmed about unchecked 
environmental  degradation,  which  is  the  root  cause 
of  climate  change.  We  are  already  experiencing  flash 
floods,  glacial  lake  outbursts  and  severe  and  erratic 
weather  patterns,  whsoe  effects  can  be  particularly 
devastating for a poor country.
But we will not give up. We will take action. We 
have ratified the Paris Agreement and are well on our 
way  to  fulfilling  our  pledges.  A  total  of  72  per  cent 
of  our  country  is  under  forest  cover,  and  more  than 
half  of  it  is  protected  as  national  parkland,  wildlife 
sanctuaries or nature reserves. That means that we are 
the world’s only carbon-neutral country. In fact, we are 
a  carbon-negative  country.  In  addition,  we  generate 
and export clean renewable energy and invest in green 
industries and organic farming practices.
After centuries of neglect, fighting climate change 
is  complex  and  expensive.  That  is  why  it  is  critical 
to  ensure  that  all  countries  fulfil  their  respective 
that 
takes  money;  hence 
commitments.  But 
the 
importance of climate financing mechanisms. However, 
securing financing is one of the biggest challenges that 
smaller nations have, and the role of climate-financing 
institutions is therefore essential. We applaud the Global 
Environmental Facility (GEF) for financing more than 
4,000 environmental projects in 170 countries since its 
establishment  in  the  1990s.  The  Green  Climate  Fund 
(GCF)  has  also  begun  to  help  developing  countries 
around  the  world  respond  to  climate  change  through 
innovative  and  transformative  interventions.  Those 
institutions are critical for those who have the will but 
may  not  have  the  resources  to  take  action.  I  applaud 
the  innovative  strategies  and  interventions  that  they 
have supported.
For our part, in partnership with the World Wildlife 
Fund we have launched Bhutan for Life, an innovative 
financing mechanism that will help safeguard our rich 
biodiversity until our Government can assume the full 
cost of its protection.
Now is the time to scale up our support to the GEF 
and GCF. That will enable all countries to fight climate 
change on a war footing and help developing countries 
respond to its effects. I am optimistic that we will be 
able to prevent the worst effects of climate change. But 
for that we have to work together. While the threat of 
natural disasters will always remain, we can and must 
ensure  that  they  are  not  directly  linked  to  human-
induced activity.
that  more 
The  World  Bank  estimates 
than 
800  million  people  live  in  poverty.  For  them,  hunger, 
malnourishment and deprivation are everyday realities. 
And that reality — the scourge of poverty — silently 
kills  countless  millions  every  year.  I  ask  members  to 
please  join  me  in  observing  a  moment  of  silence  for 
the  millions  of  people  around  the  world,  particularly 
children,  who  are  suffering  or  dying  from  poverty 
and malnourishment.
Poverty has no place in this day and age. After all, 
this  era  —  our  era  —  is  blessed  with  unprecedented 
wealth, knowledge and technology, giving rise to levels 
of  prosperity  the  world  has  never  seen  before.  Yet 
millions are still condemned to a life of poverty. The 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are critical in 
that regard. They give us reason for hope. While every 
one of the 17 Goals will contribute to eradicating the 
scourge of poverty, our common resolve is articulated 
powerfully in the very first Goal of the SDGs, which 
17-29710
15/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
promises nothing less than to end poverty everywhere 
and in all its forms.
Eradicating  poverty,  like  dealing  with  climate 
change, is complex and expensive. But according to one 
estimate, it would take only $175 billion per year to end 
extreme poverty. That should come as good news, since 
it  is  barely  0.32  per  cent  of  the  current  global  gross 
domestic  product.  We  no  doubt  have  a  lot  of  work  to 
do, but the SDGs provide a realistic road map for this 
important task. However, there are no easy shortcuts.
In 
that  connection, 
the  Secretary-General’s 
reform  initiatives  will  ensure  that  the  United  Nations 
is  fit  for  purpose  and  able  to  respond  to  the  call  for 
transformation in order to bring about shared prosperity 
for all peoples of the world. I thank him for initiating 
such bold measures, and call on all Member States to 
give full support to the important reforms.
We 
in  Bhutan  are  blessed.  Our  enlightened 
monarchs  have  carefully  balanced  economic  growth 
with social development, environmental sustainability 
and  cultural  preservation,  all  within  a  framework 
of  good  governance.  We  call  this  holistic  approach 
to  development  Gross  National  Happiness,  a  unique 
philosophy  that  guarantees  all  of  our  citizens  free 
education  and  free  health  care,  while  providing 
additional targeted interventions for the poor.
I  am  happy  to  report  that  our  efforts  are  bearing 
fruit.  Multidimensional  poverty  has  already  fallen  by 
half,  and  we  are  well  on  our  way  to  reducing  it  still 
further,  to  5  per  cent  within  the  next  few  years.  Our 
success in reducing poverty is a tribute to the leadership 
of our kings and the spirit of the people of Bhutan.
It is also due to the support of the United Nations 
and our other development partners, particularly India, 
Japan,  the  European  Union,  the  Asian  Development 
Bank  and  the  World  Bank.  Their  continued  support, 
partnership  and  generosity  have  helped  us  reduce 
poverty, achieve social growth and prepare for imminent 
graduation from the least-developed-country category.
I now ask everyone to join me in observing a moment 
of silence to remember the victims of global terrorism.
Recent  acts  of  terrorism  have  brought  pain  and 
suffering  to  countless  people  in  nearly  every  part  of 
the  world,  and  far  too  many  lives  have  been  cruelly 
lost.  The  horrific  acts  committed  by  terrorist  groups 
undermine global peace and security, and Bhutan joins 
the call for united action to combat those extremists. To 
win the fight against terrorism, we have no option but 
to strengthen the United Nations so that multilateralism 
and global cooperation are further enhanced.
Two years ago, I joined many others in calling for 
United Nations reform (see A/70/PV.26). The Secretary-
General’s  reform  initiatives  will  provide  a  much-
needed  framework  for  revitalizing  and  strengthening 
the United Nations. Bhutan joins all Member States in 
backing that bold endeavour.
But  any  United  Nations 
reform  would  be 
incomplete  without  reforming  the  Security  Council 
to  reflect  the  changing  realities  of  today’s  world.  In 
that  regard,  countries  like  India,  Japan,  Brazil  and 
Germany  must  be  called  on  to  serve  as  permanent 
members in the Security Council, and Africa must also 
be appropriately represented.
We  recognize  that  global  peace  and  security  are 
a  shared  concern  and  responsibility.  As  a  peaceful 
country,  one  that  has  enjoyed  the  benefits  of  United 
Nations  membership  for  more  than  four  decades,  we 
feel it is now time for us to contribute to global peace 
and security, if only modestly. Accordingly, it was with 
a sense of pride and duty in 2014 that Bhutan joined the 
peacekeeping movement. Since then, we have gradually 
increased  our  peacekeeping  engagement  in  keeping 
with  our  duty  to  contribute,  albeit  in  a  small  way,  to 
the cause of global peace and security. In doing so our 
peacekeepers have and always will uphold the highest 
standards  of  integrity,  ethics  and  professionalism 
while  discharging  their  important  responsibilities. 
Our  military  and  police  officers  today  serve  in  11 
peacekeeping  missions,  and  the  first-ever  military 
contingent from Bhutan is now ready to be deployed to 
a peacekeeping mission.
However, 
the  bedrock  of  global  peace  and 
security  ultimately  lies  within  each  and  every  one 
of  our  individual  countries.  Every  country  must 
therefore  protect  the  rights  of  its  citizens,  strengthen 
participatory democracy and participatory Government 
and enable economic opportunity for all. Those are the 
very principles of democracy and freedom. They must 
be nurtured and strengthened.
Nine  years  ago,  Bhutan  embarked  on  the  path 
of  democracy.  In  an  unprecedented  move  in  human 
history,  our  King,  at  the  height  of  his  popularity, 
imposed democracy, against the will of his people. After 
a  century  of  peace  and  prosperity  under  enlightened 
monarchs, there was much apprehension and fear. But 
16/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
nine  years  on,  it  gives  me  great  satisfaction  to  report 
that  democracy  in  Bhutan  is  well  entrenched  and 
irreversible.  Today  all  the  institutions  of  democratic 
governance have been established and are functioning 
well, along with a growing body of civil society and a 
strong and vibrant media. We held successful elections 
in 2008 and 2013, and look forward to a third election 
next year, in 2018.
The  importance  of  the  United  Nations  has  never 
been  greater,  and  the  imperative  for  multilateralism 
has  never  been  stronger.  As  we  look  to  the  future, 
Bhutan  will  continue  working  with  all  Member 
States  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  continues  to 
play  an  instrumental  role  in  fighting  climate  change, 
eradicating poverty and maintaining global peace and 
security. In that regard, I have the honour to conclude 
with a quotation from our beloved King, His Majesty 
Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck:
today  can 
in 
achievement. Time is slowly telling us that there can 
be no lasting individual success without success as 
a community, and there cannot be lasting national 
progress and success if it does not fit into a future 
of global peace, harmony and equality. The world 
must progress together or fail together.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan  for  the 
statement he has just made.
“No  nation 
stand  alone 
Mr.  Lyoncheon  Tshering  Tobgay,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Bhutan,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Albania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Albania.
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edi 
Rama, Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Rama  (Albania):  How  many  times  has  it 
happened that humankind has been confronted with as 
many complex challenges in such a relatively short time 
as is the case nowadays? Has there ever been another 
period in what we call modern times when we have had 
to deal with so many pressing issues at once? When was 
the last time we remember that we were all confronted 
with such a conflicting prospect — on the one hand, of 
an inspiring world that grows richer by the hour, driven 
by the tremendous progress of science and technology, 
and  on  the  other  of  a  planet  that  seems  to  have  lost 
its  way,  its  energy  and  its  vision  and  to  be  spiralling 
erratically downwards?
There are no simple answers to complex questions. 
Yet  facts  are  stubborn,  and  in  many  respects  reality 
looks  grim.  Global  terrorism  and  extremism  continue 
to threaten our values and our way of life. They have 
become  a  persistent  threat,  with  the  ability  to  strike 
everywhere,  indiscriminately  and  with  far-reaching 
consequences,  as  we  have  sadly  witnessed  so  many 
times, including in the recent past. Several brutal and 
seemingly  intractable  conflicts  continue  to  devastate 
the  lives  of  millions  of  people,  thereby  threatening 
the  future  of  entire  generations.  Armed  conflicts  are 
nowadays  more  complex,  the  actors  involved  more 
numerous, the weapons and tactics more sophisticated 
and the consequences, which continue to inflict endless 
human  suffering,  more  dire.  The  approximately 
65 million people, the highest number since the Second 
World  War,  who  have  been  forcefully  and  brutally 
uprooted from their homes constitute an indictment of 
our collective failure.
Climate  change,  a  defiant  truth  that  some  still 
dare to question, is putting our very survival at risk. It 
constitutes one the most fundamental challenges for our 
century, as it continues to cause growing humanitarian 
stress.  Disasters  are  becoming  more  frequent  and 
intense, and one example, the current hurricane season 
in the Atlantic, reminds us that nature will always have 
the upper hand unless we become aware of the need to 
quickly adapt our way of life and protect our planet, our 
lives and those of our children.
The  international  global  order  has  been  seriously 
challenged  without  anything  credible  or  promising  to 
replace  it.  Worse,  the  situation  in  North-East  Asia,  a 
prolonged  and  recently  exacerbated  crisis  sparked 
by  the  policy  of  a  stubborn  and  paranoid  totalitarian 
regime, has brought back the dreadful fear of nuclear 
confrontation.  Inequality  has  continued 
to  grow, 
while, in contrast, the world becomes wealthier, which 
casts  serious  doubt  on  the  validity  of  promises  and 
17-29710
17/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
guarantees  of  positive  results  for  the  benefit  of  all  so 
often advocated for from this very rostrum.
No  country,  however  large,  rich  or  powerful,  can 
face  or  solve  such  problems  alone.  The  challenges 
require a unified vision and a concerted response. In an 
increasingly globalized world, our visions and actions 
should  be  inclusive  and  universal  and  bring  people, 
communities and countries together. As the leader of a 
small nation, I hereby reiterate our pledge that we will 
faithfully do our part.
The increase in violent extremism and the number 
of  non-State  armed  groups  perpetrating  atrocities, 
particularly  against  ethnic  and  religious  minorities, 
continue to represent one of our most pressing challenges. 
The decisive action taken by the international coalition 
has  paid  off.  The  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  the  Sham 
(ISIS) has lost almost 90 per cent of the territory it once 
controlled, and its ability to wage war has been severely 
diminished. Yet let us make no mistake; its defeat on 
the  ground  does  not  mean  that  it  will  disappear.  Our 
response to the extremism and radicalization that leads 
to terrorism must continue and adapt to the nature of 
that  persistent  threat  itself.  Albania  was  among  the 
first countries to join the Global Coalition in the fight 
against  ISIS  and  international  terrorism.  We  are  now 
implementing a three-year action plan as an instrument 
for  implementing  our  national  strategy  on  countering 
violent extremism.
We welcome the increased attention that has been 
given to the role of regional organizations in security 
issues.  In  that  respect,  we  greatly  appreciate  and 
welcome  the  close  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the European Union (EU) on the Common 
Security and Defence Policy platform.
All over the world, people want to be safe and free 
from violence, oppression, persecution and fear. They 
want to be treated with dignity and know that their lives 
matter,  regardless  of  gender,  race,  national  or  social 
origin,  religious  belief,  political  affiliation,  property, 
birth  or  any  other  status.  To  achieve  those  goals,  we 
need  to  go  beyond  declaratory  undertakings.  People 
rightly demand us to show responsibility and an ability 
to act. The pledge to leave no one behind is the central 
theme of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and the Sustainable Development Goals.
Albania  is  fully  committed  to  protecting  and 
promoting  all  human  rights,  particularly  women’s 
rights, which is another major battle for change that my 
Government  is  leading.  I  am  proud  to  announce  that, 
for the second time in a row in Albanian history, half of 
the members of my Government are women. They bring 
leadership skills, strength of character, commitment to 
our  European  values  and  special  devotion  to  serving 
the Albanian people.
Furthermore,  women  count  for  approximately 
30 per cent of the members of our Parliament and more 
than  45  per  cent  of  our  public  administration.  Those 
may sound like mere statistics, but they rather reflect 
a  platform  that  ensures  that  the  role  of  women  in 
development  and  change  is  recognized,  their  rightful 
place in the society is secured and their voice is heard. 
It  is  my  deep  belief  that  the  empowerment  of  women 
serves  as  a  powerful  driver  of  overall  economic 
development and national prosperity.
One of the main national priorities for my country 
is  to  join  the  European  Union.  It  is  not  just  one  of 
our  foreign  policy  objectives  and  is  not  a  contractual 
relation of sorts. For us, European integration lies at the 
heart of our overall development, since it touches every 
cell of our development architecture.
We  are  resolved  to  deliver  on  the  fundamentals 
that  consolidate  the  pillars  of  a  democratic  State,  a 
functioning  economy  and  a  Government  that  works 
for its citizens. We want to measure our progress with 
results,  and  the  very  thorough  justice  reform  we  are 
implementing is a shining example of that.
In turn, we expect our EU partners to do their part 
and to clear the way towards finally opening accession 
talks. It will be a historic milestone, but also a strong 
encouragement  for  us  to  continue  on  the  same  path. 
We hope that the European Union, despite the current 
crisis, continues to believe that the enlargement process 
remains the best European catalyst for security, peace, 
development and prosperity. It has proved so in the past 
and remains the right bet for the future.
A couple of months ago, at the general elections, I 
was re-elected as Head of Government by the citizens 
of  Albania.  They  have  agreed  with  our  plans  for  the 
Albania  we  want.  Expectations  are  high,  and  so  is 
our  resolve  to  meet  them.  Our  target  is  to  ensure  a 
sustainable economic growth of 5 per cent during my 
current mandate.
That  brings  me 
favourite 
subjects  —  the  development  of  regional  cooperation 
and the transformation of the Western Balkans into an 
to  one  of  my 
18/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
area of free movement for people, goods, capitals and 
ideas, benefiting everyone in the region. That remains 
one of the main pillars of our foreign policy.
There were times in the past when we would come 
here and spend time and energy competing with some 
of our neighbours on how to belittle each other, telling 
our one-sided stories and trying to convince the world 
of our specific narratives. Hopefully, that is long gone. 
The best proof of the profound change in the Western 
Balkans  lies  in  our  joint  efforts,  with  a  shared  sense 
of  responsibility  and  a  common  purpose  to  make  the 
region a natural part of Europe.
Together with the European Union, and based on its 
principles and policies, we are working to bring down 
every barrier to free trade by encouraging transnational 
economies. A new and vibrant regional economic area, 
which we agreed on in July in Trieste, will boost trade 
and benefit our economies. I do not have the slightest 
doubt  that  it  will  help  us  to  protect  and  promote 
everyone’s  national  interests,  respect  the  rights  of 
minorities,  strengthen  good  neighbourly  relations  and 
move our countries and the region as a whole towards 
the European Union.
Strong  and  healthy  relations  with  the  European 
Union have proved key to stability and reform progress 
in  the  Balkans.  We  have  noticed  that  when  the  EU  is 
overly preoccupied with itself, that bond is fragile and 
insecure. That is why this important relationship should 
be  continually  nurtured  and  strengthened,  because 
it  also  facilitates  regional  cooperation, 
increased 
understanding  and  work  towards  reconciliation  in  the 
best European tradition and record.
As President Junker stated just a few weeks ago in 
his address on the state of the European Union, there 
is need for a credible enlargement perspective so that 
the  Western  Balkans  can  attain  more  stability  in  the 
EU.  Revitalizing  the  enlargement  policy  will  be  the 
best  deterrent  to  the  disintegration  narrative  that  is 
fuelled  by  populist  ideas.  It  is  my  firm  belief  that  as 
much  as  we  need  the  European  Union,  the  European 
Union needs a stronger, more developed and coherent 
Western Balkans.
We are well aware of that. And practice has shown 
that in order to build a fully functioning region, all of 
its members must be treated the same way. That is why 
we think that the admission of Kosovo to every regional 
body,  with  the  same  rights  as  other  countries,  is  of 
paramount significance. Many have used the Assembly 
over  the  past  years  to  express  worries  and  fear  that 
Kosovo’s independence would unleash dark forces that 
no one would be able to control. We have seen nothing 
of  the  sort.  Instead,  what  has  really  happened  it  that 
Albanians  in  Kosovo  and  Albania,  as  well  as  Serbs, 
once threatened with extermination by a brutal regime, 
are now free citizens living in democratic countries and 
contributing to further developing an open society.
Who can deny the impressive achievements made 
by  Kosovo  in  less  than  a  decade  of  independence? 
They  include  the  consolidation  of  its  democratic 
institutions, good governance, exemplary multi-ethnic 
and interreligious coexistence and evident progress in 
the  Euro-Atlantic  integration  process.  Every  credible 
report on the current situation in the Western Balkans 
would undoubtedly lead to the same conclusion — today 
the Western Balkans is far better off than it was three or 
five years ago, let alone 10. Kosovo’s independence has 
not unleashed any dark forces. On the contrary, it has 
brought stability to the entire region.
For  several  years,  Serbia  and  Kosovo  have  been 
engaged  in  serious  dialogue  on  the  normalization  of 
their relations, with the mediation and facilitation of the 
European Union. After centuries of mistrust, a climate 
of trust and regional cooperation for both countries is a 
growing reality. That serves as an even greater reason 
to remind those countries that have not yet recognized 
Kosovo to consider doing so as soon as possible. That 
should not be seen as defiance or a loss, as it is often 
wrongly portrayed. We have said it before and we will 
say it again: recognizing Kosovo, establishing relations 
and helping Kosovo move forward, which is something 
that 114 Member States have done so far, constitute a 
direct  contribution  to  bettering  the  lives  of  Kosovo’s 
citizens and investing in the security and stability of the 
whole region and all of its countries, including Serbia.
Let  me  conclude  by  highlighting  the  need  for  the 
United Nations to change in order to remain relevant, 
live  up  to  its  responsibilities,  secure  the  promise  of 
sustainable  development,  ensure  human  rights  and 
guarantee  peace  and  security  for  future  generations. 
We are aware that such reform is about what we can and 
must do together in order to better support our common 
efforts  in  transforming  lives.  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  points  the  way  towards  a 
better future, the future we want and the future that our 
children deserve. We cannot and must not fail to deliver 
on that promise. Albania stands ready to do its part and 
17-29710
19/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
cooperate with all those willing to invest in the future 
and make our world a better place for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Albania  for  the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Edi  Rama,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Malta
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have 
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Joseph 
Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic of Malta, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Muscat (Malta): There can be no peace while 
poverty,  especially  extreme  poverty,  exists.  Peace  is 
not  just  about  the  absence  of  war  or  conflict.  Rather, 
is  is  about  managing  and  addressing  climate  change, 
migration and food and water insecurity. The instrument 
of  the  United  Nations  that  weaves  sustainable  peace 
together with universal challenges is the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. In that regard, Malta, as 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union,  has 
worked hard with its other member States to achieve a 
successful  march  towards  a  new  European  consensus 
on  development  that  encompasses  the  2030  Agenda 
through a resolute plan of action to eradicate poverty.
Never has it been more urgent to work to preserve 
the future of humankind. The 2030 Agenda is the first 
step  towards  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  Every  sector  of  society  must  be  on 
board if we are to deliver on such an arduous task. As 
the  Commonwealth’s  Chair-in-Office,  I  would  like  to 
highlight its strong commitment to its role in realizing 
the SDGs. The Commonwealth represents 52 different 
realities,  which  has  led  us  to  launch,  in  broad  terms, 
a  number  of  common  initiatives  to  accelerate  the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Malta  is  taking  action  at  the  national  level.  We 
have  made  a  voluntary  commitment  to  designating 
30 per cent of all waters under Maltese jurisdiction as 
marine  protected  areas.  As  is  well  known,  Malta  has 
been  at  the  forefront  of  international  maritime  and 
marine-related  issues.  Fifty  years  ago,  Malta’s  first 
Permanent  Representative  to  the  United  Nations,  the 
late Arvid Pardo, made a famous speech that triggered 
the negotiation of the 1982 United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (see  A/C.1/PV.1515).  It  is  in 
a  similar  spirit  that  we  support  the  valuable  work 
being  done  to  achieve  a  legally  binding  international 
instrument under the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea for the conservation and sustainable use 
of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national 
jurisdiction,  which  will  be  crucial  to  finally  bringing 
legal  protection  to  the  biodiversity  of  the  high  seas. 
For our part, we will continue contributing to the good 
governance  of  the  oceans  by  hosting  the  next  Ocean 
Conference in Malta in October. Furthermore, we fully 
support  the  establishment  of  an  intergovernmental 
panel  on  ocean  governance  that  would  report  to  the 
General Assembly through the Secretary-General.
I  also  wish  to  underline  the  recent  initiative 
undertaken  by  the  Commonwealth  to  develop  a  “blue 
charter”,  which  will  serve  to  assist  the  countries  of 
the  Commonwealth,  most  of  them  small  developing 
States, in meeting the requirements outlined in SDG 14. 
Likewise,  we  wholeheartedly  welcome  the  November 
2016  entry  into  force  of  the  Paris  Agreement.  It  is 
only  by  greening  our  actions  that  we  can  ensure  that 
sustainable  development  complements  and  respects 
Mother  Earth.  Malta,  together  with  all  of  its  partners 
in  the  European  Union,  is  strongly  committed  to  the 
Paris Agreement.
As  a  Government,  we  base  our  policies  on  four 
overarching  principles:  social  mobility,  social  justice, 
equality  and  unity.  Only  today  did  we  learn  that,  for 
another  year  in  a  row,  fewer  people  in  Malta  are  at 
risk of poverty. That follows our Government’s efforts 
to  distribute  the  proceeds  that  come  from  sustained 
growth fairly. That is an achievement that is as dear to 
us as our record-setting economic growth and minimal 
levels of unemployment. It is exactly what we strive for. 
Our raison d’être is what we describe as prosperity with 
a purpose.
A  prosperous  future  must  be  accompanied  by  an 
inclusive  society.  People  who  live  in  fear  or  who  are 
oppressed or discriminated against cannot realize their 
potential,  and  are  therefore  not  at  peace.  Malta  seeks 
to lead by example and ensure equality as a hallmark 
20/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
of  our  political  legacy.  We  have  put  human  rights, 
equality  and  empowerment  at  the  forefront  of  our 
political  agenda,  particularly  on  the  priority  issues  of 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and queer 
rights and gender equality. We have redefined marriage 
to grant full equality and affirm gender neutral access. 
All this has been complemented by amendments to our 
constitution  to  protect  people  against  discrimination 
on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. 
These  individual  choices  should  really  have  as  little 
significance as the colour of one’s eyes.
The  economic  and  political  empowerment  of  our 
citizens,  regardless  of  their  gender,  is  a  priority  for 
us.  We  have  been  gradually  introducing  measures  to 
help  reconcile  work  and  family  responsibilities.  We 
are  proud  to  be  the  only  European  country  providing 
universal  free  child  care  to  all  working  parents,  an 
initiative  that  has  liberated  the  potential  of  so  many 
women in our society. We want to ensure more gender-
balanced  political  representation,  coupled  with  recent 
initiatives to increase youth participation by lowering 
the  voting  age  in  general  and  in  European  elections 
from 18 to 16 years of age, after having already lowered 
it for local elections.
Malta,  despite  its  small  size,  can  now  serve  as  a 
beacon  of  political  courage  that  inspires  others  to 
introduce  concrete  measures  and  reforms.  Everyone 
must feel empowered in today’s society. The protection 
of marginalized and vulnerable people is a must if we 
are to strive for an inclusive world. The United Nations 
is  pivotal  in  all  this.  It  must  continue  to  spearhead, 
sustain  and  mobilize  the  international  community  as 
we journey along the ambitious path to 2030.
But so much more must be done. The exploitation 
of  human  misery  knows  no  boundaries.  Migrant 
smuggling  and  human  trafficking  by  criminal  groups 
are  prevalent  all  over  the  world,  and  Malta  has 
witnessed much of that very close to home, along the 
central  Mediterranean  routes.  As  a  State  member  of 
the European Union, Malta is part of a wider European 
response aimed at tackling human-trafficking networks 
in the Mediterranean Sea.
However,  without  a  global  response,  national  and 
even  regional  action  is  insufficient.  Malta  welcomes 
the progress that has been made in developing a global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. That 
should reaffirm the sovereign right of States to decide 
their  immigration  policies,  but  it  should  also  commit 
them  to  building  a  migration  system  and  institutions 
that  operate  in  a  timely  manner  so  that  migrants  are 
treated  fairly  and  with  dignity.  It  should  protect 
migrants’  human  rights  and  create  awareness  of  the 
importance  of  combating  exploitation  and  modern 
slavery.  It  should  lead  campaigns  against  xenophobia 
while  providing  support  for  the  integration  of  long-
term  migrants  and  taking  account  of  the  feelings 
of  people  in  host  countries.  It  is  also  our  belief  that 
although  the  global  compact  should  encompass  all 
of  these  measures,  it  should  also  facilitate  orderly, 
safe  and  regular  migration,  while  committing  States, 
particularly those of origin and transit, to taking action 
to reduce illegal and unmanaged flows.
Challenging times require us to act swiftly to meet 
such  challenges.  And  that  time  is  now.  It  is  sooner 
rather than later. Systematic action by stakeholders at 
all levels and across all strata is crucial if its benefits 
are  to  be  felt  by  people  in  every  corner  of  the  world. 
The United Nations is the prime mobilizer and anchor 
of  international  peace,  security  and  stability  and  has 
a  crucial  role  to  play  if  we  are  to  secure  a  peaceful, 
sustainable  and  better  world  for  all.  Malta  is  a  firm 
believer in the overarching power of multilateralism. We 
do not believe that the United Nations is simply a sum 
of its parts. Rather, it is a force that grows exponentially 
when we think and act as one rather than alone.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Malta, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  José  Ulisses  Correia  e  Silva, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Reform of the 
Republic of Cabo Verde
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Reform  of  the  Republic  of 
Cabo Verde.
Mr.  José  Ulisses  Correia  e  Silva,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Reform  of  the  Republic  of  Cabo 
Verde, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. José Ulisses Correia e 
Silva,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Reform  of  the 
17-29710
21/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
Republic  of  Cabo  Verde,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Silva  (Cabo  Verde)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am  very 
pleased and honoured to be taking part in this meeting 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I 
bring with me the warm greetings of the Cabo Verdean 
people both living in the country and in the diaspora.
I  want 
to  assure  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres  of  the  full  support  of  the  Government  of 
Cabo  Verde,  especially  in  carrying  out  the  reforms 
he  has  announced  aimed  at  strengthening  the  broad 
delivery  capacity,  transparency  and  accountability  of 
our Organization.
I salute the President of the Assembly at its seventy-
second  session,  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  and  wish  him 
every  success.  We  listened  with  particular  interest  to 
the  programme  he  has  announced  for  his  presidency, 
whose six points are interlinked and geared to ensuring 
people’s protection, dignity and well-being. Indeed, the 
theme  proposed  for  the  seventy-second  session  could 
not be more appropriate, given the underlying objective 
of  the  President’s  programme  to  bring  the  United 
Nations ever closer to the people.
Cabo Verde prides itself on being a nation with five 
and  a  half  centuries  of  history,  and  on  having  built  a 
creole identity of its own at the junction between Africa 
and Europe, while also being open to the world, with a 
significant diaspora in several countries and embodying 
the peaceful coexistence we wish to see in all nations. 
As a small island country that has few natural resources 
and no mineral resources at all, we know that we can 
only affirm ourselves in the concert of nations and in 
the global economic system by exemplifying political, 
institutional  and  social  stability;  by  displaying 
cosmopolitanism,  being  trustworthy  in  our  relations 
with development partners and investors; by upholding 
the  values  of  democracy,  freedom,  human  dignity 
and full citizenship; and by proving the quality of our 
institutions and the excellence of our human resources. 
Although  intangible,  they  are  our  greatest  assets  and 
the  foundation  of  our  development  process.  Our  only 
option  is  to  value  those  assets  and  to  make  them 
distinctive and focused on the people who are truly our 
development  actors  and  beneficiaries  —  the  children, 
young people, women and men of all countries.
I  raise  these  points  because  I  agree  that  it  is 
appropriate to focus on people. Women and men in every 
country need political, institutional, socioeconomic and 
educational  environments  that  release  their  creative 
energy  and  their  capacity  to  innovate  and  learn,  to 
work,  cooperate  and  trust,  to  self-organize  and  to  be 
accountable. That is possible only in environments of 
peace and security that establish a belief in the future 
in people, as opposed to simply living one day at a time, 
beset with unease and limited horizons.
The  people  and  the  Government  of  Cabo  Verde 
are concerned about the current international context, 
where  not  only  do  old  disputes  persist  but  where  we 
are  also  seeing  new  internal  political  crises,  armed 
conflicts,  terrorist  acts  and  the  organized  crimes  of 
trafficking  in  drugs,  people  and  weapons  and  piracy, 
as  well  as  other  transnational  ideological  trends, 
such  as  populism,  racial  supremacy,  xenophobia  and 
intolerance of human and cultural diversity.
Such 
ills  are  detrimental 
to  global  peace, 
because  they  cause  human  suffering,  claim  lives  and 
contribute to other humanitarian tragedies, such as the 
unprecedented increase we are seeing in the numbers 
of refugees, as well as in hunger and violence against 
women and children. They undermine the rule of law, 
weaken  democracy,  threaten  the  territorial  integrity 
of  States,  corrupt  the  bases  of  economic  and  social 
progress and endanger coexistence at both the national 
and  international  levels.  These  evils,  unfortunately, 
spare no region in a globalized world.
Just  as  the  threats  to  security  are  global,  so  are 
the challenges. The opportunities for combat ing them 
effectively are also global, and permanent representation 
for  Africa  on  the  Security  Council  is  therefore  fully 
justified.  The  Government  of  Cabo  Verde  supports 
reform of the Security Council aimed at enabling it to 
reflect today’s changing world by integrating permanent 
representation for Africa into its broader composition. 
In our view, considering that the positions of both sides 
have already been sufficiently expressed, it is time to 
start negotiations based on a text.
Thanks  to  the  United  Nations,  for  the  first  time 
humankind  has  a  holistic  and  comprehensive  agenda 
that  offers  a  real  opportunity  for  sustainable  and 
inclusive  development,  not  only  because  it  integrates 
the economic, social and environmental dimensions of 
sustainable development, but also because it considers 
the cross-cutting issues of peace, security, justice and 
necessary partnerships and promotes the call to leave 
no one behind.
22/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
Now, two years after the adoption of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  the  challenges  lie  in  its 
implementation.  The  United  Nations  must  therefore 
be  able  to  play  a  catalytic  role  in  forming  consensus 
and mobilizing resources to make a difference on the 
implementation, funding and capacity-building fronts. 
In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  Secretary-General’s 
ongoing exercise aimed at adapting the United Nations 
development  system  and  reforming  the  Secretariat’s 
management  structures  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
implementing  the  2030  Agenda  and  its  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
In that regard, we should focus particularly on the 
situation  of  middle-income  countries,  including  small 
island  developing  States  that  have  graduated  to  that 
status, such as Cabo Verde. This category of countries 
needs  a  common  response  in  terms  of  new  metrics 
that  can  provide  a  more  systemic  assessment  of  their 
financial needs and structural vulnerabilities.
For  small  island  developing  States,  the  swift  and 
rapid implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate 
change is a priority, as it should be for the whole world.
Cabo  Verde  expresses  its  solidarity  with  the 
victims of recent hurricanes. While there have always 
been  hurricanes,  the  bad  news  is  that  with  climate 
change  they  tend  to  be  more  frequent,  cruel  and 
destructive. The consequences are devastating for the 
regions  and  countries  that  are  most  vulnerable  from 
an environmental and economic point of view, such as 
small island developing States and their regions. Every 
new day is one day too late for vigorous and globalized 
action  on  the  factors  that  trigger  and  accelerate 
climate change.
For  Cabo  Verde,  the  rule  of  law  and  democracy 
are  not  mere  options;  above  all,  they  are  essential 
to  ensuring  objective,  transparent  and  predictable 
governance, both nationally and internationally. Cabo 
Verde’s  internal  order  is  aligned  with  international 
positions  and  practices  in  the  field  of  human  rights 
through the Constitution of the Republic and its laws, 
institutions,  public  policies  and  social  practices.  We 
recognize,  however,  that  there  have  been  difficulties 
within  the  United  Nations  in  harmonizing  positions 
regarding 
rights 
principles and practices, and that we must pursue that 
objective through dialogue and respect among parties.
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
Secretary-General’s  initiative  to  establish  a  pact  with 
the  universalization  of  human 
Member States and a circle of leadership on preventing 
and responding to sexual exploitation and abuse in all 
United Nations operations, above all in the context of 
peacekeeping and humanitarian action. That initiative 
will give greater dignity to our world’s most vulnerable 
people,  especially  women  and  girls,  and  promote 
their rights.
As a supporter of international relations governed 
by international law, Cabo Verde actively participates 
in  codifying  such  law  by  joining  and  taking  part 
in  negotiations  and  by  signing, 
ratifying  and 
implementing most of the international instruments in 
a broad spectrum of areas. In that context, Cabo Verde 
has already deposited its instrument of ratification of 
the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  signed 
the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
concluded in New York on 7 July.
We  welcome  the  success  of  the  preparatory  work 
towards  developing  an  international  legal  instrument 
on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine 
biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction. 
Moreover,  we  support  the  convening  of  a  diplomatic 
conference in 2018 to work towards such a convention 
issue,  which  should  have  safeguards  for  the  specific 
situation of small island developing States.
The  conclusion  of 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  was  a  historic 
moment  in  the  fight  against  impunity  for  those 
responsible  for 
the  most  serious  crimes  against 
humanity,  and  I  therefore  express  Cabo  Verde’s  firm 
support to the ICC. Strengthening the Court is a duty 
that the present generation owes to future ones.
As  written  by  a  poet  and  songwriter,  and  later 
sung  by  the  diva  Cesária  Évora,  Cabo  Verde  is  “ten 
little  grains  of  sand”  in  the  middle  of  the  Atlantic. 
Despite  our  small  size,  we  want  to  make  Cabo  Verde 
a  country  with  relevance  in  the  Middle  Atlantic  in 
terms of economic stature, security and diplomacy for 
peace  and  the  promotion  of  freedom  and  democracy. 
We  intend  to  position  Cabo  Verde  as  a  transit  hub  in 
the  Middle  Atlantic  for  tourism,  air  transport,  port 
operations, 
investment  operations, 
business  localization  and  development  in  the  digital 
and nano-technological economy, and in the attraction 
of investment and skills from the diaspora.
financial  and 
Cabo  Verde  promotes  collective  and  cooperative 
security  systems,  as  necessitated  by  the  transnational 
nature  of  crime  and  its  location.  We  are  seeking  to 
17-29710
23/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
position ourselves as a useful interlocutor in the concert 
of nations for dialogue, peace and tolerance. Its history 
and  location  have  transformed  Cabo  Verde  into  a 
country born of mergers between Europe and Africa, a 
country that maintains good relations with all nations 
of the world. We would like to value and develop those 
assets strategically. That is our vision and purpose for 
our economy, security and diplomacy. It is embodied in 
our  strategic  plan  for  sustainable  development,  which 
has  already  been  completed  and  is  aligned  with  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Partnerships  are  an 
integral and indispensable part of the 2030 Agenda, and 
national ownership will find in them an unquestionable 
complement  so  that  our  strategic  plan  for  sustainable 
development  can  succeed,  with  the  United  Nations  at 
the forefront.
Happiness is the ultimate right to which the people 
of  the  world  aspire.  The  2030  Agenda  has  given  the 
world not only a vision but also a road map for bringing 
happiness to people and leaving no one behind on the 
path to sustainable development. In 1945, the peoples 
of  the  United  Nations  showed  their  determination  to 
conduct humankind down a path that would not lead to 
war. Today, with the 2030 Agenda, they will be able to 
determine another course for humankind and for people 
who struggle with poverty and a lack of development 
alternatives.
It  is  up  to  us  —  we,  the  peoples  of  the  United 
Nations — to support both the Secretary-General and 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second  session  in  this  honourable  and  great  task  of 
advancing the happiness agenda.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister and Minister for Reform of the Republic 
of Cabo Verde for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  José  Ulisses  Correia  e  Silva,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Reform  of  the  Republic  of  Cabo 
Verde, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Pham Binh Minh, Deputy 
Prime Minister of Viet Nam.
Mr.  Pham  Binh  Minh  (Viet  Nam):  I  extend 
my  warmest  congratulations 
to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák on his election as President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session.
My special thanks also go to the Secretary-General 
and  the  Secretariat.  Only  10  months  into  his  term  of 
office,  Mr.  Guterres  has  already  left  his  mark  on  the 
Organization’s  work  for  peace,  development  and 
human rights.
On 20 September 1977, exactly 40 years ago, Viet 
Nam  was  admitted  to  the  United  Nations  as  its  149th 
Member. One day later, the then Deputy Prime Minister 
and  Foreign  Minister  of  Viet  Nam  stood  right  here 
at  this  rostrum  and  addressed  the  General  Assembly 
(see  A/32/PV.1).  Representing  a  nation  devastated 
by  decades  of  war,  he  affirmed  a  unified  Viet  Nam’s 
pledge to cooperate closely with other Member States 
in striving tirelessly to turn the lofty goals of the United 
Nations  into  reality.  Those  goals  are  peace,  national 
independence, democracy and social progress.
Those 40 years have been an era of transformation 
for my country. Today, Viet Nam is a dynamic economy 
on  a  path  to  reform  and  sustainable  development.  We 
have transformed ourselves from being aid-dependent 
to  a  lower  middle-income  country.  Our  efforts  to 
implement  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  have 
helped to bring millions of Vietnamese out of poverty.
But  one  thing  has  not  changed.  Viet  Nam  today 
is as committed as ever to the United Nations. We are 
a  staunch  supporter  and  proponent  of  multilateralism 
with the United Nations at its core. We believe in the 
fundamental role of international law and the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  principles  of  respect 
for  sovereignty,  political  independence  and  territorial 
integrity,  non-interference,  of  refraining  from  the 
threat or use of force and of working for the peaceful 
settlement of disputes.
fast 
transformations.  The 
We  are  gathered  here  as  the  world  is  undergoing 
fourth 
profound  and 
industrial revolution, particularly the advance of digital 
technology,  is  creating  unprecedented  opportunities 
for  development  for  all.  Enormous  efforts  to  realize 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  are 
under  way,  and  yet  our  world  is  still  fraught  with 
turmoil,  uncertainties  and  fragility.  While  peace 
and  cooperation  prevail,  people  around  the  world  are 
facing  unprecedented  challenges  to  their  security 
and  development.  Political    instability  and  the  risk  of 
conflicts,  disasters  and  climate  change  threaten  the 
sustainable development of all nations.
Terrorism  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
have  gone  global  and  are  a  threat  to  everyone. 
24/26 
17-29710
22/09/2017 
A/72/PV.15
Efforts  to  achieve  disarmament,  arms  control  and 
non-proliferation  have  not  progressed  as  expected. 
The  worst  migration  and  humanitarian  crisis  since 
the  Second  World  War  continues  to  unfold.  For 
many  decades,  the  desire  to  be  able  to  live  in  peace 
has  remained  a  distant  dream  for  millions  of  people. 
Together, with the slow and unsustainable growth of the 
global economy, globalization and economic integration 
are now facing a less certain future. Inequality within 
and  between  countries  remains  one  of  the  biggest 
challenges of our time. The impact of climate change is 
ever more real and far beyond what has been predicted. 
This year, we have witnessed multiple natural disasters 
that  have  inflicted  heavy  losses  in  human  life  and 
property in Cuba, Mexico, the United States and other 
Caribbean countries.
Given those daunting challenges, the theme chosen 
for  this  session,  “Focusing  on  people:  Striving  for 
peace and a decent life for all on a sustainable planet” 
could  not  have  been  more  timely.  With  the  adoption 
of  the  2030  Agenda,  the  international  community 
has  clearly  chosen  sustainable  development  as  the 
path  towards  a  better  destiny  for  current  and  future 
generations.  It  is  now  incumbent  on  us  to  make  that 
ambitious  plan  a  reality.  Developing  countries  should 
be  allowed  more  favourable  conditions  and  resources 
to realize the Sustainable Development Goals. We call 
on  developed  nations  to  fulfil  their  commitments  on 
providing financial assistance and technology transfer 
for developing countries.
On  the  path  to  sustainable  development,  we  must 
place  the  interests  of  the  people  at  the  centre  of  all 
our policies and actions. If we do not, we will not be 
able to ensure a decent life for all. I do not believe that 
life  can  be  decent  when  poverty,  unemployment  and 
epidemics are still not effectively addressed. It cannot 
be  decent  if  it  is  still  threatened  by  climate  change 
and  disasters.  Above  all,  we  will  not  succeed  in  our 
quest for sustainable development and a decent life for 
all if we cannot secure sustainable peace.
Having  enjoyed  peace  and  independence  for  the 
past four decades, we now know what peace can bring 
about.  Sustaining  peace  must  always  be  at  the  top  of 
our  agenda.  That  major  undertaking  will  take  strong 
commitment and cooperation. I believe we will need to 
come together to strengthen multilateralism to achieve 
those goals.
For  today’s  global  challenges,  multilateralism  has 
been  shown  to  provide  the  most  effective  solutions. 
Multilateral institutions are venues in which countries 
can align their various interests, manage disputes and 
differences,  and  promote  cooperation.  However,  trust 
in multilateralism will falter if those institutions fail to 
prove their effectiveness or lack consensus on common 
goals  and  principles.  Global  and  regional  multilateral 
mechanisms should therefore function in a transparent, 
effective and responsive manner.
joint  efforts 
The  United  Nations  must  be  at  the  centre  of 
coordination  and 
to  address  global 
challenges,  building  an  ever  more  comprehensive 
system  of  rules  and  norms  with  a  mechanism  for 
ensuring  objectiveness,  fairness  and  equality.  To  do 
that, the United Nations must undertake comprehensive 
reforms, from its organizational structure and working 
methodologies  to  the  way  that  development  resources 
are mobilized and allocated. Viet Nam supports efforts 
to  reform  the  United  Nations  in  that  regard  and  will 
participate responsibly in the process.
International law is an essential foundation of order 
and stability in international relations. Wars, conflicts 
and  tension  occur  today  mainly  because  international 
law is not fully respected or observed in good faith. We 
believe that by upholding international law, peace can be 
secured. We should take concrete action, in accordance 
with  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  to  prevent  conflicts,  build  confidence  and 
peacefully settle disputes, including in the Middle East 
and Africa, and we call for the denuclearization of the 
Korean peninsula. In that regard, we also find that the 
unilateral  embargo  on  Cuba  is  inappropriate  and  call 
for its immediate removal.
We welcome the recent adoption of the Treaty on the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  a  historic  milestone 
on  the  road  to  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  I  am 
signing  the  Treaty  today,  and  call  on  others  to  sign 
and  ratify  it  so  as  to  enable  its  entry  into  force  as 
soon  as  possible.  Let  us  all  be  clear  —  the  danger  of 
nuclear weapons will loom over humankind as long as 
they continue to exist.
This  year  also  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
of which Viet Nam is proud to be a member. ASEAN 
is  striving  to  build  a  rules-based  and  people-oriented 
community to strengthen its centrality in the evolving 
regional architecture and actively contribute to peace, 
17-29710
25/26
A/72/PV.15 
22/09/2017
stability and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific region. Viet 
Nam is working closely with other ASEAN members to 
address common challenges.
With  regard  to  the  South  China  Sea  dispute,  Viet 
Nam and ASEAN call on all the parties concerned to 
exercise  self-restraint  and  settle  disputes  by  peaceful 
means, in accordance with international law, including 
the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Sea. They must fully respect diplomatic and legal 
processes,  implement  the  Declaration  on  the  Conduct 
of  Parties  in  the  South  China  Sea  and  expedite  the 
completion  of  an  effective  and  legally  binding  code 
of conduct.
Viet Nam also took pride in hosting the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation Forum this year, as we seek to 
build  an  Asia-Pacific  partnership  for  sustainable  and 
inclusive development in the twenty-first century.
At the global level, Viet Nam has actively engaged 
in the work of the United Nations, serving on the Human 
Rights Council from 2014 to 2016 and as a member of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the  term  2016-
2018.  We  have  begun  to  implement  our  national  plan 
of  action  for  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  and  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We will present 
our voluntary national review on the implementation of 
the 2030 Agenda in 2018. In March, Viet Nam hosted 
a high-level Euro-Asia regional meeting on improving 
cooperation on transit and trade facilitation.
Since 2014, Viet Nam has sent its officers to work 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  Africa 
and is preparing for the deployment of level-two field 
hospitals.  Before  that,  in  2009,  Viet  Nam  presented 
its  candidature  for  non-permanent  membership  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  term  2020-2021.  We  believe 
that those are the most practical ways we can contribute 
to the cause of sustainable peace and security.
I  am  confident  that  through  our  concerted  effort 
and the strength of multilateralism, we will fulfil our 
mission  to  maintain  peace  and  security  and  secure  a 
decent life and a sustainable future for all.
The meeting rose at noon.
26/26 
17-29710
