United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-second session
32nd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 18 October 2017, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/72/PV.32
Official Records
President:
Mr. Lajčák  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Slovakia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda items 75 and 129
Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former 
Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/266)
International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals
Note by the Secretary-General (A/72/261)
The  President:  I  call  on  Judge  Carmel  Agius, 
the 
International  Tribunal 
President  of 
the 
Former Yugoslavia.
for 
Judge  Agius  (International  Tribunal  for 
the 
Former  Yugoslavia):  It  is  my  deep  honour  to  address 
the Assembly for the second, and indeed last, time in 
my capacity as President of the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  At  the 
outset, please allow me to congratulate His Excellency 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  of  Slovakia  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session. It is with great pleasure that I wish Your 
Excellency a successful tour of duty.
Charter of the United Nations. I am proud to represent 
an institution that has played an active role in furthering 
the principles and purposes of the Charter, and I once 
again reaffirm our commitment to those ideals and to 
continuing  the  fight  against  impunity  for  genocide, 
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  Until  the 
very moment that the Tribunal closes its doors, we will 
continue to reinforce our message to the international 
community  that  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  must  be 
brought to justice.
Before  the  Assembly  today  is  the  twenty-fourth 
and  final  annual  report  of  the  Tribunal  (A/72/266). 
The  report  details  the  progress  made  in  the  past  year 
towards the completion of the Tribunal’s mandate and 
the transition to the International Residual Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals, which I will henceforth refer to 
as the Mechanism.
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  the  Tribunal  has  now 
completed its work in all but two substantive cases. The 
judges heard the final arguments in both cases within 
the past year and have been fully engaged in intensive 
deliberations  and  judgment  drafting  since  then.  Our 
resolute determination to conclude all judicial work by 
the  end  of  November  2017  will  result  in  the  delivery 
of  judgments  next  month,  on  22  November  for  the 
Mladić trial case and on 29 November for the Prlić et 
al. appeal case.
I must note also that our meeting today takes place 
not  long  before  United  Nations  Day,  on  24  October, 
which  marks  the  anniversary  of  the  Organization  and 
the  entry  into  force  of  its  founding  document,  the 
In relation to the contempt case against Petar Jojić 
and  Vjerica  Radeta,  unfortunately,  the  news  is  not  so 
happy. No progress has been made in that case since I 
stood here a year ago (see A/71/PV.44), and the accused 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
17-32745 (E)
*1732745*
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
are still at large in Serbia, owing to Serbia’s continued 
lack  of  cooperation  with  the  Tribunal  on  that  matter. 
That is despite my subsequent reporting of the matter 
to the Security Council on numerous occasions. Now, 
given  its  imminent  closure,  there  is  no  longer  any 
possibility for the ICTY to try that contempt case, but 
we will take whatever action is necessary to ensure that 
the  accused  will  face  justice,  if  necessary,  even  after 
the  Tribunal  closes  down.  The  ICTY  sincerely  hopes 
that Serbia will take this final opportunity to comply 
with the Tribunal’s statute and demonstrate a genuine 
commitment to international criminal justice.
Moving on to more heartening news, I can confirm 
to  you,  Mr.  President,  and  to  all  present  that,  in  line 
with  my  solemn  commitment  to  the  Assembly,  the 
ICTY will, after 24 years, formally close its doors on 
31 December 2017. We will have completed our mandate. 
On  behalf  of  the  Tribunal  and  its  three  principals,  I 
would like to thank all States Members of the United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  as  a  whole 
for their enduring support and assistance over the past 
quarter of a century. We congratulate Members on their 
vision back in 1993 and their dedication throughout the 
Tribunal’s  life,  and  we  encourage  them  to  recognize 
the immensity of our joint achievements. In my view, 
the principal achievement of the Tribunal, and its most 
important  legacy,  is  its  ground-breaking  role  in  the 
fight against impunity and the successful fulfilment of 
its  mandate  to  prosecute  those  who  bear  the  greatest 
responsibility for the horrific crimes committed in the 
former Yugoslavia during the conflicts of the 1990s.
As  we  reflect  on  the  work  that  the  Tribunal  has 
accomplished, I recall that the ICTY blazed a trail of 
truly  remarkable  firsts:  it  was  the  first  international 
criminal  tribunal  since  the  post-Second  World  War 
Nuremberg  and  Tokyo  Tribunals;  the  first  tribunal 
ever  established  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations;  the  first  to  indict  a  sitting  Head 
of  State;  and  the  first  to  have  all  female  principals. 
The ICTY has issued more indictments than any other 
international  criminal  court  and  has  successfully 
brought to justice 161 individuals in respect of serious 
violations of international humanitarian law.
Also, unlike other courts, the ICTY will close with 
no  outstanding  fugitives  for  core  crimes.  Numerous 
jurisprudential firsts have been equally remarkable; for 
instance, the Tribunal was the first to comprehensively 
address  conflict-related  sexual  violence;  the  first  to 
clarify the applicability of the laws and customs of war 
in  non-international  armed  conflicts;  and  the  first  to 
affirm  that  the  destruction  of  cultural  heritage  may 
amount  to  a  crime  against  humanity.  On  front  after 
front, the ICTY has developed not only jurisprudence, 
but also tools, procedures and programmes to address 
specialized  areas  of  international  criminal  law  and 
practice, such as witness protection, State cooperation 
and judicial efficiency. While the ICTY has also faced 
numerous  challenges  throughout  its  operations,  the 
record will show that it has responded positively, indeed 
risen, to these challenges in ways that will be relevant 
for other courts and tribunals in the future.
The  achievements  of  the  ICTY  do  not  begin  and 
end in The Hague. Not only has our delivery of justice 
assisted  in  rebuilding  the  trust  between  the  States  of 
the former Yugoslavia and the United Nations, but our 
numerous outreach and capacity-building programmes 
have  assisted  those  in  the  region  in  putting  their 
countries  back  together.  Today,  the  former  Yugoslav 
republics have adjudicated numerous cases through their 
own  special  war-crimes  courts,  and  their  specialized 
war-crimes  prosecutors  continue  to  investigate  and 
bring charges against perpetrators numbering in their 
thousands. However, let me assure the Assembly, that 
there  is  much  room  for  improvement  and  a  need  for 
continued  assistance  to  the  relevant  institutions  and 
actors on the ground.
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  ICTY  continues  to 
contribute to the fight against impunity even after we 
close our doors and in order to further consolidate its 
legacy, the ICTY has developed a series of legacy and 
closing events entitled “ICTY legacy dialogues”. I am 
pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  they  have  been 
met  with  very  positive  responses  so  far.  As  part  of 
that  series,  the  ICTY  held  a  final  Legacy  Conference 
in  June  of  this  year  in  Sarajevo,  at  which  the  myriad 
legacies of the Tribunal were discussed with all relevant 
stakeholders.  As  members  know,  the  ICTY  adopted  a 
set of conclusions and recommendations at the end of 
the Conference, which are annexed to the annual report 
that they have before them. We anticipate that they will 
be of use to other courts and tribunals in future.
The  Tribunal  has  also  continued  to  produce 
documentaries  and  short  features  for  dissemination 
online,  as  well  as  in  public  forums  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia, and has recently launched a lecture series 
to tell the stories and share the insights of ICTY staff 
and  defence  counsels  over  their  years  of  service.  To 
further  commemorate  our  closure,  the  Tribunal  will 
2/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
hold  an  event  on  4  December  at  the  Secretariat  in 
New  York,  followed  by  final  events  in  The  Hague, 
consisting of a symposium and a closing ceremony on 
18  and  21  December,  respectively.  It  is  my  hope  and 
expectation that many of the representatives of States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  will  join  us  in  New 
York and in The Hague as we celebrate the Tribunal’s 
unwavering commitment and significant contributions 
to international criminal justice.
As we prepare for life after the ICTY, I would like 
to  thank  the  Tribunal’s  Division  of  Administration, 
which, among other sections, continues to play a vital 
role in ensuring a seamless transfer of responsibilities 
to the Mechanism, while at the same time taking pains 
to  ensure  that  our  closure  remains  efficient  and  an 
example  for  other  downsizing  institutions  to  follow. 
By 1 January 2018, the Tribunal will essentially have 
been liquidated, with all but a few residual liquidation 
tasks remaining, including dealing with the separation 
of staff members whose contracts end in December and 
closing the financial accounts. By then the Mechanism 
will  have  assumed  full  responsibility  for  all  residual 
functions of the ICTY, as well as its extensive archives.
Incidentally, in relation to the archives, the ICTY 
has  made  substantial  progress  in  the  preparation  and 
transfer  of  its  paper,  electronic,  audio-visual  and 
other records for preservation and management by the 
Mechanism. That work was done in collaboration with 
the Mechanism in order to ensure that the records will 
be easily manageable after their transfer and accessible 
for  posterity.  As  of  1  October,  the  Mechanism  has 
received  approximately  86  per  cent  of  the  ICTY’s 
records,  which  will  be  housed  in  the  Mechanism’s 
archives,  and  the  remaining  records  will  be  handed 
over to the Mechanism by 31 December.
In these and many other respects, I wish to thank 
the  President  of  the  Mechanism,  my  colleague  Judge 
Theodor  Meron,  for  his  continued  cooperation  and 
support  as  we  transfer  the  remaining  functions  and 
records to the Mechanism and navigate our way through 
these not easy and challenging final months.
The achievements of the Tribunal are the product 
of  the  hard  work  and  dedication  of  all  of  the  judges, 
principals  and  staff  members  of  the  Tribunal,  who 
deserve  to  be  commended  once  more.  I  can  only 
reiterate  that  the  significant  progress  that  we  have 
made  since  the  last  report  towards  the  conclusion  of 
our mandate (A/71/263) would not have been possible 
without  the  perseverance,  exceptional  efforts  and 
excellent work of my colleagues, the judges and staff, 
and I take this opportunity to openly and publicly thank 
them most sincerely.
Now that we are only weeks away from delivering 
judgment in the final cases, I wish in particular to pay 
tribute to the staff in chambers, who have been and are 
still working around the clock to ensure the cases are 
completed on time. I must tell the Assembly that the staff 
who remain at the ICTY are among the most dedicated, 
professional and loyal individuals I have ever known. 
Indeed,  many  have  sacrificed  opportunities  for  more 
secure and lucrative employment prospects elsewhere,so 
that  they  may  see  their  work  with  the  ICTY  through 
until the end. I sincerely hope that Member States will 
continue to encourage the Secretariat and other United 
Nations  entities  to  favourably  consider  applications 
from  qualified  ICTY  staff  members,  especially  those 
who have chosen to remain with the Tribunal until the 
completion of their contracts.
I take this opportunity also to thank the Secretary-
General for his unwavering support for the work of the 
Tribunal since his appointment and for wholeheartedly 
backing the efforts undertaken by the Tribunal to fulfil 
its  mandate.  Similarly,  I  would  like  to  recognize  the 
Legal Counsel and his Deputy and their team for their 
ongoing valued assistance throughout our final year.
As I stand before the Assembly today, marking my 
final appearance before it as President of the ICTY, I 
believe that we can all be extremely proud of what the 
Tribunal  has  accomplished  since  1993.  I,  personally, 
could not be prouder of our many contributions to the 
fields  of  international  criminal  law  and  international 
humanitarian law, to the region of the former Yugoslavia, 
to  other  courts  and  tribunals,  and,  of  course,  to 
international justice more broadly. The States Members 
of  the  United  Nations  can  —  and  should  —  share  in 
that  sense  of  pride  because,  without  them,  the  ICTY 
would never have been created or given the means and 
resources with which to succeed. I therefore conclude 
by  expressing  once  more  my  gratitude  to  all  Member 
States  and  by  wishing  them  success,  courage  and 
determination  as  they  carry  forward  the  ideals  and 
dedication to justice for which the ICTY, together with 
them,  has  stood  and  which  the  ICTY  has  shown  can 
be achieved.
17-32745
3/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
The President: I now call on Judge Theodor Meron, 
President of the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals.
Judge  Meron  (International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals):  It  is  my  privilege  to  appear 
before  the  Assembly  as  President  of  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  Before 
proceeding, 
to  congratulate  you, 
Mr. President, on your assuming the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. I wish 
you, Sir, every success during your term.
I  would 
like 
I also wish to acknowledge the invaluable support 
provided by the Office of Legal Affairs and especially 
by  Mr.  Miguel  Ferreira  de  Serpa  Soares,  Under-
Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and United Nations 
Legal  Counsel,  and  Mr.  Stephen  Mathias,  Assistant 
Secretary-General for Legal Affairs.
Finally,  I  wish  to  acknowledge  my  colleague, 
the 
President  Agius.  As  a  former  President  of 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
former 
Yugoslavia myself, it is a particular privilege to appear 
together with him in this Hall today on the milestone 
occasion of the final report of the International Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  to  the  Assembly 
(A/72/266).
the 
for 
A few weeks ago, the world lost a titan in the field 
of international law, Professor M. Cherif Bassiouni. He 
was,  notably,  among  the  first  to  call  for  the  creation 
of  a  tribunal  to  try  those  accused  of  grave  violations 
of  international  law  in  the  former  Yugoslavia,  and  he 
was  instrumental  in  the  creation  of  the  International 
Criminal Court. He is, in many respects, the founding 
father of modern international criminal law, to whom 
we are all deeply indebted for his legal wisdom and his 
moral insight. As Professor Bassiouni recognized,
“peace is not merely the absence of armed conflict. 
It is the restoration of justice, and the resort to the 
rule of law to mediate and resolve conflicts”.
It was in recognition of those very principles — the 
irreplaceable  role  of  justice  and  the  need  to  ensure 
accountability  for  horrific  violations  of  international 
law through the rule of law — that in 1993 the ICTY was 
established and, a year later, the International Criminal 
Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). The commitment of the 
United  Nations  to  seeking  accountability  when  faced 
with mass atrocities has continued apace over the past 
quarter century and continues to this day, both in this 
Hall and elsewhere in the Organization. The Mechanism 
was born of that same commitment to justice and the 
rule of law, in recognition of the fundamental need to 
ensure  that  the  remaining  fugitives  could  and  would 
still be called to account, even after the closure of the 
ICTY and the ICTR.
However, the creation of the Mechanism bespeaks 
something more — a recognition that, with justice, come 
certain  enduring  responsibilities,  which  remain  even 
after the Tribunals’ final judgments on trial or appeal 
have been handed down. I speak of responsibilities for 
vulnerable victims and witnesses who have been granted 
protection  to  facilitate  their  testimony,  for  convicted 
persons who are serving their sentences or are seeking 
to  have  them  revised,  for  States  and  individuals  that 
provided  sensitive  information  that  is  now  preserved 
in the invaluable archives of the two Tribunals and for 
those  communities  that  seek  to  ensure  accountability 
in  their  own  courts  for  the  terrible  crimes  that  were 
committed in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia.
to  fail 
to  meet 
Those  are  solemn  undertakings.  If  we  at  the 
Mechanism  were 
those  residual 
responsibilities,  it  would  be  a  failure  not  only  for 
the  legacies  of  the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY,  but  also  for 
international  justice,  risking  the  unravelling  of  all 
that has been built over the past quarter century. What 
victims and witnesses would come forward in future to 
give evidence on what they have seen in Syria, in Iraq 
or  in  countless  other  conflicts  if  it  becomes  apparent 
that  we  cannot  continue  to  provide  the  protections 
that  have  been  granted  to  victims  and  witnesses 
who  appeared  before  the  ICTR  and  the  ICTY?  What 
State  would  cooperate  with  future  investigations  by 
providing sensitive information if we cannot ensure the 
safeguarding of the confidential information that made 
possible  essential  elements  of  the  ad  hoc  tribunals’ 
work?  What  quality  of  justice  is  rendered  in  court  if, 
in years to come, we cannot guarantee that prisoners’ 
conditions of confinement remain consistent with basic 
human dignity?
The Mechanism’s mandate is indisputably limited 
in  material  and  temporal  scope,  and  its  functions  are 
residual in nature. However, our successful completion 
of that mandate is both the necessary consequence of 
what has already been achieved by international justice 
and an essential precursor to continued progress in our 
fight to end impunity for violations of international law.
4/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
As  set  forth  in  the  Mechanism’s  written  report 
(A/72/261),  submitted  in  August,  we  have  made 
important  strides  in  carrying  out  the  Mechanism’s 
mandate  over  the  course  of  the  past  year.  In  the  time 
remaining,  I  will  highlight  a  few  of  the  important 
developments set forth in our report.
First,  since  I  last  appeared  before  the  Assembly 
(see A/71/PV.44), the Mechanism has welcomed a new 
Registrar,  Mr.  Olufemi  Elias  of  Nigeria.  I  very  much 
appreciate his effective leadership of the Registry and 
the support that he gives me in my role as President.
The  Mechanism’s  Appeals  Chamber 
On the judicial front, the Mechanism commenced 
its  first  retrial  in  June,  in  the  case  of  Stanišić  and 
Simatović, and that trial proceeds apace. I am pleased 
to  report  that  in  the  case  of  Ngirabatware,  a  bench 
of  the  Mechanism’s  Appeals  Chamber,  as  originally 
constituted, was able to resume its work in June, and a 
hearing in that case will take place in the coming months.
remains 
seized of appeals in the cases of Karadžić and Šešelj, 
and  a  hearing  in  the  latter  case  has  been  scheduled 
for 13 December. The Appeals Chamber stands ready 
to  hear  any  appeal  that  may  follow  issuance  of  the 
ICTY  trial  judgment  in  the  case  of  Mladić,  which  is 
anticipated next month. All the while, the judges of the 
Mechanism  continue  to  address  a  variety  of  requests 
and applications, with the great majority of the judges 
working  part-time  from  their  homes  and  offices  the 
world over.
The judges of the Mechanism also stand ready to 
try the remaining fugitives indicted by the ICTR, and 
the  Mechanism’s  Prosecutor,  Mr.  Serge  Brammertz 
of  Belgium,  is  committed  to  arresting  and  bringing 
those fugitives to justice. His Office is refocusing and 
strengthening its efforts in that regard, recognizing that 
the window of opportunity will not remain open forever.
In  November  of  last  year,  the  Mechanism  opened 
its  landmark  new  premises  in  Arusha  at  a  ceremony 
presided over by Her Excellency Samia Hassan Suluhu, 
the Vice-President of the United Republic of Tanzania. 
In that context, I wish once again to record our sincere 
gratitude  to  the  Government  of  the  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  together  with  which  a  shared  vision  for 
the  future  has  been  realized  under  the  guidance  of 
the Assembly.
Over the course of the past year, staff in Arusha and 
The Hague have been working together to ramp up the 
Mechanism’s  administrative  capacity,  so  as  to  ensure 
smooth operations on both of the continents where the 
Mechanism  operates  following  the  ICTY’s  closure  at 
the end of this year. We remain grateful for all that the 
staff of both the ICTR and the ICTY have done over the 
years to provide administrative and other support to the 
Mechanism during the institutions’ respective periods 
of coexistence, and for the very significant economies 
gained through those arrangements.
In all that we do, we also remain dependent upon the 
ongoing support and cooperation of Member States. In 
Africa in particular, and in Europe, we have continued 
to work with partner States over the past year to make 
significant advances in areas such as the enforcement of 
sentences and the relocation of acquitted and released 
convicted  persons,  to  mention  but  two  key  areas  of 
fruitful cooperation. Simply put, the successful, timely 
and efficient completion of the Mechanism’s mandate 
will not be possible without the continued support and 
cooperation of Member States.
Professor  Bassiouni  once  wrote  —  quite 
rightly — that no price can be put on the value of doing 
what is right. At the same time, however, I am keenly 
aware that the resources to carry out our mandate are 
necessarily limited, and that our careful stewardship of 
those resources is itself a solemn responsibility. With 
that in mind, we must — and will — ensure that our 
work is undertaken with the greatest efficiency and the 
greatest efficacy and in the most cost-effective manner 
possible,  including  by  ensuring  that  our  judicial 
proceedings are conducted as expeditiously as possible. 
We  strive  to  continually  identify  and  implement  best 
practices  and 
innovations  wherever 
possible and to budget responsibly accordingly.
technological 
We  also  remain  ever  mindful  that  ours  is  a  small 
and  temporary  institution,  whose  functions  and  size 
will diminish over time, such that, even as we are in the 
final stages of establishing an administrative capacity 
to stand on our own and are entering a period of peak 
judicial activity, we are already planning for the steps 
necessary  to  scale  down  thereafter.  We  owe  nothing 
less  to  the  Organization  and  to  the  public  interest  of 
the international community at large, which, together, 
we serve.
Mr. Cheshire (New Zealand): I have the honour to 
speak today on behalf of Canada and Australia as well 
as my own country, New Zealand.
17-32745
5/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
Canada, Australia and New Zealand wish to reaffirm 
our  strong  support  for  the  work  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals. Their work accords with our long-standing 
support for efforts to break the cycle of impunity for the 
most serious international crimes, regardless of where 
they occur.
Speaking  for  my  own  country,  New  Zealand,  we 
feel a special sense of connection with the work of the 
Tribunals, as we were serving on the Security Council 
when  both  the  ICTY  and  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  were  established  24 
years ago.
Now, as we look ahead to the final months of the 
ICTY,  we  can  be  proud  of  its  achievements.  They 
include  delivering  justice  to  victims  of  some  of  the 
most horrific atrocities in recent history, the Tribunal’s 
contribution to international criminal law jurisprudence 
and international humanitarian law, the prosecution of 
sexual  and  gender-based  violence,  and  assisting  with 
the establishment of specialized war-crimes chambers 
in  the  region.  The  ICTY  has  rendered  justice  in  the 
complex criminal proceedings before it and has made, 
through  its  outreach  programme,  a  lasting  impact  on 
the region.
During 
the  course  of 
There have been challenges, but the two Tribunals 
leave behind a rich legacy that demonstrates what we 
can  achieve  when  we  all  work  together  towards  our 
common goals of accountability and of ending impunity 
for  those  who  commit  serious  international  crimes  in 
complex  conflict  situations.  We  look  forward  to  the 
Mechanism continuing that legacy.
the 
ICTY  mandate, 
proceedings  have  been  completed  for  161  individuals 
indicted  by  the  Tribunal.  The  Tribunal  is  working 
hard  to  deliver  the  judgments  in  the  two  remaining 
cases  on  time.  However,  as  we  have  heard,  serious 
challenges  remain  for  the  ICTY  to  complete  that 
work.  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  thank  the 
Tribunal  for  managing  the  challenges  in  fulfilling  its 
completion  strategy  and  focusing  its  resources  on  its 
core completion work, drawing on the lessons learned 
from  the  earlier  closing  of  the  ICTR.  We  welcome 
in  particular  the  practical  measures  adopted  by  the 
Tribunal in providing incentives for staff members to 
remain with the ICTY until the end of their contracts. 
We  commend  the  Tribunal  for  its  perseverance  on 
that issue.
As we pay tribute to the significant achievements 
of  the  ICTY,  the  reports  of  ongoing  and  widespread 
denial  and  revisionism  regarding  the  value  of  the 
Tribunal’s work are concerning. The important record 
of  the  crimes  and  facts  established  by  both  Tribunals 
cannot be understated. Acknowledgement of the crimes 
that  have  been  established  to  have  been  committed 
is  critical  in  order  to  prevent  such  atrocities  from 
occurring again.
effectiveness 
that 
the  flexibility 
to  maximizing 
We are pleased to see the Mechanism’s continued 
commitment 
and 
efficiencies,  building  upon  the  best  practice  of  both 
Tribunals.  We  commend 
the 
Mechanism has shown during the transition phase with 
the  ICTY,  including  through  the  one-office  approach 
and  dual-hatting  of  some  staff.  We  welcome  the 
Mechanism’s progress in exploring ways to address the 
issue of the relocation of those acquitted and of released 
persons remaining in the Arusha safe house, which led 
to the relocation of two more individuals in December. 
We  reiterate  our  call  for  the  Mechanism  to  develop  a 
process  for  risk-based  assessments  for  relocation  and 
encourage  the  Mechanism  and  States  to  continue  to 
work together to address that pressing issue.
The  cooperation  of  all  relevant  States  with  the 
ICTY  and  the  Mechanism  remains  essential  for  the 
fulfilment of their mandate. All States are required to 
cooperate  with  the  Tribunals  in  order  to  ensure  that 
justice is delivered. That obligation applies particularly 
to the States in the region. The obligation to cooperate 
fully with the ICTY and the Mechanism is set out in the 
Chapter  VII  resolutions,  which  also  require  States  to 
take any necessary measures under their domestic law 
to implement the resolutions establishing those bodies. 
They include the obligation to comply with requests for 
assistance  or  orders  issued.  Those  obligations  cannot 
be abrogated on the basis of domestic-law constraints.
We  therefore  urge  all  States  in  the  region  to  lend 
their full support both to the ICTY in the final months of 
its operation and to the Mechanism once it assumes full 
responsibility for ICTY functions. While we understand 
that it is important to respect the differing competencies 
of  the  judiciary  and  the  executive,  the  obligation  to 
cooperate  is  binding  and  cannot  be  avoided.  We  also 
encourage greater cooperation with the Mechanism so 
6/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
as  to  bring  to  justice  the  eight  individuals  who  have 
been indicted by the ICTR but remain at large.
The successful completion of the Tribunals’ work 
and  their  ultimate  legacy  for  international  criminal 
justice  is  dependent,  in  large  part,  on  the  individual 
and collective efforts of Member States. For our part, 
Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  will  continue 
to  offer  our  full  cooperation  to  the  ICTY  and  to  the 
Mechanism  to  give  practical  effect  to  our  steadfast 
commitment to international criminal justice.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr.  Chaboureau  (European  Union)  (spoke  in 
French):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union and its member States. The candidate 
countries of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Montenegro and Albania, as well as Ukraine, associate 
themselves with the following statement.
We thank Judge Carmel Agius for his presentation 
of  the  twenty-fourth  and  final  annual  report  of  the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons 
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International 
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the 
Former Yugoslavia since 1991 (A/72/266), which is the 
final report of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) under article 34 of the 
Statute of the Tribunal. We note with satisfaction that 
the Tribunal’s projections concerning the completion of 
ongoing judicial procedures in the cases The Prosecutor 
v. Ratko Mladić, on trial, and The Prosecutor v. Prlić et 
al., on appeal, remain the same. We can therefore expect 
the Tribunal to deliver its final verdicts in November.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  are 
gravely concerned by Serbia’s lack of cooperation with 
regard  to  the  arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Tribunal 
against  persons  accused  of  contempt  of  the  Tribunal 
within  the  framework  of  the  case  of  The  Prosecutor 
v.  Vojislav  Šešelj.  That  marks  Serbia’s  return  to  the 
practice of non-cooperation with the Tribunal in terms 
of the arrest and transfer of the indictees. The absence 
of  a  verdict  against  the  indictees  would  constitute  a 
failure both for the Tribunal, as the end of its mandate 
could  prevent  the  closure  of  those  cases,  and  for  the 
international  community  in  its  fight  against  impunity 
and for the promotion of international criminal justice.
We  call  on  Serbia,  as  a  country  negotiating  its 
accession to the European Union, to immediately begin 
working  with  the  Tribunal  so  as  to  execute  the  arrest 
warrants. Full and total cooperation with the Tribunal 
and  with  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal  Tribunals  remains  essential.  The  European 
Union insists that it is necessary for Serbia to cooperate 
fully  with  the  Tribunal,  including  by  unreservedly 
accepting  and 
judgments  and 
decisions of the ICTY.
implementing 
the 
We congratulate all of the bodies of the Tribunal on 
their activities throughout the reporting period. In that 
vein, we thank Judge Carmel Agius for the visits he has 
paid  to  Governments  and  international  organizations, 
especially European Union institutions, with a view to 
ensuring their support and cooperation.
With  regard  to  the  closure  of  the  Tribunal,  we 
attach great importance to the unhindered liquidation 
of  the  Tribunal’s  assets  and  liabilities,  as  well  as  to 
the  transition  to  the  Mechanism.  We  also  commend 
the  Tribunal  for  its  positive  achievements  in  terms  of 
establishing gender balance among its staff.
The  prosecution  of  serious  crimes  by  national 
courts  in  the  region  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  is 
essential  for  the  consolidation  of  the  rule  of  law,  the 
quest  for  the  truth,  reconciliation  among  its  peoples 
and,  consequently,  the  maintenance  of  peace  in  the 
region.  In  that  regard,  the  work  of  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor aimed at cooperating with its counterparts 
in the countries concerned and improving the capacity, 
independence and impartiality of their judicial systems 
so as to assist them in prosecuting such serious crimes 
is fundamentally important.
in 
the  region  of 
Despite  the  progress  noted  by  the  Prosecutor 
concerning  the  prosecution  of  war  crimes,  crimes  of 
genocide  and  crimes  against  humanity  by  national 
judicial  authorities 
the  former 
Yugoslavia,  we  are  deeply  disappointed  by  the  trends 
observed  in  a  number  of  candidate  and  potential 
candidate  countries  to  the  European  Union  to  deny 
crimes  committed  during  the  conflict  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia and to reject facts that have been established 
through the Tribunal’s judgments. Revisionism and the 
defence  of  war  crimes  undoubtedly  represent  a  threat 
to the stability of the entire region. In that framework, 
judicial cooperation under international law, including 
international  criminal  law,  provides  an  instrument  to 
combat  such  trends  and  strengthens  efforts  to  ensure 
regional stability.
17-32745
7/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
A  few  months  prior  to  the  Tribunal’s  closure,  the 
European Union and its member States will pay tribute 
to the 7,000 employees, as well as the 87 Judges, five 
Prosecutors and four Registrars, who have worked for 
the Tribunal over the past 24 years. The Tribunal has 
completely fulfilled the mission entrusted to it by the 
Security Council, which was to prevent serious crimes 
committed during the armed conflicts that took place 
in  the  former  Yugoslavia  in  the  1990s  from  going 
unpunished.  We  would  like  once  again  to  draw  the 
attention  of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  Tribunal’s 
contribution to the maintenance of peace and stability 
in a region that was formerly at war.
Moreover,  the  contribution  of  the  Tribunal  to  the 
implementation of international humanitarian law and 
international criminal law is significant and its legacy 
must  be  preserved  not  only  for  the  benefit  of  future 
generations in general, but also, more specifically, for 
the  benefit  of  other  criminal  international  criminal 
courts, including the International Criminal Court, as 
well as national courts and tribunals. It is therefore of the 
utmost importance that an appropriate implementation 
of  international  humanitarian  law  and  international 
criminal law continue to be the guiding principle of the 
Tribunal until the end of its mandate.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
welcomed the very positive outcome of the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia Legacy Dialogues 
Conference, held in Sarajevo in June as part of a series, 
and look forward to the outcome of the symposium to 
be held in The Hague on 18 December, which will be 
followed by the closing ceremony for the Tribunal on 
21 December.
Concerning  the  Mechanism,  the  European  Union 
and its member States thank President Theodor Meron 
for  transmitting  the  fifth  annual  report  (A/72/261)  of 
the  Mechanism  in  accordance  with  article  32  (1)  of 
its  statute.  We  welcome  the  close  cooperation  that  it 
has  established  with  the  Tribunal.  It  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  that  those  two  judicial  institutions  work 
closely  together  during  the  remaining  period  of  the 
Tribunal’s  mandate  so  as  to  enable  the  Mechanism  to 
exercise the residual functions of the Tribunal.
We commend all the entities of the Mechanism for 
the  work  accomplished  during  the  period  covered  by 
the  report.  We  take  note  of  the  provisional  release  of 
Judge  Aydin  Sefa  Akay,  thanks  to  which  the  review 
proceedings in the case of The Prosecutor v. Augustin 
Ngirabatware  were  able  to  resume.  We  call  for  new 
measures  to  resolve  that  matter  with  full  respect  for 
international law.
We  welcome  the  work  of  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor aimed at locating the eight persons at large 
and trying them before the Mechanism or a court under 
Rwandan jurisdiction. We express our gratitude to the 
international organizations and Governments that have 
helped the task forces established by the Office of the 
Prosecutor to locate the fugitives.
As in the case of the Tribunal, we believe that the 
prosecution  by  national  jurisdictions  of  the  crimes 
committed  in  Rwanda  is  crucial  to  the  fight  against 
impunity. The assistance provided by the Office of the 
Prosecutor is of paramount importance in that regard.
We welcomed the inauguration of the new premises 
of  the  Arusha  branch  of  the  Mechanism  in  Tanzania 
on  25  November  2016.  We  support  the  Mechanism’s 
preference  for  maintaining  the  current  premises  at 
The Hague after the Tribunal’s closure. Keeping those 
premises  open  will  facilitate  the  transfer  of  residual 
functions  of  the  Tribunal  to  the  Mechanism,  thereby 
contributing to the effectiveness of the Mechanism and 
to its cost-effectiveness.
With  regard  to  the  enforcement  of  sentences, 
we  would  like  to  thank  the  Member  States  that  have 
concluded  agreements  with  the  Mechanism  for  the 
implementation  of  the  relevant  penalties  on  their 
territory,  and  we  encourage  other  Member  States  to 
conclude  similar  agreements.  We  are  grateful  to  the 
African  States  that  have  agreed  to  host  released  or 
acquitted  persons  on  their  territory,  and  encourage 
other Member States to conclude such agreements with 
the Mechanism in that area.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  will 
continue to be firm advocates of international criminal 
justice,  the  mission  of  which  is  the  promotion  of  the 
rule of law, combating impunity and the maintenance of 
international peace and security. We call on all States 
to  cooperate  with  the  Tribunal  until  the  end  of  2017 
and thereafter with the Mechanism in full compliance 
with their obligations as set out in the relevant Security 
Council resolutions.
Ms.  Kuret  (Slovenia):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to 
represent  the  Republic  of  Slovenia  in  this  important 
discussion. Slovenia aligns itself with the statement just 
delivered on behalf of the European Union. In addition, 
8/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
we  wish  to  contribute  to  today’s  discussion  from  our 
national perspective.
First, allow me to express Slovenia’s appreciation 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  Judge  Agius,  and  to  the 
President of the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals, Judge Meron, for their respective 
informative  reports  (A/72/266  and  A/72/261)  on 
developments within the Court and the Mechanism.
Following  more  than  24  years  of  hard  work  with 
historic  achievements  and  many  lessons  learned,  the 
ICTY will close by the end of this year. Today’s occasion 
warrants a reflection on the Court’s accomplishments 
and legacy. Slovenia takes this opportunity to express its 
utmost appreciation to the Tribunal for all its endeavours 
and to pay tribute to its far-reaching contribution.
The ICTY was established in response to a dire need 
to  deal  with  some  of  the  most  tragic  events  in  recent 
times. It was established as a unique tool for combating 
impunity through the authority of the Security Council. 
The  establishment,  functioning  and 
jurisprudence 
of  the  ICTY  have  all  contributed  importantly  to 
enhancing  and  consolidating  international  criminal 
law and international humanitarian law. The Court has 
been instrumental in bringing about justice and giving 
a  voice  to  thousands  of  victims  of  the  most  heinous 
crimes.  It  has  inspired  the  international  concept  of 
transitional justice and affirmed the critical importance 
of outreach activities. Moreover, the Court contributed 
to the establishment of facts and the strengthening of 
national  capacities,  and,  importantly,  it  affirmed  that 
no one is above the law, not even leading politicians.
It is therefore not surprising that the ICTY inspired 
the  establishment  of  other 
international  criminal 
courts,  including  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
which  is  the  first  of  its  kind.  Despite  the  ICTY’s 
numerous and historic accomplishments, however, the 
process has not been without challenges and criticism. 
A sense of incompleteness remains, not least due to the 
fact that not all of those who were indicted were given 
a  final  verdict.  The  lessons  that  we  learned  from  the 
experiences of the ICTY are therefore relevant in terms 
of making further improvements.
Given the proximity of the Western Balkan region to 
Slovenia, we have followed the work and developments 
of the Court closely. We remain aware of the persistent 
challenges, 
rise  of  nationalism. 
Intolerance, outstanding bilateral issues and the pursuit 
including 
the 
of  particular  political  interests  across  the  region  also 
stand in the way of needed reform. Sadly, the region is 
still  burdened  by  memories  and  resentment.  Ongoing 
impunity for crimes committed on the territory of the 
former Yugoslavia only deepens that sentiment.
Further, 
the  growing 
instances  of  crimes 
committed during the conflict in the former Yugoslavia 
being denied are a source of concern. The revisionism 
and  glorification  of  war  crimes  are 
indubitably 
counterproductive to the stability of the region. As part 
of  its  foreign-policy  priorities,  Slovenia  is  striving  to 
contribute to reconciliation in the territory of the former 
Yugoslavia and stability in the Western Balkan region. 
That is why Slovenia has always resolutely supported 
the work of the ICTY.
It  is  our  firm  conviction  that  concluding  trials 
against  individuals  charged  with  atrocity  crimes  is 
essential for the past to be accepted and responsibility 
assumed. This, in turn, is decisive for paving the way 
to long-term peace and reconciliation among nations of 
the  region.  Teaching  objective  historical  truth  is  also 
essential  for  greater  development  and  stability  in  the 
region; it is the best way to ensure a better future — one 
that  is  not  burdened  with  the  past  —  for  the  young 
generation. Against this background, Slovenia wishes to 
commend the Court for its legacy strategy. In particular, 
we  welcome  the  idea  of  establishing  information 
centres  in  the  countries  concerned.  This  will  ensure 
that information about the work of the ICTY remains 
accessible to the public.
Slovenia is pleased that all 161 individuals indicted 
for serious violations of international humanitarian law 
have been accounted for. This is an important aspect of 
the Court’s success. Accordingly, we wish to reiterate 
that full and prompt cooperation with the Court, which 
is prescribed by international law, remains crucial.
Respect  for  and  application  of  decisions  by 
international  tribunals  cannot  depend  on  political 
convenience. Instead, they should reflect a commitment 
to respect for the rule of law. Any other approach would 
be  perceived  as  no  more  than  a  deliberate  failure  to 
comply with the obligations set forth by international 
law. As the ICTY is slowly winding down its operations, 
it will be vital for countries to show a commitment to 
combating impunity at the national level, in good faith 
and with due respect for the principles of res judicata 
and ne bis in idem. In these efforts, judicial cooperation 
will continue to play an important role.
17-32745
9/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
Just as the Nuremberg and Tokyo trials form part of 
our collective memory, the ICTY will leave a permanent 
mark  through  its  normative  and  non-judicial  legacy, 
which  will  continue  beyond  the  Tribunal’s  closure  to 
inform the work of national, regional and international 
jurisdictions.  Furthermore,  the  legacy  of  the  ICTY 
will inform the consideration of such critical issues as 
the  quality  of  judges  and  the  importance  of  effective 
cooperation  and  financial  stability.  This  legacy  will 
also remind us to manage expectations so as to avoid 
raising unattainable hopes.
But  most  importantly,  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunal 
should be a pledge by the international community to 
the  world  that  those  responsible  for  atrocities  will  be 
brought  to  justice.  It  should  be  a  reminder  to  future 
generations  that  the  most  tragic  chapters  in  recent 
European  history  should  never  be  repeated.  Slovenia 
looks forward to the completion of the ICTY mandate, 
its  timely  closure  and  an  efficient  transition  process 
to the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals. We remain committed to promoting the rule 
of law and accountability.
Mrs. Rugwabiza (Rwanda): I thank Judges Agius 
and  Meron  for  their  briefings  on  the  activities  of 
the courts.
More  than  20  years  ago,  the  Security  Council 
decided to create the Tribunals to try those responsible 
for  serious  violations.  In  this  regard,  the  systems  we 
create always require us to look back and check their 
usefulness. It is within this perspective that Rwanda is 
participating  in  today’s  debate  —  to  see  whether  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunals  in  place  have  met 
expectations in terms of ensuring accountability.
While  Rwanda  remains  concerned  that  several 
fugitives, including the three top-priority figures, are 
still at large, we commend the efforts of Office of the 
Prosecutor  in  its  efforts  to  reform  and  strengthen  its 
fugitive-tracking unit. Our wish is to see this initiative 
give  rise  to  tangible  results.  We  also  appreciate  the 
cooperation  between  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals  and  Rwanda’s  national  prosecution  office. 
We reiterate our call to States Members of the United 
Nations  to  collaborate  with  the  Rwanda  national 
prosecution  office  and  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
of  the  Mechanism  to  arrest  fugitive  perpetrators  of 
genocide, pursuant to Security Council resolutions, and 
urge the Member States harbouring those fugitives to 
honour  their  obligations  under  international  law  and 
arrest them.
Rwanda  will 
limit 
to 
its  observations 
the 
performance of the International Criminal Tribunal for 
Rwanda  (ICTR),  which  was  given  the  mission  by  the 
Security Council to contribute to the process of national 
reconciliation and the restoration of international peace, 
to stating that, in our experience, these objectives are 
far from having been achieved. The simple reason for 
that  is  that  most  of  the  master-planners  of  the  1994 
genocide are still at large.
I would like to speak to the issue of early release. 
Rwanda is deeply concerned at the alarming number of 
pardons and of convicted masterminds of the genocide 
being granted early release, despite the gravity of the 
crimes committed, namely, the crimes of genocide and 
crimes  against  humanity.  This  use  of  early  release  is 
in total disregard of the rules of procedure. While the 
rules of procedure for the Mechanism for the Criminal 
Tribunals are very clear with respect to the commutation 
of sentences and pardons, the Practice Direction on the 
procedure  for  the  determination  of  applications  for 
early release does not provide for transparency in the 
process.  Nor  does  it  allow  for  any  form  of  recourse, 
as it excludes consultations with prosecutors, national 
judges  and  the  Government  of  Rwanda,  although  the 
rules  of  procedure  and  evidence  clearly  stipulate  that 
the Government of Rwanda should be notified of any 
application and request for early release.
In  addition,  in  cases  where  those  convicted  have 
been  granted  early  release,  there  are  no  measures  in 
place  for  ongoing  monitoring  to  guarantee  that  these 
individuals  are  not  re-engaging  in  genocide  ideology. 
Indeed,  there  is  publicly  available  evidence  that  the 
beneficiaries  of  early  release  by  the  Mechanism 
are  now  actively  spreading  genocide  ideology  with 
total impunity.
The International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals does not require convicts to sign statements 
indicating that they understand that any early release is 
subject to certain conditions. It is clear that even when 
granted early release or a reduced sentence, a convict is 
in no way impeded from continuing to promote the kinds 
of divisive, sectarian and genocide ideology described 
in  the  progress  report  submitted  by  the  Prosecutor  to 
the  Security  Council  (see  S/2017/434,  annex  II).  We 
also note that the progress report discusses increasing 
incidents of denial of genocide, which are warning signs 
10/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
that must not be ignored by the General Assembly, as 
they could undermine the great strides that have been 
made in past decades towards ending impunity for war 
crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity.
In conclusion, I wish to point out that, with respect 
to monitoring cases referred to national courts, we note 
with regret from the Prosecutor’s reports that no action 
has been taken by several countries in the 10 years that 
they have had cases referred to them. Repeated delays 
in  proceedings  in  cases  referred  by  the  ICTR,  now 
the  Mechanism,  are  tantamount  to  a  denial  of  justice 
and  make  it  difficult  for  these  institutions’  stated 
commitment to international justice and the protection 
of  all  human  rights,  including  the  right  to  justice,  to 
be credible.
Mr. Backović (Serbia): It is my honour to address 
the  General  Assembly  today  as  the  representative  of 
the Republic of Serbia. I would like to welcome Judge 
Carmel Agius, President of the International Criminal 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), and Judge 
Theodor Meron, President of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, and thank them for 
their annual reports (A/72/266 and A/72/261).
The  common  goals  of  Member  States  related  to 
the  key  principles  of  international  criminal  law  and 
international humanitarian law have led, inter alia, to 
the  establishment  of  two  main  tracks  to  fight  against 
impunity  for  the  most  serious  international  crimes. 
First, Member States renounce a significant part of their 
competencies  with  regard  to  the  prosecution  of  war 
crimes  in  favour  of  international  criminal  tribunals. 
Secondly,  they  work  to  establish  and  improve  the 
quality of special mechanisms in their national judicial 
systems so as to strengthen them, leading thereby to the 
efficient prosecution of war crimes.
Efforts  made  by  individual  States  to  achieve 
tangible results on both tracks are not always equally 
fruitful, but they are also not always judged equitably. 
The same is true of the assessment of the ICTY’s efforts 
when  its  results  are  compared  to  those  of  individual 
States. However, if we take note of the steps taken to 
date by Serbia to date in this regard, it is hard to deny 
the  fact  that  Serbia  is  probably  the  only  country  that 
has  successfully  fulfilled  its  roles  on  the  two  tracks 
related to prosecuting war crimes, in particular serious 
international crimes. In other words, Serbia is second 
to none when it comes to the prosecution of war crimes 
and its cooperation with the ICTY.
With respect to the obligation to cooperate with the 
ICTY, Serbia has fully complied at both the legislative 
and implementation levels. Our criminal legislation is 
fully aligned with relevant standards, which allows us 
too cooperate with the ICTY without exception in terms 
of all acts that the Security Council recognized in the 
ICTY  Statute  as  serious  international  crimes.  Based 
on this legislation, Serbia has proved its commitment, 
which is seen in the number and rank of defendants who 
have been surrendered to the ICTY.
The  Republic  of  Serbia  has  handed  over  to  the 
Tribunal  45  of  the  total  of  46  defendants  whose 
surrender  was  demanded  from  Serbia.  One  defendant 
committed  suicide  before  he  could  be  handed  over  to 
the Tribunal. We are therefore speaking about 100 per 
cent compliance. Of the 45 defendants turned over, 14 
were arrested in Serbia, 4 were arrested abroad within 
the framework of cooperation among national security 
services  and  foreign  agencies,  and  27  defendants 
voluntarily surrendered.
In addition to numbers, I must point out the rank of 
the persons surrendered. Almost all of them were highly 
ranked officials. Some even occupied leading positions 
in  the  Serbian  army  and  the  executive  branch  of  the 
Administration. This shows that Serbia has cooperated 
with the ICTY without compromise. I am not sure that 
the same could be said about any other State.
In addition, Serbia provided the ICTY Prosecutor 
with  free  access  to  important  evidence  located  in 
Serbia, such as documents, archives and witnesses. To 
date,  Serbia  has  positively  resolved  all  2,183  requests 
for assistance received from the Offices of the ICTY. 
In  addition,  all  2,172  requests  we  received  from  the 
Office  of  the  ICTY  Prosecutor  have  been  granted. 
Serbia  allowed  759  witnesses  to  testify  freely  despite 
the rights or obligations they had to withhold testimony 
on  the  grounds  that  State,  military  or  official  secrets 
were  involved.  Another  1,338  requests  were  made  by 
various defence teams to the Serbian authorities; none 
of these requests for assistance remain pending, nor are 
they any outstanding disputes.
Furthermore,  Government 
Serbia  carried  out  all  11  requests  for  witness 
protection. 
agencies 
successfully monitored all provisional release cases and 
ensured that all the accused were returned to detention 
under  ICTY  supervision  upon  request.  Currently,  the 
Serbian  authorities  are  monitoring  only  one  case  of 
provisional release.
17-32745
11/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
With  respect  to  the  other  track,  Serbia  has 
continuously  worked  to  improve  its  national  judicial 
system, in line with the strategic course provided in the 
Action  Plan  for  Chapter  23  and  the  national  strategy 
for  the  prosecution  of  war  crimes  adopted  by  the 
Government in 2016. To streamline reform processes, the 
Serbian Government recently established a monitoring 
mechanism  to  closely  oversee  the  implementation  of 
the national strategy. The mechanism is coordinated by 
a working group headed by the Minister of Justice and 
the newly elected War Crimes Prosecutor. We believe 
that the mechanism will make a significant contribution 
to the dynamics of reform.
In  parallel,  Serbian  authorities  are  working  on 
strengthening  the  capacities  of  the  Office  of  the  War 
Crimes  Prosecutor.  Two  indictments  for  war  crimes 
against  six  individuals  were  issued  in  Serbia  in  2016. 
Some 420 cases are currently under review by the War 
Crimes Prosecutor and awaiting a decision as to whether 
they will be prosecuted. The monitoring of war-crimes-
trial proceedings by the Organization for Security and 
Cooperation  in  Europe’s  Mission  to  Serbia  and  civil-
society  organizations  remains  ongoing,  and  special 
training is being provided to judges, public prosecutors 
and  police  officers  participating  in  the  investigation 
and prosecution of war crimes. The Ministry of Justice 
recently completed comprehensive analysis activities in 
preparation  for  the  drafting  and  adoption  of  the  new 
national  strategy  to  improve  the  situation  of  victims 
and witnesses.
We  fully  support  the  comments  made  in  the 
ICTY  report  on  the  importance  of  reconciliation  and 
cooperation in the region, and our commitment to this 
idea  is  made  clear  in  the  statistical  data  on  regional 
cooperation. According to statistics from the Office of 
the War Crimes Prosecutor, in 2017, Serbia resolved 32 
out of 50 requests from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ten 
requests were denied, while eight are still pending. Six 
out of 15 requests from Croatia have been resolved; none 
were  denied,  but  nine  are  still  pending.  Meanwhile, 
only 16 out of 30 Serbian requests have been positively 
resolved  by  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  The  results  are 
even worse with respect to the requests for assistance 
that  we  submitted  to  Croatia —  only  two  out  of  nine 
requests have been positively resolved.
Despite all the facts that prove Serbia’s commitment 
to  the  efficient  and  non-selective  prosecution  of  war 
crimes, there are unfortunately some parts of the ICTY 
Prosecutor’s  report  contained  in  S/2017/436  that  go 
significantly  beyond  the  facts,  the  law  and  even  the 
basic rule of law and principles of democratic society. 
In this report, in the case of Prosecutor v. Petar Jojić 
et  al.,  the  Serbian  obligation  to  respect  the  decisions 
of independent Serbian courts is seen as an absence of 
political will to cooperate with the ICTY.
The Jojić case is one of contempt of court. It is not 
a war-crime case, nor is it a case of an alleged serious 
war crime; rather, it is a case of contempt of court for 
the  alleged  intimidation  of  witnesses.  Serbian  courts 
ruled that these indictees could not be extradited to the 
ICTY,  as  that  is  not  provided  for  in  Serbian  law.  The 
relevant Serbian law is a word-for-word translation of 
ICTY  Statute.  Therefore,  not  only  does  Serbian  law 
not  provide  for  extradition  of  persons  who  were  not 
indicted for serious war crimes, but the ICTY Statute 
also clearly excludes extradition for alleged crimes that 
are  not  serious  war  crimes.  I  ask  everyone  present  to 
please read the Statute, or better yet, have their lawyers 
read the Statute.
Why  does  the  Statute  not  provide  for  the  type  of 
extradition that is being sought by the Tribunal? There 
are  two  possibilities.  First,  this  type  of  extradition 
may have intentionally not been provided for, which is 
most  likely,  given  that  the  Statute  explicitly  provides 
for the extradition of only those accused of serious war 
crimes. In other words, if the Statute does not provide 
for extradition for those accused of crimes other than 
serious war crimes, then, naturally, it will not provide 
for  the  extradition  of  people  indicted  or  accused  of 
lesser, ancillary crimes; that much is obvious. Secondly, 
pursuant to the explanation proffered by the ICTY, if the 
drafters of the Statute had in fact intended to provide 
for  the  extradition  of  indictees  for  crimes  other  than 
serious war crimes, their failure to actually do so was 
a substantial error on their part. If they had wanted to 
provide for such extradition in the Statute, they should 
have put it in the Statute.
  Regardless  of  which  of 
these  hypothetical 
explanations is accurate, it is simply erroneous to now 
require  the  Serbian  Government  to  fix  the  problem 
or  mistake.  It  is  equally  wrong  to  label  the  Serbian 
Government’s  adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  in  this 
case as a lack of political will. I submit to the General 
Assembly that the rule of law cannot be advanced by 
violating the rule of law.
The  ICTY  has  completed  its  operations,  but  I  am 
not  sure  that  it  can  be  said  that  it  has  accomplished 
12/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
its  mission.  In  my  foregoing  remarks,  I  have  briefly 
described the steps that Serbia has taken to deal with 
war  crimes.  However,  if  we  apply  the  same  criteria 
used  to  assess  Serbia  to  assess  the  ICTY’s  results, 
I  would  say  that  the  outcome  could  be  negative,  in 
terms  of  the  average  length  of  proceedings,  the  lack 
of  respect  for  procedural  guarantees  for  the  accused, 
and  the  national  character  of  defendants,  decisions 
and  sentences.  However,  none  of  this  will  influence 
Serbia’s  commitment  to  the  non-selective  prosecution 
of war crimes.
Mr.  Arrocha  Olabuenaga 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  once 
again the indisputable need for us to work together on 
promoting the basic values and common understanding 
of future cooperation and reconciliation in the region. 
Without  further  challenging  the  ICTY  results  in  this 
regard, I believe that the milestone of future regional 
stability  should  be  reached  through  the  efforts  of 
individual  countries  in  the  region,  as  well  as  in  their 
active, open and constructive dialogue and cooperation.
(spoke 
in  Spanish):  Mexico  expresses  its  appreciation  to 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia for the valuable work that it has carried out 
during  its  24  years  of  operation.  As  the  first  ad  hoc 
international criminal tribunal created by the Security 
Council under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  the  Tribunal  is  undoubtedly  a  landmark, 
historic  achievement.  Its  jurisprudence  has  greatly 
contributed  to  the  interpretation  and  development  of 
international criminal law, which for four decades had 
relied exclusively on the legacies of the Nuremberg and 
the Far East tribunals.
(Mexico) 
The rulings of the Tribunal have set precedents that 
are used in the work of the other international and hybrid 
criminal tribunals that were subsequently established, 
including,  of  course, 
the  International  Criminal 
Court.  The  fact  that  the  Tribunal  has  succeeded  in 
the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  the  161  indicted 
individuals and that there are no remaining fugitives is 
a clear success story that serves as an example for all 
tribunals to come.
Mexico  commends  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
Tribunal  to  complete  its  work  and  fulfil  its  mandate 
by  the  end  of  2017,  in  full  respect  of  procedural 
guarantees  and  the  rights  of  the  defendants  to  a  fair 
trial.  We  also  commend  the  Tribunal’s  efforts  aimed 
at  ensuring  the  timely  and  effective  transfer  of  its 
functions to the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals.
Mexico  participated  actively  in  the  negotiations 
towards and, since 2010, has supported the establishment 
of the Residual Mechanism. We welcome the progress 
that the Mechanism has made so far. We recognize that 
its work is essential, not only to complete the residual 
judicial  tasks  of  the  predecessor  Tribunals,  including 
appeals  and  the  ongoing  protection  of  witnesses  and 
victims,  but  also  to  preserve  and  disseminate  the 
valuable  international  criminal  law  legacy  that  the 
Tribunals have left behind.
Finally,  beyond  welcoming  the  progress  made  by 
the  Tribunals  and  the  Mechanism,  Mexico  wishes  to 
reiterate its full commitment to fighting impunity for 
the  most  serious  international  crimes  of  international 
concern and to international criminal justice in general.
Ms.  Sapag  Muñoz  de  la  Peña  (Chile)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): Once again, Chile welcomes the outstanding 
work  that  has  been  carried  out  by  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals.  Their  firm  commitment  to  concluding 
pending  proceedings  expeditiously  and  in  accordance 
with the rules of due process has been clearly reflected 
in  the  briefings  of  their  respective  presidents,  Judge 
Carmel  Agius  and  Judge  Theodor  Meron,  and  in 
their  annual  reports  (A/72/266  and  A/72/261),  all  of 
which  my  delegation  has  followed  with  great  interest 
and attention.
In  this  crucial  year  for  the  fulfilment  of  the 
Tribunal’s  completion  strategy,  Chile  welcomes  the 
solid  progress  made  towards  this  end,  with  only  two 
cases  left  for  deliberation  in  November.  We  regret, 
however, that the repeated calls for greater international 
cooperation  in  situations  where  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  had  alleged  State  inaction  for  the  failure 
to execute arrest warrants that had been issued by the 
Tribunal,  have  gone  unheeded.  Full  cooperation  with 
the  Tribunal  and  its  officials  remains  essential.  We 
wish to express particular appreciation for the Legacy 
Dialogues, which represent an additional effort aimed 
at bringing the Tribunal’s work closer to the region that 
inspired its establishment and to publicly embody the 
achievements  in  terms  of  due  accountability,  the  end 
of impunity and the progressive development of norms 
that shape international law.
17-32745
13/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
With  regard  to  the  Residual  Mechanism  and  its 
two  branches  —  in  Arusha  and  The  Hague  —  Chile 
welcomes  the  fulfilment  of  the  many  tasks  aimed  at 
effectively  and  efficiently  resolving  the  outstanding 
issues  arising  from  the  completion  strategy  of  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunals  for  Rwanda  and  the 
former Yugoslavia. In particular, we acknowledge and 
share the priorities that the Office of the Prosecutor has 
put  in  place  to  complete  the  proceedings  that  remain 
open, locate and arrest the eight fugitives sentenced by 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  and 
assist national jurisdictions in prosecuting international 
crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
Preserving the legacy of the International Criminal 
Tribunals  and  the  Mechanism  is  a  current  challenge 
of  concern  to  the  entire  international  community. 
Through  this  legacy,  the  architecture  of  international 
justice is strengthened, making it vital for other courts 
and  tribunals,  particularly  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  which  considers  the  Rwanda  and  Yugoslavia 
Tribunals  to  be  affiliated  bodies  that  we  are  called 
to  respect  and  promote  in  the  fight  against  the  most 
serious crimes and to bring about an end to impunity.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  what  a  privilege 
it was for Chile to lead the Security Council Informal 
Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals  during 
the  biennium  2014-2015,  which  we  took  over  from 
Guatemala  and  passed  on  to  Uruguay,  which  now 
chairs the Working Group. It is with gratitude and the 
conviction  that  goes  with  recognizing  the  importance 
of  this  chapter  in  the  history  of  international  justice 
that my country congratulates everyone involved in this 
praiseworthy task.
Mr.  Zagaynov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We thank the leadership of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY) 
and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals  for  their  reports  on  the  activities  of  these 
bodies, submitted to the General Assembly on a yearly 
basis (A/72/266 and A/72/261).
We  welcome  the  commitment  expressed  by  the 
leadership  of  the  ICTY  to  completing  all  trials  at  the 
Tribunal  and  closing  it  by  the  end  of  2017.  As  we  all 
know, this should have happened in 2010. However, this 
deadline  —  and  others  mentioned  in  resolution  2329 
(2016) — were, unfortunately, missed.
Today’s  meeting  ends  our  discussion  of 
the 
Tribunal’s  reports  in  the  General  Assembly.  We  take 
note  of  the  efforts  made  by  the  leadership  of  the 
Tribunal to prevent any postponements and to announce 
pending decisions in November, as scheduled. Despite 
the  open  contempt  case  commenced  by  the  Tribunal 
in the context of the completed trial of Vojislav Šešelj, 
we believe this should not influence the course of the 
closure of the ICTY.
The report of the ICTY touches upon the issue of 
the legacy of the Tribunal. Once again, the results of the 
work of the Tribunal have yet to be impartially analysed, 
not  only  in  terms  of  the  convictions  and  acquittals 
it  handed  down,  but  also  in  terms  of  the  genuine 
impact  it  has  had  on  the  processes  of  reconciliation 
and  restoration  of  confidence  among  the  peoples  of 
the  former  Yugoslavia.  Given  the  problems  that  have 
been  accumulating  within  the  Tribunal  for  years,  we 
do not think that the assessment will be unequivocally 
positive.  Our  position  on  this  issue  has  been  voiced 
repeatedly,  and  we  believe  that  serious  flaws  in  the 
Tribunal’s  functioning  over  an  extended  period  will 
continue to have a negative impact on the prospects for 
international criminal justice. We hope that the ICTY’s 
activities during its final stretch will not give us new 
reasons to be critical of it.
During the reporting period, the appeal of the verdict 
in the case of The Prosecutor v. Augustin Ngirabatware
was placed on the docket of the Residual Mechanism. 
We hope that information about the expected duration 
of  this  and  other  legal  proceedings  in  the  Residual 
Mechanism  will  be  set  forth  more  substantively  in  a 
future report.
We have also read the sections of the report devoted 
to  the  activities  of  the  Residual  Mechanism  in  terms 
of  capacity-building  for  national  judicial  bodies  that 
conduct  criminal  prosecution  in  war-crimes  cases. 
We  noted  the  truly  global  nature  of  efforts  made  by 
the  Prosecutors  in  this  area.  Work  is  being  done  in 
countries  that  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  situations 
currently under review by the ICTY and the Residual 
Mechanism. We hope that such activity is not being paid 
for out of the United Nations budget. In any event, we 
doubt the appropriateness of the Residual Mechanism 
training prosecutors and advertising its own successes.
In  this  regard,  I  would  again  like  to  recall  that, 
pursuant  to  resolution  1966  (2010),  the  Residual 
Mechanism  is  a  temporary  entity  with  a  clearly 
delineated mandate; it is not a new international court. 
We therefore call for strict observance of this Security 
14/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
Council resolution. We expect the Residual Mechanism 
not to be distracted by tasks outside its mandate. Rather, 
it should focus on closing the cases that will have been 
referred to it following the closure of the ICTY and on 
ensuring  maximum  efficiency  in  legal  proceedings, 
including the length of trials.
Mr. García Reyes (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  are  grateful  for  the  presentation  of  the  twenty-
fourth  annual  report  of  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  Serious 
Violations  of 
International  Humanitarian  Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
since 1991 (A/72/266), which we understand to be the 
last  annual  report  of  the  Tribunal  before  its  closure, 
which is scheduled for 31 December.
My  delegation  has  noted  how  the  Tribunal  has 
continued to make significant progress in finalizing its 
completion strategy. We also note that the 161 persons 
accused of serious violations of international law have 
already been tried, leaving only two substantive cases. 
We welcome the fact that both cases have advanced at 
an  appropriate  pace  to  be  able  to  issue  the  respective 
rulings  before  30  November.  We  also  commend  the 
efforts of judges and staff aimed at fulfilling all of the 
Tribunal’s responsibilities in a punctual manner.
We would like to add that Guatemala has welcomed 
the fact that in addition to carrying out judicial functions, 
the  Tribunal’s  liquidation  efforts  have  remained  a 
priority, and, in fact, its pace has accelerated during the 
period  covered  by  the  report  before  us,  which  shows 
that the Tribunal is resolved to carry out the liquidation 
process  smoothly  and  successfully.  As  part  of  those 
activities, we are pleased to note that the twenty-fourth 
annual report outlines the Tribunal’s activities for the 
period from 1 August 2016 to 31 July 2017 and shows that 
each body of the Tribunal continued to take measures 
to complete its mandate by the end of this year, not only 
with regard to the conclusion of judicial proceedings, 
but also focusing on the need for an efficient liquidation 
process  and  a  smooth  transition  to  the  International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
Guatemala  wishes  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Tribunal  and  its  other  officials  for  what  is  contained 
in the report and for the environment on the ground as 
they leave the field. Each of them took full advantage 
of every opportunity to strengthen the Tribunal’s image 
inside  and  outside  of  the  former  Yugoslavia,  through 
their  Legacy  Dialogues  and  in  all  the  steps  they  are 
taking  with  regard  to  the  legacy  the  Tribunal  will 
leave behind.
We  also  wish  to  emphasize  that  the  Tribunal’s 
lessons are relevant in terms of what can be expected 
from other international criminal tribunals and courts. 
Accordingly,  expectations  must  be  managed  from  the 
outset so as not to forget the victims and communities 
affected.  If  possible,  the  judgments  of  the  Tribunal 
should  be  integrated  into  the  jurisprudence  of  the 
national  courts  of  the  former  Yugoslavia,  so  that  the 
national courts and tribunals of each State are involved 
in the efforts to strengthen local civil-society initiatives 
with respect to accountability and reconciliation.
The International Criminal Tribunal for the Former 
Yugoslavia  has  demonstrated  that  it  is  necessary  and 
possible  to  prosecute  high-impact  cases,  including 
cases of sexual and gender-based violence. The Tribunal 
must ensure that the citizens of the region have at their 
disposal — and in all local languages — a permanent 
record of the crimes committed during the conflict in 
the  Balkans  so  that  such  atrocities  do  not  recur.  It  is 
also necessary for the national authorities in each State 
of the former Yugoslavia, as well as members of civil 
society and the United Nations, not to forget — and we 
should not forget — reparations and the memory of the 
victims, with a view to providing justice, improving the 
penal systems and preventing crimes against humanity 
in future.
Finally,  we  call  upon  all  interested  and  involved 
States  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Tribunal  and  its 
officials,  as  well  as  to  abide  by  and  comply  with  the 
orders it issues, so that it can fully complete its functions 
as befits such an important Tribunal.
Mr.  Trujillo  (United  States  of  America):  As  we 
look  to  the  near  horizon  in  December  and  see  the 
coming closure of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  the  United  States 
again  extends  its  sincere  appreciation  to  President 
Meron, President Agius and Prosecutor Brammertz for 
their ongoing work to achieve justice for victims of the 
vicious atrocities committed in the former Yugoslavia.
today 
participating  in  this  debate,  as  we  continue  to  face 
conflicts  where  serious  crimes  have  been  committed. 
We must continue to find ways to uphold accountability 
for perpetrators of atrocities and justice for the victims. 
As  we  look  to  the  closure  of  the  ICTY  in  December, 
we  remain  as  committed  as  ever  to  the  Tribunal,  the 
is  especially 
It 
important 
to  be  here 
17-32745
15/17
A/72/PV.32 
18/10/2017
independence of its work and the successful transfer of 
functions to the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals.
The United States wishes to underscore that while 
the  ICTY  is  successfully  concluding  its  mandate, 
there  remains  much  to  do  in  pursuit  of  justice  and 
reconciliation.  We  must  now  turn  our  focus  from 
fulfilling  national-level  obligations 
resolving 
outstanding  war-crimes  cases.  We  remain  willing  to 
support such efforts. We applaud the ICTY for adhering 
to  its  completion  schedule.  It  is  on  track  to  deliver 
judgments in its two remaining substantive cases by the 
end of November.
to 
With  respect  to  the  upcoming  appeal  of  the 
judgment in the case of Prosecutor v. Jadranko Prlić 
et al., which involved six former high-ranking officials 
from  Herceg-Bosna,  we  support  the  independence  of 
the  Tribunal  in  reaching  its  decision.  With  respect  to 
the  cases  against  Ratko  Mladić,  who  is  charged  with 
11  counts  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  and 
violations  of  the  laws  and  customs  of  war,  we  see  it 
as  a  fitting  bookend  to  the  work  of  the  Tribunal  and 
yet another example for the world to see that eventually 
those  alleged  to  be  responsible  for  atrocities  will 
ultimately  face  justice.  Both  of  these  cases,  like  all 
others, involve questions of individual criminality, and 
should not be seen as trials of any one country.
The United States also commends the work, under 
the  leadership  of  the  President  of  the  ICTY,  to  hold 
legacy and closing events that can help ensure a long-
lasting impact, particularly in ongoing efforts aimed at 
achieving justice and reconciliation.
The  United  States  remains  concerned  about  the 
divisive nature of statements made by some individuals 
in the region that have a negative impact on cooperation 
in  the  pursuit  of  justice  for  war  crimes  committed  in 
the former Yugoslavia. That is particularly true when 
individuals  deny  or  seek  to  revise  the  true  record  of 
crimes  established  by  the  ICTY.  We  should  strive  to 
depoliticize  the  historical  record,  which  can  help 
prevent a repetition of such widespread atrocities and 
create  the  space  for  technical  experts  to  meet,  share 
information  and  work  together  in  various  forums  to 
resolve remaining cases.
The  United  States  also  remains  concerned  about 
the Government of Serbia’s failure to execute the arrest 
warrants for the two surviving individuals charged with 
contempt of court in relation to witness intimidation in 
the case of Prosecutor v. Vojislav Šešelj. We continue to 
encourage Serbia to fulfil its obligations.
The International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals has also made notable progress since we last 
convened here on this item (see A/71/PV.44). From an 
administrative  perspective,  staff  has  moved  into  new 
premises in Arusha, Tanzania. Substantively, there has 
been continued focus on the expeditious completion of 
trials and appeals.
The  United  States  applauds  the  Mechanism’s 
efforts  to  assist  national  jurisdictions  by,  inter  alia, 
processing  requests  to  question  detained  persons  and 
protected  witnesses.  We  understand  that  during  the 
reporting  period  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  also 
answered  11  requests  from  Member  States  and  one 
international organization with regard to Rwanda, and 
239 requests for assistance from eight Member States 
and three international organizations with regard to the 
former Yugoslavia. In addition, it conducted capacity-
building  activities  with  national  authorities  from 
Africa, Europe and Latin America. We are impressed 
with the range of assistance being provided while the 
Mechanism  remains,  under  the  Security  Council’s 
direction, a small and efficient structure.
The Office of the Prosecutor is continuing its efforts 
to locate and arrest the eight remaining fugitives, three 
of  whom  will  be  tried  by  the  Mechanism  —  Félicien 
Kabuga, Protais Mpiranya and Augustin Bizimana; and 
five of whom will be transferred to Rwanda — Fulgence 
Kayishema,  Charles  Sikubwabo,  Aloys  Ndimbati, 
Phénéas  Munyarugarama  and  Charles  Ryandikayo. 
To  that  end,  we  appreciate  the  Prosecutor’s  review  of 
tracking  efforts  and  the  development  of  updated  and 
concrete  strategies  for  apprehending  the  remaining 
fugitives.  This  includes  the  development  of  two  task 
forces  —  one  focused  on  Africa  and  the  other  on 
Europe — thereby bringing together key national law-
enforcement  authorities,  as  well  as  INTERPOL.  We 
commend  the  Prosecutor  for  undertaking  the  much-
needed restructuring of the tracking team to ensure that 
it has the capacity to conduct the range of investigative 
activities needed to succeed in its mission.
The  United  States  remains  equally  committed  to 
those  efforts.  We  continue  to  offer  a  reward  of  up  to 
$5  million  per  fugitive  for  information  leading  to  the 
arrest or transfer of those eight men and stand ready to 
engage with the new task forces. We likewise call on 
16/17 
17-32745
18/10/2017 
A/72/PV.32
all States, especially those in the Great Lakes region, 
to cooperate with efforts to apprehend these fugitives.
Finally,  I  want  highlight  once  again  two  of  my 
earlier  points.  First,  while  the  ICTY  is  successfully 
concluding its mandate, reconciliation and the pursuit 
of  justice  remain  priorities.  We  are  now  focusing 
our  attention  on  national-level  obligations  to  resolve 
remaining  war-crimes  cases.  Secondly,  the  work  of 
both the Mechanism and the ICTY reminds us that, in 
the face of horrific atrocities, we can work together to 
hold perpetrators accountable and achieve a measure of 
justice for their victims.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the  Assembly  to  take  note  of  the  twenty-fourth  and 
final  annual  report  of  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  Serious 
Violations  of 
International  Humanitarian  Law 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
since 1991?
It was so decided.
The  President:  May  I  also  take  it  that  it  is  the 
wish of the Assembly to take note of the fifth annual 
report  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of 
Turkey, who wishes to speak in explanation of position.
Mr. Begeç (Turkey): I have asked to take the floor 
in order to register my country’s position with regard 
to the fifth annual report of the International Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals (A/72/261).
Certain  contents  of  the  report  refer  explicitly  or 
implicitly to my country and Turkish nationals, including 
in  its  paragraphs  16  and  26.  The  official  position  of 
Turkey with regard to the matter of diplomatic immunity 
has  been  shared  with  the  appropriate  counterparts  of 
the Office of Legal Affairs of the Secretariat, as well 
as with the Secretary-General, through a note verbale 
dated 11 November 2016 and a letter dated 6 February 
2017,  respectively.  These  communications  expressed, 
inter alia, our disagreement with the competent United 
Nations  authorities  on  the  scope  of  the  immunity 
enjoyed by the Turkish Judge of the Mechanism.
We have also communicated our views with regard 
to  certain  acts  of  the  Mechanism  and  the  abuse  of 
authority  thereof,  through  a  letter  to  the  President  of 
the  Security  Council  dated  10  March.  This  letter  has 
subsequently been distributed to the wider membership 
as document S/2017/210.
In  the  light  of  the  foregoing  and  in  accordance 
with  decision  55/488,  I  would  like  to  state  for  the 
record  Turkey’s  non-concurrence  with  and  resultant 
disapproval  of  the  aforementioned  sections  of  the 
report and to register the lack of consensus on them in 
the General Assembly.
Some  Member  States  have  also  expressed  views 
on this subject. Notwithstanding the literal content of 
those views, allow me to say that any attempt or intent 
to interfere with the independent judiciary of a Member 
State is neither permissible nor welcome, in particular 
in this Hall.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda items 75 and 129?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.55 p.m.
17-32745
17/17
