United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
37th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 20 November 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Yelchenko 
(Ukraine), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 124 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
for  steering  our 
Ms. Bavdaž Kuret (Slovenia): I want to begin by 
thanking the Ambassadors of the United Arab Emirates 
and  Georgia 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  during  the  seventy-second  session.  We 
greatly  appreciate  all  the  documents  produced  so  far, 
including  the  “Revised  elements  of  commonality  and 
issues  for  further  consideration”,  prepared  during 
the  previous  intergovernmental  negotiations  session. 
The  document  has  come  a  long  way  and  has  enabled 
us to clarify our positions further. I also congratulate 
Ambassador Braun on his appointment.
in 
the 
Slovenia  remains  committed  to  continuing  the 
discussions 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
process,  but  I  have  to  repeat  our  opinion,  however, 
that the time has come to move forward. Reform of the 
Security Council received the highest political support 
in 2005, meaning that we are way past an early reform 
as it was envisaged then.
At  the  beginning  of  this  month,  the  Security 
Council  held  an  open  debate  on  the  importance  of 
multilateralism and the role of the United Nations (see 
S/PV.8395).  Slovenia  advocated  for  an  effective  and 
efficient  Security  Council  that  can  detect  concerns 
and  threats  early  on  and  whose  members  assume 
responsibility for addressing them. Today I would like 
to join others in making some general remarks on the 
substance and process.
The 
previous 
session’s 
intergovernmental 
negotiations showed that there are a lot of commonalities 
on which we can build. We appreciate the inclusion in 
the  revised  elements  of  commonalities  regarding  the 
relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly, the size and the enlargement of the 
Council, and the working methods of the Council. That 
gives  us  a  better  picture  in  one  document  of  all  five 
categories  of  issues.  They  are  interlinked,  and  in  our 
view, none can be discussed in isolation from the others.
We  recognize  that  some  improvements  relating 
to  the  working  methods  have  already  been  achieved, 
and we call on every member of the Security Council 
to  do  its  utmost  to  improve  them  further  for  the 
benefit  of  all  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Organization itself.
We know the goal we have set for ourselves, which 
is to make the Security Council broadly representative 
and  more  efficient,  and  ensure  that  its  work  is  more 
transparent. So the process must bring us there. Slovenia 
believes that the options and proposals for each of the 
questions  have  been  debated  and  examined  in  depth. 
We spend a couple of meetings every year on them. The 
time has come to start the real negotiations.
Since the Organization was established, the world 
has  changed  significantly,  and  almost  none  of  those 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-39086 (E)
*1839086*

A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
changes  have  been  reflected  in  the  Security  Council. 
The Council, which is entrusted with the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  has  a  particular 
obligation to the international community. That is one 
of the reasons why it should represent the entire world, 
which it does not do today. Membership in the Security 
Council is a serious responsibility, and Member States 
who  take  that  role  upon  themselves  must  be  ready  to 
carry the burden.
On the more concrete issues, Slovenia, with a view 
to  properly  reflecting  today’s  reality,  is  in  favour  of 
expanding the membership of the Council in both the 
permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories.  When 
it comes to the category of elected, or non-permanent, 
members, we believe enlarging it would enable a higher 
rate of rotation and greater democratic representation. 
In that regard, allocating an additional non-permanent 
seat to the Group of Eastern European States is a high 
priority for Slovenia. Over the past quarter of a century, 
the Eastern European Group membership has doubled 
but the membership in the Council remains unchanged 
at one permanent and one non-permanent seat. We also 
support additional seats for African States.
There is a general understanding that enlarging the 
Security Council would improve the representation of 
States that are under- or unrepresented, ensure fair and 
democratic  representation,  and  balance  the  principles 
of  responsibility,  transparency  and  efficiency.  We  are 
not sure of the formula yet, but we are very supportive 
of solutions that would bring more small countries into 
the  Council.  Slovenia  is  in  favour  of  allocating  seats 
based on regional groups.
With  regard  to  the  reformed  Council,  Slovenia  is 
of  the  view  that  its  siz  must  not  be  an  obstacle  to  its 
efficiency. In any case, the Council’s methods of work 
will  have  to  be  changed  or  adapted  if  we  want  it  to 
be  able  to  deal  with  the  fast-changing,  complex  and 
multiplying  factors  that  pose  a  threat  to  international 
peace and security.
As to the question of the veto, as a member of the 
Accountability, Coherence and Transparency group and 
a supporter of the French-Mexican initiative, Slovenia 
advocates  restricting  the  use  of  the  veto  in  cases  of 
atrocity  crimes,  as  well  as  applying  maximum  self-
restraint in the use of the veto in other cases.
Regarding  the  relations  between  the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  Slovenia  can 
fully  subscribe  to  the  commonalities  identified  in 
the  revised  document.  Based  on  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter, the relationship should be mutually reinforcing 
and  complementary.  Just  last  week,  we  discussed  the 
implementation of the revitalization of the work of the 
General Assembly (see A/73/PV.35). We believe that the 
relevant resolutions should also be taken into account.
Finally, I have just briefly highlighted some of the 
issues.  We  will  be  able  to  continue  our  deliberations 
during  the  upcoming  intergovernmental  negotiations. 
However, I want to take this opportunity to once again 
express  our  strong  support  for  moving  the  process 
forward.  We  believe  that  the  best  way  to  do  that  and 
to pick up where we left off at the end of the previous 
session would be to begin concrete negotiations based 
on concrete text proposals.
Ms.  Jazairy  (Algeria):  My  delegation  aligns 
itself  with  the  statements  delivered  by  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Sierra  Leone,  on  behalf  of  the 
African  Union  Committee  of  Ten  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  on  the  United  Nations  Security  Council 
Reforms, and Kuwait, on behalf of the Group of Arab 
States (see A/73/PV.36).
I thank the President of the General Assembly for 
her  commitment  to  continuing  the  Assembly’s  active 
engagement  in  the  process  of  reforming  the  Security 
Council. My delegation looks forward to working with 
the newly appointed co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassadors  Nusseibeh  of  the  United 
Arab Emirates and Braun of Luxembourg.
At the outset, I want to reiterate that we continue 
to  believe  firmly  in  the  need  for  a  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  system  that  upholds 
the  principles,  objectives  and  ideals  of  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations with the aim of achieving a fairer 
world,  based  on  universalism,  equity  and  regional 
balance. To that end, we remain true to decision 62/557 
and other relevant General Assembly decisions aimed 
at  achieving  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  encompassing  the  five  main  clusters,  while 
taking into account their interconnectedness, as agreed 
by  the  Assembly.  We  therefore  reject  any  kind  of 
piecemeal, selective approach, which would contradict 
and violate the spirit of a comprehensive reform.
We  take  note  of  the  efforts  deployed  to  identify 
commonalities around which Member States can unite 
for  consensus-building  in  the  paper  entitled  “Revised 
elements  of  commonality  and 
issues  for  further 
consideration”,  circulated  on  14  June.  However,  that 
2/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
document  did  not  accurately  reflect  the  Common 
African  Position.  In  that  regard  —  and  this  is  our 
firm  position  —  Africa  must  be  represented  in  both 
categories  of  the  Security  Council,  and  if  it  is  not 
abolished, the right of veto must be extended to all new 
permanent members.
The  Common  African  Position,  as  outlined  in 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration, 
emphasizes  that  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system 
should be all-inclusive and encompass all components of 
the United Nations system, including the growing need 
to  improve  the  relationship  between  its  two  principal 
organs — the Security Council, primarily responsible 
for the maintenance of international peace and security, 
and  the  General  Assembly,  the  main  deliberative 
and  representative  body  of 
the  United  Nations. 
The  adoption  on  29  June  of  the  consensus  rollover 
decision 72/557, which mainly called for an immediate 
continuation  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  in 
the  informal  plenary  during  the  seventy-third  session 
of the Assembly, was another significant manifestation 
of the acceptance by all States Members of the United 
Nations  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  as  the 
appropriate forum for continuing to discuss the reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  That  decision  should  lead 
to  a  resumption  of  the  negotiations  process  as  soon 
as possible.
Despite representing the largest number of Member 
States and accounting for three quarters of the Security 
Council’s  agenda  items,  our  continent  continues  to 
be  undermined  in  that  it  has  no  representation  in  the 
permanent member category, the core decision-making 
unit  of  the  Council.  Africa  therefore  demands  its 
rightful place in the maintenance of peace and security, 
as  the  continent  that  has  the  clear  qualifications  for 
playing a more meaningful role in that area.
to  keep 
We  have  a  unique  opportunity 
the 
international  system  on  track  towards  a  dynamic  and 
effective  democratic  multilateralism  that  can  ensure 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  the  centre  of  global 
governance. We cannot afford to remain indifferent to the 
realities of our rapidly changing global circumstances. 
Africa will continue to advocate for meaningful reform 
that will make the Security Council both more relevant 
and  more  responsive  to  today’s  current  and  emerging 
global challenges. Africa will also continue to promote 
the core principles of the Charter.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  insists  that  we 
urgently need to build on the progress made so far and 
accelerate its pace so that we can fulfil the vision of our 
leaders at the 2005 World Summit, which was to make 
the  Security  Council  more  broadly  representative, 
democratic,  effective,  accessible  and  legitimate.  As  a 
member  of  the  Committee  of  Ten  Heads  of  State  and 
Government, my delegation stands ready to work with 
the President of the General Assembly and the general 
membership within the intergovernmental negotiations 
for  a  comprehensive  reform,  as  called  for  in  decision 
62/557.
Mr. Sinirlioğlu (Turkey): I thank the President of 
the General Assembly for convening this debate and for 
her commitment to the Security Council reform process.
We align ourselves with the statement delivered by 
the Permanent Representative of Italy on behalf of the 
Uniting for Consensus group (see A/73/PV.36). I would 
also  like  to  make  the  following  additional  remarks  in 
my national capacity.
The  need  for  Security  Council  reform  is  real  and 
urgent. We must make sure that the reformed Council 
reflects the realities of our time. To that end, we must 
strive for reform that ensures that the Security Council 
will  continue  to  be  a  mirror  of  the  ever-changing 
contemporary world. The outcome of the reform process 
should  therefore  not  create  a  static  body.  Reform 
requires  a  comprehensive  and  inclusive  approach, 
which  demands  that  we  emphasize  the  common 
good  over  individual  national  interests.  Needless  to 
say,  the  resulting  reform  should  be  adopted  with  the 
acceptance of all Member States. That is the only way 
that the Security Council can be more representative, 
democratic, accountable and effective.
An 
increasing 
insistence  on 
the  number  of 
permanent members of the Council is the main reason 
for the lack of progress in the reform process. Yet time 
and again the discussion on Security Council reform is 
consumed  by  efforts  to  allocate  additional  permanent 
seats  with  the  right  of  veto.  Make  no  mistake  about 
it,  permanent  membership  with  the  right  of  veto  is 
the  reason  we  need  to  reform  the  Council  in  the  first 
place.  It  is  the  very  reason  why  the  Security  Council 
has failed to carry out its mandate and provide timely 
and  adequate  responses  to  crises  on  many  occasions. 
The Council now serves only the national interests of 
those  who  enjoy  that  privilege.  The  veto  makes  the 
Security  Council  dysfunctional,  unaccountable  and 
18-39086
3/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
undemocratic, which erodes trust in the United Nations 
and in multilateralism in general.
The  reform  process  should  look  for  ways  to 
address the current problems of the Security Council, 
not  exacerbate  them.  The  Council  will  be  more 
representative and responsive if we increase the number 
of  elected  seats  and  the  possibility  that  all  Member 
States  can  serve  on  it.  The  Security  Council  will  be 
more  accountable  if  the  performance  of  its  members 
is  subject  to  periodic  elections.  An  improved  ratio 
between  the  non-permanent  and  permanent  members 
will improve the decision-making process and make the 
Council more effective.
The  Security  Council  has  to  fulfil  its  mission  as 
the  primary  United  Nations  organ  responsible  for 
maintaining international peace and security. It is time 
to work together constructively and achieve the widest 
possible  agreement.  We  call  on  all  Member  States  to 
demonstrate the political will and flexibility needed to 
facilitate the reform process.
Mr.  Boguslavskiy  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): I thank the President of the General Assembly 
for convening today’s meeting. The issue of reform of 
the Security Council is one of the most important and 
complex items on the agenda of our global Organization, 
owing to the fact that under the Charter of the United 
Nations, the Council has the primary responsibility for 
maintaining international peace and security.
We  congratulate  the  Permanent  Representatives 
of Luxembourg and the United Arab Emirates on their 
appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. We hope that their activities will be based 
on the principles of impartiality and full consideration 
of the views of all the States participating in the process. 
We thank the Permanent Representatives of Georgia and 
the United Arab Emirates for their work as co-Chairs 
during the previous session of the General Assembly.
Today’s  meeting  begins  the  discussion  of  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  for  the  seventy-third  session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  This  is  not  the  first  year 
we  are  having  that  discussion.  A  total  of  14  rounds 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations  have  taken  place. 
Member States have been able to make some progress 
in advancing reform, but there are no proposals so far 
for  a  universal  solution  that  would  satisfy  a  majority. 
The approaches taken by the major players in the area 
of reform still diverge significantly and are sometimes 
even  diametrically  opposed.  In  the  circumstances, 
we  see  no  alternative  to  continuing  patient,  step-by-
step  work  aimed  at  bringing  negotiating  positions 
closer  together  during  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Our  position  is  well  known.  As  a  permanent 
member of the Security Council, Russia has noted the 
importance of making it more representative, especially 
for developing States in Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
However, the efforts to achieve that should not affect the 
Council’s ability to respond effectively and efficiently 
to emerging challenges. In that regard, we are in favour 
of preserving the compact nature of Security Council 
membership. Its optimal membership should not exceed 
the  low  twenties.  In  our  view,  any  ideas  that  could 
infringe on the prerogatives of the current permanent 
members of the Council, including the right of veto, is 
unacceptable. We have to remember that the power of 
veto  is  an  important  factor  driving  Council  members 
to  make  balanced  decisions.  The  use  or  threat  of  the 
use of the veto has often saved the United Nations from 
becoming involved in questionable enterprises.
The  process  of  reforming  the  Security  Council 
should  be  owned  by  all  Member  States,  without 
exception,  and  the  resulting  format  should  enjoy  the 
broadest  possible  support  among  the  membership. 
If  consensus  cannot  be  reached  on  that  issue,  it  is 
still  politically  essential  to  ensure  the  support  of  a 
significantly larger number of Member States than the 
legally  required  two-thirds  majority  of  the  General 
Assembly. We believe that the issue of Security Council 
reform cannot be resolved by mere arithmetic, putting 
one or another proposal to the vote so as to obtain the 
minimum number of votes necessary. Results achieved 
that  way  would  hardly  add  to  the  Security  Council’s 
credibility  and  effectiveness  and  would  definitely  not 
strengthen  our  world  Organization.  On  the  contrary. 
However,  we  are  willing  to  consider  any  reasonable 
option  for  expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council,  including  a  so-called  interim  solution  based 
on compromise, if it is based on the broadest consensus 
possible within the United Nations.
We  cannot  make  progress  on  Security  Council 
reform  by  imposing  on  Member  States  some  type  of 
coordinating  texts,  negotiation  documents  or  other 
initiatives that have not been agreed to by all participants 
in  the  process.  Previous  General  Assembly  sessions 
have demonstrated the futility and danger of attempts to 
force through decisions on the issue of reform without 
considering the need for the broad support of Member 
4/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
States. Progress on Security Council reform will depend 
strictly on the political will of Member States and their 
willingness to reach a reasonable compromise. We urge 
everyone to adhere to that fundamental principle.
focus 
negotiations  will 
We  hope  that  the  efforts  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental 
on 
providing  maximum  support  for 
the  negotiations 
while understanding that the ownership of the process 
belongs  to  Member  States.  This  kind  of  painstaking 
work  should  be  conducted  calmly,  transparently  and 
inclusively, without arbitrary timelines. It is important 
for  all  of  us  to  realize  that  there  is  no  place  here  for 
artificial  deadlines  or  attempts  to  solve  a  complex 
problem with a stroke of the pen. And in the turbulent 
international relations prevailing today, neither do we 
want our intergovernmental negotiations to create new 
divisions among States.
Mr. Mlynár (Slovakia): I thank the President of the 
General Assembly for convening this plenary debate on 
the important issue of reform of the Security Council and 
for inviting us to speak. We thank her for her important 
leadership  on  this  subject,  as  well  as  on  many  other 
substantive  issues  of  importance  to  Member  States.  I 
also  want  to  add  my  congratulations  to  Ambassadors 
Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  and  Braun,  Permanent  Representative 
of Luxembourg, on their appointment as co-Chairs of 
the intergovernmental negotiations during the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  am  confident 
that under their guidance we will be able to move this 
challenging  task  forward  efficiently.  We  would  also 
like to express our sincere appreciation to Ambassadors 
Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Imnadze 
of  Georgia  for  their  dedicated  service  and  hard  work 
during the previous session of the General Assembly.
Earlier  this  month,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  circulated  her  synopsis  of  the  general 
debate  of  the  seventy-third  session.  We  can  see  that 
throughout  the  debate,  world  leaders  were  in  almost 
total unanimity in highlighting the critical importance 
of  multilateralism  and  international  cooperation  for 
addressing  global  challenges  and  promoting  human 
rights, sustainable development, security and stability. 
An  exceptionally  large  number  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government attended the general debate this year and 
spoke about the importance of multilateral cooperation 
as  the  only  way  to  address  the  problems  facing 
humankind,  and  the  majority  noted  the  irreplaceable 
role of the United Nations as the only world forum that 
can address the multitude of global concerns.
This  month,  at  the  initiative  of  the  Chinese 
presidency, the Security Council met in an open debate 
to reflect on ways to strengthen multilateralism and the 
role of the United Nations (see S/PV.8395). The debate 
demonstrated the crucial importance that the Security 
Council  attaches  to  multilateralism  and  collective 
problem-solving  and  highlighted  the  key  role  that  the 
United Nations has played since its establishment.
Such  commitments  to  multilateralism  are  needed 
more than ever, as international peace and security are 
being  confronted  with  new  and  complex  challenges. 
The  Security  Council  continues  to  play  a  central 
role  in  global  security  governance  and  the  rules-
based  international  order.  By  reforming  the  Council 
so  as  to  make  it  more  representative  of  the  broader 
membership,  more  efficient  and  inclusive,  and  better 
suited to address the security challenges that face the 
international  community  today,  we  will  be  making  a 
greater  investment  in  the  multilateral  system,  with  a 
stronger United Nations at its core. We must therefore 
accelerate  our  efforts  to  reform  the  Security  Council. 
In  2019,  it  will  have  been  40  years  since  substantive 
reform  was  put  on  the  agenda  of  General  Assembly 
for  the  first  time.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  add 
that my delegation joins other countries in calling for 
substantive give-and-take or text-based negotiations.
The position of my delegation on a possible revision 
of the membership of the Security Council is consistent 
and well documented. Slovakia supports the expansion 
of the categories of both permanent and non-permanent 
membership  and  calls  for  increasing  their  total  to  no 
more than 25 members, while respecting geographical 
balance.  As  a  matter  of  principle,  the  new  members 
of  the  Council  should  have  the  same  responsibilities 
and  obligations  as  the  current  members.  I  want  to 
underscore  that  the  reformed  Council  should  include 
one  additional  non-permanent  seat  for  the  Group  of 
Eastern European States.
the 
intensified  efforts  during 
previous sessions of the General Assembly to identify 
ways  to  further  narrow  differences  in  a  transparent 
manner  and  through  a  membership-driven  process. 
Obviously,  the  five  key  reform  issues  of  decision 
62/557  remain  the  guiding  principles  for  our  work  in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  they  should 
be addressed and resolved as a package. Nevertheless, 
We  welcome 
18-39086
5/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
we  believe  that  our  negotiations  should  also  devote 
greater attention to ensuring that Africa is more widely 
represented  on  the  Security  Council,  including  in  the 
permanent member category.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  reaffirm  my  delegation’s 
strong  commitment  to  finding  a  good,  negotiated 
outcome in the intergovernmental negotiations. We look 
forward to engaging in open, transparent, inclusive and 
result-oriented negotiations towards that end.
Mr. Fesko (Ukraine): We appreciate the convening 
of today’s debate and would like to express our support 
for the efforts of the President of the General Assembly 
aimed  at  re-energizing  the  process  of  reforming  the 
Security Council.
Few delegations in this Hall disagree with the basic 
premise that the Security Council, in its current form, 
is  in  dire  need  of  serious  reform.  At  the  same  time, 
as we are all well aware, that is the point at which the 
general consensus ends. Some Member States advocate 
a  radical  overhaul  of  the  Security  Council,  while 
others call for a more moderate approach. Some insist 
that reform should have begun long ago, while others 
advocate  a  very  measured  approach  to  the  issue  of 
timing. Some stand ready to engage in hammering out 
the  existing  differences  in  the  process  of  actual  text-
based negotiations, while others are quick to point out 
that the United Nations family has not yet achieved a 
consensus even on procedural matters, let alone on the 
substantive issues.
Where  does  that  leave  us?  If  we  are  frank,  we 
have  to  admit  that  the  reform  process  has  not  made 
much  progress  since  the  early  days  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation on and Increase in the Membership of 
the Security Council and Other Matters related to the 
Security Council, which was established by resolution 
48/26, back in the already distant year of 1993.
Of  course,  there  have  been  changes,  and  quite 
significant  ones,  in  the  work  of  the  Council  in 
recent  decades.  Its  working  methods  have  improved 
dramatically, 
its  activities  have  become  more 
transparent and accessible to the wider United Nations 
membership,  and  the  workload  itself  has  increased 
greatly.  However,  the  inherent  deficiencies  in  the 
Council’s  design,  composition  and  decision-making 
processes remain largely unaddressed.
In  Ukraine’s  view,  making  the  Security  Council 
more representative and bringing its working methods 
in  line  with  the  demands  of  modern  times  are  long 
overdue.  It  is  probably  obvious  to  everyone  that 
the  Council  in  its  current  form  is  not  well  suited  to 
addressing  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century 
effectively.  It  is  extremely  regrettable  that  while  the 
world outside of these walls is calling loudly and clearly 
for a more efficient Council, the States Members of the 
United  Nations  find  themselves  stuck  in  a  seemingly 
perpetual circle of repeating their well-known positions 
on Council reform year after year, unable to make any 
tangible progress.
It would not be an exaggeration to say that, while 
the  United  Nations  family  procrastinates  on  reform 
of  the  Council,  people  are  dying  outside  these  walls 
because the current Council is simply powerless to help 
them. Our experience of serving on the Council in 2016 
and 2017 only strengthened our conviction that without 
genuine reform, it will be doomed to lose its relevance 
and standing in the wider international context. Having 
said that, I would like to applaud the efforts of all the 
elected  members  of  the  Council,  past  and  present,  to 
improve  its  working  methods.  To  be  fair,  permanent 
members have also quite often done their best to help 
elevate the Council above its limitations.
We are grateful to the previous session’s co-Chairs 
of the intergovernmental negotiations on reform of the 
Security  Council,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Georgia and the United Arab Emirates, for their sincere 
efforts  and  hard  work  in  trying  to  build  bridges  and 
narrow the gaps between the positions of Member States. 
We wish every success to the new team of co-Chairs, 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates and Luxembourg, in steering the negotiations 
in the coming months. They can count on our support 
in their difficult and challenging assignment of leading 
the intergovernmental negotiations.
As  we  are  about  to  embark  on  a  new  round  of 
consultations within the format of the intergovernmental 
negotiations, I would like to reiterate Ukraine’s position 
that we are open to discussing all progressive options 
and  new  approaches  to  Security  Council  reform,  in 
particular those aimed at streamlining the negotiations 
process  and  making  it  more  pragmatic  and  result-
oriented.
For our part,  we consider two issues to be crucial 
the overall reform process. First, on the representation 
6/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
of  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States  on  the 
Council, it is a matter of principle for us that at least 
one  additional  seat  be  given  to  the  Eastern  European 
Group  in  the  elected-member  category.  Secondly,  I 
must  stress  that  in  our  view,  the  need  for  the  United 
Nations membership to reconsider the role of the veto 
in the work of the Security Council is a major priority.
We  have  all  seen  too  many  instances  in  which 
permanent members of the Security Council have used 
the right of veto in direct contravention of their duty to 
maintain international peace and security. We therefore 
advocate  phasing  it  out,  and  we  strongly  support  all 
initiatives aimed at limiting the veto’s use. At the very 
least,  it  should  be  restricted  not  only  in  cases  where 
the  Security  Council  is  considering  a  decision  on 
preventing  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or  war 
crimes  —  as  per  the  French-Mexican  initiative  and 
the  code  of  conduct  of  the  Accountability,  Coherence 
and Transparency group — but also when a permanent 
member  itself  is  involved  in  a  conflict  or  situation 
being  considered  by  the  Security  Council  and  cannot 
therefore exercise its voting rights impartially owing to 
a conflict of interest. When a permanent member of the 
Security Council is a party to a conflict on which the 
Security Council may be about to adopt a decision, that 
member’s exercise of the right of veto directly hinders 
the Council from carrying out its primary responsibility 
to maintain international peace and security.
We  believe  that  the  issue  of  limiting  the  ability 
of  a  party  to  a  conflict  to  abuse  the  right  of  veto  in 
relevant  situations  has  to  be  considered  during  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
implemented 
as  an  integral  part  of  Security  Council  reform.  In 
conclusion,  I  hope  that  this  year  we  will  be  able  to 
make progress towards our shared goal of reforming the 
Security Council, and my delegation is ready to engage 
constructively with all Member States to do so.
Mr.  Elnour  (Sudan)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  We 
would first like to thank the President of the General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  meeting  on  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related  to  the  Security  Council.  We  also  thank  the 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second 
session, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, as well as the Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  the 
Permanent Representative of the Republic of Georgia, 
for their efforts during the previous session with regard 
intergovernmental  negotiations  concerning 
to 
the 
this  important  agenda  item.  We  affirm  our  readiness 
to  cooperate  with  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Luxembourg,  the  two 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations at the 
current session.
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statements  delivered 
previously  by  the  representatives  of  Sierra  Leone,  on 
behalf of the Group of African States, and Kuwait, on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  Arab  States  (see  A/73/PV.36). 
We would also like to make the following points in our 
national capacity.
It goes without saying that reform of the Security 
Council  constitutes  an  essential  pillar  of  the  reform 
process  of  the  United  Nations  that  is  currently  under 
way.  That  is  unmistakable,  since  the  credibility  and 
image of the United Nations in our contemporary world 
will  basically  depend  on  the  success  of  our  efforts  to 
reform the Security Council, with the goal of making it 
more representative and transparent in order to address 
our growing challenges and the missions entrusted to it 
by the Charter of the United Nations. In that connection, 
my delegation is concerned about the very slow pace of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform. Twenty-five years have passed since they began, 
and despite minor progress, they have still not achieved 
their desired goal. The progress that has been made is 
not commensurate with the effort that has been put in or 
with the Council’s urgent need for reform.
improving 
My delegation believes that reform of the Security 
Council  should  be  a  comprehensive  process  that 
covers  the  five  agreed  points,  which  are  increasing 
the  representation  of  permanent  and  non-permanent 
Council  members,  ensuring  equitable  geographical 
representation,  modernizing  the  Council’s  working 
methods, 
the  decision-making  process, 
including the right of veto, and updating the Council’s 
agenda. In that connection, we want to see the Council’s 
agenda meet the needs and interests of both developing 
and  developed  countries.  The  Council  would  then 
become more representative, effective and accountable.
the 
historical  injustice  to  which  African  countries  have 
been  subjected  by  increasing  their  permanent  and 
non-permanent  representation  on 
in 
accordance  with  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration.  We  also  call  for  equitable  representation 
on the Council of the Arab States in both the permanent 
My  delegation  also  calls  for  addressing 
the  Council, 
18-39086
7/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
and  non-permanent  categories,  as  expressed  in  the 
statement by the representative of Kuwait.
With  regard  to  reform  of  the  Council’s  working 
methods,  my  delegation  calls  for  adopting  permanent 
rules  of  procedure,  which  have  been  provisional  for 
more  than  70  years,  for  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
public meetings and for greater participation by States 
whose situations are on the Council’s agenda.
With  regard 
to 
the  relationship  between 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  we  call 
on  all  United  Nations  organs  to  fulfil  their  mandates 
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, 
while  not  infringing  on  the  competencies  of  others. 
We  are  very  concerned  about  the  Council’s  increased 
involvement  in  issues  that  under  the  Charter  fall 
under the purview of the General Assembly, and about 
certain States’ exploitation of the Security Council in 
implementing their own agendas. It is important for the 
Council to comply with the principles of neutrality and 
non-selectivity and avoid double standards in its work.
My delegation also emphasizes the importance of 
avoiding invoking Chapter VII of the Charter to address 
issues  that  do  not  constitute  a  threat  to  international 
peace and security and of promoting the use of Chapters 
VI and VIII, especially in the light of the growing role 
played by regional organizations in dealing with issues 
that are relevant to their regions. Foremost among these 
is  the  African  Union,  which  in  April  2017  signed  the 
Joint  United  Nations-African  Union  Framework  for 
an  Enhanced  Partnership  in  Peace  and  Security.  That 
can  be  used  to  strengthen  peace  and  stability  on  the 
African continent.
My  delegation  is  deeply  concerned  about  the 
Council’s increasing use of sanctions. In that regard, we 
call for abiding by the principles of the Charter and for 
refraining from using sanctions until all other ways of 
peacefully settling disputes have been exhausted. The 
potentially far-reaching consequences of such sanctions 
should  be  thoroughly  studied  before  imposing  them, 
given that they are only a means to an end, not an end 
in themselves. Where sanctions have been imposed, we 
call for them to be periodically and flexibly reviewed in 
the light of developments on the ground.
In  conclusion,  we  affirm  our  readiness  to  work 
with  the  President  and  the  two  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  at  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Vaultier Mathias (Portugal): At the outset, let 
me start by thanking the President for her engagement 
in promoting a constructive follow-up debate on reform 
of the Security Council.
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
Arab  Emirates  for  their  role  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  during  the  previous 
session  and  welcome  the  appointment  of  this  year’s 
co-Chairs, the Permanent Representatives of the United 
Arab Emirates and Luxembourg, to whom I convey my 
best wishes and support for the challenging work ahead.
Portugal believes that this process must be inclusive, 
transparent  and  comprehensive,  generating  solutions 
that can garner a broad consensus among Member States 
that goes well beyond the required two-thirds majority 
of the General Assembly. In that regard, we believe that 
consideration should be given to extending the number 
of both permanent and non-permanent members of the 
Security  Council.  However,  that  reinforcement  of  the 
inclusiveness  of  the  Council  should  not  compromise 
its  efficiency,  and  the  right  of  veto  should  therefore 
not be extended to potential new permanent members. 
In  the  same  spirit  of  preserving  the  effectiveness  of 
the  decision-making  process,  we  must  refrain  from 
creating  additional  categories  other  than  the  existing 
two of permanent and non-permanent members.
The process of reforming the Security Council must 
also  include  continued  improvement  of  its  working 
methods.  Portugal  has  consistently  defended  that 
principle, especially in its term as an elected member 
of  the  Security  Council,  when  we  had  the  honour  to 
chair the Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Matters,  as  well  as  in  the  framework  of 
its participation in the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency group.
The Security Council has enormous responsibilities 
in preserving peace and security in the world. It must live 
up to the high expectations that we all have of its work 
and duly reflect the circumstances of today’s world. In 
that regard, I would like to quote my President, who, in 
his statement at this year’s general debate, declared that
“if we fail to reform the Security Council through 
a broad-based consensus, we ignore the geopolitics 
of the twenty-first century” (A/73/PV.9, p.26).
At  the  very  least,  a  more  representative  Security 
Council requires the permanent presence of the African 
8/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
continent,  Brazil  and  India.  Proper  implementation 
of  the  principle  of  geographic  balance  must  also 
translate  into  enhanced  opportunities  for  small  and 
medium-sized  countries.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the 
intergovernmental negotiations to come will enable us 
to make progress and broaden the scope of the elements 
of consensus that we have already agreed on. Portugal 
is  ready  to  continue  supporting  that  process  and  to 
encourage the President’s leadership in that framework.
Mr.  Djani  (Indonesia):  First  of  all,  let  me  thank 
the  President  for  convening  this  important  meeting. 
We welcome and congratulate the new co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform,  Ambassadors  Lana  Nusseibeh  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Christian  Braun  of  Luxembourg. 
Indonesia  assures  them  of  our  full  cooperation  and 
engagement  in  what  it  hopes  will  be  a  productive 
session.  We  also  thank  the  previous  co-Chairs,  from 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Georgia,  for  their 
important leadership and work, not least through their 
revised elements of commonality and issues for further 
consideration,  which  have  enabled  us  to  have  a  more 
focused discussion.
Given the increase in conflicts in recent years, with 
some old ones remaining unresolved or becoming more 
intractable,  there  are  legitimate  questions  as  to  the 
Security  Council’s  ability  to  fulfil  its  responsibilities 
mandated  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  On 
numerous occasions, the Council has failed to uphold 
international  humanitarian  law,  human  rights  law 
or  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  with 
devastating  consequences  for  far  too  many  innocent 
people.  Indonesia  once  again  calls  for  comprehensive 
Security  Council  reform  that  can  make  the  Council 
more  effective,  accountable  and  democratic,  as  well 
as equitably representative of the regions and realities 
of  today’s  world.  That  issue  has  been  lingering  for 
far  too  long,  while  the  world  has  changed  drastically 
and  dramatically.  Only  by  upholding  established 
universal norms, including full respect for the Charter, 
can  peace  and  security  be  best  ensured  for  everyone, 
large or small. At this juncture, I would like to share 
several ideas on behalf of the Indonesian delegation in 
relation to the issue of Security Council reform.
First,  while  Indonesia  supports  the  abolition  of 
the  right  of  veto,  considering  the  present  entrenched 
realities,  we  also  welcome  steps  that  can  regulate  the 
use  of  the  veto.  We  support  a  workable  mechanism 
that will ensure that the veto is not used to subvert the 
cause  of  humanity  and  justice.  One  obvious  hurdle  is 
the self-selected right of veto, which has rendered the 
Council  powerless  in  the  face  of  mass  atrocities  on 
many occasions. It also runs counter to the wishes of 
the  majority,  thereby  negating  democracy.  Indonesia 
therefore supports initiatives aimed at ending from the 
use of the veto in situations of mass crimes, as well as 
a code of conduct for the Council regarding genocide, 
crimes against humanity and war crimes.
the 
I  want 
Secondly, 
to  address 
issue  of 
membership  and  regional  representation.  Indonesia 
believes firmly that we cannot meet the many complex 
and multidimensional global challenges we face unless 
our  various  regional  perspectives  are  meaningfully 
reflected in the Council’s decision-making. We support 
at  least  four  additional  non-permanent  seats  each  for 
Asia and Africa, along with additional seats for Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  With  the  experience 
of  the  various  regions  in  peacemaking,  sustainable 
development  and  stability,  there  are  valuable  insights 
and networks of influence that can greatly benefit the 
Council and, by extension, world peace.
affirms 
Indonesia 
its  belief 
that  Council 
membership  should  be  governed  by  considerations  of 
democracy  and  with  an  intense  focus  on  maintaining 
peace  and  security  effectively,  justly  and  efficiently. 
We  also  envision  that  there  will  be  no  segregation  in 
the Council’s membership categories in the long term. 
In the meantime, we urge for a more inclusive role and 
responsibility of the elected 10 members of the Council, 
noting  that  they  are  elected  democratically  from  the 
entire membership of the Organization.
regard 
Thirdly,  with 
to  working  methods, 
Indonesia  emphasizes  that  better  communication  and 
coordination  are  required  among  all  of  the  related 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  including  between  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council, as well as 
the entities of the Secretariat. We believe that more can 
be done to improve the Council’s working methods, as 
mentioned in document S/2017/507, including codifying 
and finalizing the six-decades-old provisional rules of 
procedure of the Security Council.
We also believe there is room for improvement in 
the area of peacekeeping, which can be considered the 
core  business  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  important 
to  establish  intensive  dialogues  between  the  Council 
and  host  countries  with  a  view  to  improving  the 
environments  in  which  peacekeepers  are  deployed. 
18-39086
9/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
While  such  dialogues  might  seem  a  small  thing,  they 
will undoubtedly be one of the most important elements 
determining a mission’s success. Indonesia would also 
like to see better consultations between the Council and 
the troop- and police-contributing countries, which put 
their people in harm’s way on the ground to fulfil United 
Nations  mandates.  That  is  what  we  call  a  concrete 
contribution,  and  I  believe  that  both  small  and  large 
countries at the United Nations deserve a place on the 
Security Council based on their concrete contributions.
In  closing,  I  want  to  underline  Indonesia’s  deep 
commitment  to  continuing  to  play  an  active  role 
aimed  at  helping  to  advance  practical  approaches  to 
meaningful Council reform that enjoys the support of 
all. At the end of the day, the Security Council belongs 
to us all.
Mr.  Beleffi  (San  Marino):  I  would  first  like  to 
thank the President for convening this annual debate on 
the reform of the Security Council and to commend her 
commitment to the revitalization of the United Nations, 
including the Security Council, for which the process 
of  reform  must  be  open,  transparent  and  inclusive,  in 
accordance with decision 62/557.
itself  with 
San  Marino  aligns 
the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Italy  on  behalf  of 
the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/73/PV.36), 
and  I  would  now  like  to  make  some  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
the 
the  past  10  years, 
Decision 62/557 indicates that credible reform of the 
Security  Council  requires  a  comprehensive  approach 
and  that  Member  States  must  drive  the  negotiations. 
Over 
intergovernmental 
negotiations have ensured the participation of all States 
Members of the United Nations in the reform process. 
The discussions, which were based on transparency and 
inclusivity, enabled us to identify broad commonalities 
among Member States. We know that wide divergences 
remain  on  critical  issues  of  reform.  It  is  now  our 
collective responsibility to move the process forward in 
order to find new convergences among Member States.
We  believe  that  we  should  work  on  the  idea  of  a 
compromise solution if we want to be able to achieve 
a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that 
can  garner  the  widest  possible  political  acceptance 
by  Member  States.  The  Uniting  for  Consensus  group 
compromise  solution 
the  principles  of 
democracy,  transparency  and  accountability  into  an 
enlarged  Security  Council,  in  addition  to  properly 
integrates 
addressing  the  request  of  regional  groups  to  correct 
their underrepresentation on the Council.
Our proposal is comprehensive, presenting a model 
of  reform  that  takes  into  account  the  interests  of  the 
Security  Council,  which  are  in  fact  aligned  with  the 
interests of all Member States. Now that we are all well 
aware  of  each  other’s  points  of  view  on  the  various 
aspects of the reform, we have to show flexibility and a 
spirit of compromise in order to build a credible process 
for Security Council reform.
Finally, I would like to wish the newly appointed 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform, the Permanent Representatives 
of Luxembourg and the United Arab Emirates, all the 
best  in  their  work.  They  can  count  on  the  support  of 
San Marino.
Mrs.  Bogyay  (Hungary):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for convening this important debate. After successfully 
agreeing in previous sessions on many groundbreaking 
reforms  related  to  all  of  the  main  pillars  of  the 
Organization  during  past  sessions,  we  must  not  rest. 
The  next  phase,  the  implementation  of  this  ambitious 
restructuring  plan,  is  still  ahead  of  us,  as  is  tackling 
perhaps the most difficult of all of the reform areas, the 
Security Council.
Hungary  firmly  believes  that  the  United  Nations 
reform  process  cannot  be  complete  until  its  main 
executive  body  is  adapted  to  the  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  The  integrated  nature  of  today’s 
threats clearly demands that we come up with lasting 
solutions.  As  the  President  rightly  mentioned  in 
her  opening  statement  to  the  General  Assembly  in 
September,
“continuing the process of the reform of the Security 
Council, in line with the will and commitment of 
States” (A/73/PV.1, p.3)
remains a priority. Hungary has long been a supporter 
of Security Council reform.
Let  me  now  thank  the  co-Chairs  of  the  previous 
session,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  the  United 
Arab Emirates and Georgia, and congratulate the two 
new  co-Chairs,  the  Ambassadors  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  and  Luxembourg.  Close  and  transparent 
consultations  with  all  Member  States  and  a  schedule 
planned well in advance were best practices during the 
previous session, and should be continued this year.
10/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
Hungary  believes  that  we  need  a  reasonably 
ambitious  but  realistic  agenda,  with  results-oriented, 
practical  discussions  on  all  five  reform  clusters.  We 
should not get caught in a loop of repeating the same 
intergovernmental negotiations sessions over and over 
again.  In  our  view,  all  of  the  important  documents 
agreed  during  previous  sessions  should  be  taken  into 
account.  That  will  enable  us  to  build  on  the  progress 
that  has  already  been  achieved.  Let  me  now  briefly 
underline the main points of the Hungarian position on 
Security Council reform.
With  regard 
to 
in  both 
the  permanent  and 
the  Security  Council’s  size 
and  configuration,  Hungary  continues  to  support 
its  enlargement 
the 
non-permanent  categories.  At  the  same  time,  we  are 
ready  to  examine  all  practical  proposals  in  the  hope 
of garnering the broadest possible support, as well as 
considering  interim  solutions.  Enlargement  must  be 
based  on  equitable  geographical  representation.  We 
call for a second non-permanent seat for the Group of 
Eastern European States, a request that stands under any 
enlargement model. We also recognize and respect the 
aspirations of other regional and cross-regional groups.
Enlargement  will  necessarily  require  overhauling 
the  Security  Council’s  working  methods.  We  have 
witnessed positive developments in that field that should 
be continued. As regards the relationship between the 
Security Council and the General Assembly, more must 
be done to achieve clearer and more detailed rules for 
the  Council’s  coordination  and  cooperation  with  the 
main organs of the United Nations, Member States and 
other stakeholders.
Concerning  the  question  of  the  veto,  we  are 
encouraged by Member States’ growing support for the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group’s 
code of conduct aimed at preventing or stopping atrocity 
crimes,  as  well  as  for  the  French-Mexican  proposal 
on voluntary restraint in the use of the veto power in 
certain  cases.  Those  initiatives  have  the  potential  to 
lead to a longer-term solution on that matter.
I would like to assure the President that Hungary’s 
constructive participation will continue in the future.
Mr. Edrees (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): My country’s 
delegation aligns itself with the statements delivered by 
the  representatives  of  Sierra  Leone,  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States, and Kuwait, on behalf of the 
Group  of  Arab  States  (see  A/73/PV.36).  I  would  also 
like to make some points in my national capacity.
including 
At the outset, I thank the President of the General 
Assembly  for  convening  this  plenary  meeting  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters  related  to  the  Security  Council,  which  is  of 
paramount  importance  for  all  members  of  the  United 
Nations.  I  commend  and  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
the  successive  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, 
the 
seventy-second  session  by  two  able  Ambassadors, 
Ms. Lana Nusseibeh and Mr. Kaha Imnadze, Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Georgia, respectively. We also welcome the decision to 
reappoint Ms. Nusseibeh as co-Chair of the negotiations 
at  the  current  session,  along  with  the  appointment  of 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg.  They 
will  build  on  the  work  of  previous  sessions  to  ensure 
consensus  and  confidence-building  among  all  States 
and groups. We wish them every success and underscore 
our full support for them.
those  made  during 
The United Nations is currently undergoing many 
reform  efforts  and  processes  that  can  strengthen  its 
ability  to  achieve  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations and enable it to address 
new  and  contemporary  international  challenges.  That 
will reinforce our belief in the importance of genuine 
and comprehensive reform of the Security Council as 
an essential basis of United Nations reform, particularly 
because  the  Council  is  responsible  for  maintaining 
international peace and security under Article 24 of the 
Charter.
That  Article  states  that  the  Council  fulfils  its 
responsibilities on behalf of all the States Members of 
the United Nations, which logically raises a number of 
questions. How can the Council represent the Members 
of  the  United  Nations  if  the  Council  itself  does  not 
equitably represent all the Members and groups of the 
Organization? Can equitable representation exist when 
the number of Council members has not increased since 
1965?  The  number  of  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  has  risen  from  117  to  193,  representing  an 
increase of almost 40 per cent in that time.
Moreover,  can  we  preserve  the  credibility  of  the 
Security Council and the legitimacy of its decisions if 
one of the main regional groups — the Group of African 
States,  which  represents  more  than  a  quarter  of  the 
membership of the United Nations — is not represented 
at all among the permanent members and very little in 
the Council as a whole? Those are not new questions. 
18-39086
11/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
They have been discussed in the General Assembly for 
the  past  two  decades,  but  over  the  years  the  need  for 
answers to be put forward has become more pressing.
to 
I  affirm  Egypt’s  strong  commitment 
the 
Common African Position, as contained in the Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  It  has  been 
reaffirmed  at  various  African  summits  and  offers  a 
global vision for Security Council reform, particularly 
on the question of the right of veto. The increasing in 
support  for  the  Common  African  Position  reflects  a 
growing recognition among the Members of the General 
Assembly of the need to end the historical injustice that 
has been committed against the African continent. That 
would enable Africa to play its due role as a full partner 
in the Council’s decision-making in general, and with 
regard  to  the  African  issues  on  the  Council’s  agenda 
in  particular,  considering  the  fact  that  African  issues 
represent the lion’s share of the Council’s work.
I also stress the importance of responding to the Arab 
States’ legitimate demand for equitable representation 
on an enlarged Council by granting them a permanent 
seat with all the related powers in any future Council 
enlargement,  notably  because  an  increasing  number 
of  the  issues  of  which  the  Council  is  seized  concern 
the  Arab  region.  I  must  commend  the  historical 
position  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries 
on  Security  Council  reform,  as  reaffirmed  recently 
during  the  Movement’s  Ministerial  Conference  held 
in Baku in April, affirming that enlarging the Council 
and reforming its working methods must make it more 
democratic,  representative,  effective  and  accountable. 
The Council must incorporate the interests and needs 
of  developed  and  developing  countries  alike  into  its 
work, in an objective and non-selective way.
In that regard, Egypt believes that there can be no 
true reform of the Security Council without resolving 
the  prevailing  structural  imbalance,  which  is  the 
hegemony  of  permanent  members  over  the  Council’s 
work,  since  they  possess  the  exclusive  right  of  veto. 
That demonstrates the rightness of the Common African 
Position,  which  calls  in  principle  for  the  abolition  of 
the  right  of  veto.  Until  that  happens,  new  permanent 
members  should  have  all  of  the  prerogatives  enjoyed 
by  the  permanent  membership,  leading  to  equitable 
representation. That is the main objective of the reform. 
In  that  regard,  any  proposal  that  calls  for  enlarging 
the permanent membership without resolving the veto 
question once and for all, and ensuring equality among 
all present and future States, would not establish true 
or fair reform of the Council and could even exacerbate 
its structural imbalance.
Egypt  reiterates  the  importance  of  continuing 
to  work  within  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
in  a  transparent  manner,  ensuring  inclusiveness  and 
national ownership of the reform process on the part of 
all Member States so as to achieve an agreed solution 
that enjoys the widest political acceptance with regard 
to  the  five  main  negotiated  issues,  as  provided  for  in 
decision 62/557, while also upholding paragraph (d) of 
that decision. The intergovernmental negotiations must 
be based on proposals from Member States. We fully 
believe that those clear parameters will form a frame of 
reference for the work of the negotiating group during 
the current session.
In  that  regard,  the  efforts  deployed  throughout 
the  three  most  recent  negotiating  cycles  have  focused 
on  producing  documents  that  reflect  the  areas  of 
commonality  and  divergence  of  all  positions  and 
proposals.  To  make  progress  during  this  session,  we 
must focus on having a true discussion on the positions 
and  proposals  while  understanding  the  various  points 
of  divergence,  in  order  to  move  closer  to  one  another 
and  achieve  solutions  that  can  enjoy  the  widest 
political  acceptance.  That  is  what  we  must  do  rather 
than  focusing  disproportionately  on  making  cosmetic 
changes to the document’s content in an effort to gloss 
over those differences without making real progress on 
finding solutions.
In  conclusion,  I  reaffirm  Egypt’s  commitment  to 
working  with  all  Member  States  within  the  African 
and Arab Groups to achieve comprehensive reform that 
will enable the Security Council to play its full role in 
maintaining international peace and security.
Mr. Pildegovičs (Latvia): I thank the President for 
convening this annual debate.
Since  the  2005  World  Summit,  many  calls  have 
been made for reforming the Security Council as soon 
as  possible,  making  it  more  representative,  efficient 
and transparent, in order to reflect the political realities 
of the twenty-first century. It is now the end of 2018, 
and we have still made little progress. As in previous 
years at this debate in the Assembly, Latvia would once 
again  like  to  emphasize  that  Security  Council  reform 
is  long  overdue.  We  should  all  aim  to  strengthen  that 
important organ’s legitimacy.
12/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
As we await the beginning of the next round of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, we note that some progress has been achieved 
in previous sessions, helping to clarify  Member States’ 
positions  on  various  aspects  of  the  reforms.  Those 
efforts  include  the  2015  framework  document,  which 
reflected the positions of more than half of the United 
Nations  membership;  the  paper  on  the  elements  of 
convergence on some aspects of the reform, discussed 
in 2016; and the paper on the elements of commonality 
and  issues  for  further  consideration,  which  we  have 
worked on during the previous two intergovernmental 
negotiation  sessions.  In  that  regard,  Latvia  sincerely 
appreciates  the  efforts  of  all  of  the  former  co-Chairs 
to  coordinate  the  work  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  also  appreciate  the  support  of  the 
current  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  her 
predecessors for advancing reform.
Despite  the  many  calls  for  starting  a  real,  text-
based negotiation process, clearly expressed during the 
previous session of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
the  cycle  of  repeating  well-known  positions  has 
continued. While we do not expect these negotiations to 
be fast and easy, we believe it is important to try taking 
further  steps  by  starting  negotiations  on  a  concrete 
text. We agree that the result must be achieved through 
careful consensus-building and must receive the widest 
political  acceptance.  Latvia  stands  ready  to  take  part 
in  negotiations  to  achieve  the  long-awaited  reform  of 
the Security Council, which should be the true goal of 
our deliberations.
I will now move on to specific aspects of reform. 
In our view, to ensure its legitimacy, all regions must 
be adequately represented on the Council. The reform 
should  ensure  the  equitable  geographic  distribution 
of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  in  the 
Council,  including  allocating  at  least  one  additional 
non-permanent seat to the Group of Eastern European 
States.  We  also  believe  that  during  the  nomination 
and  election  of  non-permanent  members  of 
the 
Council  due  consideration  should  be  given  to  the 
adequate  representation  of  small  and  medium-sized 
Member States.
Tthe question of the veto is clearly a very important 
part of Council reform. While the discussions of the use 
of  this  special  power  in  certain  circumstances  should 
continue,  some  things  should  not  be  beyond  debate. 
Blocking  the  work  of  the  Council  in  matters  related 
to  mass  atrocities  is  unacceptable.  The  Council’s 
permanent  members  should  refrain  from  using  their 
veto  in  situations  of  mass-atrocity  crimes,  and  we 
therefore  support  the  French-Mexican  initiative  in 
that  regard.  Latvia  has  signed  the  code  of  conduct 
regarding  Security  Council  action  against  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes,  and  we  are 
pleased to see that 118 Member States have joined this 
important initiative to date.
to 
the 
increase 
We also support improving the Security Council’s 
working  methods 
transparency, 
inclusiveness  and  representativeness  of  its  work.  We 
have  noted  some  positive  efforts  demonstrated  by 
Council  members  in  recent  years  in  the  direction  of 
transparency,  and  we  believe  that  such  approaches 
enhance  the  Council’s  legitimacy  and  facilitate  the 
implementation of its decisions.
In conclusion, Latvia believes that the capacity of 
the United Nations to address current global challenges 
largely depends on our political will to advance Security 
Council  reform.  We  look  forward  to  working  with 
the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
the  representatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Luxembourg, along with other Member States, in order 
to make progress on reform during this session of the 
General Assembly.
Mr.  Carazo  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening this annual debate on the issue of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council.  At  the  outset,  we  would  like  to 
thank  Ambassadors  Kaha  Imnadze  of  Georgia  and 
Lana Zaki Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates for 
their  hard  work  and  dedication  during  the  previous 
session of intergovernmental negotiations for Security 
Council  reform,  and  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
recognize the reappointment of Ambassador Nusseibeh 
and  the  new  appointment  of  Ambassador  Christian 
Braun,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as 
the facilitators of the process that we will resume in the 
next year. We reiterate our support for them and wish 
them every success in their work.
We  started  this  process  10  years  ago,  during 
which time we began to listen to each other, exchange 
opinions, identify aspects of divergence and also find 
various  elements  of  convergence,  which  we  firmly 
believe we can and must continue to build on. During 
the previous session of intergovernmental negotiations 
we made progress, especially in identifying the points 
18-39086
13/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
of  convergence  that  constitute  positive  steps  towards 
a  reform  based  on  consensus,  in  line  with  current 
international geopolitics and rooted in the principles of 
democracy and representativeness, which in our view 
continue to be the cornerstones of the Organization.
We have built our position on those principles, as 
reflected  in  the  representative  of  Italy’s  statement  on 
behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/73/
PV.36), which explained in detail our proposal, which 
we  believe  has  the  potential  to  deliver  the  greatest 
benefit  to  all  States.  The  group’s  proposal  seeks  to 
create  non-permanent  seats  for  longer  periods,  with 
the  possibility  of  re-election,  as  well  as  an  increase 
in  the  number  of  non-permanent  seats,  with  the  main 
objective  being  a  more  equitable  distribution  of 
seats  among  regional  groups  and  a  fairer  and  more 
transparent  rotation  system,  which  through  periodic 
elections would also deepen the democratization of the 
Council and States’ accountability for their actions in 
the Council.
Costa Rica believes firmly that only open and honest 
dialogue can enable us to make progress in this exercise. 
In  the  previous  Assembly  session  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus group held a series of bilateral consultations 
with other groups, in which we had the opportunity to 
explain  our  positions  and  identify  common  concerns, 
enabling  us  to  move  still  closer  towards  our  shared 
objective,  which  is  a  Security  Council  in  which  all 
States  feel  truly  represented.  As  part  of  Uniting  for 
Consensus,  Costa  Rica  will  continue  to  promote  a 
constructive  exchange  of  views,  guided  by  a  sense  of 
commitment  and  the  quest  for  consensus,  which  will 
strengthen the intergovernmental negotiating process.
Our main aim is to achieve a Security Council that 
is truly representative and effective in carrying out its 
tasks in the maintenance of international peace, security 
and  stability.  The  process  reflects  the  essence  and 
foundation  of  multilateralism,  and  we  must  therefore 
undertake it responsibly, with the aim of invigorating 
the  Security  Council,  and  with  the  ultimate  goal  of 
achieving a more efficient Organization that responds 
appropriately  to  the  current  global  environment  and 
whose fundamental objective is the general welfare of 
all its Members. Our country stands ready to achieve 
this objective.
Mr.  Bin  Momen  (Bangladesh):  We  thank  the 
President for convening this meeting as a curtain-raiser 
to  the  work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform  during  the  seventy-third 
session of the General Assembly.
Bangladesh  reaffirms  the  central  role  of  the 
Assembly  on  the  question  of  equitable  representation 
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council and other matters relating to the Council. We 
emphasize the importance of sustaining the momentum 
of  discussions  to  identify  elements  of  convergence 
among  Member  States  on  the  five  interrelated  and 
mutually-reinforcing  issues  within  the  purview  of 
this agenda.
Bangladesh welcomes the appointment of the new 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
looks forward to seeing an outline of their plan of work 
as soon as possible, with suggestions on the format and 
purpose for the discussions going forward. We reiterate 
the importance of commencing text-based negotiations 
with  a  view  to  achieving  tangible  and  meaningful 
outcomes.  In  the  last  couple  of  years,  we  have  seen 
active interest among a large number of delegations in 
taking the discussions forward in a decisive direction. 
We  have  also  seen  others  open  to  engaging  in  free, 
frank,  interactive  dialogues  to  explore  answers  to 
certain outstanding issues.
It is critical that we bear in mind the comprehensive 
nature of the Council’s reform agenda and the primacy 
of a set of objective, rational and non-arbitrary criteria 
to  inform  and  guide  the  outcome  of  the  ongoing 
negotiations.  It  should  be  in  the  shared  interest  of  all 
Member States to maintain the forward-leaning thrust 
of those discussions in a collegial atmosphere.
The  last  intergovernmental  negotiations  session 
yielded a paper that should form the basis of our work 
next year. There is no need per se to repeat the positions 
of  different  groups  and  delegations,  with  which  we 
are  more  or  less  familiar.  We  continue  to  recognize 
the  importance  of  a  document  that  describes  all  the 
different  positions  on  issues  for  further  consideration 
so that there can be actual negotiations among Member 
States. It is incumbent on all of us to preserve the gains 
that have been made in the previous intergovernmental 
negotiations sessions and to continue to build on them.
To  briefly  recapitulate  our  position,  Bangladesh 
reiterates  its  support  for  enlarging  the  Council  in 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories. 
We subscribe to the view that the size of the enlarged 
Council  should  be  in  the  mid-twenties  range  and 
ideally  26.  There  should  be  adequate  representation 
14/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
for  different  regional  blocs,  especially  those  that  are 
disproportionately  underrepresented  in  the  current 
composition.  The  case  for 
the  representation  of 
Africa on the Council has been convincingly made at 
intergovernmental negotiations sessions, and deserves 
to be considered in the right context.
We consider it advisable to apply restraints on the 
exercise of the veto by permanent members of the Council 
in cases of the gravest crimes under international law. 
The outstanding issues related to the Council’s working 
methods,  including  its  provisional  rules  of  procedure 
and the enhanced role for elected members, should be 
addressed without unnecessary delay.
The  entry  into  effect  of  various  reform  measures 
at the United Nations starting next year should create 
momentum  for  demonstrable  reform  in  the  Security 
Council.  As  other  delegations  have  indicated,  the 
imminent  seventy-fifth  anniversary  of  the  founding 
of  the  United  Nations  is  an  opportune  target  date  for 
achieving concrete progress in that regard. The renewed 
and overwhelming political support we are witnessing 
for multilateralism should propel us to forge a Security 
Council that reflects the realities and aspirations of the 
twenty-first century.
Mrs. Gueguen (France) (spoke in French): France 
congratulates  Ambassadors  Lana  Zaki  Nusseibeh, 
Permanent Representative of the United Arab Emirates, 
and  Christian  Braun,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Luxembourg,  on 
their  appointment  as  co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform.  We  know  that  we  can  count  on  their 
dynamism and determination, as well as their ability to 
bring positions closer together through a constructive 
dialogue.  France  will  fully  support  them  in  order  to 
ensure the success of their mission.
Let  us  be  clear.  Year  after  year,  we  take  up 
the  same  discussions  on  Security  Council  reform 
without  initiating  real  negotiations.  However,  during 
recent  sessions  the  Chairs  have  made  real  efforts  in 
a  particularly  difficult  context  that  have  led  to  the 
adoption of useful documents. By way of illustration, we 
have the drafting under the leadership of Ambassador 
Courtenay  Rattray  of  a  framework  document  during 
the  sixty-ninth  session  that  could  lead  to  global 
negotiations,  the  elements  of  convergence  adopted 
under the leadership of Ambassador Sylvie Lucas, and 
the common points established under the leadership of 
Ambassadors Mohamed Khaled Khiari and Ion Jinga, 
and  subsequently  of  Ambassadors  Nusseibeh  and 
Imnadze,  whom  I  warmly  thank  for  their  patient  and 
deliberate efforts during the previous session. But those 
developments must not hide our collective inability to 
move forward on this issue, despite its importance for 
the Organization, and to bring about the strengthened, 
exacting and evolving multilateralism that we are calling 
for, a modern multilateralism capable of responding to 
the global challenges of our time.
However, the situation is urgent and crucial to the 
relevance,  credibility,  equity  and  effectiveness  of  our 
Organization. The issue of Security Council reform is 
now as pressing as it was at the 2005 World Summit, 
when we adopted resolution 60/1, calling for reforming 
the  Council  in  order  to  make  it  more  representative 
and legitimate. Given the lack of progress since then, 
the impatience and weariness of States and peoples is 
growing  and  understandable.  We  must  reiterate  that 
the  Assembly  should  assume  its  responsibilities  and 
conduct frank and comprehensive negotiations.
This  reform  is  critical.  The  Security  Council 
must  better  reflect  the  realities  of  today’s  world, 
while  strengthening  its  capacity  to  fully  assume  its 
responsibilities  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  Reform  is  all  the  more  essential 
as the Secretary-General is undertaking the ambitious 
reform of the Organization’s three pillars — peace and 
security, development and the management of the United 
Nations — with the support of the General Assembly.
Like  a  very  large  majority  of  delegations,  France 
believes  that  to  make  such  decisive  progress,  it  is 
essential  to  start  text-based  negotiations  as  soon  as 
possible.  We  are  counting  on  the  new  Chairs  to  work 
towards that goal.
France’s  position  on  the  substance  of  reform  is 
consistent and well known. We hope that the Council 
will take into account the emergence of new Powers that 
have the desire and capacity to assume the responsibility 
of  a  permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  and  that 
are in a position to make a significant contribution to 
the  Council’s  work,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter 
of the United Nations. In this regard, France supports 
the  candidacy  of  Germany,  Brazil,  India  and  Japan 
as  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and 
endorses increasing the presence of African countries 
among  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  members. 
This essential change is overdue.
18-39086
15/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
As President Macron stated when he addressed the 
General Assembly in September, our response to crises 
must not be hindered by Security Council divisions (see 
A/73/PV.6).  It  was  in  that  spirit  that  France  proposed 
several years ago that the five permanent members of the 
Council voluntarily and collectively suspend the use of 
the veto in the event of mass atrocities. This voluntary 
approach  requires  only  a  political  commitment,  not  a 
revision of the Charter.
Today, this initiative, which we have implemented 
jointly with Mexico, is supported by 101 countries. In 
the  same  spirit,  the  code  of  conduct  drawn  up  by  the 
Accountability,  Coherence  and  Transparency  group, 
which France supports, has also attracted a very large 
number of backers. With this momentum, we urge the 
other  Member  States  to  join  us.  It  is  in  the  common 
interest of all Member States that the Security Council 
fulfil  its  mandate  and  play  its  full  role,  particularly 
in  situations  of  mass  atrocities.  The  initiatives  on 
the  framework  of  the  right  of  veto,  which  make  for  a 
fairer,  more  responsible  and  more  effective  Council, 
complement  the  overall  reform  of  the  Council,  which 
France  will  continue 
to  champion  with  passion 
and determination.
It is up to us collectively to assess our responsibilities 
to  change  the  status  quo  in  the  interest  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  difficulty  of  such  a  reform  must  not 
detract from its urgency.
Mr.  Inguanez  (Malta):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for  convening  today’s  meeting.  Malta  would  like  to 
express  its  appreciation  to  the  outgoing  Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Georgia,  for  their  service  and 
work  during  the  past  session.  We  would  also  like 
to  congratulate  the  new  Chairs  of  this  session,  the 
Permanent Representatives of the United Arab Emirates 
again and Luxembourg, and to assure them of Malta’s 
support and constructive engagement in the process.
Malta  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  Italy,  who  spoke  on 
behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see  A/73/
PV.36).  I  would  also  like  to  add  the  following  in  my 
national capacity.
Lately we have been hearing a lot about the pressures 
on  multilateralism  today.  Indeed,  several  speakers 
today,  including  the  one  who  immediately  preceded 
me,  have  referred  to  the  issue  of  multilateralism.  By 
way of providing a contribution from a small State to 
the  discussion  on  the  Security  Council,  today  I  want 
to elaborate on the term “multilateralism” and to share 
our thoughts.
The reform of the Security Council can be observed 
from  a  multitude  of  angles.  There  is  the  internal 
aggregate  perspective,  which  relates  to  the  workings 
and the balance of authority within an enlarged Security 
Council.  There  is  also  the  individual  Member  State 
perspective,  which  relates  to  the  respective  interests, 
concerns and positions of Member States or groups of 
countries.  Additionally,  there  is  the  external  view  of 
Security  Council  reform,  which  relates  to  how  a  new 
and  enlarged  Security  Council  would  bring  relevance 
to  today’s  world  challenges  and  to  the  ever-important 
notion  and  practice  of  multilateralism.  We  all  agree 
that  all  of  those  angles  are  key  to  our  discussion,  yet 
they also prove to be delicate and sensitive. However, 
perhaps part of the greatest impact of Security Council 
reform will be on the last-mentioned aspect, which will 
affect the conduct of multilateralism, and more so now 
that the international rules-based order is under strong 
pressure and criticism.
Multilateralism 
is  not  only  weakened  when 
States decide to move in an isolationist and unilateral 
manner  and  stop  working  together  with  other  States 
to achieve something or deal with a problem. It is also 
significantly weakened when the foundation of the very 
body  that  represents  the  epitome  of  multilateralism 
is  flawed.  True  and  effective  multilateralism  occurs 
when  international  governance  is  based  on  equal  and 
non-discriminatory  power-sharing  among  the  players 
that  compose  it,  where  each  and  every  State  has  the 
same  weight  of  power  and  plays  on  the  same  level 
playing field.
It  is  true  that  the  only  universal  multilateral 
organization,  which  is  the  United  Nations,  cannot  be 
called  perfect.  It  is  also  true  that  the  United  Nations 
of today does not reflect twenty-first-century realities. 
That is why we all agree on the idea of reforming and 
improving it. However, improvement in multilateralism 
does not come by or through an increase in the number of 
the haves as distinct from the have-nots. On the contrary, 
such  an  increase  can  only  vitiate  multilateralism 
further. It will not make the United Nations more equal 
or more multilateral. It will accentuate the class-based 
view  that  the  United  Nations,  unfortunately,  holds  at 
the moment.
16/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
Genuine 
improvement 
in  multilateralism  will 
happen  when  the  only  universal  multilateral  body 
is  reformed  in  such  a  way  that  the  gap  between  what 
the  haves  have  and  the  have-nots  do  not  is  reduced. 
Admittedly,  it  is  hard  to  get  those  who  have  to  have 
less.  But  it  is  more  feasible  to  add  something  to  the 
basket  of  those  who  do  not  have.  We  therefore  need 
more  commitment  to  strengthening  multilateralism, 
and investment in multilateralism is well worth it and 
will  contribute  significantly  to  the  sustainability  of 
multilateralism. That is what the Uniting for Consensus 
group has painstakingly tried to do throughout the years.
I  think  it  is  valuable  to  keep  in  mind  that  when 
it  comes  to  talking  about  constructive  dialogue,  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  has  presented  a  model 
and not just a proposal. It has presented a model that 
is  complete  rather  than  one  that  leaves  substantial 
parts  still  to  be  negotiated,  which  could  then  lead  to 
an  unravelling  of  the  checks  and  balances  and  the 
compensatory measures that exist in the whole package 
of reform. It is a model that is egalitarian in approach, 
because  it  does  not  give  one  country  or  group  of 
countries an advantage over others. It is a model that 
is  comprehensive,  because  it  advances  everybody’s 
aspirations and interests in what is of course a realistic 
and pragmatic scenario. It is a rectifying model, since 
it seeks to correct past imbalances and injustice. Above 
all, it is a counterbalancing model, because it seeks to 
counterbalance the weight of the permanent five of the 
Security Council vis-à-vis the other elected members of 
the Security Council.
We  are  under  no  illusion  as  to  the  magnitude  of 
the  challenge  ahead.  Yet  it  is  only  over  time  that  an 
objective idea can be formed of the impact that what is 
being discussed today might have on the multilateralism 
of  tomorrow.  It  is  only  time  that  will  enable  Member 
States to reflect on the way multilateral diplomacy will 
unfold  in  the  years  to  come,  through  the  discussions 
of today.
Mr. Hilale (Morocco) (spoke in French): I would 
first like to congratulate the Permanent Representative 
of the United Arab Emirates, Ms. Lana Nusseibeh, on 
her reappointment as co-Chair of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform,  as  well 
as  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg, 
Mr.  Christian  Braun,  on  his  appointment  to  the  other 
co-Chair position.
Security Council reform is an integral part of United 
Nations  reform.  In  that  respect,  we  consider  that  the 
important  reforms  initiated  by  the  Secretary-General 
since his mandate began are part of the desire to ensure 
that  the  United  Nations  is  an  organization  that  keeps 
pace with global change and the realities of our times. 
We will therefore continue to call for rapid reform and 
the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council,  with  a  view 
to 
its  representativeness,  effectiveness 
increasing 
and legitimacy.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Sierra  Leone,  on 
behalf of the Group of African States, and Kuwait, on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  Arab  States  (see  A/73/PV.36). 
In  addition,  I  want  to  highlight  the  following  in  my 
national capacity.
The framework defined by decision 62/557 remains 
appropriate for advancing our discussions and engaging 
us  in  real  negotiations.  Reform  of  the  Council  should 
be comprehensive, taking into account the five clusters 
and their interrelatedness. It should enable it to be more 
representative, but not at the expense of its effectiveness 
or efficiency, and especially not its accountability. As 
far as Morocco is concerned, the Charter of the United 
Nations has designated the Security Council as the main 
body responsible for maintaining peace and security in 
the  world.  That  is  a  clear  and  unambiguous  mandate. 
Any contribution by the General Assembly to matters 
of peace and security can therefore be conceived only 
if  it  is  in  conformity  with  the  respective  mandates  of 
the two organs and in full compliance with Article 12, 
paragraph 1, of the Charter.
Africa  is  the  only  region  not  represented  in  the 
permanent-member  category  of  the  Security  Council. 
That  historical  injustice  against  Africa  should  impel 
all  of  us  to  rectify  the  situation.  That  can  be  done 
by  ensuring  adequate  African  representation  in  the 
permanent-membership  category  and  strengthening 
Africa’s  presence  in  the  category  of  non-permanent 
members.  Indeed,  the  African  request  is  clear.  It 
should  have  no  fewer  than  two  permanent  seats,  with 
all  their  prerogatives  and  privileges,  including  the 
right  of  veto  —  if  that  continues  to  exist  —  and  five 
non-permanent seats.
We are pleased with the consensus among Member 
States on certain issues, including Africa’s position on 
the  Security  Council  and  the  redress  of  the  historical 
injustice done to the continent. In that regard, I wish to 
18-39086
17/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
reiterate that Morocco, which subscribes to the Common 
African Position espoused in the Ezulwini Consensus, 
supports the fair and equitable representation of Africa 
in both categories of seats, as previously described. It 
will then be up to Africa to decide on its representatives 
in the reformed Security Council.
Similarly, the absence of permanent representation 
for the Arab countries, despite the fact that they, like 
the  Group  of  African  States,  are  extremely  involved 
in  the  issues  that  the  Security  Council  deals  with,  is 
highly unfortunate. A permanent Arab seat, with all of 
its prerogatives, as well as adequate representation in 
the category of non-permanent members, would make 
it possible to meet the legitimate demands of the Group 
of Arab States.
While  recognizing  the  critical  and  challenging 
issues  that  we  will  need  to  address,  as  well  as  the 
challenges  that  we  will  have  to  overcome,  we  believe 
that we must speed up the intergovernmental negotiation 
process, as the credibility of our work and of the process 
itself is at stake.
like 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s  support  for  the  two  co-Chairs,  and  our 
hope  that  the  next  session  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation process will provide a genuine platform for 
dialogue  and  constructive  exchange  that  will  enable 
our  positions  to  converge.  Finally,  I  want  to  assure 
the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  of  my  delegation’s  full 
support in the conduct of our work and the fulfilment 
of their mandate.
Mr.  Licharz  (Germany):  Germany  aligns  itself 
fully with the statement delivered by the representative 
of  India  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Four  (see  A/73/
PV.36). Allow me to add a few remarks.
After  listening  carefully  to  today’s  debate,  we 
have to say that it greatly resembles last year’s debate 
and  those  of  previous  years.  We  must  realize  that  if 
we continue like this, not only will we miss a historic 
opportunity to lift the United Nations into the twenty-
first  century,  we  will  miss  our  historic  obligation  to 
do that very thing. If we continue in this way, we risk 
failing the test of time.
Germany, along with the Group of Four and other 
supporters of Security Council reform, has reached out 
to as many Member States and groups as possible. We 
will continue to do our utmost to garner the broadest 
support possible for the much-needed Security Council 
reform. The vast majority of the statements in today’s 
debate are once again reassuring in that respect.
the 
However, 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
appear less and less capable of achieving real progress on 
this extremely important issue. The focus on consensus 
decisions in the negotiations rewards the naysayers, as 
Ambassador  Akbaruddin  has  very  aptly  pointed  out. 
We cannot allow the great majority of Member States, 
which  want  to  make  progress,  to  be  held  hostage  by 
a  small  number  of  States  that  refuse  to  move  from  a 
circular discussion to a real negotiation process.
Germany  agrees  with  those  who  ask  for  as  broad 
a consensus as possible. That is what we have always 
striven  for  in  the  General  Assembly.  What  is  alien  to 
our work in the Assembly, however, is the requirement 
that  we  arrive  at  some  prior  consensus  before  even 
starting  to  negotiate.  We  have  to  work  the  other  way 
around. We need to start negotiating in order to finally 
come to that broad consensus.
If  we  do  not  succeed  in  reforming  the  Security 
Council, it will lose even more of its already damaged 
credibility  and  will  be  overshadowed  by  other  global 
decision-making  bodies  or,  even  worse,  by  unilateral 
decision-making  alone.  Surely  we  cannot  allow  the 
Security Council to remain captive within a structure 
that mirrors the past rather than the present or the future. 
The Council needs the political backing of the broader 
membership, or its ability to resolve international crises 
will  suffer  further.  We  need  a  strong,  legitimate  and 
representative United Nations that can help to restore 
confidence in global governance and cooperation.
That is especially true in these trying times. Many 
of  us  are  worried  that  the  rules-based  international 
order is under threat. Many leaders have lamented the 
resurgence  of  unilateralism  during  the  general  debate 
from this very rostrum. We need to stand up together 
for the preservation and further development of an order 
that helps to overcome nationalism and unilateralism. 
We need to make the United Nations work, and for that 
we need a representative Security Council.
Today  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States  have 
once again expressed the need for real Security Council 
reform. We need to move forward and not waste more 
of the precious time that is running out if we wish to 
safeguard  a  strong  United  Nations.  In  that  sense,  we 
very  much  look  forward  to  working  together  with 
members,  including  Ambassadors  Lana  Nusseibeh 
18/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Christian  Braun  of 
Luxembourg, whom I congratulate on their appointment 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security Council reform, as well as with the President 
of the General Assembly.
Mr. Moraru (Republic of Moldova): At the outset, 
I want to express our appreciation to the President of 
the General Assembly for convening the annual debate 
on Security Council reform.
My  delegation  welcomes 
the  appointment  of 
Ambassadors  Lana  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  and  Christian  Braun  of  Luxembourg  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  next  round  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  would 
like to express our support for their future work.
including  within 
the  framework  of 
For  more  than  25  years  Security  Council  reform 
has  been  comprehensively  debated  at  the  United 
Nations, 
the 
intergovernmental working group. Member States have 
been  able  to  achieve  a  certain  amount  of  progress, 
which is attested to by our increasing convergence on 
some important elements of reform. Yet there are still 
differences  of  opinion  about  how  we  should  conduct 
the negotiations and the text they should be based on. 
My delegation welcomes all efforts to move the debates 
forward. The Republic of Moldova has always pleaded 
for an enlarged and more democratic Security Council. 
The  Council  should  better  reflect  the  contemporary 
world, and that means more representation for Africa, 
Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
Like  many  other  Member  States,  we  believe  that 
any  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  go  beyond 
just  increasing  the  number  of  seats.  There  have  been 
too  many  instances  in  which  the  Security  Council 
did  not  discharge  its  functions  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
It  is  therefore  important  that  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  deliver  an  outcome  that  will  strengthen 
the  effectiveness,  accountability,  inclusiveness  and 
transparency of the Council.
Reform  should  also  ensure  that  the  Security 
Council  and  its  members  act  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  that  the  Council’s 
decisions  reflect  the  collective  will  of  the  general 
membership. The threat of the use of the veto is one of 
the biggest obstacles to the effective performance of the 
Security Council, irrespective of its configuration. As 
a general principle, we view the reform as a possibility 
for  minimizing  the  use  of  the  right  of  veto  rather 
than  creating  pretexts  for  its  expansion,  which  could 
jeopardize the Council’s effectiveness. As a signatory 
to the code of conduct of the Accountability, Coherence 
and  Transparency  group,  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
advocates against the use of the veto in cases of mass-
atrocity crimes and welcomes the pledges made so far 
in that regard.
Reform  must  also  bring  improvements  in  the 
Council’s  working  methods,  potentially  leading  to 
gradual  approval  of  the  Council’s  rules  of  procedure 
so  that  they  are  no  longer  provisional.  The  Council’s 
working methods and its relationship with the General 
Assembly  are  indeed  very  important  matters,  as 
they  determine  the  daily  dynamics  of  the  system. 
A  large  number  of  delegations  have  contributed  to 
finding  commonalities  during  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  process,  most  recently  including  through 
their  inputs  into  the  revised  elements  paper  that 
resulted  from  the  five  intergovernmental  negotiations 
meetings  during  the  seventy-second  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
In  that  context,  I  want  to  express  our  gratitude 
to  the  previous  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform, Ambassadors 
Lana  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Kaha Imnadze of Georgia. Their approach to steering 
the  discussions  by  ensuring  the  transparency  and 
inclusivity  of  the  process  was  much  appreciated,  and 
we  believe  that  those  principles  should  guide  future 
deliberations of the working group.
The  five  clusters  related  to  Security  Council 
reform — the membership categories, the veto question, 
regional representation, the size of the enlarged Council 
and its working methods, and the relationship between 
the General Assembly and the Council — are certainly 
not  simple  matters,  but  the  difficulty  of  such  reforms 
does not diminish the pressing need for them.
As we enter the next phase of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on reform, we have to build on the progress 
achieved  in  the  past.  That  is  where  flexibility  is  so 
essential, especially from the five permanent members, 
who  enjoy  most  of  the  prerogatives  and  powers  not 
only in the Council but throughout the United Nations 
system. Obviously, the result of the negotiations must 
be backed by all Member States. In our opinion, only a 
broad-based consensus can ensure that we will be able 
to fully implement an agreement once negotiations are 
18-39086
19/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
concluded. The Republic of Moldova will continue to 
support an accelerated and outcome-driven process and 
a Council that serves the purposes of the Charter and 
our common vision of a rules-based and peaceful world.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing 
my  delegation’s  readiness  to  work  with  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform with the goal of achieving a meaningful outcome.
Mr.  Amayo  (Kenya):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening this important meeting, which we believe is 
crucial not only to the advancement of multilateralism 
but also for its relevance to the very core of the future 
of the United Nations, including its aims and purposes.
At the outset, Kenya aligns itself with the statement 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Sierra 
Leone  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African  States  (see 
A/73/PV.36).
My  delegation’s  position  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  is  consistent  and  well  documented. 
The Common African Position on this important agenda 
item  is  clearly  expounded  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus 
and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  Africa’s  goal  is  to  be  fully 
represented  in  all  the  decision-making  organs  of  the 
United  Nations,  particularly  the  Security  Council.  In 
that regard, Kenya continues to call for the expansion of 
the Security Council in both categories of membership, 
permanent  and  non-permanent,  with  no  less  than  two 
permanent  seats,  and  two  additional  non-permanent 
seats,  for  Africa.  We  reaffirm  the  African  position 
that  the  enlarged  Security  Council  should  consist 
of  not  less  than  26  members  and  that  Africa  should 
retain  the  responsibility  for  selecting  its  candidates 
for the enlarged Council. As a matter of principle, the 
new  members  of  the  Council  should  have  the  same 
responsibilities and obligations as the current members.
Africa  is  the  largest  region  in  terms  of  United 
Nations membership and figures directly in the bulk of 
the  topics  on  the  United  Nations  agenda,  particularly 
the  Security  Council’s.  As  such,  any  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  should  ensure  Africa’s  legitimate 
right to fair and equitable geographical representation 
in the Security Council.
The five key reform issues identified in decisions 
61/561 of 2007 and 62/557 of 2008 remain the guiding 
principles  for  our  work  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. They include the categories of membership 
to  the  Council,  regional  representation,  the  question 
of  the  veto,  the  size  of  an  enlarged  Council  and  its 
working methods, as well as the relationship between 
the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  Those  issues 
are  important  areas  in  our  quest  for  finding  a  more 
inclusive  and  representative  body  that  can  handle  the 
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  on  matters  of 
peace and security, as well as related aspects.
While  divergent  opinions  remain,  we  are  fully 
convinced that all of the five clusters of of the reform 
under  consideration  by  the  intergovernmental  process 
are interlinked and mutually reinforcing. As such, we 
should endeavour to bring our positions closer, and we 
hereby  urge  all  delegations  to  muster  the  necessary 
political will to do so. My delegation believes that the 
Common African Position is a solid basis for bridging 
the  divergent  positions  in  this  process,  as  it  provides 
the  main  areas  for  discussion  on  issues  affecting 
many countries.
Kenya  recognizes 
that  most  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  participating  in  successive 
intergovernmental  negotiations  sessions  favour  the 
expansion of the Security Council. That is important, as 
it is now all the more evident that the global environment 
has become more uncertain, and multilateralism itself 
appears to be on trial. The legitimacy and effectiveness 
of the Security Council will increasingly be called into 
question.  We  believe  that  the  time  has  now  come  to 
respect  and  facilitate  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the 
majority of Member States.
Nonetheless,  we  commend  the  constructive  and 
courageous  efforts  made  during  the  seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly to improve the Security 
Council’s  relationships  with  other  United  Nations 
organs, as well as with regional organizations such as 
the African Union. We also welcome the developments 
in  the  direction  of  enhancing  the  Security  Council’s 
working methods. We hope that the same commitment 
will be maintained during the current session.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the 
initiatives  from  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly aimed at moving the reform process 
forward.  We  look  forward  to  further  engaging  in 
open,  transparent  and  inclusive  deliberations  on  this 
important agenda item during the seventy-third session 
of the General Assembly.
Mr. Tshosar (Bhutan): At the outset, my delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  convening 
20/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
this  important  meeting  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Security Council.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  sincere 
appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
second session, for his leadership, as well as to the two 
co-Chairs,  Ambassadors  Kaha  Imnadze  of  Georgia 
and Lana Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates, for 
their contribution and hard work in steering the work of 
the intergovernmental negotiations process during the 
seventy-second session.
Bhutan welcomes the appointment of Ambassador 
Christian Braun of Luxembourg and the reappointment 
of  Ambassador  Lana  Nusseibeh  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  as  co-Chairs  of  the  negotiations  during  this 
session.  We  believe  that  Ambassador  Nusseibeh’s 
reappointment will ensure the continuity of the process 
and  Ambassador  Braun  will  bring  in  fresh  ideas  to 
take the process forward. I want to assure them of my 
delegation’s full support and cooperation, and we wish 
them every success.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines on behalf of the L.69 group (see A/73/
PV.36). I would also like to make the following remarks 
in my national capacity.
We  meet  yet  again  this  year  to  deliberate  on  this 
important issue. We have been debating this matter for 
more than 25 years. Unfortunately, meaningful progress 
has eluded us, owing to strong divergences of views on 
how to achieve reform. As we embark on a new phase 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  hope  to  see 
tangible  progress,  because  otherwise,  the  legitimacy 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  will  be 
in question.
During 
the  current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  most  of  the  Heads 
of  State  and  others  underscored  in  their  addresses 
to  the  Assembly,  as  well  as  in  various  other  forums, 
the 
importance  of  strengthening  multilateralism. 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  integral  part  of 
strengthening multilateralism.
the  high-level  week  of 
Bhutan,  like  many  other  Member  States,  believes 
that  reforming  and  expanding  the  Security  Council 
are  essential  to  its  continued  legitimacy,  effective 
decision-making  and  greater  accountability  to  the 
general membership. Every institution must adapt and 
evolve in order to stay relevant and fit for purpose so 
as to able to address the multifaceted challenges of the 
twenty-first century.
My delegation reiterates its position in support of 
equitable geographical representation aimed at ensuring 
the adequate representation of under- or unrepresented 
regions.  At  present,  entire  continents  and  regions  are 
either  underrepresented  or  have  no  representation  on 
the  Security  Council  at  all.  Bhutan  also  supports  the 
expansion of the Security Council in both the permanent 
and the non-permanent membership categories.
Bhutan  believes 
that 
the  membership  of 
the 
Security Council should come from both developed and 
developing countries, including small island developing 
States and small States. Every country, regardless of its 
size or might, must be given the opportunity to serve 
on the reformed Council, especially given the fact that 
small States make up about 20 per cent of the United 
Nations membership. Small States also bring important 
and unique perspectives on a variety of issues that are 
being considered at the General Assembly.
As  we  embark  on 
the  eleventh  session  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  would  like  to 
request that the new co-Chairs build on the outcomes of 
the previous sessions rather than start from scratch. As 
we  are  all  aware,  despite  many  years  of  deliberations 
on  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  there  has  been  no 
tangible  result.  That  is  not  due  to  a  lack  of  views  or 
proposals, but because of the absence of a negotiation 
text. It is therefore now imperative to take the logical 
step and commence real negotiations on the basis of a 
text,  as  with  all  other  intergovernmental  negotiation 
processes  at  the  United  Nations,  an  idea  that  the 
vast  majority  of  Member  States  have  expressed  in 
their statements.
My delegation is hopeful that the coming round of 
intergovernmental negotiations will result in meaningful 
progress, in an open, inclusive and transparent manner, 
under  the  President’s  able  leadership.  To  that  end, 
we  look  forward  to  engaging  constructively  with 
all delegations.
Mr.  Mayong  Onon  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to 
commend  the  President  for  convening  this  important 
annual  debate.  Malaysia  has  been  consistent 
in 
reiterating our position that the reform of the Security 
Council should be comprehensive, both in terms of its 
18-39086
21/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
working methods and the expansion of its membership, 
in  order  to  make  it  more  legitimate,  representative, 
democratic, accountable and transparent.
We  support  the  expansion  of  both  the  permanent 
and non-permanent categories of membership in order 
to  strengthen  the  role  and  representativeness  of  the 
Council.  An  increase  in  non-permanent  seats  would 
allow more Member States to be elected to the Council 
and increase the frequency with which Member States 
can serve on the Council, thereby making the Council’s 
decision-making process more inclusive.
On  the  question  of  the  veto,  Malaysia  affirms 
its  call  for  abolishing  its  use  in  its  present  form.  A 
veto  should  require  a  negative  vote  not  from  just  one 
permanent member but at least two, supported by three 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council. 
We  support  and  advocate  for  the  current  use  of  veto 
to  be  regulated  in  situations  involving  mass-atrocity 
crimes  such  as  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity  or 
war crimes.
The  current  framework  of  the  negotiations  is 
not  bringing  us  any  closer  to  reforming  the  Security 
Council.  To  engage  in  robust  negotiations,  we  need 
a  working  text.  Malaysia  reiterates  that  text-based 
negotiations  are  the  ideal  step  forward  in  the  reform 
process.  The  working  draft  should  encompass  all  of 
the various proposals by Member States, as that would 
enable  us  to  clearly  identify  areas  where  differences 
could be bridged. Negotiations could therefore continue 
to be conducted in an inclusive and transparent manner.
I  want  to  conclude  by  assuring  the  President  of 
my delegation’s support for her, for the new co-Chairs 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  and  for 
all  Member  States.  Let  us  all  start  the  next  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  with  the  intention  of 
moving the reform process forward. We urge Member 
States  to  demonstrate  openness,  flexibility,  sincerity 
and  the  political  will  to  work  towards  a  mutually 
acceptable conclusion. It is important that real progress 
be  achieved  during  the  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): I thank 
the President of the General Assembly for organizing 
this  meeting 
to 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
issues  relating 
to  consider 
the 
Our deliberations on the issue for nearly the entire 
past  30  years  have  been  based  on  the  assumption 
that  the  Council  has  failed  to  keep  pace  with  the 
significant  changes  in  the  world.  That  assumption  is 
stronger and more plausible and valid today than in the 
past.  Nonetheless,  our  only  achievement  during  that 
period  has  been  some  limited  success  with  regard  to 
the  Council’s  working  methods.  It  is  clear,  then,  that 
significant  progress  has  yet  to  be  made  concerning 
substantive matters, such as the size and composition 
of the Council, its accountability and the right of veto.
However,  the  complexity  and  sensitivity  of  the 
subject  can  in  no  way  justify  any  further  delay  in 
that  process.  The  diminishing  trust  in  the  Council 
and the erosion of its credibility oblige us to take our 
responsibility seriously. That of course requires political 
will, flexibility and a spirit of compromise. The Council 
must become more democratic, representative, effective 
and, above all, completely rules-based and accountable. 
The  Council’s  composition  does  not  correspond  to 
today’s  realities.  In  order  to  be  representative  of  the 
world  that  it  is  mandated  to  protect,  that  deficiency 
must  be  thoroughly  addressed.  To  that  end,  among 
other  things,  developing  countries  should  be  more 
fairly represented in the Council. Likewise, the right of 
veto has always been a subject of criticism on the part 
of a significant majority of Member States. Addressing 
that  issue  should  therefore  continue  to  be  one  of  the 
main elements of our deliberations.
The  Council’s  failure  to  adequately  improve  its 
working  methods  and  decision-making  process  has 
resulted in a deficit of trust and in the loss of a sense 
of the legitimacy of its decisions. Making the Council 
evolve into a rule-based and accountable organ should 
therefore be at the centre of our efforts. That could help 
to strengthen the legitimacy of the Council’s decisions.
In  recent  decades,  the  Council  has  increasingly 
and excessively resorted to its Chapter VII functions, 
as  if  there  were  no  other  provision  in  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations. That particularly applies to the use 
of sanctions in cases in which no action needed to be 
taken. As a result, in some cases the sovereign rights 
of States, as well as human rights, have been seriously 
violated. Chapter VII must be invoked only as intended 
by the Charter. It is a measure of last resort. That trend 
continues to seriously undermine the legitimacy of the 
Council’s  decisions.  Inasmuch  as  the  Council  acts  on 
behalf of all Member States, it should therefore remain 
accountable to all States on whose behalf it acts.
22/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
That  indeed  is  the  raison  d’être  for  Article  24  of 
the  Charter,  which  obliges  the  Council  to  submit 
annual  reports  to  the  General  Assembly,  where  all 
Member States are represented. However, not only do 
certain  decisions  of  the  Council  not  reflect  the  views 
of  the  United  Nations  general  membership,  in  some 
cases  they  do  not  even  represent  the  genuine  opinion 
of its own membership. In carrying out its duties, the 
Council  must  be  bound  by  the  Charter.  Nevertheless, 
it continues to take on issues that have been assigned 
by the Charter to the purview of other United Nations 
organs. That is an encroachment on the functions and 
powers of those other bodies.
Similarly,  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member 
States have always called on the Council to studiously 
avoid  considering  issues  that  do  not  pose  a  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security.  In  recent  years, 
however,  the  Council  has  placed  such  issues  on  its 
agenda.  Unfortunately,  in  certain  instances  they  have 
been related to internal matters of States, interference 
in  which  is  explicitly  prohibited  by  the  Charter.  That 
is  due  to  a  clear  tendency  to  downgrade  the  Council 
to  the  status  of  a  tool  in  the  toolbox  of  one  or  more 
of  the  Council’s  permanent  members.  On  the  other 
hand,  in  certain  instances,  the  Council  has  failed  to 
address issues of serious concern to international peace 
and  security  and  to  the  general  membership  of  the 
Organization. We should also not forget the instances in 
which the Council has been abused by certain members.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that if we want 
our  world  to  be  governed  by  law  and  not  by  power, 
making  the  Council  and  its  members  accountable 
is  a  must.  Of  course,  that  is  possible  only  through  a 
State-driven  process  involving  comprehensive  and 
meaningful reform of the Security Council.
Ms. Byrne Nason (Ireland): I thank the President 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  scheduling  this  meeting 
on  the  critical,  albeit  difficult,  question  of  Security 
Council reform.
I  am  well  aware  of  the  sensitivity  of  this  issue 
and  of  the  failure  to  make  tangible  progress  despite 
nearly two decades of effort. That does not, however, 
give us an excuse to wash our hands of the process or 
consign  it  to  a  sterile  series  of  ritualistic  exchanges. 
The basic need for Security Council reform grows ever 
more pressing. As Ireland and many other States have 
repeatedly stated, the Council no longer represents the 
composition  of  the  United  Nations.  The  longer  that 
unacceptable position persists, the greater the threat to 
the legitimacy of the Council and its unique and vital 
role in maintaining international peace and security.
For Ireland, the unjust historical underrepresentation 
on the Council of countries from Africa is particularly 
egregious.  We  urgently  need  reform  that  will  ensure 
a fair and equitable African say in Council decisions, 
something that Ireland has consistently supported. The 
reality is that such reform should be for the long term, 
and we see justice in that case on its merits. We also 
remember very clearly from our own membership in the 
Security Council from 2001 to 2002 that while issues 
relating  to  peace  and  security  in  Africa  were  central 
to  the  Council’s  agenda,  African  countries  were  not 
adequately  represented  on  the  Council,  and  we  often 
had to go outside its doors to hear their voices.
Besides  rectifying  Africa’s  underrepresentation, 
we  must  also  ensure  that  the  voices  of  the  most 
vulnerable  are  heard.  That  means  that  small  island 
developing  States,  for  example,  should  play  a  role  in 
the Council that reflects the seriousness of the situation 
they face. Other regions have also made claims that we 
believe deserve a fair hearing, and we look forward to 
discussing them.
Smaller  States,  which  make  up  a  majority  of  the 
United  Nations  membership,  must  have  their  right  to 
serve  on  the  Council  protected.  The  essence  of  the 
United Nations, and of multilateralism, consists of laws 
and  structures  that  provide  equal  protection,  respect 
and guarantees to the large and the small, and promote 
mutual  benefits  in  addressing  common  challenges 
within our shared frameworks.
In  addition  to  the  issue  of  composition,  Security 
Council  reform  should  also  make  the  Council  more 
accountable, democratic and transparent. For example, 
Ireland believes that elected members must play a fully 
equal role in the Council, including having responsibility 
for drafting Council products and shaping all Council 
decisions. We welcome the proactive and effective role 
played in that regard by the 10 elected members in the 
recent period. We also favour greater interaction among 
the Council, the General Assembly and critical bodies 
such as the Peacebuilding Commission, which are well 
placed  in  their  work  to  address  the  great  challenges 
faced by countries experiencing conflict. Ireland is also 
a  strong  supporter  of  transparency,  and  we  welcome 
the  commitment  expressed  by  many  current  Council 
18-39086
23/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
members  to  conducting  the  business  of  the  Council 
clearly in the public eye.
that  it  could  surely  only  have  a  positive  effect  on  the 
functioning of the United Nations more widely.
We believe that the use of the veto is a responsibility, 
not a right. It has frequently been misused, and we favour 
its eventual abolition. In the meantime, we support the 
French-Mexican initiative and that of the Accountability, 
Coherence and Transparency group to prevent the use 
of  the  veto  in  cases  of  mass-atrocity  crimes.  Ireland 
strongly believes that reform should happen now, and 
we want an early move towards text-based negotiations. 
We do not believe that is in any way in conflict with 
the Member-driven approach that has been pursued to 
date. We strongly support building on the outcomes of 
the  recent  intergovernmental  negotiations  processes, 
including the framework document, its annexes and the 
elements of convergence and commonality, which have 
been prepared by successive co-Chairs.
In negotiations, we want to see a successful outcome 
and  are  willing  to  consider  any  model  capable  of 
commanding sufficient consensus. While creating new 
permanent seats has not been our preferred model in the 
past, we would agree if that approach enjoyed sufficient 
support. Sticking rigidly to positions for 20 years has 
clearly not achieved success for any of us. We therefore 
appeal to all countries that support reform to consider 
how such a change can be achieved. Flexibility could 
now  be  combined,  for  example,  with  a  commitment 
to  looking  again  at  the  structure  of  the  Council  after 
a  fixed  period.  The  purpose  of  such  a  review  would 
be  to  assess  whether  the  new  arrangements  are  fair, 
equitable and reflective of the continuing evolution of 
the global order.
My country, Ireland, might be said to have a vested 
interest.  We  aspire  to  membership  of  the  Security 
Council for the 2021-2022 term. We have been critical 
of  the  Council  and  its  composition  and  operation, 
because  it  matters  to  us  and  the  United  Nations. 
Today, more than ever, the Council holds much of the 
fate of the multilateral system in its hands. The wider 
multilateral system takes its lead from the example set 
by  the  Council.  We  want  to  see  the  anachronisms  of 
representation set aside so that the Council can better 
deal  with  the  urgent  tasks  it  has  been  mandated  to 
perform. Ireland’s Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign 
Minister  addressed  that  issue  during  the  recent  open 
debate  (see  A/73/PV.13).  He  said  that  he  strongly 
believes  that  reform  of  the  Council  would  inevitably 
lead to a greater sense of participation, responsibility 
and  ownership  among  United  Nations  Members,  and 
At this time, when multilateralism itself is facing 
stiff  challenges,  there  is  an  extra  responsibility  for 
States that strongly value the United Nations to see how 
they  can  contribute  to  such  an  important  reform.  My 
country, Ireland, will certainly approach the next set of 
negotiations on Security Council reform with an open 
mind and a constructive spirit. We are used to being, 
and  are  willing  to  be,  bridge  builders  and  a  voice  for 
fair and equitable reform of the Security Council.
Mr. Valenzuela Marzo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  Permanent  Representative  of  Italy  has  already 
presented  the  position  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus 
group  to  this  annual  debate  (see  A/73/PV.36).  The 
Spanish  delegation  joins  her  in  that  position,  as  we 
share  the  conviction  that  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  plays  an 
in  achieving 
effective multilateralism.
important 
role 
I  join  previous  speakers  in  welcoming  the  new 
co-Chairs, the Permanent Representatives of the United 
Arab  Emirates  and  Luxembourg,  and  expressing 
Spain’s support for their work during the forthcoming 
intergovernmental negotiations during this session.
I would like to share with the Assembly our thoughts 
as to why it is crucial to provide the Security Council 
with a new dynamism for the sake of the United Nations 
reform process and for the legitimacy and effectiveness 
of multilateralism.
The  current  international  environment,  as  we 
all  know,  is  very  different  from  that  of  the  post-war 
years.  The  need  to  ensure  peace  in  a  world  divided 
into blocs was decisive in enshrining the functions and 
composition of the Security Council in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  The  success  of  one  of  its  major 
tasks,  decolonization,  completely  changed  the  size  of 
the  membership  and  the  multilateral  dynamics  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  are  now  facing  the  challenges  of 
the twenty-first century and the need to provide a new 
sense  of  legitimacy  through  which  all  Members  and 
regional groups of the General Assembly feel they are 
represented  on  the  Security  Council.  That  same  new 
configuration  must  ensure  the  functionality  required 
to  address  the  challenges  associated  with  climate 
change, migratory flows, the defence of human rights, 
gender equality and more equitable and less disparate 
development, while at the same time maintaining and 
re-establishing peace as a common good.
24/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
The  Uniting  for  Consensus  proposal  seeks  to 
integrate all of the aspirations of the various regional 
groups to contribute to and play a decisive role in the 
joint  solutions  entailed  in  our  cross-cutting  twenty-
first-century  agenda.  We  are  not  merely  calling  for 
the addition of one more group but rather for seeking 
out  a  coherent  consensus  framework  as  the  basis  for 
negotiations leading towards the reform of the Security 
Council.  The  proposal  has  been  circulating  for  more 
than  a  decade.  Yet  current  circumstances  urgently 
demand  a  restoration  of  the  multilateral  procedures 
in  the  face  of  new  challenges,  procedures  that  do  not 
consist in the abstract idea of conceiving a new balance 
of power but in forging an integrated method for jointly 
identifying  and  solving  issues  on  the  shared  agenda 
of humankind.
is 
The  Security  Council 
the  cornerstone  of 
multilateralism,  United  Nations  reform  and  collective 
intervention  for  the  common  good.  We  are  seeking 
a  more  democratic,  representative  and  transparent 
Council, with a higher level of effectiveness, a Council 
that  will  ultimately  be  more  representative  and 
legitimate  and  better  prepared  to  confront  the  global 
challenges  facing  us  in  the  twenty-first  century.  Our 
position, and that of the Uniting for Consensus group, 
seeks  to  reach  an  agreement  on  what  we  all  mean  by 
a more democratic, transparent, effective, accountable 
and representative Council. The change in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  demands  a  consensus  as  broad 
as  the  one  that  made  its  adoption  possible,  while 
ensuring  that  all  Member  States,  in  accordance  with 
their legitimate interests and with a view towards the 
common good, are called on to contribute to addressing 
the challenges we face.
Our position has evolved. It is flexible and balanced 
at  the  same  time.  It  is  based  on  the  conviction  that 
participating in the Security Council is not a privilege 
but a service to the international community. We believe 
that  all  peace-loving  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
have the right and even the obligation to provide that 
service  to  our  community  by  virtue  of  their  presence 
on the Council. We are convinced that the best way to 
strengthen  multilateralism,  to  which  we  aspire,  and 
must  aspire,  closely  resembles  the  model  for  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  proposed  by  the  United  for 
Consensus  group.  In  that  light,  I  therefore  encourage 
everyone to consider the two charts that accompanied 
the statement delivered by the Ambassador of Italy on 
behalf of our group (see A/73/PV.36). It will be noted 
that that proposal is not merely about Security Council 
reform but is part of a broader United Nations reform 
proposal,  which  we  believe  will  be  instrumental  in 
strengthening  confidence  in  the  international  system 
and in the ability of Member States to adapt to the new 
challenges the Organization faces today.
Mr.  Auväärt  (Estonia):  We  are  all  convinced 
that  the  United  Nations  has  to  be  fit  for  purpose  and 
that the Security Council reform should help to make 
the  United  Nations  stronger  and  more  credible.  The 
Security  Council  needs  the  capacity  and  readiness  to 
adequately respond to all of the world’s challenges and 
live  up  to  its  primary  responsibility  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  Unfortunately,  this 
has not always been the case. I would like to thank the 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
Arab  Emirates  for  their  hard  work  in  leading  the 
intergovernmental negotiations at the previous session 
of the General Assembly.
With  respect  to  the  most  important  issues  for 
Estonia  in  the  Security  Council  reform  process,  we 
have had to witness how, on numerous occasions, some 
members  of  the  Council  have  used  or  threatened  to 
use the veto, leaving the Council paralysed and unable 
to  react  to  situations  that  most  need  action.  Estonia 
will  continue  to  highlight  its  position  that  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  should  voluntarily 
and collectively commit to refraining from using their 
veto power to block Council action aimed at preventing 
or ending situations involving mass atrocity crimes.
As a member of the Accountability, Coherence and 
Transparency  group,  Estonia  also  supports  the  code 
of  conduct  calling  on  all  members  of  the  Council  to 
refrain  from  voting  against  credible  Security  Council 
resolutions  aimed  at  preventing  or  ending  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  or  war  crimes.  We  welcome 
the  wide-ranging  support  that  117  Member  States 
have  expressed  for  the  code  of  conduct.  Hopefully, 
more  countries  will  be  lending  their  support  to  it  in 
the  immediate  future.  Estonia  has  also  reiterated  its 
support for the initiative led by France and Mexico on 
the use of the veto. We believe that those two initiatives 
are complementary and share a common goal.
I  also  want  to  highlight  another  issue  that  is 
important to Estonia with respect to the expansion of 
the  Security  Council.  The  United  Nations  must  adapt 
to  the  realities  of  today.  Estonia  believes  that  every 
country, small or large, should have the opportunity to 
18-39086
25/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
be represented on the Council, but a stronger voice for 
small nations, especially small island developing States, 
is absolutely vital. In addition, we fully empathize with 
the  Common  African  Position,  which  would  increase 
the  representativeness  and  legitimacy  of  the  United 
Nations as a whole and is the only way to rectify the 
historical  injustice  endured  by  the  African  continent 
with regard to the composition of the Security Council.
When  considering  the  relevance  of  the  work 
of  the  Security  Council,  we  should  reflect  on  the 
agendas and substantial matters discussed in Security 
Council  meetings.  The  notion  of  peace  and  security 
is  expanding.  There  are  new  challenges  that  could 
be  severe  obstacles  to  global  peace  and  security  and 
should  therefore  be  debated  in  the  Security  Council. 
For example, climate change and cybersecurity are two 
challenges  of  growing  importance  and  urgency  that 
clearly need to be addressed.
Finally,  I  want  to  emphasize  that  small  steps 
in  improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council can have a much wider positive effect. Estonia 
would  like  to  see  greater  accountability,  coherence 
and  transparency  in  the  Council’s  activities  through 
increased  inclusiveness  and  targeted  action.  These 
principles  are  key  to  governing  our  State.  We  apply 
them conscientiously, as we believe they will make our 
governance  more  effective  and  better  understood  by 
our people. We believe that the same principles would 
have a larger effect at the regional or global level and 
should  therefore  be  cherished  and  used  by  different 
international  organizations, 
the  United 
Nations. The Security Council, as a body representing 
all of the States Members of the United Nations, could 
also benefit from the application of these principles.
including 
to  engaging  constructively 
In conclusion, I would like to reconfirm Estonia’s 
commitment 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  I  would  also  like  to 
congratulate the newly appointed Chairs, the Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Luxembourg, and confirm our full support to them.
in 
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
President of the General Assembly for convening this 
important meeting on the weighty question of Security 
Council reform.
The  Congolese  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Sierra  Leone,  Coordinator  of  the  African  Union 
Committee of Ten Heads of State and Government, on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/73/PV.36), 
and we would like to take this opportunity to make a 
few additional remarks in our national capacity.
First  of  all,  I  want  to  thank  all  of  the  facilitators 
of 
the  successive 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  and  acknowledge  their 
commitment  to  and  enthusiasm  for  moving  forward 
with the process, which, over the nine years since it was 
launched in February 2009, has shown itself to be more 
complex than we might have thought. I would also like 
to congratulate the incoming Chairs who will continue 
the endeavour.
What  are  we  really  talking  about  here?  The  very 
title  of  agenda  item  124  —  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Security  Council  —  delves  into  the  issue  and  allows 
for a straightforward understanding of Council reform. 
The  current  representation  on  the  Security  Council 
is  not  equitable.  We  must  establish  a  balance.  The 
Council’s  membership  must  be  increased,  because  its 
current composition is not representative of today’s 193 
States Members of the United Nations.
What are the related issues? Decision 62/557, which 
remains  the  basis  for  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
as  well  as  the  five  key  elements  of  reform  that  the 
decision  outlined,  represents  the  guiding  principles 
for the negotiations established by the decision. It also 
delineates and sheds further light on the challenges and 
issues that we face.
The  necessary  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is 
within  the  purview  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  this 
regard,  I  simply  want  to  highlight  the  Assembly’s 
successive  decisions 
informal 
negotiations from one session to the next. The steadfast 
statements of support for the process are also proof of 
that shared view.
to  continue 
the 
What  plans  are  in  place  for  2019?  In  about  two 
months,  the  informal  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council  will  mark 
10  years  of  its  existence.  What  assessments  can  be 
made  on  that  decade  of  discussion  on  reform  of  the 
body  that  is  quite  rightly  considered  the  cornerstone 
of the United Nations? Looking beyond the framework 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  that  began  in 
February 2009, many of us would add that the debate 
on  reform  of  the  most  powerful  body  of  the  United 
26/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
Nations  has  ultimately  consumed  the  energy  of  more 
than  a  generation  of  diplomats.  Indeed,  if  we  refer  to 
past reform  initiatives,  dating  back  to  the  1960s,  and 
even including some of the efforts made in the 1990s, 
we  may  be  tempted  to  think,  and  understandably  so, 
that since that time, the negotiation process has yet to 
produce any result that could be viewed as a noticeably 
positive development.
The  stakes  are  high,  given  that  the  Security 
Council  can  make  decisions  that  Member  States  are 
obliged  to  enforce,  and  that  the  Charter  grants  it  the 
primary  responsibility  of  maintaining  international 
peace and security. This shows the importance of our 
leaders’  vision  from  the  2005  World  Summit,  which 
invited us to make progress so as to bring about a more 
representative,  democratic,  effective  and  transparent 
Security Council in order to strengthen the legitimacy 
of its decisions.
We can all recognize that the world has changed and 
that we face new geopolitical challenges that have led to 
the emergence of new forces on the international scene. 
Today more than ever, at a time when multilateralism 
is  under  threat,  we  reaffirm  our  faith  in  the  United 
Nations, which we hope will become more transparent, 
dynamic and democratic. It was not intended that the 
United  Nations  be  frozen  in  time.  As  President  John 
Kennedy  so  aptly  pointed  out  in  his  address  to  the 
General Assembly from this rostrum,
“The  United  Nations  cannot  survive  as  a  static 
Organization. Its obligations are increasing as well 
as its size. Its Charter must be changed as well as 
its  customs.  The  authors  of  that  Charter  did  not 
intend that it be frozen in perpetuity” (A/PV.1209, 
para. 74).
Today, the United Nations is committed to reforms 
that  can  make  it  a  more  effective  instrument  for 
promoting  peace,  development  and  human  rights.  In 
this  dynamic,  the  Congo  believes  that  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  is  possible  and  even  urgent.  For  the 
Congo,  the  geographical  representation  of  Africa  on 
the Security Council is a matter of justice, equity and 
regional  balance  within  the  Council,  in  accordance 
with the principles, objectives and ideals of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
The  document  entitled  “Revised  elements  of 
commonality  and  issues  for  further  consideration”, 
distributed on 14 June by the President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, ranks the crucial 
points  with  regard  to  increasing  the  size  of  Council, 
its  geographical  representation  and  the  power  to  veto 
among several items to be further considered (see A/72/
PV.104). We can clearly see the interconnected nature 
of  all  of  the  issues  being  negotiated  in  the  context  of 
Security Council reform.
As we all know, the enlargement of the Council is 
linked to the issue of increasing the number of members 
of  the  Council  in  both  categories  of  membership.  If 
the  principle  of  increasing  the  number  of  Council 
members  is  unanimously  agreed  on, my  delegation 
must conclude that opting to expand both categories of 
its membership would be the best way to reflect equity, 
representativeness and regional balance. In this regard, 
the  Congo  supports  assigning  two  members  in  the 
permanent category and an additional two members in 
the non-permanent category to Africa.
Africa’s proper representation on the Council would 
merely redress the historical injustice to which Africa 
has  always  been  subjected.  It  is  barely  conceivable 
that an Africa of some 1.2 billion souls, including 54 
States Members of the Organization and with estimates 
projecting  that  its  population  will  double  by  2050,  is 
underrepresented at this high level of decision-making. 
We  should  also  not  forget  that  in  the  current  context, 
the majority of Council decisions are relevant to Africa.
The  Congo  welcomes  the  growing  support  and 
backing from several groups of States and stakeholder 
groups  for  ensuring  that  Africa  is  represented  in 
the  permanent  membership.  But  the  question  of  the 
veto,  which  is  closely  tied  to  the  status  of  permanent 
membership on the Council, remains one of the greatest 
challenges  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations. 
However,  if  we  accept  Africa’s  representation  with 
permanent  membership 
the 
existing  injustice, failing  to  recognize  the  privileges 
that come with that status, including the power of the 
veto,  would  merely  continue  the  injustice  to  which  it 
has been subjected. For the principle of equality to be 
meaningfully implemented, it would be wise to extend 
the  veto  privilege  to  all  States  designated  permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council.  There  can  be  no 
other  option,  unless  we  agree  to  outright  abolition  of 
the veto for all permanent members of the Council, as 
set forth in the Common African Position outlined in 
the Ezulwini Consensus.
to  remedy 
the 
in  order 
The  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
18-39086
27/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
and  other  matters  related  to  the  Security  Council  is 
so  important  that  it  deserves  the  sustained  attention 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  principal  organ  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  order  to  make  the  United  Nations 
more representative, and therefore truly universal and 
democratic, and capable of leading the reform process 
towards concrete results within a consensual framework.
Mr.  Allen  (United  Kingdom):  I  want  to  express 
my  gratitude  and  that  of  my  country  to  Ambassadors 
Nusseibeh  and  Imnadze  for  their  excellent  leadership 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  during 
this  year.  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador 
Nusseibeh on her reappointment and Ambassador Braun 
on his appointment as Chairs for the upcoming session.
It is increasingly clear that the appetite for reform of 
the Security Council is growing among States Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  That  is  with  good  reason. 
The  world  has  changed,  but  the  Security  Council’s 
composition has not responded to that change. It is only 
right  and  fair  that  the  world’s  principal  organ  for  the 
maintenance of peace and security represents the world 
it seeks to protect.
The  United  Kingdom  continues  to  be  a  long-
standing and firm supporter of Security Council reform. 
That reform must consider the size of the Council, its 
representativeness, the way the Council functions and 
its working methods. We support efforts to modernize 
the Security Council’s working practices and welcome 
last  year’s  agreement  on  a  new  note  by  the  President 
of  the  Security  Council  on  the  subject  (S/2017/507). 
Our priority is now to implement the provisions of the 
note with the aim of ensuring that the Council conducts 
its  business  in  an  efficient,  inclusive  and  transparent 
manner, which includes focusing the Council’s time on 
the  most  important  issues  of  international  peace  and 
security, and not yesterday’s conflicts. We look forward 
to  working  on  those  issues  in  the  Informal  Working 
Group  on  Documentation  and  Other  Procedural 
Matters, under the chairmanship of Kuwait.
When  we  consider  Security  Council  reform,  we 
must  always  ensure  that  the  Council’s  effectiveness 
is  not  compromised.  Too  great  an  increase  in  size 
risks  a  cumbersome  and  slow  decision-making 
process, undermining the Council’s ability to respond 
appropriately  and  quickly  to  issues  of  international 
peace  and  security.  With  the  enormous  and  grave 
challenges  before  us,  that  is  a  risk  we  simply  cannot 
afford to take.
By  the  same  token,  we  cannot  allow  the  issue  of 
the veto to slow our progress on the expansion of the 
Council.  The  United  Kingdom  is  proud  not  to  have 
vetoed  a  resolution  since  1989,  and  we  would  only 
do  so  in  the  most  exceptional  circumstances.  We  are 
signatories to the code of conduct of the Accountability, 
Coherence  and  Transparency  group  and  committed 
to  never  voting  against  a  credible  draft  resolution  on 
preventing or ending a mass atrocity, and we encourage 
all permanent and non-permanent members to join us 
in  supporting  this  initiative.  Too  often  we  have  seen 
others wield their veto through narrow self-interest, to 
the significant detriment of the Council’s reputation and 
indeed  its  responsibility  to  those  who  so  desperately 
need our help.
in 
For  those  reasons,  we  believe  that  a  modest 
expansion 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories, an increase that balances representation with 
effectiveness,  is  the  approach  we  should  collectively 
pursue. Member States must work together in a flexible 
and  creative  manner  to  find  areas  of  convergence  so 
that we can finally make progress on this issue.
Members  will  be  aware  of  our  support  for 
permanent seats for Brazil, Germany, India and Japan, 
alongside  permanent  African  representation,  in  order 
to  better  reflect  the  realities  of  the  world  we  face 
today.  That  support  is  steadfast,  and  I  look  forward 
to  working  through  all  available  avenues  to  reach  the 
more representative and effective Council that we seek.
Mr.  Mero  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  for  convening  today’s  plenary 
meeting on the question of equitable representation on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other related matters.
My  country  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Sierra  Leone,  who  spoke  on 
behalf of the Group of African States (see A/73/PV.36).
In  my  capacity  as  the  representative  of  Tanzania, 
I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  at  the  seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly on their stewardship of 
the process and would like to add that Tanzania stands 
ready to work with the new Chairs announced today.
Like  many  others,  my  delegation  is  concerned 
about  the  slow  pace  of  the  process.  Africa,  which  is 
the  only  continent  underrepresented  on  the  Security 
28/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
Council, continues to suffer. It should be underscored 
that  a  majority  of  the  Security  Council  mandate  has 
been  exercised  in  African  countries  that  have  come 
of  age  and  taken  up  responsibilities  contributing  to 
peacekeeping on their own continent and beyond. We 
have been participating in mediation and peacekeeping 
operations, which have come at a cost to Tanzania and 
many other African countries in the form of losses of 
peacekeepers they have contributed. The political will 
behind peacekeeping and security is of intangible value 
and should be treasured.
The Common African Position, as set forth in the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration, is well 
known to the Assembly. We demand no less than two 
permanent seats with all the prerogatives and privileges 
of permanent membership, including the right of veto, 
and  five  non-permanent  seats.  Although  Africa  is 
opposed to the veto in principle, we are of the view that 
as long as it exists and as a matter of common justice, it 
should be made available to all permanent members of 
the Security Council. My delegation is also concerned 
about the note of the Chairs entitled “Revised elements 
of commonality and issues for further consideration”, 
which was circulated on 14 June by the President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session. It was 
a welcome step in identifying areas of commonalities 
around which Member States can unite for consensus-
building.  However,  the  note  did  not  adequately  or 
accurately reflect the Common African Position.
In  conclusion,  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania 
is looking forward to a pivot in the right direction on 
that matter when consideration of the Security Council 
reform  process  is  resumed,  at  which  time  we  believe 
that  we  will  all  give  the  Common  African  Position 
wserious attention.
Ms. Jáquez Huacuja (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
We  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  for 
convening today’s plenary meeting, as well as for the 
appointment of the new Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations, who count on the support of my delegation 
for their work on this item of great importance for my 
country, but above all also crucial for the United Nations.
Mexico  endorses  the  statement  by  Ambassador 
Maria Angela Zappia of Italy on behalf of the Uniting 
for Consensus group (see A/73/PV.36), and I would like 
to add the following points in my national capacity.
We need the new session of the intergovernmental 
negotiations to continue addressing pending issues with 
the aim of finding new convergences. This process will 
move forward to the extent that we can find common 
ground and concentrate on what unites us, on the basis 
of agreed principles. In other words, the process should 
not  be  restricted  to  compiling  proposals,  but  should 
also  extend  to  analysing  and  earmarking  those  that 
can really generate consensus and results that benefit 
the entire membership and global interests rather than 
forcing artificial convergences.
Security  Council  reform  must  be  guided  by  the 
common objectives identified in the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  —  the  efficiency,  transparency, 
representativeness and democratization of the Council. 
At the same time, the enlargement of the Council in the 
category  of  non-permanent  members,  which  from  the 
perspective  of  Mexico  and  the  Uniting  for  Consensus 
group  is  the  only  basis  for  the  reform  that  can  result 
in an efficient and democratic reformed Council, must 
be  based  on  the  principle  of  equitable  geographical 
distribution.  Any  modification  to  the  composition 
of  the  Council  must  therefore  also  reflect  the  current 
membership of the Organization, enabling an adequate 
representation  of  the  five  different  regional  groups 
on the basis of equitable geographical distribution, as 
established in Article 23 of the Charter of the United 
Nations.  The  size  of  the  enlarged  Council  will  be 
decisive  in  restoring  this  balance  while  preserving 
its efficiency.
speak 
of 
cannot 
However,  we 
adequate 
representation  based  on  equitable  geographical 
distribution  without  considering  the  direct  link  that 
the  issue  has  with  the  discussions  on  the  dimension 
of the enlarged Council, through which the number of 
additional  seats  to  be  granted  to  each  regional  group 
will  be  determined.  Transparency  and  effectiveness 
must  also  be  primary  objectives  of  Security  Council 
reform. Mexico agrees that the Council should be more 
transparent  and  accessible  to  non-member  States,  so 
that  there  is  better  accountability  and  more  effective 
decision-making.
The Security Council is the organ that guarantees 
international  peace  and  security.  However,  the  scope 
of  its  working  methods  and  the  control  exercised  by 
permanent  members  over  certain  agenda  items  close 
to their national interests have meant that the Council 
cannot be effective in resolving conflicts that threaten 
international peace and security and affect its image and 
legitimacy.  The  Council  must  therefore  act  promptly 
18-39086
29/31
A/73/PV.37 
20/11/2018
and transparently in the face of the international crises 
that require its attention.
While  in  recent  years  the  Security  Council  has 
improved in the area of transparency and inclusiveness, 
this has been largely due to the impetus of non-elected 
members. We are among a large majority of States that 
oppose  the  use  of  the  so-called  veto  and  call  for  its 
abolition or voluntary restriction, particularly in cases 
of  mass  atrocities.  Most  Member  States,  including 
Mexico, agree that enlarging the Council and reforming 
its  working  methods  will  substantially  improve  the 
effectiveness of the body by recalibrating the existing 
balance of power. That will also make it possible to give 
more weight to the positions of non-permanent members 
and  make  progress  on  issues  that  have  traditionally 
paralysed the Council’s action.
that 
new 
We 
reiterate 
The  relationship  between  the  Security  Council 
and the General Assembly must be approached from a 
perspective of accountability and transparency. In order 
to  achieve  greater  accountability  in  the  Council,  the 
periodic election of all new members of the Council by 
the General Assembly should therefore be maintained.
intergovernmental 
negotiations  must  be  conducted  based  on 
the 
principles  of  transparency,  impartiality,  objectivity 
and  inclusiveness.  They  must  take  up  the  lessons 
learned in past sessions as well as the mistakes made 
in  the  process,  and  we  invite  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  to  consider  the  United  for  Consensus 
proposal  as  a  serious  attempt  to  advance  real  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  The  United  for  Consensus 
proposal responds to the principles set forth in decision 
62/557, since it was formulated in good faith and is a 
compromise designed to achieve a more representative, 
transparent,  democratic,  effective  and  accountable 
Security Council.
Our proposal is inclusive because it seeks to give 
opportunities  to  all  Member  States  and  all  regions, 
particularly  those  underrepresented  in  the  current 
configuration of the Security Council, such as Africa. 
The  Uniting  for  Consensus  proposal  addresses  the 
ambitions  of  some  States  that  legitimately  desire  
greater 
the  Security  Council. 
Mexico  recognizes  the  interest  expressed  by  all  the 
negotiating groups in continuing the intergovernmental 
negotiations. We therefore urge all Members to continue 
the work of the negotiations, coordinate their individual 
interests  and  pursue  the  good  of  the  Organization  in 
responsibility 
in 
order  to  garner  the  broadest  possible  support  for  a 
viable proposal for an enlarged Security Council in line 
with the realities of the twenty-first century and based 
on multilateralism.
Mr.  Cho  Tae-yul  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  thank 
the  President  for  convening  today’s  annual  debate  on 
Security Council reform.
My delegation warmly welcomes the appointment 
of  Ambassador  Christian  Braun  of  Luxembourg  as 
co-Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We 
also  extend  our  congratulations  to  Ambassador  Lana 
Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates as she continues 
in  her  role  as  co-Chair.  I  have  every  confidence  in 
their  leadership  and  ability  to  facilitate  this  difficult 
process under the twin guiding spirits of transparency 
and fairness.
At the outset, my delegation aligns itself with the 
statement  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Italy 
on  behalf  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group  (see 
A/73/PV.36).  I  will  now  make  some  comments  in  my 
national capacity.
the  role  of 
the  Security  Council 
The  Republic  of  Korea  has  long  believed  that 
Security  Council  reform  is  critical  to  the  Council’s 
effective  functioning  and  the  future  of  the  United 
Nations. This issue takes on even greater urgency today. 
Indeed, as we collectively face mounting international 
challenges, 
is 
increasingly  vital  in  responding  to  these  changing 
realities.  However,  in  order  to  fulfil  its  primary 
responsibility  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security and to meet the challenges of tomorrow as well 
as today, the Council must be transformed into a more 
equitable,  representative  and  efficient  entity.  Further, 
as  Secretary-General  Guterres 
leading  United 
Nations  reform  in  such  areas  as  peace  and  security, 
development  and  management,  it  is  essential  for  the 
Security Council to work in lockstep with the ongoing 
reform efforts. The stakes are too high for the Council 
to  remain  static  as  the  world  and  the  United  Nations 
continue to change.
is 
The  real  need  for  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
does  not  stem  from  our  respective  capitals.  Rather, 
it  is  the  people  on  the  streets  in  Palestine  and  in  the 
neighbourhoods of Syria who truly yearn for a reformed 
Security Council. We owe it to them to deliver on what 
the Charter of the United Nations promises, namely, to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war.
30/31 
18-39086
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.37
Today I would like to propose that we all sit back for 
a moment to reflect, logically and reasonably, on what 
we  now  know  and  what  will  ensure  that  the  Council 
is  reformed  in  the  right  way.  I  ask  representatives  to 
momentarily ponder where we stand today, not through 
the prism of any national or group interests, but through 
the objective prism of someone who genuinely cares for 
the future of the world.
We  all  know  that  expanding  the  Council  to  a 
membership  larger  than  the  mid-20s  will  seriously 
affect  its  effectiveness.  We  all  know  that  outside  the 
permanent  five  there  exist  188  Member  States,  and 
possibly  even  more  in  the  future,  all  of  which  aspire 
and deserve to serve on the Council. We all know that 
those 188 countries have to compete strenuously with 
one  another  and  invest  massive  political  capital  over 
many  years  to  win  election  onto  the  Council.  We  all 
know that non-permanent members are democratically 
elected.  We  all  know  that  a  mere  single  term  of  two 
years  is  just  not  enough  for  many  countries  to  build 
institutional  memory,  and  sometimes  it  is  hard  in  the 
beginning, or even in the first year, to get up to speed 
with all of the critical issues.
For  example,  we  all  know  that  adding  four  seats 
for the Group of Four, two from Africa, one from the 
Arab  countries  and  one  from  Latin  America  would 
at  a  minimum  bring  us  to  13  permanent  Council 
members,  which  means  that  the  maximum  number  of 
additional  seats  allocated  for  the  rest  of  us  would  be 
only  two  or  three.  We  all  know  that  adding  only  two 
or  three  seats  to  the  10  existing  non-permanent  seats 
for 180 countries — or more, in future — is not only 
unfair but unsustainable. We all know that if we keep 
the  current  ratio  of  one  to  two  between  permanent 
and non-permanent seats, it will result in gridlock, in 
a Council composed of 39 members with 13 members 
with veto power, which can never function effectively 
or equitably.
We all know that the world is not static, and that the 
large and contributing members of today will be joined 
by other large and contributing countries of tomorrow. 
And all of us know that we have a clear mandate to reform 
the Council following the five principles — democracy, 
representativeness,  transparency,  accountability  and 
effectiveness — that were laid down by our Heads of 
States and Governments in 2005.
seats 
I  believe  that  we  all  recognize,  if  not  publicly, 
that the Uniting for Consensus proposal of increasing 
non-permanent 
favouring  underrepresented 
regions  of  the  world  without  expanding  the  veto  best 
reflects the broad convergences among Member States. 
It  will  also  help  achieve  a  reform  of  the  Council  that 
is  not  only  anchored  by  the  five  principles  we  have 
all  committed  to,  but  is  also  the  most  viable  formula 
and one that would enjoy the widest possible support. 
This  proposal  would  add  11  more  non-permanent 
members, all of which would be democratically elected, 
fully  represented  by  each  group  based  on  equitable 
geography and held accountable periodically based on 
their contributions in the Council. That in turn would 
ensure that the Council functioned in a more effective 
and  transparent  manner,  with  a  minimum  number  of 
vetoes and the right size of membership. Furthermore, 
many of us will be able to secure our seats long enough 
to build our institutional memory and serve longer if we 
perform well as Council members.
We  are  all  gathered  here  today  fully  aware  of 
the  fact  that  the  Council  must  be  reformed  if  it  is  to 
continue to fulfil its mandate and evolve with changing 
realities. The Republic of Korea, alongside the Uniting 
for  Consensus  group,  will  continue  its  endeavours 
to  reform  the  Council  by  balancing  the  ideals  of  the 
founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  with  the  new 
challenges we face today.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 124.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
18-39086
31/31
