United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
18th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 10 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 14, 119, 125 (a) and (b) and 126
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/184)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/292)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Draft resolution (A/73/L.2)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
(a) Strengthening of the United Nations system
(b) Central role of the United Nations system in 
global governance
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/356)
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/366)
Mr.  El  Ashmawy  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Group of 77 (G-77) and China.
At the outset, allow me to commend the successful 
convening  of  the  third  high-level  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs),  which  was  held 
on  27  September.  The  meeting  garnered  high-level 
participation  and  resulted  in  the  endorsement  of  a 
comprehensive  draft  political  declaration  (A/73/L.2)
that  encompasses  actions  expected  at  the  national 
and  international  levels.  The  meeting  also  included 
a  rich  debate  among  a  variety  of  stakeholders  on 
avenues  to  better  prevent,  control,  diagnose  and  treat 
NCDs.  Of  course,  the  final  objective  is  to  achieve 
relevant goals and targets set out the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
I  would  like  to  express  the  appreciation  of  the 
Group  to  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Uruguay 
and Italy and their staff for facilitating the process of 
consultations  on  NCDs,  starting  from  the  scope  and 
modalities phase to the negotiations of the draft political 
declaration  itself.  The  negotiations  were  not  easy,  but 
we should all be proud of our strong commitments in 
the final text.
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  you, 
Madam  President,  along  with  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  for 
your  leadership  in  convening  a  successful  high-level 
meeting,  including  the  very  informative  interactive 
civil society hearings held on 5 July.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  congratulate  ourselves 
and  our  fellow  colleagues  on  the  formal  adoption  of 
the draft political declaration by the General Assembly 
today  —  in  a  few  moments,  hopefully.  I  would  like 
to  stress  the  priorities  raised  in  the  G-77  and  China 
statement delivered the day of the high-level meeting. It 
is now time for all of us to deliver the actions necessary 
to prevent and control NCDs.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-31253 (E)
*1831253*

A/73/PV.18 
10/10/2018
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr.  Parenti  (European  Union):  I  am  honoured 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  its 
member States.
On  27  September  at  the  third  high-level  meeting 
of the General Assembly on the prevention and control 
of  non-communicable  diseases,  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  renewed  their  previous  commitment  to 
stimulate  further  action  to  prevent  and  manage  those 
diseases.  The  draft  political  declaration  (A/73/L.2) 
that emerged from the high-level meeting is a concise 
and  action-oriented  document 
that  calls  for  an 
accelerated  response.  We  thank  the  co-facilitators, 
the representatives of Italy and Uruguay, for their able 
leadership in the negotiations.
The  European  Union  is  pleased  with  the  draft 
political  declaration.  We  fully  agree  that  more  and 
faster progress is needed in order to reach the agreed 
goals. It is high time to act. We now need to pool all of 
our efforts for the implementation of the actions set out 
in that document. We are of course ready to do so. Let 
me give members of the Assembly some examples.
The eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the World Health Organization Framework Convention 
on  Tobacco  Control  took  a  key  decision  last  week  to 
advance  work  in  respect  to  novel  tobacco  products, 
cross-border  advertising  and  other  important  issues. 
The  European  Union  is  proud  to  have  substantially 
contributed to that effort.
At  the  European  level,  we  work  closely  with  our 
member  States,  learning  from  each  other,  exchanging 
positive  experiences  and  further  implementing  best 
practices.  We  recently  established  a  Steering  Group 
on  Health  Promotion,  Disease  Prevention  and  the 
Management  of  Non-Communicable  Diseases 
to 
provide  guidance  and  identify  best  practices  that  can 
be piloted and scaled up. For example, the Swedish best 
practice  on  general  practitioners  prescribing  physical 
activity  and 
the  Italian  cardiovascular  screening 
programme Cardio 50 will be shared with other member 
States  next  year.  I  can  also  assure  the  Assembly  that 
the  European  Union  is  fully  committed  to  realizing 
target 3.4 of the Sustainable Development Goals and to 
reducing premature mortality from non-communicable 
diseases. 
Nevertheless,  the  high-level  meeting  confirmed 
that we have to do more, and we have to do it quickly. 
Non-communicable diseases are a global concern and 
are exacerbated by poverty. We see time and again that 
non-communicable diseases are associated with health 
inequalities. We trust that this third high-level meeting 
on non-communicable diseases and the resulting draft 
political declaration that we are about to adopt today can 
create further momentum. Let us grasp this opportunity, 
redouble  our  efforts  to  tackle  the  global  challenge  of 
non-communicable diseases and epidemics and further 
invest  in  more  effective  health  promotion,  prevention 
and  management  of  non-communicable  diseases.  We 
can expect high human and economic returns.
Mr. Rzheussky (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 
United  Nations  plays,  and  will  continue  to  play,  its 
part as an important tool for multilateral international 
cooperation,  because  no  other  international  body  has 
such  multifaceted  experiences,  competencies  and 
coordinating potential for accomplishing global tasks. 
For the United Nations to serve humankind as effectively 
as  possible,  we  must  strengthen  the  Organization, 
improve our multilateral dialogue and establish a rules-
based international order that is acceptable to all.
In  accordance  with 
the  Secretary-General’s 
initiative,  the  United  Nations  is  currently  undergoing 
the largest-scale reform in its history, aimed at seeking 
innovative ideas and making its response to challenges 
and  threats  more  nimble.  While  we  appreciate  the 
Secretary-General’s reforms of its development system, 
the  United  Nations  must  not  be  associated  only  with 
pen-pushing  by  civil  servants  at  Headquarters  but 
must be understood and called for by ordinary people. 
We are therefore eagerly awaiting the launch of a new 
generation  of  United  Nations  country  teams,  and  we 
hope that the new status of Resident Coordinators will 
strengthen States’ capacity to achieve the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) at home. 
Achieving 
the  SDGs  also  require  supporting 
national  efforts  by  ensuring  favourable  international 
economic conditions. In that regard, it will be essential 
to  strengthen  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to 
establish  reliable  partnerships  with  international  and 
regional economic and financial institutions, in order to 
enhance coordination and agreements that will ensure 
that  our  global  economic  regulatory  mechanisms 
encourage the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
2/9 
18-31253
10/10/2018 
A/73/PV.18
interim  results  of 
The  United  Nations  administrative  system  is  an 
important element in the business of strengthening the 
Organization,  and  in  that  context  Belarus  commends 
the 
the  management  reforms 
undertaken by the Secretary-General. For the reforms 
to succeed, we must develop a straightforward, simple, 
transparent system for delegating authority with the aim 
of ensuring that responsibilities and accountability are 
tied together. We also hope that establishing an annual 
budget  system  will  help  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of 
the United Nations and ensure greater flexibility in the 
financing of its functions.
The question of the reform of the Security Council 
has  been  a  separate  issue  for  a  relatively  long  time. 
In our view, one of the most significant achievements 
of  Council  reform  would  be  its  budget  neutrality.  We 
support the efforts of the States Members of the United 
Nations  to  broaden  the  dialogue  on  ways  to  reform 
the  Security  Council,  taking  into  account  current 
global  realities  and  the  need  to  adapt  the  Council’s 
configuration  to  changing  conditions.  In  principle, 
we support a broader representation in the Council of 
individual  regional  groups,  including  the  countries  of 
Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa, Latin America and others. 
However,  only  a  balanced,  gradual  and  consensus-
based  approach  to  the  issues  related  to  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  can  ensure  that  our  States’  joint 
efforts can succeed. The process of revising the annual 
report  on  “Revised  Elements  of  Commonality  and 
Issues for Further Consideration” should not be based 
on an arbitrary interpretation of States’ proposals. The 
idea  of  imposing  non-consensus  solutions  that  do  not 
enjoy general support is counterproductive. Rushed or 
artificially imposed timetables for reaching agreements 
are  unacceptable.  Ultimately,  we  must  keep  in  our 
sights and not forget the true goal of our joint efforts, 
which  is  improving  the  effectiveness  of  the  Security 
Council’s work. Any attempts to substitute other short-
term  or  opportunistic  considerations  for  that  goal 
are despicable.
The microclimate within the United Nations itself 
can  also  make  a  real  contribution  to  improving  the 
effectiveness of the Organization in combating external 
threats and challenges. A dialogue between the States 
and  the  Secretariat  is  essential  to  ensure  that  United 
Nations  decisions  are  born  of  a  joint  dialogue,  which 
unquestionably  strengthens 
the  Organization  and 
enhances  its  standing  in  the  world.  As  we  all  know, 
agreement at home is the recipe for success. That is the 
way we must all strive for agreement within the United 
Nations  so  that  it  remains  a  genuine  forum  in  which 
our States can work with international civil servants to 
find  answers  to  the  global  problems  that  they  cannot 
resolve separately.
Mr.  Condor  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  I  have  the 
honour  to  take  the  floor  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
14  member  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM).
CARICOM greatly appreciates today’s forthcoming 
formal adoption of the draft political declaration on the 
prevention and control of non-communicable diseases 
(A/72/L.2).  Having  been  credited  with  elevating  the 
issue  of  non-communicable  diseases  on  the  global 
health agenda in 2011, CARICOM would like to express 
sincere congratulations to you, Madam President, on the 
General Assembly’s successful third high-level meeting 
on  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases,  at  which  we  witnessed  the  commitment 
of  national,  regional  and  international  stakeholders 
through 
the  endorsement  of  a  comprehensive, 
action-oriented draft political declaration. I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  appreciation 
to 
Italy  and 
Uruguay  for  their  facilitation  of  the  consultations 
on  non-communicable  diseases  that  have  led  us  to 
today’s adoption.
the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
(Russian  Federation) 
Finally, we want to congratulate the wider United 
Nations  membership  on  today’s  adoption  of  the  draft 
political  declaration.  We  believe  that  now  is  the  time 
to  deliver.  We  therefore  fully  commit  to  accelerating 
our  response  in  order  to  address  non-communicable 
diseases  for  the  health  and  well-being  of  present  and 
future generations.
Ms.  Frolova 
(spoke 
in  Russian):  Today  we  would  like  to  address  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  entitled  “Shifting 
the  management  paradigm  in  the  United  Nations: 
comparative assessment of human resources structures” 
(A/73/366),  which  we  have  studied  with  interest.  It 
gives a comparative assessment of the Secretariat’s two 
proposed  variations  of  the  functioning  of  personnel 
divisions. The alternatives are either to unite all of them 
in  one  department  or  to  split  them  between  two  new, 
reorganized departments, one for management strategy, 
policy  and  control  and  one  for  operational  support. 
We  were  unfortunately  unable  to  reach  a  consensus 
on  this  crucial  aspect  of  management  reform  during 
18-31253
3/9
A/73/PV.18 
10/10/2018
the seventy-second session. In our view, any changes, 
if  they  are  to  be  agreed  by  consensus,  must  ensure  a 
comprehensive  approach  to  resolving  the  underlying 
problems of improving and optimizing the work of the 
United Nations in the area of human resources.
that 
We  want 
to  particularly  emphasize 
the 
report  (A/73/411)  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  (ACABQ) 
contains  a  reference  to  a  previous  recommendation 
that supported the idea of a single structure subsuming 
all  human-resources  issues.  Besides  that,  we  think  it 
is also important to consider section IV, paragraph 4, 
of  resolution  72/262  C  along  with  the  report  on  the 
comparative assessment of human resources structures. 
It  requests  that  the  Secretary-General  submit  a  new 
proposal  for  the  global  service  delivery  model  no 
later  than  the  first  resumed  part  of  the  seventy-third 
session of the Fifth Committee. The ACABQ concluded 
that  the  new  global  service  delivery  model  could 
have  a  direct  impact  not  only  on  the  functioning  and 
formation  of  human  resources  structures,  but  also  on 
issues of the delegation of authority and accountability. 
For  our  part,  we  are  in  favour  of  retaining  all  human 
resources  functions  under  a  single  structure  within 
the Secretariat, for which the most appropriate choice 
would be the Department of Operational Support.
In conclusion, we want to point out that the Russian 
delegation  is  ready  to  work  constructively  on  this 
agenda item in the Fifth Committee.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in the debate on these items.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/73/L.2.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Ms.  De  Miranda 
for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  This  oral 
statement  is  made  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the 
rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
(Department 
Under  the  terms  of  paragraph  50  of  the  political 
declaration  contained  in  draft  resolution  A/73/L.2, 
the  declaration  requests  the  Secretary-General,  in 
consultation with Member States and in collaboration 
with the World Health Organization and relevant funds, 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations system, to submit to the General Assembly, by 
the end of 2024, for consideration by Member States, a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation 
of  the  political  declaration,  in  preparation  for  a  high-
level  meeting  in  2025  for  a  comprehensive  review  of 
the  progress  achieved  in  the  prevention  and  control 
of  non-communicable  diseases  and  the  promotion 
of  mental  health  and  well-being.  With  regard  to  the 
request  for  a  high-level  meeting  in  2025  contained  in 
paragraph  50,  it  is  understood  that  all  issues  related 
to  the  meeting,  including  the  dates,  venue,  format, 
organization  and  scope,  are  yet  to  be  determined. 
Accordingly,  in  the  absence  of  modalities  for  the 
meeting, it is not possible at the present time to estimate 
the potential cost implications of the requirements for 
meetings and documentation. Upon the decision on the 
modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the  meeting, 
the Secretary-General would submit the relevant costs 
of  such  requirements  in  accordance  with  rule  153 
of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Furthermore, the dates of the meeting will have to be 
determined  in  consultation  with  the  Department  for 
General Assembly and Conference Management. 
Accordingly,  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.2 will not give rise to any budgetary implications 
under  the  programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2018-
2019. 
A copy of this statement will be made available on 
the PaperSmart portal.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.2, 
entitled  “Political  declaration  of  the  third  high-level 
meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and 
control of non-communicable diseases”.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt 
draft resolution A/73/L.2?
adopted 
resolution  A/73/L.2  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/2).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the floor to speakers in explanation of position on the 
resolution just adopted, May I remind delegations that 
explanations  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
I now give the floor to the representative of Italy.
Mrs.  Zappia  (Italy):  Ambassador  Elbio  Rosselli 
Frieri,  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Uruguay, 
and  I,  continuing  the  work  done  by  my  predecessor, 
the  negotiations 
had 
to  co-facilitate 
the  honour 
4/9 
18-31253
10/10/2018 
A/73/PV.18
on  the  political  declaration  of  the  third  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  prevention 
and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases,  held  in 
New  York  on  27  September.  Let  me  congratulate 
you,  Madam  President,  on  your  successful  leadership 
on  that  occasion.  In  addition,  on  behalf  of  my  fellow 
co-facilitator, I want to warmly thank all Member States 
for their active and constructive engagement during the 
negotiations,  which  enabled  us  to  reach  consensus  on 
a draft text, which was then approved during the high-
level meeting and today is reflected in resolution 73/2, 
which we have just adopted. The result, which we can all 
be proud of, is a concise, balanced and action-oriented 
document 
the  opportunities  and 
challenges presented by the implementation of previous 
commitments  and  highlights  some  key  concrete  areas 
of  action  for  the  achievement  of  target  3.4  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals, such as the importance 
of healthy lifestyle choices for the effective prevention 
of non-communicable diseases.
that  builds  on 
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  today 
is  World  Mental  Health  Day,  and  that  the  declaration 
that  we  just  adopted  addresses  that  issue  extensively 
and  concretely.  While  the  Organization’s  discussions 
and  activities  related  to  non-communicable  diseases 
will continue mostly in Geneva, we are confident that 
the  outcome  of  our  efforts  in  New  York  will  be  able 
to  effectively  guide  the  action  of  the  membership  at 
the international, national and local levels in the fight 
against  non-communicable  diseases,  keeping  in  mind 
the review of the related targets scheduled for 2025.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would  like 
to  express  my  sincere  thanks  to  Ambassador  Elbio 
Rosselli  Frieri  of  Uruguay  and  Ambassador  Maria 
Angela  Zappia  of  Italy,  the  co-facilitators  of  the 
informal  consultations,  who  showed  great  ability 
and  patience  in  their  conduct  of  the  discussions  and 
complex negotiations on the draft of resolution 73/2. I 
also want to thank all Member States for their valuable 
contributions  to  reaching  a  substantive  agreement  on 
the resolution.
Agenda item 119 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium 
Summit
Specific meeting focused on development 
(resolution 60/265)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  been 
informed  that  no  Member State  has  requested to take 
the floor under this item.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 119.
Agenda item 129
Global health and foreign policy
Draft resolution (A/73/L.4)
The President (spoke in Spanish): I would like to 
remind  members  that  the  debate  on  agenda  item  129 
is  scheduled  to  be  held  on  Thursday,  13  December, 
as  announced  in  the  programme  of  work  set  out  in 
document A/INF/73/3.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/73/L.4.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Ms. De Miranda (Department for General Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  This  oral  statement 
is  made  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under  the  terms  of  paragraph  53  of  the  draft 
political  declaration  contained  in  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.4, the Secretary-General is requested, with the 
support of the World Health Organization, to provide a 
progress report in 2020 on global and national progress, 
across sectors, in accelerating efforts to achieve agreed 
tuberculosis goals within the context of achieving the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  including 
on the progress and implementation of the present draft 
declaration  towards  agreed  tuberculosis  goals  at  the 
national,  regional  and  global  levels,  which  will  serve 
to inform preparations for a comprehensive review by 
Heads of State and Government at a high-level meeting 
in 2023.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda items 14, 125 and its sub-items 
(a) and (b), and 126.
It  is  anticipated  that  the  request  in  paragraph  53 
for  documentation  related  to  the  progress  report  in 
2020 will constitute an addition to the documentation 
18-31253
5/9
A/73/PV.18 
10/10/2018
workload of the Department for General Assembly and 
Conference  Management  of  one  document  of  8,500 
words  to  be  issued  in  all  six  languages.  That  would 
entail additional requirements in the amount of $26,000 
for documentation services in 2020.
With  regard  to  the  high-level  meeting  in  2023 
referred  to  in  paragraph  53,  it  is  understood  that  all 
issues  related  to  the  meeting,  including  the  venue, 
format, organization and scope, are yet to be determined. 
Accordingly,  in  the  absence  of  modalities  for  the 
meeting, it is not possible at the present time to estimate 
the potential cost implications of the requirements for 
meetings  and  documentation.  Upon  a  decision  on  the 
modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the  meeting, 
the Secretary-General would submit the relevant costs 
of  such  requirements  in  accordance  with  rule  153 
of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Furthermore, the dates of the meeting will have to be 
determined  in  consultation  with  the  Department  for 
General Assembly and Conference Management.
Accordingly,  should  the  General  Assembly  adopt 
the draft resolution A/73/L.4, additional requirements 
of  $26,000  under  section  2,  “General  Assembly  and 
Economic and Social Council Affairs and Conference 
Management”,  would  be  included  in  the  proposed 
programme budget for the year 2020.
Copies of this statement will be made available on 
the PaperSmart portal.
take  a  decision  on  draft 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now 
resolution 
A/73/L.4,  entitled  “Political  declaration  of  the  high-
level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  fight 
against tuberculosis”.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt 
draft resolution A/73/L.4?
resolution  A/73/L.4  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/3)
The President: Before giving the floor to speakers 
in  explanation  of  position,  may  I  remind  delegations 
that explanations are limited to 10 minutes and should 
be made by delegations from their seats.
adopted 
Mr.  El  Ashmawy  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak on behalf of the Group of 77 (G-77) and China.
Allow me, at the outset, to welcome the successful 
convening  of  the  first  high-level  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  tuberculosis,  which  took  place 
on  26  September.  The  meeting  garnered  high-level 
participation and resulted in the endorsement of a draft 
political declaration with clear and bold commitments. 
The  meeting  also  included  a  rich  debate  with  diverse 
stakeholders  on  avenues  to  better  prevent,  diagnose 
and  treat  tuberculosis  (TB)  in  order  to  end  TB  by 
2030,  as  we  all  committed  to  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
I  would  like  to  express  the  appreciation  of  the 
Group to the Permanent Representatives of Antigua and 
Barbuda and Japan, as well as their staffs, for facilitating 
the  process  of  consultation  on  ending  tuberculosis, 
starting from the scoping modalities resolution through 
the negotiations on the draft political declaration. The 
negotiations were not easy, but we should all be proud 
of our strong commitments in the final text.
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  you, 
Madam  President,  along  with  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session,  and 
the  respective  teams  for  the  leadership  in  convening 
a  successful  high-level  meeting,  along  with 
the 
informative  interactive  civil  society  hearings  held  on 
4 June.
Finally,  we  would  like  to  congratulate  ourselves 
and  fellow  colleagues  for  the  political  declaration 
adopted  today  by  the  General  Assembly  (resolution 
73/3). We would like to stress the priorities raised in the 
G-77  and  China  statement  delivered  during  the  high-
level meeting. We believe it is now time for all of us to 
deliver the actions set out in the political declaration in 
order to end TB by 2030, in accordance with the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mr. Charwath (Austria): The European Union and 
its member States, on whose behalf I have the honour 
to speak today, welcomed the draft political declaration 
of  the  first  high-level  meeting  on  tuberculosis,  held 
on  26  September,  as  a  concise  and  action-oriented 
document  that  calls  for  an  accelerated  response  and 
renewed commitment. First and foremost, I would like 
to congratulate the co-facilitators — the representatives 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  Japan  —  for  achieving 
consensus on the draft declaration.
We should now concentrate all our efforts to address 
the actions proposed in the declaration (resolution 73/3) 
and  work  on  their  implementation.  In  the  European 
Union  there  are  countries  with  very  low  tuberculosis 
(TB)  incidence  that  are  close  to  eliminating  TB  and 
6/9 
18-31253
10/10/2018 
A/73/PV.18
countries  with  high  TB  incidence.  Many  countries 
also  face  additional  challenges,  including  multi-drug 
resistance  and  particular  vulnerabilities  faced  by 
people  infected  with  HIV  or  hepatitis.  Despite  recent 
progress,  especially  in  the  EU,  sustained  efforts  are 
needed if Europe as a region is to meet the 2030 targets 
and eradicate TB.
Tuberculosis continues to disproportionately affect 
the most vulnerable — the poor, the homeless and the 
socially  marginalized,  including  people  infected  with 
HIV.  As  such,  health  and  social  policies  must  work 
hand in hand and we must work to reach those most at 
risk. Strengthening public health systems is paramount. 
We welcome the development of national and regional 
TB strategies that address the challenges and capacities 
of each country, as well as the acceleration of plans to 
achieve  universal  health  coverage.  We  recognize  that 
multi-drug-resistant TB is a global health threat.
Resistance 
to  antimicrobial 
therapies  greatly 
increases  the  risk  of  death  or  serious  complications 
and is associated with approximately 5.5 times higher 
treatment costs. We must urgently tackle antimicrobial 
resistance  through  a  one-health  approach  in  human 
and  animal  health,  while  ensuring  the  prudent  use 
of  antibiotics.  Investment  in  research  is  critical  and 
involves developing effective and affordable medicines, 
including those that address drug-resistant forms of TB 
and child-friendly formulas.
We also need new rapid diagnostic tools. It is crucial 
that  we  invest  more  in  new  prevention  tools,  such 
vaccines,  and  in  applied  research  to  increase  existing 
and  new  tools  for  maximum  impact.  The  European 
Union’s  contribution  to  research  through  our  current 
research  programme  so  far  amounts  to  €150  million. 
We will continue to invest in that area and ensure that 
new tools for tuberculosis are rapidly made accessible 
to all.
The  European  Union  is  at  the  forefront  of  the 
fight  against  TB  in  partner  countries.  The  EU  and 
its  member  States  are  the  largest  contributors  to  the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
The support of the Global Fund has led to impressive 
results.  During  2017,  in  countries  where  the  Global 
Fund  invests,  5  million  people  with  TB  were  treated 
and  102,000  people  with  drug-resistant  TB  went  on 
treatment.  Consequently,  we  commit  to  supporting  a 
successful replenishment of the Global Fund in 2019.
Tuberculosis  can  affect  everyone,  but  every 
country’s  capacity  to  respond  might  vary.  We  must 
approach  this  epidemic  from  all  angles  —  funding, 
research, prevention, treatment and education. We need 
to increase solidarity with the vulnerable among us. In 
that  regard,  the  European  Union  is  contributing  with 
almost €2 million in the early detection and integrated 
management  of  tuberculosis  in  Europe  for  irregular 
residence and people who inject drugs. The European 
Union  will  continue  to  support  action  to  address 
tuberculosis  at  home,  in  the  European  neighbourhood 
and  globally,  while  using  the  financial,  technical  and 
political instruments available to it.
Mr. Srivihok (Thailand): Thailand fully endorses 
and welcomes the adoption of the political declaration 
of the first-ever high-level meeting on the fight against 
tuberculosis  (resolution  73/3).  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
political declaration will serve to scale up our efforts to 
further reach out the ones left behind.
Thailand  also  wishes  to  express  its  appreciation 
to  Ambassador  Webson,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and  Ambassador  Bessho, 
Permanent Representative of Japan, as co-facilitators of 
this very important process. It was a challenging task, 
but  indeed  a  successful  one.  The  same  appreciation 
also  goes  to  Ambassador  Cardi,  former  Permanent 
Representative  of  Italy,  Ambassador  Rosselli  Frieri, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Uruguay,  as  well  as 
Ambassador  Rattray,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Jamaica,  for  their  stewardship  of  the  process  on 
non-communicable diseases.
Our  work  does  not  end  here,  rather  it  is  only  a 
push  from  where  we  began  three  years  ago.  Thailand 
is  strongly  committed 
to  achieving  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  3  and  all  other  Goals.  We  also 
eagerly  look  forward  to  the  high-level  meeting  on 
universal  health  coverage  to  be  held  next  year,  where 
members can be sure of our constructive role. Universal 
health  coverage  is  something  we  appreciate,  as  it  is 
truly the key to good health and well-being for all.
Ms. Bhengu (South Africa): South Africa wishes to 
congratulate you, Madam President, on the successful 
convening of the historic high-level meeting on the fight 
against  tuberculosis  (TB).  Equally,  we  wish  to  thank 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Japan  and  Antigua 
and Barbuda for facilitating the entire process.
Tuberculosis  is  not  just  a  medical  condition,  it 
has  many  social  determinants.  They  include  poverty, 
18-31253
7/9
A/73/PV.18 
10/10/2018
unemployment, poor nutrition, overcrowding and social 
stigma, which fuel the spread of diseases. That means 
that the poor and marginalized carry a disproportionate 
disease  burden.  Africa  bears  a  significant  burden  of 
disease related to TB, in Southern Africa in particular, 
and it is fuelled by the HIV epidemic.
Linked  to  the  antimicrobial  resistance  global 
problem  is  the  threat  and  seriousness  of  multi-drug-
resistant TB, which will exacerbate the high incidence, 
prevalence  and  related  mortality  per  capita  in  Africa. 
Despite 
the  strides  made  by  the  South  African 
Government,  drug-resistant  TB  remains  the  leading 
cause of death in our country, especially among HIV-
positive patients. It is for that reason that South Africa 
joins  and  welcomes  the  adoption  of  resolution  73/3, 
which comprehensively addresses the challenge.
We  see  this  as  a  historic  opportunity  to  generate 
effective  change  and  offer  a  concrete  way  forward. 
But  this  is  only  the  beginning.  We  need  to  intensify 
our  efforts  at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels, 
with accountability at the core at all levels. Investing in 
research and development is critical if we are to develop 
new  diagnostics,  vaccines  and  medicines  and  find 
innovative ways to deal with the social determinants of 
tuberculosis and its transmission.
To  succeed,  we  need  to  ensure  that  drugs  are 
affordable.  Therefore,  the  principle  of  delinkage  as 
agreed  in  the  political  declaration  of  the  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  antimicrobial 
resistance  is  essential.  We  must  adhere  to  the  World 
Trade  Organization  Agreement  on  Trade-Related 
Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (TRIPS)  as 
well  as  to  the  2001  Doha  Declaration  on  the  TRIPS 
Agreement  and  Public  Health,  which  recognizes  that 
intellectual  property  rights  should  be  interpreted  in  a 
manner that supports public health and promotes access 
to medicine for all.
Please be assured of our commitment to ensuring 
that we do everything possible to end tuberculosis as a 
public health threat by 2030, if not earlier.
Mr.  Bessho 
(Japan):  On  behalf  of  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Alfonso  Webson,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and  myself 
as  co-facilitators  of  the  high-level  meeting  on  the 
fight against tuberculosis (TB), I would like to express 
sincere  appreciation  to  all  the  Member  States  and 
observers for the commitment and spirit of flexibility 
exhibited  while  we  jointly  worked  to  draft  the  first 
ever  political  declaration  (resolution  73/3)  by  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  fight  against  tuberculosis. 
Thanks  to  their  constructive  engagement,  we  were 
able to agree on a strong groundbreaking declaration, 
which  was  endorsed  unanimously  by  Heads  of  State 
and  Government  and  Ministers  during  the  high-level 
meeting  convened  on  26  September  and  formally 
adopted by consensus today.
We  would  like  to  thank  you,  Madam  President, 
and  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy second session, the Office of the President of 
the  General  Assembly,  the  Office  of  the  Secretary-
General and the Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on 
Tuberculosis, the World Health Organization and other 
key partners, notably the Global TB Caucus and the Stop 
TB Partnership, for their strong support and assistance.
As  we  prepared  for  the  negotiations  on  the  final 
document  while  building  on  the  Moscow  Declaration 
on  Tuberculosis,  we  were  able  to  listen  to  the  voices 
of many stakeholders, including, most important, those 
of  TB  survivors  and  their  families  and  supporters. 
The  process  included  mission  briefings,  civil  society 
hearings  organized  by  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  bilateral  meetings  —  all  of  which 
profoundly  enriched  the  consultations  concerning  the 
political declaration.
includes 
This first-ever political declaration on tuberculosis 
by 
some  key 
the  General  Assembly 
commitments:  treatment  target  figures  of  40  million 
people  and  preventive  treatment  target  figures  of 
40  million  people,  commitments 
to  mobilizing 
$13  billion  for  tuberculosis  response,  as  well  as 
$2 billion for research and development. The declaration 
also  highlights  important  issues  in  the  fight  against 
tuberculosis,  including  special  attention  to  children 
and vulnerable populations, gender and human rights, 
access to affordable medicines, resilient health systems 
and incentives to research and development.
In  order  to  measure  our  progress,  the  declaration 
requests  the  Secretary-General  to  prepare  a  progress 
report in 2020 and to convene a high-level review meeting 
in 2023. It also highlights important linkages to HIV/
AIDS and in microbial resistance, non-communicable 
diseases and, most notably, universal health coverage. 
We  must  now  implement  the  commitments  made 
by  our  leaders  to  end  tuberculosis.  Member  States 
will  convene  the  high-level  meeting  on  universal 
health  coverage  next  September.  We  must  capitalize 
8/9 
18-31253
10/10/2018 
A/73/PV.18
on  this  opportunity  to  accelerate  our  efforts  to  end 
tuberculosis in a way that synergizes with our efforts 
to address both communicable and non-communicable 
diseases, thereby contributing to the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
As  part  of  our  contribution,  Japan  will  convene 
a  series  of  relevant  meetings  next  year,  including 
the  Summit  of  the  Group  of  20  in  Osaka  and  the 
seventh  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African 
Development, which will promote our collective efforts 
in those areas. Let us also work together to make next 
year’s high-level meeting on universal health coverage 
an  important  milestone  in  following  through  on  our 
pledge  to  end  tuberculosis  so  that  no  one  will  be  left 
behind  from  the  highest  attainable  health,  which 
everyone deserves.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of position.
I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere  thanks  to 
Ambassador  Walton  Alfonso  Webson  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda and Ambassador Koro Bessho of Japan, who 
served as co-facilitators of the informal consultations 
and  demonstrated  great  skill  and  patience 
in 
conducting the deliberations and complex negotiations 
on resolution 73/3, which, as has been said, is a historic 
resolution  —  the  first  General  Assembly  resolution 
on  tuberculosis.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  the 
involvement  and  commitment  of  the  civil  society 
organizations  whose  purpose  and  objective  is  the 
fight  against 
thank  Member 
States  for  their  valuable  contributions,  flexibility  and 
commitment in reaching agreement on the resolution.
tuberculosis.  I  also 
The Assembly has thus concluded the present stage 
of its consideration of agenda item 129.
The meeting rose at 11 a.m.
18-31253
9/9
