United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
49th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 11 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ten-Pow 
(Guyana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 78
Oceans and the law of the sea
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/68 
and A/73/368)
Reports on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole on the Regular Process 
for Global Reporting and Assessment of the 
State of the Marine Environment, including 
Socioeconomic Aspects (A/73/74 and А/73/373)
Report on the work of the United Nations Open-
ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans 
and the Law of the Sеа at its nineteenth meeting 
(A/73/124)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.35)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating 
to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Draft resolution (А/73/L.41)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Singapore to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.35.
Mr. Gafoor (Singapore): My delegation is pleased 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  agenda  item  78, 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”. This year Singapore 
had  the  great  honour  of  coordinating  the  informal 
consultations on draft resolution A/73/L.35. The actual 
coordination  was  done  by  my  colleague  Ms.  Natalie 
Morris-Sharma,  Director  of  the  International  Legal 
Division of the Ministry of Law of Singapore. Due to 
her work commitments, Ms. Morris-Sharma was unable 
to join us today and has asked me to convey her regrets 
to the Assembly. She would also like to express her deep 
appreciation for the support given by all delegations to 
ensure  an  acceptable  outcome  for  everyone.  I  would 
like  to  begin  by  introducing  the  draft  resolution  on 
her behalf.
The  draft  resolution  before  us  remains  one  of  the 
most  comprehensive  and  important  of  the  resolutions 
on oceans and the law of the sea adopted annually by 
the General Assembly. For that reason, it has come to 
be known as the oceans omnibus resolution. It covers a 
wide spectrum of activities and a broad range of issues, 
including  those  concerning  the  implementation  of  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and 
related agreements and instruments; capacity-building; 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes;  the  work  of  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-42609 (E)
*1842609*

A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
bodies  established  under  the  Convention,  that  is,  the 
International Seabed Authority (ISA), the Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea; maritime 
safety and security; the marine environment and marine 
resources;  marine  biodiversity;  marine  science;  the 
Regular Process for Global Reporting and Assessment 
of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment,  including 
Socioeconomic  Aspects;  regional  cooperation;  the 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea; and the activities of the Division for Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea.
This  year 
informal  consultations  were  held 
over  nine  days,  from  1  to  4  October  and  from  14  to 
20 November. As always, negotiations were intense and 
covered a wide range of issues. In the interests of time, 
I will not attempt to cover all the issues raised. I will, 
however, highlight six points as examples of issues that 
emerged from this year’s negotiations.
First,  the  draft  resolution  takes  stock  of  the 
activities of the International Seabed Authority. Among 
other  things,  it  welcomes  the  progress  of  the  work  of 
the Authority on draft regulations for the exploitation 
of  mineral  resources  in  the  Area  and  emphasizes  the 
ongoing  need  for  openness  and  transparency.  It  also 
welcomes  the  decision  to  adopt  the  International 
Seabed Authority’s Strategic Plan for the period from 
2019  to  2023  (ISBA/24/A/4),  as  well  as  the  efforts  of 
the Authority to make progress on the development of 
regional environmental management plans, in particular 
where there are currently exploration contracts.
Secondly, the draft resolution recognizes the needs 
of developing States in the context of making submissions 
to  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf. In that connection, the draft resolution amends 
the terms of reference, guidelines and rules of the Trust 
Fund for the purpose of facilitating the preparation of 
submissions  to  the  Commission.  The  draft  resolution 
also  decides  that  the  members  of  the  Commission 
have  the  option  of  joining  the  Headquarters  medical 
insurance  scheme  on  payment  of  the  full  cost  of  the 
premium.  That  would  be  on  an  exceptional  basis  and 
without setting a precedent for other agenda items.
the 
resolution 
Thirdly, 
importance  of 
draft 
the  work  undertaken  by 
underscores 
the 
the 
Intergovernmental Conference to elaborate the text of 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
the 
draft 
notes 
Fourthly, 
resolution 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction. In that 
regard,  the  draft  resolution  welcomes  the  holding  of 
the organizational meeting and the first session of the 
Intergovernmental  Conference.  It  also  requests  the 
Secretary-General  to  convene  the  second  and  third 
sessions of the Intergovernmental Conference in 2019.
the 
discussions  at  the  nineteenth  meeting  of  the  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  the  theme  of  anthropogenic 
underwater  noise,  and  calls  on  States  to  consider 
appropriate  cost-effective  measures  and  approaches 
to assess and address the potential socioeconomic and 
environmental  impact  of  anthropogenic  underwater 
noise. Such consideration would take into account the 
precautionary and ecosystem approaches and the best 
available  scientific  information,  as  appropriate.  The 
draft resolution goes on to decide that the next meeting 
will focus its discussions on the theme of ocean science 
and  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  Ocean  Science  for 
Sustainable Development.
Fifthly,  with  regard  to  the  Regular  Process,  the 
draft  resolution  welcomes  the  meetings  and  endorses 
the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Working Group of 
the Whole on the Regular Process for Global Reporting 
and Assessment of the State of the Marine Environment, 
including Socioeconomic Aspects. Among other things, 
it notes the Ad Hoc Working Group’s approval of the 
outline for the second World Ocean Assessment and its 
preliminary timetable and implementation plan.
Sixthly,  action  was  taken  this  year  to  address  the 
growing length and improve the readability of the draft 
resolution.  The  existing  resolution,  resolution  72/73, 
stands at 56 preambular and 370 operative paragraphs. 
It has been said that this undermines its readability and 
effectiveness. Delegations have discussed this for some 
time, and this year we finally took steps to address the 
issue,  resulting  in  the  retirement  of  language  that  is 
outdated or duplicative. Part IX of the draft resolution 
was also reordered to improve coherence. Delegations 
intend to continue these efforts to streamline the draft 
resolution next year.
I  want  to  convey  our  deep  appreciation  to  the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
its outstanding support throughout the process. I would 
also like to express sincere thanks to all the delegations 
that participated so actively and constructively during 
the  negotiations.  While  a  number  of  issues  were 
2/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
particularly  challenging,  delegations  were  eventually 
able  to  achieve  consensus  on  every  proposal  and 
paragraph. It therefore gives me great pleasure to submit 
the  draft  resolution  to  the  Assembly  for  its  adoption. 
It  is  my  hope  that  the  same  spirit  of  cooperation  and 
understanding that characterized the negotiations will 
be demonstrated by delegations today and that the draft 
resolution will be adopted by consensus.
I  would  now  like  to  speak  briefly  in  my  national 
capacity to make three points. First, I want to emphasize 
how  critically  important  a  rules-based  international 
order  is  for  our  oceans  and  seas.  That  has  become 
ever  more  significant  at  a  time  when  multilateralism 
is  increasingly  under  siege.  We  need  more  mutual 
understanding, cooperation and respect for international 
law,  not  less.  In  that  regard,  we  reaffirm  the  central 
role  of  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which 
sets out the legal framework within which all activities 
in  the  oceans  and  seas  must  be  carried  out.  We  also 
underscore the importance of the work undertaken by 
the ISA to develop the draft regulations on exploitation 
and  by  the  Intergovernmental  Conference  on  marine 
biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction 
to elaborate the text of an international legally binding 
instrument  under  the  Convention.  The  development 
of those instruments clarifies and adds to the body of 
law and the regulations that are fundamental to ocean 
governance.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  working 
closely with other delegations at the upcoming sessions 
of the ISA and the Intergovernmental Conference.
That  brings  me  to  my  second  point,  which  is 
the  importance  of  building  the  capacity  of  States 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  It  is  not  enough  to 
have  good  instruments,  institutions  and  processes  at 
the  international  level.  We  also  need  to  ensure  that 
countries  have  the  necessary  human  resources  and 
capability to implement those instruments and engage 
in the work of the relevant institutions and processes. 
As  a  small  island  State  with  no  natural  resources, 
Singapore  believes  that  the  development  of  human 
resources is key to a country’s sustainable development 
and  progress.  In  1992  we  therefore  established  the 
Singapore  Cooperation  Programme,  our  primary 
platform  for  assisting  fellow  developing  countries 
and  enhancing  South-South  cooperation.  In  July  of 
this year, we organized a course entitled “Sustainable 
marine  resources:  enhancing  biodiversity  in  coastal 
waterways”,  which  introduced  various  approaches  to 
managing and enhancing marine biodiversity in coastal 
waterways. In January of next year we will organize a 
course on the international law of the sea that will focus 
on the Convention, cover issues of maritime boundary 
delimitation  and  examine  the  role  of  the  relevant 
international organizations.
My  third  and  final  point  relates  to  the  ongoing 
implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal 
14.  Last  year  the  United  Nations  held  the  Ocean 
Conference,  which  has  garnered  more  than  1,400 
voluntary  commitments  to  date.  Despite  its  success, 
we cannot afford to rest on our laurels but must rather 
continue  to  sustain  the  momentum  that  has  been 
generated, respond to the call for action by the Ocean 
Conference  and  by  the  Assembly  and  implement  our 
respective voluntary commitments.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  say  that  we  cannot 
overstate the importance of our oceans and seas. They 
provide livelihoods for millions of people, enable food 
security  and  maritime  trade,  regulate  the  climate  and 
are  an  important  source  of  renewable  energy.  As  a 
small island State that depends on the oceans and seas 
for its survival, Singapore is deeply committed to the 
law of the sea and strongly believes that a multilateral 
rules-based system is key to securing the sustainability 
of  our  oceans,  seas  and  their  resources  for  future 
generations. I would therefore like to end by stressing 
the  importance  of  respecting  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level and adhering to the principles, rights 
and duties outlined in the Convention.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Norway to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.41.
Ms.  Skåre  (Norway):  Norway  had  the  honour 
of  coordinating  the  informal  consultations  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.41,  on  sustainable  fisheries.  Today 
I  am  pleased  to  introduce  that  text  on  behalf  of  all 
its  sponsors.  On  behalf  of  the  coordinator,  Andreas 
Kravik,  and  Norway,  I  would  like  to  thank  Director 
Gabriele Goettsche-Wanli and the staff of the Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  their 
expertise,  professionalism  and 
invaluable  support 
before  and  during  the  consultations.  This  year’s  draft 
resolution is a further step forward in the conservation 
and management of fish stocks, which are an essential 
resource  for  sustainable  development  in  much  of  the 
world and for our common future.
Sustainable  food  from  aquatic  ecosystems 
is 
playing  an  increasingly  critical  role  in  global  food 
18-42609
3/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
further 
and  nutrition  security.  Fisheries  are 
immensely 
important  to  employment,  trade  and  economic  well-
being  throughout  the  world.  The  draft  resolution 
before  us  addresses  vital  issues  such  as  securing 
sustainable  small-scale  fisheries,  combating  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing, addressing fishing 
overcapacity, 
improving  subregional  and 
regional  cooperation  to  achieve  sustainable  fisheries 
management and promoting the use of scientific advice 
in developing, adopting and implementing conservation 
and  management  measures.  It  also  addresses  relevant 
issues  dealt  with  in  other  United  Nations  forums. 
They  include  environmental  concerns  such  as  marine 
pollution  and  marine  litter  —  particularly  plastics 
and  microplastics  —  anthropogenic  underwater  noise 
and  the  impact  of  global  climate  change.  Another 
important issue that it addresses is the need to ensure 
decent  working  conditions  in  fisheries  and  other 
maritime sectors.
I would now like to speak in my national capacity. 
Norway  is  pleased  to  join  many  others  in  sponsoring 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.35,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the 
law of the sea”, as introduced by Ambassador Gafoor of 
Singapore. We thank Singapore and Ms. Morris-Sharma 
for  her  careful  stewardship  and  effective  leadership 
during  the  two  rounds  of  consultations.  The  draft 
resolution  addresses  important  issues  related  to  the 
implementation of the law of the sea. We fully support 
it and the parameters it outlines for ocean activities. Its 
preamble reaffirms that the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  sets  out  the  legal  framework 
within which all activities in the oceans and seas must 
be  carried  out,  and  Norway  fully  supports  that  view. 
The Convention provides clarity with regard to both the 
obligations  and  the  rights  of  States.  That  framework 
is  indispensable  for  the  sustainable  use  of  marine 
resources,  the  protection  of  the  marine  environment, 
the  safety  and  security  of  shipping,  international  and 
regional cooperation and marine scientific research.
The oceans have huge potential when it comes to 
meeting the world’s needs for resources, creating jobs 
and  fostering  economic  and  social  development.  But 
we  will  not  be  able  to  realize  that  potential  without 
sustainable  growth  in  ocean-based  industries.  This 
year, Norway’s Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, together 
with Heads of State and Government of coastal States 
around the world, established the High-level Panel for 
a Sustainable Ocean Economy. The Panel will harness 
leading scientific expertise from around the globe and 
consider evidence-based proposals for dealing with the 
global ocean crisis, including on sustainable fisheries, 
ocean-based energy solutions, tourism, new approaches 
to  marine  protected  areas,  and  the  ocean  economy. 
The Panel is committed to catalysing bold, pragmatic 
solutions for ocean health and wealth that support the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  build  a  better 
future for the planet and its people.
The obligation to protect and preserve the marine 
environment  is  clearly  set  out  in  the  Convention,  and 
States are required to take measures needed to prevent, 
reduce and control pollution of the marine environment. 
Marine  litter  is  one  of  the  biggest  environmental 
problems of our time. Around 8 million tons of plastics 
end up in the oceans every year. Most of that litter comes 
from land-based sources, because many countries have 
inadequate waste-management systems. It is therefore 
vital  to  improve  waste  management  in  developing 
countries,  increase  awareness  of  the  issue  of  marine 
litter  and  facilitate  effective  clean-up  programmes. 
Norway  is  playing  a  leading  role  in  global  efforts  to 
promote  clean  and  healthy  oceans.  The  development 
programme  to  combat  marine  litter  is  a  key  element 
of  my  Government’s  ocean  efforts  and  Norway  has 
substantially 
increased  funding  aimed  at  dealing 
with  the  problem.  Norway  has  worked  to  ensure  that 
the  prevention  of  marine  pollution,  including  marine 
plastic  litter,  is  a  key  theme  for  the  PROBLUE  trust 
fund recently established by the World Bank. Norway 
provided 125 million kroner to the fund this year.
Promoting  and 
facilitating  marine  scientific 
research is an essential element of the Convention and 
vital to achieving the sustainable use and conservation 
of  the  oceans.  Norway  strongly  supports  the  decision 
to  focus  next  year’s  discussion  in  the  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  the  theme  of  ocean  science 
and  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  Ocean  Science  for 
Sustainable Development.
Norway  is  a  steadfast  supporter  of  the  process  of 
developing a new instrument for the conservation and 
sustainable use of biodiversity in areas beyond national 
jurisdiction. We are fully aware of the challenges that 
lie  ahead,  as  the  Intergovernmental  Conference  on 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  will 
have  to  resolve  highly  complex  and  sensitive  issues. 
However,  we  remain  hopeful  that  we  will  be  able  to 
4/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
reach  an  agreed  outcome  through  constructive  and 
flexible negotiations among States under the effective 
and flexible leadership of Rena Lee of Singapore.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  Norway’s 
appreciation  for  the  hard  work  and  cooperation  of  all 
the delegations involved in the informal consultations 
on  these  two  draft  resolutions.  We  hope  that  this 
constructive approach can be maintained as we continue 
to  tackle  the  many  complex  issues  relating  to  oceans 
and fisheries.
Mrs. Mills (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the 14 member countries of the Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  on  sub-items  (a)  and  (b)  of 
agenda item 78, on oceans and the law of the sea.
CARICOM welcomes the opportunity to participate 
in today’s debate, as the issues under consideration are 
of seminal importance to its members as small island 
developing States whose fortunes are integrally linked 
to the ocean. We therefore thank the Secretary-General 
for the various reports that have been prepared to guide 
our  deliberations  as  we  take  stock  of  what  we  have 
been able to achieve since we last met to discuss these 
issues during the seventy-second session of the General 
Assembly (see A/72/PV.63 et seq.).
It  is  obvious  that  our  efforts  as  an  international 
community to confront the challenges that plague our 
marine  resources  have  yielded  mixed  results.  We  can 
be  proud  of  the  fact  that  awareness  about  the  risks 
confronting our oceans and seas has increased and that 
it has been underpinned by a greater sense of urgency 
regarding  immediate  and  concrete  action  to  effect 
meaningful  change.  The  situation  is  made  patently 
clear  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  contained  in 
document A/73/368, notably paragraphs 3 and 4, which 
describe the state of the oceans as being perilous and a 
global emergency. Equally unnerving are the findings 
of  a  recent  study,  to  which  the  report  also  refers, 
that  Goal  14  ranks  last  in  significance  among  all  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out in the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. CARICOM 
therefore  looks  forward  to  the  outcome  of  ongoing 
efforts  to  develop  the  methodology  for  indicators  for 
SDG 14, with the expectation that that could improve 
prospects for increasing awareness about the Goal.
The two draft resolutions to be adopted today — the 
omnibus draft resolution on oceans and law of the sea 
(A/73/L.35)  and  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/73/L.41)  —  are  the  results  of  long  and 
intense  negotiations,  with  delegations 
showing 
flexibility  and  a  desire  to  advance  the  objectives  of 
the draft resolutions. We wish to thank the respective 
co-facilitators,  Ms.  Natalie  Morris-Sharma 
of 
Singapore and Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway, under 
whose  able  guidance  and  leadership  we  were  able  to 
successfully  conclude  our  consultations.  Together, 
those  draft 
important  steps 
towards  strengthening  the  implementation  of  existing 
instruments on oceans at the global and regional levels. 
Consequently,  CARICOM  will  lend  its  traditional 
support to both texts.
resolutions  provide 
jurisdiction  was  a  milestone 
The convening in September of the first session of 
the Intergovernmental Conference on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biodiversity  of  areas 
beyond  national 
in 
the  efforts  to  fill  the  legal  gap  with  respect  to  the 
protection  and  use  of  the  resources  of  the  high  seas. 
CARICOM would like to congratulate the President of 
the  Conference,  Ambassador  Rena  Lee  of  Singapore, 
on the efficient manner in which she presided over our 
work, and looks forward to the remaining sessions to he 
held over the next two years. CARICOM stands ready to 
play its part in achieving a successful outcome in 2020.
CARICOM also fully supports the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole on the Regular Process for Global 
Reporting  and  Assessment  of  the  State  of  the  Marine 
Environment, including Socioeconomic Aspects, which 
is  so  ably  co-chaired  by  our  expert  colleagues  from 
Barbados and Estonia. As work for the preparation of 
the second World Ocean Assessment report intensifies, 
the  members  of  the  Assembly  can  rest  assured  that 
CARICOM will continue to be engaged in the process.
CARICOM countries have been playing their part 
in  supporting  the  adoption  of  plans,  programmes  and 
policies aimed at ensuring the health and preservation 
of  our  oceans  and  seas.  While  currently  protecting 
more than 10 per cent of its coastal marine territory, the 
Bahamas has launched its next 10 per cent of designated 
marine  protected  areas,  as  part  of  its  commitment 
to  reach  its  goal  of  having  20  per  cent  of  its  waters 
protected by 2020.
As we noted last year, several CARICOM countries 
have put in place measures to ban the use of single-use 
plastics:  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Belize,  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Saint Lucia and Grenada. Jamaica 
recently announced that it will impose a similar ban in 
January 2019, to be complemented by a ban, effective 
18-42609
5/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
for  the  same  period,  on  the  importation  of  expanded 
polystyrene  foam,  as  well  as  on  the  importation  and 
manufacture of plastic drinking straws. Barbados has 
also announced that it will ban single-use plastics and 
styrofoam  beginning  1  April  2019.  In  April  2018,  the 
Bahamas also signed a memorandum of understanding 
on banning single-use plastics and styrofoam containers 
by 2020.
CARICOM countries have also become parties to 
several  instruments  over  the  past  year.  In  February, 
Saint Kitts and Nevis acceded to the Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory 
Fish  Stocks.  Grenada  also  signed  the  International 
Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ 
Ballast Water and Sediments in July.
Despite  our 
increasing  knowledge  of  what 
lies  beneath  our  oceans  and  seas,  our  real  level  of 
understanding  of  the  state  and  nature  of  the  ocean 
environment, including the resources of the ocean floor, 
is still limited. For that reason, CARICOM welcomes 
the designation of the United Nations Decade of Ocean 
Science  for  Sustainable  Development  for  2021-2030 
and  looks  forward  to  the  work  that  will  inform  the 
various  activities  and  programmes  undertaken  over 
the period. It is our hope that in addition to improving 
our knowledge of the ocean, it will inspire the kind of 
science, technological innovations and policy interface 
needed  to  ensure  that  meaningful  action  is  taken  in 
support of the ocean.
We  look  forward,  in  that  regard,  to  the  twentieth 
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea next year, which will have as its theme the United 
Nations  Decade  of  Ocean  Science  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  believe  that  will  be  an  important 
complement  to  the  work  done  by  the  nineteenth 
session  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea in June on anthropogenic underwater noise, under 
the  stewardship  of  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Trinidad and Tobago and Cyprus.
The impacts of climate change and the acidification 
of  oceans  and  seas  remain  central  to  our  ongoing 
deliberations.  We  have  witnessed  a  worsening  and 
deepening trend where action to combat climate change 
and ocean acidification has not kept pace with what is 
really  required  to  reverse  current  trends.  Nowhere  is 
that more evident than in the provision of resources for 
climate financing. CARICOM is therefore pleased that 
the Secretary-General has sought to confront the issue 
with  the  recent  appointment  of  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Jamaica  and  the  President  of  France  as  champions  of 
climate  financing,  to  maximize  opportunities  for  the 
unpacking of much-needed funds. We believe that will 
be  an  important  way  to  draw  attention  to  the  issue, 
while also preparing for the Secretary-General’s special 
climate summit in 2019.
CARICOM welcomes the fact that the International 
Law Commission has agreed to include the issue of sea-
level  rise  in  its  long-term  programme  of  work.  There 
are  several  important  legal  questions  of  relevance  to 
CARICOM  States,  such  as  the  legal  implication  of 
sea-level  rise  on  baselines,  which  in  turn  influences 
the limits of maritime zones and boundaries extending 
from those baselines. The decision to consider sea-level 
rise is both timely and relevant, and could not have been 
more opportune. We reaffirm our call made in the Sixth 
Committee for the topic to be moved to the active work 
programme of the Commission and look forward to the 
future work of the Commission in that regard.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea  (UNCLOS)  remains  the  centrepiece  of  the  legal 
framework  within  which  all  activities  in  the  oceans 
and seas must be carried out. The universal and unified 
character  of  the  Convention  underscores  its  strategic 
importance  as  the  basis  for  national,  regional  and 
global  action  and  cooperation  in  the  marine  sector. 
As  the  constitution  of  the  ocean,  UNCLOS  remains 
central  to  the  sustainable  management  and  use  of 
marine resources.
The  work  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf 
remain indispensable for the effective implementation 
of  UNCLOS.  We  therefore  welcome  the  positive 
reports of the work of all three bodies in fulfilling their 
respective mandates.
We  are  especially  pleased  to  note  the  progress 
made on the review of article 154 and the Authority’s 
development of its Strategic Plan. We also welcome the 
efforts  to  ensure  consistency  and  a  linkage  with  the 
SDGs, as well as to put in place robust environmental 
regulations  and  management  plans.  We  believe  that 
6/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
augurs well for the Authority’s leadership role in that 
regard, especially in the context of the conservation and 
sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond 
national jurisdiction.
Also  noteworthy  is  the  fact  that  the  recently 
concluded twenty-fourth session of the Authority was 
subject  to  a  revised  schedule  of  meetings,  which  saw 
record  attendance  at  both  its  Council  and  Assembly 
sessions,  in  which  77  countries,  75  of  them  member 
States and two observers, presented credentials for the 
Assembly session, while 60 countries, of which 32 are 
Council  and  28  non-Council  members,  presented  for 
the Council.
The work of the United Nations Division for Ocean 
Affairs and the Law of the Sea (DOALOS) cannot be 
overemphasized.  CARICOM  applauds  the  Division 
for  its  professionalism  and  dedication  in  fulfilling  its 
duties despite its limited resources, and joins the call 
for the provision of the resources it needs to enable it to 
continue to execute its functions.
The  work  of 
the  United  Nations  University, 
particularly  the  Fisheries  Training  Programme  in 
Iceland  and  the  International  Ocean  Institute,  in 
capacity-building  and  facilitating  knowledge  and 
technology  transfer  in  ocean  governance  and  the  use 
of marine resources, s be recognized and commended.
Our  efforts  to  halt  the  challenges  that  confront 
our  marine  environment  will  not  reap  success  if  we 
do  not  seize  the  opportunities  to  work  together  to 
improve  coordination  and  cooperation.  For  example, 
illegal fishing poses a great challenge, with the limited 
capacity of small States to properly police their waters, 
thereby requiring greater cooperation and compliance. 
There is scope for that and other issues to be addressed, 
given the many initiatives being pursued at the national, 
regional and multilateral levels.
We recognize, for example, the recently concluded 
Sustainable Blue Economy Conference, held in Nairobi 
and  co-hosted  by  the  Governments  of  Canada  and 
Japan;  the  High-level  Panel  for  a  Sustainable  Ocean 
Economy,  co-chaired  by  the  Prime  Ministers  of 
Norway  and  Palau,  in  which  several  other  Heads  of 
Government, including Jamaica, are also involved; and 
the 2020 Ocean Conference being jointly organized by 
the Governments of Portugal and Kenya.
As  small  island  developing  States,  the  members 
of  CARICOM  have  an  intimate  relationship  with  the 
marine  environment,  on  which  we  are  deeply  reliant 
for our economic survival. We have therefore read with 
great interest the observations made by the Secretary-
General in chapter VI of his previously referenced report 
on  balancing  economic  growth  with  environmental 
protection. We support the importance of considering 
both issues along a broader continuum that also seeks 
to  strengthen  regional  and  international  cooperation 
and  coordination,  including  through  integrated  and 
cross-sectoral  approaches.  That  augurs  well  for  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine resources, 
while simultaneously addressing the various pressures 
on the marine environment.
Cooperation  and  coordination  should  also  extend 
to  the  United  Nations  system’s  activities  related  to 
the  ocean.  Capacity-building  and  the  creation  of 
partnerships will without any doubt remain critical. To 
that  end,  we  want  to  thank  our  bilateral  partners  and 
the  United  Nations  system  for  the  support  provided 
to  date  and  look  forward  to  the  strengthening  of 
those relationships in the coming years. For example, 
as  noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  in  2018 
CARICOM  nationals  from  Guyana,  Saint  Lucia, 
Trinidad and Tobago were awarded fellowships under 
the  United  Nations-Nippon  Foundation  Fellowship 
Programme.  Similarly,  Barbados  and  Belize  were 
among  the  countries  benefiting  from  a  project  jointly 
undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development  and  DOALOS  to  develop 
evidence-based  and  policy-coherent  ocean  economy 
and trade strategies.
Participation  in  discussions  on  the  oceans  and 
the  law  of  the  sea  is  key  to  finding  solutions.  The 
voluntary  trust  funds  that  exist  as  part  of  the  United 
Nations support system to advance that objective play 
an  indispensable  role  in  that.  We  therefore  express 
our  appreciation  for  the  contributions  that  have  been 
made,  but  remain  concerned  about  the  sustainability 
and  predictability  of  funding.  We  urge  for  continued 
support to that end. We would also like to acknowledge 
the  work  done  by  the  Special  Envoy  for  the  Oceans, 
Mr. Peter Thomson, who has been using his portfolio 
to build greater awareness and advocacy in support of 
the  voluntary  commitments  made  at  the  2017  Ocean 
Conference. The launch of the Communities of Ocean 
Action  to  implement  the  voluntary  commitments, 
generate new commitments and facilitate collaboration 
and networking in support of SDG 14 is welcome.
18-42609
7/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
CARICOM  is  at  the  forefront  of  regional  efforts 
to  develop  and 
implement  fisheries  management 
plans,  establish  and  strengthen  partnerships  among 
key  stakeholders  within  the  ocean  sector  and  combat 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing  and 
overfishing, which pose a threat to the sustainability of 
local and regional fisheries. We will therefore continue 
to implement our common fisheries policy and ensure 
regular  engagement 
through  regional  workshops, 
public  education  campaigns  and  multi-stakeholder 
consultations  coordinated  by  the  Caribbean  Regional 
Fisheries Mechanism, in partnership with organizations 
within  and  outside 
the  region.  We  acknowledge 
the  important  work  being  done  by  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  to 
support sustainable fisheries in the CARICOM region 
and globally.
There  is  no  denying  that  urgent  action  must  be 
taken.  The  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the 
oceans, seas and their resources is critical to sustainable 
development. We must act now, and decisively.
Mr. Tealei (Tuvalu): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf  of  the  12  members  of  the  Pacific  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS),  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, the Marshall Islands, Nauru, 
Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Samoa,  Solomon  Islands, 
Tonga, Vanuatu and my own country, Tuvalu.
At  the  outset,  the  Pacific  SIDS  would  like  to 
thank  Ms.  Natalie  Morris-Sharma  of  Singapore  and 
Mr.  Andreas  Kravik  of  Norway  for  bringing  the 
negotiations  on  the  oceans  omnibus  draft  resolution 
(A/73/L.35)  and 
fisheries  draft 
resolution (A/73/L.41) to a successful conclusion.
the  sustainable 
We attach particular importance to this agenda item. 
As we have often said, we consider the ocean the lifeblood 
of our economies and societies. We are therefore keenly 
attuned to the mounting negative effects on its health 
driven  by  human  activity.  Overfishing  and  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing, marine pollution, 
including from microplastics, the destruction of marine 
habitats  and  other  threats  to  marine  biodiversity, 
including climate change-driven impacts, such as ocean 
acidification,  are  among  a  number  of  serious  threats 
to the health and resilience of our shared ocean. They 
are not merely threats to our oceans; they constitute a 
serious  challenge  to  our  sustainable  development  and 
ability  to  meet  the  aspirations  embodied  in  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Among  other 
things, healthy, productive, and resilient oceans and seas 
are critical to poverty eradication, access to adequate, 
safe  and  nutritious  food,  economic  development  and 
essential ecosystem services.
We  are  pleased  that  we  have  begun  the  work  of 
the Intergovernmental Conference on an international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  We  underscore 
the importance of a legal instrument that is equitable, 
recognizes the special case of small island developing 
States,  ensures  respect  for  traditional  knowledge  and 
will contribute to a healthy ocean for future generations.
Concerning the issue of fisheries, we want to point 
out that they are the lifeblood of sustainable development 
for many of our States. We therefore urge our partners 
in  the  upcoming  meeting  of  the  Western  and  Central 
Pacific Fisheries Commission to support measures that 
will enable our tropical tuna stocks to continue to stay at 
levels that can produce at least the maximum sustainable 
yield. It is critical for our economies that we not relax 
the controls that have enabled us to move those stocks 
into the green zone. For Pacific SIDS, keeping central 
and western Pacific tuna stocks sustainable — not just 
biologically  sustainable,  but  at  a  sufficiently  elevated 
level to support unsubsidized fisheries — is a matter of 
national economic survival. Most Pacific SIDS are 100 
to  1,000  times  more  economically  dependent  on  tuna 
fisheries than other distant-water nations, and the atoll 
countries are in double jeopardy. As we go to this year’s 
meeting  of  the  Western  and  Central  Pacific  Fisheries 
Commission,  with  our  eyes  wide  open,  we  hope  that 
our friends at the United Nations — the delegations of 
developed States that are so generous with development 
advice  and  support  —  will  be  able  to  persuade  their 
fisheries  negotiators  back  home  to  stop  undermining 
their  work.  There  are  two  paths  to  development. 
One  involves  handouts.  The  other  involves  creating 
an  enabling  environment  for  sustainable  economic 
activity. Only one of them can succeed.
We would like to note that the oceans are a deeply 
interconnected space and that it is important to address 
fragmentation  in  that  regard.  We  see  a  role  for  UN-
Oceans  to  enable  better  coordination  and  cohesion  of 
United Nations work in this area. Finally, we commend 
the General Assembly for reaffirming its commitment to 
the full implementation of the Small Island Developing 
States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA) 
8/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
Pathway  and  ensuring  its  success  in  convening,  in 
September  2019,  a  one-day  high-level  review  of  the 
progress  made.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  the 
General Assembly and with delegations in the coming 
year to take the steps necessary to ensure that we can 
bequeath  a  healthy,  productive  and  resilient  ocean  to 
future generations.
Mrs.  Deiye  (Nauru):  I  am  pleased  to  deliver  this 
statement  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Pacific Islands Forum with Permanent Missions at the 
United Nations in New York.
First, I want to thank the co-facilitators, Ms. Natalie 
Morris-Sharma of Singapore and Mr. Andreas Kravik 
of  Norway,  for  bringing  the  negotiations  on  the 
oceans omnibus draft resolution on the law of the sea 
(A/73/L.35)  and  the  draft  resolution  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/73/L.41)  to  a  successful  conclusion.  We 
look forward to their adoption.
The  members  of 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
share  a  strong  and  united  interest  in  the  oceans  and 
their resources.We have long recognized the increasing 
threats  to  the  long-term  health  of  the  oceans,  and 
we  share  the  common  objectives  of  harnessing  the 
value  of  the  marine  resources  in  our  region  and,  as 
joint  custodians,  ensuring  their  conservation  and 
sustainable  use,  which  have  underpinned  the  work  of 
the Forum around the theme “The blue Pacific — our 
sea of islands”.
The  leaders  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  met 
in  Nauru  in  September  with  a  focus  on  the  theme  of 
“Building a strong Pacific: our people, our islands, our 
will”, in recognition of the opportunity that the theme 
presents  to  strengthen  the  region’s  collective  will  to 
overcome the persistent development challenges faced 
by  the  people  of  the  Pacific  face.  Our  leaders  took  a 
number  of  significant  decisions  to  advance  regional 
cooperation  on  a  range  of  issues  directly  relevant 
both  to  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  on  oceans 
and fisheries matters and to the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, particularly 
Sustainable  Development  Goal  14.  Most  notably,  the 
Forum  leaders  concluded  a  new  regional  security 
agreement, the Boe Declaration on Regional Security. 
That important initiative commits Pacific countries to 
greater cooperation on combating illegal fishing, drug 
trafficking and other transnational crimes.
The  Pacific 
leaders 
also 
acknowledged the urgency and importance of securing 
Islands  Forum 
the region’s maritime boundaries as a key issue for the 
development  and  security  of  the  Pacific  region.  We 
are therefore prioritizing action on maritime boundary 
delimitation and the resolution of outstanding maritime 
boundary  claims.  The  leaders  further  agreed  to  take 
action  on  important  environmental  initiatives.  For 
example, they committed to eliminating marine litter, 
in alignment with the Pacific Regional Action Plan on 
Marine Litter for the period from 2018 to 2025.
A  healthy,  productive  and  resilient  ocean 
is 
critically important to our oceanic region. We welcome 
the  continued  emphasis  on  the  universal  and  unified 
character  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS),  which  is  the  recognized 
and  accepted  constitution  of  the  ocean  and  the  legal 
framework  under  which  all  activities  in  the  oceans 
and seas should be carried out. We also appreciate the 
General Assembly’s continued attention to sustainable 
fisheries, which are an important resource for millions 
of people in our region and essential to the long-term 
health  of  the  oceans  and  our  economic  development. 
We are pleased that the draft resolution on sustainable 
fisheries  reaffirms  the  importance  of  sustainable 
fisheries management, including for highly migratory 
fish  stocks,  and  that  it  calls  for  continued  efforts  in 
that area.
We  further  commend  the  General  Assembly  for 
reaffirming its commitment to the full implementation 
of  the  Small  Island  Developing  States  Accelerated 
Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  and  for 
ensuring its success in convening a one-day high-level 
review in September 2019 of the progress made so far. 
We are pleased that the oceans omnibus draft resolution 
takes  note  of  the  multinational  partnership  of  the 
Phoenix Islands Protected Area and encourages States 
to  consider  implementing  the  International  Maritime 
Organization  guidelines  on  ships’  biofouling  in  order 
to minimize the transfer of invasive aquatic species.
We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
highlight two particular issues of interest. The first is 
the ongoing process that we have undertaken through 
the Intergovernmental Conference on an international 
legally  binding  Instrument  under  UNCLOS  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction. 
Our  Forum  leaders  underscored  the  importance  of 
the  creation  of  a  legal  instrument  that  introduces 
international  management  mechanisms  that  allow  for 
the comprehensive and effective management of areas 
18-42609
9/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
beyond  national  jurisdiction  and  marine  biodiversity, 
without undermining existing efforts and mechanisms.
The second issue is the effects of climate change, 
such as rising sea levels. Earlier this year, our Forum 
leaders  reaffirmed  that  climate  change  presents  the 
single  greatest  threat  to  the  livelihood,  security  and 
well-being  of  Pacific  people.  The  recently  released 
special  report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
Climate Change on what can be expected with global 
warming  of  2°C  as  compared  to  1.5°C,  sends  a  stark 
message to many of our States. It states that increasing 
warming amplifies the exposure of small islands, low-
lying  coastal  areas  and  deltas  to  the  risks  associated 
with  sea-level  rise  for  many  human  and  ecological 
systems, 
intrusion, 
flooding and damage to infrastructure. For our region, 
it is an existential threat.
increased  saltwater 
including 
It is therefore not surprising that the subject is one 
of utmost importance, particularly for low-lying small 
island  States  in  the  Pacific.  The  impact  on  Pacific 
communities is more varied and complex than is often 
assumed.  We  are  concerned  about  the  possibility  that 
salinization  will  threaten  crops  and  livelihoods  and 
coastal  erosion  will  result  in  more  destructive  storm 
surges  and  natural  disasters.  We  are  also  concerned 
about  the  potential  impact  of  sea-level  rise  on  our 
maritime  zones,  from  which  we  generate  significant 
revenue  and  with  which  we  have  a  close  cultural 
connection. The rights of archipelagic States under the 
law of the sea should also be taken into account in that 
regard.  We  call  on  the  General  Assembly  to  remain 
focused and to take action on this important matter.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Ms.  Gauci  (European  Union):  I  am  speaking  on 
behalf of the European Union (EU) and its member States. 
The candidate countries the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania;  the 
country  of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process 
and  potential  candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina;  as 
well as Ukraine, the Republic of Moldova and Georgia, 
align themselves with this statement.
We are meeting today to adopt two important draft 
resolutions, on oceans and the law of the sea (A/73/L.35) 
and  sustainable  fisheries  (A/73/L.41).  As  committed 
parties to the United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea (UNCLOS) and its implementing agreements, 
including the 1995 Agreement for the Implementation 
of  the  Law  of  the  Sea  Convention  relating  to  the 
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish 
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, the EU and 
its  member  States  have  participated  actively  in  the 
consultations to prepare these draft resolutions.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  are  satisfied  that 
both  draft  resolutions  continue  to  reflect  significant 
developments  in  important  processes  related  to  the 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  fisheries.  In  view 
of  the  recognition  accorded  to  the  central  role  of 
oceans  and  seas  in  the  context  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  we  continue  to  believe 
that  these  draft  resolutions  should  serve  to  focus  the 
attention  of  the  Assembly  and  the  general  public  on 
important  issues  in  the  marine  domain,  including 
fisheries and marine environment.
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  with  its  168  parties,  including  the  European 
Union, is rightly recognized, including by the EU and 
its  member  States,  as  the  constitution  of  the  oceans, 
as well as a reflection of international customary law. 
UNCLOS establishes the overarching legal framework 
within which all activities in oceans and seas must be 
carried out. By establishing the legal order for seas and 
oceans,  it  continues  to  contribute  to  peace,  security, 
cooperation and friendly relations among all nations as 
well as to sustainable development. We sincerely hope 
that the goal of universal participation in the Convention 
will  one  day  be  met.  We  nevertheless  acknowledge 
the necessity of ensuring that the Convention remains 
relevant and able to meet today’s challenges as well as 
those of the future.
in 
important  step 
the  first  substantive  session  of 
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  are 
therefore  pleased  to  recognize  the  good  progress 
achieved 
the 
Intergovernmental Conference established to negotiate 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  The 
successful  conclusion  of  that  first  session  constituted 
an 
implementing 
agreement,  which  remains  a  political  priority  for  the 
EU and its member States. We would like to thank the 
President of the Conference, Ambassador Rena Lee, for 
her excellent work and leadership in that regard, as well 
all delegations for their constructive participation. We 
look forward to continuing this important work at the 
towards  a  new 
10/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
two  upcoming  sessions  of  the  Conference  in  2019,  as 
well as in between sessions.
In line with the commitments undertaken in the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  elsewhere, 
the  EU  and  its  member  States  remain  committed  to 
achieving healthy and productive oceans and seas so that 
they can continue to support sustainable development 
for  the  good  of  all  humankind.  Nevertheless,  we 
remain  concerned  that  despite  our  shared  efforts, 
our  oceans  continue  to  face  significant  threats  and 
challenges,  including  climate  change  and  increasing 
atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, resulting in oceans 
that are warmer and more acidic, rising sea levels and 
extreme weather events; pollution such as plastics and 
microplastics, excessive nutrients and increasing levels 
of sound and anthropogenic underwater noise, as amply 
demonstrated  at  this  year’s  nineteenth  meeting  of  the 
Informal Consultative Process; overfishing and illegal, 
unregulated  and  unreported  fishing,  with  a  large 
percentage of assessed stocks classified as overfished, 
according  to  the  report  of  the  Food  and  Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations (FAO) entitled State 
of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2018.
If we are to succeed in ensuring that the oceans are 
clean,  healthy  and  productive,  and  keeping  them  that 
way, those global threats require enhanced cooperation 
and  coordination  and  our  firm  collective  political 
commitment  and  effective  action  in  line  with  the 
precautionary  principle  and  the  ecosystem  approach. 
We believe that is ever more necessary in view of the 
growing  importance  of  sustainable  ocean  economies, 
also  known  as  the  blue  economy,  to  many  countries 
around the world.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  want  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  their  strong  commitment  to 
concluding the negotiations on multilateral disciplines 
on fisheries subsidies in the context of the World Trade 
Organization, in line with commitments under the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We  continue 
to  maintain  that  harmful  subsidies  that  contribute  to 
overcapacity, overfishing and illegal, unregulated and 
unreported fishing are one of the main impediments to 
achieving  sustainable  fisheries.  While  we  are  pleased 
to  see  the  growing  number  of  parties  to  the  FAO 
Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter 
and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and  Unregulated 
Fishing, we nonetheless reiterate the call to more States 
to become parties to that Agreement.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  would  also  like 
to  touch  on  two  social  and  human  issues.  First,  we 
reiterate  the  importance  of  ensuring  decent  working 
conditions  on  board  fishing  vessels.  We  therefore 
encourage  States  to  become  parties  to  the  Work  in 
Fishing Convention, 2007 (No. 188), of the International 
Labour  Organization.  Secondly,  we  want  to  highlight 
the  importance  of  resolving  as  soon  as  possible  the 
long-standing issue of medical insurance coverage for 
the  members  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental  Shelf  so  that  they  can  proceed  with  their 
important work in the knowledge that they have access 
to adequate medical coverage while in New York.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation for the excellent stewardship demonstrated 
by  both  coordinators  of  the  two  draft  resolutions, 
Ms.  Natalie  Morris-Sharma  and  Mr.  Andreas  Kravik. 
We  also  recognize  the  constructive  participation  of 
other delegations in these negotiations, which ensured 
the  inclusion  of  numerous  important  topical  issues  in 
the draft resolutions. In that spirit, we also appreciate 
our common endeavours to make the draft resolutions 
more  effective  and  relevant,  including  through  the 
ongoing streamlining efforts.
We  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Chairs  of  the 
different United Nations meetings throughout the year, 
whose able leadership guided the work of delegations. 
We look forward to continuing that work at the various 
events throughout 2019, as well as the negotiations on 
marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction. The EU and its member States would like 
to express their gratitude to the Secretariat and to the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
their  excellent  work  and  constant  support  throughout 
the year.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 
Oceans are an important arena for global cooperation 
and development. All States should jointly promote the 
maritime rule of law and the sustainable development 
of the oceans. In that connection, I would like to share 
China’s position and views.
First, in order to strengthen global ocean governance 
and contribute to humankind’s shared future, China is 
ready to join with other countries under the principles 
of  extensive  consultation,  joint  contributions  and 
shared  benefits  in  order  to  work  actively  to  build  a 
twenty-first-century maritime Silk Road and establish 
a  multidimensional,  multilevel  and  broad-based  blue 
18-42609
11/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
partnership,  thereby  moving  closer  to  achieving  a 
community with a shared future in ocean affairs.
Secondly,  in  order  to  develop  the  blue  economy 
and  to  achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
China is committed to striking the appropriate balance 
between the protection of the oceans on the one hand, 
and their sustainable use on the other, and is actively 
implementing  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14. 
We  welcome  the  convening  of  the  United  Nations 
Ocean Conference and the Sustainable Blue Economy 
Conference. We hope that all States will work together 
to turn political will into concrete action.
Thirdly, in order to promote the international rule 
of  law  in  the  field  of  ocean  affairs  and  uphold  a  fair 
and reasonable maritime order, the 1982 United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  provides  a  general 
legal  framework  for  maritime  activities  and  serves 
as  their  fundamental  basis.  Meanwhile,  matters  not 
regulated by the Convention continue to be governed by 
the rules and principles of general international law. All 
parties must take an objective and impartial approach 
to interpreting and applying the rules of international 
maritime law, including the Convention, in good faith.
In the past year, good progress was made in the work 
of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf 
and the International Seabed Authority, contributing to 
efforts  to  settle  maritime  disputes  peacefully,  define 
the  outer  limits  of  the  continental  shelf  of  a  coastal 
State beyond 200 nautical miles and apply the principle 
of  the  common  heritage  of  humankind.  China  hopes 
that  these  three  bodies  will  remain  committed  to 
effectively discharging their responsibilities in earnest, 
as mandated by the Convention.
for 
the 
As 
formulation  of  an 
international 
instrument on the biological diversity of areas beyond 
national jurisdiction, the Intergovernmental Conference 
on  the  issue  was  formally  launched  last  September. 
Negotiations  on  that  instrument  should  follow  the 
principle  of  consensus  and  advance  gradually  on  the 
basis of that consensus so as to arrive at a regime that is 
rational, balanced, pragmatic, feasible and conducive to 
the common interests of member States and the overall 
interests of the international community as a whole.
As for the formulation of international regulations 
on seabed exploitation, China submitted its comments 
on  the  updated  draft  regulations  last  September. 
They  should  follow  the  Convention  and  its  1994 
Implementation Agreement in letter and in spirit, and 
aim  at  encouraging  and  facilitating  the  exploitation 
of  resources  in  the  Area  as  well  as  effectively 
protecting  the  marine  environment.  The  regulations 
should  be  formulated  step  by  step  on  a  basis  of  hard 
facts,  solid  scientific  evidence  and  learning  from 
national experience.
China is committed to strengthening international 
cooperation  and  capacity-building  in  ocean  affairs. 
This  year  we  hosted  conferences  that  included  the 
sixth International Symposium on Scientific and Legal 
Aspects  of  the  Regimes  of  the  Continental  Shelf  and 
the  Area,  an  Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation 
workshop  on  innovative  marine  debris  solutions,  an 
international  symposium  on  biological  diversity  of 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  and  the  United 
Nations  World  Geospatial  Information  Congress,  all 
with  fruitful  results.  China  has  consistently  made 
financial  contributions  to  the  voluntary  trust  fund  of 
the International Seabed Authority and the Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  with  a  view 
to  facilitating  developing  countries’  participation  in 
relevant efforts.
Global  fisheries  are  closely  linked  to  food  and 
nutrition  security,  marine  pollution  control  and 
eco-environmental  protection,  and  that  calls  for  close 
cooperation among all parties. China is committed to 
the  sustainable  development  of  fisheries,  and  I  would 
like to share some of our positions and proposals with 
the Assembly.
the 
First,  with  regard  to  adhering  to  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  promoting 
rational 
development  of  fisheries  resources,  China  has  been 
actively developing healthy and sustainable aquaculture. 
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  application  of 
ecosystem  approaches  and  preventive  methods  in 
fisheries  management,  as  well  as  greater  interaction 
between scientific assessments and fisheries policies.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  improving  our  national 
legal framework for fisheries and strengthening relevant 
law  enforcement,  China  has  established  a  complete 
framework  of 
laws,  regulations  and  management 
regimes  governing  fisheries,  and  has 
introduced 
measures such as licences for building fishing vessels 
and  fishing  permits  to  strengthen  the  supervision 
and  management  of  access  to  fisheries.  China  has 
also  enhanced  its  maritime  law  enforcement  and  port 
12/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
inspections, effectively implementing its domestic law 
and fulfilling the relevant international obligations.
Thirdly,  China  has  participated  extensively  in 
international cooperation to combat illegal, unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing,  has  been  actively  engaged 
in  bilateral  and  multilateral  fisheries  management 
cooperation,  is  deeply  involved  in  the  work  of  the 
relevant  regional  fisheries  management  organizations 
and  strictly  complies  with  their  conservation  and 
management  measures.  China  has  followed  a  zero-
tolerance  approach  to  all  types  of  illegal  fishing  to 
make sure that every reported case is investigated and 
that, once proven guilty, every perpetrator is convicted.
fisheries  management  organizations 
are  important  frameworks  identified  in  the  1995 
Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation 
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly 
Migratory Fish Stocks. China supports the holding in 
2019 of the fourteenth round of informal consultations 
of States Parties to the Agreement to exchange views on 
the topic of “Performance reviews of regional fisheries 
management organizations and arrangements”.
Regional 
China notes that draft resolution A/73/L.41 requests 
the  Secretary-General  to  invite  the  relevant  parties, 
including regional fisheries management organizations, 
to  submit  their  views  on  the  topic,  and  requests  the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea to 
post  them  on  its  website.  In  that  regard,  China  urges 
the Division to fulfil its duties and responsibilities on 
the basis of past practice, properly address the concerns 
of  all  parties  and  facilitate  the  informal  consultation 
process  so  that  it  plays  a  positive  role  in  promoting 
sustainable fisheries.
In our efforts to contribute to the shared future of our 
oceans and seas, promote the sustainable development 
of  marine  resources  and  uphold  the  international  law 
of the sea, China stands ready to continue to work with 
other  countries  in  a  concerted  effort  to  facilitate  the 
development of the law of the sea and the international 
fisheries-management  regime  and  make  a  greater 
contribution to building a beautiful blue home.
The  United  States  underscores 
the  central 
importance  of  international  law  as  reflected  in  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea, 
whose  universal  and  unified  character  is  emphasized 
in  the  draft  resolution.  As  we  witness  attempts  to 
impede  the  lawful  exercise  of  navigational  rights  and 
freedoms under international law, it is more important 
than ever to remain steadfast in our resolve to uphold 
those rights and freedoms. In that regard, we call on all 
States to formulate their maritime claims and conduct 
their  activities  in  the  maritime  domain  in  accordance 
with international law, as reflected in the Convention, 
to  respect  the  freedoms  of  navigation  and  overflight 
and  other  lawful  uses  of  the  sea  that  all  users  of  the 
maritime domain enjoy, and to peacefully settle disputes 
in accordance with international law.
The  United  States  values  the  platform  that  the 
General Assembly provides to elevate these important 
issues. The annual adoption of a resolution on oceans 
and the law of the sea serves as an invaluable opportunity 
for the global community to identify key ocean issues 
and develop constructive ways to address them.
We  are  particularly  pleased  that  this  year’s  draft 
resolution gives further support to the United Nations 
Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development, 
by deciding on the theme of ocean science for the 2019 
Informal Consultative Process on oceans and the law of 
the sea. The 2019 meeting of the Open-ended Informal 
Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea will be an excellent venue for soliciting ideas and 
feedback from the international community on critical 
gaps in our knowledge that the Decade of Ocean Science 
can fill, allowing us to seek science-based solutions for 
sustaining benefits from the ocean.
We are also pleased that this year’s draft resolution 
recognizes many of the significant global and regional 
efforts  to  reduce  plastic  in  the  ocean.  Marine  debris, 
largely  composed  of  plastic  waste  from  land-based 
sources,  imposes  significant  social  and  economic 
costs, threatening human well-being, food security and 
marine  ecosystems.  We  support  the  draft  resolution’s 
continued  encouragement  of  all  stakeholders 
to 
cooperate  on  environmentally  sound  and  pragmatic 
measures to prevent and reduce marine debris.
Ms. Palau-Hernandez (United States of America): 
The  United  States  is  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution A/73/L.35, entitled “Oceans and the law of 
the sea”.
One  of  the  most  important  aspects  of  this  year’s 
draft resolution is related not to text that was added but 
to text that was updated, reorganized or, in some cases, 
removed.  We  thank  all  delegations  for  the  concerted 
18-42609
13/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
and serious effort to make this lengthy draft resolution 
more accessible and more relevant. We look forward to 
continuing those efforts next year.
We  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Government 
of  Indonesia  on  hosting  another  highly  successful 
Our  Ocean  Conference,  providing  an  unparalleled 
opportunity  for  all  stakeholders  —  the  business 
community,  the  science  and  technology  community, 
Governments,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
funders — to address a common goal, the collaborative 
management and sustainable use of our ocean and its 
resources.  Building  on  the  success  of  the  previous 
Conferences,  hosted  by  Chile,  the  European  Union 
and  the  United  States,  the  participants  at  this  year’s 
Conference  in  Bali  announced  commitments  of  more 
than  $10  billion  to  address  key  issues  facing  the 
oceans, including combating marine debris, advancing 
maritime security and promoting sustainable fisheries. 
We look forward to the 2019 Conference in Norway, as 
well as the Conferences in Palau in 2020 and Panama 
in 2021.
We would also like to express our appreciation for 
the important leadership of Ms. Rena Lee of Singapore 
in  her  role  as  President  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Conference on an international instrument regarding the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  We 
look  forward  to  working  with  delegations  as  the 
Intergovernmental  Conference  continues  and  hope  to 
have a broadly supported result that takes into account 
the views of all delegations.
I  now  turn  to  draft  resolution  A/73/L.41,  on 
sustainable  fisheries.  We  greatly  value  the  important 
work  being  done  throughout  the  world  on  sustainable 
fisheries  management,  which  helps 
support 
economic  activity  and  healthy  marine  ecosystems 
around  the  world.  The  draft  resolution  plays  an 
important  role 
in  highlighting  achievements  and 
priorities  for  future  progress,  including  with  regard 
to  achieving  sustainable 
implementing 
international  fisheries  agreements,  combating  illegal, 
unreported and unregulated fishing and strengthening 
fisheries governance.
fisheries, 
to 
This  year’s  draft  resolution 
includes  several 
important additions, including in relation to the recent 
conclusion  of  the  Agreement  to  Prevent  Unregulated 
High  Seas  Fisheries  in  the  Central  Arctic  Ocean  and 
the work being done to support implementation of the 
Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter 
and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and  Unregulated 
Fishing.  We  would  also  like  to  note  the  paragraphs 
related to the thirteenth round of informal consultations 
of States parties, which focused on the science-policy 
interface,  and  to  thank  Mr.  Fábio  Hazin  of  Brazil  for 
his leadership and for once again chairing the informal 
consultations of States parties. We think that the new 
approach to the informal consultations of States parties, 
whereby we focus the agenda on a specific issue arising 
from the implementation of the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory 
Fish  Stocks,  should  facilitate  more  substantive  and 
constructive  discussions.  We  look  forward  to  the 
informal consultations to be convened under a similar 
format next year, and encourage robust participation in 
that meeting.
While  we  strongly  support  a  great  deal  of  the 
draft  resolution,  the  United  States  continues  to  have 
significant  concerns  about  certain  paragraphs  in  it, 
in  particular  those  pertaining  to  the  World  Trade 
Organization (WTO) and trade negotiations occurring 
outside  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations.  Language 
in  General  Assembly  texts  on  matters  of  trade  policy 
has no standing for the United States, including for its 
work at the WTO. In particular, the United States notes 
that paragraph 124 contains outdated references to the 
Doha  Development  Agenda.  At  the  tenth  Ministerial 
Conference  of  the  WTO  in  December  2015,  WTO 
members  did  not  reaffirm  the  Doha  Development 
Agenda. WTO members are no longer negotiating under 
that  framework,  and  the  reference  to  Doha  therefore 
has no standing here. The United States has also made 
clear its opposition to paragraph 125, as well as other 
paragraphs that mention the WTO and market access.
It is our view that the United Nations must respect 
the  independent  mandates  of  other  processes  and 
institutions,  including  trade  negotiations,  and  that 
it  must  not  involve  itself  in  decisions  and  actions 
under  way  in  other  forums,  including  the  WTO.  The 
United  Nations  is  not  the  appropriate  venue  for  those 
discussions,  and  there  should  be  no  expectation  or 
misconception  that  the  United  States  would  heed 
language negotiated at the General Assembly on such 
issues.  That  includes  calls  that  undermine  incentives 
for innovation, such as technology transfer that is not 
14/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
voluntary and on mutually agreed terms, including in 
the preamble and in paragraphs 222 and 229.
We  regret  that  consensus  could  not  be  reached 
on  the  need  to  change  those  trade-related  paragraphs 
to  ensure  that  the  draft  resolution  remains  relevant 
and  focused  on  sustainable  fisheries  priorities  under 
the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations.  We  would  like  to 
request that Member States work constructively with us 
to address concerns about trade-related language in any 
such draft resolution next year.
Our  decision  to  join  the  consensus  on  this  draft 
resolution  is  based  on  our  strong  support  for  the  vast 
majority  of  the  non-trade-related  language  that  it 
contains. It also reflects the importance that the United 
States,  as  an  effective  steward  of  the  nation’s  marine 
resources,  a  responsible  flag  State  and  a  leader  in 
regional fisheries management organizations and other 
international forums, places on sustainable fisheries.
The  United  States  looks  forward  to  continuing  to 
work with other nations to address overfishing, combat 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing,  promote 
a  level  playing  field  and  advance  the  key  issues  in 
sustainable  fisheries  management  highlighted  in  the 
draft resolution.
With regard to references to the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development in both draft resolutions, on 
sustainable fisheries and on oceans, we addressed our 
concerns about such references in a general explanation 
of  position  delivered  in  the  Second  Committee  on 
8 November and in an explanation of position regarding 
resolution  73/24,  entitled  “Sport  as  an  enabler  of 
sustainable  development”,  under  agenda  item  12, 
adopted on 3 December (see A/73/PV.44).
With  regard  to  references  to  the  Paris  Climate 
Change Agreement and to the subject of climate change 
in the draft resolutions, we addressed our concerns about 
such references in our general explanation of position 
delivered in the Second Committee on 8 November. We 
note that the United States Administration announced 
its  intention  to  withdraw  from  the  Paris  Agreement 
as  soon  as  it  is  eligible  to  do  so,  consistent  with  the 
terms  of  the  Agreement,  unless  suitable  terms  for 
re-engagement are identified.
In conclusion, we would like to thank Ms. Natalie 
Morris-Sharma  of  Singapore  for  her  outstanding 
coordination of the draft resolution on the oceans, and 
in particular for her encouragement of efforts to update 
and reorganize it. We also greatly appreciate the tireless 
efforts of the coordinator of the informal consultations 
on 
resolution, 
Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway, in effectively guiding 
Member States through the challenging negotiations.
fisheries  draft 
the 
sustainable 
We would also like to thank the Director and staff 
of  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea, and the interpreters, for their expertise, hard work 
and  patience  throughout  the  consultations  on  both 
draft  resolutions.  Finally,  we  would  like  to  express 
our appreciation to delegations for their hard work and 
cooperation in negotiating both draft resolutions. It is 
our hope that this spirit of cooperation will characterize 
our efforts to address the numerous and complex issues 
that lie ahead.
(Iceland):  The 
Ms.  Ellertsdottir 
two  draft 
resolutions  under  discussion  today,  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/73/L.41)  and  oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea  (A/73/L.35),  relate  to  issues  that  are  at  the  core 
of  Iceland’s  economy,  history  and  identity,  indeed  its 
very existence. It is therefore difficult to overstate the 
importance  of  this  topic  for  Iceland  since  the  issues 
addressed  in  these  draft  resolutions  touch  on  central 
issues for Iceland’s foreign, economic and trade policies.
Iceland participated actively in the negotiations on 
the two draft resolutions and we are happy to be among 
their sponsors. We would like to take this opportunity 
to express our thanks to the two coordinators who ably 
guided our discussions, Mr. Andreas Kravik of Norway, 
on  sustainable  fisheries,  and  Ms.  Natalie  Morris-
Sharma of Singapore, on oceans and the law of the sea. 
In  keeping  with  established  practice,  that  work  was 
guided  by  the  principle  of  consensus,  which  may  not 
always appear to be the fastest way forward but remains 
the only safe way to reach our destination. It is therefore 
a  demanding  job  to  coordinate  the  negotiations  and 
both Ms. Morris-Sharma and Mr. Kravik demonstrated 
admirable  tact,  diplomacy  and  wisdom  in  steering  us 
towards a successful outcome.
We would like to note in particular that this year 
we started the important work of streamlining the draft 
resolution  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  Given 
the  importance  of  the  topics  addressed  in  this  draft 
resolution,  we  welcome  this  effort  to  make  it  more 
readable, concise and relevant, and we look forward to 
continuing our work in this regard.
I also want to take this opportunity to express our 
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his reports on 
18-42609
15/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
oceans and the law of the sea (A/73/68 and A/73/368) 
and to the Secretariat in general, and the Division for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea in particular, for 
their valuable work and contributions.
The  mandate  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf  continues  to  be  extremely 
important  and  it  remains  essential  to  ensure  that  the 
Commission’s work is based on thorough deliberations 
and respect for its procedures, and that its conclusions 
are  founded  on  sound  arguments.  In  this  regard, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  gratitude  for 
the  hard  work  and  dedication  of  the  members  of  the 
Commission.  Two  important  developments  related 
to  the  work  of  the  Commission  in  this  year’s  draft 
resolutions are worth highlighting.
First,  the  members  of  the  Commission  have  the 
option  to  join  the  Headquarters  medical  insurance 
scheme,  as  has  already  been  mentioned  here.  The 
working conditions of the Commission have been under 
discussion for a long time and it is our hope that this 
new option will be a positive contribution to that debate.
Secondly, the draft resolution contains the revised 
terms of reference of the trust fund established for the 
purpose of facilitating the preparation of submissions to 
the Commission. The changes to the terms of reference 
will  hopefully  enable  developing  States,  in  particular 
least developed countries and small island developing 
States, to make better use of the trust fund during the 
consideration of their submissions to the Commission. 
We welcome both of these developments, as each in its 
own  way  represents  an  important  contribution  to  the 
further strengthening of Commission’s work.
Over 
the  years 
the  General  Assembly  has 
consistently  highlighted  the  universal  and  unified 
character  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea,  its  strategic  importance  and  the 
contribution  it  makes  to  peace,  security  and  friendly 
relations  among  all  nations.  It  is  worth  emphasixing 
that  this  robust  legal  framework  already  regulates  all 
activities in the oceans. It is complemented by the 1995 
Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the  Provisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation 
and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly 
Migratory Fish Stocks and its provisions on high seas 
fisheries and the regulatory framework for the work of 
regional fisheries management organizations.
We have now embarked on a new, complementary 
process  to  develop  an  international  legally  binding 
instrument,  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, on the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction. Iceland welcomes the formal start 
of these negotiations and we will continue to participate 
in  them  actively  and  constructively.  In  particular,  we 
would  like  to  stress  that  this  process  and  its  result 
should  not  undermine  but  rather  build  on  existing 
legal  instruments  and  frameworks,  especially  the 
Convention and the 1995 Agreement on Fish Stocks. The 
negotiations on the biological diversity of areas beyond 
national jurisdiction are not the appropriate forum for 
reopening issues that have already been already settled. 
My delegation would also like to stress that while the 
issues  under  discussion  are  complex  and  views  differ 
on the appropriate legal framework in which to address 
them, it is imperative to ensure that this work continues 
to be guided by consensus, as it is the only way we can 
achieve universal application of this instrument.
Without a clean, healthy and productive ocean, the 
2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development will be nearly 
impossible  to  attain.  The  sustainable  management  of 
natural  resources  is  fundamental  to  our  success,  and 
where the seas and oceans are concerned, there is great 
potential  for  innovation  and  growth  in  a  number  of 
sectors that could contribute to poverty eradication and 
sustained economic growth.
Climate change and its effects are among the most 
pressing  concerns  of  our  times.  Addressing  climate 
change  is  a  prerequisite  for  healthy  and  sustainable 
oceans. Iceland has already witnessed the consequences 
of  climate  change  —  rising  ocean 
temperatures 
have  influenced  the  migration  patterns  of  our  fish 
stocks  —  and  it  has  therefore  had  a  direct  impact  on 
our policies and our cooperation with other States.
There are few places in which the impact of climate 
change is more evident than the Arctic, where the sea 
ice  is  continuing  to  recede.  Earlier  this  year,  Iceland 
and nine other parties signed the Agreement to Prevent 
Unregulated High Seas Fisheries in the Central Arctic 
Ocean. The Agreement is an example of States adopting 
the  precautionary  approach  in  practice,  as  the  parties 
to  the  Agreement  have  committed  to  refraining  from 
any commercial fishing in the high-seas portion of the 
central Arctic Ocean until a scientific framework and 
proper  management  measures  and  procedures  are  in 
place.  Through  that  commitment,  the  parties  want  to 
16/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use 
of fish stocks in an area where fishing has to date been 
impossible but which is undergoing rapid change.
Ocean  science  must  take  centre  stage  in  the 
debate  on  oceans  and  sustainable  development. 
Iceland  would  therefore  like  to  welcome  the  General 
Assembly’s  decision  last  year  to  proclaim  the  next 
decade  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  Ocean  Science 
for  Sustainable  Development.  We  also  welcome  the 
proposal  in  this  year’s  draft  resolution  to  focus  the 
discussions in next year’s meeting of the Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law 
of the Sea on the theme “Ocean science and the United 
Nations  Decade  of  Ocean  Science  for  Sustainable 
Development”.  We  find  it  particularly  apt  that  the 
Informal Consultative Process will devote its twentieth 
session  to  this  important  cross-cutting  theme  relating 
to all aspects of our work.
My  delegation  looks  forward  to  participating  in 
next  year’s  Informal  Consultative  Process  and  all  the 
other important meetings, events and processes relating 
to oceans and the law of the sea scheduled for next year.
Mr.  Namazu  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  join  other 
speakers 
their 
dedicated work on the two draft resolutions (A/73/L.35 
and A/73/L.41) under agenda item 78, “Oceans and the 
law  of  the  sea”.  Japan  would  also  like  to  express  its 
appreciation for the contributions of our fellow Member 
States and the assistance of the Secretariat.
the  coordinators  for 
thanking 
in 
Japan  underscores  the  importance  of  open  seas 
and  the  rule  of  law  as  part  of  the  foundations  of 
peace  and  security.  We  support  the  universality  of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
which  regulates  freedom  of  navigation  and  freedom 
on  the  high  seas,  the  entitlement  to  the  oceans,  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  protection 
and  preservation  of  the  marine  environment.  We 
believe that it is the responsibility of the international 
community,  which  would  benefit  from  it,  to  promote 
and  develop  an  ever  more  predictable  maritime  order 
under  the  Convention.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  on 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/73/L.35)  confirms 
our  commitment  to  a  rules-based  maritime  order  and 
covers  a  wide  range  of  oceanic  issues,  and  Japan  has 
therefore sponsored it once again.
Japan has been contributing actively to international 
the  Convention, 
them  with  both  human  and  financial 
organizations  established  under 
providing 
resources.  We  appreciate  the  role  of  the  International 
Seabed  Authority.  A  key  part  of  sustainable  seabed 
management is the sharing of skills and knowledge, and 
Japan remains active in that area. To take one example, 
earlier this year a Japanese contractor, the Japan Oil, Gas 
and Metals National Corporation, invited four trainees 
from outside Japan to participate for more than a month 
in a programme that included training at sea. Another 
contractor, Deep Ocean Resources Development, plans 
to offer a similar programme for five trainees next year. 
Japan hopes that these overseas trainees will take full 
advantage of this opportunity and play active roles in 
maritime affairs in their home countries.
Japan  recognizes  the  importance  of  conserving 
the  marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond 
national  jurisdiction.  We  support  the  development 
of  a  well-balanced,  effective,  universal  and  legally 
binding  instrument  under  the  Convention  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity 
of areas beyond national jurisdiction, and have actively 
contributed to discussions to that end, including at the 
ongoing  Intergovernmental  Conference.  In  October 
Japan submitted measures at the fifth Ocean Conference 
on  improving  marine  law-enforcement  capacity  and 
furthering  international  cooperation  and  research  on 
oceanic litter and debris in Asia, among other things. 
Also in October, Japan hosted the Asian-African Legal 
Consultative  Organization’s  annual  session,  where 
we  discussed  the  progress  and  future  development 
of  the  law  of  the  sea  and  marine  order  based  on  the 
Convention, and made a presentation on deep-seabed-
resource development technology developed by Japan.
to 
measures  against  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing,  which 
the  sustainable  use  of 
living  marine  resources.  Last  year  we  acceded  to  the 
Agreement  on  Port  State  Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter 
and  Eliminate  Illegal,  Unreported  and  Unregulated 
Fishing, and we encourage countries that have not yet 
done so to follow suit. Japan is determined to reinforce 
efforts to eradicate illegal, unreported and unregulated 
fishing in cooperation with other countries, including 
through regional fisheries-management organizations.
In conclusion, I want to reiterate Japan’s desire to 
see the draft resolutions before us, which are the result 
of  intensive  and  cooperative  work  by  Member  States, 
duly adopted by the General Assembly.
Finally,  Japan  attaches  great 
importance 
threatens 
18-42609
17/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
Ms. Shareef (Maldives): My delegation welcomes 
the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/73/68  and 
A/73/368)  submitted  under  this  agenda  item,  as  well 
as the two draft resolutions (A/73/L.35 and A/73/L.41), 
which  represent  important  developments  related  to 
oceans and the law of the sea. We also thank Singapore 
and Norway for their able leadership of the consultations 
that led to these texts.
The oceans are under threat. Pollution, overfishing, 
warming temperatures and acidification are threatening 
their  health  and  wealth.  Scientists  have  repeatedly 
warned us that unless there is a dramatic shift in human 
behaviour, we may alter oceanographic processes that 
moderate  the  global  climate.  We  need  to  take  action 
now  to  save  the  oceans,  and  action  against  marine 
plastic  pollution  is  a  good  starting  point.  Owing  to 
recent shifts in production and consumption patterns, 
plastic  pollution  has  become  a  key  challenge  for  our 
generation.  For  a  country  like  the  Maldives,  with 
hundreds  of  islands  and  thousands  of  kilometres  of 
coastline,  marine  plastic  pollution  threatens  the  coral 
reefs,  fish  stocks  and  beaches  that  are  the  lifeblood 
of  our  two  main  industries,  tourism  and  fishing. 
That is why President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih of the 
Maldives launched a campaign against plastic pollution 
within weeks of taking office. The President’s Office, 
the  Foreign  Ministry  and  several  other  Government 
agencies have now banned single-use plastics in their 
offices. The President’s initiative has received support 
from the private sector, especially the tourism industry, 
that  we  believe  is  vital  to  reducing  plastic  pollution 
in  our  country.  But  the  ocean  is  too  vast  for  a  single 
country, especially a small State such as the Maldives, 
to make a dramatic change in marine plastic pollution. 
That  requires  global  cooperation  to  ensure  that  every 
country,  every  region  and  every  community  in  every 
corner of the globe takes action to stop the menace of 
plastic pollution.
Marine  plastic  pollution  is  just  one  dimension  of 
the constellation of threats facing the oceans. The most 
serious  threat  of  all  is  global  warming  and  sea-level 
rise. Global Warming of 1.5°C, the October 2018 special 
report  of  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change (IPCC), suggests there is catastrophic trouble 
ahead for marine ecosystems if we fail to take dramatic 
action immediately to limit global warming to 1.5°C. If 
we can stay below that critical temperature threshold, 
small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  will  have  more 
space for adaptation, but we still face the potential of 
irreversible losses of marine and coastal ecosystems at 
1.5°C. In fact, between 70 and 90 per cent of coral reefs 
will be severely degraded at 1.5°C of warming, and that 
increases to 99 per cent at 2°C. We look forward to the 
findings next year of an extension of the IPCC report 
directly related to ocean systems.
Global warming poses an existential threat for the 
Maldives,  which  is  one  of  the  lowest-lying  countries 
in the world. That is why since 1989 the Maldives has 
persisted in its advocacy for stronger action against sea-
level rise. In November 1989 we hosted the first-ever 
Small States Conference on Sea Level Rise and charted 
a  way  forward  for  mitigating  this  threat.  But  today, 
almost 30 years later, the world has failed to act. We are 
now in a position where we need to seriously evaluate 
the possible legal implications of sea-level rise. It has 
implications for maritime boundaries and internal and 
external  migration  and,  most  important,  it  poses  an 
existential threat to low-lying countries like ours. My 
delegation  therefore  welcomes  this  topic’s  inclusion 
in  the  programme  of  work  of  the  International  Law 
Commission,  and  we  encourage  the  Commission  to 
take it up with urgency.
We can protect and promote the health of the ocean 
only if we are able to regulate the large swathes of deep 
blue ocean waters that are currently ungoverned. The 
Maldives welcomed the convening of the first meeting 
of the Intergovernmental Conference on an international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  which  represents 
a  significant  milestone  in  ocean  governance  and  the 
culmination of decades of groundwork. The Maldives 
engaged constructively in those discussions with a view 
to finalizing the instrument as soon as possible, and we 
are confident that we can reach that goal. We want to 
reiterate the importance of ensuring that it reflects the 
special  circumstances  of  SIDS,  as  other  instruments 
under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea have done.
Our work related to the oceans and the law of the 
sea is only as good as the best available science we have. 
In that regard, it is crucial to promote research in the 
area and to facilitate capacity-building and the transfer 
of marine technology so that developing countries can 
engage in and supplement ongoing efforts effectively. 
The  Maldives  has  been  a  strong  advocate  for  the 
International Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable 
18/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
Development for the period from 2021 to 2030. We take 
note  of  the  progress  that  has  been  made  in  engaging 
stakeholders  to  formulate  plans  and  encourage  all 
Member States to engage constructively in tailoring a 
framework that will deliver country-driven results.
The  world’s  oceans  literally  connect  us  together 
and  sustain  life  as  we  know  it.  From  the  top  of  the 
Himalayas  to  the  sandy  beaches  of  the  Maldives  just 
above  the  sea,  our  future  is  bound  to  the  health  of 
the  marine  environment.  I  ask  everyone  to  join  us  in 
protecting that valuable intergenerational resource.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  My  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
facilitators  of  the  draft  resolutions  on  sustainable 
fisheries  (A/73/L.41)  and  oceans  and  the  law  of  the 
sea  (A/73/L.35)  for  their  work  during  the  rounds 
of  negotiations.  Mexico  has  a  particular  interest  in 
developments in several of the issues addressed in the 
omnibus  draft  resolution,  of  which  I  will  highlight 
some specific aspects.
As a matter of principle, we affirm that the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) 
constitutes  the  international  regulatory  framework 
within  which  all  activities  in  the  oceans  and  seas  are 
conducted  and  which  is  central  to  cooperation  in  the 
marine sector at the national, regional and international 
levels. Its integrity must therefore always be maintained. 
We want to take this opportunity to reiterate Mexico’s 
full  commitment  to  the  sustainable  development  of 
the  oceans  and  seas,  in  accordance  with  Sustainable 
Development Goal 14. To that end, we are working at 
the national level to encourage the use of the oceans and 
seas  for  peaceful  purposes,  ensure  the  equitable  and 
efficient use of their resources and the conservation of 
their living resources and further the study, protection 
and  preservation  of  the  marine  environment,  thereby 
promoting the economic and social advancement of my 
own country and the entire international community.
With  regard  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  marine  biodiversity,  Mexico  would  like  to 
thank Ms. Rena Lee for the successful holding of the 
first  session  of  the  Intergovernmental  Conference  on 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  My 
delegation  eagerly  awaits  the  working  document  that 
the President of the Conference will present to advance 
the negotiations based on a text that will include treaty 
language during the Conference’s second session, to be 
held next year.
I  would  also  like  to  emphasize  the  international 
community’s commitment to the preservation of marine 
ecosystems,  as  reflected  in  Aichi  Biodiversity  Target 
11.  I  am  pleased  to  highlight  the  fact  that  more  than 
22  per  cent  of  Mexico’s  marine  area  is  protected,  far 
exceeding the parameters in Target 11. We nevertheless 
remain  firmly  committed  to  developing  instruments 
and  coordination  mechanisms  for  creating  synergies 
with  other  relevant  actors  and  achieving  even  better 
results in this area.
With  regard  to  marine  scientific  research,  my 
delegation  reiterates  the  importance  of  ramping  up 
our  capacities  and  resources  to  conduct  research  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  UNCLOS  with  a 
view  to  achieving  a  vast  and  high-quality  body  of 
knowledge on the various problems related to the oceans 
and  the  seas.  We  urge  that  the  relevant  international 
organizations improve their cooperation in sharing and 
disseminating information with a view to coordinating 
research efforts.
its 
in  accordance  with 
Mexico  condemns  the  illegal  trade  in  species  via 
the  oceans  and  seas  and  affirms  its  commitment  to 
preventing and halting such activities. My country has 
already adopted legislation to counter illicit trafficking 
in  species 
international 
obligations,  and  we  have  criminalized  it  under  our 
penal  code  in  order  to  ensure  that  we  have  more 
tools  available  to  combat  that  reprehensible  practice 
effectively.  In  accordance  with  our 
international 
obligations  under  a  number  of  instruments,  such  as 
those  of  UNESCO,  the  Convention  on  International 
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora 
and  the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  we  have 
ramped  up  our  efforts  to  preserve  marine  species, 
including  the  vaquita  porpoise.  Mexico  has  taken  a 
number of steps to halt activities affecting that species, 
and we continue to work to find tools that will enable us 
to preserve it, in ongoing cooperation with the relevant 
international organizations.
We  should  not  fail  to  mention  some  of  the  major 
challenges  currently  confronting  our  oceans.  Above 
all, we must redouble our efforts to address the issue of 
pollution  from  land-based  sources,  especially  plastics 
and microplastics. We must also confront the negative 
effects  of  anthropogenic  underwater  noise  on  marine 
18-42609
19/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
ecosystems. Lastly, we want to once again reiterate how 
urgent it is that we deal with the effects of climate change 
and ocean acidification on the marine environment and 
marine  biodiversity  through  measures  that  encourage 
States  to  improve  their  scientific  activities  so  as  to 
have  a  better  understanding  of  those  effects  and  find 
effective ways to adapt.
The  oceans  are  our  planet’s  richest  and  largest 
ecosystem. They are unquestionably humankind’s most 
precious shared heritage. We hope that we can live up 
to the enormous responsibility of caring for them and 
preserving them for the sake of future generations.
Ms.  Alnaser  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  for  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
under agenda item 78 entitled “Oceans and the law of 
the  sea”  (A/73/68),  which  we  have  read  carefully.  It 
stresses that the preservation of the seas, the oceans and 
their resources is crucial to promoting the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, particularly Sustainable 
Development Goal 14. It also includes information on 
the  latest  and  most  important  developments  in  that 
regard,  as  well  as  on  the  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of 
the Sеа at its nineteenth meeting (see A/73/124), which 
discussed the topic of anthropogenic underwater noise.
The  State  of  Kuwait  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea (UNCLOS), which my country has been a party to 
since 1994. We also participated in the amendment of 
the Agreement relating to the Implementation of Part XI 
of UNCLOS and have been a party to the Agreement on 
the Privileges and Immunities of International Tribunal 
for the Law of the Sea since 2002, as well as many other 
international instruments that govern maritime relations 
among States and establish the optimal legal framework 
in  that  area.  In  addition,  my  country  has  participated 
in many United Nations meetings and activities related 
to  the  seas  and  the  oceans,  as  well  as  in  the  periodic 
meetings of the International Maritime Organization.
Accordingly,  the  State  of  Kuwait  calls  on  all 
States  that  are  not  party  to  UNCLOS  to  accede  to  it 
and to other relevant instruments, especially given the 
important role of the Convention in the implementation 
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and in 
strengthening international peace and security.
Maritime  shipping  is  one  of  the  oldest  and  most 
important transport sectors in the world. Threats posed 
to it by illegitimate and criminal activities are a source 
of  major  concern  to  States  and  the  global  business 
community  alike.  The  promotion  of  international 
and  regional  efforts  to  confront  threats  to  maritime 
security,  including  piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea, 
represents the commitment of Member States to protect 
international  shipping  from  such  threats.  My  country 
firmly condemns all illegitimate actions and practices 
that threaten the safety of maritime navigation.
The  current  relatively  low  incidence  of  piracy 
and armed robbery at sea, after a prolonged period of 
continuous attacks, is a positive indication of growing 
stability, especially in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. 
Only two attacks were reported this year off the Somali 
coast. This drop in the number of attacks compared to 
previous  years  is  the  result  of  outcomes  agreed  on  in 
July by the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of 
Somalia and the implementation of its broad mandate, 
which have actively contributed to reducing the attacks 
and the threat that they pose to international peace and 
security at sea.
Mr.  Islam  (Bangladesh):  Bangladesh  joins  other 
delegations  in  thanking  the  coordinators  of  the  two 
draft  resolutions  (A/73/L.35  and  A/73/L.41)  under 
agenda item 78 for their excellent work.
Healthy  oceans  are  critical  to  sustaining  life, 
eliminating  poverty  and  promoting  prosperity  on  the 
planet.  Thanks  to  the  peaceful  settlement  in  2014  of 
maritime border disputes with its neighbours Myanmar 
and India, the Government of Bangladesh has embarked 
on  a  path  to  unlocking  the  potential  of  better  access 
to sea and ocean resources. The blue economy is now 
considered  a  new  development  space  in  Bangladesh. 
Shipping,  seaports,  shipbuilding,  ship 
recycling, 
marine fisheries, production of sea salt, coastal tourism, 
ocean  energy,  land  reclamation,  maritime  safety  and 
surveillance  and  human  resources  development  and 
governance have been identified as key priority areas 
for the development of the blue economy. Those issues 
have been addressed in our Bangladesh Delta Plan 2100, 
recently  established  under  the  visionary  leadership 
of our Prime Minister. We will touch on a number of 
issues from our national point of view.
First, we recall the outcome of the United Nations 
Ocean  Conference,  which  identified  ways  and  means 
to implement Sustainable Development Goal 14 of the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Of  the  10 
targets under Goal 14, six are time-specific and require 
20/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
robust  and  sustained  global  partnerships  to  facilitate 
their  implementation.  In  that  regard,  we  stress  the 
importance of completing the World Trade Organization 
negotiations  to  address  fisheries  subsidies  that  could 
contribute  directly  or  indirectly  to  overcapacity  and 
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
from 
research 
it 
Secondly, 
is  evident 
that 
climate-induced  sea-level 
rise  may  have  severe 
socioeconomic  and  environmental  impacts  on  coastal 
States, including their maritime boundary delimitation. 
We  thank  the  International  Law  Commission  for  its 
recent decision to include the issue of sea-level rise in 
relation to international law in its long-term programme 
of work.
Thirdly,  we  remain  particularly  concerned  about 
large  movements  of  refugees  and  migrants  at  sea, 
mostly  in  perilous  situations.  We  urge  States  to 
comply  with  their  search-and-rescue  obligations  at 
sea  and  to  work  to  address  the  push  and  pull  factors 
underlying  such  irregular  movements.  With  regard  to 
the continuing aftermath of the Rohingya humanitarian 
crisis in Rakhine state that began in August 2017, we 
want  to  draw  the  attention  of  all  the  countries  of  the 
region  concerned  to  the  need  to  strengthen  maritime 
surveillance and interception in coastal areas. We take 
full note of the Secretary-General’s observation in that 
regard  in  his  report  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea 
(see A/73/368, paras. 37-42).
Fourthly,  we  urge  the  Commission  on  the  Limits 
of the Continental Shelf to expedite its work in order 
to  enable  it  to  dispose  of  its  pending  submissions. 
Bangladesh  submitted  its  claims  on  the  continental 
shelf  in  2011  and  later  deposited  updated  baseline 
information  with  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and 
the Law of the Sea pursuant to the relevant provision of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS). We appreciate the amendment of the terms 
of  reference  of  the  trust  fund  created  for  facilitating 
the  preparation  of  submissions  to  the  Commission  by 
developing countries.
Fifthly, we welcome the holding of the first session 
of 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
to  discuss  and 
explore ways and means to reach our goal to elaborate, 
adopt  and  implement  an  international  legally  binding 
instrument  under  UNCLOS  on  the  conservation  and 
sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction.  We  look  forward  to 
commencing work on text-based negotiations to bring 
our work dating back to 2006 to its logical conclusion. 
We thank the Nippon Foundation and the Division for 
Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  organizing 
training for representatives of developing countries.
Finally, capacity-building and the transfer of marine 
technology are of the utmost importance for developing 
States,  in  particular  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs). Among other issues, we draw the attention of 
our development partners to the appropriate utilization 
for  that  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  Technology 
Bank for LDCs.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  UNCLOS  as  the  constitution  of  the 
oceans,  establishing  the  overarching  legal  framework 
within which all activities in the oceans and seas should 
be carried out. We urge all remaining States that have 
not yet done so to join the Convention in order to help 
achieve its universality.
Mr. Umasankar (India): In many ways, the oceans 
support life on Earth. We rely on them for food, energy, 
navigation  purposes  and  employment  opportunities. 
The oceans are interconnected and must be considered 
as  a  whole.  The  emergence  of  ocean  governance 
assumes  that  the  challenges  of  the  ocean  space  are 
closely interrelated and requires all nations to cooperate 
in  the  management  of  the  oceans.  Since  its  adoption, 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS) and the affiliated institutions governing the 
law  of  the  sea  have  played  a  pivotal  role  in  ensuring 
the  harmonious  and  judicious  use  of  ocean  resources 
for humankind.
The 
International 
Seabed  Authority, 
the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf 
established under the Convention are key to the proper 
implementation  of  the  Convention’s  provisions  and  to 
the realization of the benefits we want from the use of 
the  oceans  and  seas.  At  the  same  time,  we  note  that 
our understanding of the oceans and their wide-ranging 
effects on life, as well as the impact of human activities 
on  the  oceans,  are  constantly  evolving  owing  to 
scientific and technical advances. Today we have access 
to some of the deepest parts of the oceans. We thank the 
Secretary-General for his report (A/73/368) on oceans 
and the law of the sea, and other related issues.
States  look  to  ocean  resources  as  a  means  of 
fostering  economic  growth  and  social  advancement, 
and  the  development  of  an  ocean-based  economy 
18-42609
21/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
is  attracting  increased  attention.  Over  the  past  two 
decades  of  its  operation,  the  Convention  has  made  a 
significant contribution to the sustainable development 
of  the  oceans  and  seas  and  to  the  promotion  of  the 
economic  and  social  advancement  of  all  countries  of 
the  world.  In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  Group  of 
Experts of the Regular Process for preparing the draft 
outline of the second world ocean assessment as a single 
comprehensive  assessment,  in  accordance  with  the 
recommendations adopted in August by the eleventh Ad 
Hoc Working Group of the Whole and endorsed by the 
General Assembly. We also welcome the timetable and 
implementation plan prepared by the Group of Experts.
The nineteenth meeting of the Open-ended Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
in  June  provided  a  unique  forum  for  comprehensive 
discussions  on  anthropogenic  underwater  noise, 
facilitating  an  exchange  of  views  among  multiple 
stakeholders 
and 
cooperation among States and the competent agencies. 
We  welcome  the  report  (see  A/73/373)  on  the  work 
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  the 
Regular Process for Global Reporting and Assessment 
of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment,  including 
Socioeconomic Aspects of the Group. We support the 
continuation of that process.
coordination 
and 
improving 
As  a  country  with  a  vast  coastline  of  more  than 
7,500  kilometres,  which  is  home  to  one  third  of  its 
population,  and  with  more  than  1,000  islands,  India 
has a long-standing maritime tradition and an abiding 
interest  in  ocean  affairs.  India  is  the  world’s  third-
largest producer of fish and second-largest producer of 
freshwater fish. We have 12 major ports and about 150 
smaller ones. We are acutely aware of the challenges and 
opportunities  that  oceans  represent,  from  sustainable 
fisheries  to  the  prevention  and  control  of  marine 
litter and plastic pollution, from affordable renewable 
energy  to  ecotourism,  and  as  early-warning  systems 
for disaster risk reduction and management that build 
resilience and adaptation to climate change.
technologies 
for  offshore 
The need for greening the ocean economy is also 
increasing  in  importance.  We  must  work  to  develop 
innovative 
renewable 
energy,  aquaculture,  deep-seabed  mining  and  marine 
technology, which provide new jobs. India is concerned 
about  illegal  fishing  practices  and  crimes  relating  to 
maritime safety and security, including acts of piracy 
and  armed  robbery  at  sea.  We  are  happy  to  actively 
engage with the work of the Contact Group on Piracy 
off  the  Coast  of  Somalia,  which  has  contributed 
significantly  to  controlling  piracy  in  the  Western 
Indian Ocean.
While the 1982 United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea, which was adopted following decades-
long  negotiations,  lays  down  the  basic  framework  for 
international law governing the jurisdiction of coastal 
States over adjacent maritime areas, the governance of 
areas beyond such jurisdiction is becoming increasingly 
important, especially in view of the rapid advancements 
in  technology  and  scientific  understanding.  In  that 
regard,  we  acknowledge  the  convening  of  the  first 
session  of  the  Intergovernmental  Conference  on  an 
international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction 
convened pursuant to resolution 72/249. We take note 
of the substantive discussions that addressed the topics 
identified in the package agreed in 2011 and note that 
the  President  of  the  Conference  will  produce  a  paper 
as part of the preparations for the second session of the 
conference.  The  Intergovernmental  Conference  is  an 
important process that is expected to give shape to the 
global  governance  of  an  aspect  that  is  of  importance 
to everyone.
We  seek  a  future  for  the  Indian  Ocean  that  lives 
up to the theme of “Security and growth for all in the 
region”.  That  vision  was  outlined  by  Prime  Minister 
Modi during his visit to Mauritius in 2015. The Indian 
Ocean Rim Association (IORA) is playing an important 
role in the region in promoting the importance of the 
blue economy as a driver of inclusive and sustainable 
growth and development. India is a founding member 
of IORA, whose first summit meeting, organized last 
year, and recent eighteenth meeting of the Council of 
Ministers, held in South Africa, further emphasized the 
importance of the ocean economy.
India is an active participant in multilateral efforts 
aimed  at  developing  the  collective  management  of 
ocean affairs, and was an early party to the 1982 United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. In addition 
to UNCLOS, India is a party to the Agreement relating 
to  the  Implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the  Convention 
of  10  December  1982;  the  1995  Agreement  for  the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
22/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
Stocks; the International Convention for the Prevention 
of  Pollution  from  Ships,  of  1973,  as  modified  by  the 
Protocol of 1978; the International Convention for the 
Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and 
Sediments of 2004, which protects the seas from invasive 
aquatic alien species; the 1972 London Convention on 
the  Prevention  of  Marine  Pollution  by  Dumping  of 
Wastes  and  Other  Matter;  and  other  agreements  that 
regulate various activities of the oceans, especially the 
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  ocean  resources. 
While the legal regime on the regulation of the oceans 
is  fairly  well  developed,  the  challenges  faced  in  the 
effective implementation of UNCLOS obligations and 
other related agreements are an important area of focus.
Effective  global  partnership  is  essential  if  we 
are  to  enhance  capacity-building,  collaboration  on 
technology, financial assistance and greater awareness 
and  scientific  knowledge  for  the  benefit  of  least 
developed  countries,  developing  countries  and  those 
with special vulnerabilities in order to help them meet 
their international obligations. India cooperates with its 
partners  in  the  region  through  its  membership  of  the 
South Asian Seas Action Plan of 1995, which is serviced 
by  the  secretariat  of  the  South  Asia  Cooperative 
Environment Programme. The main focus of the South 
Asian  Seas  Action  Plan  is  on  integrated  coastal-zone 
management,  oil-spill  contingency  planning,  human 
resource development and the environmental effects of 
land-based activities.
The  Forum  for  India-Pacific  Islands  Cooperation 
aims  to  enhance  cooperation  between  India  and  14 
Pacific  islands  on  issues  such  as  the  blue  economy, 
adaptation and mitigation practices for climate change, 
disaster preparedness and health, and finding practical 
solutions for the nationally determined implementation 
of  contributions.  Last  year,  on  World  Oceans  Day, 
India announced the establishment of the India-United 
Nations  Development  Partnership  Fund,  whose  first 
project focuses on climate resilience for Pacific island 
nations. India has also earmarked $2 million from that 
fund  for  rehabilitation  projects  following  Hurricane 
Irma  in  Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  Hurricane  Maria 
in Dominica.
Three decades ago, India was the first country to 
receive  the  status  of  a  pioneer  investor  in  the  Indian 
Ocean. Indian scientists today collaborate in research 
stations  on  the  Arctic  Ocean,  studying  its  links  with 
the  climate  in  our  own  region.  Indian  hydrographers 
partner in capacity-building efforts with our maritime 
neighbours.  Indian  institutions  work  closely  with 
regional partners in improving early-warning systems 
for  tsunamis  and  cyclones.  Indian  naval  ships  are 
deployed in the delivery of humanitarian assistance and 
emergency evacuation, as well as in patrolling sea lanes 
against pirates. India is firmly committed to protecting 
its  coastal  and  marine  environment,  and  attaches 
special  importance  to  preventing  and  significantly 
reducing marine debris and litter by 2025 through the 
global action and collective efforts of all stakeholders.
In  that  regard,  India  has  launched  a  massive 
campaign,  known  as  Swachh  Bharat  Abhiyan  or 
Clean  India,  to  clean  up  cities  and  villages  and 
rejuvenate its rivers. We have also decided to take on 
the challenge of eliminating all single-use plastics by 
2022. As a major source of plastic debris comes from 
land,  those  campaigns  will  immensely  contribute 
to  reducing  the  flow  of  plastic  into  the  sea.  India  is 
committed  to  the  sustainable  development  of  its  blue 
economy  partnership  in  line  with  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  including  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  14,  pertaining  to  the  conservation 
of  the  oceans.  We  hope  that  we  can  jointly  protect 
and  preserve  the  oceans  in  our  collective  interest  of 
achieving sustainable development.
Mr.  Botto  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, my delegation would like to thank the Secretary-
General for his reports (A/73/68 and A/73/368) and the 
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for 
the superlative support it provides to Member States in 
the  many  complex  and  important  processes  related  to 
the oceans and seas. We also express our sincere thanks 
to the facilitators of the draft resolutions on sustainable 
fisheries (A/73/L.41) and on the oceans and the law of 
the sea (A/73/L.35), which we are about to adopt today 
and of which Monaco is once again a sponsor.
Guided by the vision of His Serene Highness Prince 
Albert II and the conviction that life on Earth depends 
largely on the health of the world’s oceans, we reaffirm 
the Principality of Monaco’s commitment to protecting 
them and to supporting the marine sciences.
Under the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of  the  Sea,  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the 
marine  environment  and  the  prevention,  reduction 
and  control  of  pollution  are  obligations  that  apply  to 
all. Plastic pollution is a real global scourge, given the 
large amount of plastic waste in the ocean and the way 
in which microplastics affect the marine environment 
18-42609
23/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
and  the  entire  food  chain,  including  humans.  Citizen 
involvement  and  partnerships  among  policymakers, 
including  at  the  local  level  and  in  the  private  sector, 
must be encouraged and developed.
In  Monaco,  the  selective  sorting  and  banning  of 
single-use plastic bags and plastic utensils have already 
been  in  place  for  several  years.  At  the  Our  Ocean 
Conference in Bali, half a million dollars was pledged 
in support of the Beyond Plastic Med initiative through 
the  Prince  Albert  II  of  Monaco  Foundation,  which 
launched it with other partners in 2015.
We must consider all kinds of pollution, including 
oil  pollutiond.  In  the  context  of  the  Mediterranean, 
a  semi-enclosed  sea  of  modest  size,  we  must  be 
particularly  vigilant  to  prevent  and  respond  to  any 
disaster.  Under  the  RAMOGE  agreement  between 
France, Italy and Monaco, joint anti-pollution training 
exercises  are  regularly  conducted  to  improve  the 
coordination  and  speed  of  action  of  all  the  relevant 
actors.  The  RAMOGEPOL  Plan  was  also  activated 
during a recent accident.
While  80  per  cent  of  marine  pollution  comes 
from  land-based  sources,  some  ocean  activities  also 
have a significant impact on marine life. For example, 
anthropogenic  underwater  noise,  which  can  be 
generated  by  commercial  shipping,  sonar,  the  use  of 
seismic  airguns,  or  industrial  activities,  particularly 
affects certain species such as marine mammals, fish 
and  migratory  species.  Underwater  noise  can  change 
their  behaviour,  interfere  with  their  communication, 
disorient them and cause them stress and physical harm. 
It  is  also  responsible  for  the  unfortunately  frequent 
stranding  of  cetaceans.  The  work  of  the  nineteenth 
meeting  of  the United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
has been useful in providing more information on that 
issue and we hope that it will lead to greater caution and 
measures to address it.
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  emphasize  that 
climate change and the health of the oceans are directly 
interconnected.  A  warming  of  only  1.5°C  or  2°C 
would have significant negative effects on the marine 
environment.  The  full  and  speedy  implementation 
of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change and  the 
adoption of mitigation measures are therefore vital.
Sea-level rise, which puts at risk the very survival 
of  certain  populations  and  the  territorial  integrity  of 
some  States,  also  raises  purely  legal  issues  that  must 
be  addressed, 
Law Commission.
including  within 
the  International 
Coral  reefs,  which  represent  0.2  per  cent  of  the 
ocean  surface,  are  home  to  up  to  30  per  cent  of  all 
known  marine  species  and  provide  socioeconomic 
benefits to 500 million people. However, studies show 
that 30 per cent of reefs have already been destroyed and 
that others are threatened all over the world by ocean 
acidification and bleaching, both of which are caused 
by increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. That is 
particularly  worrying,  since  2018  is  the International 
Year of the Reef.
The  International  Coral  Reef  Initiative (ICRI) 
General  Meeting  was  held  in  Monaco  from  5  to 
7 December. The ICRI, chaired by Australia, Indonesia 
and Monaco since July, brings together Governments, 
international  organizations,  scientific  bodies  and 
non-governmental  organizations.  The  ICRI  Plan  of 
Action 2018-2020 aims to understand coral reef trends, 
help reduce anthropogenic threats and promote effective 
and adaptable solutions to improve their protection.
In  the  context  of  that  meeting  and  following  the 
visit of His Serene Highness Prince Albert II to Bali in 
October, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Fisheries 
of Indonesia and the Scientific Centre of Monaco signed 
a  letter  of  intent  to  establish  cooperation  on  studying 
the impact of acidification and marine pollution, using 
corals  as  indicators.  That  collaboration  also  seeks  to 
identify, monitor and rehabilitate bleached or damaged 
coral reefs, and to build the capacity of researchers and 
experts  in  that  domain.  In  addition,  I  would  also  like 
to mention the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate  Change,  which  will  present  a  special  report 
on the ocean and cryosphere in a changing climate in 
Monaco in September 2019.
Strengthening  the  role  of  science,  which  must 
guide all political decisions, is Monaco’s other priority 
in  the  area  of  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  In  the 
context of the International Decade of Ocean Science 
for Sustainable Development 2021-2030, my delegation 
welcomes  the  theme  that  has  been  chosen  for  the 
next  meeting  of  the informal  consultative  process, 
in  June  2019.  We  welcome  the  efforts  undertaken  by 
the  Intergovernmental  Oceanographic  Commission  of 
UNESCO, which is coordinating the preparatory phase 
of the Decade. The Commission has already identified 
several challenges, such as the lack of internationally 
recognized  methods  for  estimating  the  economic 
24/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
value  of  ocean  services,  the  difficulty  of  assessing 
the cumulative impacts of climate change and marine 
pollution,  and  our  lack  of  knowledge  with  regard  to 
marine biodiversity.
SDG 14 by 2020. The establishment of a coherent global 
network of ecologically representative, well-connected 
and effectively managed marine protected areas is also 
a way to meet our objectives.
My delegation would also like to acknowledge the 
role  of  the  International  Hydrographic  Organization, 
as  only  5  per  cent  of  the  seabed  has  been  mapped. 
Hydrography  must  be  supported  because  it  benefits 
navigation and the use of marine resources, as well as 
the development and management of coastal areas.
Science will play a crucial role in the implementation 
of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  (SDG)  14  for  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine resources. 
The same is true of the human sciences. The Institute 
for the Economic Law of the Sea, established in Monaco 
in  1985,  organizes  symposiums  and  publishes  many 
works. Its Yearbook of the Law of the Sea contains both 
substantive  articles  and  chronicles,  updated  annually, 
on  legal  instruments,  facts  and  events  concerning 
maritime affairs and the law of the sea. It is the only 
work of its kind in the French language.
The  Ocean  Conference  on  the  implementation  of 
SDG  14  in  2017  and  the  Sustainable  Blue  Economy 
Conference  in  November  provided  opportunities  to 
develop  ambitious  partnerships  and  to  strengthen 
cooperation.  We  welcome  the  many  activities  of  the 
Special Envoy for the Ocean. The establishment of the 
nine  Communities  of  Ocean  Action  and  the  follow-
up  of  the  voluntary  commitments  made  at  the  2017 
Conference  are  essential  to  guiding  our  collective 
action and keeping all stakeholders engaged.
In addition to the obligation to preserve the marine 
environment, on the one hand, and the importance of 
science, on the other, my delegation would also like to 
highlight  the  need  to  establish  effective  and  specific 
partnerships. Combining those three elements, in 2018, 
the  Monaco  Explorations  scientific  campaign  focused 
on  the  study  of  certain  marine  species  and  coral  reef 
health,  the  promotion  of  marine  protected  areas  and 
the fight against pollution and drift nets in Colombia, 
Hawaii, Norway, Martinique and Australia, under the 
motto “reconciling humankind and the sea”.
Marine  protected  areas  are  crucial  tools  for 
preserving biodiversity and the marine environment. In 
particular, they help to protect important environmental 
habitats  and  potentially  endangered  or  vulnerable 
species,  and  to  increase  resilience  to  the  effects  of 
climate  change.  We  should  achieve  target  14.5  of 
In  addition,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  third 
Meeting  of  the  Signatories  to  the  Memorandum  of 
Understanding  on  the  Conservation  of  Migratory 
Sharks,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Conservation  of  Migratory  Species  of  Wild  Animals, 
is  being  held  as  we  speak,  from  10  to  14  December, 
at the Oceanographic Museum of Monaco. Its work, in 
particular  on  species-specific  conservation  measures 
and  the  management  of  the  areas  where  they  live,  as 
well  as  cooperation,  will  undoubtedly  be  interesting 
and productive.
Finally,  I  cannot  conclude  without  reiterating  my 
delegation’s  great  interest  in  the  process  of  drafting 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under 
the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  on  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  The  President  of 
the Intergovernmental Conference on an international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  UNCLOS  on  the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  which 
opened in September, can count on the full support of 
the  Principality  of  Monaco  in  this  complex  but  very 
important task.
(Argentina) 
(spoke 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish): First, let me thank Singapore and Norway for 
leading  the  negotiations  on  the  two  draft  resolutions 
before  the  General  Assembly  today,  A/73/L.35  and 
A/73/L.41.
I  will  now  present  an  abridged  version  of  the 
Argentine Republic’s statement, the full text of which 
will be uploaded to the PaperSmart portal.
As it does every year, my delegation reiterates that 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
has  made  one  of  the  world’s  clearest  contributions  to 
strengthening peace, security, cooperation and friendly 
relations among nations. The Convention is one of our 
international  instruments  with  the  greatest  economic, 
strategic  and  political  impact.  The  objective  of  its 
negotiators was to cover all issues relating to the law 
of  the  sea  through  a  single  instrument.  Accordingly, 
its provisions represent a delicate balance of rights and 
obligations on the part of States. That balance must be 
18-42609
25/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
maintained,  including  in  addressing  new  challenges 
to the law of the sea through the processes established 
within the General Assembly.
The  marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond 
national  jurisdiction  is  currently  one  of  the  most 
important  issues  relating  to  the  law  of  the  sea.  The 
General  Assembly  decided  to  initiate  a  process  to 
regulate  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction  by  developing  a  multilateral  agreement 
under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea. To that end, it has convened an Intergovernmental 
Conference to be held over four sessions.
The  first  session,  which  took  place  in  September 
in a constructive atmosphere, was a positive step that 
paved the way for the development of an initial draft of 
the agreement, which will help to advance negotiations 
during  the  second  round,  scheduled  for  2019.  With 
regard  to  that  process,  my  delegation  reiterates  that 
developing  a  binding  instrument  on  that  issue  should 
not be an end in itself but rather a means to effectively 
regulate  the  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction.
that 
the  problem  of 
Argentina  reiterates 
the  
illicit  trade  in  endangered  species  of  wild  flora  and 
fauna,  including  by  sea,  requires  that  States  comply 
and  cooperate  with  the  rules  of  the  Convention  on 
International  Trade  in  Endangered  Species  of  Wild 
Fauna and Flora in order to suppress such trade.
Argentina  also  appreciates  the  ongoing  work  of 
the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf and would like to once again express its concern 
about its conditions of service. Despite the provisional 
measures, 
including  medical 
coverage, still require a permanent solution. We must 
ensure that the Commission has adequate resources for 
that and conditions of service commensurate with the 
importance of its work.
raised, 
the 
issues 
Argentina also wishes to reiterate its appreciation 
for 
the  contributions  made  by 
the  International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  to  the  development 
of  international  law  in  general,  and  to  the  law  of  the 
sea in particular, as well as to the peaceful settlement 
of disputes.
The conservation and sustainable use of the oceans 
and  their  resources  is  a  critical  issue  for  my  country. 
Argentina  works  constantly  to  foster  knowledge  of 
the  sea,  strengthen  fisheries  regulations,  combat 
illegal fishing, eliminate subsidies in order to prevent 
illegal fishing and overfishing, rebuild fish stocks and 
protect biodiversity.
Our country is actively working towards the goal 
of  conserving  at  least  10  per  cent  of  its  coastal  and 
marine  areas  by  2020,  in  line  with  our  commitment 
under  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14.  In  order  to 
protect and conserve representative marine habitats and 
ecosystems, we have set up a national system of marine 
protected areas. In addition, Law No. 26875 established 
the  Namuncurá-Banco  Burdwood  Marine  Protected 
Area as the only open-sea marine protected area located 
within  the  Argentine  exclusive  economic  zone.  Since 
2016,  a  broad  intersectoral  and  participative  dialogue 
has sought the necessary consensus for a State policy of 
conservation and the prudent use of marine ecosystems.
Marine  debris  is  found  in  all  the  world’s  seas,  at 
all  latitudes  and  depths.  As  a  result,  the  pollution  of 
coastal marine ecosystems and their interactions with 
biodiversity  are  a  complex  multisectoral  problem 
with  global  economic,  social  and  environmental 
implications.  It  is  critical  to  ensure  that  this  problem 
is  addressed  within  the  General  Assembly.  Part  XII 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea is devoted to the protection and preservation of the 
marine  environment  and  includes  specific  provisions 
for the use of the sea and its resources, as well as for 
the conservation of resources, particularly living ones, 
and the preservation of the marine environment. In that 
context, the Federal Environmental Council adopted a 
national action plan for the conservation of sea turtles 
in the Argentine Republic and, within that, a national 
action  programme  to  reduce  the  interaction  of  sea 
turtles with marine debris.
My  country  reiterates  its  concern  about  the  trend 
of  using  General  Assembly  resolutions  to  legitimize 
efforts by regional fisheries management organizations 
to  adopt  measures  that  exceed  their  geographic, 
individual  scope.  Argentina  objects 
material  and 
to  such 
interpretations  of  Assembly  resolutions, 
particularly  with  regard  to  measures  whereby  those 
organizations assume any kind of authority over vessels 
flying  the  flags  of  countries  that  are  not  members  of 
such organizations.
Finally,  Argentina  would 
its 
appreciation to the entire staff of the Division for Ocean 
to  express 
like 
26/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
Affairs and the Law of the Sea for their professionalism, 
seriousness  and  dedication,  as  well  as  the  unsolicited 
assistance  that  they  provide  to  Member  States.  We 
reiterate the importance of ensuring that its resources 
are adequate to fulfilling its mandate.
Mr. Blanchard (Canada) (spoke in French): I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Ms. Natalie Morris-
Sharma and Mr. Andreas Kravik, who ably coordinated 
the informal consultations on the draft resolutions on 
the oceans and the law of the sea (A/73/L.35) and on 
sustainable fisheries (A/73/L.41), respectively.
Canada is committed to championing both national 
and international efforts regarding the oceans and the 
law of the sea. We are pleased to see that major steps 
have  been  taken  over  the  past  year  in  addressing  the 
challenges facing the oceans.
(spoke in English)
Let  me  start  by  highlighting  a  few  areas  where 
States are working together. Here at the United Nations 
we  are  working  hard  to  reach  our  common  objective 
of developing an agreement under the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
of  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  That  is  an 
excellent  example  of  the  international  community 
working  together  to  develop  a  multilateral  tool  to 
better address a truly global set of challenges. We look 
forward to continuing those discussions under the able 
leadership  of  Ambassador  Rena  Lee,  the  President  of 
the Intergovernmental Conference on an international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction.
Just  a  few  weeks  ago,  in  November,  together 
with Kenya and Japan, Canada was proud to host the 
Sustainable Blue Economy Conference, held in Nairobi. 
It  was  the  first  global  conference  on  this  topic,  with 
more than 18,000 registered participants from around 
the world joining in. That  number, and the incredible 
success of the Conference, speaks to the growing global 
desire to build an economy that harnesses the potential 
of our oceans, seas, lakes and rivers to improve the lives 
of all, particularly people in developing States, women, 
youth and indigenous peoples.
I was in Nairobi for the Conference and saw it with my 
own eyes. It was wonderful to see young entrepreneurs 
from  small  island  States  exchanging  knowledge  and 
best  practices  with  people  from  countries  in  Africa, 
Asia and the Americas. It brought people from all over 
the world together on the issue of the blue economy, and 
it  was  done  in  such  a  positive  way  because  everyone 
was talking about the sustainable use of our oceans for 
the economy. Everybody was focused on what we can 
do  with  the  oceans  from  an  economic  point  of  view, 
while at the same time being just as concerned about 
the importance of the sustainability of the oceans. All 
of  us  at  the  United  Nations  should  be  proud  of  that 
event, because it really was multilateralism at its best, 
working  to  deal  with  concrete  issues  that  we  are  all 
facing together.
to  show 
Let me now turn to the nineteenth meeting of the
United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative 
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, at which we 
discussed  anthropogenic  underwater  noise.  Scientific 
evidence  continues 
that  anthropogenic 
underwater  noise  can  be  a  stressor  for  many  marine 
species. Commercial shipping is one of its sources. In 
addition to the efforts being undertaken in the Marine 
Environment Protection Committee of the International 
Maritime  Organization  (IMO),  in  January  Canada 
will  be  partnering  with  the  IMO  to  host  a  technical 
workshop  to  spur  innovation  for  quiet  ship  design 
in  order  to  reduce  noise  and  ultimately  improve  the 
marine environment.
At the regional level, Canada signed the Agreement 
to  Prevent  Unregulated  High  Seas  Fisheries  in  the 
Central Arctic Ocean. As an Arctic Ocean coastal State, 
we are proud to have signed that historic, legally binding 
agreement  and  to  be  serving  as  its  future  depositary. 
It  is  the  first  time  an  international  agreement  of  that 
magnitude  has  been  reached  before  any  commercial 
fishing  has  taken  place  in  an  area  of  the  high  seas. 
The Agreement will also establish a joint programme 
of  scientific  research  and  monitoring  to  improve 
understanding of the area’s ecosystems and determine 
whether fish can be harvested on a sustainable basis.
Canada’s  commitment  to  the  oceans  has  been 
reflected  in  the  importance  given  to  ocean  issues 
during  its  Group  of  Seven  (G-7)  presidency.  Under 
our  presidency,  small  island  States  and  African  and 
South-East Asian coastal States joined the G-7 member 
countries  to  discuss  key  challenges  and  common 
objectives. Advancing gender equality, engaging young 
people  and  promoting  innovation  have  also  played  an 
important  part  in  Canada’s  G-7  focus  on  the  oceans. 
18-42609
27/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
One  noteworthy  result  of  our  conversations  is  the 
Charlevoix  Blueprint  for  Healthy  Oceans,  Seas  and 
Resilient Coastal Communities. It includes the Ocean 
Plastics Charter, which speaks to our common resolve 
to eradicate plastic pollution, a significant threat to our 
oceans.
I want all who are taking notes today and listening to 
me to give me their attention for 10 seconds. If they take 
only one thing back to their capitals from my statement, 
it  is  to  ask  their  countries  to  sign  and  adhere  to  the 
Ocean Plastics Charter, as many countries have already 
done.  I  encourage  them  to  do  because  it  represents  a 
commitment by Member States to genuinely abiding by 
principles regarding plastics in our oceans, and it is by 
showing that kind of commitment that together, through 
our multilateralism, we can influence the behaviour of 
our peoples worldwide and actually take the plastic out 
of our oceans. It is very important, so if there is only 
one  thing  to  remember  from  my  statement,  that  is  it. 
I ask people to go back to their capitals and ask them 
to  consider  joining  the  Ocean  Plastics  Charter,  which 
benefits the entire world. Some island States, such as 
the Marshall Islands, recently signed up to it, as have 
many other countries in the past few weeks.
Let  me  briefly  touch  on  two  domestic  initiatives 
to address ocean challenges in Canada. With regard to 
marine conservation targets, Canada continues to make 
steady  progress  towards  achieving  its  commitment  of 
conserving 10 per cent of its marine and coastal areas 
by  2020,  as  agreed  at  the  international  level.  Canada 
has also exceeded its self-imposed 5 per cent target for 
2017. Considering that Canada has the world’s longest 
coastline, that is no small endeavour. More importantly, 
we  have  learned  many  vital  lessons  along  the  way, 
which we hope can help the efforts of others.
Canada  is  also  implementing  an  ocean  protection 
plan, designed to improve marine safety and responsible 
shipping, protect our marine environment and offer new 
possibilities  for  indigenous  and  coastal  communities. 
And  we  have  introduced  a  whale  initiative,  which 
includes  substantive  measures  to  protect  endangered 
whale  species  such  as  the  southern  resident  killer 
whale, a vital component of the local marine ecosystem 
off the British Columbia coast.
(spoke in French)
Despite all the progress that has been made at the 
international  level  and  in  Canada,  there  is  still  work 
to be done to overcome the complex challenges facing 
our  oceans,  some  of  which  are  the  result  of  climate 
change.  No  one  country  has  all  the  answers,  and  we 
firmly  believe  that  only  by  working  together  will  we 
succeed  in  finding  solutions.  Canada  can  be  relied 
on  as  an  active  partner  in  collaborating  to  deliver 
meaningful results on oceans with a view to building 
a peaceful, more inclusive and more prosperous world, 
while Canada’s candidacy for a non-permanent seat on 
the Security Council for a term from 2021 to 2022 is 
another demonstration of our commitment to working 
to achieve those objectives together.
Mr.  Fernández  de  Soto  Valderrama  (Colombia) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Colombian  delegation  would 
like  to  express  sincere  thanks  to  Ms.  Natalie  Morris-
Sharma of Singapore and Mr. Andreas Motzfeldt Kravik 
of  Norway  for  their  exemplary  work  as  facilitators 
for the draft resolutions on oceans and the law of the 
sea  (A/73/L.35)  and  sustainable  fishing  (A/73/L.41), 
respectively. Since they took on that role they have led 
the discussions with dignity and transparency and in a 
constructive spirit that is reflected in the texts we have 
before us today.
Colombia is a nation with coastlines on the Atlantic 
and Pacific Oceans whose biological and geographical 
conditions make for broadly diverse marine and coastal 
ecosystems. The health of those ecosystems depends not 
only on consistent and responsible national management, 
but  also  on  the  way  that  other  countries  that  have  an 
effect on the oceans conduct their own management. As 
a very diverse country, Colombia is committed to the 
conservation,  protection  and  sustainable  development 
of  those  ecosystems  through  the  implementation  of 
policies, plans and programmes that attest to the issue’s 
national,  regional  and  global  importance.  In  addition, 
we have major institutions for marine and coastal issues, 
guided by a comprehensive vision in which the sea, the 
coast and their resources constitute essential elements 
of  our  actions.  My  delegation  therefore  reaffirms 
its  commitment  to  the  development  and  sustainable 
management of its fisheries resources in order to build 
not  only  a  sustainable  country  but  also  sustainable 
fisheries  at  the  global  level,  thereby  guaranteeing 
access to fishing resources for future generations.
It is in keeping with that commitment that Colombia 
recognizes the valuable contribution represented by the 
draft resolutions on the oceans and the law of the sea 
and  sustainable  fisheries.  However,  we  note  that  they 
both contain wording that the Colombian Government 
does not share with regard to the 1982 United Nations 
28/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), such as 
the  opinion  that  the  Convention  is  the  sole  normative 
framework  for  regulating  activities  carried  out  in 
the oceans.
Colombia  conducts  its  activities  in  the  marine 
environment  in  strict  compliance  with  the  various 
international commitments that it has expressly adopted 
or accepted, and takes this opportunity to reiterate that 
it has not ratified UNCLOS, which is why none of its 
provisions,  except  those  that  Colombia  has  expressly 
accepted,  are  enforceable  or  opposable.  Colombia 
therefore understands that today’s draft resolution and 
our  participation  in  its  adoption  process  cannot  be 
considered or interpreted in a manner that implies the 
express or tacit acceptance by the Colombian State of 
the provisions contained in UNCLOS. The constructive 
spirit that guides our country on the issues of oceans 
and the law of the sea is based on the firm belief that 
all nations have a commitment to the protection of the 
sea  and  its  resources  and  that  the  sustainable  future 
of the world largely depends on that fact. Colombia is 
prepared to work in cooperation with other nations to 
confront  the  challenges  of  maintaining  the  health  of 
the oceans. For those reasons, Colombia expresses its 
reservations  about  any  mention  of  the  Convention  in 
the relevant draft resolution, and reiterates that it does 
not consider itself bound by its content.
Mr.  Kpayedo  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  Togo 
notes  and  welcomes  the  high  quality  of  the  various 
substantive  reports  (A/73/68  and  A/73/368)  submitted 
to  the  Assembly  by  the  Secretary-General  under 
sub-item (a) of agenda item 78, on oceans and the law 
of the sea, in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS) and General Assembly resolution 72/73.
As  the  report  contained  in  document  A/73/368 
rightly emphasizes, the oceans, the lungs of the world 
and the providers of most of the Earth’s oxygen, play an 
essential role in daily life, as they are critical to many 
key  areas  such  as  food  security,  livelihoods,  tourism, 
transport  and  climate  regulation.  As  a  result,  coastal 
communities,  particularly 
least  developed 
countries and small island States, are highly dependent 
on  them,  since  the  oceans  help  to  eliminate  poverty 
and  contribute  to  local  development,  and  form  the 
foundations of a sustainable marine economy.
the 
in 
Togo,  which  is  party  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 
in 
intersectoral  manner 
and  the  Agreement  relating  to  the  implementation  of 
Part XI of the Convention, among other instruments, has 
always attached particular importance to ocean issues, 
which  the  Government  addresses  in  an  integrated, 
interdisciplinary  and 
the 
context of the implementation of the Convention. That 
is why, taking into account the challenges related to the 
preservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  resources 
under  its  national  jurisdiction,  my  country  created 
by  presidential  decree  a  national  authority  for  State 
action at sea, whose mission is to strengthen the action 
of  public  institutions  and  coordinate  all  intersectoral 
efforts  with  the  aim  of  preserving  Togo’s  maritime 
interests. That body includes our High Council for the 
Sea, an excellent framework that defines the guidelines 
for  our  country’s  maritime  policy  under  the  authority 
of  the  President  of  the  Republic  and  whose  strategic 
decisions are implemented by our Maritime Prefecture.
the  successful  holding,  from 
4  to  17  September,  of  the  first  session  of  the 
Intergovernmental  Conference  on  an  international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction. My country, which 
took an active part in the session, intends to maintain 
its commitment during the two sessions scheduled for 
2019 in order to ensure the development and finalization 
of an ambitious instrument in 2020 as the outcome of 
that important process.
Togo  welcomes 
While  already  engaged  in  the  first  cycle,  my 
country  is  also  committed  to  the  second  cycle  of  the 
Regular Process for Global Reporting and Assessment 
of  the  State  of  the  Marine  Environment,  including 
Socioeconomic Aspects. As a result, in May, in response 
to the Assembly’s invitation in paragraphs 312 and 315 
of  resolution  72/73,  Togo,  which  has  a  national  focal 
point,  appointed  five  experts  to  the  Pool  of  Experts, 
some of whom participated in the regional workshops 
held  in  2018  in  Palau  and  Ghana.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  would  like  to  acknowledge  and  commend 
the contribution of the Division for Ocean Affairs and 
the Law of the Sea of the Office of Legal Affairs during 
those and many other ongoing processes, as well as its 
multifaceted assistance to Member States, especially in 
the  area  of  capacity-building  in  the  organization  and 
management of various fellowships that have benefited 
several officials from our national Administration.
18-42609
29/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
Togo  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
during the consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 
78  to  commend  and  support  the  International  Seabed 
Authority  and  the International  Tribunal  for  the  Law 
of the Sea for the work they have accomplished within 
their respective mandates.
Believing  as  we  do  that  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  our  oceans,  seas  and  marine 
resources  are  crucial  to  sustainable  development, 
Togo  sponsored  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on  the 
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/73/L.35),  which  has 
just  been  eloquently  introduced  by  the  representative 
of  Singapore,  and  as  in  the  past,  will  naturally  vote 
in  favour  of  it.  In  particular,  we  welcome  the  draft’s 
continued  inclusion  of  paragraph  120,  in  which  the 
General Assembly welcomes the adoption in Lomé, on 
15 October 2016, of the Charter on Maritime Security 
and Safety and Development in Africa by the African 
Union’s  Extraordinary  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  on  Maritime  Security  and  Safety  and 
Development  in  Africa.  Togo  has  ratified  the  Charter 
and  invites  the  other  member  States  in  our  region  to 
accede to this important legal instrument, whose entry 
into force within a reasonable time frame will enable 
the African continent, among other things, to prevent 
and punish national and transnational crime, including 
piracy,  armed  robbery  against  ships,  the  smuggling 
of  migrants,  trafficking  in  persons  and  related  illegal 
trafficking of all kinds at sea.
In addition, on 21 September, in accordance with 
part  VI,  article  76,  paragraph  8  of  UNCLOS,  Togo 
and  Benin  submitted  to  the  Secretary-General  a  joint 
request  to  extend  their  respective  continental  shelves 
beyond 200 nautical miles. In that regard, my delegation 
is  pleased  to  note  that  the  draft  resolution  for  the 
seventy-third session now provides that coastal States, 
especially  developing  ones,  can  request  financial  and 
technical assistance from the trust fund in the context 
of  the  submission  of  new  or  revised  requests,  and 
welcomes the improvement whereby the draft resolution 
makes  it  possible  for  members  of  the Commission  on 
the Limits of the Continental Shelf to join the United 
Nations health insurance plan on an exceptional basis.
In conclusion, my country continues to believe that 
the implementation of the Convention is essential to the 
sustainable and peaceful development of the oceans and 
their resources, as well as for meeting the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  set  out  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, particularly Goal 14, whose 
eventual  achievement  will  help  to  end  poverty  and 
ensure  sustained  economic  growth  and  food  security 
while creating sustainable livelihoods and decent jobs.
Mrs.  Horbachova  (Ukraine):  The  delegation  of 
Ukraine  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by 
the observer of the European Union. We would also like 
to make a statement in our national capacity.
Today  Ukraine  is  pleased  to  join  many  others  in 
sponsoring draft resolutions A/73/L.35 and A/73/L.41, 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  sustainable 
fisheries,  respectively.  We  commend  the  facilitators’ 
exemplary leadership throughout the process.
The marine environment continues to be a matter 
of  serious  concern  due  to  climate  change,  marine- 
and 
land-based  human  activities,  marine  debris, 
overfishing  and  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing,  all  of  which  burden  marine  ecosystems  and 
lead  to  their  gradual  degradation.  It  is  therefore  vital 
to ensure that the international community pays more 
attention to those problems and takes concrete steps to 
address them. In that regard, we would like to echo the 
Secretary-General’s latest report (A/73/368) on oceans 
and the law of the sea, which emphasizes that Member 
States must greatly intensify their efforts if we are to 
achieve the targets of Sustainable Development Goal 14, 
including  through  enhanced  international  cooperation 
and coordination, as well as increased capacity-building 
and  transfers  of  technology  to  developing  States.  For 
such efforts to be cohesive, effective and long-lasting, 
they must be undertaken within the context of the legal 
framework  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
We  acknowledge  the  need  for  enhancing  ocean 
governance  as  a  cornerstone  in  the  preservation  and 
protection of the marine environment and biodiversity, 
as  well  as  in  ensuring  peaceful  relations  among 
States. Ukraine is committed to achieving healthy and 
productive  oceans  and  seas  so  that  they  can  continue 
to  support  sustainable  development  for  the  good  of 
all  humankind.  We  fully  respect  all  of  UNCLOS’s 
provisions  and  are  implementing  them  in  good  faith. 
Under  the  Convention,  Ukraine  has  exclusive  rights 
to  the  living  resources  within  its  territorial  sea  and 
exclusive  economic  zone.  Since  2014,  the  Russian 
Federation  has  deliberately  and  blatantly  violated 
those rights in the Black Sea, the Sea of Azov and the 
Kerch Strait.
30/32 
18-42609
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.49
The  Convention  requires  its  States  parties  to  use 
peaceful  means  to  settle  any  dispute  between  them 
concerning its interpretation or application. Consistent 
with Article 33 of the Charter of the United Nations and 
article 279 of UNCLOS, Ukraine has sought to resolve 
its dispute with Russia peacefully. In that connection, 
I would like to update the Assembly on the arbitration 
proceedings instituted by Ukraine against the Russian 
Federation. On 16 September 2016, Ukraine served on 
the  Russian  Federation  a  notification  and  statement 
of  claim  under  annex  VII  to  UNCLOS  referring  to  a 
dispute  concerning  coastal  State  rights  in  the  Black 
Sea, the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait.
On  19  February  of  this  year,  Ukraine  filed  a 
memorial through the Permanent Court of Arbitration 
with the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea 
establishing  that  Russia  violated  Ukraine’s  sovereign 
rights in the Black Sea, the Sea of Azov and the Kerch 
Strait.  The  memorial asserts  that  since  2014,  Russia 
has  unlawfully  prevented  Ukraine  from  exercising 
its  maritime  rights,  exploited  Ukraine’s  sovereign 
resources  for  its  own  ends  and  usurped  Ukraine’s 
right  to  regulate  its  own  maritime  areas.  Through 
these violations of international law, Russia is stealing 
Ukraine’s energy and fisheries resources, harming the 
livelihoods of Ukrainian fishermen and blocking traffic 
to Ukrainian ports with its illegal bridge over the Kerch 
Strait, among other serious violations.
On  31  August,  the  Tribunal  hearing  Ukraine’s 
case  against  the  Russian  Federation  under  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  published 
a  procedural  order  determining  that  it  would  rule  on 
certain jurisdictional objections raised by the Russian 
Federation in a preliminary phase of the proceedings. 
Ukraine does not believe that the Russian Federation’s 
jurisdictional  objections  are  plausible  or  that  they 
will  be  accepted  by  the  Court.  On  27  November, 
Ukraine  filed  its  written  observations  on  Russia’s 
preliminary objections.
Unfortunately, the reality today is that Russia has 
continued  its  unlawful  actions  in  the  Black  Sea,  the 
Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait, and has escalated its 
dispute with Ukraine. Through its illegal construction 
of a bridge across the Strait, Russia violated numerous 
provisions of UNCLOS, including those pertaining to 
Ukraine’s  rights  in  its  territorial  sea  and  to  Russia’s 
obligations to protect the marine environment and not 
to  impede  transit  passage  through  the  Kerch  Strait,  a 
narrow, busy stretch of water connecting the Black Sea 
to the Sea of Azov and to Ukraine’s ports at Mariupol 
and  Berdyansk.  Moreover,  since  29  April,  Russia  has 
engaged in a new campaign to interfere with Ukraine’s 
rights  in  the  Sea  of  Azov  by  stopping  vessels  in  the 
Kerch Strait and the Sea of Azov. In the relatively short 
period  since  then,  more  than  200  vessels  have  been 
discriminatorily stopped by Russia, in violation of its 
fundamental obligation under UNCLOS not to hamper 
or impede transit passage through an international strait. 
The Russian Federation has not ceased its activities and 
instead has engaged in new and flagrant violations of 
UNCLOS. Just two weeks ago, it attacked, seized and 
detained Ukrainian naval vessels in Ukraine’s exclusive 
economic zone.
On  27  November,  in  a  letter  submitted  to  the 
Tribunal,  Ukraine  described  Russia’s  ongoing  pattern 
of  harassment  against  Ukrainian  and  international 
vessels  seeking  passage  through  the  Kerch  Strait 
to  Mariupol,  Berdyansk  and  other  Ukrainian  ports. 
Russia’s actions actively closed the Kerch Strait to all 
vessels,  resulting  in  protests  not  only  from  Ukraine 
but also from authorities representing other Black Sea 
littoral  States.  The  European  Union  and  Turkey  both 
insist on their right to free passage through the Strait. 
Ukraine  believes  that  Russia  must  and  will  be  held 
accountable for its serious breaches of the international 
law of the sea.
The  Russian  Federation  is  pursuing  a  policy  of 
legitimizing  its  attempted  annexation  of  Crimea  by 
using various subversive tactics and strategies. One of 
them is through the International Maritime Organization 
(IMO). Russia’s claim that it has responsibility for the 
implementation of International Maritime Organization 
instruments  in  the  maritime  areas  adjacent  to  the 
Crimean peninsula cannot be regarded as constituting a 
basis for a proper implementation of IMO instruments, 
and  can  have  no  legal  consequences.  Furthermore, 
Russia’s  reckless  unilateral  actions,  such  as  unlawful 
practices  regarding  the  certification  of  seafarers  and 
the  registration  of  ships  in  occupied  Crimea,  and  its 
attempts  to  assert  control  over  Ukraine’s  search-and-
rescue assets in the occupied Crimea, have turned the 
northern  part  of  the  Black  Sea  into  a  grey  zone  for 
international shipping.
Ukraine  has  provided  detailed  reports  on  a 
semi-annual  basis  since  1  January  2017  on  threats  to 
the  safety  and  security  of  navigation  in  the  maritime 
areas adjacent to the temporarily occupied Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, Ukraine, 
18-42609
31/32
A/73/PV.49 
11/12/2018
which have been circulated by the IMO Secretariat in 
accordance  with  a  decision  of  the  Maritime  Safety 
Committee.  Given  the  significant  uncertainty  of  the 
situation and its considerable implications for the safety 
and security of navigation, Ukraine strongly urges all 
States  to  ensure  that  ships  entitled  to  fly  their  flag 
take those reports into account when operating in the 
northern  part  of  the  Black  Sea.  Ukraine  further  calls 
on all States and international organizations to refrain 
from any action or dealings that might be interpreted 
as  recognizing  the  unilateral  actions  of  the  Russian 
Federation that have precluded Ukraine from carrying 
out 
international  obligations  under  applicable 
treaties and conventional instruments.
its 
The  ability  of  States  to  maximize  the  benefits  of 
the oceans and seas and develop a sustainable ocean-
based economy depends on maintaining and enhancing 
the security of maritime spaces. We therefore condemn 
piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea, 
transnational 
organized crime and terrorism in the maritime domain, 
trafficking  in  persons,  the  smuggling  of  migrants, 
and  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  and 
other maritime activities that threaten global stability, 
security  and  prosperity.  In  that  regard,  we  strongly 
believe  that  a  coordinated  and  integrated  approach 
to  all  ocean-related  issues  at  the  global,  regional  and 
national level is imperative.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude  to  the  Secretariat  and  to  the  Division  for 
Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  their  work 
and constant support throughout the year.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
32/32 
18-42609
