United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
42nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 29 November 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.42
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m.
Agenda item 39
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(А/73/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (А/73/346)
Note by the Secretary-General (А/73/201)
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.31, A/73/L.32, 
А/73/L.33 and А/73/L.34)
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor  to  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Senegal,  in 
his capacity as Chair of the Committee on the Exercise 
of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People, 
to  introduce  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.31,  A/73/L.32, 
A/73/L.33 and A/73/L.34.
Mr. Niang (Senegal) (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People, I would like to reiterate 
to you, Madam President, our deep gratitude for your 
outstanding  personal  participation 
in  yesterday’s 
special  meeting  in  observance  of  the  International 
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People  (see 
A/AC.183/PV.393).  The  members  of  the  Committee 
particularly  appreciated  the  far-reaching  message  you 
sent to the international community, urging it to work 
to translate solidarity with the Palestinian people into 
concrete action.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres,  the  representatives  of  civil  society 
and, above all, the Member States for their exceptional 
efforts to mobilize on this issue, including at the level of 
the Permanent Representatives. In a worrying context, 
marked in particular by the absence of a clear political 
horizon, that mobilization is eloquent testimony to the 
international  community’s  continued  commitment  to 
a  two-State  solution,  with  Israel  and  Palestine  living 
side by side, in peace and security, within the pre-1967 
borders,  and  with  East  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  a 
State of Palestine.
In accordance with the mandate conferred on it by 
the Assembly, the Committee, for its part, will continue 
to  work  with  all  actors,  particularly  Member  States, 
international  organizations  and  civil  society,  to  keep 
the  Palestinian  question  on  the  international  agenda 
until the Palestinian people, like the Israeli people, can 
fully  exercise  their  inalienable  rights,  including  the 
right  to  self-determination  and  autonomy.  Of  course, 
the peace that we all want can be achieved only with the 
will and involvement of the parties to the dispute — the 
Israelis and Palestinians — who alone, in the end, can 
work  towards  a  definitive  solution  that  guarantees 
security, cooperation and prosperity. In this regard, the 
Committee  encourages  the  ongoing  efforts  to  restore 
unity  among  Palestinian  political  actors  in  order  to 
enable them to take charge of their people’s aspirations 
to dignity and justice.
I  will  now  proceed  to  introduce  the  four  draft 
resolutions under agenda item 39, contained in documents 
A/73/L.31, A/73/L.32, A/73/L.33 and A/73/L.34. In that 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-40195 (E)
*1840195*
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
regard, I am pleased to report that the Committee has 
already  adopted  these  draft  resolutions  by  consensus, 
following consultations with the regional groups. The 
draft resolutions relate, first, to the peaceful settlement 
of the question of Palestine; secondly, to the mandate 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People; thirdly, to the work of 
the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat; 
and  fourthly,  to  the  special  information  programme 
on  the  question  of  Palestine  of  the  Department  of 
Public Information.
to 
With  regard 
the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”, 
contained  in  document  A/73/L.32,  the  Assembly, 
guided by paragraph 5 of Security Council resolution 
2334 (2016), urges States in paragraph 24 of the draft
into  account 
“(a)  [N]ot  to  recognize  any  changes  to  the  pre-
1967 borders, including with regard to Jerusalem, 
other  than  those  agreed  by  the  parties  through 
negotiations;  (b)  To  distinguish,  in  their  relevant 
dealings,  between  the  territory  of  the  State  of 
Israel  and  the  territories  occupied  since  1967; 
(c)  Not  to  render  aid  or  assistance  to  illegal 
settlement activities”.
In  addition, 
taking 
the  fiftieth 
anniversary of the Israeli occupation and the seventieth 
anniversary of resolution 181 (II), of 29 November 1947, 
the  Assembly,  in  draft  resolution  A/73/L.31,  requests 
our Committee, among other things, to ensure that the 
international  community  redoubles  its  efforts  aimed 
at  achieving  a  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question 
of  Palestine.  In  this  respect,  it  is  important  to  work 
towards  an  expanded  multilateral  framework  with  a 
view to relaunching the peace process, which has been 
stalled  since  2014.  In  this  regard,  Governments  and 
other  international  organizations  are  invited  to  assist 
the Committee in implementing its mandate.
In draft resolution A/73/L.34, the Assembly renews 
the  mandate  of  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  of 
the  Secretariat  and  requests  that  it  continue  to  assist 
the Committee in the exercise of its mandate and in its 
contribution  to  raising  international  public  awareness 
of the question of Palestine.
Finally, 
the  draft 
the  special 
information  programme  on  the  question  of  Palestine, 
contained 
the 
Department  of  Public  Information  to  continue  to 
in  document  A/73/L.33,  calls  on 
resolution  on 
involve the media in efforts to achieve peace between 
Palestinians and Israelis.
In view of the foregoing, the Committee, through 
me, urges Member States to continue to give their full 
support to these draft resolutions, as they have done in 
the past, with a view to sending a message of hope to 
the Palestinian people, who still continue to have faith 
in the work of the United Nations.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  give 
the  floor  to  the  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People to introduce the Committee’s report.
Mr. Inguanez (Malta): It is an honour for me, in my 
capacity as Rapporteur of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, to 
present to the General Assembly the annual report of 
the  Committee,  contained  in  document  A/73/35.  The 
report  covers  developments  relating  to  the  question 
of  Palestine  and  details  the  work  of  the  Committee 
between 6 September 2017 and 4 September 2018.
The report is organized into seven chapters. Chapter 
I  contains  an  introduction  to  the  report.  Chapter  II 
consists of a review by the Committee of the political 
context relating to the question of Palestine during the 
reporting period. Chapters III and IV of the report outline 
the mandate entrusted to the Committee by the General 
Assembly and contain information on the organization 
of  the  Committee’s  work  during  the  review  period. 
Chapter V covers the action taken by the Committee, 
including the Chair’s participation in Security Council 
debates and the Committee’s continuing dialogue with 
intergovernmental and civil-society organizations. The 
chapter  also  describes  the  international  conferences 
organized by the Committee, visits by the Committee’s 
delegation, and other mandated activities carried out by 
the Division for Palestinian Rights. Chapter VI provides 
an overview of the special information programme on 
the question of Palestine carried out by the Department 
of Public Information pursuant to resolution 72/12, of 
30 November 2017. Chapter VII of the report contains 
the Committee’s conclusions and recommendations to 
the General Assembly.
the 
Recalling 
that  2018  marks 
seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  displacement  of  Palestine  refugees 
from  their  homeland  in  1948,  remembered  as  the 
Nakba, or “catastrophe”, and the fifty-first anniversary 
of  the  Israeli  occupation,  the  Committee  urges  the 
international  community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to  
2/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
achieve a two-State solution based on the 1967 borders, 
in  accordance  with  international  law,  the  relevant 
United Nations resolutions, the Madrid principles, the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the road map of the Quartet.
The  Committee  deems  null  and  void  unilateral 
decisions  by  Member  States  to  recognize  Jerusalem 
as the capital of Israel and transfer embassies in Israel 
from  Tel  Aviv  to  Jerusalem,  and  calls  on  them  to 
rescind those decisions. It reiterates the need to reframe 
the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  from  a 
territorial 
dispute between two equal parties to that of one State 
occupying,  colonizing  and  annexing  the  territory  of 
another  State.  It  supports  revising  the  existing  model 
of bilateral negotiations into an expanded multilateral 
framework  and  welcomes 
the  eight-point  plan 
presented  to  the  Security  Council  on  20  February  by 
President  Mahmoud  Abbas  of  the  State  of  Palestine. 
The Committee encourages and offers its support to all 
efforts to advance intra-Palestinian unity, calls on the 
international community to shift from a humanitarian 
to a political and human rights framework in addressing 
the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  demands  an 
end to the 11-year-old Israeli air, land and sea blockade 
of Gaza.
The  Committee  urges  the  Security  Council  and 
the  General  Assembly  to  ensure  accountability  and 
the implementation of their long-standing resolutions, 
including Security Council resolution 2334 (2016). The 
Committee  underscores  the  responsibility  of  States 
and  private  entities  not  to  contribute  to  grave  Israeli 
violations  of  Palestinian  human  rights,  particularly 
with respect to settlements in the occupied Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  It  looks  forward 
to the expedited operationalization of the database on 
business  enterprises  involved  in  activities  connected 
with Israeli settlements, as mandated by Human Rights 
Council resolution 31/36, of 2016.
The  Committee  deplores  the  use  by  Israeli  forces 
of excessive, disproportionate and indiscriminate force 
against Palestinian civilians, and emphasizes the need 
for  the  implementation  of  an  international  protection 
mechanism. In this regard, the Committee looks forward 
to  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council-mandated 
Commission  of  Inquiry  into  violations  committed  on 
the fence between Israel and the Gaza Strip during the
Great March of Return protests.
Finally, the Committee emphasizes the importance 
of the acknowledgement by Israel of the Nakba and its 
In 
the 
implementation  of 
impact on the Palestinian people, and further encourages 
all Member States to provide the United Nations Relief 
and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the 
Near East with sufficient and predictable funding.
its  mandate, 
the 
Committee  will  continue  to  enhance  its  cooperation 
with the League of Arab States and the Organization for 
Islamic  Cooperation,  and  calls  on  other  international 
and  regional  organizations,  especially  the  European 
Union,  to  take  on  a  more  politically  active  role  in 
mediating  an  end  to  the  conflict.  The  Committee 
will  also  enhance  its  outreach  to  all  Member  States 
and  regional  groups  at  the  United  Nations  with  a 
view to taking a more effective approach towards the 
achievement of a two-State solution and to expanding 
the Committee’s membership.
The Committee will continue to expand its efforts 
to  engage  civil  society,  and  encourages  civil-society 
partners  to  work  with  their  national  Governments, 
parliamentarians and other institutions to promote the 
inalienable rights of the Palestinian people and to fully 
recognize the State of Palestine and its independence.
The  Committee  notes  with  appreciation  the  work 
of the Division for Palestinian Rights and requests the 
Division to continue providing substantive Secretariat 
support for the Committee’s mandate. The Committee 
requests the continuation of the Department of Public 
Information’s  special  information  programme  on  the 
question  of  Palestine,  which  has  made  an  important 
contribution to informing the media and the public.
In  conclusion,  I  am  seeking  the  support  of  my 
colleagues  on  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.31,  A/73/L.32, 
А/73/L.33  and  А/73/L.34,  endorsed  unanimously  by 
the Committee, for adoption by the General Assembly.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the Permanent Observer of the Observer State 
of Palestine.
Mr. Mansour (Palestine): At the outset, I want to 
convey to you, Madam President, and through you, to 
the  General  Assembly  family  that  has  so  long  stood 
on  the  side  of  justice,  our  profound  appreciation  for 
the  principled  positions  and  meaningful  support  that 
the  Assembly  continues  to  extend  to  the  Palestinian 
people. As we once again mark the International Day of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, we are reminded 
of  the  breadth  of  global  support  for  the  just  cause  of 
Palestine, and are deeply grateful.
18-40195
3/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
Despite the misfortunes and continuing hardships, 
disappointments and crises endured by the Palestinian 
people, we remain firm in our conviction in the justness 
and dignity of our cause and steadfast in our belief that 
with  the  Assembly’s  collective  support,  this  injustice 
will ultimately be brought to an end.
Even at this existential moment — 71 years after the 
Assembly’s adoption of resolution 181 (II) partitioning 
Palestine against the will and rights of our people, more 
than 70 years after the Nakba and after more than 50 
years  of  Israel’s  foreign  occupation,  and  considering 
all  that  has  been  lost  and  suffered  by  our  people  and 
region, generation after generation, and in the face of 
diminishing hopes and rising challenges — we remain 
determined  to  realize  the  inalienable  rights  of  our 
people so that they may finally live in freedom, peace 
and security in their homeland.
On this day of solidarity, we reiterate our ongoing 
appeal to the international community — to all States, 
international  organizations  and  civil  society  —  to 
strengthen  their  resolve  to  fulfil  their  obligations  to 
make a just peace a reality. We want to recall here the 
historic significance of collective action in overcoming 
injustice  and  resolving  conflict,  as  seen  in  the  defeat 
of  apartheid,  colonialism  and  the  scourge  of  world 
wars past.
The  path  we  have  chosen  to  take  to  solve  the 
Palestine question, the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict, 
is  a  peaceful  one.  We  are  committed  to  diplomatic, 
political,  legal  and  non-violent  means  to  realize  our 
rights, in the belief that respect for international law is 
essential to credible negotiations and is the fundamental 
basis  of  a  solution.  Despite  blows  to  the  credibility 
of  the  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly,  we 
maintain  our  faith  in  their  authority  and  capacities 
to uphold the law in order to reach a just, lasting and 
peaceful solution to a question that has vexed the United 
Nations  since  its  inception.  Our  faith  must  be  shared 
by all who still believe in the purposes and principles 
of the Organization, the rule of law and the true spirit 
of multilateralism.
the prospects for peace and dismantling the possibility 
of  two-State  solution  settlement  by  settlement,  even 
as we are subjected to punitive measures — from the 
United States decision on Jerusalem a year ago, to its 
termination  of  funding  for  the  United  Nations  Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East  (UNRWA),  after  decades  as  its  largest  donor,  to 
attempts to strip Palestine refugees of their legitimate 
status and rights, to constant distortions of reality and 
the  underlying  issues,  and  the  list  goes  on  —  all  for 
refusing  to  capitulate  to  injustice  and  for  demanding 
our rights and freedom?
Only a deep belief in the law and the inevitability of 
justice could have kept us on this path. This should be 
seen as remarkable, considering that Israel’s violations 
and  war  crimes  continue  to  be  rewarded  rather  than 
punished  by  the  international  community,  making  it 
extraordinarily  difficult  to  continue  justifying  our 
choice  of  a  peaceful  path  and  convincing  our  people, 
especially our young people, of its logic and benefits, 
when  they  experience  none  at  all  in  their  daily  lives 
and  see  no  possibility  whatever  of  a  future  free  of 
occupation,  conflict  and  want.  The  dangers  of  the 
current  situation  cannot  be  overstated.  The  huge  gap 
between  our  lofty  beliefs  and  the  abhorrent  realities 
on  the  ground  must  be  quickly  remedied  before  it  is 
too late — for Palestinians, Israelis and the region as 
a whole.
Israel is in grave breach of virtually all international 
legal  obligations,  particularly 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention. It acts with blatant contempt for the Security 
Council, not only violating resolution 2334 (2016) and 
all other relevant resolutions, but even bragging of its 
violations and mocking the international community’s 
failure  to  hold  it  accountable.  As  Israel  ignores 
demands  to  cease  its  illegal  policies  and  practices  in 
occupied  Palestine,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  to 
reverse negative trends on the ground, the destructive 
toll  of  its  colonization,  dispossession,  oppression  and 
deprivation of our people continues to climb, and it is 
systematically destroying the possibility of a two-State 
solution on the basis of the pre-1967 borders.
If  we  did  not  believe,  how  could  we  possibly 
continue  to  engage  the  Assembly,  and  on  this  tragic 
anniversary  in  particular?  How  could  we  continue 
making  our  appeals,  resolution  after  resolution,  even 
as  the  situation  worsens  with  Israel,  the  occupying 
Power,  entrenching 
land, 
intensifying  its  oppression  of  our  people,  destroying 
its  occupation  of  our 
In the past year, we saw the continuation of illegal 
Israeli settlement activities in the West Bank, especially 
in and around East Jerusalem, including the construction 
and  expansion  of  settlements,  the  construction  of  the 
annexation  wall,  the  transfer  of  settlers,  the  theft  of 
Palestinian  land,  the  demolition  of  Palestinian  homes 
and properties, the forced displacement of Palestinian 
4/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
civilians  and  attempts  to  forcibly  transfer  entire 
communities,  such  as  the  Bedouin  village  of Khan 
Al-Ahmar/Abu  Al-Helu,  and  the  massive  exploitation 
of our natural resources.
The  occupying  Power  and  its  extremists  also 
persisted in provocations against holy sites, particularly 
in  occupied  East  Jerusalem,  including  at  Al-Haram 
Al-Sharif, thereby violating the historic status quo and 
stirring religious tensions. That has been accompanied 
by inflammatory rhetoric and incitement by the Israeli 
Government, military officials and settler extremists that 
fuel hatred, violence and terror against Palestinians, as 
well as lethal military raids and settler attacks that cause 
death  and  injury  to  our  civilians,  including  children, 
and the ongoing arrest, detention, imprisonment, abuse 
and torture of thousands of Palestinians.
Israel has also continued its collective punishment 
of 
the  Palestinian  civilian  population,  violating 
every kind of human right. The most heinous of such 
restrictions remains Israel’s 11-year blockade of Gaza, 
where  2  million  Palestinians  are  being  deliberately 
isolated  and  deprived  in  what  has  tragically  become 
known  as  the  world’s  only  open-air  prison.  The  dire 
humanitarian crisis and suffocating poverty caused by 
this illegal blockade are at the root of the deep despair 
that  has  fuelled  the  Great  March  of  Return,  to  which 
Israel  has  responded  with  typical  aggression  and 
cruelty,  killing  more  than  220  Palestinians,  including 
at  least  45  children,  and  injuring  more  than  24,000, 
further 
traumatizing  our  defenceless  population, 
which  remains  in  need  of  international  protection. 
This situation is beyond inhumane and requires urgent 
redress, beginning with the lifting of the blockade.
racist 
to 
laws  designed 
In addition, the Israeli Government, led by extremist 
members  of  the  Prime  Minister’s  coalition  and  aided 
by  the  so-called  justice  system,  continues  promoting 
discriminatory 
further 
dispossess,  marginalize  and  dehumanize  Palestinians 
and  facilitate  Israel’s  annexation  aims.  The  most 
offensive of those laws is the recent Jewish nation-State 
bill, which has led many to rightly view the prevailing 
situation as akin to an apartheid regime. In Israel, only 
Jews  are  entitled  to  self-determination.  The  21  per 
cent  of  the  Israeli  population  that  is  Palestinian  Arab 
is  denied  that  right.  If  discrimination  on  the  basis  of 
religious affiliation does not constitute discrimination 
par excellence, I want the General Assembly to tell me 
what discrimination is.
Israel’s  occupation  of  Palestinian  and  Arab  lands 
long ago crossed the threshold of illegality and cannot 
be defended or justified in any way. Not only is it the 
root  cause  of  grave  human  suffering,  insecurity  and 
instability in our region, its protraction has eroded the 
rule of law and the perception of justice in the Middle 
East  and  beyond,  feeding  a  culture  of  impunity  that 
threatens the international system’s viability.
We therefore once again call for urgent action. The 
international community cannot continue to decry the 
violations of Palestinian rights and the destruction of the 
two-State solution without acting to end this unlawful 
situation. Measures of accountability and proactive and 
collective  peace  efforts  are  imperative.  We  therefore 
appeal to all States to do the following.
international 
First,  States  must  uphold 
law 
regarding  the  Palestine  question,  including  through 
support for relevant resolutions and mobilization of the 
political  will  to  implement  those  resolutions  in  order 
to  help  resolve  the  conflict  and  establish  a  just  and 
lasting peace.
Secondly,  States  must  affirm  support  for  the 
Palestinian  people  and  their  inalienable  rights  by 
upholding  international  law,  recognizing  the  State  of 
Palestine on the basis of the pre-1967 borders, with East 
Jerusalem as its capital, and providing humanitarian and 
development  support,  including  to  Palestine  refugees 
through UNRWA, pending a just solution to their plight 
pursuant to resolution 194 (III).
Thirdly, States must ensure they are not complicit 
with Israel’s illegal actions, including by not recognizing 
as legitimate the unlawful situation created by Israel’s 
policies and measures in occupied Palestine, including 
East Jerusalem, or as a result of its settlement activities, 
by not rendering aid to maintain that unlawful situation, 
and by making a clear distinction in all of their relevant 
dealings between the territory of the occupying Power 
and the territory occupied since 1967, as called for by 
Security Council resolution 2334 (2016).
Fourthly, they must ensure accountability, including 
through practical measures, in order to ensure respect 
for  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  implement 
United  Nations 
international 
humanitarian law obligations as high contracting parties 
to  the  Geneva  Conventions,  support  the  activation  of 
international  accountability  mechanisms  and  pursue 
measures to hold the Israeli Government, organizations 
resolutions,  uphold 
18-40195
5/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
and individuals accountable for their illegal actions at 
the political, diplomatic, legal and economic levels.
It  is  a  stark  equation.  As  long  as  the  benefits 
outweigh  the  costs,  Israel  will  continue  to  impose 
its  illegal  occupation  and  trample  on  the  Charter  and 
United  Nations  resolutions.  Accountability  is  key  to 
ending impunity. States must act on their commitments 
and end the double standard of rewarding Israel for its 
illegal behaviour rather than punishing it.
In this context, we cannot allow the efforts of the 
United Nations and its Member States to contribute to 
a just solution to be mocked as biased or one-sided, as 
falsely claimed by Israel and those who try to absolve it 
of its crimes. Nor can we accept accusations that United 
Nations resolutions are anti-Israel. They are not. They 
are founded entirely on international law and the global 
consensus on the parameters of a solution in conformity 
with the relevant United Nations resolutions, the Madrid 
principles,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  Quartet 
road map, at the heart of which is a two-State solution 
for Palestine and Israel.
We  urge  all  members  to  reject  the  exploitation  of 
the General Assembly for punitive purposes that have 
no legal basis, deflect attention from the root causes of 
the conflict and undermine our collective efforts for a 
just peace. We appeal to the Assembly to stand firmly 
in  support  of  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and 
the  two-State  solution  and  in  defence  of  international 
law and true multilateralism in the face of the serious 
challenges to all of them.
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  gratitude  to  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People for its support and constant efforts 
aimed at achieving a just, lasting, comprehensive peace, 
whereby the State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem as 
its  capital,  can  live  side  by  side  with  Israel  based  on 
the  pre-1967  borders,  in  peace  and  security.  We  urge 
all  Member  States  to  cooperate  with  and  support  the 
Committee, in line with the relevant resolutions and the 
Organization’s  permanent  responsibility  with  respect 
to the Palestine question.
We  thank  Senegal,  Chair  of  the  Committee,  for 
assuming  this  important  role  over  the  years.  We  also 
thank all the other Bureau members — the Vice-Chairs
Afghanistan, Cuba, Indonesia, Namibia and Nicaragua, 
and  the  Rapporteur,  Malta  —  and  all  Committee 
members  and  observers  for  their  principled  support. 
We  thank  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  and  the 
Department of Public Information’s special information 
programme on the question of Palestine for their efforts.
Today we also want to reiterate our appreciation to 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  for  his  relevant 
reports and his leadership of the Organization’s efforts 
on the question of Palestine, including the work of his 
Personal  Representative  and  Special  Coordinator  for 
the Middle East Peace Process, and the tireless efforts 
of  the  many  United  Nations  agencies  assisting  the 
Palestinian people, with UNRWA at their forefront, and 
with the generous support of States, organizations and 
partners from around the world. This vital support must 
continue, and we urge the international community to 
intensify efforts to fulfil its political, legal and moral 
obligations to resolve this grave injustice and achieve a 
just and lasting peace.
Mr. Danon (Israel): Every year the United Nations 
adopts  at  least  20  resolutions  aimed  specifically  at 
condemning Israel. Not a single one of those resolutions, 
or any General Assembly resolution, has ever included 
Hamas.  These  resolutions  make  a  mockery  of  the 
Palestinians, the very people the United Nations claims 
to defend. Rather than leading Palestinians forward to 
the future, they keep them locked in the past.
The  annual  draft  resolutions  set  forth  today  will 
likely be adopted once more, which is not surprising. 
But the international community has had an opportunity 
to  take  a  moral  stance  and  finally  condemn  Hamas, 
which  is  internationally  recognized  as  a  terrorist 
organization  that  is  guilty  of  launching  thousands  of 
rockets  into  Israel,  endangering  Israeli  civilians  and 
torching our land; stealing aid funding from civilians 
in Gaza to construct military infrastructure, including 
terror  tunnels;  using  the  people  of  Gaza  as  human 
shields; and holding hostage the bodies of Oron Shaul 
and Hadar Goldin, who were abducted and murdered by 
Hamas in 2014, as well as Avera Mengistu and Hisham 
Al-Sayed,  two  Israeli  civilians.  If  the  international 
community does not condemn Hamas, it is enabling a 
terrorist organization.
Israel’s  first  Prime  Minister,  David  Ben-Gurion, 
once  said  that  in  order  to  be  a  realist  in  Israel,  one 
must  believe  in  miracles.  The  historic  homeland  of 
the Jewish people, the land of Israel, was conquered, 
destroyed, rebuilt and demolished again. For centuries, 
it remained a barren desert as it passed from empire to 
empire, from the Canaanites to the ancient Egyptians 
to  the  Babylonians  to  the  Ottoman  Turks  and  the 
6/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
British, with countless other Powers in between. Our 
people  were  exiled  from  our  land  but  continued  to 
dream of it every holiday, three times a day in prayer 
and throughout the never-ending anti-Semitism that we 
could  not  escape.  But  on  this  day  71  years  ago,  our 
age-old dream became a real-life miracle. In this Hall, 
33 Member States voted in favour of a plan that would 
designate  what  was  only  a  small  portion  of  the  land 
of Israel towards the most liberating end possible, the 
self-determination of the Jewish people (see A/PV.128).
Immediately we said yes. We were grateful to get 
even  a  piece  of  our  homeland.  But  from  that  dream-
come-true moment, the Jewish State of Israel has never 
experienced true peace. We have faced wars, terrorism, 
threats, isolation, double standards and anti-Semitism, 
but  we  have  never  let  that  stop  us  from  building 
something  miraculous  —  creating  an  oasis  in  the 
desert with drip irrigation, forming the most successful 
knowledge-based economy in the world and installing 
the  one  and  only  democracy  for  hundreds  of  miles. 
One need only look at the map. Nothing has stood in 
our way.
The adoption of resolution 181 (II) on 29 November 
1947  did  not  give  us  everything  that  we  wanted,  but 
we  accepted  what  we  were  given  with  gratitude  and 
turned  it  into  something  extraordinary.  However,  our 
Palestinian  neighbours  did  not  share  this  mindset. 
Rather  than  accepting  reality  and  making  something 
of  it,  they  rejected  it  entirely.  They  did  not  say  “but” 
or  “maybe”,  they  said  “no”.  As  soon  as  the  partition 
resolution was adopted, 71 years ago, the Palestinians 
began  teaching  their  children  to  hate  ours.  They 
cemented their hopes in an unrealistic past and refused 
to move forward, and they have stayed there ever since. 
It is about time that the Palestinians hit the reset button. 
They must recalculate their route so that partnerships, 
prosperity and peace can be possible.
Israel  represents  seven  decades  of  miracles,  and 
a  beacon  of  democratic  freedoms  and  human  rights, 
that  even  our  adversaries  in  this  Hall  cannot  deny. 
Israeli  elections  are  free  and  fair.  Israelis  enjoy  full 
freedom  of  speech.  Israeli  media  outlets  are  entirely 
free  to  criticize  their  Government,  while  such  blatant 
criticism would be unheard of in any other country in 
the Middle East. Israel champions equal rights for all of 
its people. Women make up 28 per cent of the Knesset, 
our  Parliament,  and  our  current  Ministers  of  Justice, 
Social  Equality  and  Culture  are  women.  An  entire 
sector of start-up ecosystems is dedicated to improving 
the  lives  of  people  with  disabilities.  One  company, 
which has expanded all over the world, has invented an 
exoskeleton  system  that  actually  enables  people  with 
spinal-cord damage to walk again.
Our freedom allows us to develop great ideas and 
send  them  around  the  entire  world,  from  agricultural 
innovations  that  use  satellite  technology  to  track 
environmental trends, to health-care breakthroughs that 
can detect early-stage cancer tumours without resort to 
biopsies, or to counter-terrorism technologies keeping 
all of us safe by using facial-recognition technologies. 
We  are  eager  to  share  our  knowledge,  expertise  and 
capabilities  with  our  friends  around  the  globe.  Israel 
believes in an ever-changing world. Even when we had 
nothing  we  still  built  something  remarkable.  It  is  our 
part of our DNA.
But  the  Palestinians  have  shown  no  interest  in 
improvement.  Since  the  moment  of  the  voting  on 
resolution  181  (II),  the  Palestinians  have  wasted 
decades  spreading  hatred  and  sponsoring  terrorism. 
Instead of inventions they choose incitement. Instead of 
ventures they choose violence, and in lieu of progress 
they choose the past.
Since  the  moment  that  the  United  Nations  voted 
to recognize a Jewish State and an Arab State, all we 
have  heard  is  “no”:  no  to  peace,  no  to  negotiations, 
no to dialogue. Every time we reach out with an open 
hand, we are met not just with a clenched fist but with 
an  armed  one.  We  face  a  Palestinian  leadership  that 
is so problematic that only 29 per cent of Palestinians 
trust  it  to  be  able  to  hold  free  and  fair  elections. 
Mahmoud Abbas was elected in 2005. Those were the 
last Palestinian Authority elections ever held. Abbas is 
in  the  thirteenth  year  of  his  four-year  term.  We  see  a 
Palestinian  media  industry  whose  members  are  more 
often  found  in  prison  or  dead  than  reporting  on  the 
ground. In the words of one journalist detained by the 
Palestinian  Authority,  “I  live  in  a  country  where  it  is 
forbidden  to  express  my  opinion”.  We  have  watched, 
disturbed, as nearly 50 per cent of married Palestinian 
women in Gaza have experienced domestic violence.
It  is  no  secret  that  the  Palestinian  leadership 
sponsors  terrorism.  This  past  year,  Mahmoud  Abbas 
allocated  $355  million  to  terrorist  salaries.  I  repeat: 
$355 million. That number is more than 45 per cent of 
the  foreign  aid  that  the  Palestinians  will  receive  this 
year from all of the Member States here. The current 
Palestinian leadership is not capable of leading. It is not 
18-40195
7/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
interested in the responsibilities of governing, making 
hard  choices,  delivering  on  promises  to  its  people  or 
investing  in  its  own  institutions.  The  Palestinians 
could surge ahead into the future, but instead they have 
chosen to incite violence and terrorism and to deny the 
connection  of  the  Jewish  people  to  the  land  of  Israel. 
If  they  were  truly  interested  in  creating  a  better  life 
for  their  people,  they  would  devote  their  energy  to 
making peace.
Israel  is  sprinting  into  the  future.  We  want  the 
Palestinian  people  to  sprint  with  us,  to  build  their 
economy  and  make  progress  towards  peace,  but  the 
Palestinians  have  shown  no  interest  in  accepting 
reality  and  making  something  of  it.  For  example,  in 
2005  Israel  completely  pulled  out  of  the  Gaza  Strip. 
We  have  absolutely  no  presence  there.  We  removed 
all  of  the  Jewish  communities.  We  sent  our  soldiers 
home.  We  even  uprooted  our  cemeteries.  One  cannot 
find  a  single  Jew  in  Gaza  today.  The  Palestinians 
had  the  opportunity  to  transform  Gaza  into  the  new 
pearl  of  the  Mediterranean,  but  instead  they  elected 
Hamas, and Gaza became a terminal for terror. There 
is high potential for a successful Palestinian economy, 
especially  one  centred  on  high-tech  and  start-up 
culture,  but  the  roadblock  to  its  success  is  a  corrupt 
Palestinian leadership.
With 65 per cent of Palestinians pessimistic about 
their  future,  it  is  high  time  that  the  Palestinians  took 
three drastic measures for change. I would like to share 
those measure with the Palestinians.
First,  they  must  reject  their  rejectionism.  Israel 
is  here  to  stay.  The  idea  that  if  they  ignore  us  we 
will  go  away  is  false  and  a  waste  of  energy.  Instead, 
Palestinians  should  focus  on  building  a  better  future 
for  their  children  and  leave  hatred  behind.  Secondly, 
they  must  stop  teaching  hatred  and  paying  terrorists. 
They should teach tolerance and pay teachers instead. 
Thirdly,  if  they  are  frustrated  with  the  status  quo, 
they  should  change  it,  replace  their  current  corrupt 
leadership  and  elect  a  leader  who  cares  about  them. 
Only when these three measures are taken will peace 
be possible.
The  world  cannot  expect  different  results  using 
the  same  equation.  If  it  expects  to  see  change  for 
Palestinians and Israelis, it must change the equation. It 
should not cooperate with the Palestinians as they bring 
empty  draft  resolutions  and  symbolic  gestures  to  the 
United Nations. It should not fuel the fire of delusion. 
Instead, it should take responsibility for ensuring that 
the Palestinians recognize Israel as a Jewish State. The 
Palestinians  should  end  the  campaign  of  incitement 
and, finally, elect responsible leadership.
What the world has seen from Israel over the past 
71  years  is  only  the  beginning.  We  are  committed  to 
infinite prosperity in partnership with our neighbours, 
but  if  the  Palestinians  choose  not  to  join  us,  we  will 
not let their hostility hold us back. The Jewish people 
will continue to flourish regardless of the obstacles that 
come their way. We will continue to be courageous in 
our aspirations, prosperity and quest for peace. As it is 
written in chapter 29, verse 11, of the Book of Psalms of 
the Holy Bible, “May God give strength to his people; 
may God bless his people with peace”.
Ms.  Bahous  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank you, Madam President, for 
your able stewardship of today’s meeting.
On  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People, we are pleased to convey our sincere 
thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  Chair  and  members 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights of the Palestinian People for their tireless efforts 
aimed at defending the rights of our brother Palestinian 
people, mobilizing international support for them and 
their  just  cause,  and  standing  up  to  all  attempts  to 
undermine  and  deny  their  rights.  These  efforts  have 
been  very  effective  in  keeping  the  issue  of  the  rights 
of Palestinian people at the centre of the international 
community’s  priorities  and  concerns,  and  in  keeping 
Governments,  intergovernmental  organizations,  civil-
society  organizations  and  the  media  focused  on  the 
urgent  need  to  resolve  the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict 
and fulfil the aspirations of the Palestinians to establish 
their independent State on their national territory.
Yesterday  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  Ibn 
Al-Hussein of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan sent a 
message to the Chair of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People on 
the occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with 
the  Palestinian  People.  In  his  letter,  King  Abdullah 
asserted  that  the  Palestinian  question  is  key  to 
achieving  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East  and 
that all final status issues, including those of Jerusalem 
and refugees’ right of return and right to compensation, 
must  be  resolved  through  serious  negotiations  and  a 
comprehensive  settlement  of  the  Palestinian-Israeli 
conflict  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  international 
8/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
that 
there 
resolutions.  The  King  stressed 
is  no 
alternative  to  a  two-State  solution  or  to  establishing 
a  sovereign  and  viable  independent  Palestinian  State 
within the 4 June 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as 
its capital. The Palestinian question remains a central 
issue  in  the  Middle  East,  and  comprehensive  and 
lasting  peace  is  the  strategic  option  of  choice  among 
Arabs, embodied by the Arab Peace Initiative adopted 
by all Arab States and supported by the Organization of 
Islamic Cooperation.
Jordan  enjoys  excellent  relations  with  Palestine 
and  its  brotherly  people.  We  are  organically  linked 
by  historical,  civilizational,  cultural,  humanitarian 
and  geographical  ties.  Since  the  Palestinian  question 
first  arose,  Jordan’s  political  and  diplomatic  efforts 
have  focused  on  guaranteeing  the  legitimate  rights 
of  the  Palestinian  people  under  international  law, 
based  on  the  principles  on  which  the  United  Nations 
was  founded,  including  settling  disputes  by  peaceful 
means,  refraining  from  the  use  of  force  and  rejecting 
violence, and striving to cooperate with all States and 
international actors to achieve those ends. Our values 
and  principles  guide  us  to  address,  to  the  best  of  our 
ability,  the  human  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people 
who have been denied their most basic and recognized 
international rights to freedom, self-determination and 
the establishment of an independent State on their own 
national territory.
The harsh living conditions and worsening human 
plight  faced  by  the  Palestinian  people,  particularly  in 
the Gaza Strip, have increased poverty, frustration and 
despair, and call for immediate and serious action. The 
blockade on Gaza must be lifted and the humanitarian 
disaster  there  ended.  In  Jordan,  we  will  continue 
to  provide  every  form  of  support  to  our  Palestinian 
brothers and work in all international forums to focus 
the  world’s  attention  on  the  terrible  suffering  of  our 
brothers and sisters and on their just cause.
As  Jordan  is  Palestine’s  next-door  neighbour,  our 
people,  particularly  those  living  in  Jerusalem,  are 
keenly aware of the daily suffering of the Palestinian 
people.  The  Hashemite  custodianship  of  the  Islamic 
and  Christian  holy  sites  in  Jerusalem  is  a  historic 
responsibility that Jordan has been honoured to assume 
on  behalf  of  the  Arab  and  Islamic  nations.  We  will 
continue to fulfil our role in opposing any attempt to 
change the current historical and legal status of those 
sites,  and  to  counter  any  efforts  to  partition  Al-Aqsa 
Mosque/Al-Haram  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif,  temporally  or 
spatially. We must work together to defend Jerusalem 
and address any attempts to impose a new reality on the 
city, which would have disastrous repercussions on the 
future stability of the region.
Any  rollback  in  services  provided  by  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), and any attempt 
to undermine the Agency’s role as set forth in its United 
Nations  mandate,  would  trigger  grave  consequences, 
particularly  at  a  time  when  there  are  no  prospects 
for an end to the occupation or for a resolution of the 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict on the basis of a two-State 
solution. We will therefore continue to spare no effort to 
mobilize international political and financial support for 
UNRWA so that it can continue to do its work pursuant 
to  its  United  Nations  mandate,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
more than 5 million Palestinian refugees. Safeguarding 
UNRWA means respecting the right of refugees to live 
in  dignity,  the  right  of  more  than  500,000  students 
to  attend  school  and  the  right  of  Palestinian  refugees 
to  receive  health  care  and  basic  living  necessities.  It 
also  means  asserting  the  right  of  refugees  to  return 
and get compensation under the relevant international 
resolutions. Jordan will play a pivotal role in resolving 
this issue within the framework of the comprehensive 
final status solution involving refugees in accordance 
with the relevant United Nations resolutions.
Given the tragic and deteriorating situation of the 
Palestinian  people  that  has  resulted  from  the  ongoing 
arbitrary  Israeli  occupation  and  Israel’s  illegal  and 
illegitimate  settlement  activities,  arbitrary  detentions 
and  assassinations,  we  must  work  hand  in  hand  with 
all those who advocate peace, righteousness and justice 
and  who  believe  in  international  legitimacy  as  the 
means to end those practices. Continuing this conflict 
will  lead  to  further  violence,  terrorism  and  hatred 
throughout the world. We must work together to achieve 
a  comprehensive  and  just  peace  between  Palestinians 
and Israelis, a peace that ends the injustice being done 
to  the  Palestinian  people  and  their  suffering,  and  one 
that ensures freedom, progress and prosperity for them 
in  their  independent  and  sovereign  State,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Today 
the  General  Assembly  is  taking  up  the  long-standing 
issue  of  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  and 
other Arab territories in the light of the reports of the 
Secretary-General entitled “Peaceful settlement of the 
question  of  Palestine”  (A/73/346)  and  “The  situation 
18-40195
9/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
in  the  Middle  East”  (A/73/322),  and  the  report  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People (A/73/35).
What  continues  to  boggle  the  mind  is  that  these 
reports unequivocally demonstrate the just cause of the 
Palestinian  people  and  other  States  whose  territories 
have been occupied by oppressive force. In this regard, 
we feel compelled to cite the note verbale dated 13 July 
from  the  Permanent  Observer  Mission  of  the  State  of 
Palestine to the United Nations, included in the report 
of the Secretary-General on the peaceful settlement of 
the question of Palestine:
in  contrast 
to 
‘‘Regrettably, 
the  global 
welcome  and  importance  accorded  to  resolution 
2334 (2016), we continue to witness the extremely 
hostile reaction of Israel, the occupying Power, to 
the  Security  Council’s  action,  and  indeed  to  any 
General Assembly action in this regard, including 
the  adoption  of  resolution  72/14.  Despite  the  fact 
that the resolution was adopted in full conformity 
and  consistency  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, international law, the relevant resolutions 
and  the  long-standing  consensus  on  this  matter, 
the  Israeli  Government  has  vehemently  rejected 
it,  aggressively  pursuing  its  illegal  policies  and 
measures  in  Occupied  Palestine,  including  East 
Jerusalem, in blatant contempt of resolutions 2334 
(2016),  72/14  and  other  core  resolutions,  in  grave 
violation  of  its  legal  obligations,  including  under 
Article 25 of the Charter, and in total contradiction 
of  the  two-State  solution,  which  is  dependent  on 
the full, immediate cessation and reversal of such 
illegal activities.” (A/73/346, p. 3)
In that regard, the question is why 70 years had to 
elapse before the General Assembly adopted resolution 
72/14, to which the Secretary-General refers throughout 
his report in document A/73/346, and why the Assembly 
has to continue to discuss the issue. In his report, the 
Secretary-General, whom we as Member States elected 
to his post and who is a member neither of Fatah nor 
Hamas, confirms the aggressiveness with which Israel 
has  met  all  General  Assembly  resolutions,  its  blatant 
contempt for the Security Council’s resolutions and its 
gross  violations  of  the  Charter.  Why  do  we  continue 
to  consider  this  issue  if  only  one  entity  believes  that 
more  than  150  Member  States  are  wrong,  biased  and 
opposed  to  its  existence  and  security?  Why  does  that 
entity insist on being a Member of the United Nations 
if  it  believes  that  the  Organization  is  biased  and  that 
its resolutions are hostile to its existence? The greatest 
irony is that the United Nations, which is the institution 
that the entity does not like, is the very institution that 
was responsible for establishing and recognizing it.
When  we  say  that  the  occupying  Power  is  being 
provocative, we are not distorting the truth. After the 
Israeli  Prime  Minister’s  Cabinet  took  a  decision  to 
allow members of the so-called Israeli Knesset to visit 
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif,  Knesset  members  took  pictures 
during  their  visit  to  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  in  violation  of 
the  media  ban  on  photography.  Is  that  not  proof  that 
the occupying Power seeks to provoke the Palestinian 
people  and  transform  the  political  conflict  into  a 
religious one?
The  oppressive  occupying  Power  has  enacted  a 
Jewish  nation-State  law  that  provides  that  the  State 
considers  the  expanded  Jewish  settlements,  described 
as “Jewish settlements”, to be of national value, and that 
it will encourage and promote their establishment. The 
law  is  applicable  in  the  area  known  as  Israel,  as  well 
as areas that have been annexed since 1967, including 
East Jerusalem. Following the law’s adoption, how can 
we believe that the entity is serious in pursuing peace 
or that it could be a genuine partner in a peace process? 
How can we trust that it will respect any borders other 
than those that come down to us from old myths? What 
is  surprising  is  that  even  after  enacting  the  law,  we 
repeatedly  hear  that  the  entity  is  the  only  democracy 
in the region. Perhaps its democracy is a privilege that 
other nations are not allowed to enjoy.
The  oppressive  occupying  Power’s  use  of  the 
tools of democracy to entrench its occupation became 
eminently  clear  when  it  imposed  municipal  elections 
on the occupied Syrian Golan with the sole purpose of 
stripping the Syrian people of their Syrian Arab identity, 
after a long period of marginalizing them and depriving 
them of their most basic rights, including potable water 
and  contact  with  their  families  and  relatives  in  their 
motherland of Syria. In that context, we emphasize that 
the occupied Golan is part and parcel of the Syrian Arab 
Republic, which continues to have sovereignty over it.
In  conclusion,  today  the  international  community 
should  address  the  Palestinian  question  with  a  sense 
of  responsibility,  not  neutrality,  because,  as  members 
of 
the  United  Nations,  we  have  all  historically 
contributed to the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian 
territories  and  left  the  Palestinians  to  face  the  entity 
by  themselves.  In  70  years  of  occupation,  we  have 
10/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
offered  the  Palestinians  nothing  but  resolutions  and 
reports. We firmly believe that today the international 
community  can  choose  between  two  alternatives  in 
this context. Either it will work seriously at all levels 
to  achieve  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace  for  both 
sides through the strict implementation of the relevant 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
the Arab Peace Initiative and the relevant agreements, 
or  we  publicly  tell  the  Palestinian  people,  who  now 
lack have no feelings hope, that the United Nations is 
incapable of providing them with any kind of support 
or help to achieve their natural and historical right to 
establish a full sovereign State on even a part of their 
historical  territories,  some  of  which  they  once  gave 
up  for  the  sake  of  peace  and  stability.  In  that  regard, 
the oppressive occupying Power intends to use use its 
death-and-destruction machine to demolish whatever is 
left of the great Palestinian people and move to control 
the remainder of the Palestinian territories in order to 
realize  its  dream  of  establishing  the  Zionist  project 
of  a  Greater  Israel,  whose  borders  and  shape  are  yet 
unknown.  Nevertheless,  we  want  it  to  be  known  that 
Palestine and its people are here to stay.
Ms. Fareena (Maldives): My delegation would like 
to  express  its  appreciation  for  the  convening  of  this 
important meeting on the question of Palestine, and to 
reiterate and renew our full support for and solidarity 
with Palestine and the Palestinian people.
It  is  now  71  years  to  the  day  since  the  General 
Assembly adopted its historic resolution 181 (II), which 
set out the framework for establishing a sovereign and 
independent State of Palestine. The resolution remains 
historic because of its failure to realize its own promise 
of  creating  two  separate,  independent  States,  living 
side by side in peace and harmony. It is historic, too, 
because of its failure to protect the fundamental rights 
of Palestinians to live in their homes with dignity and 
respect. The result of that historic failure is there for all 
to see in its entirety — decades of oppression, illegal 
occupation  and  the  denial  of  basic  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms to the Palestinian people.
The  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People,  which  is  taking  place  today,  is  an 
opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  focus 
its  attention  on  the  fact  that  the  question  of  Palestine 
is still unresolved and that the Palestinian people have 
not attained their inalienable rights, as defined by the 
General  Assembly  —  the  right  to  self-determination 
without  external  interference,  the  right  to  national 
independence  and  sovereignty  and 
the  right  of 
Palestinians to return to the homes and property from 
which  they  were  expelled.  We  urge  the  international 
community to make every effort to protect those rights.
The  Maldives  condemns  the  continued  violations 
of  human  rights  and  disregard  for  international  law 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East 
Jerusalem.  The  Secretary-General  notes  in  his  report 
(A/73/346)  the  demolition  of  homes  and  the  forced 
eviction of Palestinian families, punitive arrests, unfair 
trials, the torture of detainees and the use of excessive 
or lethal force against non-violent demonstrations.
The  Government  of  the  Maldives  therefore  urges 
Israel  to  return  to  the  right  side  of  international  law, 
restart negotiations with the leadership of the State of 
Palestine  in  good  faith  and  end  its  seven  decades  of 
occupation. We appeal to Israel to create the conditions 
necessary  for  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
and  sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem 
as its capital, on the Palestinian lands within the pre-
1967  borders,  living  side  by  side  with  Israel.  That  is 
the solution that the resolutions of the Security Council 
have advanced, and it is the only viable one.
The 
international  community  has  a  special 
responsibility to ensure that the decisions it makes, the 
resolutions we adopt in the Assembly, are implemented 
in  full  and  in  good  faith.  Obstacles  to  implementing 
such resolutions have to be identified and the necessary 
instruments deployed to ensure that the decisions of the 
United Nations are fully respected by all.
We  have  a  shared  responsibility  to  sustain  peace 
and  promote  fundamental  human  rights.  If  we  are  to 
be  able  to  meet  it,  we  must  create  an  environment  of 
respect for the human rights of the Palestinian people, 
where  there  are  no  incitements  or  provocations  and 
where  fundamental  freedoms  and  the  people  are 
suppressed and oppressed by no one. We can all take 
the  very  first  step  of  fulfilling  that  responsibility  by 
granting full membership of the United Nations to the 
State  of  Palestine.  The  Maldives  and  its  people  will 
always be with Palestine.
Mr.  Almunayekh  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
Seventy years have passed since the General Assembly 
adopted resolution 181 (II), concerning the Palestinian 
question.  However,  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people 
continue  to  suffer  from  the  Israeli  occupation  of 
their  territories,  not  to  mention  the  egregious  and 
international  humanitarian 
grave  violations  of 
18-40195
11/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
law  and  international  human  rights  law  that  have 
stripped the Palestinian people of their freedom and a 
dignified livelihood.
people  to  self-determination  and  the  establishment 
of  their  independent  State  based  on  the  4  June  1967 
borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
For  years,  numerous  international  and  United 
Nations resolutions have been adopted with a view to 
supporting the Palestinian people and their aspirations. 
Unfortunately,  most  of  them  are  dead  letters.  Israel 
has  been  intransigent  in  its  refusal  to  implement  the 
relevant  Security  Council  and  General  Assembly 
resolutions  and  shoulder  its  responsibilities  under  the 
Fourth  Geneva  Convention  since  the  beginning  of  its 
occupation in 1967, nearly 50 years ago. Israel continues 
to  engage  in  practices  that  undermine  all  United 
Nations  humanitarian  and  ethical  criteria.  It  is  trying 
to alter the demographic composition of the Palestinian 
territories  by  way  of  forced  evictions,  confiscations 
of  land  and  property  and  the  expansion  and  building 
of settlements; it is also seeking to change Palestine’s 
current,  historical  status  and  prevent  Muslims  from 
practicing their legitimate rights and religious rituals.
Since  the  Great  March  of  Return  in  March,  the 
Palestinian people have been facing the most heinous 
forms  of  human  rights  violations  as  Israel  targets 
civilians  with  live  ammunition,  claiming  the  lives  of 
hundreds  of  innocent  martyrs,  scores  of  whom  are 
children. Thousands are suffering permanent disability 
and  enduring  rigid  restrictions  on  the  mobility  of 
persons  and  goods  that  are  designed  only  to  tighten 
the  grip  that  Israel  has  had  on  the  Gaza  Strip  since 
2007  and  undermine  any  prospects  for  a  two-State 
solution.  In  that  regard,  we  stress  the  importance  of 
the  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution 
2334  (2016),  which  condemns  all  Israeli  practices  of 
expanding  and  building  settlements,  seizing  lands, 
demolishing homes and displacing Palestinians.
My country is steadfast in its defence of the rights 
of the Palestinian people, a position that is a mainstay 
of  the  external  policy  of  the  State  of  Kuwait.  We 
support  all  international  efforts  to  reach  a  just  and 
comprehensive  solution  to  the  Palestinian  question 
based  on  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  international  law 
and resolutions of international legitimacy. We welcome 
the  French  initiative  to  convene  an  international 
peace  conference  leading  to  the  establishment  of  a 
multilateral  international  mechanism  that  would  pave 
the way to ending all illegitimate settlement activities 
and eventually terminate the Israeli occupation of the 
State of Palestine once and for all, according to specific 
criteria that would guarantee the right of the Palestinian 
Through our membership in the Security Council, 
we  will  continue  to  defend  the  legitimate  rights  of 
the  Palestinian  people,  work  to  enable  the  Council  to 
shoulder its responsibility to champion the Palestinian 
people,  support  their  just  cause,  compel  Israel  to  end 
its  gross  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
in the occupied Palestinian territories and to implement 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  and  achieve  a 
just and lasting peace leading to a two-State solution.
We  celebrate  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity 
with the Palestinian People, a disarmed people who still 
suffer  from  occupation  and  remain  deprived  of  their 
fundamental  right  to  a  dignified  life.  I  would  like  to 
conclude with the following thoughts.
First, we hail the determination and struggle of the 
Palestinian people. We assert our steadfast commitment 
to supporting them in order to attain all their legitimate 
political rights and establish their independent State on 
their  land,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  as  well 
as to setting a time frame to end the Israeli occupation 
of  the  Palestinian  territories  in  accordance  with 
international regulations and laws.
Secondly,  we  continue  to  denounce  the  ongoing 
illegal  and  inhumane  blockade  of  Gaza,  which  is  yet 
another violation by Israel of Security Council resolution 
1860 (2009) and the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949. 
We call for that blockade to be ended immediately.
Thirdly,  we  call  on  the  international  community, 
through  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Security Council in particular, to provide the disarmed 
Palestinian people with international protection against 
the Israeli military machine and to end the occupation 
as  soon  as  possible.  We  also  urge  the  international 
community to extend its essential support to the United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees 
in the Near East, given its important role in mitigating 
the suffering of the brotherly Palestinian people.
Fourthly,  we  reiterate  our  call  to  all  parties, 
especially  those  that  sponsor  the  peace  process  in 
the  Middle  East,  to  intensify  their  efforts  and  exert 
pressure on Israel to accept and uphold the resolutions 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  regard,  we  call  on  the 
United  Nations  and  all  its  entities  to  take  on  their 
responsibilities regarding the Palestinian question until 
12/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
a just, comprehensive and lasting solution is reached on 
all the relevant issues, including that of refugees.
(spoke 
(Argentina) 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish):  Argentina  would  like  to  make  a  statement 
with  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  and 
the  question  of  Palestine,  agenda  items  38  and  39, 
respectively, which my country has been following with 
concern. Argentina reaffirms its support for a peaceful, 
lasting  and  comprehensive  solution  to  the  question  of 
Palestine, based on a two-State solution within the 1967 
borders,  in  addition  to  whatever  else  the  parties  may 
decide during the peace negotiation process.
the  Palestinian-Israeli  peace  process 
Twenty-five  years  after  the  signing  of  the  Oslo 
Accords, 
is 
encountering  its  most  difficult  moment  ever.  At  this 
particular juncture, Argentina reaffirms its support for 
all efforts to achieve peace and stability in the region. 
We  encourage  regional  actors  and  partner  countries 
of  Israel  and  Palestine  to  work  constructively  to  help 
the  parties  advance  towards  a  peaceful  settlement  of 
their differences with a view to resuming negotiations 
on  all  final  status  issues  identified  in  the  Oslo 
Accords  —  Jerusalem,  refugees,  settlements,  borders 
and security measures.
The seriousness of the situation on the ground calls 
for  a  collective  effort  if  the  prospect  of  a  two-State 
solution is to be kept alive, as established in the relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council, the Quartet road map for peace and the Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  Argentina  reaffirms  its  support  for 
the  inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination  and  to  establish  an  independent  and 
viable State that is recognized by all nations, as well as 
for Israel’s right to live in peace alongside its neighbours 
and within safe and internationally recognized borders.
Argentina  also  reiterates  its  concern  about  the 
persistent  and  continuing  growth  of  illegal  Israeli 
settlements in occupied Palestinian territory and calls 
for  that  expansion  to  cease.  As  has  been  pointed  out 
many  times  in  the  General  Assembly,  settlements 
are  contrary  to  international  law  and  an  obstacle  to 
peace.  They  weaken  the  prospects  for  both  States  to 
live  in  peace  and  security  and  therefore  promote  the 
perpetuation  of  an  unsustainable  status  quo.  The 
gravity  of  the  situation  has  been  recognized  by  the 
Security  Council  in  its  resolution  2334  (2016),  whose 
terms we fully affirm.
At  the  same  time,  attacks  on  Israeli  citizens  are 
totally  unacceptable  and  must  stop  immediately.  My 
country  condemns  all  terrorist  acts  in  the  strongest 
possible terms, as well as the hostile actions of Hamas 
and  other  Palestinian  organizations,  including  the 
launching of missiles from the Gaza Strip into Israeli 
territory. In that context, we recognize the right of Israel 
to exercise its legitimate right to self-defence. However, 
we also want to assert that all actions taken by Israel 
in  accordance  with  that  right  should  be  compatible 
with  international  humanitarian  law,  keeping  in  mind 
the  principles  of  distinction  between  civilians  and 
combatants, proportionality and the military necessity 
for the use of force, among other things.
We call on Palestinian organizations that have yet 
to recognize Israel to renounce the use of violence and 
respect  the  existing  agreements.  We  acknowledge  the 
positive  role  played  by  Egypt  and  the  United  Nations 
in  the  ceasefire  agreement  of  13  November,  and  we 
encourage all actors involved in Gaza to refrain from 
taking steps that could jeopardize the sustainability of 
that agreement.
In  the  light  of  the  financial  difficulties  being 
experienced  by  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East, 
Argentina  reaffirms  its  full  support  for  the  Agency’s 
work  and  recognizes  the  need  for  the  international 
community  to  come  up  with  an  appropriate  response 
to ensure the provision of the funds needed to avoid the 
interruption of its services.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  East  Jerusalem, 
Argentina  reaffirms  the  special  status  of  Jerusalem, 
based  on  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions, 
including Security Council resolution 478 (1980), and 
in that regard rejects any unilateral attempt to modify 
it, particularly with regard to the Old City of Jerusalem, 
which  has  a  special  significance  for  the  three  major 
monotheistic  religions.  We  believe  that  the  Holy  City 
should  be  a  place  of  coming  together  and  peace,  and 
that  free  access  to  the  holy  sites  must  be  guaranteed 
for  Jews,  Muslims  and  Christians  alike.  Any  attempt 
to  deny  or  relativize  the  historical  connection  and 
profound  meaning  of 
three 
monotheistic religions is completely unacceptable, does 
not contribute to the goal of finding a peaceful solution 
to  the  conflict  and  reinforces  prejudices  and  mistrust 
between the parties. Argentina believes that Jerusalem 
is one of the final status issues that must be agreed on 
by the parties through bilateral negotiations.
those  places 
the 
to 
18-40195
13/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
With  regard  to  the  Syrian  Golan,  Argentina 
maintains a principled position on the illegal acquisition 
of  territories  by  force  and  respect  for  the  territorial 
integrity of States. We firmly believe in the principle 
of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  therefore 
consider  it  important  to  seek  a  negotiated  solution  to 
the  conflict  between  Syria  and  Israel  with  a  view  to 
putting an end to the occupation of the Golan Heights as 
soon as possible, in accordance with Security Council 
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the principle 
of land for peace.
In  conclusion,  Argentina  once  again  urges  the 
Palestinians and Israelis to resume peace talks and act 
in good faith, with flexibility and in accordance with 
international law, in seeking to reach an agreement on 
the  outstanding  issues  concerning  the  final  status  of 
Palestine in all of its aspects.
Mr.  Alshamsi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): At the outset, I am pleased to be able to thank 
you, Madam President, for presiding over this meeting 
and  to  express  my  country’s  appreciation  for  the 
important activities of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People.
I want to reaffirm that the Palestinian question and 
the  Middle  East  peace  process  remain  important  and 
central issues for my country, the region and the world. 
That is in line with a letter sent by His Highness Sheikh 
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United 
Arab  Emirates,  to  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People  in  observance  of  the  International 
Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. To that 
end,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  would  like  to  express 
its  continued  support  for  international  efforts  aimed 
at  enabling  the  Palestinian  people  to  enjoy  their 
legitimate and inalienable right to end the occupation 
and  establish  an  independent  Palestinian  State  within 
the 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital, in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  international  resolutions 
and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  which  is  considered 
an  important  point  of  reference  for  a  solution  to  the 
Palestinian question.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  therefore  calls  on  the 
international community to shoulder its responsibilities, 
in accordance with international law and the Charter of 
the United Nations, to put an end to the suffering of the 
Palestinian people and to take all necessary measures 
to end the Israeli occupation of all Palestinian and Arab 
territories.  In  that  regard,  we  stress  the  importance 
of  not  allowing  any  party  to  undermine  the  serious 
collective efforts made to achieve peace and stability. 
If we allow that to happen, we will be managing crises 
rather  than  resolving  them.  We  commend  regional 
and  international  initiatives  aimed  at  advancing  the 
Middle East peace process, including the efforts of the 
Arab  Republic  of  Egypt  to  achieve  inter-Palestinian 
reconciliation and restore calm.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  condemns  Israel’s 
ongoing  aggressive  actions  against  the  Palestinian 
people. We demand that it end all actions that violate 
United  Nations  resolutions  and  international  law. 
Israel’s  continued 
illegitimate  practices,  notably 
its  promulgation  of  a  Jewish  nation-State  law  and 
its  construction  and  expansion  of  settlements  on 
Palestinian  territories,  will  undoubtedly  undermine 
the  political  efforts  to  reach  a  two-State  solution  and 
constitute a major obstacle to efforts to achieve peace.
As we work to achieve a just and lasting peace for 
the Palestinian people, we cannot ignore the exacerbated 
and deteriorating humanitarian and economic situation 
in the Palestinian territories, which are in dire need of 
enhanced  humanitarian  and  development  assistance. 
We  therefore  once  again  call  on  the  international 
community and donors to increase their contributions 
to  the  Palestinian  people  in  order  to  enable  them 
to  confront  their  crisis  and  achieve  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, like all other nations.
Given  my  country’s  historical  commitment  to 
supporting  our  brotherly  Palestinian  people  in  the 
development,  humanitarian,  education  and  social 
sectors, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  contributed 
approximately  $173  million  to  the  Palestinian  people 
in 2017 and 2018. Moreover, with regard to the United 
Arab  Emirates’  foreign  aid  policies  and  priorities, 
including  the  right  of  children  to  an  education  and 
the  empowerment  of  women  and  teacher  training,  we 
have  directed  more  than  $65  million  of  that  amount 
to  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East in order to support 
its educational programmes and the other vital services 
that it provides in the health and food sectors.
In conclusion, we reaffirm that achieving security 
and  stability  in  the  region  requires  finding  political 
solutions 
to  prolonged  crises.  That  also  means 
redoubling  our  efforts  to  combat  extremism  and 
terrorism  all  over  the  world,  particularly  given  that 
14/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
extremist and terrorist groups take advantage of crises 
to further spread violence, chaos and destruction while 
getting support and funds from certain regional parties.
Mr. Moncada (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  Today  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  celebrate  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, which provides 
an opportunity to continue our efforts to raise awareness 
within  the  international  community  with  a  view  to 
achieving a just, comprehensive and lasting solution to 
the question of Palestine.
through 
More than 70 years after the Nakba, and after 50 
years of occupation and 25 years after the signing of the 
Oslo  Accords,  we  continue  to  support  the  Palestinian 
people’s  inalienable  rights,  including  their  right  to 
self-determination, 
the  establishment  an 
independent  Palestinian  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital. That is why we call for a just solution to the 
plight  of  the  Palestinian  refugees,  in  accordance  with 
resolution 194 (III).
We  denounce 
the  ongoing  violations  being 
perpetrated by Israel, the occupying Power, in occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  attempts  to  alter  the 
nature, status and demographic composition of the city 
of  Jerusalem,  particularly  through  the  recognition  of 
Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  Israel.  In  that  regard,  we 
reject any measure seeking to alter the city’s status as a 
corpus separatum, which is a violation of international 
law, including the relevant resolutions of the Security 
Council and the General Assembly.
We  regret  the  upsurge  in  violence  and  insecurity 
in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories, and we call for an end to the illegal policies 
of  settlement,  demolition,  displacement,  arbitrary 
detention and restriction of the freedom of movement 
within  the  territories.  We  call  on  Israel  to  end  its 
policy of military incursion, which affects the civilian 
population and continues to have many victims.
We  recognize  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in 
the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  to  improve  its  effectiveness 
and the quality of its services in a context of financial 
deprivation,  with  a  view  to  continuing  to  promote 
the  human  rights  of  Palestinian  refugees.  The  United 
Nations must guarantee a budget adequate to the proper 
functioning of UNRWA so as to enable it to continue to 
carry out its humanitarian mission.
At  the  same  time,  we  appreciate  the  work  of  the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People and support it in the fulfilment 
of  its  mission.  We  urge  the  Department  of  Public 
Information  to  do  a  more  effective  job  of  providing 
information  on  the  Palestinian  question,  and  we 
commend  the  efforts  of  United  Nations  officials  to 
carry out their humanitarian work during the conflict.
Venezuela supports the request by the Government 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  for  the  establishment  of  a 
system  of  international  protection  for  the  Palestinian 
population  in  the  occupied  territory,  in  accordance 
with the Fourth Geneva Convention and resolution 904 
(1994), in the light of the ongoing acts of aggression in 
the West Bank, including East Jerusalem and Gaza, by 
the occupying Power, which remains unwilling to meet 
its responsibility to ensure the protection of Palestinians, 
in accordance with the Fourth Geneva Convention.
Finally, we reiterate our support for a just, lasting 
and peaceful solution to the Palestinian question, based 
on a two-State solution along the pre-1967 borders and 
with East Jerusalem as capital of an independent State 
of Palestine, with full United Nations membership and 
in peaceful coexistence with Israel within defined and 
recognized borders, in accordance with all the relevant 
United Nations resolutions.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): At the outset, I would like to 
express my delegation’s gratitude to the Committee on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People for its important work and comprehensive report 
(А/73/35).
Seventy-one years ago today, the General Assembly 
adopted  resolution  181  (II)  ,  which  envisaged  a  two-
State arrangement. Since then, the tragedy of Palestine 
has only intensified, and it remains an unremitting tale 
of broken promises and unfulfilled rights. As the dark 
shadows of occupation and oppression have lengthened 
over  time,  they  have  not  only  betrayed  the  hopes  and 
aspirations  of  generations  of  Palestinians,  they  have 
also sown the seeds of endless hostility and discord in 
the Middle East.
Today  many  warn  that  the  entire  region  could 
plunge into a fresh vortex of violence. That is a sobering 
assessment  that  portends  fresh  pain  and  suffering  for 
the  people  of  Palestine.  After  all,  a  conflict  that  pits 
an  occupying  Power  against  an  occupied  people  and 
in  which  one  side  is  armed  with  guns  and  modern 
weaponry and the other with only an abiding conviction 
18-40195
15/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
in  the  rightness  of  its  cause,  is  by  its  very  nature  a 
travesty  of  justice  and  all  norms  of  international  law, 
for it seeks to legitimize the strength of might over the 
power of right.
resolution  to  the  General  Assembly  that  does  nothing 
to pave the way for peace. We join other Member States 
in  categorically  rejecting  this  move  and  by  extension 
the draft resolution.
is  a 
The  question  of  Palestine 
test  of  our 
commitment  to  the  abiding  principles  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations,  based  on  the  inherent  dignity 
of  the  individual  and  on  respect  for  the  fundamental 
human rights of all human beings, including their right 
to  self-determination.  The  tragedy  of  Palestine  is  our 
collective failure to uphold those fundamental ideals as 
members of the international community.
This year, as we mark the twenty-fifth anniversary 
of  the  Oslo  Accords,  the  fundamental  principles  of  a 
two-State solution continue to be systematically eroded 
and dismantled. Unfortunately, the world seems to have 
grown  so  accustomed  to  the  disastrous  events  in  the 
occupied  territories  that  failure  to  reach  a  peace  deal 
has become the new normal. But I want to remind this 
parliament  of  the  world  that  there  is  nothing  normal 
about the hardship, pain and suffering that the people 
of Palestine face every day. These are people who are 
fast losing the few lingering remnants of hope that they 
may  have.  That  sense  of  frustration  and  despondency 
has worsened because of an unfortunate succession of 
events, a few of which I shall point to now.
First and most obviously, long-standing resolutions 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  status  of  Jerusalem  are  being  flouted  with 
contempt.  The  decision  of  some  countries  to  relocate 
their  embassies  to  Jerusalem,  despite  the  Assembly’s 
almost unanimous decision disallowing it, has further 
inflamed  the  volatile  situation.  Secondly,  the  illegal 
expansion  of  Israeli  settlements  into  the  occupied 
territory  continues  unabated.  Thirdly,  in  Gaza  the 
illegal blockade suffocating the life of a once-thriving 
community  continues  into  its  eleventh  year.  Fourthly, 
plans  to  demolish  the  Bedouin  community  of  Khan 
Al-Ahmar have yet again exposed Israel’s longstanding 
policy  of  forcibly  displacing  Palestinians  from  their 
lands. They strike at the heart of Palestinians’ identity 
and their very existence as a people. Fifthly, the decision 
of  a  major  donor  to  cease  all  financial  support  to  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  undermines  the  long-term 
sustainability of the Agency’s activities, which support 
more  than  5  million  Palestinian  refugees.  Finally,  we 
are  now  witnessing  attempts  to  deflect  the  attention 
of  the  international  community  by  bringing  a  draft 
We  all  know  what  the  contours  of  a  resolution  of 
this  long-standing  conflict  would  look  like.  They  are 
a  comprehensive  and  peaceful  settlement,  ending  the 
occupation, the realization of the inalienable rights of 
the Palestinian people, including to self-determination 
and independence, and the achievement of a two-State 
solution.  A  viable,  independent  and  contiguous  State 
of Palestine, on the basis of the internationally agreed 
parameters of the pre-1967 borders, and with Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif as its capital, is the only sustainable guarantee 
of  enduring  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  There  is  no 
alternative.  The  role  of  the  Security  Council  remains 
critical to that end. The Council will only enhance its 
own credibility by ensuring the full and comprehensive 
implementation of its long-standing resolutions.
The  Israeli  occupation  of 
the  Syrian  Golan 
represents  another  critical  dimension  of  the  Middle 
East  conflict.  Israel’s  policy  of  exercising  illegal 
control  over  resources  and  altering  the  demographic 
composition  and  legal  status  of  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan  blatantly  disregards  various  General  Assembly 
and  Security  Council  resolutions.  The  withdrawal  of 
occupation forces from all Arab lands, including from 
Lebanon and the Syrian Golan, is vital to durable peace 
and security.
In conclusion, as we all know, the suffering of the 
people of Palestine is as old as the United Nations itself. 
It is time to bring an end to this tragedy. It is time to 
reinvigorate hopes of peace and mutual coexistence for 
the  entire  region.  While  the  Palestinians  continue  to 
suffer and their homeland vanishes before our eyes, the 
international community should not remain silent any 
longer.  For  its  part,  Pakistan  remains  unstinting  and 
steadfast in its commitment to the cause of Palestine.
Mr.  Alrowaiei  (Bahrain)  (spoke 
in  Arabic): 
We  thank  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, His Excellency Mr. Cheikh Niang, Permanent 
Representative  of  Senegal,  and  the  members  of  the 
Committee  for  their  report,  contained  in  document 
A/73/35, and for their efforts to enable the Palestinian 
people  to  enjoy  their  inalienable  rights,  like  other 
peoples of the world.
16/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
The Palestinian question remains unresolved after 
70 years, despite the adoption of many Security Council 
and General Assembly resolutions on the issue. Peace 
in  the  Middle  East  is  still  basically  dependent  on  the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State and 
the return of Palestinian refugees. In that context, we 
note that the report of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People calls on 
the occupying Power to protect civilians who are under 
its  control,  in  accordance  with  international  law,  and 
for an end to the illegal blockade of the Gaza Strip.
In  a  letter  addressed  to  the  Committee  on  the 
occasion  of  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the  Palestinian  People,  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed  Al 
Khalifa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom 
of  Bahrain,  reaffirmed  Bahrain’s  steadfast  position 
with  regard  to  the  Palestinian  question.  In  that  letter, 
he stated that
“the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  headed  by  His  Majesty 
King  Hamad  bin  Isa  Al  Khalifa  reiterates  the 
inalienable  and  historic  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people,  most  notably  their  right  to  establish  their 
independent State with East Jerusalem as its capital 
along the borders of 4 June 1967. This must be in 
line  with  the  two-State  solution  and  the  relevant 
international  resolutions,  as  well  as  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative.”
We  want  to  once  again  recall  our  collective 
responsibility  as  an  international  community  to  the 
Palestinian people, and our responsibility to ensure that 
their just cause is resolved, especially in the light of the 
unprecedented  scale  of  their  long-standing  suffering, 
which requires us to stand by them. If it continues, it 
will seriously threaten peace and stability not only in 
the Middle East but also throughout the entire world.
The  deterioration  of  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
territories  and  Israel’s  rejected  policies  —  including 
forced  displacement,  the  unjustified,  excessive  use  of 
force, land confiscation, illegal settlement construction 
and  other  dangerous  practices  —  constitute  gross 
violations  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the  1949 
Geneva Conventions. The international community must 
therefore put pressure on Israel to end those practices 
immediately and implement international resolutions.
and  basic  services  and  has  always  contributed  to  the 
improvement  of  the  living  conditions  of  Palestinian 
refugees.  We  reaffirm  the  importance  of  providing 
support to UNRWA so that it can perform its duties to 
the best of its abilities.
In  conclusion,  any  settlement  of  the  Palestinian-
Israeli  conflict  requires  basic  solutions  such  as  those 
contained  in  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  The  Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
step up its efforts to ensure that the Palestinian people 
can  exercise  their  inalienable  rights,  the  Palestinian 
refugees can return home, and a lasting and just peace 
can be achieved in accordance with the relevant United 
Nations  resolutions,  including  those  of  the  Security 
Council on a two-State solution, which would enable all 
the peoples of the region to live in peace and stability.
Ms. Mudallali (Lebanon) (spoke in Arabic): First 
and  foremost,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Ambassador 
of Senegal, Chair of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  for 
his efforts. I also want to thank all the members of the 
Committee for their support to the Palestinian people.
As  we  do  every  year,  we  are  meeting  today  to 
consider the Palestinian question and reaffirm the fact 
that the Palestinian people have inalienable and lasting 
rights, including the right to exist, to live and to build a 
State on their own territory. We must therefore fulfil our 
responsibilities regarding this matter, which dates back 
more  than  seven  decades  and  is  now  an  issue  for  the 
entire international community. The Palestinian people 
have the right to restore peace to the city of peace.
Decades  have  passed  and  Palestine  is  still  on  our 
agenda,  without  a  solution  or  prospect  for  a  solution 
despite  dozens  of  international  resolutions,  initiatives 
and negotiations.
Lebanon values the efforts of the United Nations to 
realize the rights of the Palestinian people. We agree with 
you, Madam President, that there is a need today more 
than ever to express our solidarity with the Palestinian 
people.  Lebanon  underscores 
to 
supporting  and  assisting  the  Palestinian  people  in 
enjoying their right to freedom and self-determination, 
because the current phase of the Palestinian question is 
the most dangerous since the start of the conflict.
its  commitment 
I  commend  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in 
the  Near  East  (UNRWA),  which  provides  education 
Everyone is aware that the situation in the Middle 
East,  and  particularly  in  Palestine,  is  deplorable. 
Peace remains out of reach, while an entire people are 
18-40195
17/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
suffering daily under the yoke of occupation and as a 
result of international variables that reinforce dangerous 
trends.  Both  the  Palestinian  and  the  Arab  sides  see 
that the foundations of peace are being systematically 
undermined. Those foundations have been unanimously 
and  internationally  recognized  in  this  Hall  since  the 
adoption  of  resolution  181  (II),  which  called  for  the 
creation of a Palestinian State, and of resolution 3236 
(XXIX),  which  called  for  self-determination  for  the 
Palestinian  people,  as  well  as  dozens  of  resolutions 
calling on Israel to withdraw from the occupied Arab 
territories to the line of 4 June 1967, including Security 
Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973),  which 
also called for an end to the construction of settlements, 
which  runs  counter  to  international  legitimacy  and 
international law.
All  those  resolutions  constitute  the  legal  and 
legitimate  basis  of  a  political  solution  to  the  conflict. 
They  provide  the  grounds  for  a  just,  comprehensive 
and lasting solution that can guarantee peace for all the 
peoples of the region. They are currently dealt with as 
dead  letters.  Those  resolutions  have  been  effectively 
erased through denial and failure to recognize people’s 
legitimate  rights,  as  well  as  by  attempts  to  abrogate 
them completely, which increase the sense of frustration 
and despair. This is all happening while the situation on 
the ground is deteriorating and unilateral measures and 
policies are being adopted in an attempt to nullify the 
final status issues that clearly contravenes international 
legitimacy.  Certain  States  have  recognized  Jerusalem 
as  the  capital  of  Israel  and  moved  their  embassies  to 
Jerusalem,  which  threatens  any  remaining  hopes  for 
peace,  since  Jerusalem  is  one  of  the  most  important 
final status issues.
Attempts  to  end  assistance  to  the  United  Nations 
Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in 
the  Near  East  and  its  funding  are  cruel  moves  that 
jeopardize  the  lives  and  future  of  the  refugees.  What 
is  needed  is  the  provision  of  support  to  an  agency 
that  ensures  humanitarian,  educational  and  medical 
services  to  millions  of  Palestinian  refugees.  The 
settlements, which are considered illegal under dozens 
of international resolutions and constitute an obstacle 
to achieving peace, are growing faster than ever. They 
continue to cut off the occupied Palestinian territories 
and  threaten  the  dream  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
achieve  an  independent  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital.
Gaza,  an  enormous  prison  for  nearly  2  million 
people,  has  endured  dire  humanitarian  conditions 
during 12 years of siege. The situation there threatens 
to explode at any time. Ninety-five per cent of the water 
in Gaza is undrinkable, the unemployment rate is the 
highest  in  the  world,  and  the  inhabitants  of  Gaza  are 
being attacked and shot with live Israeli ammunition, 
leaving  hundreds  killed  and  thousands  of  civilian 
demonstrators injured. All of that makes it more than 
ever incumbent on us to return to the path of peace and 
the Arab Peace Initiative and to implement the relevant 
United Nations resolutions.
The  Arab  countries  expressed  their  position  at 
the Arab Summit Conference in Beirut in 2002. They 
chose a path of peace for all peoples of the region as a 
strategic  choice.  They  called  on  Israel  to  declare  that 
peace  is  its  strategic  choice  as  well.  The  Arab  Peace 
Initiative provided a simple and fair equation. It calls for 
a complete withdrawal of Israel from the occupied Arab 
territories to the line of 4 June 1967, the establishment 
of a Palestinian State with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
an agreed, just solution to the issue of refugees in order 
to  put  an  end  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict,  the 
achievement  of  a  peace  agreement  with  Israel  while 
ensuring  peace  for  all  peoples  of  the  region,  and  the 
establishment of normal relations with Israel as part of 
a comprehensive peace.
Sixteen  years  have  passed  since  the  adoption  of 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  Israel  has  not  made  a 
strategic choice for peace. It is still using force as if that 
will achieve peace and security. Let us address the root 
causes of that conflict rather than wasting time simply 
on  new  means  of  avoiding  the  truth  that  the  current 
situation cannot continue and is not viable. As Martin 
Luther  King  said,  “Injustice  anywhere  is  a  threat  to 
justice everywhere”.
Mr.  Wu  Haitao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Palestinian question lies at the root of the situation in 
the  Middle  East  and  affects  the  long-term  stability, 
prosperity  and  development  of  the  countries  of  the 
region. Finding a comprehensive and just solution to the 
Palestinian question as soon as possible is an aspiration 
we  all  share  that  is  in  the  interests  of  the  Palestinian 
people and the peoples of the region and will contribute 
to world peace and stability.
At  present,  relations  between  Palestine  and  Israel 
remains  tense  and  fragile,  and  developments  in  the 
situation are worrisome. Settlement construction and the 
18/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
demolition of Palestinian homes continue unabated and 
pose a threat to the realization of a two-State solution. 
The precarious humanitarian and security situation in 
the  Gaza  Strip,  including  many  civilian  casualties,  is 
detrimental  to  regional  peace  and  the  peace  process. 
Violence cannot be eradicated with more violence. The 
relevant  parties  should  exercise  restraint  in  order  to 
avoid further escalation.
The General Assembly resolutions on the protection 
of  Palestinian  civilians  should  be  fully  implemented. 
The  parties  concerned  should  lift  the  blockade  on 
Gaza as soon as possible. The international community 
should redouble its support to the United Nations Relief 
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East, take a long-term perspective and jointly bring the 
Palestinian question back to the quest for a negotiated 
solution.
First, a two-State solution is the only way to resolve 
the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict.  The 
international 
community  should  remain  committed  to  working  on 
the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions, the 
principle of land for peace and the Arab Peace Initiative, 
and to finding a comprehensive, just and lasting solution 
to  the  Palestinian  question  through  negotiation.  All 
the  relevant  parties  should  fully  implement  Security 
Council resolution 2334 (2016), immediately cease all 
settlement activities in the occupied territories and take 
measures to prevent violence against civilians.
Secondly,  the  international  community  should 
remain  united,  bring  a  heightened  sense  of  urgency 
and responsibility to the issue and launch a new round 
of  peace  efforts.  All  sides  should  work  towards  the 
same  goal,  refrain  from  any  action  or  rhetoric  that 
could  aggravate  the  situation  and  avoid  taking  any 
unilateral  measures  that  undermine  trust  in  order 
to  create  the  conditions  necessary  for  a  resumption 
of  dialogue.  Parties  that  have  major  influence  in  the 
Middle  East  should  play  a  constructive  role,  explore 
new  mechanisms  for  mediation  and  break  the  current 
impasse in the Palestinian-Israeli peace talks.
on the relevant General Assembly and Security Council 
resolutions and international consensus.
At  present,  the  hot-spot  issues  in  the  Middle 
East  are  complicated  and  intertwined.  Conflict  and 
confrontation continue and developments on the ground 
are worrying. We should focus on peace, impartiality, 
constructiveness and inclusiveness as the way to deal 
with hot-spot issues in the Middle East.
First,  we  should  keep  searching  for  a  political 
solution,  promote  dialogue  and  negotiation  and  avoid 
a vicious cycle of violence. Secondly, we must adhere 
to the principle of fairness and not extract compromise 
by coercion, turning stability into lasting peace rather 
than a mere break in the turbulence. Thirdly, we must 
bring the situation under constructive control, take its 
history  and  reality  into  account  and  gradually  foster 
a  general  atmosphere  in  which  chaos  is  contained. 
Fourthly, we should accommodate the legitimate rights 
and interests of all parties, avoid engaging in exclusive 
arrangements  and  instead  build  an  open  and  stable 
regional framework for peace.
China is a good friend and partner of the Palestinian 
people and a staunch backer of peace between Palestine 
and Israel. We firmly support and promote the Middle 
East peace process and the just cause of the Palestinian 
people  in  restoring  their  legitimate  national  rights  by 
establishing an independent Palestinian State, with full 
sovereignty, based on the 1967 borders and with East 
Jerusalem as its capital. We also support the integration 
of the State of Palestine into the international community.
Yesterday  President  Xi  Jinping  of  China  sent  a 
special  congratulatory  message  to  commemorate  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People and to express his support for Palestine. China 
will follow President Xi’s four-point proposal to promote 
a political settlement of the Palestinian issue and will 
continue to work with the international community to 
play a positive and constructive role in achieving peace 
in the Middle East.
Thirdly,  the  final  status  of  Jerusalem  is  key  to 
advancing  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  This  issue 
is  complex  and  sensitive  and  bears  on  the  future  of  a 
two-State  solution,  as  well  as  on  regional  peace  and 
tranquillity.  All  parties  should  exercise  caution  when 
dealing  with  related  issues,  avoid  imposing  solutions 
that  could  trigger  new  confrontations  and  strive  to 
reach  a  balanced  solution  through  negotiations  based 
Mr.  Hattrem  (Norway):  Norway  has  been  a 
consistent partner in the promotion of peace and security 
in  the  Middle  East  for  decades.  Our  commitment  to 
helping  to  achieve  a  negotiated  two-State  solution  is 
firm.  A  comprehensive  resolution  that  addresses  the 
final status issues and the aspirations of both peoples 
is long overdue. Only a two-State solution can provide 
durable peace and security for both parties.
18-40195
19/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
We are deeply concerned about the fragile situation 
in and around Gaza. The period from 11 to 13 November 
saw one of the fiercest exchanges of fire in Gaza since 
the  2014  conflict.  All  parties  must  work  to  prevent  a 
further escalation of violence and make a serious effort 
to stabilize the situation.
In New York on 27 September, Norway chaired a 
ministerial  meeting  of  the  international  donor  group 
to  Palestine,  the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison  Committee  for 
the  Coordination  of  the  International  Assistance  to 
Palestinians.  The  participants  welcomed  the  United 
Nations humanitarian package for Gaza and called for its 
implementation as a matter of urgency, in coordination 
with the Palestinian Authority. Norway supports these 
efforts  and  is  providing  additional  assistance  to  the 
United Nations.
Ms. Bassols Delgado (Spain), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
The Ad Hoc Liaison Committee meeting also called 
for urgent action to mitigate the damage to the Palestinian 
economy. A combination of major reductions in donor 
contributions,  significant  revenue  losses  due  to  fiscal 
leakages  and  continued  restrictions  on  Palestinian 
access and movement has led to a serious decline in the 
Palestinian economy in 2018. There is a risk of further 
deterioration  next  year  unless  the  outstanding  fiscal 
issues between the parties are addressed.
Gaza is facing severe economic, humanitarian and 
social challenges. Ensuring the unimpeded provision of 
humanitarian assistance is important for its population 
and for regional stability. There is an urgent need for 
improved access to clean water and energy, job creation 
and increased movement of people and goods in and out 
of  Gaza.  We  welcome  the  resumption  of  the  delivery 
of  fuel  to  Gaza’s  power  plant  since  October,  which 
has  significantly  increased  the  electricity  available  to 
the population.
Hamas bears a major share of the responsibility for 
the dire situation in Gaza. It is the Palestinian Authority 
and the international community, not Hamas, that are 
providing assistance to the people of Gaza. We support 
the  Egyptian  commitment  to  facilitating  Palestinian 
reconciliation,  as  well  as  the  Palestinian  Authority’s 
efforts  to  restore  its  governance  in  Gaza  and  reunite 
Palestine under one legitimate authority. But regardless 
of  that,  it  is  counterproductive  to  stop  supporting 
Gaza financially, which would further impoverish the 
population.  For  its  part,  Israel  must  lift  its  extensive 
restrictions  on  the  movement  of  people  and  goods  in 
and out of Gaza.
to 
The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) remains 
indispensable 
the  most  vulnerable  Palestinian 
refugees, providing essential services and contributing 
to regional stability. Donors must remain committed to 
supporting UNRWA, especially when the organization 
is facing a very challenging period financially.
Recent  developments  in  East  Jerusalem  and  the 
West  Bank,  including  the  decision  to  demolish  the 
village  of  Khan  Al-Ahmar,  are  of  great  concern.  We 
welcome  the  announcement  by  Israel  on  21  October 
that  it  will  delay  the  demolition  of  Khan  Al-Ahmar. 
Its location is strategically important to preserving the 
contiguity of a future Palestinian State.
Mr.  Bahr  Aluloom  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
guiding  this  meeting,  and  to  express  my  gratitude 
to  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  represented  by  its 
Chair and members, for its report (A/73/35) and their 
tireless  efforts  to  defend  the  rights  of  our  brother 
Palestinian people.
On  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People, His Excellency the President of the 
Republic  of  Iraq,  Mr.  Barham  Salih,  has  sent  a  letter 
to  the  Chair  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  which  I 
will now read out.
“I  greet  the  General  Assembly,  on  behalf  of 
Iraq,  on  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the Palestinian People, that steadfast and adamant 
people  who  have  great  hopes  for  peace  and  the 
future  despite  the  oppression  and  injustice  they 
have faced, including the deprivation of their most 
basic rights, and in particular their legitimate right 
to live in dignity and peace in an independent State 
on their land, a State that expresses their national 
identity and their political and human aspirations.
“On  behalf  of  the  Iraqi  people,  we  reiterate 
our  solidarity  with  this  fraternal  people.  We  also 
underscore  our  steadfast  determination  to  ensure 
that the world recognizes the historical importance 
of this annual celebration, which coincides with the 
General Assembly’s adoption in 1947 of resolution 
181 (II). That resolution, on the partition of Palestine, 
20/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
recognizes the responsibility of the United Nations 
for the oppression and damage that have now been 
sustained  by  the  Palestinian  people  for  nearly  71 
years. It also constitutes legal recognition of the just 
cause of the Palestinian people and the commitment 
of  the  international  community  to  the  necessary 
restoration of their legitimate rights, in accordance 
with the resolutions of the General Assembly and 
as the culmination of their just struggle to pursue 
self-determination  and  end  the  Israeli  occupation 
of their territory and homeland.
“On this occasion, the Republic of Iraq, which 
has always supported the cause of the Palestinian 
people  and  their  just  struggle  to  restore  their 
legitimate  rights,  is  alarmed  by  the  humanitarian 
suffering  sustained  by  the  Palestinian  people. 
The  Israeli  Government  persists  in  its  disregard 
for  international  resolutions  and  continues  its 
indiscriminate  shelling,  demolition  of  houses  and 
confiscation  of  land  in  the  occupied  West  Bank 
and in Gaza. It also sometimes violates holy sites 
and schools, and imposes administrative detention 
measures.  Israel 
its  expansionist 
settlement policies, building deep into Palestinian 
cities and villages in the West Bank, including East 
Jerusalem.  Other  measures  aim  to  undermine  the 
prospects  for  peace  and  abort  the  international 
community’s  efforts  to  enable  the  Palestinian 
people to establish their independent State on a par 
with the rest of the nations of the world.
is  pursuing 
“On this International Day of Solidarity with the 
Palestinian People, the Republic of Iraq reiterates 
its  firm  position  that  a  just  and  comprehensive 
solution  to  the  Palestinian  question  is  possible 
only  through  the  establishment  of  a  full-fledged 
independent  Palestinian  State  within  the  borders 
of 4 June 1967, with East Jerusalem as its capital, 
in  accordance  with  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and 
the resolutions of international legitimacy. We urge 
action to be taken to implement the provisions of 
international agreements, the Charter of the United 
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and  international  humanitarian  law,  particularly 
the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention.  We  also  reject 
any  step  that  runs  counter  to  international  law  in 
relation to Jerusalem. We call on the States of the 
world  that  have  not  yet  recognized  the  State  of 
Palestine,  notably  certain  European  States,  to  do 
so as soon as possible, as the Kingdom of Sweden 
did in 2014. We call for support for the aspirations 
of our brother Palestinian people to exercise their 
legitimate  rights,  which  would  greatly  enhance 
and consolidate security, stability and peace in the 
Middle East.
“The  Republic  of  Iraq  expresses  its  strong 
condemnation  of  all  Israeli  aggressions  against 
the  Palestinian  territories  and  its  support  for  the 
Palestinian National Authority and solidarity with 
the Palestinian people. We also call on Arab States 
and  the  international  community  to  support  the 
efforts of the Palestinian National Authority in the 
face of the negative effects of the Israeli occupation 
on  socioeconomic  development  efforts  in  the 
occupied  territories  and  East  Jerusalem,  which 
result in heavy annual losses. Full support should 
be provided to the United Nations Relief and Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East, 
given its role in assisting Palestinian refugees.
“We also call on all our Palestinian brethren to 
pursue efforts for democratic dialogue and consensus 
in order to achieve constructive reconciliation and 
consolidate  Palestinian  national  unity  as  a  shield 
for defending their legitimate rights.”
Mr.  Bermúdez  Álvarez  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): As we commemorate another anniversary of 
the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian 
People,  we  join  other  members  of  the  Organization 
in  expressing  the  hope  that  we  will  soon  witness  a 
much-desired  peace  in  the  Middle  East,  enabling  its 
population to exercise its legitimate right to be part of a 
sovereign and independent Palestinian State.
Today is the seventy-first anniversary of the General 
Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  181  (II),  which 
determined the partition of Palestine and the creation 
of two States, one Arab and one Jewish. Thanks to the 
impetus provided by that international legal act initiated 
by the Organization, Israel and Palestine were able to 
consolidate  their  identities,  rights  and  obligations  as 
States and legal entities recognized by the international 
community.  Regrettably,  this  idea  was  soon  drowned 
out by the drums of war, and the partition of Palestine 
could not be realized in line with the original plan, with 
consequences of which we are all aware.
From 
that  moment  on,  Uruguay  has  always 
staunchly  and  unwaveringly  supported  this  solution 
in the belief that it will enable Israel and Palestine to 
live  together  in  peace  within  secure  borders.  Today 
18-40195
21/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
Uruguay wants to once again affirm its support for the 
right of Israel and of Palestine to live in peace within 
secure and recognized borders, in a spirit of renewed 
cooperation  and  free  from  any  threat  or  action  that 
breaches  that  peace.  Likewise,  Uruguay  reiterates  its 
support for a solution based on two independent States, 
as we believe it is the only option that can enable Israel 
and Palestine to coexist in peace. There is no plan B, 
and there never will be.
Uruguay  maintains  ties  of  deep  friendship  with 
the State of Israel and the Palestinian State, whose full 
incorporation  into  the  Organization,  exercising  the 
right to self-determination of its people, is the logical 
outcome of the entire process it has undertaken on its 
path to affirmation as a full-fledged State. And not just 
a full-fledged State but a responsible State, capable of 
completely  eradicating  terrorism  on  its  territory  and 
eliminating  its  incitement  and  glorification,  and  of 
living in peace with the State of Israel and other States 
of the region.
Uruguay was one of the first countries to recognize 
the State of Israel and later, when we realized that this 
unfinished  process  could  no  longer  be  delayed,  we 
recognized the State of Palestine. It is essential that the 
international community step up its efforts to support 
this process and encourage the parties to return to the 
negotiating  table  with  a  view  to  reaching  a  peaceful, 
just, negotiated and lasting solution, in accordance with 
international law, that takes the interests of both parties 
into consideration. In order to achieve that, the parties 
must comply with their obligations under international 
law  and  refrain  from  taking  unilateral  decisions  that 
obstruct dialogue. Clear political signals are needed to 
break the vicious cycle of disagreement and violence.
Unfortunately,  despite 
the  many  multilateral, 
regional  and  unilateral  initiatives  that  have  been 
taken to end the conflict, we are still far from seeing 
a  peaceful  and  mutually  acceptable  solution.  For  that 
reason,  although  a  resumption  of  direct  negotiations 
may  take  time,  we  encourage  the  parties  to  do  so  in 
order  to  avoid  the  continued  paralysis  and  stalemate 
that we have witnessed for too many years.
the  Israeli  authorities 
Uruguay  remains  concerned  about  the  ongoing 
determination  of 
to  build 
settlement  housing  in  the  occupied  territories,  seize 
land  and  demolish  Palestinian  homes.  We  urge 
Israel  to  end  such  practices.  Settlements  are  illegal 
the 
under 
law  and  run  counter 
international 
to 
recommendations  of  the  Middle  East  Quartet  and  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions. We are concerned 
that if the current trend continues, a two-State solution 
will be virtually unworkable. Any gain of territory or 
exercise  of  a  misconceived  sovereignty  is  nullified  if 
the price is peace and the dismay and suffering of the 
people of the region are prolonged.
its  readiness 
Uruguay  reaffirms 
to  continue 
working  to  reactivate  the  peace  process  through  all 
existing  initiatives  in  order  to  break  the  prevailing 
status  quo  and  thereby  achieve  progress  in  the  peace 
negotiations.  It  is  time  to  begin  to  overcome  the 
hatred,  incitement,  disillusionment,  despondency  and 
frustration that afflict the Governments and peoples of 
Palestine and Israel.
Today,  as  was  the  case  more  than  70  years  ago, 
the  international  community,  which  understood  and 
favoured  this  solution,  continues  to  wait  with  bated 
breath. We are discouraged by the fact that the leaders 
ignore  the  path  that  has  been  marked  out  for  them 
in  good  faith  as  the  most  viable  towards  a  mutually 
acceptable solution that can end this long, complex and 
historic  conflict.  We  once  again  urge  them  to  return 
to dialogue.
(Indonesia): 
Ms.  Krisnamurthi 
Following 
yesterday’s  observance  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, the delegation of 
Indonesia would like to express its appreciation to the 
General Assembly for its continued efforts to support 
the inalienable rights of Palestinians.
Each year we gather here on this occasion to once 
again express a message of solidarity to our Palestinian 
brothers and sisters, returning year after year to do the 
same thing. We have settled into a routine that now sadly 
appears to be aimed more at keeping the hopes of the 
Palestinian population alive than at seeking a solution 
to the problem, and all the more so given the consistent 
and  continuing  violations  of  international  law  by  the 
occupying  Power,  while  the  Security  Council,  which 
is charged with the maintenance of international peace 
and security, appears increasingly helpless.
That  situation  reminds  me  of  the  words  of  the 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights 
in the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967, who 
characterized the situation as something of a permanent 
occupation  or  annexation.  All  the  State  organs  of  the 
occupying Power, whether the Parliament, the judiciary 
or  its  security  agencies,  deploy  various  negative 
22/24
18-40195
28/11/2018 
A/73/PV.42
tactics  and  breach  international  law  and  resolutions 
of  the  United  Nations  as  they  please.  The  occupying 
Power’s  settlement  policy,  along  with  the  continuing 
construction  of  the  separation  wall,  the  displacement 
of  Palestinians  and  the  use  of  violence,  among  other 
things, speak eloquently of its ambitions, but not of any 
interest in peace and resolution.
It  is  the  view  of  Indonesia  that  the  occupying 
Power  must  understand  that  those  policies,  as  well 
as  its  efforts  to  alter  the  demographic  composition, 
legal  status  and  character  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  can  yield  neither 
peace nor security. We again want to express our regret 
over  the  failure  of  the  United  Nations  to  stop  such 
unlawful  acts  directed  against  the  Palestinian  people 
and to protect the innocent civilians who are exposed 
to Israel’s brutality and insensitivity.
We  reiterate  that  peace  can  be  achieved  only  if 
countries respect their commitments under international 
law and their obligations under the relevant resolutions 
of the Security Council, and commit to a multilateral 
process  aimed  at  implementing  a  two-State  vision.  If 
we base our judgments on the rule of law and justice, 
they will be as clear as day in determining something 
that  is  legal,  let  alone  supported  by  several  Security 
Council  resolutions  and  the  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
In that connection, we call on Member States that 
have yet to do so to recognize the State of Palestine and 
support  the  efforts  to  end  the  occupation  and  restore 
the  basic  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people.  We  cannot 
come  up  with  a  just  solution  without  both  parties 
standing  on  an  equal  footing.  The  sad  reality  that 
we  are  witnessing  now  is  a  one-State  solution,  as  the 
performance  of  the  Security  Council  lags  far  behind 
the  cause  of  justice  and  the  world’s  expectation.  We 
urge all States to recognize the danger of delaying the 
realization  of  a  two-State  solution.  We  urge  Israel  to 
lift the illegal and dehumanizing blockade on the Gaza 
Strip, where all aspects of life have deteriorated into a 
humanitarian catastrophe.
Indonesia  condemns  all  acts  of  violence  against 
civilians,  and  warns  that  what  the  occupying  Power 
is  doing  to  the  people  of  Gaza  is  a  manifestation  of 
collective  punishment,  which  is  a  blatant  violation  of 
international  law.  We  should  remember  the  principle 
that  how  we  treat  others  is  how  we  invite  them  to 
treat us.
Indonesia  restates  its  unwavering  support  and 
recognition  of  Palestine.  We  are  pleased  to  offer  our 
full support to all the relevant draft resolutions, which 
we consider as balanced and well crafted. We reject any 
attempt to distract us from the root cause of the issue, 
which is the occupation. No issue or aspect should be 
approached  separately.  The  ultimate  goal  must  be  to 
end the occupation and fulfil all the inalienable rights 
of the Palestinian people.
Mr.  Tayel  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  Israeli 
occupation of the Palestinian territories has been going 
on for 51 years. Despite the fact that occupations are by 
nature temporary, that particular occupation is slowly 
but surely becoming semi-permanent and perpetuating 
the oldest and most serious conflict in the Middle East, 
and as such subverts any prospects for coexistence in 
the region.
The international community has always called for 
a resolution to the Palestinian question, in harmony with 
Palestinians’  legitimate  right  to  self-determination, 
pursuant  to  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples 
to  coexist  side  by  side  in  peace  in  two  independent 
States, in accordance with the relevant United Nations 
resolutions  and  on  the  basis  of  the  borders  of  4  June 
1967. Today, however, a quarter of a century after the 
Oslo Accords, instead of a sovereign Palestinian State 
we are witnessing a quasi-State of illegal settlements, 
with a population of almost 500,000, that is expanding 
throughout  the  Palestinian  territories  and  is  about 
to  irreversibly  undermine  the  possibility  of  a  two-
State solution.
Indeed,  to  be  clear,  we  are  not  meeting  at  the 
United  Nations  to  discuss  the  items  related  to  the 
Palestinian question, whether in the General Assembly 
or  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to  target  any  one 
party  or  strip  it  of  its  legitimacy.  On  the  contrary, 
our  discussions  are  based  on  what  the  Organization 
recognized 70 years ago, which was the establishment 
of Israel. When we recognized the right of Israel to its 
independent State and the right of the Israeli people to 
live safely within their borders, that right was directly 
linked to the establishment of a Palestinian State and a 
similar right for the Palestinian people.
The implementation of the second part of resolution 
181 (II) has been overdue for 70 years. The Palestinian 
question has therefore become the core of the various 
crises in the Middle East, despite the availability of legal 
18-40195
23/24
A/73/PV.42 
28/11/2018
and  political  avenues,  including  the  relevant  General 
Assembly and Security Council resolutions, the latest 
of  which  is  resolution  2334  (2016). In  that  context, 
the  annual  renewal  of  the  international  community’s 
commitments through the General Assembly’s adoption 
of  resolutions  supporting  the  settlement  of  this  issue 
and  the  establishment  of  the  State  of  Palestine  is  the 
only remaining ray of hope for the Palestinian people. 
As their rights are undermined on the ground, our role 
at  the  United  Nations  is  therefore  to  preserve  those 
inalienable rights until the parties and politicians with 
influence  recognize  that  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli 
peoples are here to stay on the same land and share the 
same fate. No one people of the two can live in peace 
and  safety  without  recognizing  the  right  of  the  other 
to  land  and  peace.  Everyone  knows  that  the  accepted 
and  viable  parameters  for  resolving  that  issue  are 
the  principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the  1967  borders, 
including Jerusalem.
I  hope  that  everyone  will  realize  that  the  choices 
for the Palestinians and Israelis are limited. They must 
either return to the negotiating table, on the basis of a two-
State solution and the 1967 borders, as well as the Arab 
Peace  Initiative,  or  implement  a  unilateral  one-State 
solution that has been rejected by both peoples for very 
logical reasons. The third choice — to foment populism 
leading  to  an  uncontrollable,  sustained  conflict  that 
would deprive the Palestinian and Israeli peoples of all 
hope of living a normal life like that of all peoples of 
the world — is too frightening to comtemplate.
I am certain that Egypt’s experience of achieving 
peace with Israel can be replicated. Until that reality is 
recognized by all parties, and until serious negotiations 
for  reaching  a  settlement  are  launched,  this  year  we 
must  once  again  shoulder  our  responsibility  to  the 
parties  to  preserve  the  international  legal  order  that 
governs all our relations and renew our commitment to 
the criteria of peace during the current session of the 
General Assembly.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): We have 
heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item  for 
today. We will continue the debate tomorrow at 10 a.m., 
followed  by  action  on  draft  resolutions  under  agenda 
items 39 and 38.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
24/24
18-40195
