United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
56th plenary meeting
Monday, 17 December 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 74 (continued)
Promotion and protection of human rights
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special 
rapporteurs and representatives
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/589/
Add.3)
Draft amendment (A/73/L.60)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
continue to hear explanations of vote before the voting.
I  first  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan to introduce draft amendment A/73/L.60.
(Sudan) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Mohamed 
in  Arabic): 
Unfortunately, the consensus, if not unanimity, that the 
General  Assembly  enjoyed  while  voting  on  a  number 
of  issues  has  been  undermined  through  an  initiative 
launched  by  several  States,  in  particular  our  friends 
in  the  European  Union,  to  include  a  call  to  join  the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  draft  resolutions  that 
deal  with  such  issues.  Over  time,  such  referrals  have 
led to extreme polarization, particularly following the 
decision taken by some States to refer to the authority 
of the International Criminal Court as an integral part 
of  their  foreign  policies.  Those  States  seek  to  link 
humanitarian assistance and economic cooperation with 
the  stance  of  other  countries  towards  the  Court.  That 
has  coincided  with  the  Court’s  attempts  to  single  out 
Africa and its leaders exclusively, which has had serious 
political and strategic repercussions for countries that 
are targeted by the Court if they try to depart from its 
regional jurisdiction on the African continent.
The  number  of  cases  that  are  currently  before 
the  Court,  the  pending  cases  in  its  chambers  and  the 
exorbitant  amount  of  money  spent  on  each  case  very 
clearly illustrate that the International Criminal Court 
has  not  succeeded  and  will  not  succeed  in  effectively 
fulfilling its mandate, given its unacceptable selectivity, 
while it claims to be an independent judicial body. Those 
issues add to the danger posed by the Court due to its 
flagrant  activity,  clear  preference  and  political  bias, 
while  trying  to  single  out  African  leaders  with  arrest 
warrants  and  putting  political  considerations  before 
reconciliation,  peace  and  post-conflict  rehabilitation. 
All  those  factors  pose  an  imminent  danger  for  social 
peace and national unity in developing countries. The 
Court has simultaneously undermined peace and justice.
With regard to draft resolution I, entitled “Situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea”, since 2014 we have faced serious obstacles 
from proponents of the Court. In accordance with the 
rules of procedure, we therefore wish to introduce draft 
amendment A/73/L.60, which proposes the deletion of 
operative paragraph 12. We call on Member States to 
vote in favour of it.
Mr.  Hassani  Nejad  Pirkouhi  (Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran):  I  deliver  this  statement  in  relation  to  draft 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-44309 (E)
*1844309*

A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
resolution II, on the so-called situation of human rights 
in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
This is another unfortunate instance of the General 
Assembly  being  forced  into  taking  a  deeply  biased 
and  politicized  decision,  which  further  erodes  the 
credibility of the United Nations. This political charade, 
which is annually orchestrated by Canada, has only one 
objective:  to  put  political  pressure  on  my  people  by 
abusing the noble cause of human rights.
There  are  no  greater  adversaries  to  human  rights 
and  democracy  than  the  countries  that  conveniently 
exploit those belonging to the nations and Governments 
they dislike. In fact, the biggest threat to human rights 
comes  from  hypocrisy,  politicization  and  double 
standards.  Such  Governments  are  not  confronting 
their  political  foes;  rather,  they  are  condemning  the 
cause of human rights itself. Their foreign policies, by 
default, are run on hypocrisy, inconsistency and double 
standards. That is clearly reflected in the behaviour of 
the  main  proponents  of  draft  resolution  II,  presented 
by Canada.
Canada needs to realize that such a pointless and 
futile  exercise  disrespects  the  wisdom  of  the  people 
who observe its selective stance on the issue of human 
rights. Sadly, each year the main sponsors of the draft 
resolution  wage  a  vigorous  campaign  of  pressure  and 
intimidation, while collecting votes by putting pressure 
on Member States. Reaping votes by threatening cuts 
in  financial  or  development  funds  will  not  contribute 
to  promoting  human  rights;  rather,  it  further  exposes 
the dishonesty of such States and should be viewed as 
another clear assault on the cause of human rights.
The  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
recognizes  that  promoting  and  protecting  the  human 
rights  of  its  citizens  is  not  only  a  legal  and  moral 
responsibility,  but  also  a  paramount  requirement  of 
its national security. During the past four decades, the 
people’s voice, expressed through ballots, has decided 
the  country’s  overall  policies  in  both  internal  and 
foreign affairs. Regardless of the challenges, Iranians 
will  never  give  up  their  enthusiasm  for  human  rights 
and their dreams for democracy.
Similar to other countries, deficiencies may exist, 
which we are determined to address. However, it is not 
for  those  countries  that  traditionally,  historically  and 
practically  supported  colonialism,  slavery,  racism, 
apartheid, torture, pre-emptive wars and interventions 
to lecture Iranians on human rights. Those are the same 
countries that openly glorify terrorists and separatists, 
including in the very draft resolution that the General 
Assembly  will  act  upon.  Those  are  exactly  the  States 
that are brazenly committing crimes against humanity 
by weaponizing food, drugs and medicines, imposing 
unilateral  sanctions  against  civilians  in  my  country 
and elsewhere.
We  regret  that  a  few  unscrupulous  Governments 
continue  to  challenge  the  integrity  and  credibility  of 
the United Nations by forcing it to make decisions that 
are absolutely irrelevant to the realities on the ground. 
The Assembly may have already decided how to vote, 
but please remember that rejecting and voting against 
this futile draft resolution is a step in the right direction 
towards the protection and promotion of human rights. 
Please  remember  that,  unlike  those  few  that  have 
historically  abused  human  rights  as  instruments  in 
their  foreign  policy  tool  boxes,  Iran  continues  to 
earnestly  believe  in  dialogue  that  is  based  on  mutual 
understanding,  cooperation  and  respect  in  order  to 
promote and protect human rights.
Mr.  Kickert  (Austria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and  its 
member States.
We  deeply  regret  that  the  Sudan  has  yet  again 
introduced a draft amendment (A/73/L.60) seeking to 
delete  references  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC).  That  issue  has  already  been  duly  considered 
in  the  Third  Committee  and  this  morning  (see  A/73/
PV.55),  and  the  outcome  of  that  consideration  was  a 
clear rejection of the respective draft amendment.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  consider  the  fight 
against impunity for the most serious crimes as critical 
to  ensuring  a  fair  and  just  society  and  sustainable 
peace,  with  perpetrators  held  accountable  and  justice 
ensured  for  victims.  We  also  believe  that  peace  and 
justice are complementary and not mutually exclusive. 
We are strong supporters of the International Criminal 
Court, which is a key institution that assists victims in 
achieving justice when confronted with the most serious 
crimes, when that is not possible at the national level.
All  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  must  be  held 
accountable for their actions. The creation of the ICC 
has given millions of victims of atrocity crimes, many 
of  whom  are  African,  new  hope  that  justice  will  be 
done. States from all over the world have joined efforts 
to  make  that  possible.  The  28  States  members  of  the 
European  Union  will  therefore  vote  against  the  draft 
2/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
amendment  proposed  by  the  Sudan.  We  call  on  all 
other  States,  in  particular  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court, to also vote 
against it.
Mr.  Kuzmin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian):  Our  delegation  has  traditionally  refrained 
from  supporting  so-called  country-specific  draft 
resolutions on human rights, which are often based on 
unreliable  information  and  have  little  to  do  with  the 
real  state  of  affairs.  Such  openly  political  initiatives 
discredit  the  human  rights  structures  of  the  United 
Nations. Rather than continuing the counterproductive 
practice of making unfounded accusations, we should 
focus  our  efforts  on  establishing  cooperation  on  an 
equal footing and a basis of mutual respect.
We outlined our position on country-specific draft 
resolutions  in  the  Third  Committee,  and  it  has  not 
changed.  We  will  vote  against  the  draft  resolutions 
on  the  human  rights  situations  in  Iran,  Myanmar  and 
Syria, and we dissociate ourselves from the consensus 
on the draft resolution on the situation of human rights 
in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): I have the honour 
of  delivering  this  statement  on  behalf  of  Andorra, 
Austria,  Belgium,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Costa  Rica,  the 
Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Georgia, 
Germany, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Monaco,  the 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal. 
Qatar,  Romania,  Saudi  Arabia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and my 
own country, Liechtenstein.
International, 
Draft  resolution  IV,  entitled  “Situation  of  human 
rights  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic”,  again  this  year 
reflects  recent  developments  in  the  atrocious  human 
rights  situation  in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  as  set 
out  in  the  reports  of  the  accountability  mechanism, 
the 
Independent 
Mechanism;  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of 
Chemical Weapons-United Nations Joint Investigative 
Mechanism; the Independent International Commission 
of Inquiry; as well as the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights and many brave 
civil society actors.
Impartial 
and 
We are deeply concerned about the well-documented 
abhorrent  crimes  that  constitute  serious  violations 
of  international  law,  in  particular  international  law, 
humanitarian law and human rights law, in many cases 
amounting to war crimes or crimes against humanity. 
We welcome the draft resolution’s emphasis on the need 
for accountability and continue to reiterate our call on 
the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  which  can  ensure 
a  comprehensive  judicial  process  for  all  the  relevant 
crimes committed by all actors in Syria.
In  the  absence  of  a  Security  Council  referral, 
the  General  Assembly  has  taken  a  much-needed 
first  step  to  close  the  immense  immunity  gap  by 
creating  the  International,  Impartial  and  Independent 
Mechanism,  which  is  carrying  out  its  functions  with 
remarkable  effectiveness  and  success.  With 
the 
overwhelming  support  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
International,  Impartial  and  Independent  Mechanism 
is  fully  operational  and  discharges  its  mandate  in  a 
diligent  manner,  with  the  seriousness  and  breadth  of 
expertise  needed,  to  prepare  case  files  for  the  many 
different  grave  crimes  committed.  We  welcome  that 
the draft resolution before us supports those efforts in 
practical terms.
Paragraph 31 mandates the International, Impartial 
and  Independent  Mechanism  to  present  its  reports  on 
an annual basis to the plenary of the General Assembly, 
under  the  existing  agenda  item  entitled  “Prevention 
of  armed  conflict”,  under  which  the  International, 
Impartial  and  Independent  Mechanism  was  created 
two years ago. The paragraph is fully in line with the 
existing  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly 
and adds clarification to the relationship of the General 
Assembly  and  its  subsidiary  body  the  International, 
Impartial and Independent Mechanism.
Paragraph 32 notes the steps taken by the Secretary-
General  in  response  to  last  year’s  decision  to  include 
the  necessary  funding  for  the  Mechanism  in  his  next 
budget  proposal.  The  transfer  of  the  Mechanism’s 
funding  from  voluntary  contributions  to  the  regular 
budget corresponds to the wish of a large majority of 
States that agreed to it last year. It does not come with 
programme budget implications, as incorrectly claimed 
by  some.  With  those  provisions,  the  draft  resolution 
makes an important contribution to the quest for justice 
for victims of the crimes committed in the Syrian Arab 
Republic. We call upon all States to vote in favour of 
the  draft  resolution  and  to  oppose  attempts  to  amend 
or alter it.
Mr.  Budhu  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 
honour  to  deliver  this  explanation  of  vote  before  the 
18-44309
3/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
voting on a number of draft resolutions presented under 
sub-item (c) of agenda item 74.
Trinidad and Tobago is committed to upholding the 
rule of law at the national and international levels. In that 
regard, our Constitution, which is our supreme law, has 
entrenched fundamental human rights and freedoms, in 
keeping with our legally binding obligations that arise 
from  various  global  and  hemispheric  human  rights 
instruments. Consequently, we condemn all violations 
of  human  rights,  wherever  they  are  committed,  as 
we subscribe to the view that the human rights of the 
individual  are  inviolable.  As  a  responsible  member 
of  the  international  community,  we  are  committed 
to  ensuring  that  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms are globally promoted and protected.
However,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  wishes  to  recall 
that  the  Human  Rights  Council,  an  independent 
and  impartial  body,  was  established  by  the  General 
Assembly  to  address  violations  of  human  rights 
in  Member  States,  including  through  its  Universal 
Periodic  Review  process  and  its  special  procedures. 
Additionally, it must also be recalled that human rights 
treaty  bodies  established  by  different  conventions 
and  treaties  contribute  to  addressing  human  rights 
violations  through  monitoring  the  implementation  of 
treaties by States parties.
Accordingly,  we  have  some  difficulty  with  the 
selectivity  with  which  draft  resolutions  were  put 
forward  on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  certain 
countries and the apparent politicization of those issues 
in  this  forum.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  submits  that  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  treaty  bodies  should  be 
allowed to discharge their mandates and to examine in 
a  dispassionate  manner  the  question  of  human  rights 
violations  in  any  Member  State.  We  also  subscribe 
to  the  view  that  mutual  dialogue,  cooperation  and 
understanding  are  key  to  improving  human  rights 
situations, as they contribute to creating an environment 
in which there can be meaningful action.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  therefore  encourages  all 
Member  States  to  cooperate  with  the  Human  Rights 
Council  special  procedures  and  treaty  bodies  in  that 
regard.  For  those  reasons,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  will 
abstain in the voting on the draft resolutions submitted 
under sub-item (c) of agenda item 74.
Mr.  Kim  Song  (Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea):  I  already  made  a  statement  this  morning  (see 
A/73/PV.55) with regard to sub-item (c) of agenda item 
74,  so  I  will  not  repeat  the  same  things  again.  I  will, 
however, very briefly emphasize the key points of my 
statement for the General Assembly’s understanding.
First,  my  delegation  totally  and  categorically 
rejects draft resolution I, entitled “Situation of human 
rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”, 
as a product of a political plot by hostile forces aimed 
at  disgracing  the  image  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and overthrowing our political and 
social system.
Secondly, the text of the draft resolution is consistent 
with the ongoing lies and that plot and severely distorts 
the real human rights situation in my country.
Thirdly,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea maintains a consistent and principled position of 
solving all issues through dialogue and negotiation. We 
cannot  compromise  with  confrontational  approaches, 
such  as  that  of  the  draft  resolution  presented  by  the 
European Union and Japan, and we will not be forced 
to adopt the draft resolution against my country.
Finally, we neither recognize nor accept the draft 
resolution, and therefore never feel any need to call for 
a vote.
(spoke 
Mr.  Poveda  Brito 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of 
in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela  wishes  to  explain  its  position 
regarding  the  draft  resolutions  under  sub-item  (c)  of 
agenda item 74, to be acted upon in this meeting and 
relating  to  country-specific  human  rights  situations, 
namely, draft resolution I, on the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  draft  resolution  II,  on  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran, and draft resolution IV, on the Syrian 
Arab Republic.
In  that  regard,  Venezuela  wishes  to  reaffirm  its 
principled position with regard to the adoption of draft 
resolutions, special procedures and other mechanisms 
on  country-specific  human  rights  situations,  while 
rejecting politically motivated selectivity in addressing 
those  issues,  as  that  constitutes  a  violation  of  the 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  As 
well as exceeding the remit of the Committees of the 
General Assembly, the continued practice of selectively 
adopting draft resolutions relating to country-specific 
human  rights  situations  violates  the  principles  of 
universality,  objectivity  and  non-selectivity  that  we 
should employ when addressing human rights issues.
4/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
Cooperation  and  dialogue  are  the  appropriate 
means and essential principles for effectively promoting 
and protecting human rights. In that regard, we support 
the  ongoing  calls  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries  concerning  this  issue.  Venezuela  urges 
States to build on the positive progress made since the 
establishment of the Human Rights Council and to foster 
the Universal Periodic Review mechanism as a form of 
cooperation  to  address  the  issue  of  human  rights.  We 
call  for  the  elimination  of  the  practice  of  selectively 
adopting draft resolutions concerning countries, which 
weakens the mandate of the Human Rights Council.
Finally,  on  the  basis  of  our  principled  position, 
Venezuela will vote against the draft resolutions to be 
put to the vote and we disassociate ourselves from the 
consensus on draft resolution I.
Mr. Xing Jisheng (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
consistently  maintains  that  human  rights  differences 
should  be  resolved  through  constructive  dialogue  and 
cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual respect. 
We reject the politicization of human rights issues and 
the  exertion  of  pressure  on  other  countries  under  the 
pretence of human rights. We also reject the practice of 
country-specific human rights draft resolutions.
In  view  of  those  reasons,  the  Chinese  delegation 
will  not  join  the  consensus  on  draft  resolution  I,  on 
the human rights situation in the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  and  will  also  vote  against  other 
human rights-related country-specific draft resolutions.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take action on draft resolutions I, II and IV.
We turn first to draft resolution I, entitled “Situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea”.  In  connection  with  draft  resolution  I,  the 
General  Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft  amendment 
circulated  in  document  A/73/L.60.  In  accordance 
with  rule  90  of  the  rules  of  procedure,  the  Assembly 
shall  first  take  a  decision  on  the  draft  amendment.  A 
recorded vote has been requested.
South  Sudan,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Yemen, Zimbabwe
Against:
Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, 
Belize, Benin, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cabo  Verde,  Canada,  Chile, 
Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Fiji, 
Finland,  France,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati, 
Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Maldives,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of),  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Namibia,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, Saint Kitts 
and  Nevis,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad 
and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Ukraine,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay, 
Vanuatu, Zambia
Abstaining:
Algeria,  Angola,  Barbados,  Bhutan,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Central 
African  Republic,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia,  Israel, 
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritius, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Nepal,  Niger,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Qatar,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Singapore,  Sri  Lanka,  Suriname,  Thailand,  Togo, 
Turkey,  Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  United  States  of  America, 
Viet Nam
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Burundi,  China,  Cuba, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Egypt, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Oman, Pakistan, 
Russian  Federation,  Saudi  Arabia,  Seychelles, 
Draft  amendment  A/73/L.60  was  rejected  by  95 
votes to 19, with 43 abstentions.
The  Acting  President:  We  now  turn  to  draft 
resolution I, as a whole. The Third Committee adopted 
it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
18-44309
5/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
Draft  resolution  I,  as  a  whole,  was  adopted 
(resolution 73/180).
The Acting President: Draft resolution II is entitled 
“Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of 
Iran”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda, 
Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, 
Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark, Djibouti, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, 
France,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Haiti, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 
Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Maldives,  Malta, 
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Palau,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia, 
Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Seychelles, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South Sudan, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Tuvalu, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States of America, Vanuatu, Yemen
Against:
Belarus, 
Armenia, 
Afghanistan, 
Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  China,  Cuba,  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Eritrea, 
India, 
Indonesia, 
Iraq, 
(Islamic  Republic  of), 
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lebanon,  Nicaragua, 
Oman, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Serbia, South 
Africa,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Turkmenistan, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Zimbabwe
Iran 
Abstaining:
Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Cabo 
Verde, Cameroon, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Côte 
d’Ivoire, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon, 
Gambia,  Ghana,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Malaysia, 
Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Mongolia, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal, 
Niger,  Nigeria,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Philippines, 
Qatar, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Uganda,  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania, Uruguay, Zambia
Draft resolution II was adopted by 84 to 30, with 67 
abstentions (resolution 73/181).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  IV  is 
entitled “Situation of human rights in the Syrian Arab 
Republic”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Iceland, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda, 
Argentina,  Australia,  Austria,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Botswana, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Cabo  Verde, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Central  African  Republic, 
Chile,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guyana, 
Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Ireland, 
Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, 
Marshall  Islands,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated 
States  of),  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Morocco, 
Nauru,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway, 
Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Seychelles,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Thailand, 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Turkey,  Tuvalu, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Yemen
the 
6/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
Against:
Algeria,  Belarus,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State 
of),  Burundi,  China,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of), 
Mauritania, Nicaragua, Russian Federation, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Afghanistan,  Angola,  Armenia,  Bangladesh, 
Bhutan,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Ghana,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Madagascar,  Mali,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Niger, 
Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Philippines, 
Rwanda,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South 
Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Suriname, Tajikistan, 
Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Uganda, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia
Draft resolution IV was adopted by 111 to 15, with 
55 abstentions (resolution 73/182).
The Acting President: I shall now give the floor 
to those delegations wishing to speak in explanation of 
vote after the voting.
Ms.  Elmansouri  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
country abstained in the voting on resolution 73/182, on 
the human rights situation in the Syrian Arab Republic. 
In that connection, my country’s delegation would like 
to emphasize our rejection of all human rights violations 
committed  since  the  beginning  of  the  Syrian  crisis, 
regardless of the perpetrators. We call on all parties to 
respect their commitments under international human 
rights  law  and  international  humanitarian  law,  and 
to  providing  the  necessary  protection  to  defenceless 
civilians.  Tunisia  also  calls  for  all  perpetrators  of 
crimes  and  grave  violations  of  human  rights  to  be 
held accountable and to ensure that they do not enjoy 
impunity. My country is convinced that, if all parties 
reject escalations of violence, mitigate the suffering of 
the Syrian people and respect human rights, we will be 
able to create a political climate conducive to moving 
forward  towards  a  complete  resolution  of  the  Syrian 
crisis, under the auspices of the United Nations. That 
will enable our brotherly Syrian people to re-establish 
peace  and  security  and  look  towards  reconstruction 
and development.
Mr.  Hassani  Nejad  Pirkouhi  (Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran):  My  delegation  disassociates  itself  from  the 
consensus  on  resolution  73/180,  entitled  “Situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea”.  In  our  view, 
takes  a 
and 
confrontational  approach 
counter-productive 
and  contravenes 
the  principles  of  universality, 
non-selectivity  and  objectivity  in  addressing  human 
rights issues.
the  resolution 
Mr.  Cepero  Aguilar  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  Cuban  delegation  disassociates  itself  from  the 
consensus  on  resolution  73/180,  entitled  “Situation  of 
human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea”, in line with our stance against the imposition 
of  selective  and  politically  motivated  resolutions 
and  mandates.  We  believe  that  genuine  international 
cooperation  based  on  the  principles  of  objectivity, 
impartiality  and  non-selectivity  is  the  only  way  to 
effectively promote and protect all human rights.
We urge that, in this case, as in others, the Universal 
Periodic Review mechanism be given the opportunity to 
foster a discussion free of politicization or confrontation 
and to stimulate respectful cooperation with the country 
concerned. The resolution continues down the path of 
sanctions  and  dangerously  and  counter-productively 
involves the Security Council in matters that do not fall 
under its remit.
Cuba  can  therefore  not  join  the  consensus  on  a 
resolution  that  seeks  to  safeguard  Security  Council 
punishment  and  sanctions  in  situations  that  do  not 
infringe on international peace and security. We cannot 
be complicit in the attempts to deny the people of the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  their  right 
to  peace,  self-determination  and  development.  We 
wish  to  point  out  that  the  opposition  to  this  selective 
and  politicized  mandate  does  not  promote  any  value 
judgement on the other outstanding issues that are set 
out  in  the  twentieth  paragraph.  Those  call  for  a  fair 
and  honourable  solution,  with  the  agreement  of  all 
interested parties.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Saudi Arabia on a point of order.
Mr.  Khashaan  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
First, my country’s delegation would like to point out 
that the name of my country is the Kingdom of Saudi 
18-44309
7/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
Arabia, not the Saudi regime. Moreover, my country’s 
delegation refuses to enter into the mire into which the 
Syrian delegation is dragging us.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
sub-item (c) of agenda item 74.
(d) Comprehensive implementation of and follow-
up to the Vienna Declaration and Programme 
of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/589/
Add.4)
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General Assembly wishes to take note of the report of 
the Third Committee?
It was so decided (decision 73/526).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (d) of agenda item 74?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 74.
Agenda item 109
Crime prevention and criminal justice
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/590)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  before 
it  nine  draft  resolutions  recommended  by  the  Third 
Committee  in  paragraph  45  of  its  report  and  a  draft 
decision recommended by the Committee in paragraph 
46 of the same report. We shall now take a decision on 
draft resolutions I to IX and on the draft decision, one 
by one.
Draft  resolution  I  is  entitled  “Enhancing  the  role 
of the Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal 
Justice  in  contributing  to  the  implementation  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. The Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 73/183).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  II  is 
entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  Thirteenth  United  Nations 
Congress  on  Crime  Prevention  and  Criminal  Justice 
and  preparations  for  the  Fourteenth  United  Nations 
Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice”. 
The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I 
take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 73/184).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  III  is 
entitled “The rule of law, crime prevention and criminal 
justice  in  the  context  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals”. The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 73/185).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  IV  is 
entitled  “Strengthening  the  United  Nations  crime 
prevention  and  criminal 
in 
particular  its  technical  cooperation  capacity”.  The 
Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take 
it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
justice  programme, 
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 73/186).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  V  is 
entitled  “Countering  the  use  of  information  and 
communications  technologies  for  criminal  purposes”. 
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria,  Angola,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bahrain, 
Belarus,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia, 
Cameroon,  Chad,  China,  Congo,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Cuba,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial 
Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mongolia, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Palau,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Serbia,  Seychelles,  Singapore,  Somalia,  South 
Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
8/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Togo, 
Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Dominican  Republic,  Estonia,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Kiribati, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated 
States  of),  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America, Vanuatu
Abstaining:
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Bahamas, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Cabo  Verde,  Colombia, 
Costa  Rica,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti, 
Fiji,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Nauru,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Rwanda,  Samoa, 
Senegal, Timor-Leste, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uruguay
Draft resolution V was adopted by 94 votes to 59, 
with 33 abstentions (resolution 73/187).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  VI  is 
entitled  “United  Nations  African  Institute  for  the 
Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders”. 
The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I 
take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft  resolution  VII  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/189).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  VIII  is 
entitled  “Preventing  and  combating  corrupt  practices 
and the transfer of proceeds of corruption, facilitating 
asset recovery and returning such assets to legitimate 
owners, 
in 
accordance with the United Nations Convention against 
Corruption”. The Third Committee adopted it without 
a  vote.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to 
do likewise?
to  countries  of  origin, 
in  particular 
Draft  resolution  VIII  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/190).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  IX  is 
entitled  “Special  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
against  corruption”.  The  Third  Committee  adopted  it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
Draft resolution IX was adopted (resolution 73/191).
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  turn  to 
paragraph 46 of the report to take action on the draft 
decision  entitled  “Documents  considered  by 
the 
General  Assembly  in  connection  with  the  question 
of  crime  prevention  and  criminal  justice”.  The  Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft decision was adopted (decision 73/527).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 109.
Agenda item 110
International drug control
Draft resolution VI was adopted (resolution 73/188).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  VII 
is  entitled  “Strengthening  and  promoting  effective 
measures  and  international  cooperation  on  organ 
donation  and  transplantation  to  prevent  and  combat 
trafficking  in  persons  for  the  purpose  of  organ 
removal and trafficking in human organs”. The Third 
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/591)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a 
draft resolution recommended by the Third Committee 
in paragraph 10 of its report.
We shall now take a decision on the draft resolution, 
entitled  “International  cooperation  to  address  and 
counter the world drug problem”. The Third Committee 
18-44309
9/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do likewise?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 73/192).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 110?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 123 (continued)
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/592)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it 
a draft decision recommended by the Third Committee 
in paragraph 6 of its report.
We shall now take a decision on the draft decision, 
entitled “Programme of work of the Third Committee 
for the seventy-fourth session of the General Assembly”. 
The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I 
take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
The draft decision was adopted (decision 73/528).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 123.
Agenda item 137 (continued)
Programme planning
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/593)
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General Assembly wishes to take note of the report of 
the Third Committee?
It was so decided (decision 73/529).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 137.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I would like to 
thank His Excellency Mr. Mahmoud Saikal, Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan  to  the  United  Nations 
and  Chair  of  the  Third  Committee,  as  well  as  the 
members  of  the  Bureau  and  representatives  for  a  job 
well done.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration of all the reports of the Third Committee 
before it today.
Agenda item 3 (continued)
Credentials of representatives to the seventy-third 
session of the General Assembly
(b) Report of the Credentials Committee 
(A/73/600)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  before 
it a draft resolution recommended by the Committee in 
paragraph 12 of its report.
I should like to note that, since the meeting of the 
Credentials Committee, formal credentials in the form 
required  by  rule  27  of  the  rules  of  procedure  were 
submitted  by  Madagascar  and  the  United  Kingdom. 
The  General  Assembly  therefore  has  before  it  a  draft 
resolution  approving  the  report  of  the  Credentials 
Committee  and  the  additional  credentials  submitted 
subsequent to the meeting of the Credentials Committee.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision 
on 
the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Credentials  of 
representatives  to  the  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General Assembly”. The Committee adopted it without 
a  vote.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  do 
the same?
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/193).
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  who 
wishes to speak in explanation of postion following the 
resolution just adopted.
Mr.  Mamdouhi  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  My 
delegation  joined  the  consensus  on  resolution  73/193, 
just  adopted.  However,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  reservations  about 
the 
report  contained  in  document  A/73/600  and  in  the 
resolution  that  could  be  construed  as  recognizing  the 
Israeli regime.
the  parts  of 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 3 and of 
agenda item 3 as a whole?
It was so decided.
10/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
Agenda item 34
Prevention of armed conflict
(a) Prevention of armed conflict
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/295)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.47)
Draft amendment (A/73/L.68)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Ukraine to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.47.
Mr.  Kyslytsya 
(Ukraine):  Draft 
resolution 
A/73/L.47, which I have the honour to introduce today 
under sub-item (a) of agenda item 34, entitled “Prevention 
of  armed  conflict”,  focuses  on  a  pressing  legal  and 
political  issue  —  the  problem  of  the  militarization  of 
the  occupied  territory  of  Ukraine,  in  particular  the 
Crimean  peninsula  and  respective  parts  of  the  Black 
Sea and the Sea of Azov. The draft resolution addresses 
a matter of fundamental concern to my country and, I 
believe, the broader United Nations membership.
The  Autonomous  Republic  of  Crimea  and  the 
city of Sevastopol have been occupied by the Russian 
Federation since February 2014. The attempt to annex 
that sovereign Ukrainian territory was not recognized 
by the international community, which was confirmed 
by  resolution  68/262,  on  the  territorial  integrity  of 
Ukraine. Following the Russian Federation’s occupation 
of Crimea, it has progressively militarized the Crimean 
peninsula,  which  includes  in  particular  destabilizing 
transfers  by  Russia  of  weapon  systems,  including 
nuclear-capable  aircraft  and  missiles,  weapons, 
ammunition  and  military  personnel  to  the  territory 
of Ukraine.
The  occupation  and  subsequent  militarization  of 
Crimea led to the expansion of the area of use of Russian 
warships and military aircraft in the Black Sea region 
and  far  beyond  in  the  entire  Mediterranean  basin.  As 
such,  that  activity  has  far-reaching  consequences  for 
security in not only the Black Sea region, but also the 
whole of Southern Europe, as well as North Africa and 
the Middle East.
Multiple  military  exercises  conducted  by  Russian 
armed forces in Crimea and in the area reflect Russia’s 
aggressive policy towards Ukraine and other Black Sea 
littoral States. Such exercises also entail considerable 
A/73/PV.56
long-term  negative  environmental  consequences  in 
the region.
The Russian Federation is also actively militarizing 
the Sea of Azov by increasing the number of warships 
and their expansion to the whole territory of the Sea. 
As  an  example,  in  October  the  Russian  Government 
allocated  a  huge  designated  area  in  the  Sea  of  Azov 
to the Russian Defence Ministry. That area is located 
just  65  kilometres  from  the  city  of  Mariupol,  one  of 
Ukraine’s largest seaport cities.
The progressing militarization of the Sea of Azov 
not  only  has  implications  for  maritime  trade  and 
supplies  into  Ukraine,  but  also  poses  an  additional 
military threat to Ukraine and is leading to an escalation 
of  the  security  situation  in  the  region.  The  illegal 
construction of the Kerch Strait bridge between Russia 
and  temporarily  occupied  Crimea  has  substantially 
contributed to that threat, in particular by facilitating 
further  militarization  of  Crimea  and  the  involvement 
of additional Russian maritime and other forces in the 
area  under  the  pretext  of  protecting  the  bridge  and 
its infrastructure.
As a result, on 25 November a group of Ukrainian 
naval vessels was deliberately attacked by the Russian 
border  guard  patrol  in  the  Black  Sea  near  the  Kerch 
Strait. Russia adopted a shoot-to-kill policy by openly 
firing at the Ukrainian servicemen and then ramming 
the  Ukrainian  vessels,  which  were  in  the  process 
of  conducting  legitimate  and  peaceful  transits  to  a 
Ukrainian port.
That  attack  represents  yet  another  blatant  and 
barefaced  act  of  military  aggression  against  Ukraine 
by  the  Russian  Federation.  Three  Ukrainian  military 
vessels were shot at and then seized by the Russians in 
the waters beyond the 12-mile zone in the Black Sea on 
their way back to Odessa port. Twenty-four Ukrainian 
servicemen  were  seized  and  imprisoned,  with  six 
wounded,  including  two  in  critical  condition,  and 
paraded on Russian television as part of a show trial. 
The  provocative  actions  of  the  Russian  Federation  in 
the Sea of Azov were condemned by Security Council 
member  States  during  the  briefing  requested  by  the 
delegation of Ukraine on 26 November (see S/PV.8410). 
The Secretary-General, in turn, also sounded an alarm.
Given  the  current  volatile  security  situation  in 
the  mentioned  areas  and  its  far-reaching  negative 
implications, Ukraine, together with Australia, Austria, 
the  Czech  Republic, 
Bulgaria,  Canada,  Croatia, 
18-44309
11/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Montenegro,  the  Netherlands,  Poland,  Portugal,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Slovenia,  Sweden, 
Turkey,  the  United  Kingdom  and  the  United  States 
of  America,  submitted  draft  resolution  A/73/L.47, 
“Problem  of  the  militarization  of  the  Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, Ukraine, 
as well as parts of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov”. 
That  group  was  later  joined  by  Belgium,  Greece, 
Hungary, Liechtenstein, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Malta,  New  Zealand,  Slovakia  and 
Spain.  We  are  very  grateful  for  that  strong  solidarity 
and support.
The  main  goal  of  the  draft  resolution  I  am 
introducing  today  is  to  urge  the  Russian  Federation 
to  withdraw  its  military  forces  from  Crimea  and  to 
stop  the  illegal  occupation  of  Ukraine’s  territory.  By 
bringing  before  the  General  Assembly  the  issue  of 
the  militarization  of  Crimea,  Ukraine  and  the  other 
co-sponsors do not seek confrontation or politicization. 
Rather,  we  believe  that  it  is  a  matter  of  the  utmost 
importance for every Member State to fully support the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
I  believe  that  the  draft  resolution  will  enjoy  the 
same  support  and  constructive  attitude  on  the  part  of 
Member States that has been displayed concerning other 
General  Assembly  resolutions  on  Ukraine.  I  urge  all 
Member States to vote in favour of the draft resolution. 
Such a vote will demonstrate their strong commitment 
to the fundamental principles of international law and 
the United Nations Charter.
Ukraine  is  also  convinced  that  the  progressive 
militarization of the temporarily occupied Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol in Ukraine 
by  the  Russian  Federation  and  Russia’s  continued 
aggressive acts, threats and use of force against Ukraine, 
in  violation  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  will  have 
far-reaching consequences for international peace and 
security.  The  issue  therefore  constitutes  an  important 
question, as envisaged in rules 83 and 84 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly. Thus, the decisions 
on the draft resolution and draft amendment A/73/L.68 
shall be made by a two-thirds majority of the members 
present and voting.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to 
introduce draft amendment A/73/L.68.
Mr.  Mamdouhi  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  On 
behalf of the delegations of the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
the  Republic  of  Nicaragua,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic 
and  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  I  have  the 
honour  to  introduce  draft  amendment  A/73/L.68  to 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.47.  The  draft  amendment  was 
submitted on 13 December.
But  before  introducing  the  draft  amendment,  we 
deem it necessary to reiterate our principled position on 
Russian and Ukrainian disputes. We firmly believe that 
debates on multifaceted issues of a highly political and 
controversial  nature  within  the  setting  of  the  General 
Assembly  will  have  little,  if  any,  utility  in  furthering 
efforts  to  achieve  a  workable  solution  to  an  issue  on 
which  agreements  were  decided  in  Minsk  in  2015, 
endorsed  by  Security  Council  resolution  2202  (2015). 
While  there  is  an  agreed  international  mechanism  in 
place,  which  is  supported  by  the  Security  Council, 
referring  the  dispute  to  the  General  Assembly  could 
bring out existing differences and sow division among 
Member  States,  instead  of  achieving  a  resolution. 
Such action could even undermine the internationally 
recognized agreed settlement format on Ukraine.
We  need  to  give  the  already  agreed  mechanism 
more time and refrain from taking hasty decisions. Our 
principled position is to support a peaceful solution to 
the Ukraine and Russia dispute, and we firmly believe 
that the issue must be resolved by the States concerned. 
Any solutions outside of that framework will not work 
unless  endorsed  by  both  Russians  and  Ukrainians.  A 
prestigious representative organ should not prematurely 
engage itself in a debate that has been on the Security 
Council agenda since the occurrence of the events that 
prompted it.
As  for  our  draft  amendment,  I  should  point  out 
that it contains three new operative paragraphs, to be 
incorporated after the current paragraph 5 of the draft 
resolution. Furthermore, it proposes that a new phrase 
be added to the end of the current paragraph 6. After 
the  inclusion  of  the  proposed  new  paragraphs,  the 
paragraphs  of  the  draft  resolution,  from  paragraph  5 
onwards, shall therefore be renumbered accordingly.
Regarding  the  substance  of  the  draft  amendment, 
according to the proposed new paragraphs, both Russia 
and Ukraine are urged to conduct a full, transparent and 
evidence-based investigation of the incident in question, 
with a view to holding accountable those responsible for 
the aggravation of the situation. The draft amendment 
12/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
also stresses that the incident and subsequent measures 
taken  should  not  affect  the  implementation  of  the 
binding  decision  adopted  within  the  United  Nations, 
namely,  Security  Council  resolution  2202  (2015),  of 
17  February,  on  the  issue.  In  addition  to  endorsing 
the  package  of  measures  for  the  implementation  of 
the  Minsk  agreements  and  welcoming  the  declaration 
by  the  Presidents  of  Russia,  Ukraine  and  France  and 
the German Chancellor in support of the package, the 
resolution  calls  on  all  parties  to  fully  implement  the 
measures.
Moreover,  the  draft  amendment  proposes  that 
a  reference  to  the  2003  treaty  between  Russia  and 
Ukraine on cooperation in the use of the Sea of Azov 
and  the  Kerch  Strait  be  added  at  the  end  of  current 
paragraph  6,  as  we  believe  that  the  treaty  should  be 
seen as the relevant legal instrument in force between 
the  parties  concerned  in  the  exercise  of  navigational 
rights and freedoms.
The  proposals  put  forward  are  in  line  with  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  as  they  call  on  the  parties  to 
exercise  restraint,  respect  each  other’s  sovereignty 
and  the  inviolability  of  borders  and  refrain  from 
inflammatory  rhetoric,  which,  in  our  view,  is  key 
to  de-escalating  tension.  The  proposals  intend  to 
contribute to restraining both parties and call on them 
to avoid any further escalation of the situation, which is 
in line with encouraging the parties concerned to find 
a peaceful solution to the dispute, as called for by the 
United Nations Charter.
Furthermore, the proposals in the draft amendment 
have been taken from agreed texts, some of which were 
adopted  by  the  Assembly  in  its  resolution  68/262,  of 
27 March 2014, on the subject. In paragraph 3, it urges 
all parties to immediately pursue the peaceful resolution 
of the situation with respect to Ukraine through direct 
political dialogue and by exercising restraint, refraining 
from  unilateral  actions  and  inflammatory  rhetoric 
that  may  increase  tensions  and  fully  engaging  with 
international mediation efforts.
It was the original intention of our delegations to 
submit those proposals during the informal consultations 
on  the  draft  resolution.  However,  as  no  consultations 
were convened, we have no other option but to present 
the proposals in the form of a draft amendment.
and  Ukraine.  As  a  result,  they  do  not  take  sides  with 
either of the parties concerned. We invite all Member 
States  to  support  the  inclusion  of  the  proposals  in 
the  draft  resolution  and  to  vote  in  favour  of  the 
draft amendment.
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  proceed  to 
consider draft resolution A/73/L.47.
The  representative  of  Ukraine  has  stated  that,  in 
his view, a two-thirds majority of the members present 
and  voting  is  required  for  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution and draft amendment A/73/L.68.
As I see no objection, may I therefore take it that 
a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  members  present  and 
voting is required for the adoption of draft resolution 
A/73/L.47 and draft amendment A/73/L.68?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
delegations  in  explanation  of  vote  before  the  voting, 
may I remind delegations that explanations of vote are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr.  Al  Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My country’s delegation would like to express 
its position on draft resolution A/73/L.47.
We  are  concerned  about  the  practice  of  certain 
delegations  of  using  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda  item  34, 
entitled  “Prevention  of  armed  conflict”,  as  a  tool  to 
put  forward  politicized  and  non-consensual  draft 
resolutions. That practice by the authors of such draft 
resolutions  is  based  on  exclusion,  singularity  and 
overlooking the established working mechanisms of the 
General Assembly, which call for holding consultations, 
taking into account the concerns and positions of States 
and  providing  ample  time  for  arriving  at  consensual 
draft resolutions.
In  principle,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  opposes 
General  Assembly  draft  resolutions  whose  main 
objective  is  to  apply  political  pressure  and  worsen 
disagreements  among  Member  States  uselessly, 
while  even  overburdening  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  depleting  the  energies  and  human  as 
well as financial resources of the United Nations in a 
way  that  undermines  the  fundamental  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter.
Last,  but  not  least,  the  proposals  are  of  a  general 
nature and fully respect the sovereignty of both Russia 
A  draft  resolution  such  as  the  one  contained  in 
document  A/73/L.47  becomes,  regrettably,  a  means 
18-44309
13/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
for  political  politicization,  discord  and  dispute, 
rather  than  bringing  us  together  to  achieve  peace, 
security  and  development  for  all,  without  exception 
or discrimination. The legal interpretation and political 
position  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  regarding  the 
situation  in  the  Republic  of  Crimea  is  based  on  the 
fact that the results of the referendum that took place 
on  16  March  2014  are  reflected  by  the  current  stable 
situation in the region.
We  reaffirm  that  the  draft  resolution  before  us 
now  is  politicized  and  unbalanced,  in  particular  its 
paragraphs 6 and 7, which we consider an unsuccessful 
attempt by the authors to impose biased views that do 
not  serve  the  cause  of  stability  in  the  region.  Those 
paragraphs  allow  certain  Governments  to  exploit  the 
current situation between two historic neighbours, the 
Russian  Federation  and  Ukraine,  in  order  to  impose 
political pressure on Moscow.
However,  despite  our  principled  position 
in 
opposing  such  draft  resolutions,  we,  alongside  the 
delegation  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  have 
submitted 
in  document 
A/73/L.68.  That  is  a  sincere  and  positive  attempt  on 
our part to contribute some form of balance, credibility 
and realism to the draft resolution.
amendments 
contained 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  calls  on  Member 
States  to  vote  in  favour  of  the  amendments  to  which 
I  referred.  If  those  amendments  are  not  adopted, 
then  we  call  on  Member  States  to  vote  against  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.47.  Our  position  today  in  opposing 
the politicization of the work of the General Assembly 
is based on our respect for the Charter and international 
treaties  that  govern  the  situation  in  the  Republic 
of  Crimea.  It  is  also  based  on  our  commitment  to 
the  rules  of  procedure  and  to  avoiding  the  General 
Assembly  from  dealing  with  such  politicized  issues 
and  overburdening  its  agenda  with  non-consensual 
draft resolutions, particularly when they do not lead to 
the settlement of disputes at the international level and 
do not contribute to international peace and security in 
that region or the world at large.
Mr.  Polyanskiy  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We very much appreciate the efforts of some 
of our colleagues from various Member States to bring 
a  little  balance  to  Ukraine’s  hateful  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.47.  We  understand  their  desire  to  introduce 
some  objectivity  into  even  one  element  of  this  draft 
text on the incident in the Kerch Strait on 25 November.
I  believe  that  many  here  today  have  realized  the 
true  goals  of  this  overt  act  of  provocation  by  Kyiv 
aimed  at  achieving  two  main  objectives,  the  first  of 
which  is  arresting  the  free  fall  in  the  ratings  of  the 
current  post-Maidan  authorities,  above  all  President 
Poroshenko, who is running for re-election for a second 
term,  and  the  second,  in  violation  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  established  working  norms,  adopting  an 
openly  politicized  anti-Russian  resolution.  Today  we 
are  seeing  the  apogee  of  those  efforts,  which  were 
given  a  green  light  by  various  Western  countries  in 
the  Security  Council’s  meeting  on  26  November  (see 
S/PV.8410).
I  would  like  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  on  the 
evening  of  25  November,  three  Ukrainian  military 
vessels violated the rules of peaceful passage through 
Russia’s territorial waters in the Black Sea, in an area 
that  was  Russian  before  2014,  and  set  a  course  for 
the  Kerch  Strait.  They  did  not  respond  to  the  border 
guards’ legitimate demands and carried out dangerous 
manoeuvres  that  threatened  normal  navigation.  Just 
for information, there were 166 civilian vessels in the 
adjacent area at the time.
The  Ukrainian  vessels’  violation  of  Russia’s 
sovereignty  left  the  Russian  border  guards  with  no 
choice but to use force. Any country’s border control 
personnel would have done the same in the situation. 
However,  thanks  to  the  high  level  of  professionalism 
shown by our guys, we managed to avoid any casualties. 
Three  of  the  Ukrainian  servicemen  were  slightly 
injured by fragments of ship equipment and were given 
medical assistance, with no threat to their lives. All 24 
members of the crew were arrested and given access to 
Ukrainian  consuls,  while  the  impounded  ships  are  in 
the port of Kerch. Criminal proceedings are under way 
and the investigation is ongoing. We intend to affirm 
the  provocative  nature  of  the  Ukrainian  authorities’ 
actions with documentary proof in court. The actions of 
Ukraine in the Black Sea are in themselves a violation 
of the Charter of the United Nations and the standards 
of international law, including the 1982 United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  whose  articles  19 
and 21 fully define the rules of peaceful passage and 
coastal States’ rights to ensure their security.
If  anyone  is  still  unclear  about  this  after  these 
clarifications,  I  would  like  to  add  the  following.  The 
incident on 25 November was not accidental. Ukrainian 
military vessels intentionally entered the Kerch Strait 
from  Russia’s  territorial  waters.  I  want  to  emphasize 
14/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
once again that those waters were Russian even before 
Crimea’s reunification in March 2014. On board those 
vessels  were  two  Ukrainian  security  officers,  who 
identified  themselves  as  such.  It  seems  that  from  the 
very  beginning  Kyiv  planned  to  sacrifice  the  crews 
of the three ships, tasking them with opening fire on 
the  Russian  border  guards.  However,  common  sense 
fortunately stopped them carrying out that criminal act.
In an attempt to cover its tracks, Ukraine’s Ministry 
of Defence concealed material information on the events 
of 25 November in the Kerch Strait, which Assembly 
members  may  verify  for  themselves.  Kyiv  was  well 
aware of the rules for the passage of ships through the 
Kerch Strait and complied with them from 2014 until 
recently. Indeed, on 23 September two Ukrainian ships 
freely passed under the Crimean bridge with the help of 
Russian pilot vessels.
Incidentally, 
the  Ukrainian  delegation  has 
continued  to  mislead  everyone  regarding  the  United 
Nations assessment of what occurred, including during 
their submission of their draft resolution. I would like 
to  quote  the  words  of  Ms.  DiCarlo,  Under-Secretary-
General  for  Political  Affairs,  in  the  meeting  on 
26 November:
“Regrettably, a serious security incident took place 
yesterday near Crimea, close to the Sea of Azov. I 
wish to underline that the United Nations currently 
cannot  independently  verify  the  circumstances 
surrounding the incident.” (S/PV.8410, p. 2)
There  is  therefore  no  clear  assessment  from  the 
United  Nations  of  the  incident,  and  there  cannot  be 
one.  In  other  words,  we  are  dealing  with  carefully 
planned  and  ongoing  act  of  provocation  that  is  still 
going  on  under  our  noses  in  this  Hall.  It  was  made 
possible thanks to the approval of the United States and 
a number of European Union countries that are playing 
a confrontational game with the Kyiv authorities, and 
we can see that most of those countries have sponsored 
the draft resolution.
I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to 
the  fact  that  rumours  began  to  be  spread  about  the 
situation in the Sea of Azov several months ago. Our 
assurances that we are not planning to create military 
bases  or  military  infrastructure  in  the  area  were 
not  taken  into  account.  The  forces  we  have  there  are 
essential to navigation safety and the protection of the 
Crimean bridge. Our random checks of vessels are also 
carried out in strict legality, and all these measures for 
protecting critical infrastructure are extremely urgent 
given the regular calls from Kyiv and across the ocean 
for blowing up the bridge.
As long as we are talking about militarization, we 
should  be  looking  at  Ukraine,  which  has  declared  its 
intention to establish a military naval base in Berdyansk 
and  has  been  systematically  closing  various  areas  of 
the  Sea  of  Azov  for  firing  artillery,  and  yet  the  draft 
resolution says nothing about that.
I have no desire even to comment on the Ukrainian 
draft  resolution.  It  not  only  has  nothing  to  do  with 
reality, it also contains outright lies and disinformation. 
It is clearly one-sided and provocative. Its purpose, like 
others  that  the  Ukrainian  delegation  has  previously 
submitted and will undoubtedly do again in the future, 
is not to solve problems but to polarize Member States, 
divide  the  General  Assembly  and  give  Kyiv’s  foreign 
masters a further opportunity to count heads and ensure 
that  the  number  of  countries  supporting  Ukraine’s 
destructive policy in the region has not diminished.
This  is  not  the  first  time  that  the  General 
Assembly has allowed itself to be dragged into internal 
political  games  contrived  in  Kyiv,  Washington  and 
Brussels,  and  it  is  extremely  dangerous.  That  is  how 
to undermine the authority of our most representative 
international platform.
Unfortunately, nothing about the attitude or working 
methods  of  the  authors  of  the  draft  resolution  can  be 
said  to  be  constructive.  They  did  not  trouble  to  hold 
even  one  round  of  consultations  to  ascertain  Member 
States’ views of this initiative. If such consultations had 
taken place, many inconvenient questions would have 
been  raised.  For  example,  why  is  there  no  reference 
in  the  document  to  the  2003  bilateral  treaty  between 
Russia and Ukraine on cooperation in the use of the Sea 
of Azov and the Kerch Strait, which the authors of the 
draft  amendments  before  us  have  inserted?  After  all, 
it is what regulates passage through the Kerch Strait. I 
will explain why. It is because that document proves tha 
Russia’s  actions  during  the  incident  on  25  November 
were completely legitimate.
We intend to vote in favour of the aforementioned 
reasonable  amendments  (A/73/L.68)  to  the  Ukrainian 
draft resolution, which call on both parties to exercise 
restraint  and  refrain  from  inflammatory  rhetoric.  It 
would be odd if we did not to support that conciliatory 
message.  Unfortunately,  however,  no  amendments 
can change the provocative essence of Ukraine’s draft 
18-44309
15/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
resolution. My delegation will therefore vote against it, 
and we urge all sensible delegations to do the same.
We urge those who intend to support the Ukraine’s 
provocative  action  despite  everything  to  think  about 
the  message  that  they  are  sending  to  Kyiv.  By  voting 
for  these  kinds  of  draft  resolutions,  in  practice  they 
are enabling Petro Poroshenko to continue destroying 
his own citizens, undermining peace in the region and 
dragging  his  neighbours  into  confrontations.  That  is 
hardly  consistent  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the General Assembly.
Mrs.  Van  Eerten  (Netherlands):  The  Kingdom 
of the Netherlands will vote against draft amendment 
A/73/L.68, which is not in line with the core message 
of draft resolution A/73/L.47 and contradicts the facts 
on the ground.
Let  us  be  clear  that  the  root  cause  of  the  current 
tension in the region was the illegal annexation of the 
Crimean  peninsula  by  the  Russian  Federation.  In  its 
original form, the draft resolution once again calls on 
the  Russian  Federation  to  end  its  illegal  annexation 
of  the  Crimean  peninsula,  to  restore  the  territorial 
integrity  of  Ukraine  within 
internationally 
recognized  borders  and  to  respect  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands 
therefore  asks  the  representatives  in  this  Hall  to  vote 
against the draft amendment.
its 
Ms. Schoulgin Nyoni (Sweden): As one of the many 
co-sponsors of draft resolution A/73/L.47, Sweden has 
closely followed the drafting of the text. We also follow 
the  situation  on  the  ground  in  the  region  with  great 
concern, as it is playing out in our own neighbourhood. 
It is clear that the illegal annexation of Crimea by the 
Russian  Federation  in  2014  was  a  flagrant  breach  of 
international law and that the progressive militarization 
of Crimea and parts of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov 
are of the utmost concern, with dangerous regional and 
global implications.
We  consider 
the  proposed  draft  amendment 
A/73/L.68 as an attempt to distort the core message of 
the  draft  resolution  and  we  believe  that  it  contradicts 
the  facts  on  the  ground.  Sweden  will  therefore  vote 
against the proposed draft amendment and respectfully 
asks the representatives present to do the same.
Mr.  Radomski  (Poland):  Let  me  thank  Minister 
Kyslytsya  for  his  introduction  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.47. We call on all States to reject draft amendment 
A/73/L.68, presented by the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
and  to  support  the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Problem 
of  the  militarization  of  the  Autonomous  Republic  of 
Crimea  and  the  city  of  Sevastopol,  Ukraine,  as  well 
as parts of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov”, which 
reflects  the  serious  situation  on  the  ground  correctly 
and in a balanced manner.
Russia’s  provocative  actions  in  the  Kerch  Strait 
and the Sea of Azov resulted in a dangerous escalation 
of  tension.  The  recent  incidents  are  in  keeping  with 
Russia’s persistent policy towards Ukraine — creating 
aggression to destabilize the country. Poland underlines 
that  the  illegal  use  of  military  force  by  the  Russian 
Federation against Ukraine in the region of the Kerch 
Strait  and  the  Sea  of  Azov  constitutes  a  flagrant 
violation  of  both  international  law  and  the  bilateral 
agreements concluded between Russia and Ukraine.
Through  its  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea  and  by 
directly assisting separatists in eastern Ukraine, Russia 
violated the basic premises of a rules-based international 
order.  Russia’s  recent  actions  against  Ukraine  are 
clearly part of its ongoing breaches of the fundamental 
principles of international law. No country has the legal 
right to benefit from its own illegal actions. We believe 
that the international community must rigorously react 
in the face of Russia’s systematic violations of its own 
obligations  under  international  law.  Our  common 
response must be strong enough to discourage Russia 
from  crossing  other  red  lines.  We  cannot  forget  that, 
under  international  law,  all  States  have  a  duty  not  to 
recognize  as  lawful  serious  breaches  of  obligations 
arising under peremptory norms, such as the prohibition 
of  aggression.  It  is  important  to  emphasize  the  legal 
character  of  that  obligation.  Not  to  recognize  such 
actions  as  lawful  is  not  a  matter  of  taking  a  political 
decision or approach; it is a legal requirement.
Recognition  of  Crimea  as  part  of  the  Russian 
Federation  is  in  itself  a  violation  of  international  law 
because it constitutes a form of support for a State that 
breaches peremptory norms in an attempt to legalize an 
unlawful situation. Poland therefore does not, and will 
never, recognize Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea 
and  reaffirms  its  enduring  support  for  the  territorial 
integrity,  sovereignty  and  independence  of  Ukraine. 
Furthermore, Poland calls for the unconditional release 
of the vessels, crew and equipment without delay, since 
Russia’s attack on and seizure of the Ukrainian vessels, 
as  well  as  its  capture  of  Ukrainian  servicemen,  were 
illegal. Recent developments have clearly demonstrated 
16/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
that the infrastructure that Russia treats as critical, be 
it the Kerch Bridge or the pipeline, serve as a pretext 
for  its  illegal  militarization.  That  is  a  worrying  sign 
for  the  future  and  undermines  regional  stability  and 
international peace and security.
Ms.  Plepytė  (Lithuania):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  Estonia,  Latvia  and  my  own 
country, Lithuania. As co-sponsors of draft resolution 
A/73/L.47, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania strongly reject 
and oppose the amendments to the draft resolution put 
forward by the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Syrian 
Arab Republic, contained in document A/73/L.68.
The  proposed  draft  amendment  contains  hostile 
amendments that have the sole intention of disrupting 
the  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  and  changing  its 
meaning.  The  amendments  distort  the  current  reality 
in the occupied territories of Ukraine, as well as in the 
adjacent  areas  of  the  Black  Sea  and  the  Sea  of  Azov. 
The  amendments  do  not  have  any  legal  or  factual 
background.  The  events  that  took  place  in  the  Black 
Sea  on  25  November  constitute  a  blatant  violation 
of  international  law  and  bilateral  agreements  by  the 
Russian Federation. Russia once again showed complete 
disregard  for  the  norms  of  international  law  and,  for 
the  first  time  since  the  annexation  of  Crimea  and  the 
instigation of conflict in eastern Ukraine, openly and 
directly  attacked  the  Ukrainian  navy  with  military 
force. In that context, we once again express our strong 
support for the draft resolution, as it fully reflects the 
real  situation  on  the  ground  and  calls  for  appropriate 
and realistic action. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will 
vote  against  the  draft  amendment.  Accordingly,  we 
urge  all  Member  States  to  reject  the  blatant  attempt 
to  distort  the  draft  resolution  and  to  vote  against  the 
draft amendment.
Mr.  Allen  (United  Kingdom):  I  am  taking  the 
floor  to  urge  all  Member  States  to  vote  against  draft 
amendment A/73/L.68. The amendments that it contains 
have been proposed by representatives of a tiny group 
of  countries  that  have  supported  Russia’s  actions  in 
the face of resolution 68/262, which was adopted with 
100  votes  in  favour  and  upholds  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of Ukraine.
The  amendments  seek  to  distort  the  facts,  sow 
confusion and frustrate the adoption of draft resolution 
A/73/L.47,  proposed  by  Ukraine,  on  which  we  will 
vote  shortly.  Above  all,  in  paragraph  6  of  the  draft 
amendment, the text creates the misleading impression 
that territorial waters were violated during the incident. 
We must be clear — there was no such violation. The 
Russian  authorities  have  admitted  using  force  to 
seize  the  three  Ukrainian  naval  vessels.  They  have 
also  acknowledged  opening  fire  during  the  incident, 
injuring  three  servicemen.  That  incident  happened  in 
international waters in the Black Sea when Ukrainian 
vessels were moving away from the Crimean coast. It is 
important to note that Crimea and its territorial waters 
are internationally recognized as part of Ukraine.
interest 
to 
I 
listened  with 
the  Russian 
representative’s  comments,  but  no  evidence  has  been 
offered by Russia to back up its claims. In paragraph 
7  of  the  draft  amendment,  the  text,  if  inserted  into 
the  draft  resolution,  would  seek  to  justify  Russia’s 
arrest  and  prosecution  of  the  24  detained  Ukrainian 
servicemen. That language would provide Russia with 
insurance  that  its  actions  are  in  line  with  a  United 
Nations resolution and therefore justifiable. The draft 
amendment risks being misused by Russia.
However reasonable the sponsors may sound, their 
aims are unreasonable. It is for those reasons that the 
United Kingdom will vote against the draft amendment 
and  urges  others  to  do  the  same.  The  essence  of  the 
issue is our common belief that States must not use force 
in  their  international  relations,  including  to  acquire 
territory  or  to  change  borders,  which  is  inconsistent 
with the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr.  Kyslytsya  (Ukraine):  One  of  the  most  toxic 
features  of  this  discussion  is  that  a  small  number 
of  countries  that  cannot  help  lapsing  into  repetitive 
violations  of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations have given us an earful of post-truths, 
manipulative statements, distortions and blatant lies. I 
would  therefore  like  to  bring  our  discussions  back  to 
the legal realm. Draft amendment A/73/L.68, proposed 
by  Iran,  contains  amendments  to  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.47 that are not acceptable to its sponsors, as we 
have just heard, on the following grounds.
The  proposed  amendments  do  not  have  any  legal 
or factual background and do not meet the provisions 
of  current  General  Assembly  resolutions,  notably 
resolution  68/262,  “Territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine”, 
adopted  on  27  March  2014  by  an  overwhelming 
majority under the same agenda item. What happened 
on 25 November in the Black Sea is not an incident, as 
the Russian propaganda machine consistently states. It 
is yet another violation by the Russian Federation of the 
18-44309
17/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
United Nations Charter and a deliberate armed attack 
by Russian military forces against Ukraine within the 
neutral borders of the Black Sea. The Russian Federation 
brutally  violated  Ukraine’s  right  as  a  coastal  State  in 
Ukraine’s territorial waters, intervened in its freedom 
of  navigation  in  an  international  strait  and  violated 
Ukraine’s rights in that exclusive economic zone.
As  a  result,  Ukrainian  sailors  and  vessels  were 
captured by the Russian Federation. In violation of the 
Geneva  Conventions,  Russia  is  treating  the  captured 
crew  members  as  criminals  and  is  conducting  a  so-
called  criminal  investigation,  as  we  have  just  heard. 
How can the General Assembly be expected to support 
a draft amendment that does not meet the requirements 
of international humanitarian law? That is nonsense in 
a civilized world. Ukraine has already initiated arbitral 
proceedings against the Russian Federation with regard 
to violations of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea.  Ukraine  also  informed  the  arbitral 
tribunal of Russia’s recent violations of 25 November, 
which aggravated the dispute.
Ukraine  is  committed  to  solving  all  disputes  by 
peaceful means, in accordance with the United Nations 
Charter.  Having  said  that,  my  delegation  calls  for  a 
recorded  vote  on  draft  amendment  A/73/L.68,  which 
Ukraine  will  vote  against,  and  asks  other  delegations 
to do the same. I also once again call on delegations to 
vote in favour of draft resolution A/73/L.47.
Mr.  Simonoff  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  will  vote  against  draft  amendment 
A/73/L.68 and urges all delegations to do the same. We 
reject the notion of equivalency contained in the draft 
amendment. We do not support the General Assembly 
calling on both States to take action when the Russian 
Federation is the sole Member State to have repeatedly 
and  shamelessly  engaged 
in  aggressive  activities 
directed  against  Ukraine,  including  the  purported 
annexation  of  Crimea  and  the  aggressive  activities  in 
the Kerch Strait.
The  United  States  is  pleased  to  co-sponsor  draft 
resolution A/73/L.47, which highlights serious concerns 
about the militarization of Crimea and Russia’s recent 
unprovoked  attack  on  Ukrainian  naval  vessels  in  the 
Kerch Strait. Russia’s attack is a dangerous escalation 
in  its  ongoing  aggressive  activities  towards  Ukraine. 
The  United  States  reiterates  its  call  on  the  Russian 
Federation  to  immediately  release  the  24  captured 
Ukrainian crew members and the three detained vessels.
In  short,  the  United  States  calls  on  all  Member 
States to vote against the draft amendment and to vote 
in favour of the draft resolution.
Ms. Agladze (Georgia): I would also like to speak 
against  draft  amendment  A/73/L.68,  proposed  by 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran.  The  draft  amendment 
substantially harms the very essence of draft resolution 
A/73/L.47  and  gravely  distorts  the  real  situation  on 
the  ground  in  the  occupied  territories  of  Ukraine,  as 
well as in the adjacent areas of the Black Sea and the 
Sea of Azov. It lacks any legal or factual background 
and contravenes the provisions of current resolutions, 
including resolution 68/262 on the territorial integrity 
of Ukraine.
On  25  November  we  witnessed  a  violation  by 
the  Russian  Federation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  in  a  deliberate  armed  attack  by  the  Russian 
armed  forces  against  Ukraine  in  the  neutral  waters 
of  the  Black  Sea.  The  Russian  Federation  brutally 
violated Ukraine’s right as a coastal State in Ukraine’s 
territorial  waters,  infringed  upon  the  freedom  of 
navigation and violated Ukraine’s right in its exclusive 
economic  zone.  Furthermore,  the  Russian  Federation 
captured Ukrainian sailors and vessels and treated the 
crew members as criminals.
Having  said  all  that  and  in  reaffirmation  of  the 
territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty  of  Ukraine, 
Georgia  will  vote  against  the  draft  amendment  and 
calls on other Member States to also vote against it.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.47,  entitled  “Problem  of  the 
militarization of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea 
and the city of Sevastopol, Ukraine, as well as parts of 
the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that since the submission of the draft resolution and in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  on  the  document, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
A/73/L.47:  Belgium,  Greece,  Hungary,  Liechtenstein, 
Malta,  New  Zealand,  Slovakia,  Spain  and  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
18/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
The Acting President: In connection with the draft 
resolution,  the  General  Assembly  has  before  it  draft 
amendment  A/73/L.68.  In  accordance  with  rule  90  of 
the rules of procedure, the Assembly shall first take a 
decision on the draft amendment. A recorded vote has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burundi, 
Cambodia,  China,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic 
Republic of), Kazakhstan, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic,  Myanmar,  Nauru,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria, 
Russian  Federation,  Serbia,  Singapore,  South 
Sudan,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe
Against:
Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Belize,  Botswana,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Djibouti,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan, 
Kiribati, 
Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Maldives,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway, 
Panama,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea, 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  San  Marino, 
Islands,  Spain, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Sweden,  Switzerland, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Vanuatu
the 
Abstaining:
Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Cameroon,  Chile,  Colombia,  Côte 
d’Ivoire, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El 
Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia, 
Guinea,  India,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Liberia,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Mali, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Rwanda,  Saint  Lucia, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United Arab 
Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Yemen
Draft  amendment  A/73/L.68  was  rejected  by  64 
votes to 25, with 60 abstentions.
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now take action on draft resolution A/73/L.47, entitled 
“Problem  of  the  militarization  of  the  Autonomous 
Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, Ukraine, 
as well as parts of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov”. 
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, 
Austria,  Belgium,  Belize,  Botswana,  Bulgaria, 
Canada,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Estonia,  Finland, 
France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy, 
Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Maldives,  Malta, 
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Panama,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic 
of  Moldova,  Romania,  Samoa,  San  Marino, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Vanuatu
Against:
Armenia, Belarus, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of), 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Myanmar, 
Nicaragua,  Russian  Federation,  Serbia,  South 
Sudan, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Cameroon,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Comoros,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Guinea, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Malawi, 
18-44309
19/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
Malaysia,  Mali,  Mexico,  Mongolia,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Seychelles,  South  Africa, 
Sri  Lanka,  Thailand,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago, 
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Yemen
Draft resolution A/73/L.47 was adopted by 66 votes 
to 19, with 72 abstentions (resolution 73/194).
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
for explanations of vote on the resolution just adopted, 
may I remind delegations that explanations of vote are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr.  Polyanskiy  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  We  regret  the  results  of  the  vote  that  has 
just been held, but we are encouraged by the fact that 
many States abstained and want nothing to do with this 
pernicious Ukrainian enterprise. However, we have to 
conclude  that  today  we  have  seen  the  formation  of  a 
group  of  Member  States,  mainly  members  of  NATO 
and  the  European  Union  (EU),  that  through  both 
their  action  and  lack  of  action  have  encouraged  their 
Ukrainian protégés to commit new crimes and acts of 
provocation in the region on behalf of Western political 
ambitions.  It  is  those  States,  in  most  cases  guided  by 
their infamous bloc discipline, that feature on the list of 
authors and sponsors of Ukraine’s undertaking.
Thanks to this, the Kyiv regime continues to get the 
message that anything is permitted, all will be forgiven 
and  Russia  will  be  blamed  for  all  its  sins  and  crimes 
in  advance  and  without  exception.  Thus  it  is  Russia, 
without any evidence, that is accused of being behind 
the five-year fratricidal war in Donbas, despite the fact 
that  that  the  Kyiv  regime  has  presented  no  evidence 
for  the  alleged  Russian  aggression  behind  which  it  is 
hiding,  unless  we  count  the  fake  stuff  that  Ukraine’s 
President periodically likes to beguile the international 
community with and that any expert can see is false.
On  the  other  hand,  there  is  plenty  of  proof  that 
Ukraine’s armed forces and various volunteer battalions 
are  waging  war  on  their  own  citizens,  shooting  and 
killing  women,  the  elderly  and  children.  That  is  not 
something  the  Assembly  wants  to  see,  because  it  is 
not  convenient.  It  is  members’  successors  who  will 
ultimately make judge the situation fairly, ashamed of 
the  hypocrisy  and  this  unprincipled  position,  just  as 
ordinary  Americans  today  are  ashamed  of  America’s 
dishonourable  campaign  in  Viet  Nam.  Unfortunately, 
there  are  many  current  situations  of  which  future 
United States citizens will be ashamed, with Ukraine 
being one of the most vivid examples.
Instead  of  the  United  States  bringing  the  Maidan 
regime  to  its  senses  and  making  it  listen  to  the  voice 
of  its  people,  it  is  supplying  it  with  weapons  and  all 
kinds  of  support,  including  military  support.  Such 
action suggests that Washington is not just trying to pit 
two brother peoples against each other but to unleash 
a full-scale war between them, while brainwashing its 
NATO  colleagues  about  the  alleged  Russian  threat. 
Incidentally, there is only one worldwide threat today, 
the American threat, and that is becoming clearer and 
clearer to many people.
One of the subjects of resolution 73/194 is Russian 
Crimea.  I  want  to  emphasize  that  Crimea  is  Russian 
because there has been no other Crimea for a long time. 
This annexed, occupied, militarized territory exists only 
in  the  draft  resolutions  of  our  Ukrainian  colleagues, 
who are apparently still experiencing phantom pains. It 
is they themselves who lost Crimea and the Crimeans 
when  they  began  to  threaten  them  in  the  wake  of  the 
anti-constitutional coup. The Crimeans made a choice 
in order to preserve their identity and be able to honour 
the  memory  of  those  who  freed  their  land  from  the 
fascists and refused to collaborate with the occupiers. 
Through  their  choice,  the  Crimeans  saved  themselves 
from  the  war  and  destruction  with  which  citizens  of 
eastern Ukraine just like them are paying a heavy price 
for their attempts to claim those rights.
Many 
today, 
tourists  visit  Crimea 
including 
hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, who can see with 
their own eyes that what the Maidan authorities say is 
not true. No matter how many phoney resolutions they 
and their Western sponsors and those who are afraid to 
oppose them in the spirit of EU and NATO democracy, 
that will change nothing in or around Crimea. The key to 
solving all the regional problems that have arisen since 
2014 lies in Kyiv, and more specifically in Washington, 
from whence Kyiv is governed.
Incidentally, we should point out that the Ukrainian 
delegation  got  entangled  in  lies  even  in  its  statement 
today.  Mr.  Kyslytsya  stated  that  the  recent  incident 
occurred  in  neutral  waters,  if  I  correctly  understood 
20/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
his  English.  However,  on  11  December  right  here  in 
this  Hall,  the  representative  of  Ukraine  stated  that 
the  incident  in  question,  which  in  her  view  involved 
the capture of Ukrainian ships, occurred in Ukraine’s 
exclusive economic zone (see A/73/PV.49). My advice 
to  Ukraine  is  that  if  it  is  going  to  lie,  it  should  make 
sure  that  the  lies  all  match.  That  will  improve  its 
believability.
As far as Russia and the Crimeans are concerned, 
the issue of Crimea’s ownership has been resolved once 
and for all. Crimea was, is and will be Russian. None 
of Ukraine’s pitiful attempts at sanctions, resolutions or 
provocations will change that. It is very disappointing 
that  Kyiv  and  its  Western  sponsors  in  the  General 
Assembly have submitted yet another highly politicized, 
phoney  and  utterly  false  concoction.  Such  behaviour 
clearly tarnishes the reputation of the Organization.
Mr.  Tozik  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  Belarus 
has  carefully  followed  the  events  in  Ukraine  and  the 
developments  in  the  situation  in  the  eastern  region 
of  our  neighbour  to  the  south.  Peace  and  harmony  in 
Ukraine are of vital importance to Belarus. A peaceful 
settlement  of  the  conflict,  an  end  to  the  violence,  the 
prevention  of  armed  clashes  and  the  compliance  of 
the  parties  to  the  Minsk  agreements  remain  the  only 
true  basis  for  effectively  resolving  the  crisis.  Belarus 
intends to continue to provide all assistance necessary 
to restore peace in Ukraine and to ensure the conditions 
necessary  for  holding  negotiations  in  Minsk  in  any 
format,  including  at  the  highest  level,  as  ws  done  in 
February 2015.
Today we supported the submission by a group of 
States of the draft amendments contained in document 
A/73/L.68 to resolution 73/194, which are constructive 
and  balanced  and  could  serve  as  a  comprehensive 
reflection  of  the  situation.  We  did  not  vote  for  the 
resolution as a whole in view of our consistent position 
on that kind of document.
For example, the resolution contains references to 
resolutions 68/262, 71/205 and 72/190 to which Belarus 
objected  It makes no reference to the Minsk agreements, 
which  is  crucial,  it  is  essentially  confrontational 
and  narrows  the  possibilities  for  seeking  a  peaceful 
solution to the situation. It has no provisions regarding 
contributing to the maintenance of international peace 
and  security  or  preventing  armed  conflicts,  and  it 
includes  accusations  against  one  country  alone.  No 
similar requirements are made of other States that are 
building a military presence in the region.
Such  documents  should  call  for  a  preliminary 
study within the framework of existing United Nations 
procedures,  including  at  the  expert  level,  which  was 
not done in this case.
Mr.  Margaryan  (Armenia):  We  are  following 
with  deep  concern  the  increasing  tensions  related  to 
Crimea and the developments in the area of the Black 
Sea. Armenia shares a rich history of friendship with 
the  peoples  of  Russia  and  Ukraine.  We  hope  that  the 
parties concerned will exercise the utmost restraint to 
de-escalate  the  situation  in  order  to  open  the  way  for 
negotiations. We are confident that the solution to the 
crisis can be achieved strictly through peaceful means, 
based on the norms and principles of international law.
On  a  general  note,  Armenia  reiterates  its  long-
standing position that an enduring solution to the conflict 
situation  between  the  parties  can  be  achieved  only 
through negotiations, in the established format and on 
the basis of the implementation of relevant agreements.
the  Russian 
representative  has  problems  understanding  English,  I 
will say a few words in Russian.
(spoke in Russian)
Mr.  Kyslytsya  (Ukraine):  Since 
It  seems  that  everyone  in  this  Hall  —  the  more 
than  40  sponsors  and  almost  70  countries  supporting 
resolution  73/194  —  should  be  ashamed.  Only  the 
Russian  Federation  is  not  ashamed.  Throughout  its 
almost 28 years as a member of the Security Council, 
the  Russian  Federation  has  violated  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  many  times,  including  its  most 
fundamental  provisions.  In  politics,  and  also 
in 
psychology  and  psychiatry,  such  behaviour  is  called 
aggressive  mimicry.  In  this  type  of  behaviour,  the 
aggressor  tries  to  present  itself  as  the  victim  and 
behaves  as  if  it  were  the  victim.  But  in  both  politics 
and psychology there are ways and means to fight that 
aggressive mimicry.
(spoke in English)
It  is  with  great  appreciation  that  we  note  that 
resolution  73/194  on  the  urgent  and  pressing  issue  of 
armed  aggression  by  the  Russian  Federation  against 
Ukraine has been adopted today, with its clear evidence 
of total disregard by Russia of its obligations under the 
Charter of the United Nations, as well as other bilateral 
18-44309
21/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
and multilateral international treaties. It is evident that 
the Russian Federation is certainly not a peace-loving 
State. Today, with the adoption of the resolution on a 
situation that is of genuine concern not only to Ukraine 
but  also  to  the  international  community  as  a  whole, 
we have passed a critical juncture in condemning the 
pattern of destructive activity of the Russian Federation 
in the region and beyond, thus reaffirming the ability of 
the General Assembly to discharge its responsibilities 
in the sphere of the maintenance of international peace 
and security.
In that regard, we would like to express our deepest 
and  sincerest  gratitude  to  all  those  who  participated 
in the negotiation of the draft resolution and all those 
who,  under  unprecedented  pressure  by  Russia,  have 
stayed  courageous  and  remained  committed  to  the 
foundations of the Organization. Ukraine is absolutely 
convinced  that  the  issue  of  international  peace  and 
security  represents  a  core  pillar  of  the  Assembly’s 
work.  Therefore,  my  delegation  will  continue  its 
efforts to bring to the attention of the United Nations 
the  situation  in  the  parts  of  the  sovereign  territory  of 
Ukraine that are occupied by the Russian Federation. I 
take this opportunity to also call on all Member States 
to actively participate in the Assembly’s consideration 
of  its  newly  introduced  agenda  item  67,  “Situation  in 
the  temporarily  occupied  territories  of  Ukraine”,  at  a 
meeting to be held in February 2019.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  I  am  taking  the  floor 
to  explain  my  delegation’s  vote  in  favour  of  both  the 
amendment  contained  in  document  A/73/L.68  and 
resolution  73/194.  As  a  small  country,  Singapore  is 
deeply  committed  to  multilateralism  and  respect  for 
international  law.  Singapore  opposes  the  annexation 
of any country or territory, as it is a clear violation of 
international law. We object to any unprovoked invasion 
of  a  sovereign  country  under  any  pretext.  Singapore 
reaffirms  the  principles  of  respect  for  territorial 
integrity,  non-interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of 
a sovereign State, respect for sovereignty and the rule 
of  law.  Singapore  therefore  opposes  the  annexation 
of Crimea.
In March 2014, Singapore expressed its opposition 
to  the  annexation  of  Crimea  by  voting  in  favour 
of  resolution  68/262,  entitled  “Territorial  integrity 
of  Ukraine”  (see  A/68/PV.80).  In  our  view,  the 
resolution 
just  adopted  (resolution 
73/194)  is  intrinsically  linked  to  resolution  68/262. 
Unlike  resolutions  71/205  and  72/190  on  the  human 
that  we  have 
rights situation in Crimea and Sevastopol, the crux of 
resolution 73/194 is related to the question of Ukraine’s 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  Singapore  also 
reaffirms  its  consistent  view  that  all  countries  must 
adhere to international law and support the right to the 
freedom  of  navigation,  as  provided  for  by  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Singapore 
echoes  the  call  of  the  Secretary-General  to  avoid  any 
risk  of  further  escalation  and  we  urge  all  parties  to 
exercise restraint, take immediate steps to de-escalate 
tension and resolve the crisis peacefully, in accordance 
with international law.
Mr.  Chang  (Republic  of  Korea):  My  delegation 
voted  against  the  amendment  contained  in  document 
A/73/L.68  and  abstained  in  the  voting  on  resolution 
73/194.
While  emphasizing  the  importance  of  peaceful 
resolution  through  dialogue,  my  delegation  would 
like  to  note  that  today’s  vote  does  not  constitute  a 
departure from its position of 27 March 2014, when it 
voted in favour of resolution 68/262 (see A/68/PV.80), 
reaffirming its commitment to the sovereignty, political 
independence, unity and territorial integrity of Ukraine 
within its internationally recognized borders.
Ms.  Krisnamurthi  (Indonesia):  Let  me  start 
by  reaffirming  our  basic  principle  to  respect  and 
support  the  territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine  within 
its  internationally  recognized  borders.  Indonesia’s 
principled  and  consistent  position 
the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  States  and  is 
a  fundamental  principle  of  relations  among  nations. 
Indonesia  is  therefore  opposed  to  any  action  of 
annexation against any sovereign country or territory, 
as that would contravene the aforementioned principles 
as well as international law.
respects 
in  order 
With  regard  to  the  current  situation  in  Crimea, 
Indonesia  stresses  the  importance  of  dialogue  and 
diplomacy  among  concerned  States 
to 
resolve  the  ongoing  problems  in  Crimea  and  the  city 
of  Sevastopol,  as  well  as  parts  of  the  Black  Sea  and 
the Sea of Azov. In so doing, Indonesia encourages the 
States  concerned  to  take  the  measures  necessary  to 
de-escalate tensions. We are of the view that some of 
the elements of resolution 73/194 may further escalate 
tension  among  the  concerned  States  and  further 
alienate them from initiating possible peaceful efforts, 
including through direct political dialogue.
22/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
Based  on  those  considerations,  while  in  favour 
of  the  amendment  contained  in  document  A/73/L.68, 
which was proposed by several delegations, Indonesia 
abstained in the voting on resolution 73/194. Indonesia 
calls  on  all  concerned  parties  to  manage  the  crisis, 
promote  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  situation  and 
consistently uphold and respect international law.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote after the voting.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Mr.  Dabouis  (European  Union):  The  candidate 
countries  Turkey,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Montenegro  and  Albania;  the  European 
Free Trade Association country Liechtenstein, member 
of  the  European  Economic  Area;  as  well  as  Ukraine, 
the Republic of Moldova and Georgia align themselves 
with this statement.
for 
the 
The  European  Union  (EU)  reaffirms  its  full 
support 
independence,  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally 
recognized  borders.  The  EU  recalls  that  the  illegal 
annexation of the Crimean peninsula by Russia in 2014 
remains  a  direct  challenge  to  international  security, 
with grave implications for the international legal order 
that protects the unity and sovereignty of all States. The 
EU  condemns  that  violation  of  international  law  and 
underlines  that  it  does  not  and  will  not  recognize  the 
illegal annexation of the Crimean peninsula by Russia. 
The EU recalls that the construction of the Kerch bridge 
constitutes a further violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty 
and territorial integrity.
to 
We  refer 
the  declaration  made  by  High 
Representative  Federica  Mogherini  on  behalf  of  the 
EU on the escalating tensions in the Azov Sea, issued 
on 28 November, in which the EU expressed its utmost 
concern about the dangerous increase of tensions in the 
Azov  Sea  and  the  Kerch  Strait,  which  had  led  to  the 
seizure of Ukrainian vessels and their crews by Russia, 
with  shots  being  fired  at  them,  wounding  several 
Ukrainian servicemen. We underscore that the EU was 
dismayed at that use of force by Russia, which, against 
the  backdrop  of  increasing  militarization  in  the  area, 
is unacceptable.
The EU strongly calls on Russia to unconditionally 
their  crew  and 
release 
equipment,  without  delay.  The  EU  expects  Russia  to 
the  seized  vessels  and 
ensure unhindered and free passage through the Kerch 
Strait  to  and  from  the  Azov  Sea,  in  accordance  with 
international  law.  We  also  recall  the  EU  call  for  all 
parties  to  exercise  the  utmost  restraint  to  de-escalate 
the tension.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
sub-item (a) of agenda item 34.
Agenda item 116 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(b) Election of members of the United Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law
The  Acting  President:  The  30  outgoing  Member 
States  are  as  follows:  Armenia,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Canada,  China,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Denmark,  Ecuador, 
El  Salvador,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Honduras, 
Hungary, Indonesia, Japan, Kuwait, Liberia, Malaysia, 
Mauritania, Mexico, Namibia, Panama, the Republic of 
Korea, the Russian Federation, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern  Ireland  and  Zambia.  Those  Member  States 
are eligible for immediate re-election.
I should like to inform members that the following 
States will continue to be represented in the Commission 
on  International  Trade  Law:  Argentina,  Australia, 
Austria,  Belarus,  Brazil,  Burundi,  Chile,  Colombia, 
the  Czech  Republic,  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran,  Israel,  Italy,  Kenya,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya, 
Mauritius,  Nigeria,  Pakistan,  the  Philippines,  Poland, 
Romania, Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, 
the  United  States  of  America  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela.  Those  30  States  are  therefore 
not eligible for election.
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the 
election of 30 members to replace those members whose 
term of office will expire on 7 July 2019.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
the election shall be held by secret ballot. I should like 
to recall, however, paragraph 16 of General Assembly 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard 
unless  delegations  specifically  request  a  vote  on  a 
given election.
18-44309
23/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
In  the  absence  of  such  a  request,  may  I  take  it 
that  the  Assembly  decides  to  proceed  to  this  election 
on  the  basis  of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot, 
where applicable?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: With regard to candidatures, 
I should like to inform members of the following.
For the seven seats from among the African States, 
the group has endorsed the following seven candidates: 
Algeria, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Mali, South 
Africa and Zimbabwe.
For  the  seven  seats  from  among  the  Asia-Pacific 
States,  nine  candidates  have  been  communicated: 
Bahrain,  China,  Indonesia,  Iraq,  Japan,  Malaysia,  the 
Republic of Korea, Singapore and Viet Nam.
For the four seats from among the Eastern European 
States,  the  group  has  endorsed  the  following  four 
candidates:  Croatia,  Hungary,  the  Russian  Federation 
and Ukraine.
For the five seats from among the Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States,  five  candidates  have  been 
communicated:  the  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador, 
Honduras, Mexico and Peru.
For  the  seven  seats  from  among  the  Western 
European and other States, eight candidates have been 
communicated:  Belgium,  Canada,  Finland,  France, 
Germany, Greece, Switzerland and the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Since  the  number  of  candidates  from  the  African 
States,  the  Eastern  European  States  and  the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  corresponds  to  the 
number of seats to be filled by each group, may I take 
it  that  the  General  Assembly  wishes  to  declare  those 
candidates  elected  for  a  six-year  term  beginning  on 
8 July 2019?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  With  regard  to  the  Asia-
Pacific  States  and  the  Western  European  and  other 
States,  the  number  of  candidates  exceeds  the  number 
of vacancies allocated to those regions. Therefore, the 
Assembly will now proceed to a vote by secret ballot 
to  elect  seven  members  from  among  the  Asia-Pacific 
States  and  seven  members  from  among  the  Western 
European and other States.
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
number  of  candidates  not  exceeding  the  number  of 
seats  to  be  filled,  receiving  the  greatest  number  of 
votes  and  not  less  than  the  majority  required,  will  be 
declared elected.
In the case of a tie vote for a remaining seat, there 
will  be  a  restricted  ballot  limited  to  those  candidates 
that have obtained an equal number of votes. Consistent 
with the practice of the General Assembly, if more than 
the  required  number  of  Member  States  have  obtained 
the required majority of the same ballot, those Member 
States  that  have  obtained  the  largest  number  of  votes 
above the required majority will be considered elected 
up  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled.  Moreover, 
consistent  with  past  practice,  if,  due  to  a  tie  vote,  it 
becomes  necessary  to  determine  one  candidate  to 
be  elected  or  that  will  proceed  to  the  next  round  of 
restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special  restricted 
ballot limited to those candidates that have obtained an 
equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Before we begin the voting 
process, I should like to remind members that, pursuant 
to  rule  88  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General 
Assembly, no representative shall interrupt the voting 
except  on  a  point  of  order  on  the  actual  conduct  of 
the  voting.  In  addition,  ballot  papers  will  be  given 
only  to  the  representatives  seated  directly  behind  the 
country’s nameplate.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected. I would like to remind members that, at 
this stage, they are voting for seven seats for the Asia-
Pacific States and seven seats for the Western European 
and other States.
Ballot  papers  marked  “A”  and  “B”  will  now  be 
distributed and the voting has thus begun.
In 
accordance  with 
resolution  71/323  of 
8  September  2017,  the  names  of  the  States  that  have 
been communicated to the Secretariat at least 48 hours 
prior  to  the  election  today  have  been  printed  on  the 
ballot  papers  for  the  two  regional  groups.  Moreover, 
additional blank lines corresponding to the number of 
vacant seats to be filled for each of the regional groups 
24/26 
18-44309
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.56
have been provided on the ballot papers for inscribing 
other States as necessary.
I  request  representatives  to  use  only  those  ballot 
papers  that  have  been  distributed.  For  ballot  papers 
marked  “A”  for  Asia-Pacific  States,  members  are 
requested to put an “X” in the boxes next to the States 
that  they  wish  to  vote  for  and/or  write  other  eligible 
names on the blank lines. For ballot papers marked “B” 
for  Western  European  and  other  States,  members  are 
also  requested  to  put  an  “X”  in  the  boxes  next  to  the 
States on the ballot paper or write the name of another 
eligible  State  on  the  blank  line.  The  total  number  of 
checked  boxes  and/or  handwritten  names  should  not 
exceed  the  number  of  vacant  seats  to  be  filled,  as 
indicated on the ballot paper.
A  ballot  will  be  declared  invalid  if  it  contains 
more names of Member States from the relevant region 
than  the  number  of  seats  assigned  to  it.  Accordingly, 
for  ballot  papers  marked  “A”  for  Asia-Pacific  States, 
the total number of checked boxes and/or handwritten 
names  should  not  exceed  seven,  and  for  ballot  papers 
marked  “B”  for  Western  European  and  other  States, 
the total number of checked boxes and/or handwritten 
names should also not exceed seven. If a ballot paper 
for  a  region  contains  the  names  of  States  that  do  not 
belong  to  the  region  concerned,  the  ballot  paper 
remains valid but the vote for those Member States will 
not be counted.
the 
invitation  of 
At 
the  Acting  President, 
Mr.  Stankov  (Bulgaria),  Ms.  Edwards  (Guyana), 
Mr.  El  Jallad  (Lebanon),  Ms.  De  Schot  (New 
Zealand),  Mrs.  Philips-Umezurike  (Nigeria)  and 
Mr. Muhamedjanov (Tajikistan) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  5.45  p.m.  and 
resumed at 6.25 p.m.
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 
as follows:
Group A — Asia-Pacific States (7 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members present and voting:  
Required majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
193
0
193
0
193
97
Singapore  
Japan  
Indonesia  
China  
Viet Nam  
Republic of Korea  
Malaysia  
Bahrain  
Iraq  
Kuwait  
Germany  
Finland  
France  
Belgium  
United Kingdom  
Switzerland  
Canada  
Greece  
180
167
160
159
157
155
149
116
57
1
181
171
171
166
161
160
150
107
Group  B  —  Western  European  and  other  States 
(7 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members present and voting:  
Required majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
193
0
193
2
191
96
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
largest  number  of  votes  of  the  members  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  following  14  States  are 
elected members of the United Nations Commission 
on  International  Trade  Law  for  a  six-year  term 
beginning on 8 July 2019: Belgium, Canada, China, 
Finland,  France,  Germany,  Indonesia,  Japan, 
Malaysia,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Singapore, 
Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President: 
I  congratulate 
the 
following States, which have been elected members of 
the United Nations Commission on International Trade 
Law  for  a  six-year  term  beginning  on  8  July  2019: 
Algeria,  Belgium,  Cameroon,  Canada,  China,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador, 
Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Honduras, Hungary, 
Indonesia,  Japan,  Malaysia,  Mali,  Mexico,  Peru,  the 
Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Singapore, 
South  Africa,  Switzerland,  Ukraine, 
the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Viet 
Nam and Zimbabwe.
18-44309
25/26
A/73/PV.56 
17/12/2018
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 116.
delegation  not  to  use  such  old  tricks,  which  benefit 
no one.
Before giving the floor to speakers in the exercise of 
the right of reply, may I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes for the first intervention and five minutes for 
the  second  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Mr.  Khashaan  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
I  would  like  to  exercise  my  right  of  reply  following 
the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  (see  A/73/PV.55)  about 
my country.
We  strongly  reject  the  mendacious  and  baseless 
allegations  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
the Syrian delegation against my country. We are used to 
his impoliteness, lies and mendacious accusations, and 
are therefore not surprised that his country has violated 
all international laws and norms, including moral and 
humanitarian laws. We would like to remind the Syrian 
representative, who has greatly enjoyed the centuries-
long human rights involvement in his country, as well 
as the General Assembly, of the heinous crimes that his 
country has committed against the Syrian people, who 
are suffering injustice, particularly through the use of 
internationally banned weapons. That tragedy has led 
to the external displacement of nearly 6 million people, 
whereby hundreds of thousands of them are currently 
hosted  by  my  country,  not  to  mention  the  internal 
displacement of approximately 7 million people.
My country’s delegation would like to clarify that 
the  attempts  of  the  Syrian  delegation  are  nothing  but 
a means to cause uncertainty and hide the truth. That 
same approach was used during the adoption of draft 
resolution  73/181  in  the  Third  Committee.  All  those 
attempts  have  failed.  We  therefore  ask  the  Syrian 
Mr.  Al  Khalil  (Syrian  Arabic  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  An  Arab  proverb  says  “He  who  does 
not  possess  something  cannot  give  it  away”.  The 
top  scandal  is  that  a  Government  such  as  that  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  which  is  not  party  to  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights, 
submits  a  draft  resolution  on  human  rights.  Like 
Da’esh, it violates human rights in the country by still 
beheading its people. The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has 
violated  human  rights  in  Yemen  by  killing  thousands 
of Yemeni children, and by supporting terrorist groups 
in  my  country,  Syria.  Everyone  knows  that  the  Saudi 
Arabia  Government  has  for  decades  issued  fatwas 
calling for killing and terrorism throughout the world. 
It  is  responsible  for  religious  and  sectarian  hatred,  in 
contravention  of  religious  and  moral  values  and  the 
principle  of  coexistence  among  peoples  of  different 
economic,  social  and  political  sytems.  Saudi  Arabia 
is  the  country  from  which  takfiri  thought  originated, 
which  destroyed  the  Buddhist  statues  in  Bamiyan, 
Afghanistan, and was responsible for the London and 
Madrid  underground  explosions  and  the  9/11  attacks 
in New York, while also murdering Syrians and Iraqis 
with car bombs and suicide belts.
What we heard from the representative of the Saudi 
regime is affiliated with the Saudi pre-Islamic thought 
that  spread  terrorism  from  Tora  Bora  Mountains 
in  Afghanistan 
to  Iraq,  Lebanon,  Egypt,  Libya, 
Syria,  the  Sahel  region  in  Africa,  Europe  and  the 
American continent.
The Acting President: I would like to express my 
thanks to the interpreters for staying with us so late.
The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.
26/26 
18-44309
