United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
50th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 11 December 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ten-Pow 
(Guyana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 78 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/68 
and A/73/368)
Reports on the work of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group of the Whole on the Regular Process 
for Global Reporting and Assessment of the 
State of the Marine Environment, including 
Socioeconomic Aspects (A/73/74 and А/73/373)
Report on the work of the United Nations Open-
ended Informal Consultative Process on Oceans 
and the Law of the Sеа at its nineteenth meeting 
(A/73/124)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.35)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the 
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the 
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating 
to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory 
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Draft resolution (А/73/L.41)
Ms.  Hamilton  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of Australia.
We  are  pleased  to  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of 
Nauru  on  behalf  of  members  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum (see A/73/PV.49).
We  thank  the  facilitators  from  Singapore  and 
Norway for leading our consultations on this year’s texts 
for the annual omnibus draft resolutions on oceans and 
the law of the sea (A/73/L.35) and sustainable fisheries 
(A/73/L.41). Australia is pleased to sponsor both, noting 
our  particular  interest,  as  a  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
nation and a significant coastal State, in the protection 
and sustainable use of the ocean and its resources.
Australia is clear about its priorities internationally 
and  within  its  own  region,  the  Indo-Pacific.  We 
encourage 
the  protection  and  sustainable  use  of 
natural resources, including fisheries. We place strong 
emphasis on preserving the health of ocean and marine 
ecosystems, given the importance of oceans to regional 
and  economic  security  and  the  livelihoods  of  our 
neighbours. We are committed to promoting freedom of 
trade and safeguarding freedom of navigation. We want 
the  rights  of  all  States  to  be  respected.  We  strongly 
advocate  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  in 
accordance with international law. The United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) sets out 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-43206 (E)
*1843206*

A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
clear  rules  for  all  of  those  objectives.  We  welcome 
the  General  Assembly’s  continued  affirmation  that 
UNCLOS  provides  the  legal  framework  within  which 
all activities in the oceans and seas must be carried out. 
It is of fundamental strategic importance as the basis 
for national, regional and global action and cooperation 
on ocean matters.
Australia  continues  to  strongly  support  efforts  to 
develop  an  implementing  agreement  under  UNCLOS 
on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine 
biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction. 
That  serves  to  strengthen  the  UNCLOS  framework. 
We  welcome  the  progress  achieved  to  date  and  look 
forward to continued constructive sessions in 2019 of 
the  intergovernmental  conference  on  an  international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction.
Australia  is  really  pleased  that  this  year’s  ocean 
omnibus  draft  resolution  highlights  the  first-ever 
conciliation  process  under  UNCLOS.  That  historic 
process has resolved a long-running boundary dispute 
between  Australia  and  Timor-Leste.  It  provides  an 
excellent  example  of  how  UNCLOS  can  reinforce 
stability and enable countries to resolve their differences 
through  the  rule  of  law.  Following  the  conciliation, 
Australia and Timor-Leste signed a treaty on 6 March in 
New York establishing permanent maritime boundaries. 
The treaty delivers certainty for our two countries and 
provides  for  the  joint  development  and  management 
of our shared resources. It is an example of the rules-
based international order in action. We encourage other 
States  to  make  use  of  international  dispute  resolution 
processes when disagreements arise and to respect the 
outcome of such processes.
We  also  commend  the  General  Assembly’s  close 
consideration of issues that are vital to the security and 
future  of  Pacific  island  States,  particularly  sea-level 
rise,  which  poses  significant  development,  economic 
and  environmental  challenges  for  affected  States  and 
regions.  It  also  raises  important  and  urgent  questions 
in international law. We are therefore very pleased that 
this  year’s  ocean  omnibus  draft  resolution  references 
the  decision  by  the  International  Law  Commission 
to  include  the  topic  of  sea-level  rise  in  relation  to 
international law in its programme of work. We, along 
with  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  call  on  the  General 
Assembly to remain focused and to take action on that 
important matter.
Mr.  Dang  Dinh  Quy  (Viet  Nam):  At  the  outset, 
we  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  reports  (A/73/68  and  A/73/368)  under 
this agenda item. We would also like to thank Ms. Natalie 
Morris-Sharma of Singapore and Mr. Andreas Kravik 
of Norway for their tremendous efforts in coordinating 
the  informal  consultations  on  the  draft  resolutions 
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/73/L.35)  and 
sustainable fisheries (A/73/L.41), respectively.
We  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the  General 
Assembly and its subsidiary organs for their efforts in 
the  work  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  this  year. 
We welcome the success of the nineteenth meeting of 
the United Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative 
Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
twenty-eighth  Meeting  of  the  States  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea. 
We  appreciate  the  role  of  the  bodies  established  by 
the  Convention,  including  the  International  Seabed 
Authority  and  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental  Shelf  in  maintaining  and  consolidating 
good  order and  the  rule  of  law  at  sea.  We  attach 
special  significance  to  the  fundamental  role  of  the 
International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea and other 
dispute-settlement  mechanisms  in  the  interpretation 
and  application  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
We  welcome 
the  open  discussion  and 
the 
progress  that  was  made  at  the  first  session  of  the 
intergovernmental  conference  on  an 
international 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Seas on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction. We share the view 
that biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction 
should  be  considered 
the  common  heritage  of 
humankind  and  that  the  benefits  resulting  from  their 
use and exploitation should be equitably shared among 
States. We would like to emphasize the importance of 
capacity-building and the transfer of modern maritime 
technology  for  our  shared  goals  of  conserving  and 
sustainably using maritime resources. Going forward, 
we  support  ensuring  that  the  process  of  preparing 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under 
UNCLOS  on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine  biological  diversity  of  areas  beyond  national 
2/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
jurisdiction  makes  the  transition  towards  text-based 
negotiations as soon as possible.
need  to  protect  the  social  security  and  livelihoods  of 
coastal populations.
Viet  Nam  was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  sign 
and  ratify  UNCLOS  and  has  always  adhered  to 
its  provisions,  respecting  the  legitimate  rights  and 
interests  of  other  nations  and  actively  participating 
in  activities  within  the  framework  of  the  Convention. 
We  emphasize  its  universal  and  unifying  nature, 
which  provides  a  comprehensive  and  sound  legal 
framework for all activities carried out in the seas and 
oceans.  UNCLOS  has  created  a  solid  foundation  for 
the  maintenance  of  peace,  stability  and  security  and 
the  promotion  of  sustainable  economic  development, 
including  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
maritime resources. We are of the view that all States 
should fully comply with UNCLOS in order to promote 
the  peaceful  and  sustainable  use  of  seas  and  oceans, 
including the peaceful settlement of disputes, thereby 
strengthening the rules-based order at sea. We welcome 
the  successful  completion  of  the  first  compulsory 
conciliation  under  annex  V  to  the  Convention,  which 
resulted in a treaty between Australia and Timor-Leste 
establishing  their  maritime  boundaries  in  the  Timor 
Sea, and which encourages States to resort to peaceful 
means, including conciliation, to settle disputes.
As  a  country  that  is  very  vulnerable  to  climate 
change, sea-level rise and extreme weather events, and 
which also suffers from the adverse impact of maritime 
pollution  and  the  depletion  of  marine  resources,  Viet 
Nam  strongly  supports  the  international  community’s 
efforts  to  promote  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  the  oceans,  seas  and  maritime  resources.  Our 
Government strongly supports the full implementation 
of the targets of Sustainable Development Goal 14, on 
the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  oceans,  seas 
and maritime resources, and is fully commitmentitted 
to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated 
(IUU) fishing. Our current efforts to finalize internal 
procedures to become party to the United Nations Fish 
Stocks  Agreement  and  the  Agreement  on  Port  State 
Measures  to  Prevent,  Deter  and  Eliminate  Illegal, 
Unreported  and  Unregulated  Fishing  of  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  are  a 
clear manifestation of that endeavour. At the same time, 
we hold that measures to fight IUU fishing should take 
into  account  the  specific  circumstances  of  countries 
where  fisheries  are  mainly  small-scale,  in  order  to 
ensure a balance between the goal of the conservation 
and  sustainable  development  of  fisheries  and  the 
As a coastal State of the East Sea, also known as 
the South China Sea, Viet Nam hosts critical sea lanes 
for  global  trade  and  transportation  communication. 
Viet Nam is fully aware that the maintenance of peace 
and stability, maritime security and safety and freedom 
of  navigation  in  the  East  Sea  is  a  common  concern 
and interest of the region and the world as a whole. In 
the  context  of  the  complex  developments  in  the  East 
Sea, we call on all the parties concerned to show self-
restraint  and  refrain  from  unilateral  acts  that  could 
further  complicate  or  escalate  the  disputes,  including 
the expansion and militarization of occupied features; 
to settle disputes by peaceful means, in accordance with 
international law, including the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  UNCLOS;  and  fully  respect  diplomatic 
and  legal  processes,  implement  the  Declaration  on 
the  Conduct  of  Parties  in  the  South  China  Sea  in  its 
entirety and expedite the conclusion of an effective and 
substantive code of conduct.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  once 
again  affirm  our  full  support  and  commitment  to  the 
objectives, purposes and universal principles enshrined 
in  UNCLOS.  We  urge  all  countries  to  respect  and 
fulfil  their  obligations  to  ensure  peace,  stability  and 
the sustainable development of oceans and seas for the 
benefit of present and future generations.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Our  country  has  always  welcomed  States’ 
productive  cooperation  on 
the 
world’s oceans, which has been made possible thanks 
to the establishment of a robust legal foundation. Our 
delegation  therefore  supports  the  Assembly’s  draft 
resolutions  on  the  law  of  the  sea  (A/73/L.35)  and 
sustainable fisheries (A/73/L.41). 
issues  relating 
to 
The annual omnibus resolution on oceans and the 
law of the sea stresses the universal and unified nature 
of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea and affirms that the Convention establishes a 
legal framework for all activities in the world’s oceans 
and has strategic significance as the basis for national, 
regional  and  global  action  and  cooperation  in  the 
maritime sector. It is important to protect its integrity. 
We must ensure its inviolability as the foundation for the 
maritime legal regime established by the Convention.
My  delegation 
the  effective 
application of the existing legal instruments that have 
is 
in  favour  of 
18-43206
3/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
been adopted based on the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea, and we support the coordinated 
efforts of global, regional and sectoral bodies. We want 
to  particularly  point  out  the  successful  cooperation 
under  the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of 
the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to  the 
Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks 
and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, and the network of 
regional fisheries management organizations created on 
the basis of that Agreement. The practical application 
of  the  1995  Agreement  has  proved  it  to  be  a  reliable 
instrument  for  regulating  fisheries  issues  in  areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction  that  takes  into  account  a 
balance of the interests of sustainable fisheries and the 
conservation of the marine environment. We urge States 
to  work  together  to  establish  new  regional  fisheries 
management organizations and improve existing ones, 
and invite others to participate in them.
Special attention should be paid to issues relating 
to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine 
biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. The 
outcomes of the first session of the intergovernmental 
conference  on  this  issue  testified  to  the  fact  that 
there continue to be widely differing positions on the 
subject.  We  urge  delegations  to  maintain  a  balanced 
and positive approach that will enable us to arrive at a 
strictly consensus solution.
The  Convention  bodies  — 
the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, the Commission on the 
Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  and  the  International 
Seabed Authority — continue to play a vital role, and 
we  believe  that  it  is  important  to  provide  them  with 
adequate resources. We welcome the decision by States 
to give the members of the Commission the option of 
joining the main United Nations health insurance plan 
used at Headquarters.
I  turn  now  to  the  statement  by  the  delegation 
of  Ukraine  (see  A/73/PV.49),  which  was  once  again 
all  about  propaganda  for  its  position  in  our  bilateral 
arbitrage suit. For our part, we do not plan to comment 
on ongoing legal or arbitrage proceedings in the General 
Assembly,  a  political  body  of  the  United  Nations.  It 
is  clear  that  the  Ukrainian  delegation  has  a  domestic 
agenda and is spreading lies and various sorts of legal, 
political and economic fairy tales in the Assembly. Let 
me explain how things stand in reality.
The  Crimean  bridge  was  designed  so  as  not  to 
prevent  the  passage  of  vessels.  The  maximum  height 
above  sea  level  allowed  for  vessels  passing  under  it 
is  35  metres,  which  ensures  that  the  vast  majority  of 
ships drawing less than eight metres can pass through. 
The two main ports on the Sea of Azov, Berdyansk and 
Mariupol, basically cannot accommodate ships with a 
draught larger than that. As a rule, border inspections 
take place when ships are at anchor while waiting their 
turn for pilotage and in most cases take no longer than 
three hours. They are not discriminatory. From 1 April 
to  31  October,  our  border  control  officers  in  Sea  of 
Azov waters inspected 1,492 vessels, of which 31 sailed 
under the Ukrainian flag, 53 under the Russian flag and
1,408 under flags of third countries. As these numbers 
show, commercial traffic through the Strait is going full 
steam ahead and will continue to do so. Incidentally, the 
Sea of Azov border inspections had to be strengthened 
owing  to  the  necessity  of  ensuring  the  security  of 
citizens and strategic infrastructure in connection with 
constant  threats  from  Ukrainian  radicals,  including 
officials.  Previously  attempted  or  prevented  acts  of 
sabotage or terrorism — including one in which power-
line supports in the Kherson district were undermined 
in 2015 with the aim of cutting off electricity to Crimea, 
and one in which a cutter was detained on its way to 
sabotage  the  Crimean  bridge’s  supports  —  testify  to 
the appropriateness of such inspections.
With regard to the recent incident, on 25 November 
Ukrainian naval vessels were moving towards the Kerch 
Strait  through  Russian  territorial  waters  in  the  Black 
Sea, seriously violating the rules of peaceful passage. 
The  appropriate  notifications  had  not  been  provided, 
and the ships failed to respond to radioed call signs or to 
obey requests from the Russian border guards’ boat. It 
is notable that two Ukrainian naval vessels that passed 
through the Kerch Strait in September observed all of 
these formalities. It is therefore clear that the Ukrainian 
ships’ disregard for those formalities on 25 November 
was  a  deliberate  and  manifest  violation  of  laws  and 
rules that the authorities in Kyiv are perfectly familiar 
with.  Incidentally,  at  the  time  when  the  Ukrainian 
ships  committed  this  provocative  act  there  were  166 
civilian vessels in the area of the Kerch Strait, meaning 
that  their  risky  manoeuvres  created  a  real  threat  to 
civilian safety.
The statistics and facts clearly underline that Russia 
ensures the full security of ships passing through the 
Kerch Strait, thereby enabling the future development 
4/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
of commercial and other links with the ports of the Sea 
of Azov. As far as Crimea is concerned, as a sovereign 
coastal  State  Russia  is  exercising  its  sovereign  rights 
and  asserting  its  jurisdiction  in  the  waters  around 
Crimea, in accordance with international law.
Mr.  Nyanid  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  contribute 
to  the  debate  on  the  issue  of  ocean  management.  As 
we know, the oceans play a key role in regulating the 
world’s  climate.  They  also  play  a  role  in  maintaining 
social and economic balance, are a vital source of animal 
protein,  contain  vast  quantities  of  precious  metals 
and  energy  resources,  provide  direct  employment  for 
millions  of  people  in  fisheries  and  aquaculture  and 
for  even  more  through  indirect  employment  in  sea-
related sectors. They are also of political and military 
strategic significance.
According  to  the  data  we  have,  the  oceans  alone 
represent an added value of $1.5 billion, or 2.5 per cent 
of global added value. All of those benefits and assets 
could be threatened if these spaces continue to be the 
victims of the harmful consequences of human activity. 
We  should  also  point  out  that  overfishing,  illegal 
fishing,  pollution,  greenhouse-gas  emissions  and  the 
development of coastal areas also pose a serious threat 
to the oceans’ existence. It has also been established that 
elevated  underwater  sonar  levels  have  a  whole  range 
of repercussions on marine life of all kinds, including 
mammals, fish and invertebrates, and can do physical 
damage,  disrupt  communication  among  animals  and 
drive them from their preferred feeding grounds, which 
in turn can affect their reproduction and survival rates. 
While  we  generally  know  very  little  about  the  long-
term consequences of anthropogenic underwater noise 
on  marine  flora  and  fauna,  its  long-term  cumulative 
effects  on  biodiversity  and  its  socioeconomic  impact 
are matters of growing concern.
We  were  very  pleased,  however,  to  see  both 
in  resolution  72/73  of  5  December  2017  and  in  the 
conclusions of the nineteenth meeting of the Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea 
an acknowledgement of the importance of our oceans 
and  the  need  to  protect  them  and  their  biodiversity, 
which  must  be  supported  by  effective  measures  to 
protect  them.  Raising  awareness  is  an  important 
element of such measures. In that regard, World Oceans 
Day, established at the 1992 United Nations Conference 
on  Environment  and  Development  and  celebrated 
every  year  on  8  June,  is  an  opportunity  to  create  an 
understanding  of  how  oceans  fit  into  sustainable 
development and are help to balance our ecosystem. It 
is also urgent that we continue to conduct research into 
anthropogenic  underwater  noise  in  order  to  eliminate 
uncertainties  about  its  genesis  and  its  socioeconomic 
effects  on  coastal  States  and 
their  populations, 
including in the area of food security, as well as to take 
its  cumulative  effects  into  account.  And  in  order  to 
ensure that no one is left behind, it is crucial to build 
capacity  and  transfer  knowledge  and  technology  with 
the aim of bridging gaps and lack of understanding in 
this area.
Beyond  its  symbolism,  my  country  welcomes 
the  protection  afforded  by  the  1982  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea and other international 
instruments relevant to this issue, and we reiterate our 
call for strengthening the protection and conservation 
of  the  marine  environment  for  future  generations. 
In  that  regard,  we  welcomed  the  holding  from  5  to 
9 June 2017 of the United Nations Oceans Conference, 
aimed,  among  other  things,  at  reversing  the  steep 
decline  in  ocean  health  and  fostering  progress  in  the 
implementation  of  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14 
by 2030.
Cameroon  also  welcomes  the  holding  of  the  first 
session of the intergovernmental conference to develop 
a legally binding instrument under the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction. For my country, it is 
important to build on the gains of the first session, which 
lay the foundation for a new governance instrument for 
the  high  seas  that  meets  twenty-first  century  threats 
to oceans.
The blue economy is of paramount importance to 
Africa. According to the International Energy Agency, 
by  2020  the  annual  economic  value  of  energy-related 
maritime  activities  will  have  reached  approximately 
$3 billion per year. Oceans can provide up to 400 per 
cent  of  the  global  demand  for  renewable  energy.  Out 
of  54  African  States,  38  are  coastal  and  more  than 
90  per  cent  of  African  imports  and  exports  enter  and 
exit  by  sea.  Territorial  waters  under  the  jurisdiction 
of  coastal  States  cover  13  million  square  kilometres, 
with  a  continental  shelf  of  nearly  6.5  million  square 
kilometres,  including  exclusive  economic  zones.  In 
other words, the marine environment and ocean-related 
activities  could  allow  Africa  to  occupy  a  prominent 
place  in  global  geopolitics.  The  strategic  dimension 
18-43206
5/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
of the blue economy is essential to African States and 
my delegation welcomes its inclusion in Agenda 2063 
of  the  African  Union  and  the  subsequent  drafting 
by  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for 
Africa,  in  March  2016,  of  Africa’s  Blue  Economy:  A 
policy handbook.
For its part, Cameroon has undertaken to develop 
and  supervise  certain  sea-related  activities.  It  has 
established  the  Institute  of  Fisheries  and  Aquatic 
Sciences,  which  is  an  example  of  future  sustainable 
development. With regard to the regulatory framework, 
my country adopted law 96/12 of 5 August 1996, which 
ensures the protection of Cameroon’s waters by banning 
all marine debris or waste, and law 94/01 of 21 January 
1994,  on  the  Forest  Code,  which  regulates  forests, 
fauna and fisheries, to facilitate the implementation of 
policies  under  Agenda  21,  on  the  sustainable  use  and 
conservation of marine living resources under national 
jurisdiction.
As they are essential to life and the survival of our 
planet, it is urgent now more than ever to protect better 
oceans  and  coastal  areas  by  facilitating  international 
cooperation, strengthening their legal protection code 
and supporting research in those areas.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Jin-Hyun  Paik,  President  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.
Mr.  Jin-Hyun  Paik  (International  Tribunal  for 
the Law of the Sea): It is an honour for me to address 
the  General  Assembly  this  year  on  behalf  of  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea during the 
Assembly’s consideration of the agenda item, “Oceans 
and the law of the sea”.
Before  advising  the  Assembly  on  the  work  of  the 
Tribunal,  it  is  with  great  regret  that  I  must  inform 
members of the passing of Judge and former President 
of the Tribunal, P. Chandrasekhara Rao, on 11 October. 
Judge  Chandrasekhara  Rao  was  a  member  of  the 
Tribunal  from  1996  to  2017  and  its  President  from 
1999  to  2002.  Between  2000  and  2009,  he  served  as 
the  President  of  the  Special  Chamber  constituted  to 
deal  with  the  case  concerning  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  exploitation  of  swordfish  stocks  in  the 
South-Eastern Pacific Ocean. On behalf of the Tribunal, 
I wish to pay tribute to Judge Chandrasekhara Rao for 
his  contribution  to  the  work  of  the  Tribunal  and  the 
development of international law of the sea.
Permit me to turn now to the judicial work of the 
Tribunal.  In  September  this  year,  the  Tribunal  held 
hearings  on  the  merits  in  the  M/V  “Norstar”  Case 
(Panama  v.  Italy).  I  wish  to  recall  that,  in  that  case, 
proceedings  were  instituted  on  17  December  2015  by 
an application filed by Panama against Italy in a dispute 
concerning the arrest and detention of the vessel M/V 
“Norstar”,  an  oil  tanker  flying  the  Panamanian  flag. 
Preliminary objections were raised by Italy on 11 March 
2016  and  the  Tribunal  delivered  its  judgment  on  the 
preliminary objections on 4 November 2016.
In  the  period  under  review,  the  parties  submitted 
their  written  pleadings  in  respect  of  the  merits  of 
the  case  and  the  Tribunal  held  hearings  from  10  to 
15  September.  The  Tribunal  is  now  deliberating  the 
case and plans to deliver its judgment in the spring of 
2019. In that regard, allow me to mention that disputes 
arising  from  the  arrest  of  vessels  have  already  been 
brought before the Tribunal in cases on merits, mainly 
in  connection  with  the  claims  for  damages  resulting 
from alleged illegal arrests and detention.
The Tribunal has awarded reparations in two such 
cases,  namely,  the  M/V  “Saiga” Case  (Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines v. Guinea) and the M/V “Virginia 
G” Case  (Panama  v.  Guinea-Bissau).  The  current 
case — M/V “Norstar” — also raises issues related to 
the alleged unlawful arrest and detention of a vessel and 
claims for reparations. The Assembly will understand 
that,  since  it  is  sub  judice,  I  cannot  comment  on  the 
case  at  present.  I  should  mention,  however,  that  two 
other proceedings are available to States parties to the 
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in 
cases where a vessel is arrested and detained. I wish to 
refer  to  prompt  release  proceedings  under  article  292 
of  the  Convention,  whereby  the  flag  State  of  a  vessel 
detained for fisheries offences in an exclusive economic 
zone or for pollution offences may seek the release of 
the vessel and its crew upon the posting of reasonable 
bond. A request for the release of the detained vessel, 
as  a  provisional  measure  under  article  290  of  the 
Convention,  may  also  be  an  option  when  the  urgency 
of  the  situation  so  requires.  I  wish  to  add  that  cases 
submitted to the Tribunal so far involve wide-ranging 
subjects  encompassing,  but  not  limited  to  maritime 
boundary  delimitation  disputes, 
law  of  fisheries, 
the  exploitation  of  the  area  and  the  preservation  and 
protection of the marine environment.
This year’s draft resolution on oceans and the law 
of the sea
6/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
“[e]ncourages States Parties to the Convention 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  making  a 
written  declaration,  choosing  from  the  means 
set  out  in  article  287  of  the  Convention  for  the 
settlement of disputes concerning the interpretation 
or  application  of  the  Convention”  (A/73/L.35, 
para. 59).
In  that  respect,  I  note  that,  so  far,  52  States  have 
made  such  written  declarations  and  40  have  chosen 
the Tribunal as the means or one of the means for the 
settlement of disputes concerning the interpretation or 
application of the Convention. That said, I wish to recall 
that,  even  in  the  absence  of  declarations  made  under 
article 287 of the Convention, the Tribunal is competent 
to  deal  with  any  dispute  submitted  to  it  on  the  basis 
of  an  agreement  between  the  parties  concerned.  The 
Tribunal  is  also  competent  to  deal  with  urgent  cases 
in two instances: first, proceedings for the prescription 
of  provisional  measures  pending  the  constitution  of 
an  arbitral  tribunal  under  article  290,  paragraph  5, 
of  the  Convention;  and  secondly,  application  for  the 
prompt release of vessels and crews under article 292 
of the Convention.
For such urgent proceedings, the Tribunal renders 
its  decision  within  a  period  of  approximately  one 
month. I should add that in the light of the experience 
gained by the Tribunal in handling urgent proceedings, 
there is no reason to doubt that it could deal with a case 
on the merits within a relatively short period of time, 
in  particular  if  the  parties  were  to  indicate  that  they 
expected an expeditious solution to their dispute.
In that context, I may observe that the rules of the 
Tribunal contain provisions that may be used to shorten 
the time spent dealing with a case, if the circumstances 
so require. For example, under article 109 of the rules 
of the Tribunal, in proceedings before special chambers 
of  the  Tribunal  formed  pursuant  to  article  15  of  the 
Statute, parties may, with the Chamber’s consent, agree 
to dispense with oral proceedings. Likewise, pursuant 
to articles 117 to 121 of the rules of the Tribunal, oral 
proceedings are not required in some disputes brought 
before  the  Seabed  Disputes  Chamber.  In  advisory 
proceedings,  if  the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion 
states that the question necessitates an urgent answer, 
the Seabed Disputes Chamber shall take all appropriate 
steps to accelerate the procedure. The Chamber or its 
President,  if  the  Chamber  is  not  sitting,  shall  decide 
whether or not oral proceedings shall be held.
Allow  me  to  say  a  few  words  about  the  current 
negotiations  in  the  intergovernmental  conference  on 
an  international  legally  binding  instrument  under 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  of 
areas beyond national jurisdiction. I wish to draw the 
attention of the States Members of the United Nations 
to  the  importance  of  incorporating  a  robust  dispute 
settlement  mechanism  in  the  future  instrument,  as 
such  a  mechanism  would  ensure  compliance  with 
it.  In  that  regard,  consideration  could  be  given  to  the 
possibility of incorporating Part 15 of the Convention, 
on dispute settlement, in the new instrument, following 
the  example  of  other  agreements  that  have  been 
concluded to implement provisions of the Convention. 
It  might  also  be  useful  to  consider  the  possibility  of 
requesting  an  advisory  opinion  from  the  Tribunal  in 
the new instrument. In that connection, the Assembly 
may recall that the Tribunal’s jurisdiction comprises all 
matters specifically provided for in any agreement that 
confers jurisdiction on the Tribunal.
With  respect  to  organizational  matters,  I  wish  to 
inform  the  General  Assembly  that  during  the  current 
year, the Tribunal has held two administrative sessions: 
the  forty-fifth  session,  from  12  to  23  March,  and  the 
forty-sixth  session,  from  17  to  28  September.  Those 
sessions were devoted to legal and judicial matters, as 
well as organizational and other administrative matters.
On 25 September, the Tribunal adopted a decision 
concerning its own procedure. It decided to amend article 
60, paragraph 2, and article 61, paragraph 3, of its rules, 
relating  to  the  adoption  by  the  Tribunal  of  a  decision 
authorizing a second round of written pleadings. Article 
60,  paragraph  2,  refers  to  the  procedure  when  a  case 
is submitted to the Tribunal by way of an application, 
while  article  61,  paragraph  3,  refers  to  the  procedure 
to  be  followed  when  a  case  is  submitted  by  way  of  a 
special  agreement.  Under  the  amended  provisions, 
the  President  of  the  Tribunal  may  authorize  a  second 
round of written pleadings if the Tribunal is not sitting. 
Prior  to  the  amendment,  articles  60  and  61  stipulated 
that  only  the  Tribunal  should  give  authorization.  The 
amendment was adopted in the interest of the expedient 
and cost-effective administration of justice.
An efficient system for the peaceful settlement of 
disputes  requires  that  comprehensive  information  on 
the  role  of  the  Tribunal  be  provided  to  Government 
officials,  who  in  their  respective  administrations  are 
responsible  for  dealing  with  law  of  the  sea  matters. 
18-43206
7/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
Likewise,  it  is  important  to  transmit  information  and 
knowledge to the younger generation in order to ensure 
that  lawyers  and  officials,  early  in  their  career,  are 
made aware of the tools available to States with a view 
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes. 
In  that  respect,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  capacity-building  programmes  on  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  under  the  Convention 
offered by the Tribunal.
On  2  and  3  May,  the  Tribunal,  in  collaboration 
with  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Cabo  Verde, 
organized  a  regional  workshop  in  Mindelo,  Cabo 
Verde,  on  the  topic  of  the  role  of  the  International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes  related  to  the  law  of  the  sea.  The  workshop 
was the thirteenth in a series held in different regions 
of  the  world  to  provide  experts  from  various  States 
with  practical 
information  on  dispute  settlement 
procedures  before  the  Tribunal.  Representatives  from 
eight Western and Central African States attended the 
workshop,  and  the  subregional  fisheries  commission 
also  sent  a  representative.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
extend  our  sincere  gratitude  to  Government  of  the 
Republic of Cabo Verde, the Korea Maritime Institute 
and the China Institute of International Studies for their 
invaluable support in the organization of that event.
A  further  aspect  of 
the  Tribunal’s  capacity-
building activities is its internship programme, which 
annually gives 20 students from around the world the 
opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of the work 
and functions of the Tribunal. Special trust funds have 
been  established  —  with  assistance  from  the  Korea 
International Cooperation Agency, the Korea Maritime 
Institute  and  the  China  Institute  of  International 
Studies  —  to  provide  financial  support  to  applicants 
from developing countries.
Furthermore,  a  nine-month  capacity-building  and 
training  programme  on  dispute  settlement  under 
the  Convention,  organized  in  cooperation  with  the 
Nippon  Foundation,  has  been  offered  since  2007 
for  the  benefit  of  young  governmental  officials  and 
researchers. Six fellows are participating in the current 
twelfth cycle of the programme. They are nationals of 
the  following  countries:  Argentina,  Benin,  Comoros, 
Papua New Guinea, Singapore and Ukraine. I wish to 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude 
to  the  Nippon  Foundation  for  its  commitment  to 
the programme.
I  would  like  to  add  that  the  twelfth  summer 
academy  on  promoting  ocean  governance  and  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  organized  by  the 
International  Foundation  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  was 
held at the premises of the Tribunal in Hamburg from 
22 July to 17 August. A total of 39 participants from 30 
countries attended lectures and workshops dealing with 
law of the sea and maritime law. I would like to express 
my  deep  gratitude  to  the  aforementioned  institutions 
for their support.
Before  concluding,  let  me  express  my  sincere 
appreciation to the Secretary-General, the Legal Counsel 
and the Director of the Division for Ocean Affairs and 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  the  unfailing  cooperation  and 
support they have always offered the Tribunal.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Michael  Lodge,  Secretary-General  of 
the International Seabed Authority.
Mr.  Lodge  (International  Seabed  Authority):  Let 
me  begin  by  commending  the  General  Assembly  for 
the several references made to the International Seabed 
Authority and the regime for the Area throughout draft 
resolution  A/73/L.35,  which  is  before  us.  Allow  me 
also  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  Legal  Counsel 
of  the  United  Nations  and  colleagues  in  the  Division 
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  their 
support  during  the  past  year.  We  enjoy  a  close  and 
collaborative  working  relationship,  and  I  have  been 
delighted  to  welcome  the  participation  of  colleagues 
from the Division in four of the Authority’s workshops 
this year. I am particularly grateful to the Assembly for 
having reaffirmed the centrality of the role played by 
the Authority, under the framework of the Convention. 
I  wish  to  highlight  four  specific  matters  identified  in 
the draft resolution.
First,  I  commend  the  General  Assembly  for 
welcoming the improvement in the level of attendance 
at  the  twenty-fourth  session  of  the  Assembly  of  the 
Authority  this  year.  It  is  an  encouraging  sign  of 
renewed  commitment  on  the  part  of  the  members  of 
the Authority and also a beneficial consequence of the 
revised schedule of meetings endorsed last year by the 
Assembly. I hope that this momentum can be sustained.
Secondly, linked to the improvement in attendance 
is  the  fact  that  a  voluntary  trust  fund  has  been 
established to facilitate the participation of members of 
the  Council  of  the  Authority  from  developing  States. 
I wish to thank all those who have contributed to that 
8/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
fund and welcome the references in the draft resolution 
to the need for further sustained contributions.
Thirdly,  I  am  pleased  to  see  that  the  General 
Assembly, for the second year in a row, has recognized the 
Authority’s fundamental role in collecting and sharing 
data and information on the deep seabed. I particularly 
welcome  the  references  in  the  draft  resolution  to  the 
value of cooperation between the Authority and other 
relevant organizations under the umbrella of the Seabed 
2030 project. Being a main partner in that Project will 
allow  us  to  make  a  significant  contribution  in  the 
context of the United Nations Decade of Ocean Science 
for Sustainable Development. We are also pleased that 
ocean science and the United Nations Decade of Ocean 
Science will be the theme of the United Nations Open-
ended  Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Oceans  and 
the Law of the Sea in 2019. We look forward to making 
a substantial contribution to that process.
Fourthly, I appreciate the fact that the draft resolution 
expresses serious concerns about the number of States 
parties in arrears of their assessed contributions to the 
Authority. That is indeed a serious problem and I wish 
to  urge  all  those  in  arrears,  in  particular  those  States 
whose exercise of voting rights will be suspended as a 
result, to fulfil their obligations without delay.
Since  my  last  address  to  the  General  Assembly 
(see  A/72/PV.64),  much  has  been  achieved  by  the 
members  of  the  Authority.  The  Council  has  been 
making  important  progress  on  the  elaboration  of  the 
Mining Code, including measures for the protection of 
the marine environment, as well as financial terms of 
contracts for mineral exploitation. Following the latest 
meeting of the Council in July, 42 written submissions 
have been received on the draft exploitation regulations. 
At  its  next  session,  in  February  2019,  the  Council 
will consider the key policy issues arising from those 
submissions,  with  a  view  to  providing  clear  direction 
to the Legal and Technical Commission as it works to 
finalize the draft.
The  next  meeting  of  the  Council  will  also  be 
preceded  by  a  two-day  open-ended  informal  working 
group,  chaired  by  the  President  of  the  Council,  to 
discuss  the  economic  model  for  deep-seabed  mining, 
which  will  form  the  basis  for  the  financial  terms  of 
contracts. In that way, the Council is working hard to 
achieve  the  target  it  had  set  for  itself  to  finalize  the 
draft regulations by 2020 and to set the framework for 
the  sustainable  use  of  deep-seabed  mineral  resources 
for  the  long  term.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that 
all  States  parties  participate  in  that  process,  which 
represents a unique opportunity to get it right.
In  getting  it  right,  a  particular  focus  for  the 
Authority,  which  is  welcomed  in  operative  paragraph 
69  of  the  draft  resolution,  is  the  development  of 
regional  environmental  management  plans  in  areas 
where exploration activities are taking place. I wish to 
express  my  sincere  appreciation  to  the  Governments 
of  China  and  Poland  for  hosting  important  scientific 
workshops during 2018, which significantly advanced 
that  work.  I  look  forward  to  progressing  this  work 
further  during  2019,  including  by  strengthening  the 
capacity of the secretariat in order to better support the 
work programme set by the Council.
role 
in 
The  Authority’s 
the  environmental 
management  of  the  Area  is  of  particular  relevance  to 
the  work  of  the  intergovernmental  conference  on  an 
international legally binding instrument. The Authority 
attaches great importance to the work of the conference 
and  stands  ready  to  support  it  and  its  President  in  its 
tasks. That was illustrated by the fact that the Authority 
made  five  statements  during  the  first  substantive 
session of the conference in September and organized 
three  side  events.  At  the  conference,  we  had  the 
opportunity  to  comment  on  the  relationship  between 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
and the mandate of the intergovernmental conference. 
We pointed out that the Convention requires the marine 
environment  in  its  entirety  to  be  protected,  not  just 
parts  of  it.  We  must  be  careful,  therefore,  that  the 
results of our discussions do not further fragment the 
law of the sea or conflict with the comprehensive and 
holistic approach reflected in the Convention.
In  relation  to  the  Area  and  its  resources,  it  is 
important to fully respect the rights of States that are 
to be exercised only in accordance with Part XI of the 
Convention, the 1994 Agreement relating to Part XI of 
the  Convention  and  the  Authority’s  rules,  regulations 
and  procedures.  Additional  measures  that  duplicate, 
overlap  or  conflict  with  the  measures  taken  pursuant 
to  Part  XI  and  the  1994  Agreement  run  the  risk  of 
undermining  the  careful  balance  of  competencies 
established in the Convention.
Although  not  referred  to  in  the  draft  resolution, 
significant efforts have been invested by the Authority 
in contributing to the delivery of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development,  in  particular  Sustainable 
18-43206
9/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
Development  Goal  14,  and  the  development  of  the 
blue economy. That includes our engagement through 
the community of ocean action on the implementation 
of  international  law,  as  reflected  in  the  Convention, 
which I have the honour to co-facilitate with the Legal 
Counsel of the United Nations. It also includes the many 
different activities being undertaken to implement our 
seven  voluntary  commitments,  in  partnership  with 
member  States,  international  organizations  and  other 
stakeholders.  Here,  I  wish  to  reiterate  my  sincere 
congratulations to the Government of Kenya, as well as 
the Governments of Canada and Japan, on the successful 
organization  of 
the  Sustainable  Blue  Economy 
Conference  in  Nairobi  last  month.  The  Conference 
served  to  underline  that  the  best  way  to  realize  the 
benefits  of  the  blue  economy,  while  conserving  our 
oceans  for  future  generations,  is  through  the  legal 
regime set out in the Convention.
Finally, I wish to take this opportunity to remind 
the  Assembly  that  2019  will  mark  the  twenty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Convention 
and  the  establishment  of  the  Authority.  Throughout 
next  year,  the  Authority  will  organize  a  series  of 
special  commemorative  events,  and  I  look  forward  to 
the full and active participation of all States parties in 
those events, many of which will be held in Kingston, 
Jamaica,  our  seat  and  host  country,  as  well  as  to  the 
presence of our sister organizations.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  78  and  its 
sub-items (a) and (b).
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolutions A/73/L.35 and A/73/L.41. We turn first to 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.35,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the 
law of the sea”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat 
to make an oral statement.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  This  oral  statement 
is  made  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under the terms of paragraphs 54 and 55 of draft 
resolution  A/73/L.35,  the  General  Assembly  would 
note that the twenty-eighth Meeting of States Parties, 
convened  by 
to 
resolution 72/73, is to be resumed on 15 January 2019; 
request the Secretary-General to provide full conference 
the  Secretary-General  pursuant 
services,  including  documentation  as  required;  and 
request  the  Secretary-General  to  convene  the  twenty-
ninth  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to  the  Convention 
from 17 to 19 June 2019, with full conference services, 
including documentation as required.
It  is  anticipated  that  the  request  contained  in 
paragraphs 54 and 55 for documentation related to the 
conference  services  for  the  Meeting  of  States  Parties 
would  constitute  an  addition  to  the  documentation 
workload  of  the  Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management  for  three  pre-session 
documents, totalling 2,200 words and one post-session 
document with 3,500 words, in six languages, in 2019. 
However,  resource  requirements  for  documentation 
services in the amount of $19,500 in 2019 would be met 
from  within  existing  resources.  Accordingly,  should 
the General Assembly adopt draft resolution A/73/L.35, 
no  additional  requirements  would  arise  under  the 
programme budget for the biennium 2018-2019.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Secretariat to announce additional 
sponsors.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  document  A/73/L.35,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania,  the 
Bahamas,  Barbados,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Denmark, 
Greece,  Guinea,  Latvia,  Morocco,  the  Philippines, 
Saint Lucia, Senegal, Sri Lanka, the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, the United States of America 
and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  A  recorded  vote  has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Brazil, 
Azerbaijan, 
Albania,  Algeria,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia, 
Austria, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, 
Brunei  Darussalam, 
Bulgaria,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile, 
China, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iraq,  Ireland, 
10/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
Lebanon, 
Lithuania, 
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia, 
Luxembourg, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of),  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, 
Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Sweden,  Thailand,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tonga, 
Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America, Uruguay, Viet Nam
Against:
Turkey
Abstaining:
Colombia,  El  Salvador,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian 
Republic of)
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.35  was  adopted  by  121 
votes to 1, with 3 abstentions (resolution 73/124).
[Subsequently,  the  delegations  of  Liechtenstein 
and Tunisia informed the Secretariat that they had 
intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: We shall now turn to draft 
resolution  A/73/L.41,  entitled  “Sustainable  fisheries, 
including 
the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks, and related instruments”.
the  1995  Agreement  for 
through 
I give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat 
to make an oral statement.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  This  oral  statement 
is  made  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of  the  rules  of 
procedure of the General Assembly.
Under  the  terms  of  paragraphs  203,  204  and  205 
of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.41,  the  General  Assembly 
would recall the decision to conduct in 2020 a further 
review  of  the  actions  taken  by  States  and  regional 
fisheries management organizations and arrangements 
in  response  to  paragraphs  113,  117  and  119  to  124  of 
resolution 64/72; paragraphs 121, 126, 129, 130 and 132 
to 134 of resolution 66/68; and paragraphs 156, 171, 175, 
177  to  188  and  219  of  resolution  71/123,  with  a  view 
to  ensuring  effective  implementation  of  the  measures 
therein  to  making  further  recommendations  where 
necessary,  and  decide  to  precede  that  review  with  a 
two-day workshop.
The  Assembly  would  request 
the  Secretary-
General  to  convene,  with  full  conference  services, 
without  prejudice  to  future  arrangements  a  two-day 
workshop  in  2020  in  order  to  discuss  implementation 
of  paragraphs  113,  117  and  119  to  124  of  resolution 
64/72; paragraphs 121, 126, 129, 130 and 132 to 134 of 
resolution 66/68; and paragraphs 156, 171, 175, 177 to 
188 and 219 of resolution 71/123, and to invite States, 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations and other relevant specialized agencies, funds 
and  programmes,  subregional  and  regional  fisheries 
management  organizations  and  arrangements,  other 
fisheries  bodies,  other  relevant 
intergovernmental 
bodies  and  relevant  non-governmental  organizations 
and  relevant  stakeholders,  in  accordance  with  United 
Nations practice, to attend the workshop.
The  Assembly  would  also  request  the  Secretary-
General  to  prepare  a  report  similar  in  scope,  length 
and detail to his report to the General Assembly at its 
seventy-fourth  session,  in  cooperation  with  the  Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and 
with the assistance of an expert consultant to be hired 
by the Division to provide information and analysis on 
relevant  technical  and  scientific  issues  to  be  covered 
in  the  report,  for  consideration  by  the  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-fifth  session,  on  the  action  taken  by  State 
and  regional  fisheries  management  organizations  and 
arrangements  in  response  to  paragraphs  113,  117  and 
119 to 124 of resolution 64/72; paragraphs 121, 126, 129, 
130 and 132 to 134 of resolution 66/68; and paragraphs 
156, 171, 175, 177 to 188 and 219 of resolution 71/123, 
and  invite  States  and  regional  fisheries  management 
organizations  and  arrangements  to  consider  making 
such information publicly available.
Turning  to  the  request  contained  in  paragraphs 
203  and  204  of  the  draft  resolution,  it  is  envisaged 
that meeting services would be required for a two-day 
workshop in 2020, consisting of four meetings — one in 
18-43206
11/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
the morning and one in the afternoon each day — with 
interpretation in all six languages, and also requiring a 
webcast of the meetings. The meetings would constitute 
an  addition  to  the  workload  of  the  Department  for 
General Assembly and Conference Management, which 
would  entail  additional  requirements  in  2020  in  the 
amount of $23,800. The Office of Legal Affairs would 
require an additional amount of $900 for the provision 
of webcast services for 2020.
The  request  for  documentation  contained 
in 
paragraph 205 of the draft resolution would constitute 
an  addition  to  the  documentation  workload  of  the 
Department  for  General  Assembly  and  Conference 
Management  of  one  pre-session  document  of  17,000 
words in all six languages in 2020 and one post-session 
document of 4,500 words in all six languages in 2020. 
Those would entail total additional requirements in the 
amount of $65,400 for documentation services in 2020.
in 
paragraph 205 of the draft resolution would also entail 
the  hiring  of  additional  consultancy  services  for  the 
Office  of  Legal  Affairs  in  2020.  That  would  entail 
additional  requirements  in  the  amount  of  $15,000 
for  consultancy  services  in  2020  under  the  Office  of 
legal Affairs.
The  request  for  documentation  contained 
Accordingly,  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.41  would  not  give  rise  to  any  budgetary 
implications  under  the  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium  2018  to  2019.  The  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution  would 
resource 
requirements in the amount of $89,200 under section 2, 
“General Assembly and Economic and Social Council 
Affairs  and  Conference  Management”,  and  $15,900 
under section 6, “Legal Affairs”, to be included in the 
proposed programme budget for 2020.
in  additional 
result 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Secretariat to announce additional 
sponsors.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that since the submission of draft resolution 
A/73/L.41, and in addition to those delegations listed in 
the document, the following countries have also become 
sponsors:  Albania,  the  Bahamas,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Bulgaria,  Croatia,  Denmark,  Fiji,  Finland,  Greece, 
Guinea, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kiribati, Latvia, Maldives, 
Montenegro,  Palau,  Panama,  the  Philippines,  Saint 
(Argentina) 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
Lucia, Samoa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand, the 
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Ukraine.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.41?
Draft resolution A/73/L.41 was adopted (resolution 
73/125).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor for 
explanations of vote after the vote, I remind delegations 
that explanations of vote about are limited to 10 minutes 
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
(spoke 
in 
Spanish): Argentina joined the consensus on resolution 
73/125, on sustainable fisheries. We wish to once again 
stress that no recommendations in the resolution can be 
interpreted as signifying that the provisions contained 
in  the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the 
Provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating  to  the 
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish 
Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, and related 
instruments can be considered to be obligatory by those 
States that have yet to explicitly express their agreement.
just  adopted 
contains  paragraphs  related  to  the  implementation 
of  the  recommendations  of  the  Review  Conference 
on  the  Agreement.  Argentina  reiterates  that  those 
recommendations  cannot  be  considered 
to  be 
enforceable,  even  as  recommendations  for  States 
that  are  not  parties  to  the  Agreement.  Argentina 
also  cautions  that  existing  international  law  does  not 
empower regional fisheries management organizations 
or their member States to adopt measures of any kind 
against  vessels  whose  flag  States  are  not  members  of 
those organizations or party to those arrangements, or 
have  not  explicitly  consented  to  such  measures  being 
applicable to vessels flying their flags. Nothing in the 
General  Assembly’s  resolutions,  including  those  we 
just adopted, can be interpreted as running contrary to 
that conclusion.
that  we  have 
The 
resolution 
Furthermore, I should like to recall once again that 
the implementation of conservation measures, scientific 
research or any other activity recommended in General 
Assembly resolutions — in particular resolution 61/105 
and  its  subsequent  resolutions  —  has  the  current 
international  law  of  the  sea  as  an  unquestionable 
legal  framework,  as  reflected  in  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea, including paragraph 
12/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
in 
3  of  article  77,  which  must  be  strictly  adhered  to. 
Compliance  with  those  resolutions  cannot  used  as  a 
false  justification  for  ignoring  or  denying  the  rights 
established 
is  nothing 
in  the  General  Assembly’s  resolutions  that  would 
allow the sovereign rights of coastal States over their 
continental shelves or the exercise of jurisdiction over 
their  continental  shelves  under  international  law  to 
be abridged.
the  Convention.  There 
Paragraph  189  of  the  resolution  we  have  just 
adopted  contains  a  very  relevant  reminder  of  that 
concept,  which  is  reflected  in  resolution  64/72  and 
its  subsequent  resolutions.  In  that  context,  and  as 
in  previous  sessions,  paragraph  190  recognizes  the 
adoption  by  coastal  States,  including  Argentina,  of 
measures  regarding  the  impacts  of  bottom  fishing  on 
vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  across  the  entirety  of 
their continental shelf, as well as their efforts to ensure 
that they are enforced.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): I thank you, Sir, for allowing me to take the 
floor in explanation of vote following the adoption of 
resolution 73/124, on oceans and the law of the sea, and 
thank Singapore for its work as facilitator.
the  oceans,  particularly  of 
The  Republic  of  El  Salvador  is  aware  of  the 
importance  of 
their 
sustainable  use  within  the  framework  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, which is essential 
to ensuring food security for all in an orderly fashion. 
My  country  also  understands  that  gaps  continue  to 
exist  in  such  areas  as  sustainable  fishing,  transport, 
conservation  and 
the  sustainable  use  of  marine 
biodiversity,  among  other  issues,  in  which  we  have 
seen  great  strides  of  exceptional  importance  for  the 
international  community,  but  in  which  much  remains 
to be done.
As  El  Salvador  is  not  a  State  party  to  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), 
we believe that the relevant provisions, agreements and 
resolutions agreed among States parties or that emanate 
from  the  General  Assembly  should  take  the  norms  of 
general international law into account. In that regard, 
such provisions, agreements or resolutions do not create 
obligations for non-State parties without their consent. 
Over the years, El Salvador has made repeated appeals 
to the General Assembly to make the contents of this 
annual  resolution  comprehensive  and  inclusive  of 
every Member State’s views, and to avoid making it an 
exercise in negotiations that would be more appropriate 
within the framework of the Meetings of States Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea. Such a limited vision of the subject prevented my 
delegation from supporting resolution 73/124.
Nevertheless,  as  El  Salvador  is  aware  of  the 
importance  of  holding  multifaceted  discussions  on 
the  oceans  within  a  variety  of  frameworks,  including 
that  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  and  as 
testament to my country’s resolve to work once again 
towards  fostering  a  universal  vision  to  address  the 
issue,  El  Salvador  decided  to  abstain  in  the  voting. 
Our  abstention  also  reflects  the  recognition  of  the 
inclusion of elements relative to marine ecosystems and 
environmental conservation within the text, as well as 
El Salvador’s advocacy for a legally binding instrument 
on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity 
in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction,  in  accordance 
with the provisions of resolution 72/249, in particular 
paragraphs 8 and 10.
El Salvador calls on all States to pursue their work 
on issues related to the use, conservation and protection 
of  the  oceans  and  seas  with  the  goal  of  ensuring 
the  quality  of  life  for  future  generations,  with  the 
cooperation of all countries, be it in bilateral, regional 
or universal formats. That would allow us to strengthen 
international peace and security and friendly relations 
among all nations, in accordance with the principles of 
justice and equal rights and the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
Mr. Yakut (Turkey): Turkey requested a recorded 
vote  and  voted  against  resolution  73/124,  entitled 
“Oceans and the law of the sea”, under sub-item (a) of 
agenda item 78.
Turkey  agrees  with  the  general  content  of  the 
resolution in principle and believes that it is particularly 
important, as it recognizes the important contribution 
of  sustainable  development  and 
the  management 
of  the  resources  and  uses  of  the  oceans  and  seas  for 
the  achievement  of  the  international  development 
goals  contained  in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. We therefore appreciate the efforts of the 
coordinator, the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law 
of the Sea and Member States to finalize the resolution.
However,  owing  to  the  nature  of  references  made 
to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea (UNCLOS) in the resolution, Turkey felt obliged to 
call for a recorded vote on the resolution. Turkey is not 
18-43206
13/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
party to UNCLOS and is of the opinion that UNCLOS 
is not universal and does not have a unified character. 
We also believe that it is not the only legal framework 
that regulates all activities in the oceans and seas. We 
welcome efforts to reach a consensus on this important 
resolution and expect all parties to be more constructive 
and  flexible  in  order  to  take  all  non-parties  on  board 
in  future  negotiations.  Turkey,  for  its  part,  is  ready 
to  engage  constructively  with  all  parties  to  achieve 
consensus.  Until  then,  the  UNCLOS  language  in  the 
resolution should not set a precedent for other United 
Nations resolutions.
Having said that, we would also like to recall that 
the reasons that have prevented Turkey from becoming 
party  to  UNCLOS  remain  valid.  Turkey  supports 
international  efforts  to  establish  a  regime  of  the  seas 
that is based on the principle of equity and is acceptable 
to all States. However, in our opinion, the Convention 
does  not  provide  sufficient  safeguards  for  particular 
geographical  situations  and,  as  a  consequence,  does 
not  take  into  consideration  conflicting  interests  and 
sensitivities  resulting  from  special  circumstances. 
Furthermore, the Convention does not allow States to 
register reservations to its articles. Therefore, although 
we agree with the Convention in its general intent and 
with  most  of  its  provisions,  we  are  unable  to  become 
party to it owing to those prominent shortcomings.
Turkey joined the consensus on resolution 73/125, 
on sustainable fisheries, as Turkey is fully committed 
to the conservation, management and sustainable use of 
marine living resources and attaches great importance 
to regional cooperation to that end. However, as it is not 
party to UNCLOS, Turkey disassociates itself from the 
references  made  in  that  resolution  to  the  Convention. 
Those  references  should  therefore  not  be  interpreted 
as a change in the legal position of Turkey with regard 
to UNCLOS.
Ms.  Fernándes  Júarez  (Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  express  our 
appreciation  to  Singapore  and  Norway  for  having 
facilitated  the  negotiations  on  the  texts  of  resolutions 
73/124  and  73/125,  respectively.  We  also  thank  the 
Director  of  the  Division  of  Ocean  Affairs  and  the 
Law  of  the  Sea  and  her  team  for  their  support  for 
the delegations.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  is  not  a 
signatory to the 1982 United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) or to the Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory 
Fish  Stocks,  as  their  norms  are  not  applicable  to  my 
country  either  under  customary  law  or  international 
custom, except for those that the Venezuelan State has 
expressly recognized or will recognize in the future by 
incorporating  them  into  its  domestic  legislation.  The 
reasons that have prevented the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela  from  becoming  party  to  those  instruments 
remain unchanged.
The Venezuelan State believes that UNCLOS does 
not  enjoy  universal  participation,  unlike  many  other 
multilateral instruments. Similarly, we have reiterated 
our  position  within  various  international  forums  that 
the Convention must not be considered the only legal 
framework  governing  all  activities  carried  out  in  the 
oceans  and  seas,  given  the  fact  that  there  are  other 
international  instruments  in  this  sphere  that,  together 
with the Convention, make up the body of law known 
as the law of the sea. Those include the 1958 Geneva 
Convention on the Territorial Sea and Contiguous Zone, 
the Convention on the High Seas, the Convention on the 
Continental  Shelf  and  the  Convention  on  Fishing  and 
Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas, all 
of which have been ratified by Venezuela.
UNCLOS  codifies  certain  norms  of  customary 
international  law  that  have  been  incorporated  into 
the  Venezuelan  domestic  legal  system  either  through 
the ratification of the Geneva Conventions of 1958 or 
through domestic legislation. The agenda item “Oceans 
and the law of the sea” is a priority in the policies of 
Venezuela,  which  has  complied  with  its  international 
obligations under the law of the sea, while advocating 
for its integral development from a standpoint of equity 
and  stressing  the  fact  that  all  negotiations  related  to 
that  right  must  reflect  criteria  and  principles  linked 
to  the  right  to  sustainable  development  of  the  marine 
environment  and  its  resources  for  future  generations. 
Our country has also cooperated with efforts aimed at 
promoting coordination on issues related to the oceans 
and the law of the sea, in accordance with international 
law, and has participated constructively in all relevant 
consultations on the subject.
With regard to resolution 73/124, entitled “Oceans 
and the law of the sea”, we believe that it has positive 
aspects.  We  would  caution,  however,  that  it  contains 
elements  that  led  Venezuela  to  express  reservations 
14/16 
18-43206
11/12/2018 
A/73/PV.50
about  the  outcome  document  of  the  2012  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution 66/288, annex) and about target 14.c under 
Sustainable Development Goal 14 of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  We  believe  that  future 
updates  of  the  terms  of  the  Convention  should  be 
considered, given the fact that there are new situations 
for  which  the  current  approach  is  inadequate  and 
which  has  affected  the  development  of  a  regime  that 
should address the most important contemporary issues 
related to the oceans and seas in a balanced, equitable 
and inclusive manner.
is  a  priority 
Although  our  country  is  not  party  to  the  1995 
sustainable  fisheries  agreement,  the  fisheries  and 
aquaculture  sector 
in  our  national 
development plans, which include the goals of promoting 
fisheries development through the modernization of our 
fleets and maritime and river fisheries infrastructure. 
Venezuela  reiterates  its  commitment  to  sustainable 
fisheries  through  the  application  of  the  principles 
of  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  Responsible  Fisheries  of 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations  and  Chapter  17  of  Agenda  21,  approved  by 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Environment 
and Development of 1992. Accordingly, our country is 
party to a number of various international instruments 
that  advocate  for  the  preservation  and  organization 
of fisheries.
Similarly,  our  national  development  plan 
is 
complemented  by  a  broad  set  of  regulations  allowing 
us  to  rely  on  programmes  aimed  at  achieving  the 
conservation,  protection  and  management  of  marine 
biological resources, while promoting their responsible 
and sustainable use, including, inter alia, the relevant 
biological,  economic,  food  security,  social,  cultural, 
environmental and commercial aspects. Venezuelan law 
on fisheries prohibits bottom trawling and establishes a 
sanctions regime for the failure to respect conservation 
and management measures.
For the sake of consensus, our delegation joined in 
the adoption of resolution 73/125. However, Venezuela 
expresses reservations with regard to its content, as it 
is not a State party to the United Nations Convention 
on the Law of the Sea or to the 1995 Agreement for the 
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and  Management 
of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish 
Stocks. For the same reasons, the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela abstained in the voting on resolution 73/124, 
concerning which it also expresses its reservations.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote.
Two delegations have asked to speak in exercise of 
the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  Member  States  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Yaremenko (Ukraine): I would like to exercise 
my  right  of  reply  in  connection  with  the  statement 
delivered  earlier  by  the  delegation  of  the  Russian 
Federation.  I  thought  that,  at  the  very  beginning,  I 
would proceed bullet point by bullet point in explaining 
the untruth that was shared by that delegation here in 
this Hall. But I think that I will try to save our time and 
recall that, unfortunately, we have to acknowledge that 
the delegation of the Russian Federation has chosen the 
path  of  spreading  falsehoods  and  untruths  within  the 
United Nations.
We have seen many times how the Russian Federation 
manipulates facts and attacks through the use of social 
networks and, in some cases, cyberattacks. We remind 
the Assembly of the case of Malaysian Airlines flight 
MH-17,  which  was  downed  by  a  Russian  anti-aircraft 
missile  in  Ukraine  in  2014,  For  many  years,  we  have 
seen  the  Russian  position  evolve  vis-à-vis  that  issue. 
We have also recently seen the situation that developed 
in the Skripal case. All those cases are very telling.
It would be perfectly reasonable to ask me why I am 
recalling all of this right now, because it is not really 
connected to the issue of maritime law, which we have 
been  discussing  today.  Unfortunately,  I  am  doing  so 
because as a result of all the actions I have mentioned, 
the words and the statement of the Russian delegation 
are  worthless  and  mean  nothing.  That  undermines 
international law, and I want to emphasize that that is 
why  any  agreement  signed  by  the  Russian  delegation 
is  worthless.  Needless  to  say,  I  urge  all  delegations 
to  consider  that  fact,  because  right  now  Ukraine  is 
under attack by the Russian Federation. But while we 
are suffering at that country’s hands today, none of us 
knows who might be suffering at its hands tomorrow. 
So  I  would  once  again  like  to  state  that  Ukraine  is 
acting in full respect for international law, using only 
peaceful means. Our case in the International Tribunal 
18-43206
15/16
A/73/PV.50 
11/12/2018
for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  is  an  example  of  how  we  use 
international law to resolve bilateral issues.
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): To be honest, we were startled by the statement 
made by the representative of Ukraine. He said almost 
nothing about the agenda item we discussed today and 
clearly simply had nothing to say. I will therefore outline 
and sum up what the Russian representative said, and 
I hope the Ukrainian representative will understand it.
In  international  and  domestic  bodies  of  water 
regulated  under  international  maritime  law,  and  in 
bodies of water regulated through bilateral agreements, 
specific legal rules exist for passage through straits, and 
the Kerch Strait is no exception. If Ukraine abides by 
those laws and rules on the safe passage of vessels and 
by the regulations on maritime traffic, its naval ships 
and other commercial vessels can pass through freely. 
If  it  does  not  abide  by  the  laws  and  rules  regarding 
vessels’ safe passage and by the regulations on maritime 
traffic, its ships will be detained and those responsible 
brought  to  justice.  That  is  their  choice.  There  are  no 
other options. That is basically what we wanted to say.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 78?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 78 and its sub-items (a) and (b).
Programme of work
The Acting President: Before concluding, I would 
like to make the following announcements concerning 
the  work  of  the  plenary.  The  consideration  of  agenda 
item  41,  “The  situation  in  the  occupied  territories  of 
Azerbaijan”,  originally  scheduled  to  be  taken  up  on 
17 December, will be postponed until further notice.
Also, the draft resolution entitled “Effects of atomic 
radiation”,  recommended  by  the  Special  Political  and 
Decolonization  Committee,  the  Fourth  Committee,  in 
its report contained in document A/73/521, and adopted 
at  the  forty-eighth  plenary  meeting  on  7  December 
2018, had programme budget implications, contained in 
document A/C.4/73/L.13, as mentioned in paragraph six 
of that report. Pursuant to rule 153 of the Assembly’s rules 
of procedure, no draft resolution for which expenditures 
are anticipated by the Secretary-General shall be voted 
on  by  the  General  Assembly  until  the  administrative 
and budgetary committee, the Fifth Committee, has had 
an opportunity to state the effect of the proposal on the 
budget estimates of the United Nations. The President 
of  the  General  Assembly  therefore  intends  to  reopen 
agenda item 52, “Effects of atomic radiation”, in order 
to  again  put  the  draft  resolution  to  the  consideration 
of the Assembly, including through a recorded vote on 
its  operative  paragraph  21  (e),  when  the  report  of  the 
Fifth  Committee  is  available.  No  resolution  number 
will be assigned to the draft resolution until then. For 
that  reason,  the  summary  of  the  forty-eighth  plenary 
meeting in the Journal of the United Nations does not 
include a reference to agenda item 52 or the report of 
the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
issued as A/73/521.
The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.
16/16 
18-43206
