United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
39th plenary meeting
Monday, 26 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Economic Cooperation Organization
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 128
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/328)
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
African Union
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation
(c) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
League of Arab States
Draft resolution (A/73/L.23)
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Latin American Caribbean Economic System
(f) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Organization of American States
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in Europe
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Caribbean Community
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
International Organization of la Francophonie
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/111)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.22)
(l) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Council of Europe
Draft resolution (A/73/L.27)
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Economic Community of Central African States
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations 
and the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical Weapons
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/97)
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization
Draft resolution (A/73/L.25)
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Pacific Islands Forum
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(r) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-39775 (E)
*1839775*

A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries
(s) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization
(t) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Collective Security Treaty Organization
Draft resolution (A/73/L.24)
(u) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Central European Initiative
Draft resolution (A/73/L.17)
(v) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Organization for Democracy and Economic 
Development — GUAM
Draft resolution (A/73/L.26/Rev.1)
(w) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
Commonwealth of Independent States
Draft resolution (A/73/L.28)
(x) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
International Organization for Migration
(y) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the International Criminal Police Organization 
(INTERPOL)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.21)
(z) Cooperation between the United Nations and the 
International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea
The  Acting  President:  Under  sub-item  (t),  I 
should  like  to  inform  members  that  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.24,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the Collective Security Treaty 
Organization”, has been postponed to a later date.
I now give the floor to Mr. Lassina Zerbo, Executive 
Secretary  of  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban Treaty Organization, 
to  introduce  his  reports  covering  the  years  2016 
and 2017.
Mr.  Zerbo 
(Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  Organization):  I  am  honoured  to  address  the 
General Assembly under the agenda sub-item entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”.
for 
I  addressed  the  General  Assembly  in  September 
the 
commemoration  of 
its  high-level 
during 
International  Day  against  Nuclear  Tests  (see  A/72/
PV.112). In my statement, I spoke of the consequences 
of  nuclear  testing  for  humans  and  the  environment, 
as  well  as  for  international  peace  and  security.  The 
devastating  impact  of  nuclear  testing  underpins  our 
moral conviction and provides us with the strength and 
resolve needed to finally put an end to that chapter of 
human endeavour once and for all. The entry into force 
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) 
is the only viable path to achieving that end. Enhancing 
cooperation towards that objective should therefore be 
a priority for us all. With that aim in mind, I am pleased 
to report to the Assembly today on the following issues: 
the current status of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty,  developments  related  to  the  verification 
regime,  and  enhanced  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  and  other  measures  to  strengthen  the  Treaty 
and its verification regime.
On the current status of the CTBT, the objective of 
the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty is to put a 
verifiable  end  to  nuclear-test  explosions  by  everyone, 
everywhere and for all time. A comprehensive nuclear-
test ban is one of the oldest items on the international 
nuclear disarmament agenda, first proposed more than 
six decades ago. Thanks to the support of the General 
Assembly and the tireless efforts of the dedicated staff 
of the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, we continue to 
make strides towards a world free from the dangers of 
nuclear testing.
Although the CTBT has yet to enter into force, the 
Treaty enjoys near-universal support and has solidified 
the  de  facto 
international  norm  against  nuclear 
testing.  In  stark  contrast  with  the  darkest  days  of  the 
Cold  War,  when  nuclear  testing  was  commonplace, 
the  international  community  is  unanimous  in  its 
condemnation  of  any  violation  of  that  norm  today. 
That  has  been  true  since  the  Treaty’s  opening  for 
signature  in  1996  and  has  been  the  case  with  each  of 
the nuclear tests by the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea —  the  only  State  to  carry  out  a  nuclear-test 
explosion this century.
We recently welcomed the ratification by Thailand 
and the signature by Tuvalu earlier this year. There are 
now  184  States  that  have  signed  the  CTBT,  of  which 
167 have ratified it. I wish to thank the Governments 
of Thailand and Tuvalu once more for their support and 
resolve, which has bolstered global efforts to achieve a 
nuclear-test-free world.
2/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
The  CTBT  is  one  of  the  most  adhered-to  arms 
control  and  international  security-related  instruments 
and  receives  overwhelming  support  from  United 
Nations  States  Members.  Nonetheless,  the  CTBT 
has  not  yet  become  legally  binding  international  law, 
as  eight  annex  2  States  must  still  ratify  the  Treaty  to 
achieve its entry into force. Those States are China, the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Egypt, India, 
Iran, Israel, Pakistan and the United States of America.
The  de  facto  norm  against  nuclear  testing  grows 
in strength with every signature and ratification of the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  But  history 
teaches us that norms and voluntary moratoriums can 
never  substitute  for  a  legally  binding  and  credibly 
enforceable nuclear-test ban. There were moratoriums 
on  nuclear  testing  by  the  United  States,  the  Soviet 
Union and the United Kingdom from 1958 to 1961 as 
negotiations were taking place on a nuclear-test ban in 
Geneva.  However,  changing  political  circumstances 
and a rise in tension between the United States and the 
Soviet  Union  led  to  a  collapse  of  those  negotiations. 
Soon  afterward,  the  two  super-Powers  resumed  their 
nuclear-test programmes and carried out more nuclear 
tests between 1961 and 1962 than in the whole of the 
previous decade. That is not to be forgotten.
Legal  instruments  such  as  nuclear-weapon-free 
zones, and most recently the Treaty on the Prohibition 
of  Nuclear  Weapons,  can  ultimately  complement  the 
CTBT.  But  an  in-force  treaty  with  a  fully  completed 
verification  regime  is  the  path  to  an  effectively 
verifiable  and  credibly  enforceable  prohibition  on 
nuclear testing. That is the only way that Member States 
will have trust and confidence that the Treaty is being 
complied with. That is why we are continuing our work 
on  confidence-building  and  education  and  outreach 
with  the  annex  2  States,  with  the  aim  of  creating  the 
right conditions globally and regionally that would be 
conducive for positive consideration of their signature 
and/or ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty.
With that in mind, the Conference on Facilitating 
the  Entry  into  Force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty,  also  known  as  the  Article  XIV 
Conference, has been held every other year to promote 
the  Treaty’s  entry  into  force.  When  the  tenth  Article 
XIV  Conference  was  held  last  year  in  New  York,  the 
Conference offered an opportunity for States to renew 
their  commitment  to  the  CTBT  as  a  core  element  of 
the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime. 
A  high  number  of  Foreign  Ministers  participated  in 
the  conference.  Secretary-General  António  Guterres 
and  the  then-President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, addressed the opening meeting.
representatives 
from  States  signatories 
In  addition,  the  ninth  Ministerial  Meeting  of  the 
Friends of the CTBT, held this year, brought together 
a  large  number  of  Foreign  Ministers  and  other  high-
level 
to 
review  the  progress  that  has  been  made  and  issue 
a  joint  call  for  the  prompt  entry  into  force  of  the 
CTBT.  The  meeting  was  organized  by  the  Friends  of 
the  CTBT  —  Australia,  Canada,  Finland,  Germany, 
Japan and the Netherlands — in cooperation with the 
co-coordinators of article XIV, Iraq and Belgium. The 
ministers  were  unanimous  in  their  commitment  to 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  CTBT,  while  highlighting 
the  verification  regime  as  an  essential 
tool  for 
ensuring compliance.
together  more 
From  21  May  to  1  June,  we  convened  the  second 
CTBT  Science  and  Diplomacy  Symposium,  which 
brought 
than  120  policymakers, 
diplomats  and  practitioners,  as  well  as  academics, 
students  and  young  professionals  from  around  the 
globe. Hundreds more participated in the Symposium 
virtually through the CTBTO Knowledge and Training 
Portal. The Symposium served to raise public awareness 
of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty and its 
contribution  to  international  peace  and  security,  and 
to  deepen  the  understanding  of  the  participants,  in 
particular those from the non-ratifying annex 2 States, 
about the Treaty and its Organization. Attendees took 
part  in  in-depth  and  dynamic  discussions  on  various 
legal,  political  and  technical  aspects  of  the  Treaty, 
and  participated  in  creative  thinking  and  collective 
solution finding.
The  CTBTO’s  efforts  to  raise  awareness  about 
the Treaty have continued in New York as well. Since 
its  establishment  last  year,  the  CTBTO  New  York 
Liaison  Office  is  continuing  to  cultivate  and  enhance 
relationships with the 193 States Members of the United 
Nations and various entities represented in New York. 
Capacity-building  exercises  and  visual  presentations 
organized through the Liaison Office mechanism have 
helped  to  generate  attention  and  further  knowledge 
about the Treaty and the CTBTO, not only among the 
Permanent Missions but also among the general public.
Turning to developments related to the verification 
regime, I am pleased to report that the system is nearing 
18-39775
3/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
completion. The progressive build-up of the system has 
resulted in a level of maturity, readiness and relevance 
that has been demonstrated on numerous occasions and 
in a variety of circumstances. By virtue of the consistent 
efforts and hard work by CTBTO staff in Vienna, the 
full establishment of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty verification regime is well within reach.
I  just  returned  from  a  mission  to  Australia  to 
celebrate  the  completion  of  the  Australian  segment 
of  the  International  Monitoring  System  stations,  the 
third-largest of any State. With the certification of the 
infrasound  station  at  Davis  base  in  Antarctica,  all  21 
monitoring  facilities  located  on  Australian  territory 
are  now  complete.  Those  strategically  positioned 
stations  are  sending  reliable,  high-quality  data  to  our 
International Data Centre in Vienna for analysis.
We  have  installed  or  certified  several  important 
new  International  Monitoring  System  stations 
in 
the  past  several  years.  Of  particular  note,  the  last 
remaining hydroacoustic station in the Crozet Islands, 
in  the  southern  Indian  Ocean,  was  certified,  which 
marked  a  major  milestone  on  the  way  to  completion 
of  the  verification  system.  Five  stations  were  also 
certified in China — two primary seismic stations and 
three  radionuclide  stations.  Additional  achievements 
include  the  certification  of  an  infrasound  station 
and  a  radionuclide  station  in  the  Galápagos  Islands, 
Ecuador,  as  well  as  the  certifications  of  stations  and 
radionuclide  laboratories  in  the  Russian  Federation, 
Ethiopia, the United Kingdom, Italy and France. As of 
November  2018,  there  are  296  certified  International 
Monitoring System facilities, and another 16 installed 
or under construction, bringing the verification system 
to slightly over 92 per cent completion.
The International Data Centre continues to process 
and analyse data registered at monitoring stations, which 
are shared with 1,300 institutions in 130 countries. The 
International Data Centre is progressively carrying out 
its  work  through  experiments  and  full-scale  testing. 
In addition to the steady advancement in the Treaty’s 
International  Monitoring  System,  the  capabilities  of 
the  International  Data  Centre  are  also  continuing  to 
develop. In fact, they have achieved a far better detection 
threshold than many thought would be possible when the 
Treaty was negotiated and the International Monitoring 
System was conceived.
The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
Organization is also continuing to prepare for the entry 
into  force  of  the  Treaty  by  strengthening  its  on-site 
inspection  capabilities.  That 
includes  developing 
on-site  inspection  elements,  conducting  integrated 
field  exercises  and  evaluating 
the  organization’s 
on-site  inspection  activities.  After  having  concluded 
and evaluated the on-site inspection field exercises of 
2008  and  2014,  we  are  now  in  a  new  cycle  of  on-site 
inspection  development  and  have  a  new  action  plan 
for on-site inspection activities that began in 2016 and 
will continue until 2019. With regard to our project to 
build a permanent equipment storage and maintenance 
facility,  its  construction  is  well  under  way  at  the  site 
in  Seibersdorf,  Austria.  That  permanent  facility  will 
be  in  charge  of  on-site  inspection  and  have  other 
organization-wide  operational  functions, 
including 
storage,  maintenance,  testing  and  training.  Those 
achievements  prove  that  the  Treaty’s  verification 
regime has reached an advanced state of readiness. Our 
strategic goal of moving towards the acceptance of the 
verification  regime  is  progressing  in  accordance  with 
our planning.
The reliability of the verification regime has been 
demonstrated by the performance of the system in its 
timely and accurate detection of each and every nuclear 
test conducted by the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea. On the occasion of the nuclear test conducted in 
September  2017  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea, the identified test-area error ellipse was only 
110  square  kilometres  and  has  since  shrunken  to  less 
than  10  square  kilometres,  bearing  in  mind  that  the 
Treaty stipulates that the area of an on-site inspection 
site can be up to 1,000 square kilometres. Our precision 
has  increased  nearly  ten-fold.  For  the  five  previous 
tests,  data  from  125  international  monitoring  stations 
were used to determine the magnitude of the events and 
compute their locations.
The Treaty’s verification regime and its associated 
technology  and  data  have  also  proven  valuable 
for  civil  and  scientific  purposes.  For  example,  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
cooperates  with  UNESCO  in  the  area  of  tsunami 
early warning. It also provided timely and trustworthy 
information  on  the  dispersion  of  radiation  during  the 
Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power  plant  accident. 
By  virtue  of  the  quality  and  accuracy  of  its  data,  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
is  now  a  member  of  the  Inter-Agency  Committee  on 
Radiological and Nuclear Emergencies. The Committee 
is tasked with coordinating among relevant international 
4/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
intergovernmental  organizations  to  prepare  for  and 
respond  to  nuclear  and  radiological  emergencies.  The 
potential  for  International  Monitoring-System  data  to 
contribute to volcanic ash advisories for airline safety, 
other disaster risk reduction and mitigation efforts and 
countless other related areas is currently being explored.
Nuclear test monitoring data and technologies can 
also  help  support  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs). International Monitoring System stations can 
be a valuable asset for research related to climate change 
in  line  with  SDG  13,  on  climate  action.  Monitoring 
the  movements  of  glaciers,  hurricanes  and  tornadoes 
and  the  seasonal  variations  of  specific  radionuclides 
helps  scientists  better  understand 
the  effects  of 
climate  change.  Moreover,  the  hydroacoustic  stations 
of  the  International  Monitoring  System  help  whale 
conservation efforts by recording whale vocalizations 
to  support  research  on  whale  populations  and  their 
migration patterns, thereby contributing to SDG 14, on 
life below water.
technological  community.  That 
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  verification  regime 
remains  at  the  forefront  of  scientific  and  technical 
innovation, we must also strive to further enhance the 
Organization’s  strong  relationship  with  the  scientific 
and 
is  achieved 
through the CTBT’s biennial Science and Technology 
Conference  series,  which  is  organized  for  scientists 
and  experts  from  a  broad  range  of  disciplines  that 
are  relevant  to  all  aspects  of  nuclear-test  monitoring. 
The sixth Science and Technology Conference, which 
was  held  in  Vienna  in  2017,  welcomed  nearly  1,000 
scientists, academics, students, members of the media 
and  representatives  from  Government  agencies  from 
more  than  120  countries.  Throughout  the  conference, 
650  abstracts,  nearly  400  posters  and  100  oral 
presentations  were  disseminated.  Preparations  for  the 
next  event,  which  will  take  place  from  24  to  28  June 
2019, are well under way. The successful development 
of  the  Treaty’s  verification  regime  is  a  product  of 
enormous  collective  investment.  Member  States  have 
contributed substantial financial support valued at more 
than $1 billion. They have invested their time, energy 
and resources to help put in place the most expansive 
verification regime ever designed. We must all strive to 
ensure that those investments are protected.
I will now speak about the Organization’s enhanced 
cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations.  Promoting 
international  peace  and  security  through  collective 
action is at the core of the work of the United Nations. 
There is no greater threat in scale and consequence to 
peace  and  security  than  the  use  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. As such, the United Nations has tirelessly 
endeavoured  since  its  establishment  to  reduce  and 
eliminate  that  risk.  Multilateral  non-proliferation  and 
disarmament instruments, such as the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, constitute the legal, technical 
and  normative  backbone  of  those  efforts.  It  is  only 
once we have fully implemented the Treaty and other 
key  elements  of  a  multilaterally  verifiable  nuclear 
disarmament  framework  that  we  will  move  closer 
to  realizing  our  vision  of  a  world  free  from  nuclear 
weapons. Since the CTBT opened for signature, more 
than 20 years ago, the United Nations has consistently 
supported  the  effective  implementation  of  the  Treaty 
and the efforts to advance its entry into force.
The launch in May of the Secretary-General’s agenda 
for disarmament underpins the United Nations effort to 
advance cooperation with the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty Organization. Notably, action point 4 
of the implementation plan  towards the elimination of 
nuclear weapons is “Bring the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban Treaty into force”. To that end, the Secretary-
General aims to facilitate progress in the signing and 
ratification  of  the  Treaty  through  active  diplomacy, 
public outreach and coordination with the organization 
and its member States. Such advocacy will include direct 
engagement with the Heads of State or Government of 
the annex 2 States. I applaud the Secretary-General for 
taking the initiative on that important issue, and I look 
forward to cooperating with him and his good offices 
towards our shared goals.
Of course, those activities are directly in line with 
the Agreement to Regulate the Relationship between the 
United Nations and the Preparatory Commission for the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, 
which recognizes the need for the two bodies to work 
jointly  in  order  to  achieve  their  common  objectives. 
Another aspect of the Agreement that I would like to 
highlight is reciprocal representation. The Agreement 
states  that,  whenever  other  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations consider matters that are of relevance to 
the activities of the CTBTO Preparatory Commission, 
the Executive Secretary or a designated representative 
may, at the invitation of that organ, attend its meetings 
to supply it with information. In that context, I would 
like to report that on 27 September, on the margins of 
the General Assembly high-level week, I attended the 
meeting  of  the  Security  Council  (see  S/PV.8363)  on 
18-39775
5/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
non-proliferation and the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea. The meeting provided an important platform 
for States and relevant entities to stress the importance 
of the CTBT for international peace and security and to 
appeal for the Treaty’s entry into force. I wish to reiterate 
the  readiness  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  Organization  to  participate,  as  appropriate,  in 
meetings and provide relevant information and reports 
in order to contribute to discussions and deliberations 
on those critical issues.
The  relationship  agreement  also  calls  on  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
to furnish special studies or information, as requested 
by the United Nations, as well as to provide, within its 
competence  and  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
the  Treaty,  information  and  assistance  to  the  United 
Nations  in  the  exercise  of  its  responsibilities  under 
the Charter of the United Nations. That is particularly 
relevant in the light of the Secretary-General’s remarks 
concerning  the  readiness  of  United  Nations  agencies 
to  support  the  process  of  denuclearization  in  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The  recent 
announcement  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea that it is committed to inviting international 
inspectors to confirm a closure of its nuclear-test site has 
opened a window of opportunity for the organization.
Within  its  mandate  and  with  the  approval  of  our 
member  States,  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  Organization  Preparatory  Commission  stands 
ready  to  contribute  its  expertise,  technologies  and 
monitoring  assets  to  any  multilateral  process  aimed 
at  confirming  the  closure  of  the  Punggye-ri  nuclear-
test  site.  Moreover,  if  an  agreement  on  verifiable 
denuclearization  is  reached,  a  prohibition  on  nuclear 
tests must be included as an interim step pending the 
ratification  of  the  CTBT  by  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. The organization and its verification 
regime  can  be  explicitly  called  upon  to  verify  that 
aspect of the agreement.
If  the  international  community  is  serious  about 
its  commitment  to  achieving  a  world  free  from 
nuclear tests, then we must be prepared to seize every 
opportunity to promote the CTBT and advance its entry 
into  force.  If  the  ongoing  talks  with  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  —  the  only  country  to 
test  in  the  twenty-first  century  —  do  not  constitute 
such  an  opportunity,  then  I  do  not  know  what  does. 
Engagement  with  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea offers opportunities to continue to prove that 
the organization’s technical capabilities are mature and 
primed to fulfil the verification task. Such engagement 
also  holds  the  potential  to  bring  Pyongyang  into  the 
orbit of the CTBT as one of the most challenging States 
listed in the Treaty’s annex 2. This is nothing short of a 
historic opportunity for the Treaty and its verification 
regime, and if we want to see a worldwide halt to nuclear 
testing, we must be ready and willing to seize it.
Another  key  focus  of  the  organization  is  to 
empower the next generation, in particular women, to 
work to ensure the Treaty’s verifiability well into the 
twenty-first  century  and  beyond.  For  that  reason,  we 
have established the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty Organization Youth Group, in recognition of the 
importance of the next generation’s active involvement 
aimed at advancing the Treaty’s entry into force. The 
Youth Group has reached a membership of more than 
500  and  is  creating  a  groundswell  of  excitement  and 
support for the CTBT and its role in international peace 
and  security.  Through  active  engagement,  sustained 
advocacy and research and publishing, the Youth Group 
is complementing the efforts of the organization and its 
member States to ensure that the CTBT remains firmly 
at the top of the international agenda.
Looking  ahead,  it  is  impossible  not  to  recognize, 
and  perhaps  even  to  dwell  upon,  the  challenges  that 
confront  the  international  community,  including  the 
viability of multilateralism as a means to advance peace 
and  security.  That  is  particularly  true  in  the  area  of 
nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament.  However, 
after decades of consistent efforts and hard work, the 
CTBT and its verification regime have become the most 
practical  and  achievable  step  towards  a  world  free  of 
nuclear  weapons.  The  success  of  the  CTBT  will  be  a 
success for multilateralism.
The  world  is  already  benefiting  from  the  value 
of  the  CTBT  under  the  de  facto  global  norm  against 
nuclear  testing;  but,  without  determined  and  urgent 
action  to  maintain  the  Treaty’s  relevance  and  bring 
about its entry into force, the goodwill and momentum 
generated  in  recent  years  will  remain  at  risk.  The 
General Assembly’s leadership can make a difference 
in  that  regard  by  finishing  what  we  started  with  the 
CTBT. Let us strengthen our resolve and work together 
to bring the Treaty into force as a key step towards the 
realization of lasting peace and security in a world free 
from nuclear weapons.
6/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Croatia to introduce draft resolutions 
A/73/L.17 and A/73/L.27.
Mr.  Drobnjak  (Croatia):  I  have  the  honour  to 
introduce  two  draft  resolutions  today.  The  first  one 
is  draft  resolution  A/73/L.17,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Central European 
Initiative”, which I have the privilege to introduce on 
behalf of 17 members of the Initiative, who are original 
co-sponsors of the draft resolution.
The  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  Central  European  Initiative  (CEI)  began  with 
resolution  66/111,  adopted  on  9  December  2011,  by 
which  observer  status  was  granted  to  the  Initiative. 
The cooperation between the two entities is focused on 
furthering political and socioeconomic development. In 
that respect, I should especially highlight the Initiative’s 
plan  of  action  for  the  period  2018-2020,  which  was 
drawn up in line with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  contributes  to  its  implementation 
through projects at the regional level.
The CEI is committed to fruitful cooperation with 
the United Nations, the specialized agencies and other 
organizations  and  programmes  of  the  United  Nations 
system, with the aim of achieving mutual participation 
in  events  and  meetings  of  common  interest  and 
developing practical and results-oriented joint projects, 
in  particular  with  UNESCO  and 
the  Economic 
Commission for Europe.
As Croatia holds the presidency of the CEI for 2018, 
allow  me  to  express  our  gratitude  to  all  the  member 
States  of  the  Initiative  for  their  excellent  cooperation 
with  the  presidency.  Let  me  conclude  this  part  of 
my  introduction  by  stating  that  the  member  States 
of  the  CEI  express  their  hope  that  this  biennial  draft 
resolution  will  be  adopted  without  a  vote,  as  was  the 
case on previous occasions.
Allow  me  now  to  turn  to  the  second  part  of  my 
introduction.  Based  on  the  mandate  given  by  the 
Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe  to 
the Croatian chairmanship of the Council for the period 
from May to November 2018, which officially ended on 
21 November, I also have the honour to introduce draft 
resolution  A/73/L.27,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe,”  on 
behalf of the co-sponsors.
With the Council of Europe’s seventieth anniversary 
approaching  in  2019,  it  is  worth  mentioning  that 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Council 
of Europe started as early as in 1951 and was updated 
in 1971 with the cooperative arrangements between the 
secretariats  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of 
Europe. In 1989, the Assembly granted the Council of 
Europe  an  invitation  to  participate  as  an  observer  in 
its sessions. From 2000 onwards and every second year 
since 2004, a draft resolution on cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Council of Europe has been 
submitted and adopted.
The draft text before us today includes important 
updates  with  regard  to  the  work  undertaken  by  the 
Council of Europe and the United Nations in areas of 
common interest since the adoption of resolution 71/17, 
in  2016,  and  it  recognizes  the  ever-increasing  role  of 
the Council of Europe in protecting and strengthening 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  promoting 
democracy  and  upholding  and  strengthening 
the 
rule  of  law  through  its  standards,  principles  and 
monitoring  mechanisms,  as  well  as 
the 
effective  implementation  of  its  legal  instruments.  It 
also reaffirms the commitments and aspirations of both 
organizations  to  further  enhance  their  cooperation  in 
fields of common interest.
through 
The  Council  of  Europe  remains  committed  to 
the  promotion  of  its  objectives  around  its  three  key 
pillars  —  human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law — and stands ready for dialogue and cooperation 
to advance its core values and achieve greater synergy 
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
In conclusion, I take this opportunity to thank all 
members  of  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  observer 
States  for  their  cooperation  and  the  support  extended 
to  the  Croatian  chairmanship  and  all  other  New 
York-based  delegations  that  have  been  actively  and 
constructively  engaged  during  the  discussions  on  the 
draft resolution before us, enabling us today to have a 
text that we hope can be adopted without a vote, as on 
previous occasions.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Brazil  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.21.
Mr. Vieira (Brazil): I have the honour to introduce, 
on behalf of Switzerland and my own country, Brazil, 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.21,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
18-39775
7/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
Criminal  Police  Organization  (INTERPOL)”.  Brazil 
has  been  a  member  of  INTERPOL  since  1986,  and 
Switzerland  since  1956.  Both  our  countries  have 
maintained  close  cooperation  with  INTERPOL  over 
the years and strongly support INTERPOL’s activities, 
goals and objectives.
The  Office  of  the  Special  Representative  of 
INTERPOL  to  the  United  Nations  in  New  York  was 
established  in  October  2004  so  as  to  raise  awareness 
of  INTERPOL’s  role  within 
the  United  Nations 
community  and  to  encourage  the  use  of  its  tools, 
databases and resources available to Member States that 
are  also  member  countries  of  INTERPOL,  as  well  as 
to identify areas of common interest and opportunities 
for increased cooperation and coordination. The Office 
has taken a lead role in further enhancing INTERPOL’s 
cooperation  with  United  Nations  entities  directly 
involved  in  activities  related  to  law  enforcement, 
such  as  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  Executive 
Directorate and the Office of Counter-Terrorism.
adopted 
The  General  Assembly 
resolution 
71/19  by  consensus  in  2016,  the  first  resolution  to 
address  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  represents 
the first review of the original text. The fundamental 
threefold  purpose  of  the  draft  resolution  remains 
unchanged:  acknowledging  and  taking  stock  of  the 
existing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL,  strengthening  that  cooperation  within 
the  respective  mandates  of  both  organizations  and 
raising awareness among Member States of the role of 
INTERPOL at the United Nations.
We are convinced that the reviewed draft resolution 
is a solid and well-balanced text. It reflects the significant 
changes  in  the  international  security  priorities  at  the 
United Nations since the first resolution was adopted, 
such  as  counter-terrorism  activities,  foreign  terrorist 
fighters and the need to counter the use of information 
and  communications  technologies  for  criminal  or 
terrorist purposes, among others. It is our hope that the 
draft resolution will build a strong basis for the further 
strengthening  of  the  cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and INTERPOL, for the benefit of all Member 
States that are also member countries of INTERPOL.
The 
revised  draft 
the 
strengthening  of  cooperation  in  two  main  areas, 
namely, preventing and combating transnational crime 
and  preventing  and  countering  terrorism.  Throughout 
resolution  calls 
for 
the  operative  paragraphs,  those  two  main  areas  are 
broken  down  into  a  wide  range  of  topics,  such  as 
combating  trafficking  in  persons  and  the  smuggling 
of  migrants,  tackling  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms 
and  light  weapons  and  supporting  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding efforts, just to name a few. Furthermore, 
the  main  INTERPOL  tools,  databases  and  other 
resources  readily  available  to  Member  States  are  all 
mentioned in the text. It goes without saying that those 
new additions and improvements will help the work of 
INTERPOL at the United Nations.
In  our  view,  it  is  a  great  achievement  to  have 
reached  consensus  on  such  important  and  complex 
issues, which have an impact at the national, regional 
and  global  levels.  By  taking  advantage  of  existing 
synergies,  stronger  cooperation  and  coordination 
between  the  United  Nations  and  INTERPOL  will 
serve the goals and purposes of both organizations and 
ultimately contribute to long-term improvements in law 
enforcement activities.
On  behalf  of  the  main  sponsors,  Brazil  and 
Switzerland,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  the  representatives  of  all  of  the  Member  States 
who actively took part in the consultations process for 
their  constructive  inputs.  Our  thanks  also  go  to  the 
members  of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Representative 
of INTERPOL to the United Nations for the excellent 
technical advice provided throughout the negotiations. 
Their  valuable  contributions,  guidance  and  support 
have been greatly appreciated by all delegations.
Finally, we sincerely appreciate the presence today 
of  the  Secretary  General  of  INTERPOL,  Mr.  Jürgen 
Stock, who will address the Assembly later, as a strong 
sign of INTERPOL’s support for our work here at the 
United Nations.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Italy  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.22.
Mrs.  Zappia  (Italy):  Allow  me,  first  of  all,  to 
express my appreciation to the Executive Secretary of 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO), 
Mr. Lassina Zerbo, for his statement and for his report 
on the major activities carried out by the Preparatory 
Commission and the Provisional Technical Secretariat 
in 2017.
8/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
the 
Today’s  debate  on 
the  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  CTBTO  in  the  General 
Assembly  provides 
international  community 
with  an  opportunity  to  renew  its  commitment  to  the 
ultimate  goal  of  a  peaceful  and  secure  world  free  of 
nuclear  weapons.  A  progressive  approach  based  on 
concrete  and  verifiable  measures  aimed  at  enhancing 
mutual  confidence  and  increasing  the  perception  of 
solid  international  security  may  play  a  decisive  role 
in  furthering  such  a  goal.  The  entry  into  force  of  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) has a 
crucial place among nuclear disarmament measures.
During  the  past  two  decades,  despite  not  having 
entered  into  force,  the  CTBT  has  paved  the  way  for 
a  moratorium  on  nuclear  tests  that  in  the  twenty-
first  century  has  been  implemented  by  all  countries 
in  the  world  but  one.  And,  through  its  Preparatory 
Commission and Provisional Technical Secretariat, the 
CTBT has led to the establishment of a highly effective 
and  fully  reliable  global  monitoring  system,  whose 
invaluable  role  in  quickly  providing  trustworthy  and 
independent data has been demonstrated repeatedly.
requires 
the  way 
However,  progress  along 
towards 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament 
that 
the  current  voluntary  moratorium  on  nuclear-test 
explosions be translated into a binding norm by means 
of the CTBT’s entry into force. Our shared commitment 
is  crucial  to  reaching  that  goal.  As  the  2018  Chair  of 
the  CTBTO  Preparatory  Commission,  Italy  invites 
all  partners  to  work  closely  together  to  turn  political 
momentum into action and, eventually, reality.
the  countries 
that  have  chaired 
In  that  very  spirit,  following  a  consolidated 
practice  by 
the 
CTBTO  Preparatory  Commission,  and  consistent 
with  the  cooperation  agreement  concluded  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission 
in  2000,  the  delegation  of  Italy  wishes  to  submit  to 
the  General  Assembly  draft  resolution  A/73/L.22, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”.
Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General 
on  the  Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  and  other  organizations  (A/73/328),  as  well 
as  of  the  report  of  the  Executive  Secretary  of  the 
Preparatory  Commission  for  the  CTBTO,  and  noting 
with appreciation the establishment of the CTBTO New 
York liaison mechanism in June 2017, the text envisages 
the decision to include in the provisional agenda of the 
seventy-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  under 
the  item  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations”,  a  sub-item 
specifically  devoted  to  discussing  the  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  CTBTO.  In  that  regard,  the 
Secretariat  has  informed  us  that  an  oral  amendment 
is required regarding the third preambular paragraph, 
which should read as follows:
“Noting  with  appreciation  the  establishment 
of  the  New  York  liaison  mechanism  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission 
for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
Organization in June 2017”.
This  draft  resolution,  which  has  been  submitted 
biennially  for  several  years,  performs  a  procedural 
function  but,  above  all,  it  has  a  political  value.  The 
activities  that  the  Preparatory  Commission  and  the 
Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  are  performing 
pursuant  to  the  Treaty  and  the  CTBTO  resolution 
establishing  the  Preparatory  Commission  to  foster 
non-proliferation  and  security  contribute 
the 
fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations.  Close  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  CTBTO  Preparatory 
Commission  therefore  serves  the  interests  of  the 
international community. Synergies are in fact mutually 
beneficial and need to be pursued with determination.
to 
Against  that  backdrop,  we  are  confident  that  the 
General  Assembly  will  be  willing  to  adopt  the  draft 
resolution we have submitted, as a means to continue 
keeping  non-proliferation  and  disarmament  high  on 
our agenda.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform 
members  that  action  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.23, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States” is postponed to a later date 
to  allow  time  for  a  review  of  its  programme  budget 
implications by the Fifth Committee.
I now give the floor to the representative of Qatar 
to introduce draft resolution A/73/L.23.
Ms. Al Thani (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): As Chair 
of the Group of Arab States for the month of November, 
and on behalf of the following Arab countries — Algeria, 
Bahrain,  Comoros,  Djibouti,  Egypt,  Iraq,  Jordan, 
Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, 
18-39775
9/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
Palestine,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia,  the  Sudan,  Somalia, 
Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, Yemen — it is my 
honour to introduce to the General Assembly the draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/73/L.23,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League of Arab States”.
The  draft  resolution  before  members  embodies 
one  of  the  fundamental  principles  established  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations, namely, the cooperation 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
in  areas  of  common  interest,  particularly  in  the  area 
of international peace and security, as provided for in 
Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter.  The  draft  resolution  is 
based  on  the  need  to  strengthen  cooperation  between 
the  two  organizations,  the  United  Nations  and  the 
League of Arab States, with a view to achieving their 
common goals and objectives.
The  draft  resolution  reflects  the  high  level  of 
cooperation  between  the  secretariats  of  the  United 
Nations and the League of Arab States at the practical 
level  as  well  as  the  ongoing  efforts  to  continue  and 
strengthen  their  cooperation  in  the  future.  The  draft 
resolution  further  aims  to  continue  and  improve 
interaction  and  consultation  between  the  specialized 
agencies,  programmes  and  institutions  of  the  United 
Nations and their counterparts from Arab organizations 
and institutions.
Consequently, we call on Member States to support 
the draft resolution contained in document A/73/L.23, 
and we call on the General Assembly as well to adopt 
it by consensus.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Azerbaijan  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/73/L.25.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan):  In  our  capacity  as 
the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Chairman-in-Office  of 
Cooperation  Organization 
the  Republic 
of  Azerbaijan  is  pleased  to  introduce,  on  behalf  of 
its  sponsors,  draft  resolution  A/73/L.25,  submitted 
under  sub-item  (o)  of  agenda  item  128  and  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”.
(BSEC), 
The draft resolution, which is based on resolution 
71/18, adopted by consensus by the General Assembly 
on  21  November  2016,  was  discussed  in  informal 
consultations  in  an  open  and  transparent  manner.  It 
includes  substantive  and  technical  updates  and  new 
paragraphs  reflecting  developments  over  the  past 
two  years.  I  would  like  to  thank  delegations  for  their 
constructive approach and contribution throughout the 
negotiations process.
The  draft  resolution  reiterates  the  conviction 
that  the  strengthening  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  other  organizations  contributes 
to  the  promotion  of  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  United  Nations.  It  further  refers  to  the  activities 
of  the  organization  aimed  at  strengthening  regional 
cooperation in various fields and welcomes the efforts 
towards  elaborating  and  implementing  concrete  joint 
regional projects.
The  draft 
resolution  welcomes 
the  ongoing 
cooperation  by  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization  with 
funds,  programmes  and 
specialized agencies of the United Nations system and 
encourages  developing  practical  and  goal-oriented 
projects  in  areas  of  common  interest.  It  also  seeks 
to  promote  the  interest  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic 
Cooperation Organization in the implementation of the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  bearing 
in  mind  the  importance  of  regional  and  subregional 
dimensions  and 
sustainable 
development  and  their  supporting  role  in  facilitating 
the  effective  translation  of  sustainable  development 
policies into concrete action at the national level.
the 
interconnectivity 
in 
The  report  of 
the  Secretary-General  entitled 
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional 
and  other  organizations”  (A/73/328)  describes,  inter 
alia, the joint activities of the United Nations and the 
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization and the 
reinforced engagement of the United Nations with the 
BSEC secretariat and its member States with respect to 
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
The  adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  will  further 
contribute to enhancing cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization, supporting the implementation of ongoing 
projects in areas of mutual interest and strengthening 
the relevance and visibility of the activities undertaken 
for  the  benefit  of  the  countries  of  the  region.  We 
look  forward  to  Member  States  support  for  the  draft 
resolution and its adoption by consensus.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Republic of Moldova to introduce 
draft resolution A/73/L.26/Rev.1.
10/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
Mr. Moraru (Republic of Moldova): As the country 
currently holding the chairmanship of the Organization 
for Democracy and Economic Development — GUAM, 
the Republic of Moldova has the honour to introduce, on 
behalf of its sponsors, draft resolution A/73/L.26 Rev.1, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Organization  for  Democracy  and  Economic 
Development — GUAM”.
a 
full-fledged 
As 
international 
regional 
organization,  with  the  distinct  vocation  of  promoting 
democracy  in  its  member  States  and  their  economic 
development,  GUAM  attaches  great  importance  to 
cooperation with the United Nations. That cooperation 
began in 2004, when GUAM obtained observer status 
in  the  General  Assembly,  pursuant  to  resolution 
58/85.  The  United  Nations  has  been  an  important 
partner  to  the  GUAM  member  States  in  their  pursuit 
of stability and sustainable development. The previous 
resolutions  on  this  subject,  particularly  the  biennial 
resolutions 67/109 and 69/271, all entitled “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for 
Democracy  and  Economic  Development  —  GUAM”, 
defined  the  framework  for  cooperation  between  the 
two  organizations.  The  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/73/328),  submitted  under  the  current  agenda  item, 
highlights  some  areas  of  focus  where  cooperation 
between the United Nations and GUAM was envisaged 
in the period since then in terms of enhanced interaction.
The draft resolution that is being introduced today 
under  sub-item  (v)  of  agenda  item  128  underscores 
the  importance  of  continued  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  GUAM  and  acknowledges 
GUAM’S efforts to enhance cooperative relationships 
with the United Nations and its member States. It also 
takes  note  of  GUAM’s  activities  aimed  at  promoting 
regional cooperation in various areas.
The overall goal of the draft resolution is to further 
develop  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations 
and  GUAM  and  through  a  dynamic  and  substantive 
partnership to better contribute to the promotion of the 
vision and principles set out in the Charter of the United 
Nations. It emphasizes the importance of strengthening 
dialogue,  cooperation  and  coordination  between  the 
United  Nations  system  and  GUAM,  and  urges  the 
agencies,  programmes,  funds  and  other  specialized 
institutions  of  the  United  Nations  to  cooperate  and 
develop  direct  contacts  with  GUAM  for  the  joint 
implementation of projects aimed at attaining common 
objectives.  Lastly,  it  asks  the  Secretary-General  to 
submit  to  the  General  Assembly,  at  its  seventy-fifth 
session, a report on the implementation of the current 
draft resolution.
The  text  of  the  draft  resolution  proposed  for 
adoption  today  is  based  on  the  Assembly’s  previous 
consensus resolutions on the topic. It has been discussed 
in  informal  consultations  in  an  open  and  transparent 
manner. The sponsors of the draft resolution took into 
account the comments and suggestions of all interested 
delegations.  I  sincerely  hope  that  this  year’s  draft 
resolution will be adopted without a vote, as has been 
the case in past years.
In  conclusion,  I  would  also  like  to  express  the 
sponsors’  firm  belief  that  once  the  draft  resolution  is 
adopted it will further strengthen cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  GUAM,  thereby  contributing 
to  the  promotion  of  shared  objectives  in  the  area  of 
international  peace  and  development,  including  the 
Sustainable Development Goals, as set out in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Tajikistan to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.28.
Mr. Hikmatov (Tajikistan) (spoke in Russian): The 
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan,  as  President 
of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) for 
2018, has the honour to submit for the attention of the 
General Assembly draft resolution A/73/L.28, entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Commonwealth of Independent States”.
Throughout  its  existence  the  Commonwealth  has 
frequently demonstrated that it is a useful platform for 
dialogue  between  its  member  countries  on  political, 
economic, social and humanitarian issues, and today it 
is as much in demand as ever with respect to a number 
of important topics. It was an important milestone for 
the CIS when the General Assembly granted it observer 
status in March 1994, while on 3 August of the same 
year,  the  Secretariat  registered  the  CIS  Charter  as  a 
multilateral  agreement  and  the  Commonwealth  was 
recognized  as  a  regional  international  organization. 
As such, it participates in all major forums held by the 
United Nations and other international organizations.
The new session of the Council of Head of States 
of the Commonwealth, held in Dushanbe in September, 
was an event of key significance for our organization. 
The meeting paid particular attention to issues related 
18-39775
11/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
to  further  strengthening  cooperation  between  CIS 
member  States  in  the  areas  of  ensuring  security  and 
stability  in  the  Commonwealth,  trade  and  economic 
cooperation,  energy,  transport  and  communications, 
and  the  development  of  cooperation  in  the  areas  of 
science, education, youth policy, health care, sport and 
tourism, including issues related to the free movement 
of  goods,  investments  and  services,  and  cultural  and 
humanitarian cooperation. The meeting culminated in 
the adoption of 16 decisions and a number of political 
statements, one of the most important of which was a 
declaration by the Heads of State of the CIS countries 
on  the  occasion  of  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  that  reaffirmed  our  unwavering  commitment 
to  promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms.
the  CIS 
I  would  like  to  point  out  that  one  of  the  priority 
areas  of  Tajikistan’s  presidency  of 
is 
strengthening  cooperation  between  member  States  of 
the Commonwealth within the framework of the United 
Nations. We have accumulated solid experience in that 
regard  at  various  levels  of  cooperation  between  the 
CIS  and  the  United  Nations  aimed  at  addressing  our 
common social, economic and humanitarian challenges. 
However,  in  order  to  strengthen  the  practical  aspects 
of  our  cooperation  and  make  it  more  effective,  a 
systemic  foundation  for  that  collaboration  that  will 
help  to  develop  and  deepen  the  ties  between  the  CIS 
and  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  is 
essential.  That  is  the  purpose  of  the  draft  resolution 
on  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States”  that  is  before 
the Assembly today.
In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude 
to  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  for  their 
support to this draft resolution, which we hope will be 
adopted by consensus.
Mr.  Chua  (Singapore):  I  thank  the  President  for 
convening today’s important debate. I would also like 
to thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report on the cooperation between the United Nations 
and  regional  and  other  organizations  (A/73/328).  The 
activities  and  achievements  outlined  in  the  report 
illustrate the depth and breadth of cooperation between 
the United Nations and its partners.
Today’s  uncertain  global  landscape  is  evolving  at 
a  rapid  pace.  Many  of  the  challenges  we  face  are  no 
longer neatly confined within geographical boundaries. 
Terrorism, cybercrime and climate change are just some 
examples of the complex issues that are transboundary 
in  nature.  The  United  Nations  cannot  deal  with 
those  contemporary  threats  alone;  regional  and  other 
organizations  must  be  meaningfully  engaged 
to 
complement the work of the United Nations in addressing 
such 
their  specialized  knowledge, 
functional  expertise  and  holistic  understanding  of 
regional  contexts,  regional  organizations  will  be  able 
to enhance the work of the United Nations in a manner 
that takes into account the specific circumstances and 
needs of each Member State.
issues.  Given 
Singapore therefore welcomes the draft resolutions 
before the Assembly on cooperation between the United 
Nations and regional and other organizations (A/73/L.17, 
A/73/L.21,  A/73/L.22,  A/73/L.23,  A/73/L.25, 
A/73/L.26/Rev.1,  A/73/L.27,  A/73/L.28).  The  draft 
resolutions  are  testament  to  the  broad  outreach  and 
deep engagement between the United Nations and the 
relevant organizations. Critically, the draft resolutions 
demonstrate the interest of the United Nations in further 
collaboration with these organizations.
Singapore’s view is that the United Nations network 
of  partnerships  should  be  deepened  and  expanded. 
In  addition,  cooperation  and  synergies  among  the 
different regional organizations should be strengthened. 
To  that  end,  we  welcome  the  interactive  dialogue 
meetings between the Secretary-General and heads of 
regional  organizations  as  a  concrete  way  to  promote 
understanding of each region’s unique circumstances.
Singapore would like to highlight our sponsorship 
of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.21,  entitled  “Cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal  Police  Organization 
(INTERPOL)”.  A 
predecessor resolution on this topic was first considered 
and adopted two years ago at the seventy-first session of 
the General Assembly (resolution 71/19). Important and 
timely updates have been made to the draft resolution 
to reflect present realities and the constantly evolving 
nature of threats, for example, through the prevention 
and  disruption  of  foreign  terrorist  fighter  travel  and 
countering the use of information and communication 
technologies  for  terrorist  purposes.  It  also  highlights 
INTERPOL’s  capabilities  that  Member  States  can 
leverage, such as the Stolen and Lost Travel Document 
Database.  Tackling  such 
threats  requires  greater 
cooperation  between  States  Members  of  the  United 
12/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
Nations  and  INTERPOL,  which  is  exactly  what  the 
draft resolution calls for.
Since  its  establishment,  INTERPOL  has  played  a 
critical role in international law enforcement. Singapore 
is  proud  to  play  our  part  in  this  endeavour.  We  have 
been a member of INTERPOL since 1968 and host the 
INTERPOL Global Complex for Innovation, established 
in 2015. The Complex aids in the identification of crimes 
and criminals using advanced tools and capabilities and 
provides capacity training and operational support.
As the Chair of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations  (ASEAN)  this  year,  Singapore,  on  behalf  of 
ASEAN, will submit a draft resolution on cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  ASEAN  (A/73/L.71). 
We  look  forward  to  the  support  of  the  international 
community for the draft resolution.
The  need  for  greater  engagement  by  regional  and 
other  organizations  is  increasingly  urgent  owing  to 
mounting concerns about the utility of multilateralism 
and  the  propensity  of  some  to  resort  to  unilateral 
solutions.  Strengthening  the  symbiotic  relationship 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
will  send  a  strong  signal  that  greater  cooperation, 
engagement and trust are the way forward in overcoming 
these challenges.
Ms.  Alsabah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  associate  ourselves  with  the 
statement made by the Permanent Representative of the 
State of Qatar on behalf of the Group of Arab States, as 
well as with the statement to be made by the Permanent 
Observer of the League of Arab States (LAS).
My  delegation  has  carefully  reviewed  the  report 
of  the  Secretary-General  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations 
(A/73/328), which details the cooperation between the 
United Nations and 26 regional and other organizations. 
The  report  stresses  the  importance  of  continuing  to 
deepen  existing  cooperation  arrangements  and  of 
considering  new  ones,  as  appropriate,  with  the  aim 
of  achieving  the  noble  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  thereby  fulfilling 
the  aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  towards 
achieving  security,  peace  and  stability  and  enjoying 
human rights, development and well-being.
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  has  become  a 
necessity given the world situations and circumstances, 
their  variables  and  enormous  challenges,  on  the  one 
hand, and the unprecedented growing role of regional 
organizations,  on  the  other  hand.  The  objective  is  to 
achieve  international  peace  and  security,  especially 
in the midst of the increase in intrastate and regional 
conflicts. By emphasizing the importance of this kind of 
cooperation, many regional organizations have sought 
to cooperate with the United Nations in accordance with 
Chapter VIII of the Charter in order to address security 
challenges and settle conflicts throughout the world.
The complex, multidimensional and unpredictable 
challenges we face today make multilateral cooperation 
increasingly  important.  Regional  organizations  often 
have a better understanding of the nature of a conflict as 
a result of their closer geographic, historic, cultural and 
social ties to it. That means that regional organizations 
are better able to understand the root causes of conflicts 
and identify the best options for resolving them.
The  State  of  Kuwait  is  a  member  of  two  very 
important  regional  organizations:  the  LAS  and  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC).  Both 
organizations have enjoyed a long relationship with the 
United Nations for more than three decades. We call for 
strengthening and enhancing the ongoing cooperation 
in order to achieve peace, security and stability in our 
Arab  and  Islamic  worlds.  Our  brotherly  peoples  in 
Palestine,  Syria,  Yemen  and  Libya  and  the  Rohingya 
minority all have the right to enjoy peace, development 
and prosperity following the tremendous humanitarian 
suffering they have experienced as a result of gross and 
flagrant  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
and international human rights law.
In  order  to  develop  cooperation  between  the 
United Nations, the LAS and OIC, the State of Kuwait 
deems  it  important  to  conclude  more  memorandums 
of  understanding  and  other  agreements  between 
the  United  Nations  and  those  two  organizations, 
while  taking  into  consideration  the  capabilities  and 
responsibilities  of  each  of  them.  The  aim  is  to  define 
a  clear  and  effective  framework  for  the  cooperation 
and  coordination  mechanism 
that  could  enhance 
dialogue  and  exchange  of  expertise.  It  is  also  useful 
to expand cooperation in order to include the areas of 
development,  economics  and  sociocultural,  as  well  as 
humanitarian and environmental domains. That would 
help to address the root causes of crises and conflicts 
with a view to resolving them.
18-39775
13/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
in  maintaining 
In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  belief  that  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations 
international  peace  and 
security,  preventing  conflicts  and  resolving  them 
by  peaceful  means  could  be  best  achieved  through 
deepened  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and regional organizations, in order to energise early-
warning  mechanisms,  preventive  diplomacy  and 
swift  appropriate  response  to  conflicts  looming  on 
the horizon.
Mrs.  Ataeva  (Turkmenistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
The  delegation  of  Turkmenistan  would  like  to  thank 
the Secretary-General for the preparation of his report 
(A/73/328) on the implementation of resolution 72/273, 
on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea.
The situation in the Aral Sea region is one of the 
worst global environmental disasters in recent history, 
whose  consequences  are  being  felt  by  Central  Asia’s 
population of more than 60 million people. Today the 
effects  of  the  Aral  Sea  disaster  can  be  perceived  all 
over  the  world.  According  to  international  experts, 
toxic salts from the Aral Sea region have been found on 
the shores of the Antarctic, in glaciers in Greenland, in 
Norwegian forests and many other parts of the world. 
Right now the most crucial task we have is reducing the 
destructive consequences of the Aral Sea crisis for the 
surrounding environment and the health and existence 
of the millions of people living in the Aral Sea basin.
In that connection, at the United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro in June 
2012,  the  President  of  Turkmenistan  emphasized  that 
the problem of the Aral Sea had by then gone far beyond 
the  boundaries  of  the  region.  It  had  become  a  truly 
global  problem  and  a  completely  new  approach  was 
therefore needed to address the environmental, social, 
humanitarian,  economic  and  other  issues  resulting 
from it. In that regard, the President of Turkmenistan 
proposed  establishing  a  separate  entity  within  the 
United Nations, in the form of a special programme for 
the Aral region. We are grateful to the United Nations 
and  its  bodies,  specialized  entities  and  agencies  for 
their understanding and support of that idea, and we are 
continuing to implement the initiative. The Assembly’s 
adoption by consensus on 12 April of resolution 72/273, 
entitled “Cooperation between United Nations and the 
International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea”, established 
a sound legal foundation for it.
At  the  Summit  of  the  founding  members  of  the 
International  Fund  for  Saving  the  Aral  Sea,  held  on 
24  August  2018  in  Turkmenistan,  our  Heads  of  State 
voiced  their  support  for  the  importance  of  creating  a 
specialized  United  Nations  programme  for  the  Aral 
Sea basin and tasked the Fund’s Executive Committee 
with carrying out consultations on the subject with the 
States of the region, United Nations Member States, the 
United Nations itself and its various bodies. That is why 
Turkmenistan  intends  to  present  for  the  Assembly’s 
consideration  during  its  seventy-third  session  a  draft 
resolution  of  the  same  title  as  the  previous  resolution 
that includes provisions reflecting the outcomes of the 
Aral Sea Summit. It will specifically call for multilateral 
consultations  to  consider  the  already  drafted  concept 
for the special programme for the Aral Sea in detail. We 
call on Member States to support our proposal.
in 
improving 
A  model  for  international  cooperation  on  the 
Aral  Sea  issue  that  is  being  drafted  by  the  countries 
of Central Asia can be used for study and application 
in  other  regions  of  the  world  susceptible  to  the 
negative  consequences  of  similar  natural  disasters. 
We  believe  the  main  areas  for  the  special  United 
Nations  programme  for  the  Aral  Sea  basin  could 
be  the  following:  mobilizing  cooperation  between 
the  Fund  and  the  United  Nations  on  implementing 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  the  Aral  Sea 
region  with  regard  to  water-resource  management 
in  the  context  of  climate  change;  creating  a  global 
platform for multilateral cooperation in addressing the 
problem of internal watercourses based on the Fund’s 
experience 
the  water-conservation, 
environmental  and  socioeconomic  situation  in  the 
Aral  Sea  basin;  developing  and  implementing  long-
term  strategic  goals  for  water-resource  management 
and environmental protection in Central Asia with the 
participation  of  international  partners;  improving  the 
water-conservation, environmental and socioeconomic 
situation in the Aral Sea basin by implementing projects 
and  programmes  in  partnership  with  international 
organizations and financial institutions; and increasing 
awareness  of  the  problem  of  the  Aral  Sea  in  today’s 
environment. We firmly believe that the special United 
Nations  programme  for  the  Aral  Sea  basin  will  be 
an  effective  platform  for  multilateral  cooperation  to 
address  the  Aral  Sea  issue  and  a  basis  for  a  global 
initiative for countries on problems with inland bodies 
of water.
14/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
Mr.  Kickert  (Austria):  Austria  would  like  to 
warmly  thank  Lassina  Zerbo,  Executive  Secretary  of 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO), for the 
presentation of his report (A/73/111). We also welcome 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.22,  on  “Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission 
for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty”  and 
express our gratitude to Italy as its main sponsor.
between 
relationship 
We  note  with  satisfaction  the  close  and  ever-
expanding 
the  CTBTO 
Preparatory  Commission  and  the  United  Nations, 
dating back to the Assembly’s adoption of the Treaty. 
The Relationship Agreement, adopted in 2000, provides 
a  solid  foundation  for  active  cooperation  between 
the  two  organizations.  We  particularly  welcomed  the 
establishment in 2017 of the CTBTO’s New York Liaison 
Office, which will contribute to further strengthening 
this close partnership.
The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT)  has  established  a  universally  accepted  norm 
against nuclear testing, banning all nuclear explosions. 
The nuclear tests conducted by the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  have  demonstrated  the  CTBTO’s 
invaluable  role  in  quickly  providing  independent  and 
reliable  data  enabling  the  international  community 
to  respond  appropriately  and  swiftly.  Following  the 
positive  signals  from  the  recent  high-level  talks 
between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
and the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea and the United States, we urge the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to take concrete 
steps  towards  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible 
denuclearization, 
international 
obligations  and  sign  and  ratify  the  CTBT  without 
delay. The fact is that the accession of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  the  CTBT  must  be  a 
central element in any credible denuclearization process 
on  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  CTBTO  Preparatory 
Commission’s  unique  expertise,  as  established  in 
its  mandate,  in  verifying  the  dismantling  of  nuclear 
weapons and nuclear-weapon test sites and in ongoing 
remote monitoring, as well as the Treaty Organization’s 
own  independence,  predestines  it  to  engage  in  such  a 
denuclearization process.
comply  with 
its 
The CTBT is a key instrument of the global nuclear-
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  architecture.  The 
Treaty’s entry into force is enormously important. We 
will continue to use every opportunity to advocate for 
the ratification and universalization of the CTBT. We 
welcome Thailand’s ratification and Tuvalu’s signing of 
the Treaty and call on all States that have not yet done 
so, in particular the remaining annex 2 States mentioned 
by Mr. Zerbo, to sign and ratify it without further delay. 
We would also like to take this opportunity to express 
our appreciation to Belgium and Iraq for their efforts as 
article XIV co-Coordinators.
the  Executive  Secretary  of 
Mr. Fadhil (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I  would  like  to  express  my  country’s  appreciation 
to 
the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  Organization  for  the  report  on  its  activities  in 
2017  (A/73/111).  My  country’s  delegation  takes  note 
of that report, and would like to thank Italy, as Chair 
of  the  Preparatory  Commission,  for  its  efforts  to 
facilitate the submission of draft resolution A/73/L.22, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”.
The  Government  of  my  country  categorically 
believes  in  the  importance  of  binding  international 
instrument to address nuclear testing and be an integral 
part  of  the  international  non-proliferation  regime  and 
the  international  disarmament  system.  Based  on  that, 
my  Government  underscores  the  need  to  implement 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT) 
as  soon  as  possible  in  order  to  safeguard,  without 
exception,  our  common  future.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  welcomes  the  ratification  of  the  CTBT 
by  Thailand,  bringing  the  number  of  ratifications  to 
167.  We  also  welcome  the  signing  of  the  Treaty  by 
Tuvalu, bringing the number of signatories to 184. We 
underscore  our  support  to  the  two  countries  and  our 
readiness  to  work  with  them  in  order  to  achieve  the 
CTBT objectives.
My  delegation  also  stresses  the  importance  of 
the  work  carried  out  by  the  Preparatory  Commission 
as  it  seeks  to  finalize  the  verification  system.  We  as 
well emphasize the civilian and technical benefits that 
result  from  monitoring  technology.  We  commend  the 
Commission’s  role  in  encouraging  non-signatory  and 
non-ratifying countries to sign and ratify the Treaty as 
soon as possible in order to achieve the ultimate goal of 
its entry into force.
My country considers the CTBT to be an extremely 
important instrument that plays a fundamental role in 
the nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament system. 
18-39775
15/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
It  is  crucially  important  to  international  peace  and 
security.  The  increasing  importance  of  the  Treaty  is 
evident  through  the  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  its 
universalization,  but  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  make 
it  enter  into  force  through  the  ratification  of  eight 
countries listed in the Treaty’s annex 2.
As  a  facilitator  of  article  XIV  of  the  Treaty, 
alongside  the  Kingdom  of  Belgium,  we  worked  with 
the Treaty’s Provisional Technical Secretariat to carry 
out many activities, the most important of which is the 
issuance of a welcoming statement in June concerning 
the summit between the Presidents of the United States 
of  America  and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea. That statement included a call addressed to the 
latter to sign and ratify the Treaty as soon as possible 
so as to ensure its entry into force. My delegation looks 
forward  to  promoting  the  Treaty  in  Iraq  next  year  in 
coordination with the Executive Secretary of the CTBT 
and our friends in Belgium.
In  conclusion,  my  country’s  delegation  reiterates 
its support for the Provisional Technical Secretariat of 
the CTBT and underscores the importance of working 
together to ensure that the Treaty enters into force as 
soon as possible in order to establish a world free from 
nuclear testing that would contribute to the maintenance 
of international peace and security.
Mr.  Horne  (Australia):  I  take  the  floor  to  speak 
under  sub-item  (k)  of  agenda  item  128,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization”.  I  thank  the 
Executive Secretary for his opening remarks and for his 
visit last week to Australia, where we jointly hosted a 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization 
(CTBTO)  regional  workshop  in  my  hometown  of 
Melbourne for States in the South Pacific.
for 
It  was  also  wonderful  to  have  the  Executive 
Secretary  in  Australia  last  week  as  he  was  able  to 
help  us  celebrate  the  completion  and  certification  of 
our  twenty-first  and  final  monitoring  station.  As  the 
Executive Secretary noted, Australia is host to the third-
largest  number  of  monitoring  facilities  in  the  world 
and provides data from Alice Springs to Antarctica in 
contribution  to  the  International  Monitoring  System 
(IMS).  This  significant  achievement  is  the  product 
of more than 20 years of cooperation and partnership 
between Australia and the CTBTO.
Australia is a strong supporter of the Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and of its verification 
regime  in  particular  as  a  critical  element  of  the 
global  nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament 
architecture. It is particularly important that we further 
develop  the  civil  and  scientific  applications  of  those 
technologies,  building  on  the  tangible  contribution  to 
tsunami  warnings  for  countries  in  our  Indo-Pacific 
region. That makes a tangible contribution to millions 
of lives every day.
It is both reassuring and unfortunate that we know 
exactly how effective the IMS has become, as Australian 
stations were among those to detect North Korean tests 
in recent years. That serves as a clear reminder to us 
all  of  the  importance  of  the  CTBT  and  of  our  efforts 
to further build and strengthen its verification regime.
Australia  is  committed  to  complete,  verifiable 
and irreversible denuclearization by North Korea. We 
welcome  ongoing  dialogue  between  North  Korea  and 
each  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States. 
We note North Korea’s commitment to halting nuclear 
testing  and  to  allowing  international  inspections  of 
the  Punggye-ri  nuclear  test  site  and  the  Tongchang-ri 
missile site. We see those commitments as positive, but 
we remain committed to maintaining pressure on North 
Korea until it takes concrete steps towards complying 
with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  on  its 
nuclear  and  ballistic-missile  programmes.  We  call  on 
North Korea to sign and ratify the CTBT as part of its 
commitment to denuclearize.
Australia calls on all States yet to do so, particularly 
those  listed  in  annex  2  and  those  in  our  region,  to 
ratify the CTBT without delay. We welcome Thailand 
ratifying and Tuvalu signing the CTBT, both of which 
are  events  we  can  all  celebrate  as  tangible  progress 
towards  bringing  the  Treaty  into  force.  Australia 
maintains that the entry into force of the Treaty is of 
the utmost importance.
In  the  interim,  we  maintain  our  strong  support 
for  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  CTBTO  and 
welcome the successes of its recently concluded fifty-
first session and its ongoing cooperation with the United 
Nations.  We  thank  Italy,  as  Preparatory  Commission 
Chair  for  2018,  for  leading  the  work  on  the  draft 
resolution contained in document A/73/L.22. Australia 
is proud to remain a sponsor of the draft resolution, and 
we encourage others to join us in doing the same.
16/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
Ms.  Bassols  Delgado  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I am honoured to address the General Assembly with 
regard to two of the draft resolutions submitted under 
agenda  item  128,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the 
United Nations and regional and other organizations”.
I wish first to address draft resolution A/73/L.21, 
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Police  Organization 
(INTERPOL)”, which my country sponsored. I wish to 
thank the Permanent Missions of Brazil and Switzerland 
for their excellent work in facilitating the negotiations 
on the draft and to recognize the work carried out by the 
experts  who  participated  in  the  negotiations.  I  should 
also like to welcome the presence in the Hall today of 
INTERPOL Secretary General Jürgen Stock.
Two  years  ago,  Spain  welcomed  the  Assembly’s 
adoption  of  resolution  71/19,  which  for  the  first  time 
established  a  formal  framework  for  cooperation 
between the United Nations and INTERPOL. That first 
resolution set straight the anomalous situation whereby 
recognition  of  the  significant  cooperation  already  in 
place with INTERPOL was long overdue.
Spain  has  been  a  member  of  INTERPOL  since 
1956. Our relationship with INTERPOL has been and 
is excellent, both bilaterally and within the framework 
of the United Nations. We collaborated intensively with 
INTERPOL during our term on the Security Council in 
the 2015-2016 biennium. We recognize the importance 
of INTERPOL’s work in the joint fight against terrorism 
and transnational organized crime.
It  is  clear  that  those  forms  of  criminality,  which 
are interrelated and growing in complexity, recognize 
no  borders  and  take  the  form  of  networks,  cannot  be 
effectively halted without adequate cooperation among 
our police forces. For such cooperation to be effective, 
we need to equip ourselves with the appropriate tools 
and resources. There can be no doubt that INTERPOL, 
as the organization dedicated, almost universally, to the 
promotion  of  international  police  cooperation,  is  the 
key frame of reference in this area.
In fulfilling its mandate, INTERPOL has developed 
a wide range of enormously useful tools, including the 
I-24/7  secure  global  police  communication  system, 
databases,  notifications  and  alerts,  analytic  products, 
and  training  and  capacity-building  activities.  Those 
resources are in place, but they are not yet used to their 
full potential, which is one of the reasons that this draft 
resolution  is  so  important  in  our  view,  as  it  reminds 
us  of  the  possibilities  of  the  technical,  operational, 
analytical and other assistance that INTERPOL puts at 
our disposal.
For Spain, the fight against terrorism is a priority 
of  the  highest  order.  We  are  therefore  particularly 
pleased that the new draft resolution has been updated 
to include to the most pressing challenges posed by the 
current terrorist threats, in particular the phenomenon 
of foreign terrorist fighters, including those who return 
home  or  relocate.  We  therefore  reiterate  our  support 
for  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL, which we trust will continue to grow and 
contribute to a safer world for all.
I  should  now  like  to  turn  to  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.22,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”, 
which  my  country  is  also  honoured  to  sponsor.  We 
thank  Italy  for  introducing  the  draft  resolution,  and 
we welcome the presence here today of the Executive 
Secretary, Mr. Lassina Zerbo.
The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty, 
which  Spain  signed  in  1996  and  ratified  in  1998, 
constitutes a key element of the global non-proliferation 
system and a crucial step towards achieving the goal of 
nuclear  disarmament.  We  must  recall  the  urgent  need 
to ensure its entry into force, and we call once again on 
all those States not yet having done so to proceed to its 
signature and ratification. This call goes in particular 
to the remaining eight annex 2 States, without whose 
ratification of a Treaty that has the support of the vast 
majority of the international community — let us recall 
that  167  States  have  ratified  it  —  will  remain  as  is, 
without entering into force.
We  want  to  express  our  firm  support  for  the 
important  work  carried  out  by 
the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty Organization and its cooperation with the United 
Nations. I also wish to highlight the importance of the 
International Monitoring System, whose effectiveness 
in detecting tests has already been demonstrated.
Any nuclear test constitutes a threat to international 
peace and security and must therefore be condemned. 
We  request  that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea maintain the declared moratorium on the conduct 
of  nuclear  tests,  and  we  reiterate  our  call  that  it  sign 
and ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
without delay.
18-39775
17/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
to  pose 
important  challenges 
Ms.  Buner  (Turkey):  Terrorism  and  organized 
crime  continue 
to 
international  peace,  security  and  stability.  The 
interconnectivity  between  terrorist  cells  and  criminal 
organizations is of paramount significance. Our efforts 
to  suppress  them  should  therefore  also  have  a  strong 
international dimension.
Based  on  this  understanding,  Turkey  supports 
the  adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.21,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
the 
International  Criminal  Police  Organization 
(INTERPOL)”.  We  believe  that  the  draft  resolution 
will  provide  further  useful  input  for  the  international 
community in tackling those threats.
like 
to 
take 
We  would 
this  opportunity 
to 
emphasize our position regarding one particular issue. 
As a country that has been fighting against almost all 
types  of  terrorism  for  more  than  40  years,  we  firmly 
believe  that  it  is  high  time  to  reaffirm  that  security 
is  indivisible.  We  must  apply  the  universal  principle 
of  “either  prosecute  or  extradite”.  We  must  give  the 
same  message  to  terrorists:  there  is  no  safe  haven  or 
immunity from justice. No act of terrorism should go 
unpunished; otherwise, our joint efforts to mitigate and 
ultimately defeat this threat are bound to collapse.
Mr.  Al  Arsan  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation would like to express its position 
with respect to sub-item (d) of agenda item 128 and draft 
resolution  A/73/L.23,  entitled  “Cooperation  between 
the United Nations and the League of Arab States”.
As members of the Assembly are aware, my country, 
the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  was  one  of  the  founding 
members of the League of Arab States (LAS) in March 
1945, even before the founding of the United Nations. 
The  LAS  founding  members  decided  at  that  time  to 
entrust it with many tasks and responsibilities, on top 
of  which  is  maintaining  the  independence  of  member 
States and achieving cooperation among Arab countries 
at the economic, cultural, social and health levels, as well 
as  preserving  the  independence  and  interests  of  Arab 
States while liberating non-independent Arab countries 
and  cooperating  with  international  organizations  to 
maintain international peace and security.
Notwithstanding the significant developments and 
great challenges that have occurred in the world — and in 
the Middle East in particular, including the occupation 
of Palestine, the displacement of millions of its people 
and the occupation of Syrian Arab Golan — the LAS 
has  struggled  for  decades  to  preserve  its  role,  status 
and  credibility  as  a  regional  organization  that  brings 
together the Governments of Arab States and defends 
the rights and interests of their peoples, who share the 
same  blood,  language  and  destiny.  The  League  has 
continued to be a reflection of the historical Arab role, 
civilization and interactivity within the framework of 
international relations.
However, the past decade has shown the League’s 
real and serious setback as a result of a limited number 
of Governments of League member States — that have 
enormous economic revenues from oil and gas — which 
decided to submit to foreign pressures and schemes that 
run counter to Arab national interests and threaten the 
concept of collective Arab national security. To that end, 
those Governments also decided to control the League 
work  mechanisms  in  order  to  resolve  their  political 
differences with League States and non-League States 
by harnessing those mechanisms to serve their political 
interests and agendas.
The Syrian Arab Republic is a country of principle. 
We do not level false or unfair accusations. We take our 
responsibilities  very  seriously,  and  when  we  express 
our position, we provide evidence, facts and legal basis. 
Therefore,  when  we  assert  that  the  decision  taken  by 
the  LAS  Council  of  Ministers  of  Foreign  Affairs  at 
their meeting on 12 November 2011 to suspend Syria’s 
membership in the League was illegitimate, we base our 
argument on the LAS Charter, which clearly states that 
a Member State may be suspended only by a unanimous 
decision  of  all  Member  States  at  a  summit  meeting. 
Based  on  that  legal  basis,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic 
continues  to  reject  the  League’s  politicized  decision. 
We do not recognize any of its legal or political effects. 
However,  we  reiterate  that  it  is  the  responsibility  of 
those  who  breached  the  LAS  Charter  in  taking  that 
decision to reverse it.
A  second  breach  by  the  League  of  Arab  States, 
which many in this Hall may not be familiar with, also 
took place in November 2011, when the LAS unilaterally 
imposed  coercive  economic  measures  against  the 
Syrian people, in violation of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions. 
Those  measures  amounted  to  an  economic  blockade 
in many sectors, in particular finance, trade, banking, 
investment,  transport,  aviation  and  media.  They  are 
punitive measures against Syrian citizens who chose to 
stand by their country and their Government in the face 
of  extremist  Wahhabi  religious  terrorism,  regrettably 
18/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
supported  and  financed  by  certain  Governments  of 
LAS member States.
Based  on  that  legal  basis,  we  in  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic continue to reject and condemn the decision 
that  the  LAS  was  forced  to  take  that  imposed  an 
economic  blockade  against  Syrians.  We  hold  those 
who  took  that  decision  legally  responsible  along  with 
its economic, humanitarian and financial consequences 
on  the  Syrian  people,  who  have  been  suffering  until 
now. At the same time, the Syrian Arab Republic will 
always remember and highly appreciate the significant 
number of members of the LAS that rejected the unjust 
economic blockade imposed on the Syrian people.
Thirdly, in December 2011 — many here in this Hall 
do  know  about  this  fact —  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic 
responded favourably to the Arab League initiative to 
send a team of Arab observers to various parts of Syria, 
despite  the  fact  that  the  Syrian  Government  knew 
the  premeditated  ill  intentions  of  the  Governments  of 
certain LAS member States. However, some in this Hall 
today may not know that, in early 2012, the LAS Chair 
and secretariat ignored and buried the report of the head 
of the team of Arab observers because it had concluded 
that foreign Powers were seeking to negatively interfere 
in the situation in Syria.
We  can  provide  a  long  list  of  facts  related  to 
decisions and attitudes that were imposed on the LAS 
over  the  past  eight  years  concerning  the  situation  in 
Syria. Those decisions and attitudes were imbalanced 
and  reflected  the  influence  of  one  or  two  countries 
over  the  decision-making  mechanism  of  that  regional 
organization.  At 
time,  we  confidently 
underscore  from  this  rostrum  that  the  vast  majority 
of  LAS  member  States  continue  to  disapprove  of  the 
decisions adopted against Syria, as they run counter to 
the majority of those Member States.
the  same 
Fourthly,  the  Syrian  people  will  never  forget  or 
forgive  Governments  of  a  limited  number  of  LAS 
member  States  for  having  ominously  interfered  in 
the  internal  affairs  of  Syria  and  for  having  directly 
implicated  themselves  in  support  of  armed  terrorist 
groups  in  Syria.  They  recruited  and  financed  tens  of 
thousands of foreign terrorist fighters and sent them to 
fight  in  the  ranks  of  Da’esh,  Al-Qaida,  the  Al-Nusra 
Front  and  other  armed  terrorist  groups,  which  the 
Governments  in  question  have  falsely  described  as 
moderate  opposition.  The  truth  is  that  those  terrorist 
groups  subscribe  to  the  same  extremist  religious-
terrorist ideology that advocates the killing of others, 
the  expropriation  of  victims’  funds  and  property,  the 
demolition of their homes and the burning of their lands 
and sources of livelihood.
In 
that  context,  my  delegation  expresses 
its 
categorical  reservation  with  regard  to  paragraph  67 
of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  contained  in 
document A/73/328, on the existence of communication 
and  coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
LAS regarding the situation in Syria. My country does 
not  see  a  role  for  the  LAS  in  relation  to  the  situation 
in  Syria  as  long  as  its  role  continues  to  be  hijacked 
and subjected to the policies and practices of a limited 
number  of  financially  and  economically  powerful 
Governments.  Those  are  Governments  of  Member 
States of that regional organization, and their policies 
and  practices  remain  ongoing  and  are,  as  we  have 
said,  premised  regrettably  on  political  and  military 
investments  in  extremist  religious  terrorism  with  a 
view to obstruct the prospects for a political solution to 
the situation in Syria. They are further premised on the 
intention to seriously and destructively interfere in the 
internal affairs of Syria.
My country has had to bear unprecedented suffering 
in the history of humankind and in terms of inter-State 
relations owing to global terrorism, with Syrians having 
to pay a high price not only in terms of blood but also 
in  terms  of  lost  economic,  industrial  and  agricultural 
gains  after  working  hard  for  long  decades  in  order 
to  realize  them.  Nevertheless,  we  in  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic continue to believe that the LAS can restore 
its role and credibility if it now undertakes a serious and 
comprehensive review of its work over the past decade. 
That  would  enable  that  regional  organization  to  once 
again play its role and shoulder its responsibilities as an 
organization that truly serves collective Arab interests 
and  national  security.  In  that  context,  we  continue  to 
hope that the Arab League will deal with the situation 
in  Syria  in  a  constructive  and  positive  manner,  while 
directly cooperating and coordinating with the Syrian 
Government in support of its efforts aimed at defeating 
terrorism, ensuring the return of refugees and displaced 
persons, reconstruction and ending foreign occupation 
of its territories.
In conclusion, my country’s position is not against 
the LAS, being one of its founding members. Syria’s Arab 
identity  and  affiliation  have  always  been  a  principled 
position  expressed  by  actions  and  policies,  based  on 
our  keen  commitment  to  a  regional  organization  that 
18-39775
19/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
we hope will bring Arab States together, protect their 
interests,  reject  interference  in  their  internal  affairs 
and promote the socioeconomic development of all its 
members without discrimination or exception so that no 
one is left behind.
For all of those reasons, the Syrian Arab Republic 
calls for a recorded vote on draft resolution A/73/L.23.
Mr.  Hattrem  (Norway):  Norway  is  a  consistent 
partner  in  the  global  multilateral  system.  Norway 
strongly believes that a rules-based international order 
is in the interests of all States Members of the United 
Nations.  Both  the  institutions  and  the  norms  that 
underpin this foundation are now under pressure. Only 
international  cooperation  can  bring  about  sustainable 
development,  mitigate  and  reduce  climate  change 
and  end  violent  conflict.  The  United  Nations  system, 
together  with  regional  and  subregional  organizations, 
is  the  core  of  the  multilateral  order.  All  countries 
depend  up  on  the  international  system  to  address  the 
many global challenges we face.
We  are  now  in  the  process  of  implementing 
important  United  Nations  reforms.  At  the  same  time, 
countries are joining forces to make regional and other 
organizations  better  prepared  to  address  common 
challenges.  The  consolidated  report  submitted  as 
background for today’s discussion (A/73/328) reminds 
us  about  the  important  work  of  26  intergovernmental 
organizations  and  their  numerous  partnerships  with 
the  United  Nations.  Through  our  membership  in  or 
partnership  with  many  of  the  organizations  covered 
by  the  present  agenda  item,  we  have  first-hand 
knowledge  about  numerous  cooperation  initiatives  of 
the United Nations.
We  are  particularly  encouraged  to  see  how  the 
relations between the United Nations and the African 
Union (AU) are maturing and growing stronger. Within 
less  than  two  years,  the  two  institutions  have  signed 
and  started  two  important  framework  agreements, 
on  peace  and  security  and  for  the  implementation 
of  the  sustainable  development  agenda  for  Africa. 
Partnerships  with  regional  organizations  are  quite 
rightly given priority in the Secretary-General’s Action 
for Peacekeeping initiative.
We  cannot  say  it  too  often:  there  can  be  no 
development  without  security,  and  vice  versa.  In 
January this year, we therefore applauded the signing 
by  United  Nations  and  African  Union  leaders  of  the 
Framework  for  Implementation  of  Agenda  2063  and 
2030  Agenda.  We  are  convinced  that  this  framework 
will  add  important  energy  to  both  Agendas,  reduce 
duplication, accelerate domestic-resource mobilization 
and attract support from development partners.
We  share  the  enthusiasm  among  United  Nations 
and AU member States, and Norway has launched an 
initiative in Addis Ababa to establish a group of friends 
of the United Nations-AU partnership. The aim of the 
initiative is to support and strengthen additional joint 
AU-United Nations efforts for sustainable development, 
conflict  prevention,  preventive  diplomacy 
and 
mediation,  including  enhanced  cooperation  between 
the  AU  Peace  and  Security  Council  and  the  United 
Nations Security Council.
Another  area  of  important  progress  among  many 
is  the  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  to  deepen 
its  already  comprehensive  partnership  with 
the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN). 
Cooperation between the United Nations and ASEAN 
remains essential to achieving sustainable development 
and maintaining peace and security in the region.
Norway  is  taking  a  leading  global  on  oceans  and 
sustainable use of ocean resources. This issue is also 
a priority for Norway’s Sectoral Dialogue Partnership 
with ASEAN. Norway looks forward to strengthening 
its  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  and  ASEAN 
in  this  field,  including  combating  marine  litter  and 
microplastics in the ASEAN region.
Norway  fully  supports  United  Nations  efforts 
to  strengthen  existing  arrangements  and  seek  new 
opportunities  for  cooperation  with  regional  and 
other organizations.
Ms.  Kaba  (Guinea)  (spoke 
in  French):  My 
statement will address sub-item (a) of agenda item 128, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the African Union”. 
The  past  decade  has  been  particularly  busy 
with  the  tireless  efforts  of  African  countries  at  the 
national, subregional and continental levels to address 
the  challenges  inherent  to  implementing  the  United 
Nations  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  the  African  Union  2063  Development  Agenda  in 
a context of peace and stability. Sustained efforts are 
being  devoted,  under  the  2063  Agenda  and  its  first 
Ten-Year  Implementation  Plan,  to  generate  structural 
collective 
socioeconomic 
transformation, 
build 
20/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
wealth  and  prosperity,  and  expeditiously  promote 
sustainable development.
Strategic  partnership  with  the  African  Union 
is  crucial  in  all  areas,  especially  peace  and  security, 
in  the  light  of  the  persistent  nature  of  conflicts,  the 
proliferation  of  terrorist  activities  and  other  forms 
of  organized  crime.  Therefore,  to  eradicate  them  by 
tackling  their  root  causes,  the  United  Nations  must, 
under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  further  develop 
strategic  cooperation  with  the  African  Union.  Such 
cooperation  has  provided  for  significant  progress 
towards  lasting  solutions  to  recurrent  and  emerging 
conflicts in some parts of the continent. That support 
has produced tangible results in defusing tense relations 
in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  In  that  regard,  the  Guinean 
delegation  welcomes  the  signing  of  the  Joint  United 
Nations-African  Union  Framework  for  an  Enhanced 
Partnership  in  Peace  and  Security,  in  April  2017,  by 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Chairperson of the African Union Commission.
Based  on  the  principle  of  African  ownership 
of  African  problems,  it  is  reassuring  to  note  the 
implementation of the African Union Peace Fund at the 
Extraordinary  Summit  of  the  African  Union,  held  in 
Addis Ababa on 18 November. The significant progress 
made by the United Nations-African Union Joint Task 
Force on Peace and Security, which was established at 
the  second  annual  conference  of  the  United  Nations 
and the African Union, held in Addis Ababa on 9 July, 
gives cause for optimism on the future of cooperation 
between Africa and this universal Organization.
We  commend 
the  commitment  of  Secretary-
General António Guterres and his many initiatives in 
support of Africa, particularly with regard to conflict 
prevention, the Action for Peacekeeping initiative and 
the  Declaration  of  Shared  Commitments  on  United 
Nations Peacekeeping Operations, as well as the various 
high-level meetings on relevant topics. However, given 
the scale and complexity of the challenges we face, it is 
essential that United Nations action continue along the 
following lines.
First,  we  must  provide  United  Nations  assistance 
to  the  African  Union  in  the  mobilization  of  essential 
resources for the implementation of Agenda 2063 of the 
African Union and its first 10-year implementation plan.
Secondly,  we  should  support  the  African  Union 
road  map  for  the  promotion  of  peace,  security  and 
stability in Africa, with the aim of silencing the guns 
by 2020. This goal entails not only conflict prevention, 
peacebuilding and post-conflict development, but also 
good governance, the rule of law and democracy.
in 
Thirdly,  we  must  improve  the  cooperation  and 
coordination  of  activities 
the  deployment  of 
peacekeeping operations through adequate, predictable, 
flexible and sustainable funding for human resources, 
materials  and  equipment  and  capacity-building.  In 
that  context,  my  delegation  welcomes  and  supports 
the  United  Nations  Integrated  Strategy  for  the  Sahel, 
embodied  in  the  United  Nations  Support  Plan  for  the 
Sahel,  which  requires  further  resources  and  better 
coordination  of  the  activities  of  various  partners  on 
the ground.
Fourthly,  we  must  ensure  the  empowerment  of 
women and the promotion of young people embarking 
along the path of exile in search of greater well-being.
Fifthly,  we  must  manage  the  impact  of  climate 
change, natural disasters and new technologies.
Sixthly, we must tackle migration issues.
In  conclusion,  the  urgent  need  to  enunciate  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Agenda 
2063 of the African Union, and to take into account the 
recommendations of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
of  the  third  International  Conference  on  Financing 
for  Development  and  to  mobilize  the  international 
community  for  the  development  of  Africa,  remains 
dependent  on  the  goals  set  by  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, namely, the building of just, equitable, 
integrated and peaceful societies.
Mr.  Negash  (Ethiopia):  At  the  outset,  Ethiopia 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations 
(A/73/328),  which  clearly  demonstrates  the  efforts 
being made to strengthen the partnership between the 
United  Nations  and  those  organizations.  I  would  like 
to  make  the  following  observations  on  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union 
(AU).
Given the unprecedented scale and complexity of 
global dynamics, it is evident that the United Nations 
cannot  handle  new  and  emerging  global  challenges 
alone.  Forging  effective  partnerships  with  regional 
and  subregional  organizations  is  not  an  option,  but 
rather an absolute necessity for the Organization, as it 
remains  essential  to  maintaining  international  peace 
18-39775
21/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
and  security,  upholding  human  rights  and  achieving 
sustainable  development.  The  role  of  the  United 
Nations  system  focusing  mostly  on  support  for  peace 
and  security,  good  governance  and  social  justice, 
human rights protection and humanitarian action, and 
initiatives and actions to contribute to addressing the 
root causes of conflict in Africa is commendable.
In  that  regard,  Ethiopia  appreciates  the  readiness 
and  commitment  of  the  Secretary-General  to  further 
deepening  the  strategic  partnership  with  the  African 
Union  and  regional  economic  communities  and 
mechanisms, as reflected by collaboration on numerous 
fronts,  including  through  more  regular  exchanges  of 
information,  consultations  and  coordinated  action. 
There  is  a  renewed  commitment  in  the  leadership  of 
both  organizations  to  elevating  the  United  Nations-
AU  cooperation  and  partnership  to  new  heights.  The 
Joint  United  Nations-African  Union  Framework  for 
an  Enhanced  Partnership  in  Peace  and  Security, 
signed  by  the  leadership  of  the  two  organizations 
on  19  April  2017,  is  indeed  a  clear  testament  to  this 
renewed  commitment  to  working  together,  inter  alia, 
in  addressing  the  common  challenges  of  peace  and 
security  on  the  African  continent,  across  the  whole 
spectrum of the conflict cycle.
However,  we  recognize  that  there  is  room  for 
more  progress,  in  particular  with  regard  to  better 
coordinating  the  decisions  of  both  organizations  at 
various levels and in many areas of mutual interest, so 
as to continue to work towards greater unity of purpose. 
This  is  particularly  pertinent  in  the  context  of  the 
discussions on the sustainability of funding to African 
Union peace support operations. Of course, we can all 
recall  the  concrete  recommendations  with  respect  to 
the strategic partnership with the African Union made 
by the United Nations High-level Independent Panel on 
Peace  Operations  in  its  report  (see  S/2015/446).  The 
report did not, in that regard, put the spotlight on the 
African Union without reason. Nowhere is it explained 
more clearly than in the report of the Secretary-General 
on  options  for  authorization  and  support  for  African 
Union peace support operations, which states,
“Considering the limitations of the United Nations 
peacekeeping  doctrine  with  regard 
to  peace 
enforcement  and  counter-terrorism,  the  African 
Union peace support operations are a tool for the 
United Nations to better discharge its responsibility 
for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security  in  certain  situations.”  (S/2017/454,  para. 
61)
African Union member States have also taken important 
steps towards greater self-reliance and burden-sharing 
since 2015, including through the commitment that its 
member  States  will  finance  25  per  cent  of  its  peace 
support operations, as well as the decision to finance 
the African Union Peace Fund.
The role of the United Nations Office to the African 
Union  is  crucial  in  strengthening  the  partnership 
between the United Nations and the African Union, as 
the  demands  on  the  partnership  have  grown  over  the 
past few years. Strengthening its capacity would help 
to ensure an enhanced ability for effective partnership 
with  the  African  Union  and  the  regional  economic 
communities to address the continent’s challenges.
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to express its 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  and  all  United 
Nations  entities  for 
their  continued  cooperation 
in  working  with  the  African  Union  to  advance  the 
continent’s goals and objectives.
Mr.  Mohd  Nasir  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Lassina Zerbo, Executive Secretary of 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization  (CTBTO),  for 
his briefing and comprehensive report on the extensive 
work  of  the  organization.  We  also  wish  to  thank  the 
delegation  of  Italy  for  introducing  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.22  under  sub-item  (k)  of  agenda  item  128, 
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”.
Consistent with our traditional position, Malaysia 
has  co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution  and  reaffirms 
its  commitment  to  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty (CTBT), while welcoming the cooperation 
established  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization.  Malaysia 
welcomes the progress made to facilitate the entry into 
force of the Treaty, including maintaining all existing 
moratoriums  on  nuclear-weapon-test 
explosions. 
Nonetheless,  those  measures  do  not  have  the  same 
permanent  and  legally  binding  effect  to  end nuclear-
weapon testing and all other nuclear explosions.
for 
22/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
While  the  Treaty’s  total  number  of  ratifications 
currently  stands  at  167  and  the  total  number  of 
signatures  stands  at  184,  we  hope  that  more  progress 
will  be  made  towards  the  universalization  of  the 
Treaty. Malaysia strongly believes in the need for the 
early entry into force of the CTBT, with the ultimate 
goal of eliminating nuclear weapons as well as general 
and  complete  disarmament  under  strict  and  effective 
international control.
Malaysia  will  continue  to  pledge  its  full  support 
and cooperation to the CTBTO towards the completion 
of all of its tasks in the most efficient and effective way, 
which is in line with Malaysia’s long-standing position 
of achieving general and complete nuclear disarmament, 
including through the verifiable end of nuclear testing. 
Malaysia  recognizes  the  benefits  of  the  civil  and 
scientific applications of the verification technologies 
in  areas  such  as  the  environment,  Earth  science  and 
technology,  tsunami-warning  systems,  the  detection 
of  the  accidental  release  of  radioactive  particles 
and  gases  and  other  disaster-alert  systems.  We  will 
continue to explore possible ways to work closely with 
the  Preparatory  Commission  in  promoting  awareness 
on  the  Treaty  so  that  the  benefits  resulting  from  the 
verification technologies may be broadly shared among 
the members of the international community.
Finally, Malaysia wishes to reaffirm its readiness 
to  work  closely  with  Member  States,  the  CTBTO 
and  all  stakeholders  in  exploring  concrete  steps 
and  activities  to  achieve  the  entry  into  force  and 
universalization of the Treaty. We firmly believe that 
all efforts should be undertaken to further strengthen 
the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Preparatory Commission for the CTBTO, with a view 
to strengthening international peace and security.
Mr. Kaganda (United Republic of Tanzania): My 
delegation  welcomes  the  report  on  the  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  Organization  (CTBTO)  (A/73/328).  We  pay 
tribute  to  the  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  under 
the able leadership of His Excellency Mr. Lassina Zerbo, 
Executive  Secretary  of  the  Preparatory  Commission 
for the CTBTO.
The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania 
reaffirms  that  it  attaches  the  utmost  importance  to 
the  application  of  the  principles  and  objectives  of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT) 
across  the  globe.  We  appreciate  the  support  extended 
to  Tanzania  by  the  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat
through  a  number  of  projects,  programmes  and 
training opportunities.
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  learn  that  sufficient 
efforts have been made that the Treaty now enjoys the 
signatures of 184 States and the ratification of a large 
number of countries. We welcome the latest ratification, 
by Thailand, and encourage States not yet party to the 
Treaty to ratify it as soon as practicable. We particularly 
urge the eight remaining annex 2 States to adhere to the 
international  community’s  call  by  signing  the  Treaty, 
which is necessary for it to become operational.
Furthermore,  my 
delegation 
the 
continues 
importance  of  strengthening 
to 
recognize 
the 
verification  regime  through  technical  support.  We 
greatly  appreciate  United  Nations  efforts  to  mobilize 
international support for the effective strengthening of 
the Provisional Technical Secretariat. Moving forward, 
the continued and meaningful engagement and support 
of  all  stakeholders  remains  crucial  to  achieve  the 
universality of the Treaty. We call on the Secretariat to 
continue to provide the necessary support, particularly 
to developing countries, in areas such as climate change 
mitigation  and  the  strengthening  of  early-warning 
systems.  We  are  of  the  view  that  supporting  Member 
States in terms of capacity-building and the technical 
support  of  the  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  is  of 
the utmost importance.
We  conclude  by  reaffirming  our  commitment  to 
the fulfilment of the obligations under the Treaty. We 
encourage  the  international  community  to  remain  an 
active participant in the work of the Treaty, both at the 
regional and international level.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Holy See.
Father  Charters  (Holy  See):  The  Holy  See 
delegation  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty Organization (CTBTO) on the current status of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT) 
and  the  prospects  for  the  future  (A/73/328).  Having 
ratified  the  CTBT,  the  Holy  See  strongly  urges  all 
non-ratifying  States,  in  particular  those  necessary 
for  bringing  the  CTBT  into  force,  to  do  so  promptly. 
The  present  capabilities  of  the  Provisional  Technical 
Secretariat have been of great value in monitoring the 
nuclear  tests  that  have  taken  place  since  the  Treaty’s 
18-39775
23/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
International Monitoring System (IMS) was established 
and since the IMS, the International Data Centre and 
the  capabilities  for  on-site  inspection  that  have  been 
put in place are potentially available for dealing with 
present issues.
The  Acting  President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 477 (V), of 1 November 1950, I now give the 
floor to the observer of the League of Arab States.
Mr. Abdelaziz (League of Arab States) (spoke in 
Arabic): Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional arrangements and organizations is of growing 
importance given the enhanced pioneering role played 
by multilateral diplomacy in consolidating the purposes 
and principles of the United Nations at the international 
and regional levels and in strengthening the means of 
achieving those shared goals and purposes within the 
framework of respect for international law, international 
humanitarian law and international human rights law. 
It is on that basis that the scope of cooperation between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States 
(LAS) has widened. The Arab League was one of the 
first  regional  organizations  to  be  invited  to  attend 
the  meetings  of  the  General  Assembly,  pursuant  to 
resolution 477 (V) of 1950. Since then, we have made 
many contributions to developing the concept of shared 
international efforts and to integrating the perspectives 
of the Arab world in the agenda of the United Nations in 
the three fundamental areas: maintaining international 
peace  and  security,  socioeconomic  and  political 
development and democracy and human rights.
In that context, the LAS wishes to thank Secretary-
General  António  Guterres  for  his  valuable  report  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
and  other  organizations  (A/73/328).  In  his  report, 
the  Secretary-General  sets  forth  a  comprehensive 
review  of  the  progress  made  in  terms  of  cooperation 
since  that  item  was  introduced  within  the  General 
Assembly agenda at its seventy-first session. We also 
pay  tribute  to  the  increased  institutional  cooperation 
with  the  various  departments  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  after  signing  the  additional  protocol  on 
the  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  on 
24 September 2016, covering new areas of cooperation 
to  the  cooperation  agreement  signed  by  the  two 
organizations on 6 October 1989. Those new areas of 
cooperation included developing cooperative activities 
such as meetings consultations, training programmes, 
exchange  of  information  and  documents  enhanced 
to  strengthening 
the 
their 
Based  on 
mutual representation and the exchange of personnel, 
in line with the mandate of each organization.
the  ongoing  cooperation, 
two 
organizations  agreed 
joint 
action  in  several  areas,  including  capacity-building, 
the protection of civilians, counter-terrorism, the fight 
against  all  types  of  drug  trafficking  and  illicit  trade, 
transnational  organized  crime,  disarmament,  human 
rights issues, sustainable socioeconomic development, 
humanitarian issues and issues related to refugees and 
internally displaced persons.
To that end, the two organizations agreed to establish 
a  United  Nations  liaison  office  in  Cairo,  in  order  to 
strengthen  the  cooperation  between  one  another.  The 
Government  of  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt  approved 
the opening of the United Nations office in Cairo, and 
it is time for a new phase of joint action for achieving 
their  common  goals,  in  line  with  the  memorandum 
of  understanding  to  be  negotiated  and  signed  by  the 
relevant parties to establish the framework and mandate 
of the new office, in accordance with draft resolution 
A/73/L.23.
The  LAS  envisages  a  new  phase  of  joint  Arab 
action  with  the  United  Nations  system  whereby  their 
enhanced  cooperation  will  contribute  to  achieving 
peace and security across the entire Arab region, with 
Arab  countries  contributing  to  international  peace 
and  security.  That  would  include  reaching  a  just  and 
comprehensive  solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict, 
with  the  creation  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State 
along the 1967 borders and with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as 
its  capital,  as  well  as  ensuring  the  Israeli  withdrawal 
from  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  and  the  Lebanese 
Shaba’a  farm  lands.  Furthermore,  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  must  be  fully  implemented  and  the  lost 
peace  in  Syria,  Libya,  Iraq  and  Yemen  must  be 
re-established while effectively addressing the Iranian 
threat  to  the  region  and  establishing  a  Middle  East 
region  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  Terrorist  groups  and  organizations 
that threaten security and stability in the region must 
be  eradicated,  including  stopping  their  funding  and 
preventing the deployment of foreign fighters, as well 
as preventing the return of Da’esh to Iraq or spreading 
to other areas in the region and many more. That would 
require  building  on  the  outstanding  outcomes  of  the 
high-level meetings held between the two secretariats, 
the last of which was held in Geneva in July.
24/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
On  sustainable  development,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  of  the  LAS  plays  a  leading  role  in 
strengthening  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and supporting the relevant efforts 
of Arab States, which recently submitted to the High-
level  Political  Forum  their  annual  voluntary  national 
reviews. During Arab Sustainable Development Week, 
held at the headquarters of the LAS in Cairo between 
19 and 22 November, we discussed the best means to 
implement those objectives and announced, inter alia, 
several recommendations to be submitted to the fourth 
Arab Economic and Social Development Summit, to be 
held in Beirut on 20 and 21 January 2019, with a view 
to harmonizing the activities of the United Nations and 
the LAS in this domain.
On  democracy  and  good  governance,  we  have 
continued  our  efforts  aimed  at  supporting  pioneering 
reform  steps  taken  by  the  countries  of  the  region, 
in  line  with  the  Arab  Charter  on  Human  Rights  and 
other Arab instruments and resolutions adopted by the 
Arab  League  in  ministerial  meetings  and  summits. 
Particular  attention  has  been  given  to  women  and 
young  people  as  fundamental  pillars  of  society,  with 
the participation of civil society and the private sector. 
In addition, the Arab League supported the efforts of 
its  member  States  aimed  at  strengthening  health  and 
education services as well as vocational training. The 
League has also participated in overseeing presidential 
and  parliamentary  elections  in  several  Arab  States. 
In  addition,  we  have  participated  in  training  and 
capacity-building  programmes  organized  by 
the 
United  Nations  for  Member  States  and  in  supporting 
activities  undertaken  by  Arab  States  to  apply  the 
concept of good governance, while taking into account 
the cultural specificities of the countries of the region. 
Furthermore, we strengthened our cooperation with the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights and participated in the periodic reviews 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  on  the  human  rights 
situation in the Arab countries, while following up on 
the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  issued 
after the reviews.
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
LAS is not limited to the ongoing relations, but rather 
extends  to  other  regional  and  political  organizations, 
including  the  LAS,  through  sharing  of  information 
and  experience.  In  that  regard,  the  LAS  pays  tribute 
to  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General  for  his 
initiative  to  submit  ambitious  United  Nations  reform 
plans,  especially  as  they  touch  upon  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security  and  restructuring 
the  development  pillar,  as  well  as  financial  and 
administrative reform. Those reforms were thoroughly 
discussed  at  the  conference  of  heads  of  regional 
organizations held in June. The conference issued joint 
recommendations  that  would  strengthen  cooperation 
between  our  regional  organizations  and  the  United 
Nations,  while  giving  additional 
the 
ambitious plans that the LAS is intending to implement 
in various areas of reform.
impetus 
to 
In  the  same  vein,  the  League  is  keen  to  expand 
cooperation  with  all  the  continents  and  plans  to  hold 
with  the  African  Union  an  Arab-African  summit  in 
the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  in  2019,  and  with  the 
European Union an Arab-European summit in the Arab 
Republic of Egypt in 2019. We are also planning to hold 
a summit with Latin America as part of our initiatives 
to  open  the  Arab  region  to  the  rest  of  the  world  and 
strengthen our multilateral approach.
The  LAS  hopes  that  the  General  Assembly  will 
adopt  draft  resolution  A/73/L.23,  introduced  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Qatar at the beginning of 
this meeting on behalf of the Group of Arab States. It 
also hopes to begin serious work on strengthening the 
cooperation between our two organizations, as set forth 
in the draft resolution. We are confident that we will 
receive the support of the States Members of the United 
Nations. All member States of the LAS have endorsed 
the draft resolution.
for 
the 
As 
reservations  expressed  by 
the 
representative of the Syrian Arab Republic on the draft 
resolution, they will not affect the resolve of the LAS 
member States. Syria is an Arab sisterly country whose 
membership in the League was suspended in 2011 by a 
unanimous decision taken by the League’s Council in 
accordance with the legal procedures due to the serious 
violations that, regrettably, were committed and are still 
being committed by the Syrian Government against the 
brotherly  Syrian  people.  Those  violations  contravene 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  international  law, 
international  humanitarian 
international 
human  rights  law.  They  have  been  documented  in 
various  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council.  The  League  did  not  impose  any 
economic or financial embargo on the Syrian brotherly 
people.  On  the  contrary,  the  League  has  supported 
and  financed  our  Syrian  refugee  brothers  who  have 
law  and 
18-39775
25/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
fled  to  neighbouring  Arab  countries  as  a  result  of 
those violations.
in  respect  of  human  rights,  which  is  enshrined  in 
our Constitution.
Despite  Syria’s  aggressive  position  towards  the 
LAS  and  its  States,  we  will  continue  to  support  the 
efforts of the United Nations Special Envoy for Syria 
and  all  other  international  efforts.  We  will  spare  no 
effort  aimed  at  regaining  the  currently  lost  peace 
in  Syria,  until  the  country  regains  its  status  as  an 
active member of the LAS following a decision to be 
taken  by  LAS  Council  in  due  time.  In  that  context,  I 
call on all countries present to vote in favour of draft 
resolution  A/73/L.23,  submitted  by  all  Arab  States 
without exception.
The Acting President: In accordance with General 
Assembly  resolution  51/1,  of  15  October  1996,  I  now 
call  on  the  Secretary  General  of  the  International 
Criminal Police Organization.
Mr.  Stock 
(International  Criminal  Police 
Organization):  Two  years  ago,  I  had  the  privilege  of 
standing in this Hall to address the General Assembly 
on  the  occasion  of  the  debate  on  and  adoption  of 
resolution 71/19, the first-ever resolution on cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) (see A/71/
PV.48).  Following  the  facilitators’  hard  work  and  the 
Assembly’s valuable contributions, I am delighted today 
to be bestowed again with the honour of addressing the 
Assembly, this time to submit the first biennial review 
of resolution 71/19, contained in document A/73/L.21.
Since  the  resolution’s  first  adoption,  in  2016,  the 
transnational  threat  landscape  has  evolved  to  pose 
new  and  increasingly  complex  challenges,  driven  in 
large  part  by  unprecedented  technological  advances 
and  instability  worldwide.  However,  what  remains 
a  constant  variable  over  time  is  the  determination  of 
international criminal groups to seek to exploit national 
boundaries so as to evade the rule of law. Embracing 
and 
law-enforcement 
cooperation  is  the  only  way  for  the  international 
community to stay ahead of the curve.
strengthening 
international 
The trust of our nations is just as important as the 
success of such cooperation, as is trust in INTERPOL 
and  its  ability  to  ensure  appropriate  management  of 
police data. Based strictly on its neutral mandate and 
ensuring  full  respect  for  the  national  sovereignty  of 
its  member  countries,  INTERPOL  practices  strict 
adherence to its rules on the processing of data and due 
diligence  —  from  its  General  Secretariat  in  Lyon  to 
its remote offices to each of the INTERPOL National 
Central  Bureaux  embedded  in  the  criminal  justice 
structures of the Member States.
That independent and robust cooperation framework 
underpins the round-the-clock support that INTERPOL 
provides  to  policing  and  law  enforcement,  as  well  as 
the  implementation  of  its  three  global  programmes, 
focusing  on  countering  terrorism,  organized  and 
emerging crimes and cybercrime. Through them, on a 
daily basis, national law-enforcement agencies receive 
tangible operational support at the front lines.
The  relationship  between  the  United  Nations 
and  INTERPOL  in  tackling  these  areas  of  crime 
has  substantially  strengthened  since  the  adoption  of 
resolution 71/19, two years ago. Cooperation between 
our  two  organizations  has  especially  intensified  in 
the  context  of  counter-terrorism.  Over  the  past  two 
years,  new  cooperation  agreements  have  been  signed 
between  INTERPOL  and  the  United  Nations  Office 
of Counter-Terrorism and the United Nations Counter-
Terrorism  Executive  Directorate  (CTED),  which,  in 
this context, has led to INTERPOL expert participation 
in  17  CTED  country-assessment  visits.  In  addition,  I 
am  very  pleased  to  see  substantial  recognition  of 
the  contribution  of  INTERPOL  to  the  fight  against 
terrorism  and  the  organization’s  support  to  Member 
States  and  the  United  Nations  in  implementing  the 
United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, in 
particular  through  Security  Council  resolutions  2341 
(2017) and 2396 (2017), inter alia.
The  mission  of  INTERPOL  is  to  work  towards 
making  that  cooperation  as  seamless  and  effective  as 
possible  and  to  carry  out  our  collective  fight  against 
crime  across  borders  by  connecting  law  enforcement 
in  our  194  member  countries  and  working  together 
towards  a  safer  world.  That  cooperation  framework 
rests on the apolitical character of INTERPOL, rooted 
in  the  principles  of  neutrality  and  independence  and 
Furthermore, 
the  close  convergence  of 
the 
respective  visions  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL is exemplified by the seven global policing 
goals  launched  by  INTERPOL,  alongside  the  United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in Vienna, just last 
month. These goals aim to serve as a framework for the 
international community to collectively address today’s 
most pressing security threats and have been designed 
26/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
to  complement  and  further  support  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  set  forth  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  Their  overarching  purpose 
is  to  provide  guidance  on  which  criminal  threats  the 
international law-enforcement community should give 
priority to — and commit to — in the years to come, as 
part of our common broader efforts to meet objectives 
under the 2030 Agenda.
Criminal threats share a common denominator: the 
dire effects they have on our public security, long-term 
stability, economic systems and governance structures, 
which  ultimately  stifle  economic  development  and 
deprive  society  of  a  better  future.  The  fight  against 
international  crime  is  an  instrument  in  bringing 
about  global  peace  and  stability.  Its  core  lies  in  law 
enforcement, yet its roots and ramifications extend far 
beyond the strict boundaries of ministries and agencies 
in charge of policing.
In  an  increasingly  complex,  fast-evolving  and 
therefore  less  predictable  threat  landscape,  political 
leadership in international police cooperation is needed 
more  than  ever.  Connecting  the  dots  is  just  the  first 
step in building a robust cooperation network; relying 
on  key  decision  makers  to  lead  it  towards  a  shared 
vision  is  the  next.  With  the  reviewed  draft  resolution 
on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
INTERPOL  being  brought  up  for  adoption  at  today’s 
meeting, we look forward to marking a new milestone 
in our common journey towards a safer world.
to 
recognize 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
the 
outstanding  efforts  made  by  the  Permanent  Missions 
of Brazil and Switzerland in co-facilitating the review 
of  today’s  draft  resolution  and  in  bringing  together 
the  precious  viewpoints  and  contributions  offered  by 
Member States. As we prepare to further strengthen the 
global  security  architecture  with  the  United  Nations 
and Member States, INTERPOL expresses its highest 
gratitude and appreciation to the General Assembly for 
giving us this opportunity today.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  128  and  its 
sub-items (a) to (z).
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/73/L.17,  A/73/L.21,  A/73/L.22,  as  orally  revised, 
A/73/L.25, A/73/L.26/Rev.1, A/73/L.27 and A/73/L.28.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote or position before we take decisions on the draft 
resolutions, may I remind delegations that explanations 
are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
I  call  on  the  representative  of  Austria  on  a  point 
of order.
Mr.  Kickert  (Austria):  I  want  to  clarify  whether 
a  vote  has  been  called  on  the  draft  resolution  on 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Council of Europe (A/73/L.27).
The Acting President: I understand that is not yet 
the case.
I call on the representative of the Sudan on a point 
of order.
Mr. Elnour (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of my country, I would like to request a recorded vote 
on operative paragraph 4 of the draft resolution entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Council of Europe” (A/73/L.27). Our steadfast position 
on the International Criminal Court, to which there is a 
specific reference in paragraph 4 of the draft resolution, 
is the basis of that request.
Mr.  Ilnytskyi  (Ukraine):  Before  the  General 
Assembly proceeds with the adoption of draft resolution 
A/73/L.28,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States” 
(CIS), I would like to make the following statement.
 Ukraine supports cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations  in  the 
context  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  many  cases,  such  cooperation  proves  to 
be  an  important  tool  for  the  effective  settlement  of 
conflicts and for promoting peace and security, but that 
is not the case with the CIS, which, as an institution, 
totally  ignores  the  aggressive  actions  of  one  of  its 
member States, namely, the Russian Federation, which 
continues to violate the Charter of the United Nations, 
the  CIS  Charter,  international  law  and  multilateral 
and  bilateral  agreements.  Just  yesterday,  Russian 
Federation  military  vessels  fired  at  and  forcefully 
captured three Ukrainian Navy vessels near the Kerch 
Strait, thereby committing an act of aggression against 
Ukraine,  as  set  out  in  the  definition  of  aggression 
contained  in  paragraph  (d)  of  article  3  of  resolution 
3314  (XXIX).  Unfortunately,  the  CIS  is  not  able  to 
make every effort to achieve the pacific settlement of 
disputes as enshrined in Article 52 of the Charter of the 
United Nations.
18-39775
27/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
The  Agreement  on  the  Establishment  of  the  CIS, 
the Alma Ata Declaration and the CIS Charter do not 
endow  the  Commonwealth  with  the  status  of  having 
the features of a subject of international law. The CIS 
is a special interregional formation that does not only 
lack definitive of status but in fact includes a military 
and  political  alliance  established  on  the  basis  of  the 
CIS Collective Security Treaty of 15 May 1992, which 
binds only some members of the Commonwealth.
Under  those  circumstances,  Ukraine  dissociates 
itself  from  the  consensus  on  the  adoption  of  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.28, 
to  our 
understanding that the adoption of the draft resolution 
should  not  be  interpreted  as  de  jure  recognition  of 
the  Commonwealth  as  a  regional  organization  or 
arrangement, as defined in Chapter VIII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
exclusively  due 
Mr. Moraru (Republic of Moldova): I take the floor 
to express my delegation’s position on draft resolution 
A/73/L.28,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations and the Commonwealth of Independent States” 
(CIS).  The  Republic  of  Moldova  supports  promoting 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations in advancing the purposes and principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
in 
the  report  of 
The Republic of Moldova takes note of the activities 
outlined 
the  Secretary-General 
(A/73/328) on cooperation between the United Nations 
and the CIS, which provides information on the various 
exchanges  and  contacts  with  the  CIS  secretariat  that 
have  taken  place  on  matters  relating  to  drug  control, 
crime  prevention  and  international  terrorism  in  the 
context of sustainable development and human security.
While  joining  the  consensus  on  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.28, my delegation wishes to reiterate that, due 
to  reservations  on  the  regulation  of  the  chairmanship 
of the Commonwealth of Independent States that were 
adopted on 10 October 2008, the Republic of Moldova 
does  not  recognize  the  international  legal  personality 
of the CIS.
The General Assembly has already been informed 
of the fact that the basic documents of the CIS, namely, 
the  Agreement  on  the  Establishment  of  the  CIS,  the 
Alma  Ata  Declaration  and  the  CIS  Charter,  do  not 
endow the Commonwealth with the status of having the 
features of a subject of international law. We therefore 
ask that the adoption of draft resolution A.73/L.28 not 
be interpreted as deviating from previously expressed 
Moldovan reservations.
Mr.  Elnour  (Sudan)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My 
country’s  delegation  would  like  to  clarify  its  position 
with  respect  to  draft  resolution  A/73/L.27.  I  speak  in 
explanation of vote before the voting.
Current  practice  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC) shows that the Court has become a tool of 
international  conflicts  and  a  mechanism  for  political 
action. Therefore, the Sudan reiterates its firm and clear 
position, which is to reject the Court and its practices.
The Court has become a platform for politicizing 
international  justice.  It  targets  active  African  leaders 
and threatens peace and security in African countries. It 
has become an adversary to, rather than an enhancement 
of,  the  international  justice  system.  Furthermore,  we 
note the ongoing attempts to turn the General Assembly 
into an assembly of States parties to the ICC, in breach 
of the Charter of the United Nations and in violation of 
established principles of international law.
We would recall that the relationship between the 
United Nations and the ICC must take into account the 
fact that they are two separate and independent entities. 
There is no organic or structural relationship between 
them. We are very much concerned by the attempts of 
some States parties to the Rome Statute of the ICC to 
turn  the  General  Assembly  into  a  de  facto  assembly 
of  States  parties  to  the  Statute.  My  delegation  has 
repeatedly expressed its firm and clear position against 
that trend.
Some  countries  seek  to  interpret  the  nature  of 
the  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
ICC  beyond  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement  between 
two.  The  Relationship 
Agreement  has  very  clear  and  specific  objective, 
namely, that it should not, under any circumstances, be 
used to gain new ground at the United Nations for the 
ICC, which is supposed to be independent pursuant to 
the Agreement, which constitutes a legal framework
the 
The  Sudan  has  clearly  expressed  its  position  and 
will  continue  to  do  so,  while  we  call  for  adhering  to 
the  Relationship  Agreement  without  expansion  in  its 
interpretation.  My  country  opposes  any  reference  to 
the Rome Statute establishing the ICC in paragraph 4 of 
the draft resolution on cooperation between the United 
Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  (A/73/L.27).  The 
ICC is not the sole institution within the international 
28/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
justice  system,  and  mentioning  it  alone  only  implies 
that  it  enjoys  unanimous  support.  The  reality  is  far 
from that, as States parties to the ICC have themselves 
attested  that  the  ICC  is  not  universal.  Rather,  it  is  a 
club  with  limited  membership,  limited  functions  and 
limited capabilities, whose independence and integrity 
are doubted. Therefore, States that are not party to the 
ICC cannot be forced to acknowledge it, and the United 
Nations cannot be forced to cooperate with the Court 
outside  the  bounds  of  the  Relationship  Agreement 
between the two entities.
We  hope  that  our  concerns,  which  are  shared 
by  a  number  of  States  that  are  not  parties  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  will  be  addressed.  That  is  why  we  are 
requesting  a  specific  vote  on  operative  paragraph  4 
of the draft resolution. In explaining our position, we 
deem  it  necessary  to  defend  our  sovereignty  and  our 
perspective. We stress that we are not party to the ICC 
and  we  have  no  obligations  whatsoever  towards  the 
Court pursuant to the Vienna Convention on the Law of 
Treaties, international law and international customary 
law. We do not and will not cooperate with the ICC or 
give it any consideration.
The Sudan has a constitutional, legal, cultural and 
moral obligation to punish those who have perpetrated 
crimes  and  violations  under  established  international 
law,  including  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 1948, the four 
Geneva  Conventions  of  1949  and  the  two  Additional 
Protocols  and  all  other  human  rights  treaties  and 
conventions.  We  are  committed  to  fighting  impunity. 
Additional  Protocol  II  to  the  Geneva  Conventions 
provides in article 3 that
“Nothing  in  this  Protocol  shall  be  invoked 
for  the  purpose  of  affecting  the  sovereignty  of  a 
State  or  the  responsibility  of  the  government,  by 
all  legitimate  means,  to  maintain  or  re-establish 
law and order in the State or to defend the national 
unity and territorial integrity of the State.”
The  Sudan  has  ratified  most  of  the  relevant 
international  conventions  and 
including 
the  two  Additional  Protocols  to  the  four  Geneva 
Conventions of 1949. Based on what I have said here, 
the Sudan does not give any consideration or weight to 
paragraph 4 of draft resolution A/73/L.27. We call upon 
all Member States to vote against its inclusion in that 
draft resolution. My country’s delegation requests that 
treaties, 
the statement of the Sudan and its position be included 
in the official record of the meeting.
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of Austria on a point of order.
Mr.  Kickert  (Austria):  I  have  an  explanation  of 
vote to deliver before the vote that was just requested, 
but I need some clarification as to what we are voting 
on.  I  would  therefore  like  to  ask  for  a  clarification 
in  that  respect.  Did  I  understand  correctly  that  the 
representative  of  the  Sudan  has  called  for  deletion  of 
paragraph  4  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.27?  If  so,  we 
would like to know if retention of the paragraph would 
then  be  a  vote  in  favour  and  deletion  a  vote  against. 
Could  you  provide  clarification  on  this  point,  Sir, 
before I make my explanation of vote.
The  Acting  President:  I  understand  that  the 
representative of the Sudan asked for a vote on operative 
paragraph 4 of draft resolution A/73/L.27. In paragraph 
4 of the draft resolution there is a reference to the Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court. A vote in 
favour  will  retain  that  sentence;  a  vote  against  will 
delete it.
Mr. Kickert (Austria): I thank the Acting President 
for clarifying this point. I have the honour to speak in 
explanation of vote before the voting on behalf of the 
European Union (EU) and its member States.
We  deeply  regret  that  the  Sudan  has  asked  for 
deletion  of  operative  paragraph  4  of  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.27,  which  has  been  in  the  text  for  years.  The 
EU  and  its  member  States  reiterate  their  unwavering 
support for the International Criminal Court (ICC) as 
an  important  tool  of  the  international  community  for 
fighting impunity and contributing to peaceful societies.
The gross violations of international humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights  that  we  witness  worldwide  are 
a  clear  reminder  of  the  increasing  relevance  of  the 
Court,  the  role  of  which  is  to  complement  —  rather 
than replace — existing national judicial systems. The 
primary  responsibility  to  investigate  and  prosecute 
crimes  remains  with 
individual  States.  All 
perpetrators of such crimes must be held accountable 
for their actions.
the 
A  key  element  of  the  Rome  Statute  is  its  equal 
application. In that respect, the creation of the ICC has 
given millions of victims of atrocity crimes new hope 
that justice will be done. States from all over the world 
have joined efforts to make this possible. The United 
18-39775
29/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
Nations and its Member States consider that the fight 
against impunity for the most serious crimes is critical 
to  guaranteeing  fair  and  just  societies  by  holding 
the  perpetrators  accountable  and  ensuring  justice 
for victims.
justice 
We  also  consider  peace  and 
to  be 
complementary  and  not  mutually  exclusive.  For  these 
reasons, the 28 States members of the European Union 
will vote in favour of the retention of paragraph 4 in its 
entirety. We call on all other States — in particular all 
States parties to the Rome Statute of the ICC — to also 
vote in favour of an intact paragraph 4.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  or  position  before  we 
take decisions on the draft resolutions.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolutions A/73/L.17, A/73/L.21, A/73/L.22, as orally 
revised,  A/73/L.25,  A/73/L.26/Rev.1,  A/73/L.27  and 
A/73/L.28.
Draft resolution A/73/L.17 is entitled “Cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Central European 
Initiative”. 
I  give 
representative  of 
floor 
the 
the 
to 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that, since the submission of draft resolution, 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/73/L.17,  Armenia  has  become  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution A/73/L.17.
like 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.17.
Draft resolution A/73/L.17 was adopted (resolution 
73/10).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/73/L.21 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Police  Organization 
(INTERPOL)”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document 
A/73/L.21, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania,  Andorra, 
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Bulgaria,  Canada,  Chile,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Equatorial 
Guinea,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Hungary,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malta,  Montenegro,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Poland,  Rwanda,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  the  Sudan,  Sweden,  the  Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia and Uruguay.
The Acting President: May I take it the Assembly 
decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.21?
Draft resolution A/73/L.21 was adopted (resolution 
73/11).
The Acting President: Draft A/73/L.22, as orally 
revised,  is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization”. 
representative  of 
I  give 
floor 
the 
the 
to 
the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/73/L.22,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution,  as  orally 
revised:  Andorra,  Argentina,  Australia,  Belgium, 
Benin,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Burkino  Faso,  Canada,  Chile,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Finland, 
France, Guatemala, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Montenegro, the 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Poland, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Senegal, 
Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovenia,  Spain,  the  Sudan, 
Switzerland, Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.22, 
as orally revised?
Draft resolution A/73/L.22, as orally revised, was 
adopted (resolution 73/12).
30/32 
18-39775
26/11/2018 
A/73/PV.39
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/73/L.25 
is entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”. I 
give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/73/L.25,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Austria, 
China,  Georgia,  Hungary,  Romania,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova and the Sudan.
like 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.25?
Draft resolution A/73/L.25 was adopted (resolution 
73/13).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/73/L.26/
Rev.1  is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  Democracy  and 
Economic  Development  —  GUAM”.  May  I  take  it 
that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.26/Rev.1?
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.26/Rev.1  was  adopted 
(resolution 73/14).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/73/L.27 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Council of Europe”. 
to 
representative  of 
floor 
I  give 
the 
the 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/73/L.27,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Cyprus, 
Denmark, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Mexico, the Republic 
of Moldova, Spain, Turkey and Ukraine.
like 
The  Acting  President:  A  separate  recorded  vote 
has  been  requested  on  operative  paragraph  4  of  draft 
resolution A/73/L.27.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, 
Bahamas,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malawi,  Maldives,  Malta,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Saint  Lucia, 
Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Ukraine, United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
Uruguay
Against:
Bahrain,  Belarus,  China,  Oman,  Russian 
Federation,  Saudi  Arabia,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Yemen
Abstaining:
Algeria,  Bangladesh,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia, Central African Republic, Egypt, India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nigeria,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Singapore, 
Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam
Operative paragraph 4 was retained by 71 votes to 
9, with 27 abstentions.
The Acting President: We will now consider the 
draft  resolution  in  its  entirety.  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.27, 
as a whole?
Draft resolution A/73/L.27, as a whole, was adopted 
(resolution 73/15).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/73/L.28 
is  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the Commonwealth of Independent States”.
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution, 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
the  following  countries  have  become 
A/73/L.28, 
18-39775
31/32
A/73/PV.39 
26/11/2018
sponsors of the draft resolution: Armenia, Kazakhstan, 
Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation, Samoa, the Sudan 
and Turkmenistan.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.28?
Draft resolution A/73/L.28 was adopted (resolution 
73/16).
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
sub-items (a) to (z) of agenda item 128.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
32/32 
18-39775
