United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
44th plenary meeting
Monday, 3 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.44
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Ke (Cambodia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 12
Sport for development and peace
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/325)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.36)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  Tunisia  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.36.
Mr.  Khiari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  Draft 
resolution A/73/L.36 highlights the importance of sport 
as  a  crucial  vehicle  for  development,  social  cohesion, 
peace  and  solidarity  among  peoples.  Resolution  70/1, 
adopted  by  the  Assembly  on  25  September  2015, 
stipulates in paragraph 37:
“Sport 
recognize 
is  also  an 
important  enabler  of 
sustainable  development.  We 
the 
growing contribution of sport to the realization of 
development and peace in its promotion of tolerance 
and  respect  and  the  contributions  it  makes  to  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  of  young  people, 
individuals and communities as well as to health, 
education and social inclusion objectives.”
It is in that spirit that, among other things, this year’s 
draft resolution recognizes the importance of adopting 
comprehensive approaches towards health and regular 
physical activity, including sport and leisure, in order 
to prevent and control non-communicable diseases and 
promote healthy lifestyles.
The draft resolution also welcomes the memorandum 
of  understanding  signed  in  April  2014  between  the 
International  Olympic  Committee  and  the  United 
Nations and affirms that the Olympic and Paralympic 
movements  make  an 
invaluable  contribution  by 
establishing  sport  as  a  unique  means  of  promoting 
peace  and  development.  It  also  duly  reflects  the  roles 
of  UNESCO  and  UN-Women  and  the  importance 
of partnerships.
The  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  the 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against  Women  and  the  International 
Convention against Doping in Sport are important tools 
in the context of sport for development and peace.
The  draft  resolution  also  refers  to  the  UNESCO 
Kazan  Action  Plan  and  the  World  Health  Assembly 
Global  Action  Plan  on  Physical  Activity  2018-
2030.  The  Kazan  Action  Plan  and  its  sport  policy 
follow-up  framework,  adopted  at  the  sixth  UNESCO 
International  Conference  of  Ministers  and  Senior 
Officials  Responsible  for  Physical  Education  and 
Sport,  together  provide  a  crucial  frame  of  reference 
based  on  voluntary  activities  that  seeks  to  encourage 
international harmonization among decision-makers in 
the  areas  of  physical  education,  physical  activity  and 
sport, as well as a tool for synchronizing international 
and national policies in those areas.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org). 
18-40542 (E)
*1840542*
A/73/PV.44 
03/12/2018
sports 
The  draft  resolution  encourages  Member  States, 
United  Nations  entities, 
including  peacekeeping 
missions,  special  political  missions  and  integrated 
peacebuilding  missions, 
organizations, 
federations and associations, athletes, the media, civil 
society,  universities  and  the  private  sector  to  make 
use  of  those  tools,  where  possible,  in  a  coherent  and 
integrated  way  to  give  sport  a  more  decisive  role  in 
intersectoral  strategies  relating  to  development  and 
peace  and  to  integrate  sport  and  physical  education 
into 
international,  regional  and  national  policies 
and programmes.
Finally,  the  draft  resolution  calls  on  the  relevant 
entities  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  other 
international  and 
regional  organizations,  within 
their  respective  mandates  and  existing  resources,  to 
strengthen and systematize inter-agency collaboration, 
in line with the updated United Nations Action Plan on 
Sport for Development and Peace, in order to maximize 
the potential of sport and physical activity to contribute 
to  the  achievement  of  the  internationally  agreed 
development  goals,  including  the  goals  and  targets  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  and 
national peacebuilding and State-building priorities.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underscore  that,  as 
the  main  co-sponsors,  the  delegations  of  my  country 
and of Monaco worked to maintain consensus around 
this  draft  resolution.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
express  the  appreciation  of  my  delegation  and  that 
of  Monaco  for  the  quality  of  the  fruitful  discussions 
and  exchanges  throughout  the  process  of  informal 
consultations, as well as the great flexibility shown by 
various delegations. We express our gratitude to all the 
traditional  co-sponsors  and  the  new  co-sponsors  for 
their renewed support to the draft resolution.
I could not conclude my remarks without expressing 
my heartfelt thanks to Ms. Daniela Bas, Director of the 
Division  for  Inclusive  Social  Development,  and  her 
team,  with  whom  we  worked  very  closely  throughout 
the consultation process.
Mr.  Stone  (Australia):  Australia 
thanks 
the 
Secretary-General for his report (A/73/325).
Australia supports efforts to use sport as an enabler 
for development and peace. We recognize the important 
role that sport plays in bringing people and communities 
together  and  in  providing  opportunities  for  inclusion 
while also fostering community pride. Sport also teaches 
important  life  skills  such  as  leadership,  teamwork, 
respecting rules, discipline and perseverance.
of 
ability, 
Australia  is  firmly  committed  to  promoting  an 
inclusive  environment  and  supporting  participation 
regardless 
religion, 
socioeconomic  status,  ethnicity  and  age.  To  support 
that,  Australia  has  invested  in  national  policies  and 
initiatives to promote diversity in physical activity and 
healthy living in all segments of the population at all 
levels of sport.
gender, 
race, 
Australia  has  promoted  inclusivity  at  the  major 
international sporting events that we have hosted, such 
as the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, which 
has been recognized as the most inclusive and accessible 
major sporting event in history. Australia’s para-athletes 
are  some  of  the  most  celebrated  and  recognizable 
athletes  and  have  a  particular  ability  to  motivate  and 
inspire the nation. For the first time in history, the 2018 
Commonwealth Games included the full integration of 
para-sports  in  the  competition  schedule  and  an  equal 
number of medals for men and women.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
note  that  today  is  the  International  Day  of  Persons 
with  Disabilities,  and  an  important  reminder  of  the 
contribution of sport to helping to promote inclusivity 
for all.
Australia  is  working  in  partnership  with  our 
major  sporting  codes  to  help  to  break  down  barriers 
to  integration  and  inclusion  in  migrant  communities 
to deliver a number of community programmes across 
the country.
Australia  is  currently  in  the  process  of  renewing 
its  Sports  Diplomacy  Strategy,  and  supporting  sport 
for  development  will  remain  one  of  our  strategic 
priorities. Australia takes pride in using sport to help 
developing countries in our region to achieve positive 
economic and social results within their communities. 
We  are  also  working  to  deliver  stronger  development 
outcomes through partnerships throughout the Pacific 
through the Sport for Development programme and the 
Australia  Pacific  Sports  Linkages  programme.  Those 
programmes  aim  to  strengthen  sporting  ties  with  our 
valued neighbours across the Pacific, with a particular 
focus on championing women to be active.
supports 
Australia 
Secretary-General’s 
to  further  work  on  sport  for 
recommendations 
development  and  peace  at  all  levels  and  to  promote 
the 
2/12 
18-40542
03/12/2018 
A/73/PV.44
policy coherence. Australia’s commitment to the United 
Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and 
the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs)  offer  new  significance  for  sport 
inclusion.  Through  its  role  on  the  Commonwealth 
Advisory  Board  on  Sport  and  at  the  Commonwealth 
Sports  Ministers  Meeting,  Australia  has  identified 
key areas where sport can contribute to advancing the 
SDGs.  Australia’s  involvement  in  research  into  the 
contribution that sport can make to achieving the SDGs 
brings depth and credibility to the place of sport as a 
vehicle  for  improving  inclusion  outcomes  across  the 
areas  of  health,  education,  social  cohesion,  business 
and leadership development at home as well as in our 
immediate neighbourhood.
Earlier this year, Australia delivered the first-ever 
National  Sports  Plan:  Sport  2030.  The  Plan  outlines 
a  number  of  initiatives  to  promote  and  inspire  more 
Australians to be more active more often. That includes 
specific  programmes  centred  around  providing 
opportunities to women to assist in overcoming cultural 
barriers  and  enabling  women,  from  the  grassroots  to 
the elite, to become leaders in their sporting fields.
We also remain focused on promoting the importance 
of physical activity to an ageing demographic. We have 
in  place  a  number  of  initiatives  to  encourage  older 
Australians to engage in sport. Our Play by the Rules 
initiative  also  provides  information,  resources,  tools 
and  free  online  training  to  assist  coaches,  officials, 
players and spectators in preventing and dealing with 
discrimination, harassment, child safety, inclusion and 
integrity issues in sport. Play by the Rules guides grass-
roots  sports  clubs  and  organizations  to  be  inclusivity 
champions  in  their  communities  and  to  celebrate  the 
rich diversity of sport.
Australia  remains  committed  to  working  towards 
further inclusivity, equality and diversity in sport and 
using  sport  as  an  enabler  for  development  and  peace. 
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
the  Permanent  Missions  of  Tunisia  and  Monaco  for 
their co-facilitation of the draft resolution to be adopted 
today. Australia is very pleased to co-sponsor the draft 
resolution, as we did with its many precursors.
Mr.  Rybakov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  We 
would like to thank the Secretary-General for his very 
thorough report on strengthening the global framework 
for 
leveraging  sport  for  development  and  peace 
(A/73/325).
Belarus was very pleased to join as a co-sponsor of 
draft resolution A/73/L.36, entitled “Sport as an enabler 
of sustainable development”. We express our gratitude 
to  Monaco  and  Tunisia  for  promoting  this  important 
issue on the United Nations agenda.
The  role  of  physical  fitness  and  sport  in  forming 
a healthy way of life and in achieving the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  is  growing  every  year.  Sport 
plays  an  important  role  in  contributing  to  sustainable 
development,  reaffirming  the  principles  of  tolerance 
and  respect,  broadening  rights  and  opportunities  for 
women and young people, individuals and communities, 
and helping to achieve goals in the areas of health care, 
education and social integration.
Against  the  current  backdrop  of  international 
instability, sport continues to serve as a resource that 
can  consolidate  the  ideals  of  peace,  friendship  and 
mutual  understanding.  We  therefore  highly  value 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized 
agencies  in  seeking  to  use  sporting  opportunities  to 
promote development and peace.
Promoting  health,  physical  fitness  and  sport  are 
among the priority areas of the social policy of Belarus. 
Our country is committed to developing international 
cooperation  in  sport  and  to  strengthening  friendly 
relations  among  peoples  through  sport  based  on 
humanist principles and the Olympic ideal.
Sport is indivisible from politics; it is the people’s 
diplomacy.  Through  athleticism,  States  can  project 
their  national  image  on  the  international  stage,  while 
illustrating  the  social  and  political  values  of  their 
societies.  However,  sport  is  politically  neutral,  and  it 
must remain so.
Unfortunately,  sport  is  increasingly  not  about  the 
playing  and  has  developed  into  a  business  rife  with 
corruption and unsportsmanlike activities to win at all 
costs. Doping has become the scourge of modern sport. 
Belarus actively participates in international efforts to 
combat drug use in sport, and upholds the principle of 
legal, individualized and just punishment. At the same 
time, we strongly condemn the tendency to politically 
pressure certain athletes and entire sporting federations 
under the pretext of fighting against doping, while in 
fact it is used to settle political scores, and athletes are 
being caught up in those dirty games.
Biased officiating is another vice in modern sport, 
and  it  violates  the  principles  of  fair  play  and  makes 
18-40542
3/12
A/73/PV.44 
03/12/2018
athletes lose faith in the same chances of winning. In 
that  context,  to  combat  the  negative  trends  in  sport, 
an important role must be played by the International 
Olympic  Committee,  which  must  be  supported  in  its 
activities  by  national  Olympic  committees.  We  must 
not ignore their opinions.
The  Maldives  enacted  its  first  Sports  Act  in 
September  2015.  The  legislation  aims  to  assist  the 
promotion of competitive sports and cultural activities 
at  the  international,  national  and  island  levels.  It  also 
outlines  policies  and  guidelines  to  facilitate  sports 
development with community-level participation.
International  sporting  events  must  be  organized 
in  the  spirit  of  peace,  mutual  understanding  and 
friendship,  and  we  must  recognize  and  respect  the 
unifying  and  reconciliatory  nature  of  such  events. 
Belarus  is  very  proud  that  it  was  granted  the  right  to 
host  the  most  important  European  sporting  event  of 
2019  —  the  second  European  Games.  The  fact  that 
these Games will be held in Minsk will be an important 
milestone on the European sporting calendar. We note 
that preparations are already under way for the eighty-
fifth Ice Hockey World Championship, to be held in the 
capitals of Belarus and Latvia  — Minsk and Riga — in 
2021.
While  sport  is  not  a  panacea  for  solving  all 
international  problems,  it  has  a  unique  capacity  to 
bring  together  people  from  various  cultures  and  to 
help  strengthen  mutual  understanding  among  States 
and peoples in the spirit of the true Olympic ideals of 
friendship, solidarity and fair play.
Mr.  Nasir  (Maldives):  The  Maldives  is  proud  to 
have co-sponsored draft resolution A/73/L.36, entitled 
“Sports  as  an  enabler  of  sustainable  development”. 
As  the  draft  resolution  reiterates,  sport  has  the 
extraordinary  ability 
to  unite  peoples,  overcome 
differences  and  promote  equality,  as  well  as  to  help 
maintain  the  physical  health  of  a  society.  Those 
are  some  of  key  values  that  inform  our  approach  to 
sustainable development in general, and to Sustainable 
Development Goals 3, 4, 5, 16 and 17 in particular.
Sport, especially the Olympic ideal, has helped to 
create  equality  and  a  level  playing  field  to  bring  out 
the best in humankind. The Maldives is proud to be an 
active participant in the Olympic movement. Maldivian 
athletes took the great leap forward by participating in 
the  Olympic  Games  for  the  first  time  in  1988.  It  was 
truly a unique moment in time, not only for those who 
participated but also for a generation of youth inspired by 
the Games as a transformative event. The Government 
of the Maldives has prioritized sport as an instrument 
of youth development to promote a healthy population 
and to realize the full potential of the country’s youth.
That  is  why  we  pioneered  the  implementation  of 
Security Council resolution 2250 (2015). The Maldives, 
in collaboration with the United Nations Development 
Programme, held an official ceremony in the Maldives 
in  August  2016  to  launch  the  implementation  of  the 
resolution, thereby becoming the first country to do so 
in the Asia-Pacific region.
Since  assuming  office  on  17  November,  the  new 
Government  of  President  Ibrahim  Mohamed  Solih 
has  continued  to  make  significant  investments  in 
sports  infrastructure  and  inclusive  opportunities  for 
all.  As  part  of  President  Solih’s  100-day  agenda,  the 
Government  has  made  it  a  priority  to  designate  a 
sports  counsellor  on  every  island  to  eliminate  the 
wage difference between men’s and women’s national 
sports teams and to encourage female participation in 
sport to challenge traditional gender stereotypes. The 
investments in sports will no doubt allow young people 
to  develop  leadership  skills  and  provide  them  with 
support  networks  outside  their  homes.  It  is  therefore 
imperative  to  empower  the  growing  youth  population 
to become active citizens in their communities, which 
will foster economic and social progress.
Sports  programmes  coordinated  by  the  United 
Nations,  Government  agencies  and  non-governmental 
organizations have been found to facilitate sustainable 
development and peaceful coexistence. It is encouraging 
to see that sport for peace and development is reflected 
in all 17 Goals under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  to  see  that  in  action  in  countries 
around the world.
The  Maldives  has  been  making  steady  progress 
in  regional  and  international  competitions  in  various 
sports. Our women’s and men’s teams have performed 
quite  well  in  recent  months.  That  success  has  helped 
to galvanize young people in the country and created 
more opportunities that will unleash their creativity to 
allow them to aim higher and dream bigger.
Mr.  Al  Braiki  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  am 
pleased  to  participate  on  behalf  of  the  young  people 
of the United Arab Emirates in this general debate on 
4/12 
18-40542
03/12/2018 
A/73/PV.44
agenda  item  12,  entitled  “Sports  for  development  and 
peace”. We welcome the efforts of Monaco and Tunisia 
as co-facilitators of draft resolution A/73/L.36, entitled 
“Sport  as  an  enabler  of  sustainable  development”, 
which  stresses  the  importance  of  strengthening  the 
global framework for leveraging sport for development 
and peace. Sport is an important enabler for achieving 
sustainable  development  under 
the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  contributing  to  the 
attainment of the desired goals in the areas of health, 
education, justice and peace.
In March 2019, my country will host 7,000 athletes 
from  more  than  170  States  at  the  Abu  Dhabi  Special 
Olympics World Games — the first time they will be 
held  in  the  Middle  East  since  the  Special  Olympics 
was  established  50  years  ago.  That  is  the  largest 
human sporting event in the world focused on enabling 
those with mental disabilities to participate in sports. 
The  event  represents  an  important  step  towards  the 
integration  of  persons  with  mental  disabilities  into 
inclusive societies.
The United Arab Emirates attaches great importance 
to  building  a  society  that  is  highly  cognizant  of,  and 
educated in, the sport of ju-jitsu. We have adopted the 
sport as a main subject in more than 162 schools and 
more than 300 training centres, with curricula devised 
to support students in developing technical skills and 
physical health, as well as to strengthen the values of 
discipline and commitment and encourage students to 
become passionate about sports. My country established 
the Abu Dhabi World Ju-Jitsu Championship, now in its 
tenth  year,  to  which  we  welcome  the  top  professional 
men  and  women  as  well  as  young  people  and  people 
with disabilities.
We believe that the role of women and girls is an 
essential  tool  in  the  advancement  of  women.  In  the 
United  Arab  Emirat,  women  and  girls  have  attained 
prominent positions in karate, weightlifting, volleyball 
and Ju-Jitsu. Moreover, the development of the Sheikha 
Fatima bint Mubarak Prize in women’s sport is the first 
of its kind, aimed at enhancing the position of women 
in sport while promoting development and seeking to 
achieve their aspirations.
Sport is a useful tool for enhancing the participation 
of  young  people  in  their  growth,  self-confidence  and 
sense of belonging, while strengthening tolerance and 
respect.  Consequently,  youngsters  become  agents  for 
change and partners in building peaceful and inclusive 
societies  and  contributing  to  sustainable  development 
and social cohesion. That is why young people in my 
country  have  participated  in  a  number  of  workshops 
on sport diplomacy and sport as a lifestyle, as well as 
a  workshop  on  sport,  youth  and  social  development, 
which was held last week at the Permanent Mission of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  to  the  United  Nations.  We 
attach great importance to listening to the opinions of 
young people and to discussing their ideas and opinions 
as a means of finding solutions to challenges, with the 
participation of decision-makers and State officials as 
well as at the international level.
My  country  is  also  harnessing  sport  for  peace 
and  development  by  encouraging  sports  in  refugee 
camps. We recently launched the 2018 summer sports 
programme  in  the  Mrajeeb  Al  Fhood  camp  in  Jordan 
to develop the talents of young people in the camp and 
help to improve the living conditions of refugees.
In  conclusion,  as  a  representative  of  the  young 
people  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  I  would  like 
to  stress  the  importance  of  leveraging  sport  for 
development and peace as a key element and enabler of 
peaceful coexistence, tolerance and team spirit. Sport 
also  imparts  the  values  of  discipline,  endurance  and 
courage to young people.
Mr. Chua (Singapore): At the outset, my delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  strengthening  the  global 
framework  for 
leveraging  sport  for  development 
and  peace  (A/73/325).  We  would  also  like  to  express 
our  appreciation 
the  Permanent  Missions  of 
Monaco  and  Tunisia  for  their  hard  work  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.36,  entitled  “Sport  as  an  enabler  of 
sustainable development”.
to 
Sport can be a force for positive change in society. 
It  instils  values  such  as  discipline,  perseverance, 
teamwork  and  sportsmanship.  It  also  inspires  people 
to  push  boundaries  and  strive  for  greater  heights 
beyond  what  they  believe  they  can  normally  achieve. 
Those are important skills for an individual’s personal 
and  professional  life  and  future.  In  addition,  exercise 
and  sport  contribute  to  improvements  in  health  and 
the  overall  quality  of  life  of  individuals  towards  the 
attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals.
Singapore  celebrates  sport  in  everyday  life.  We 
launched  the  Get  Active  initiative  in  2016,  a  week-
long  sports  festival  that  encourages  Singaporeans 
to  participate  in  sport  and  to  have  an  active  and 
18-40542
5/12
A/73/PV.44 
03/12/2018
healthy  lifestyle.  Sport  not  only  brings  about  health 
benefits;  it  also  has  a  positive  impact  on  society.  As 
noted in the Secretary-General’s report, sport can help 
to  build  human  and  social  capital  and  promote  social 
integration,  inclusion  and  cohesion.  It  is  a  powerful 
vehicle 
individuals  and  communities 
together. It can foster social development by changing 
perceptions.  Regardless  of  faith,  culture,  background 
or  gender,  sport  enhances  mutual  understanding,  true 
teamwork and respect.
that  brings 
The  esprit  de  corps  forged  through  sport  also 
fosters  a  sense  of  pride  and  solidarity  among  people. 
Given  the  personal  and  development  benefits  sport 
offers, emphasis should be placed on increasing access 
to,  and  participation  in,  sport.  It  is  for  those  reasons 
that  Singapore  has  integrated  sport  into  our  national 
educational  curriculum  under  the  sports  education 
programme. Those are important values that we believe 
should be imbued in our people, especially our youth.
Sport  also  contributes  to  lowering  barriers  in 
societies  in  other  ways.  It  can  engender  greater 
acceptance and awareness of persons with disabilities. 
In  2016,  Singapore  launched  the  Disability  Sports 
Master Plan to ensure that sport in Singapore remains 
an inclusive activity. The Master Plan provides persons 
with disabilities with more opportunities to participate 
in  sports.  It  also  develops  and  expands  the  pool  of 
educators  with  expertise  in  disability  sport.  We  are 
also working to increase awareness and support for our 
athletes with disabilities among Singaporeans through 
the  annual  inclusive  sports  festival,  which  features 
adaptive  sports  try-outs  and  workshops  that  everyone 
can experience.
The  efforts  to  develop  sport  in  Singapore  have 
succeeded.  Notably,  at  the  October  2018  Asian  Para 
Games  in  Jakarta,  Singapore  fielded  44  para-athletes 
across 10 sports and achieved our best-ever medal haul. 
But sport is about more than just results. For our para-
athletes, it gives them self-belief and confidence that, 
despite physical disabilities, they are able to participate 
and  compete.  They  were  also  an  inspiration  to  all 
Singaporeans,  who  saw  how  they  achieved  sporting 
excellence despite their physical disabilities. They prove 
that, with hard work, perseverance and determination, 
one can overcome all odds.
The  benefits  of  sport  also  transcend  national 
boundaries.  Sport  helps  to  promote  closer  people-to-
ties  between  Member  States.  There  are 
people 
countless  inspirational  stories  of  how  regional  and 
international friendships were forged in the fiery battle 
of sporting competition. We hope that such ties serve 
as stepping stones towards peace and greater dialogue 
and cooperation.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
recognizes  the  role  of  sport  in  the  realization  of 
development and peace, the promotion of tolerance and 
respect  and  the  empowerment  of  women  and  young 
people,  as  well  as  its  many  contributions  to  health, 
education  and  our  goals  of  social  inclusion.  Let  us 
continue to uphold the spirit of sport and aim to build 
a  sustainable,  inclusive  and  prosperous  future  for 
all peoples.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for 
his report (A/73/325), and in particular the Division for 
Inclusive  Social  Development,  the  Secretariat  entity 
now  charged  with  the  issue  of  sport  for  development 
and peace.
The  new  title  of  this  draft  resolution,  “Sport  as 
an  enabler  of  sustainable  development”  (A/73/L.36), 
unequivocally  affirms  that  sport  provides  numerous 
opportunities  for  achieving  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  It  was  25  years  ago,  at  the 
initiative  of  Egypt,  that  the  General  Assembly  first 
adopted a resolution dedicated to sport and the Olympic 
ideal (resolution 48/11). Over the years since 1993, the 
recognition  of  sport  within  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations has grown continuously.
As  my  counterpart  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Tunisia  underscored  in  his  statement  introducing 
the  draft  resolution,  the  text  before  us  highlights  the 
normative  framework  relating  to  sport.  The  vast 
contribution  of  sport  to  development  and  peace  is 
undeniable, and we are convinced that it has immense 
potential in the context of our joint efforts to achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals. We must continue 
to develop sport’s enabling role, in particular by using 
the communication tools used by young people.
than 
What  better  example 
the  Pyeongchang 
Olympic  Winter  Games  to  illustrate  what  dialogue 
around sport can achieve? The success of the efforts of 
the President of the International Olympic Committee 
to establish dialogue between the two Koreas has sent 
the world a message of hope. To see athletes from those 
two  countries  parade  under  the  same  flag  during  the 
6/12 
18-40542
03/12/2018 
A/73/PV.44
opening and closing ceremonies was extremely moving 
for all those who love sport and advocate peace.
Beyond  those  symbolic  moments,  sport  promotes 
understanding,  cohesion,  reconciliation  and  peace.  In 
many  countries,  among  many  communities,  sport  has 
proved to be a common language that overcomes barriers.
Whether recreational or competitive, solo or group, 
sport  conveys  fundamental  values  and  allows  human 
beings to express their full potential. In the context of 
the Olympism in Action forum held on the eve of the 
opening of the Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires 
in October, in which I had the privilege of participating, 
I had occasion to realize just how much of the work we 
do at the United Nations is relevant to non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  and  grass-roots  associations, 
especially  in  the  areas  of  social  development  and 
human  rights.  That  is  worth  underscoring  in  a  year 
when we are celebrating the seventieth anniversary of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and on the 
heels of the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit we held in 
September. It is therefore crucial that we always keep 
in mind throughout our deliberations those who will be 
impacted by the decisions we make.
The great success of that first forum, which brought 
together the members of the Olympic movement, NGOs, 
sports  professionals  and  United  Nations  agencies, 
demonstrated, as if there were any need, the unifying 
power of the International Olympic Committee and its 
effective  contribution  to  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  discussions  also  confirmed  the  role  of 
sport  as  a  means  of  raising  awareness  about  social 
issues and its contribution to social cohesion, inclusion 
and the fight against inequalities, including gender and 
pay inequality.
identify  with 
Athletes  are  role  models,  and  young  people  in 
particular 
the  greatest  champions. 
Therefore, just like world-renowned teams, athletes are 
able  to  spread  positive  messages  and  help  to  support 
international cooperation activities. It is therefore up to 
us to convince them to help us promote the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
The  societal  benefits  of  sport  are  indisputable. 
The  draft  resolution  recognizes  the  Kazan  Action 
Plan,  endorsed  by  UNESCO  in  2017,  and  its  sport 
policy follow-up framework. I would like to stress the 
relevance  of  that  tool  as  a  point  of  reference,  since  it 
sets  out  a  comprehensive  vision  of  universal  access 
to  sport,  physical  education  and  physical  activity  and 
articulates how they can contribute to the achievement 
of the Sustainable Development Goals and their targets.
Sport  is  a  fundamental  educational  tool,  and  we 
must  continue  to  work  to  ensure  that  it  is  an  integral 
part  of  school  curricula  in  all  countries.  Access  to 
sport is particularly important for girls and people with 
disabilities:  they  must  be  assured  unhindered  access 
to sport. In that connection, I would like to commend 
the work of the United Nations and its partners as we 
celebrate today, 3 December, as the International Day 
of Persons with Disabilities.
Through sport many young people from disadvantaged 
backgrounds have been able to pursue higher education 
and  to  access  opportunities  otherwise  unavailable  to 
them.  I  must  also  commend  private  sector-sponsored 
after-school  programmes,  which  enable  young  people 
from  marginalized  communities  to  avoid  becoming 
caught up in delinquency.
As  highlighted  in  the  political  declaration  of  the 
third high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the 
prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, 
held  in  September,  regular  physical  activity  should 
continue  to  be  encouraged  as  a  means  of  promoting 
a  healthy  lifestyle,  as  it  helps  to  fight  cardiovascular 
disease and obesity. Given its benefits, today physical 
activity is integrated into medical treatment, including 
in  the  fight  against  cancer,  since  it  helps  patients  to 
better withstand intense treatment.
We  see  an  encouraging  convergence  of  efforts 
by  different  sectors  of  society,  State  institutions,  the 
private sector and medical establishments. Partnerships 
will be key for better harnessing sport to promote and 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
Our delegation is also particularly pleased with the 
events that it was able to promote over the past year in 
cooperation with many missions and organizations on 
the sidelines of the Commission for Social Development 
and the Commission on the Status of Women, as well 
as on the occasion of the International Day of Sport for 
Development  and  Peace  and  the  High-level  Political 
Forum on Sustainable Development and in conjunction 
with the Football World Cup.
The fruitful collaboration between the Permanent 
Missions  of  Tunisia  and  Monaco,  co-Chairs  of  the 
Group of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace, 
has  increased  over  the  past  year  with  the  opening 
up  of  the  Group  to  all  interested  Member  States.  We 
18-40542
7/12
A/73/PV.44 
03/12/2018
have focused on providing a space for interaction and 
exchange  with  United  Nations  entities.  The  strong 
mobilization at our monthly meetings demonstrates the 
power of sport as a factor of sustainable development. 
We are particularly proud that the draft resolution we 
are about to adopt is geared towards the future we want 
and  highlights  the  synergies  between  sport  and  the 
2030 Agenda.
I  could  not  conclude  without  expressing  my 
gratitude  and  friendship  to  my  Tunisian  counterpart, 
an accomplished sportsman with whom it has been my 
honour and pleasure to co-chair the Group of Friends of 
Sport over the past six years.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.36,  entitled  “Sport  as  an  enabler  of 
sustainable development”.
floor 
representative  or 
the 
to 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
(Department 
Ms.  De  Miranda 
for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like to announce that since the submission of the draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
document  A/73/L.36,  the  following  countries  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania, 
Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Bahrain, Belarus, 
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Bulgaria, 
Burundi, Canada, the Central African Republic, Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  the 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Dominica,  the  Dominican 
Republic,  Estonia,  Finland,  Greece,  Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  Indonesia,  Japan,  Kuwait,  Latvia, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Lichtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Malawi,  the  Maldives,  Malta,  Mauritius,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Nepal,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Palau, 
Panama,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Qatar,  the  Republic 
of  Korea,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Serbia,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia, the Sudan, Sweden, Togo, Turkmenistan, the 
United Arab Emirates, Uruguay and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.36?
adopted 
Draft 
(resolution 73/24).
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  floor 
to  speakers  in  explanation  of  position  following  the 
resolution  A/73/L.36  was 
adoption  of  the  resolution,  I  would  like  to  remind 
delegations that explanations are limited to 10 minutes 
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Schorr  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  believes 
that  sport  and  physical 
education  contribute  to  the  promotion  of  education, 
health, development and peace. As such, we joined the 
consensus  on  resolution  73/24  today  with  the  express 
understanding  that  the  resolution  does  not  imply  that 
States must join instruments that they have not already 
joined,  or  implement  provisions  of  human  rights 
instruments  that  they  have  not  accepted.  By  joining 
the  consensus  on  the  resolution,  we  do  not  recognize 
any change in the current state of treaty or customary 
international  law.  We  also  understand  the  resolution’s 
reaffirmation of prior documents to apply to those that 
affirmed them initially and, in the case of international 
treaties, to the States parties.
We further understand the reference in the resolution 
to “internationally agreed development goals” to refer 
to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The 
United  States  position  is  articulate  in  the  following 
explanation of position on that document.
We take this opportunity to make important points 
of clarification on language related to the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  We  underscore  that  the 
2030  Agenda  is  non-binding  and  does  not  create  or 
affect  rights  or  obligations  under  international  law, 
neither does it create any new financial commitments.
The  United  States  recognizes  the  2030  Agenda 
as  a  global  framework  for  sustainable  development 
that can help countries work towards global peace and 
prosperity. We applaud the call for shared responsibility, 
including national responsibility, in the 2030 Agenda, 
and emphasize that all countries have a role to play in 
achieving its vision. The 2030 Agenda recognizes that 
each  country  must  work  towards  implementation  in 
accordance with its own national policies and priorities.
The United States also underscores that paragraph 
18 of the 2030 Agenda calls for countries to implement 
the Agenda in a manner that is consistent with the rights 
and obligations of States under international law.
We  also  highlight  our  mutual  recognition,  in 
paragraph  58,  that  the  implementation  of  the  2030 
Agenda  must  respect  and  be  without  prejudice  to 
the  independent  mandates  of  other  processes  and 
institutions,  including  negotiations,  and  does  not 
8/12 
18-40542
03/12/2018 
A/73/PV.44
prejudge  or  serve  as  a  precedent  for  decisions  and 
actions  under  way  in  other  forums.  For  example,  the 
Agenda  does  not  represent  a  commitment  to  provide 
new market access for goods or services. The Agenda 
also  does  not  interpret  or  alter  any  World  Trade 
Organization  agreement  or  decision,  including  the 
Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual 
Property Rights.
With regard to paragraph 9, we support the focus on 
training,  capacity-building  and  education  of  teachers, 
coaches  and  community  leaders,  although  the  United 
States  does  so  mindful  of,  and  consistent  with,  our 
limited  authority  at  the  federal  level  with  respect  to 
education, which is primarily the responsibility of our 
state and local governments. With regard to paragraph 
15, the United States believes that the United Nations 
Guiding  Principles  on  Business  and  Human  Rights, 
which set out the responsibilities of business enterprises 
and  provide  relevant  guidance  for  sports-related 
organizations,  federations  and  associations,  provide 
a  valuable,  important  and  universal  framework  for 
hosting mega sports events, including the complicated 
process of bidding, organizing, executing and ensuring 
positive legacies for such events.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of position.
The  General  Assembly  has  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 12.
its 
Agenda item 14 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
Draft resolution (A/73/L.39)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Nigeria to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.39.
Mr. Muhammad Bande (Nigeria): We express our 
condolences at the demise of President George Herbert 
Walker Bush. May he rest in peace.
I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.39,  entitled  “International  Day  of  Education”. 
Nigeria is introducing this draft resolution, which calls 
for the observance of 24 January of every year as the 
International  Day  of  Education  under  the  auspices  of 
the United Nations, in order to fill in an observed lacuna 
in the collective global efforts to promote education as 
a critical aspect of development.
Education has been seen as fundamental to global 
development, especially within the context of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Many  United 
Nations documents have also underscored the centrality 
of education to development.
The  United  Nations  observes  many  days  devoted 
to  many  important  things,  from  bees  and  mountains 
to  cycling  and  others.  Clearly,  it  is  education  and 
knowledge that have led to the observance of such days. 
It is therefore important, even belatedly, to accord such 
a day to education itself. An intentional day of education 
marked by the international community would situation 
education  at  the  core  of  the  agenda  for  achieving  the 
2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
The  United  Nations  has  defined  education  as  not 
only a right but also a path towards human development. 
Its catalytic impact is concretely felt in the way that it 
opens doors for individuals, communities and nations, 
expands  human  freedom,  contributes  to  fostering 
democracy and economic growth, improves health and 
reduces poverty. Furthermore, education has contributed 
to  global  peace,  development,  innovation,  technology 
and agriculture. It has also helped in tackling climate 
change  and  in  improving  the  enjoyment  of  human 
rights.  In  what  matter  of  importance  is  education  not 
implicated? That being the case, the denial of education 
to any human being is a serious and permanent injury 
to that person. So is it with nations and societies.
Against 
that  backdrop,  Nigeria  calls  on 
the 
global  community  to  endorse  the  observance  of  the 
International  Day  of  Education.  Such  endorsement  is 
expected  to  increase  awareness,  enhance  momentum, 
support  innovative  efforts  in  transforming  education, 
celebrate  invention  and  innovation  brought  about  by 
knowledge  derived  from  education,  and  increase  the 
visibility of education as critical to human and societal 
development.  It  would  also  invite  the  global  audience 
to  the  continuous  task  of  enhancing  education  and 
broadening  educational  opportunities,  especially  for 
those on the verge of being left behind, such as women 
and  children  and  others  in  vulnerable  situations, 
including  people  with  disabilities  and 
in 
humanitarian emergency situations.
those 
The main objective of the draft resolution is not only 
to celebrate education in the form of a carnival but also 
18-40542
9/12
A/73/PV.44 
03/12/2018
to draw particular attention to the millions, especially 
girls and women, in many countries who are denied this 
supreme  good.  That  should  further  galvanize  support 
among all of us to commit to providing education for all.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  express  my  delegation’s 
profound  appreciation  to  all  the  delegations  that 
participated  actively  in  the  negotiation  of  the  draft 
resolution. Indeed, the various United Nations agencies 
whose technical skills on the subject, such as UNESCO, 
and  an  array  of  non-governmental  organizations 
helped  to  shape  the  draft  resolution.  Their  valuable 
contributions,  cooperation  and  support  helped  us  to 
arrive at an agreed text that reflects the consensus among 
members  of  the  General  Assembly.  My  appreciation 
also goes to those delegations — Algeria, Antigua and 
Barbuda, Chad, the Congo, Canada, Equatorial Guinea, 
Finland, France, Guinea, Ireland, Kenya, Luxembourg, 
Malta,  Qatar,  Singapore,  Suriname,  Tunisia,  Uganda 
and  Zimbabwe  —  that  have  already  co-sponsored  the 
draft resolution. In the same vein, I would like to invite 
those that have yet to co-sponsor it to do so, given the 
importance of this landmark draft resolution.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.39, entitled 
“International Day of Education”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
(Department 
Ms.  De  Miranda 
for  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I should like 
to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in the document, the following countries have become 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.39:  Afghanistan, 
Andorra, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, 
the  Central  African  Republic,  China,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Denmark,  Egypt,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Greece,  India, 
Indonesia,  Israel,  Lithuania,  Malawi,  the  Maldives, 
Malta,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Morocco,  Norway, 
Panama, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian 
Federation, San Marino, South Sudan, the Sudan, Togo, 
Turkey, Ukraine and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.39?
adopted 
Draft 
(resolution 73/25).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
delegations that wish to speak in explanation of position 
resolution  A/73/L.39  was 
following  the  adoption  of  the  resolution,  I  would  like 
to remind delegations that explanations are limited to 
10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Ms.  Schorr  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  believes  that  education  serves  as  a 
foundation for wide-reaching and long-lasting impact, 
particularly  for  the  most  vulnerable,  and  helps  to  put 
all our societies on a more sustainable path across all 
sectors  of  development.  We  are  pleased  to  announce 
that the United States Government has just released its 
first  strategy  on  international  basic  education,  which 
emphasizes  our  commitment  to  serving  young  people 
in  conflict  and  crisis,  investing  in  both  Government-
provided  and  non-State  schools,  and  focusing  on 
measurable learning outcomes for students.
We wish to call attention yet again to the important 
points of clarification on language related to the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  that  we  made  a 
few  minutes  ago  under  agenda  item  12  following  the 
adoption  of  resolution  73/24,  entitled  “Sport  as  an 
enabler of sustainable development”.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of position.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 14.
Agenda item 131
Investigation into the conditions and circumstances 
resulting in the tragic death of Dag Hammarskjöld 
and of the members of the party accompanying him
The Acting President: In accordance with rule 70 
of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, I now 
give the floor to Mr. Miguel Ferreira de Serpa Soares, 
Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and United 
Nations  Legal  Counsel,  to  provide  an  oral  briefing 
on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-General,  as  mandated  in 
paragraph 7 of resolution 72/252, of 24 December 2017.
Mr.  Ferreira  de  Serpa  Soares  (Office  of  Legal 
Affairs): The Secretary-General regrets that he cannot 
join the General Assembly today, as he is in Katowice 
attending  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It 
is therefore my pleasure to deliver this oral briefing on 
his behalf.
10/12 
18-40542
03/12/2018 
A/73/PV.44
In its resolution 72/252, the Assembly requested that 
the Secretary-General provide the Assembly, before the 
end of the main part of its seventy-third session, with 
an oral briefing on any progress made in relation to the 
investigation  into  the  conditions  and  circumstances 
resulting  in  the  tragic  death  of  former  Secretary-
General  Dag  Hammarskjöld  and  the  members  of  the 
party accompanying him.
As an initial matter, I wish to recall that, pursuant 
to resolution 72/252, in March, the Secretary-General 
reappointed Mr. Mohamed Chande Othman as Eminent 
Person to continue the Dag Hammarskjöld investigation. 
In  advance  of  the  oral  briefing,  the  Eminent  Person 
submitted  to  the  Secretary-General  an  interim  report 
on progress in relation to the investigation.
Upon 
the  Eminent  Person’s 
reappointment 
and  pursuant 
to  resolution  72/252,  Mr.  Othman 
initially  requested  nine  Member  States  to  appoint  an 
independent  and  high-ranking  official  to  conduct  a 
dedicated internal review of their intelligence, security 
and defence archives to identify information that might 
be of relevance to the Dag Hammarskjöld investigation. 
The  initial  nine  Member  States  to  which  requests 
were  made  were  Belgium,  Canada,  France,  Germany, 
the  Russian  Federation,  South  Africa,  Sweden,  the 
United Kingdom and the United States. Out of the nine 
Member States to which requests were made, Belgium, 
Canada,  France,  Germany,  the  Russian  Federation, 
Sweden and the United States took action in response 
to resolution 72/252 and the Eminent Person’s requests. 
Since  the  establishment  of  improved  cooperation 
between those Member States and the Eminent Person, 
new  information  has  been  received  from  certain 
independent  and  high-ranking  officials  appointed  by 
Member  States,  as  well  as  from  other  sources.  That 
information will be assessed by the Eminent Person for 
its probative value, in accordance with his mandate.
A  preliminary  review  indicates  that  the  new 
information, including that from intelligence, security 
and defence archives, is of probative value in respect of 
our  knowledge  of  the  context  and  surrounding  events 
of  1961,  the  presence  of  foreign  paramilitary  and 
intelligence  personnel  in  and  around  the  Congo  and 
the capacity of armed forces present in and around the 
region at that time.
In  recent  months,  the  Eminent  Person  has  made 
additional requests for the appointment of independent 
and  high-ranking  officials  to  another  five  Member 
States, namely, Angola, the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo, Portugal, Zambia and Zimbabwe. He has already 
received notification from the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  and  Zimbabwe  of  their  appointments  and 
continues to follow up on those additional requests.
The  Secretary-General  wishes  to  express  his 
gratitude to Member States for their cooperation with 
the  Eminent  Person  and  their  willingness  to  provide 
additional  information.  The  Secretary-General  also 
wishes  to  remind  Member  States  that  may  hold 
information  of  the  need  to  appoint  independent  and 
high-ranking  officials,  or  to  make  possible  a  full 
review  of  their  intelligence,  security  and  defence 
archives,  consistent  with  paragraph  5  of  resolution 
72/252. In particular, the Secretary-General notes that 
the Eminent Person calls on certain Member States to 
appoint such officials, and he is considering how he can 
assist in that process.
The  Eminent  Person  appointed  pursuant 
to 
resolution  71/260  noted  in  his  report  of  last  year  that 
“the burden of proof has now shifted to Member States” 
(A/71/1042, para. 21) to show that they have conducted a 
full review of all records and archives in their custody or 
possession, including those from intelligence, security 
and  defence  archives.  Indeed,  the  active  participation 
of Member States remains of the highest importance in 
our shared search for the truth on this matter.
The Secretary-General reiterates his full personal 
commitment  to  this  matter  and  restates  his  gratitude 
for  the  work  done  so  far  by  Member  States  and  the 
Eminent Person. The Secretary-General recalls that it 
is our solemn duty to pursue the full truth concerning 
the conditions and circumstances resulting in the tragic 
death of former Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld 
and the members of the party accompanying him.
The  Secretary-General  looks  forward  to  further 
cooperation  and  engagement  among  Member  States, 
the  Eminent  Person  and  the  Secretariat,  with  a  view 
to fully meeting the objectives set out by the General 
Assembly  in  resolution  72/252.  The  interim  report 
of  the  Eminent  Person  will  be  available  to  interested 
Member States following this briefing and, consistent 
with resolution 72/252, the Eminent Person will submit 
a final report to the Secretary-General in mid-2019.
Ms.  Schoulgin  Nyoni  (Sweden):  Let  me  first 
express my gratitude to the Secretary-General and the 
Under-Secretary-General  for  Legal  Affairs  and  Legal 
Counsel for their strong commitment to, and continued 
18-40542
11/12
A/73/PV.44 
03/12/2018
engagement  on,  this  matter.  The  Under-Secretary-
General’s  presence  here  today  signals  to  all  of  us  the 
determination  of  the  United  Nations  leadership  to 
see  this  issue  through  to  a  conclusion.  Let  me  also 
express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  the  Eminent  Person, 
Judge  Mohamed  Chande  Othman,  and  his  team  for 
their  tireless  work  on  this  matter,  and  to  all  Member 
States that have collaborated on, and contributed to, the 
investigation. Since 2015, Judge Othman has overseen 
major progress in the investigation. We strongly believe 
that we now have a unique opportunity to shed light on 
what happened in Ndola on 17 September 1961.
We  are  pleased  to  learn  today  about  the  progress 
made  in  the  investigation  since  the  reappointment  of 
Judge  Othman,  earlier  this  year.  We  look  forward  to 
receiving his interim report in order to study the details 
further. Let me particularly thank those Member States 
that  have  appointed  national  investigators  to  conduct 
dedicated reviews of their national archives to determine 
whether additional relevant information exists.
Earlier  this  year,  Sweden  appointed  Ambassador 
Mathias  Mossberg as  special  investigator  to  ensure 
that  all  relevant  information  in  the  Swedish  archives 
has reached the United Nations investigation. We have 
learned  from  the  briefing  today  how  important  the 
findings of the national investigators are to driving the 
investigation forward. Therefore, let me strongly urge 
those countries that have been asked to but have yet to 
appoint a national investigator to do so without further 
delay. That was called for in resolution 72/252, which 
was adopted by consensus 11 months ago in this very 
Hall.  The  value  of  independent  confirmation  that  all 
relevant  information  has  been  shared  with  the  United 
Nations investigation cannot be underestimated.
Judge  Othman  has  concluded  that  the  burden  of 
proof  has  shifted  to  Member  States  to  show  that  we 
have all conducted full reviews of records and archives, 
including  those  that  remain  classified.  We  must  all 
show, beyond any uncertainty, that we have done just 
that. We owe it to the families of those who perished 57 
years ago and to the Organization itself. We count on the 
full cooperation of all Member States. It is our shared 
responsibility to pursue the full truth in this matter.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this agenda item.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 131.
The meeting rose at 11.20 a.m.
12/12 
18-40542
