United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
16th plenary meeting
Monday, 1 October 2018, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.16
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mohamed 
(Sudan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Makei,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Belarus.
Mr. Makei (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): We live in 
paradoxical times, as optimism and pessimism equally 
characterize  our  lives.  We  recently  adopted  landmark 
documents, including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  the  international 
community  will  give  the  green  light  to  two  more 
instruments  that  inspire  particular  hope  for  changing 
the  situation  in  the  world  for  the  better,  namely, 
the  global  compacts  on  refugees  and  migrants.  The 
implementation of those unique initiatives is intended 
to transform human life on the globe in a drastic way 
so  as  to  ensure  that  globalization  is  equitable  and  a 
win-win situation, to eradicate poverty and to preserve 
the planet for future generations.
 (Ecuador)
as a unique platform for cooperation and as an effective 
multilateral instrument based on principles that ensure 
equal and respectful treatment of each and every country 
and its priorities and needs. In order to assist States in 
implementing the ambitious goals of the 2030 Agenda, 
we  need  effective  United  Nations  country  teams  on 
the ground that can effectively help countries achieve 
results  in  moving  towards  sustainable  development. 
That is where we see the essence of the reform of the 
United Nations development system.
Pursuing a globalization that will meet everyone’s 
interests  and  managing  that  globalization  for  the 
common good are key objectives in the modern world. 
Yet  we  can  see  that  there  are  evident  difficulties  in 
that area. Globalization is being accompanied by new 
geopolitical and geoeconomic lines and splits, not only 
in regional contexts, but also on a global scale. A kind 
of civilizational trap is emerging in which the demand 
for integration goes hand in hand with fragmentation, 
protectionism  and  even  confrontation.  Located  in  the 
heart of Europe, Belarus, on the one hand, is a member 
of the Eurasian Economic Union; on the other hand, it 
has an interest in pursuing deep economic cooperation 
with  the  European  Union.  Squeezed  between  two 
geopolitical power centres, we fully feel the interplay 
of geopolitics and geoeconomics.
The  search  for  answers  to  global  challenges  and 
the quest for ways to reach common objectives clearly 
show that no country can do it alone. There can be no 
individual  progress  without  collective  progress.  That 
is  why,  no  matter  how  justified  the  criticism  of  the 
United Nations may be, we still need the Organization 
The conflict in Ukraine and the rising tensions in the 
region, the sanctions and counter-sanctions, all weigh 
heavily on our country, if not directly, then indirectly, 
leading to substantial economic losses. As a medium-
sized country with one of the most open economies in 
the  world,  because  we  export  up  to  60  to  70  per  cent 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30214 (E)
*1830214*
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
of  our  gross  domestic  product,  Belarus  is  heavily 
dependent on external markets and international trade. 
That is one of the reasons why we consistently support 
building  a  fair,  predictable  and  non-discriminatory 
trade and economic architecture, both in Europe and in 
other regions — one that is aligned with the interests of 
all countries. We believe that that architecture should 
be underpinned by the implementation of multi-tiered 
integration projects.
Owing  to  its  geographical  location,  Belarus  is 
particularly  interested  in  closer  cooperation  between 
the Eurasian Economic Union and the European Union. 
Indeed, our western border remains the only economic 
border  on  the  huge  space  stretching  from  Lisbon  to 
Vladivostok,  and,  in  future,  perhaps  even  Shanghai. 
That  is  why  Belarus  has  consistently  advocated  for 
what  is  known  as  the  “integration  of  integrations” 
as  a  principle  of  cooperation  that  seeks  to  find 
optimal  ways  to  bring  together  economic  growth  and 
sustainable development.
Achieving  the  goals  of  the  global  2030  Agenda, 
with  its  overarching  promise  to  leave  no  one  behind, 
requires a particular focus on and international support 
for middle-income countries. Indeed, it is that group of 
countries that is home to 5 billion of the world’s total 
7  billion  people,  and  it  wields  the  greatest  potential 
for economic growth and sustainable development. On 
the other hand, it is within that group of countries that 
three quarters of the world’s poor reside. They are the 
most  vulnerable  to  such  factors  as  global  economic 
fluctuations,  the  consequences  of  regional  conflicts, 
natural  and  human-caused  catastrophes,  climate 
upheavals and epidemics — all of which threaten social 
and  economic  stability  and  exacerbate  inequality  at 
both the regional and the global levels.
In  that  context,  it  is  unjust  that  development 
progress continues to be gauged exclusively on the basis 
of per capita income. That criterion does not reflect the 
economic,  social  or  environmental  features  inherent 
in middle-income countries. For Belarus, it is evident 
that  the  multidimensional  nature  of  the  challenges 
faced  by  the  countries  in  that  category,  including  our 
country,  requires  the  application  of  multidimensional 
development  criteria  that  would  also  be  instrumental 
in  designing  the  Untied  Nations  system’s  result-
oriented strategies of cooperation with United Nations 
agencies.  Belarus  hopes  that  the  high-level  meeting 
to  comprehensively  discuss  those  issues,  which  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  plans  to  convene 
in  the  near  future,  will  provide  a  serious  impetus  for 
the  United  Nations  to  design  and  implement  specific 
measures in that area.
Another  multidimensional  issue  is  increasingly 
coming to the forefront. Humankind has entered a new 
era, as digital technologies are drastically transforming 
our  lives.  The  importance  of  the  digital  economy  for 
sustainable  and  comprehensive  economic  growth  is 
something  that  our  country  understands  very  well. 
In  March,  the  presidential  decree  entitled  “On  the 
development of the digital economy”, whose ambition 
it  is  to  turn  Belarus  into  an  information-technology 
country,  entered  into  force.  The  Belarus  High-Tech 
Park is developing rapidly and has shown record rates 
of growth, both in terms of the number of residents and 
in terms of its exports.
Digital  technologies  have  been  rightly  compared 
to rocket fuel for national economies. They enable the 
rapid  introduction  of  innovations  into  various  areas 
of  human  activities,  such  as  education,  the  consumer 
market and social cooperation. They stimulate business 
activity,  generate  revenue  and  create  jobs.  At  the 
same  time,  digitization  will  lead  to  drastic  changes 
in  the  labour  market,  doing  away,  in  the  process, 
with  a  whole  array  of  professions  that  will  no  longer 
be required in those new conditions, which will make 
many people employed in those sectors and industries 
extremely vulnerable.
Clearly,  Governments  in  developed  and  many 
developing  countries  will  soon  confront  a  number  of 
challenges, including how to adapt their own economies 
to the global digital transformation, how to effectively 
manage those processes at the national level and how 
to  cope  with  unintended  consequences  generated  by 
digitization.  In  that  regard,  Belarus  proposes  that  the 
United  Nations  engage  in  international  cooperation 
on  digitization  and  forward-looking 
technological 
planning  with  a  view 
to  facilitating  sustainable 
development.  The  purpose  of  such  cooperation  would 
be to assist developing countries in finding their own 
niche within the global digital economy and to increase 
the  benefits  of  digitization,  as  well  as  to  ensure  their 
equitable and fair distribution.
We  therefore  welcome  the  establishment  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Digital 
Cooperation,  and  we  hope  that  the  Panel  will  pay 
particular  attention  to  the  capacity-building  of  States 
in that area. It is absolutely clear that the strengthening 
2/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
of such capacities would be fruitless unless the effort 
is  predicated  on  the  values  of  sustainability  and 
prosperity for all. It is precisely those values that form 
the fundamental basis for the tasks required, which can 
be accomplished only if all countries work together.
Unfortunately,  those  values  are  often  fall  victim 
to  confrontational  thinking,  which  we  are  seeing 
more  frequently.  At  the  United  Nations  summit  for 
the  adoption  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda  in 
2015 (see A/70/PV.4 et seq.), the President of Belarus 
contended  that  sustainable  development  would  be 
unattainable  in  the  absence  of  lasting  peace  and 
security. That point is completely relevant today. True 
sustainability cannot be achieved outside a framework 
of security, the strength of which is being tested day in 
and day out.
One  shared  threat  that  we  face  is  terrorism. 
Combating  it  requires  a  comprehensive  approach 
whereby  all  countries  uphold 
the  principles  of 
international  law  and  refrain  from  the  use  of  double 
standards. We welcome the efforts of the United Nations 
leadership and stand willing to support them so as to 
mount a common front against terrorism. Our country’s 
contribution  to  the  global  processes  of  unification  in 
that area will be to convene a high-level international 
conference on preventing terrorism in the digital age, 
which  we  will  organize  jointly  with  the  Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe and which will 
be held in the Belarus capital, Minsk, in a week’s time, 
on 9 and 10 October.
Turning  to  the  overall  issue  of  international 
security,  it  is  evident  that  the  world  today  is  facing 
unprecedented challenges and threats. Confrontation in 
international  relations  increasingly  evokes  the  notion 
of a new cold war. More and more frequently we hear 
threats of the likelihood of the use of weapons of mass 
destruction, even if only as a result of an inadvertent 
conflict  or  an  accident.  That  points  to  a  crisis  in 
diplomacy  and  seriously  undermines  the  authority  of 
the United Nations as the key international organization 
tasked with preventing international conflicts.
The  degree  of  divergence  in  relations  and  views 
among  a  number  of  great  Powers  has  reached  a 
boiling  point.  When  it  comes  to  some  issues,  the 
situation  has  become  absurd.  The  principal  organs  of 
the United Nations — first and foremost the Security 
Council  —  are  turning  into  arenas  for  confrontation, 
self-assertion,  with 
political  grandstanding  and 
confrontation prevailing over dialogue and geopolitical 
ambitions taking the upper hand over common sense.
Like many in this Hall, I do not, regrettably, have 
recipes for how to fix the situation. But we are deeply 
convinced that there is no choice other than to forge a 
global order on the basis of shared values. It is patently 
clear, however, that it is impossible to arrive at shared 
values  by  means  of  coerced  democratization  and 
violence, which subvert legitimate authority. The bitter 
geopolitical experience of the past three decades tells 
us  that  we  should  all  take  a  common  interest  in  such 
values. We believe that the idea of stability could serve 
as a unifying paradigm. Bringing about stability means 
stopping the unwinding spiral of geopolitical chaos in 
its tracks. What needs to be done to achieve that?
First, stability implies that States retain their role 
as  the  primary  international  actors  and  that  State 
sovereignty  is  respected.  Contemporary  international 
law  is  predicated  on  those  key  principles,  which  are 
enshrined  in  basic  United  Nations  documents.  On 
the one hand, those texts reflect the right of States to 
choose their own form of political governance, as well 
as their own path and priorities of development, while, 
on  the  other  hand,  they  refer  to  the  non-interference 
of  countries  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  countries. 
Unfortunately,  adherence  to  those  principles  is  not 
universal  in  today’s  world.  The  politics  of  sanctions, 
economic  coercion  and  political  isolation  against  so-
called  rogue  regimes  are  frequently  found  in  many 
countries’  foreign  policy  toolkits.  We  have  all  borne 
witness to the decades-long policies of economic, trade 
and financial blockade against the freedom-loving State 
of Cuba, which not only run counter to United Nations 
resolutions,  but  take  a  heavy  toll  on  that  country’s 
social and economic development.
Secondly,  stability  is  also  about  strengthening 
the  State,  along  with  its  role  in  domestic  affairs.  We 
are  absolutely  convinced  that  only  strong  States  can 
provide security for their populations and ensure their 
well-being.  We  believe  that  people  living  in  places 
where real, firm authority is absent could testify to that 
truth  better  than  anyone  else.  Therefore,  if  we  really 
have a stake in ensuring global stability, we should seek 
not to undermine the State, but rather to strengthen it.
Thirdly and finally, stability very much relates to 
relations  among  the  great  Powers,  which  today  must, 
once  again,  learn  to  listen  to  one  another  and  hear 
each other’s arguments, in addition to being willing to 
18-30214
3/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
embrace  reasonable  compromises.  In  the  past,  it  was 
the  great  Powers  that  determined  the  destiny  of  the 
planet. Today, they no longer enjoy such an exclusive 
prerogative.  Still,  unity  among  the  great  Powers  on 
shared  values  and  their  leadership  in  advancing  them 
are a sine qua non for progress in many areas.
In that spirit, the President of Belarus, Alyaksandr 
initiative 
to  begin  a 
Lukashenko,  advanced  an 
comprehensive  dialogue  on 
international  security 
last  year.  Its  objective  is  to  overcome  the  existing 
disagreements  that  plague  inter-State  relations  in  the 
Euro-Atlantic  and  Eurasian  space.  We  are  convinced 
that  only  dialogue  can  help  resolve  the  deep  crisis  of 
trust in international relations and lead to mechanisms 
conducive 
to  peace, 
security  and 
sustainable development.
international 
Can one day or one meeting change history? The 
great  leader  of  India,  Jawaharlal  Nehru,  called  that 
moment a tryst with destiny. I think that our common 
task  is  to  increase  the  number  of  such  moments.  We 
must pool our efforts to find common solutions that are 
acceptable to everyone.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Eldirdiri Mohamed Ahmed, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
the Sudan.
Mr.  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  sincerely  congratulate  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on 
her  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its seventy-third session. On behalf of the Government 
and  the  people  of  the  Sudan,  I  wish  to  express  to  the 
President  and  Vice-Presidents  our  sincere  wishes 
for  every  success  in  their  tasks  and  for  a  successful 
session.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation 
and  gratitude  for  the  expertise  and  effectiveness  of 
the  President’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  in 
presiding over the seventy-second session.
This session is being held under the theme “Making 
the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful, 
equitable  and  sustainable  societies”.  That  reflects  the 
interest of this international Organization in achieving 
peace  and  sustainable  development  while  working  to 
ensure fundamental human rights, which are all basic 
pillars of the United Nations and exemplify the hopes 
and ambitions that we all aspire to achieve. The Sudan, 
along with the international community, looks forward 
to seeing the United Nations play its leadership role in 
the  promotion  of  balanced  development  in  peaceful, 
equitable  and  sustainable  societies.  In  order  for  our 
Organization  to  play  that  role  and  serve  humankind, 
as well as confront increasing challenges in all fields, 
the Organization should be reformed and become more 
effective and capable of confronting such challenges.
The  national  dialogue  initiative  led  in  2014  by 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Omer  Hassan  Ahmed  Al-Bashir, 
President of the Republic of the Sudan, resulted in the 
formation of the Government of National Reconciliation 
with the participation of political parties all across the 
political spectrum, including the armed movements in 
Darfur, which opted for the peaceful settlement in line 
with the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur.
That  was  positively  reflected  in  the  promotion  of 
peace and security throughout the country. It culminated 
with the successes of the first and second phases of the 
exit strategy with regard to the African Union-United 
Nations  Hybrid  Operation 
in  Darfur  (UNAMID) 
pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolutions  2363  (2017) 
and  2429  (2018).  That  is  yet  another  success  story 
involving the transition from peacekeeping to recovery, 
reconstruction and social reconciliation. In that regard, 
the Government of the Sudan would like to underscore 
its readiness to continue cooperating fully in order to 
facilitate the implementation of the third phase.
We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  partnership 
between the United Nations and the African Union (AU) 
in  Darfur.  We  hope  that  the  United  Nations,  donors, 
and  sisterly  and  friendly  countries  will  participate 
meaningfully  in  the  pledging  conference  due  to  be 
held  shortly  in  order  to  promote  stability  and  finance 
various  recovery,  reconstruction  and  development 
projects, as well as peacebuilding and sustainable peace 
programmes in Darfur during the transitional period in 
preparation for the exit of UNAMID in 2020.
It  is  vital  to  highlight  the  successes  and  tangible 
results  achieved  as  a  result  of  the  national  weapons- 
collection  campaign.  That  was  the  result  of  the 
social  sector’s  cooperation  with  the  Government  in 
collaboration  with  partners,  notably  UNAMID.  It  led 
to  a  reduction  in  crime  rates,  as  well  as  to  reduced 
drug and human trafficking. It also led to the greater 
movement  of  citizens  and  their  repatriation  aimed  at 
undertaking various economic activities.
The  Government  of 
that 
negotiations are the only path leading to peace. It must, 
the  Sudan  believes 
4/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
therefore,  extend  a  helping  hand  to  the  armed  groups 
in  South  Kordofan  and  Blue  Nile,  and  participate 
in  all  rounds  of  negotiations  in  various  forums.  In 
order  for  the  Government  to  create  an  environment 
conducive to such negotiations, it has committed itself 
to  the  unilateral  ceasefire  in  all  theatres  of  operation 
for  more  than  two  years.  It  is  worth  mentioning  that 
the  Government  of  the  Sudan  launched  a  number  of 
initiatives  to  establish  humanitarian  corridors  and  to 
ensure  the  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance  to  the 
South Kordofan and Blue Nile regions, but certain rebel 
movements in Blue Nile areas still refuse to participate 
in such initiatives. The Government of the Sudan has 
agreed  that  the  United  Nations  would  shoulder  the 
task of delivering humanitarian assistance from within 
the country.
The Sudanese Government is making tireless efforts 
to  ensure  economic  reforms,  regulate  fiscal  policies 
and set transitional strategic policies aimed at reducing 
poverty  and  achieving 
sustainable  development 
goals,  as  well  as  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  Despite  those  wise  policies  adopted  by 
the  Government  in  order  to  mobilize  local  resources, 
promote the role of the private sector and govern fiscal 
management,  the  unilateral  sanctions  imposed  on  my 
country  and  the  impact  of  accumulated  foreign  debt 
continue to undermine our development and our ability 
to engage in the necessary development activities. They 
have also reduced our ability to attract essential foreign 
financing, as we have not been permitted to have any 
form of debt exemption under the Heavily Indebted Poor 
Countries initiative, despite the fact that the Sudan has 
met all of the technical preconditions. We would also 
like  to  recall  that  the  Sudan  has  the  potential  to  help 
achieve food security in Africa and the Arab region, so 
it should be supported in that vital field.
appreciates 
The  Sudan 
the  United  States 
Administration’s  decision  to  lift  the  trade  embargo 
imposed  on  my  country  in  October  2017.  We  look 
forward to having the Sudan removed from the United 
States list of countries accused of sponsoring terrorism. 
We also look forward to positive partnerships in future, 
especially  now  that  we  are  quite  active  at  both  the 
regional and the international levels in the fight against 
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. We refer 
in particular to the report issued by the United States 
State  Department  in  September,  which  supported 
our approach.
the 
The  Sudan  has  been  an  honest  defender  of  the 
principles  of  justice  and  international  cooperation,  as 
well  as  the  principle  of  fighting  impunity.  However, 
the  selective  approach  adopted  by  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  has  caused  that  court  to  lose 
the  impartiality  of  judicial  bodies  and  has  led  to  the 
disappointment  of 
international  community, 
especially among African countries. The position of the 
Sudan towards the ICC is therefore aligned with many 
decisions  adopted  by  the  AU,  underscoring  our  view 
that the ICC is nothing but a political tool that dons the 
mantle of law in order to achieve political objectives that 
seek to break the will of peoples, particularly African 
peoples.  The  Sudan  therefore  calls  for  African  voices 
to  be  heeded.  It  warns  against  the  politicization  and 
abuse of the United Nations in the name of international 
justice  based  on  the  Relationship  Agreement  signed 
between the United Nations and the ICC, which has a 
negative  influence  on  the  United  Nations,  pushing  it 
into the realm of international political conflicts.
My  Government  has  made  concerted  efforts  to 
host a large number of refugees, which currently stands 
at  more  than  3  million.  We  provide  them  with  the 
necessary  assistance,  which  covers  more  than  70  per 
cent of their needs, while the international community 
meets less than 30 per cent of those needs. That places 
huge pressure on the communities providing assistance 
to refugees, especially in the light of the harsh economic 
circumstances that my country faces. Given the fact that 
those circumstances will not improve in the near future, 
the  influx  of  refugees  into  my  country  will  continue 
to be a burden. I urge the international community to 
accelerate  the  provision  of  the  necessary  assistance 
to my country so that it can fulfil its obligations with 
respect to that humanitarian situation.
The  Government  of  my  country  has  made 
significant  progress  in  the  field  of  promoting  human 
rights in the Sudan. That was recognized by the Human 
Rights  Council  in  its  decision  issued  in  Geneva  last 
week, which underlined our positive cooperation with 
the Council’s mechanisms.
My Government has made great efforts to combat 
human  trafficking  and  illegal  migration,  as  well  as 
transnational  crime,  in  order  to  strengthen  peace  and 
stability.  Thanks  to  the  geographic  location  of  the 
Sudan  in  the  heart  of  Africa,  that  can  be  achieved  at 
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  Those 
efforts culminated in the joint initiative by the Horn of 
Africa and the European Union countries to address the 
18-30214
5/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
root causes and consequences of illegitimate migration 
in the Horn of Africa region, known as the Khartoum 
Process.  We  have  high  hopes  that  the  international 
community  will  reach  consensus  and  recognize  the 
leadership of and role played by the Sudan in the efforts 
to combat migration-related problems.
The Sudan reaffirms its position, which is to reject 
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including 
State  terrorism,  as  a  means  of  achieving  political 
objectives.  The  Sudan  has  made  clear  that  position 
by  committing  to  and  ratifying  all  relevant  regional 
and  international  conventions.  We  have  long  been  an 
effective  member  of  the  international  community,  at 
the international, regional and bilateral levels. We have 
explicitly  contributed  to  combating  that  phenomenon 
and  have  prevented  many  terrorist  operations,  thanks 
to the exchange of information and good institutional 
relations that link the Sudan with its partners, be they 
regional, international or bilateral.
its  cooperation 
In  that  context,  my  delegation  expresses  great 
concern over the growing phenomenon of Islamophobia, 
which  takes  various  forms.  We  strongly  condemn 
the  acts  carried  out  on  that  basis,  which  have  led  to 
discrimination,  hatred  and  an  environment  that  is 
conducive to violence. We stress that terrorism should 
not  be  linked  to  any  religion,  culture  or  civilization. 
The  Sudan  underscores 
the 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy in a comprehensive, sustained and 
consistent manner. We also underline the need to adopt 
an  inclusive  approach  to  the  fight  against  terrorism 
in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations,  taking  into 
consideration  the  various  cultural,  social,  economic 
and  political  aspects  of  that  phenomenon.  The  means 
to  accomplish  those  ends  include  the  eradication  of 
poverty  and  support  for  development  in  developing 
nations,  especially  in  Africa,  and  the  promotion  of 
dialogue between the North and the South.
in 
The  Sudan  pays  great  attention  to  local,  regional 
and  international  environmental  issues.  We  reaffirm 
our commitment to all of the conventions relating to the 
environment, given the negative environmental impact 
on  wide  swathes  of  the  Sudan  as  a  result  of  drought, 
desertification,  the  lack  of  rainfall  and  flooding. 
That  was  quite  clear  in  the  conflict  in  Darfur,  which 
started  with  disputes  between  herders  and  farmers 
caused  by  the  drought  that  affected  the  region.  It 
was  a  clear  demonstration  of  the  direct  link  between 
drought,  desertification,  environmental  degradation 
and  conflicts,  especially  in  Africa.  We  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  support  the  national  and 
regional initiatives in that field, such as the Great Green 
Wall for the Sahara and the Sahel Initiative.
With  regard  to  the  issue  of  water,  my  country 
supports a balanced and comprehensive approach to the 
management  of  water  resources  with  other  countries 
in  the  Nile  Basin  by  promoting  coordination  and 
cooperation  between  those  countries.  The  aim  is  to 
achieve the desired goals through various mechanisms, 
including the Nile Basin Initiative. In that context, the 
Sudan will continue its endeavours with Egypt, Ethiopia 
and the remaining Nile Basin countries, so that we can 
settle all contentious issues related to the Nile waters.
Once  again,  my  country’s  delegation  stresses  our 
full commitment to all of the international treaties and 
conventions relevant to the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security  and  demilitarization,  foremost 
among  them  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons, to which the Sudan acceded in 1973, 
as well as the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
and the African Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty, or 
Pelindaba Treaty. The Sudan also plays a recognizedrole 
in promoting cooperation among African countries in the 
implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.
We  stress  that  strengthening  the  values  of  peace, 
security and stability in the world cannot be achieved 
in the presence of weapons of mass destruction. We are 
fully committed to supporting all international efforts 
aimed  at  eliminating  such  weapons.  The  Sudan  pays 
particular  attention  to  small  arms  and  light  weapons, 
since  they  have  a  direct  relationship  to  transnational 
organized  crime,  terrorism  and  drug  trafficking.  To 
that  end,  we  have  been  making  multifaceted  efforts 
within  the  African  Union,  the  League  of  Arab  States 
and  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development 
(IGAD), as well as the Community of Sahelo-Saharan 
States  and  the  International  Conference  on  the  Great 
Lakes  Region,  in  addition  to  our  bilateral  efforts 
with  neighbouring  countries  aimed  at  ensuring  the 
demarcation of our borders with full control over them 
and at setting up customs checkpoints.
My  country’s  delegation  would  like  to  express 
our  sincere  congratulations  to  the  Government  and 
the  brotherly  people  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan 
on  the  progress  achieved  in  reviving  the  Agreement 
on  the  Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of 
South  Sudan,  which  was  reached  in  Addis  Ababa 
6/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
on  12  September.  That  Agreement  was  signed  by  all 
parties to the conflict, as well as by stakeholders from 
civil-society  organizations,  young  people,  religious 
leaders and other important members of South Sudan 
society. That was the result of negotiations undertaken 
in Khartoum from 25 June to 28 September, thanks to 
an initiative launched by His Excellency the President 
of the Sudan and a mandate from IGAD.
In  that  vein,  the  Khartoum  Declaration  on  good 
intentions and the ceasefire in South Sudan was signed 
on 26 July, which was followed by the engagement of 
all  parties  to  the  conflict  in  the  negotiation  process. 
After that, the details were initialled, the last initialling 
of which took place on 30 August, thanks to the sincere 
efforts  made  by  the  Sudanese  mediation  team  to 
promote the resolution of African conflicts within the 
African framework. We also highly appreciate the great 
efforts  made  by  IGAD  and  the  leaders  of  its  member 
countries,  for  they  have  contributed  effectively  to  the 
achievements  realized.  We  would  like  to  highlight 
the  efforts  made  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Ethiopia 
and Head of IGAD, His Excellency Mr. Abiy Ahmed; 
the  President  of  Uganda,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Yoweri 
Museveni; and the President of Kenya, His Excellency 
Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta.  Their  concerted  efforts  were 
in  line  with  those  of  our  President,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Omar al-Bashir, all of which led to the possibility 
of bringing peace to South Sudan.
We would also like to thank the Troika countries —
he United States, the United Kingdom and the Kingdom 
of Norway — for their support for IGAD. They are and 
we  thank  them  for  their  moral  and  material  support 
during  the  negotiation  process.  We  also  thank  the 
United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and  the  European 
Union for their support during that phase.
If there is one country on Earth capable of speaking 
of  the  sacrifices  that  it  has  made  for  South  Sudan,  it 
would be my country, the Sudan. Had the Republic of 
Sudan not agreed to voluntarily let go of a quarter of 
its  territory,  a  third  of  its  people  and  three  quarters 
of  its  petroleum  resources,  the  State  of  South  Sudan 
would not have been established. The Republic of the 
Sudan granted the people of South Sudan the right to 
self-determination  in  a  move  unprecedented  move  on 
the entire African continent. The only reason was the 
desire  to  bring  peace  and  stability  to  the  Sudan  and 
South Sudan. After such massive sacrifices for peace, 
the  Sudan  cannot  afford  to  lose  peace  once  again  in 
either part of the Sudan, that is to say, the Republic of 
the Sudan or the Republic of South Sudan.
I  would  say  to  those  who  doubt  the  capacities  of 
the various leaders in the Republic of South Sudan to 
work  together  or  the  intentions  of  the  region’s  States 
to  stay  united  in  their  support  for  South  Sudan  that 
we all have no choice but to give peace a chance. We 
have  no  hope  for  a  bright  future  for  South  Sudan  in 
particular and the region in general without supporting 
the  implementation  of  the  peace  agreement  that  has 
been reached.
As  for  the  donor  countries  in  particular,  I  would 
say that the contributions they made in the past will not 
be in vain, except if the current opportunity to achieve 
sustainable peace in South Sudan is lost. I therefore call 
on those countries to continue without hesitation their 
support for South Sudan, because it is in dire need of 
such assistance and contributions.
During  their  previous  summit,  held  in  Addis 
Ababa, the countries of the region called on the Security 
Council to consider expanding the regional protection 
force in South Sudan from 4,000 to 8,000 soldiers and 
to ensure that the Sudan, Uganda, Djibouti and Somalia 
contribute  to  that  force.  We  look  forward  to  a  quick 
response to that appeal so that we can fulfil our huge 
responsibilities as guarantors of peace in South Sudan.
The separation of South Sudan from the Sudan was 
not an easy or smooth process, and many issues remain 
unresolved  between  the  two  neighbouring  countries. 
However,  the  new  environment  that  has  resulted 
from the mediation initiative among the parties in the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan  launched  by  the  President 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan,  Omar  Al-Bashir,  has 
led  to  a  genuine  change  in  the  relations  between  the 
two  brotherly  countries.  Within  just  41  days  of  that 
initiative,  success  was  achieved  on  several  issues 
that  had  remained  unresolved  for  years.  That  was 
possible owing to the considerable trust on the part of 
President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar of South Sudan 
in  President  Omar  Al-Bashir  of  the  Sudan  and  the 
Sudanese mediator.
The current circumstances are therefore conducive 
to the resolution of all pending issues between the two 
countries, at the top of which is the Abyei issue. The 
two parties have begun informal consultations aimed at 
promoting trust and closing the chapter of controversy 
forever.  The  Sudan  welcomes  the  address  to  the 
Assembly by the First Vice-President of the Republic of 
18-30214
7/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
South Sudan, Mr. Taban Deng Gai, in which he stressed 
his willingness to contribute positively to the resolution 
of the problems of South Kordofan and Blue Nile.
One  of  the  greatest  principles  established  by  this 
international  Organization  is  that  all  States,  big  and 
small, have the right to be able to live in peace in their 
regional environment. That right applies to the Republic 
of  the  Sudan  and  to  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  as 
well as to all other States in our region. We call upon 
the international community to work with all of us in 
order to apply that great United Nations principle and 
make it a tangible reality.
The  Sudan  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  joint 
initiative of the African Union and the United Nations 
aimed  at  bringing  peace  and  stability  to  the  Central 
African  Republic.  In  that  regard,  we  commend  the 
tireless  efforts  made  by  the  President  of  the  Central 
African Republic, Mr. Faustin Archange Touadera. We 
wish him every success.
The  Sudan  has  hosted  many  parties  and  armed 
movements  from  Central  Africa  in  order  to  mediate 
between  them  and  help  reach  an  agreement  to  put 
an  end  to  the  division  and  fighting  in  the  Central 
African  Republic.  We  will  continue  along  that  path 
under the umbrella of the African Initiative for Peace 
and  Reconciliation  in  the  Central  African  Republic 
and  in  line  with  the  announcement  of  Mr.  Moussa 
Faki  Mahamat,  Chairperson  of  the  African  Union 
Commission,  during  the  high-level  meeting  on  the 
Central  African  Republic,  which  was  held  during  the 
current session of the General Assembly.
The  Sudan  underscores  its  principled  position 
on  the  Palestinian  question.  We  condemn  any  form 
of  aggression  against  the  religious  sites  in  Palestine, 
notably Al-Quds Al-Sharif. We stress our support for 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  which  seeks  to  establish  a 
Palestinian State within its 1967 borders and with East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  as  well  as  the  withdrawal  of 
Israel from the occupied Arab territories.
My delegation also condemns the gross violations of 
human rights committed against the minority Rohingya 
Muslims  in  Myanmar,  as  manifested  in  the  killing  of 
people, the demolition of homes and mosques, and the 
forced displacement of thousands of people from their 
villages.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
take practical steps to end such violations and bring the 
perpetrators to account.
The Sudan reiterates its position in support of the 
constitutional legitimacy of brotherly Yemen. We call 
on  all  political  stakeholders  to  engage  in  the  political 
process,  renounce  their  infighting  and  refrain    from  
violence, so that they can reach a political solution in 
order  to  stop  the  bloodshed  decimating  the  Yemeni 
people,  in  line  with  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
Initiative,  the  outcomes  of  the  National  Dialogue 
Conference and the Security Council resolutions.
The  Sudan  also  reiterates  its  keen  interest  in 
ensuring the territorial integrity of Syria. We support 
all efforts to overcome the current crisis in Syria, which 
is becoming more complex each day.
Once again, the Sudan underlines the importance 
of  bringing  about  stability  in  brotherly  Somalia.  We 
call  on  the  international  community  to  provide  all 
necessary  support  to  the  Government  and  the  people 
of  Somalia  so  that  they  can  overcome  the  challenges 
facing their country.
The  delegation  of  my  country  welcomes  the 
breakthrough  achieved  in  the  relations  between  the 
two sisterly neighbours Ethiopia and Eritrea. We look 
forward to the strengthening of their bilateral relations, 
which bodes well for their Governments and peoples, as 
well as for the countries of the wider region.
With regard to the situation in Libya, the Sudan’s 
position has been always to support the brotherly Libyan 
people and to strive with the international community 
to ensure the success of the various initiatives that seek 
to  bring  security  and  stability  to  Libya,  particularly 
through 
the  Skhirat  Political  Agreement,  which 
represents the main political pillar in that country. We 
also  reject  any  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
Libya, given that such action would have catastrophic 
repercussions  on  the  stability  and  security  of  the 
country and the wider region. In that context, the Sudan 
expresses  its  readiness  to  host  the  upcoming  meeting 
of  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  countries 
neighbouring Libya.
We  once  again  express  our  solidarity  with  and 
support  for  the  reform  agenda  that  the  Secretary-
General  is  striving  to  implement  and  especially  the 
efforts made to strengthen the General Assembly and 
its  various  subsidiary  organs.  The  General  Assembly 
is considered the largest and most representative body 
of  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and  plays 
an  important  role  in  issues  relating  to  international 
peace and security. Those reforms will ensure that the 
8/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
General Assembly is able to meet the requirements of 
the  twenty-first  century  and  address  the  continuing 
challenges facing us.
reiterates 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
its 
commitment  to  international  multilateralism  under 
the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations.  We  stress  the 
noble  purposes  that  have  been  the  building  blocks  of 
the  United  Nations,  particularly  those  pertaining  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
achieving  sustainable  development  and  promoting 
human rights through an approach that is underpinned 
by  international  cooperation  and  dialogue,  with  a 
view to enhancing friendly international relations and 
settling conflicts through peaceful means.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Ronaldo  Moncada 
Colindres, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic 
of Nicaragua.
Mr.  Moncada  Colindres  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): I bring a message of peace from the people of 
Nicaragua and from President and Commander Daniel 
Ortega and Vice-President Rosario Murillo.
Since  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  three  years  ago,  we  have 
continued  to  witness  a  world  in  crisis,  the  result  of 
unbridled  capitalism,  interference  in  the  affairs  of 
others  and  the  violation  of  international  law  and  the 
sovereignty  of  our  peoples  through  the  use  of  force, 
as well as attempts at coups d’état and destabilization 
efforts  that  threaten  our  prospects  for  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  set  out  in  the  2030 
Agenda.  Nicaragua  has  resisted  attempts  at  regime 
change.  Our  country  has  once  again  prevailed  and 
achieved  peace,  fraternal  coexistence  and  a  gradual 
return to normal daily life. The attempted coup d’état 
that we overcame in Nicaragua was the result of such 
interventionism,  and  its  legacy  has  entailed  grave 
consequences  for  us,  including  economic  damage, 
death, destruction and terrorism disguised as peaceful 
protest, characterized by the savage killing of citizens 
and policemen, the setting on fire of public and private 
property,  assaults,  rights  violations,  extortion,  torture 
and cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment.
In  the  region,  Nicaragua  is  widely  recognized 
as  an  agent  of  regional  stability,  peace  and  security 
with 
in 
economic,  political  and  social  development,  poverty 
reduction,  gender  equality  and  public  security,  all 
its  exemplary  benchmark  achievements 
of  which  are  included  in  the  State  policies  that  we 
continue to develop and that insulate our country from 
international organized crime, local and transnational 
gangs,  terrorism  and  narcoactivity.  The  Government 
and  the  people  of  Nicaragua  are  staunch  defenders 
of  the  principles  of  independence  and  sovereignty,  as 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We 
therefore demand that an end be put to all interventionist 
policies,  which  violate  international  law,  including 
interventionist  activities  in  Nicaragua  and  brotherly 
nations of the Americas and the world.
The  Government  and  the  people  of  Nicaragua 
have  worked  persistently  to  meet  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. As of April our country recorded 
sustained  annual  growth  of  approximately  4.7  per 
cent.  Our  socioeconomic  projects  and  programmes 
to eradicate overall poverty at the national level have 
succeeded  in  decreasing  poverty  from  42.5  per  cent 
in  2009  to  24.9  per  cent  in  2016.  Extreme  poverty 
decreased  from  14.6  per  cent  in  2009  to  6.9  per  cent 
in  2016.  Today,  we  are  once  again  facing  the  threat 
of  the  United  States,  which  seeks  to  halt  the  social, 
economic and cultural development of our people. We 
condemn such interventionism, which is manifested in 
the introduction of a law in the United States Congress 
requiring  international  financial  institutions  to  refuse 
to issue loans to Nicaragua.
For Nicaragua, contributing to international peace 
is  synonymous  with  achieving  general  and  complete 
nuclear  disarmament.  We  have  therefore  signed  and 
ratified the recent Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons  and  call  on  countries  to  ratify  that  historic 
Treaty. The Government of the Republic of Nicaragua 
has  supported  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula,  based  on  dialogue  and  communication 
between  the  authorities  of  both  parties.  We  welcome 
the  rapprochement  between  the  two  Koreas  and  the 
holding of the third inter-Korean summit, as well as the 
Joint Declaration that the two Korean leaders agreed on 
in September in Pyongyang and which is seen as a great 
stride forward in alleviating tensions and meaningfully 
obviating  the  danger  of  war  on  the  entire  peninsula. 
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Nicaragua  hopes 
that nuclear weapons will be dismantled in a complete, 
verifiable  and 
the 
countries  involved  will  cooperate  and  consequently 
ensure firm and lasting peace on the Korean peninsula.
The  Government  of  Nicaragua  supports  nuclear 
negotiations  between  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
irreversible  manner,  and 
that 
18-30214
9/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
and  the  E3/EU+3,  that  is  China,  France,  Germany, 
the  Russian  Federation,  the  United  Kingdom  and  the 
United  States,  along  with  the  High  Representative  of 
the  European  Union  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Security 
Policy,  which  resulted  in  the  finalization  of  the  Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on  14  July  2015.  We 
stress  that  that  agreement  demonstrates  that  dialogue 
and  diplomacy  are  the  most  appropriate  means  for 
solving such problems and are the essential components 
that enable multilateralism to work.
Nicaragua condemns the criminal blockade against 
the sisterly Republic of Cuba and all of the associated 
extraterritorial measures and ramifications. Nicaragua 
rejects  all  coercive  economic  measures  that  seek  to 
bend the will and spirit of freedom and sovereignty of 
peoples and Governments. Our country finds the use of 
unilateral coercive economic measures to be a political 
and  selective  instrument  aimed  at  trying  to  illegally 
change Governments, and it is therefore unacceptable. 
This  year  we  will  once  again  vote  against  the  unjust 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States.  Our  sisterly 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  the  Bolivarian 
People  and  the  legitimate  Government  of  President 
Nicolás Maduro Moros can count on our unconditional 
solidarity.  We  have  condemned  the  assassination 
attempt  against  President  Nicolás  Maduro  Moros  and 
the threat of military intervention against the Bolivarian 
people and Republic of Venezuela.
We  must  continue  to  promote  decolonization  in 
the  world,  and  we  therefore  support  the  Palestinian, 
Sahrawi  and  Puerto  Rican  peoples  and  the  Argentine 
Malvinas  Islands.  Nicaragua  advocates  for  the  two-
State solution, that is,  the State of Israel and the State 
of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  the  Palestinian 
capital,  within  the  1967  borders,   living  in  peace  and 
harmony. We reiterate our complete solidarity with the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Syria  in  their  struggle 
against international terrorism and in defence of their 
sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Humankind  continues  to  seek  peace.  Seventy-
three  years  after  its  founding,  the  Organization  has 
not  yet  managed  to  fully  meet  the  goals  set  out  with 
regard  to  peace.  Given  such  a  regrettable  state  of 
affairs,  the  call  for  reinventing  the  United  Nations, 
as  former  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Nicaragua, 
Father Miguel D’Escoto Brockmann, proposed during 
his  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/63/
PV.1), is more urgent than ever. To that end, we must 
promote  the  transformation  needed  to  ensure  that  the 
Organization  serves  the  interests  of  every  one  of  its 
Members  and  all  of  humankind.  We  underscore  that 
at  the  sixty-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
2008,  during  his  presidency,  the  late  Father  Miguel 
D’Escoto  Brockmann,  whom  we  fittingly  referred  to 
as  the  Chancellor  of  Dignity  of  Nicaragua,  planned 
and  fought,  with  those  ideas  in  mind,  wishing  to 
fulfil  Nicaragua’s  mandate  to  lay  the  groundwork  for 
discussions  on  such  a  transformation,  by  introducing 
a proposal for a “universal declaration of the common 
good of the Earth and humanity” (A/63/PV.105, p.32), 
as the first indispensable step towards reinventing the 
United Nations.
We  need  urgent  action 
to  combat  climate 
change.  The  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  remains  in  force,  and  those  primarily 
responsible  for  the  largest  volume  of  the  emissions, 
destruction, degradation and imbalances in nature must 
recognize the losses and damages suffered by the rest of 
us and help with the recovery of Mother Earth and the 
peoples of the world. In order to meet the Sustainable 
Development  Goals,  we  need  to  repeal  the  unilateral 
and coercive measures that are impeding our countries’ 
development  programmes  and  which  are  in  violation 
of international law. We must work to achieve justice, 
peace, respect, dialogue and sovereign security in the 
world.  To  that  end,  we  must  encourage  making  the 
changes necessary so that the Organization can serve 
the interests of all its Members.
Our  Government  and  our  people  advocate  for 
a  world  with  values,  a  world  in  which  we,  as  human 
beings, can rely on what is best within us to foster the 
best  possible  conditions  for  creating  fair,  sustainable, 
equitable,  secure  and  sovereign  development  based 
on  full  access  and  sharing  by  every  man  and  woman 
of  scientific  and 
technological  advances  relating 
to  all  aspects  of  our  lives.  We  once  again  entreat 
the  international  community  and  hope  that,  at  this 
seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
commitment that we are undertaking will result in an 
open process marked by profound reflection aimed at 
achieving  the  required  transformation  for  reinventing 
and democratizing the United Nations.
In  conclusion,  we  stress  our  commitment  to 
continuing to fight for peace — a priority for the world 
and our people — and to ensuring that conflicts arising 
in various parts of the world can be overcome through 
dialogue and negotiations and that, above all, peoples 
and countries can be free of fear from the use or threat 
10/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
of the use of force, a threat that the great Powers seek to 
impose on States that are small in population. In fact, 
they may be small in terms of development, but they are 
great in terms of their values and history.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Archbishop  Paul  Richard  Gallagher,  Secretary  for 
Relations with States of the Holy See.
Archbishop Gallagher (Holy See): At the outset, 
I wish to extend the cordial greetings of His Holiness, 
Pope  Francis,  to  the  President  and  to  all  of  the 
delegations  participating  in  this  seventy-third  session 
of the General Assembly.
As 
the 
international  community  marks 
the 
seventieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  on  10  December 
1948,  it  is  worthwhile  to  recall  and  re-emphasize  its 
assertion that,
“[The]  recognition  of  the  inherent  dignity  and  of 
the equal and inalienable rights of all members of 
the  human  family  is  the  foundation  of  freedom, 
justice and peace in the world.”
The  recognition  of  the  inherent  dignity  of  all  human 
beings is the bedrock on which the pillars of the United 
Nations  are  grounded.  It  is  the  ultimate  principle 
behind the founders’ determination to save succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war. It undergirds all 
fundamental  human  rights.  It  drives  the  search  for 
justice  and  respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from 
treaties and other appropriate sources of international 
law,  because  so  many  abuses  of  human  dignity  begin 
with a failure to uphold laws that respect human rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms.  It  spurs  individuals  and 
societies to achieve social progress and better standards 
of  life  in  greater  freedom  through  what  the  Holy  See 
calls “integral human development”.
To  speak  of  human  dignity  70  years  after  the 
adoption of the Universal Declaration means, above all, 
to restate the centrality and intrinsic worth of the human 
person and to reaffirm the inherent rights shared by all 
men and women, no matter how young or old, rich or 
poor, strong or vulnerable, healthy or sick, wanted or 
undesired,  economically  productive  or  incapacitated, 
or  politically  influential  or  insignificant.  The  world 
needs, in fact, to regain an all-encompassing vision of 
the  human  person,  human  dignity  and  human  rights, 
as any reductive vision of the human person inevitably 
dehumanizes  and  effectively  excludes  certain  persons 
from membership in the human race, opening the way 
to inequality, injustice and injury.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal 
Declaration is also a favourable occasion on which to 
renew  our  shared  commitment,  not  just  in  words,  but 
also  in  practice  to  those  rights  that  flow  from  every 
person’s inherent dignity. The report of the Secretary-
General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/73/1) 
highlights  that  fact.  Although  there  has  been  much 
progress made in the advancement of human rights at 
the global level, challenges to the protection of human 
rights are a global phenomenon. While it is heartening 
to  read  of  the  positive  developments  in  the  area  of 
human rights accomplished in the past seven decades, 
it is sobering to note, however, that one in 10 children 
continues to be subjected to child labour, one in three 
people  currently  in  detention  is  held  without  trial, 
29 per cent of children under the age of 5 do not have 
birth registration and 250 million women were married 
when under the age of 15.
It is scandalous to see that human rights continue to 
be violated today, seven decades after the adoption of 
the Universal Declaration. The Declaration affirms that 
everyone  has  the  right  to  life,  liberty  and  security  of 
person, and yet in many places those rights are not only 
not respected but their violations are even celebrated. 
Article 4 states that “[n]o one shall be held in slavery or 
servitude”, yet tens of millions of people are ensnared 
by various forms of so-called modern slavery. Article 18 
upholds the right to freedom of thought, conscience and 
religion and the right to change one’s religion or belief, 
and  the  freedom  to  manifest,  alone  or  in  community 
with others, in public or private, that religion or belief 
in teaching, practice, worship and observance. Yet those 
rights  are  infringed  upon,  restricted  or  denied.  In  so 
many places, changing one’s religion or even practising 
one’s faith can lead to a death sentence or can serve as 
a reason to be discriminated against.
Earlier  this  year,  in  his  address  to  the  diplomatic 
corps  accredited  to  the  Holy  See,  Pope  Francis  noted 
some trends that, in the very name of the promotion of 
human  rights,  are  in  fact  undermining  the  enjoyment 
of  the  rights  enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights.  He  noted  that,  “debatable  notions 
of  human  rights  have  been  advanced  that  are  at  odds 
with  the  culture  of  many  countries”.  He  cautioned 
that  that  trend  portends  the  “risk  that,  in  the  very 
name of human rights, we will see the rise of modern 
forms  of  ideological  colonization  by  the  stronger  and 
18-30214
11/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
the  wealthier  to  the  detriment  of  the  poorer  and  the 
most vulnerable”.
The  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal 
Declaration  affords  the  international  community  an 
occasion  to  recognize  the  damage  that  ideological 
interpretations or novel rights claims do, in principle and 
practice, to the human rights and fundamental freedoms 
actually  enshrined  in  the  Universal  Declaration  and 
translated into international law and conventions.
The  Holy  See  is  especially  concerned  about  the 
increasingly narrow interpretation of the right to life, 
both at the national level and at the level of the treaty 
bodies  and  other  human  rights  mechanisms.  That 
tendency  is  particularly  apparent  within  a  current  of 
the  human  rights  discourse  that  refuses  to  recognize 
the  inherent  value  and  dignity  of  human  life  at  every 
stage  of  its  beginning,  development  and  end.  That 
approach seeks to create a hierarchy of human rights, by 
relativizing  human  dignity,  assigning  more  value  and 
greater rights to the strong and healthy, while discarding 
the  weak.  That  ideology,  unfortunately  present  in 
various  parts  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights 
system, leads to some grave inequalities and injustices, 
often  ignoring  children  in  the  womb  and  treating  the 
lives  of  the  elderly  and  persons  with  disabilities  as 
expendable or indeed as a burden to society.
While  freedom  is  crucial  to  the  ability  of  every 
person  to  express  his  or  her  unique  identity,  the 
reduction  of  a  person’s  dignity  to  his  or  her  capacity 
for  self-expression  and  affirmation  is  always  a  grave 
error  and  a  sign  that  society  is  losing  its  ability  to 
recognize  the  value  and  importance  of  every  human 
life,  no  matter  how  vulnerable.  It  is  worth  recalling 
here  Pope  Francis’s  words  during  a  general  audience 
with  the  elderly  on  4  March  2015.  He  said  that  “a 
society without proximity, where gratuity and affection 
without compensation — between strangers as well — is 
disappearing, is a perverse society”.
The same dehumanization occurs when people are 
reduced  to  the  crimes  they  may  have  committed,  the 
country to which they may belong or to their productive 
capacity. The Holy See reaffirms that the quality of a 
civilization depends also on how it treats the weakest, 
the indigent, the elderly, persons with disability, and on 
the place that it gives them in community life.
Article  22  of  the  Universal  Declaration  affirms 
that  everyone  has  the  right  to  social  security  and  to 
the  realization  of  the  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights indispensable to his or her dignity and the free 
development  of  his  or  her  personality.  Frequently 
though,  because  of  war  and  conflict,  poverty,  natural 
disasters  and  other  similar  causes,  that  right  cannot 
be  realized  in  one’s  place  of  birth  or  residence.  Such 
situations  prompt  millions  to  leave  their  place  of 
residence  in  order  to  fulfil  their  basic  human  needs 
elsewhere  and  to  search  elsewhere  for  well-being  and 
happiness for themselves and their loved ones.
This  year,  a  long  and  comprehensive  process  has 
been  completed  aimed  at  addressing  the  challenges 
of  international  migration.  For  the  first  time  ever, 
the  international  community  has  engaged  in  an  open 
and  transparent  debate  on  the  phenomenon  of  those 
movements and on what is needed to manage migration 
in a more safe, orderly and regular manner. The result 
is  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration, which will be adopted this coming December 
at an international conference to be held in Marrakech, 
Morocco.
The  coming  global  compacts,  one  for  migration 
and the other on refugees, will provide a continuum of 
protection for all those forced to flee from their place 
of  residence,  including  those  displaced  by  sudden-
onset and slow-onset natural disasters, climate change 
and environmental degradation, ensuring that no one is 
left  behind.  Taken  together,  the  compacts  will  affirm 
our shared responsibility, in the pursuit of the common 
good, to care for those most in need of solidarity and 
for those whose dignity and fundamental human rights 
are most at risk.
The strain that many States face in responding to 
mixed  flows,  especially  when  they  are  unpredictable 
and overwhelming, was given thorough consideration. 
What  became  apparent  was  not  only  the  need  for 
increased  international  solidarity  and  burden-  and 
responsibility-sharing,  but  also  the  prior  commitment 
of States to
“work  together  to  create  conditions  that  allow 
communities and individuals to live in safety and 
dignity  in  their  own  countries”  (A/CONF.231/3, 
annex, para. 13).
That includes not only increased investment in education 
and  basic  health-care  infrastructure  and  services,  but 
also  capacity-building  and  training  for  young  people, 
with  a  view  to  helping  them  find  their  place  and 
affirm  their  dignity  in  an  increasingly  destabilizing 
global  economy.  It  also  requires  addressing  the  root 
12/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
causes  and  driving  factors  that  lead  to  displacement 
before the people in question are constrained to leave 
their homelands.
In order to respect every person’s human dignity, it 
is indispensable also to create the conditions necessary 
for  the  realization  of  the  right  to  remain.  Those 
conditions  include  the  protection  of  the  family  as  the 
basic  unit  of  society.  When  individuals  are  forced  to 
leave their families behind, often in search of a better 
life  for  their  children  and  loved  ones,  the  very  fabric 
of society begins to unravel. There is no substitute for 
family unity, which must be upheld, both for those who 
remain, as well as for those on the move.
Pope Francis described those shared responsibilities 
and  authentic  solidarity  in  four  verbs:  to  welcome, 
to protect, to promote and to integrate. The Holy See 
hopes  that  the  honest  effort  expended  on  the  global 
compacts  will  ensure,  in  line  with  those  four  steps, 
respect for migrants’ and refugees’ rights and dignity 
in a spirit of international solidarity while recognizing 
the sovereign right of States to determine their national 
migration  policy  in  light  of  their  obligations  under 
international  law.  In  a  recent  homily  during  a  Holy 
Mass for Migrants on 6 July 2018, Pope Francis said:
“Faced  with 
the  challenges  of  contemporary 
movements  of  migration,  the  only  reasonable 
response  is  one  of  solidarity  and  mercy...  A  just 
policy is one at the service of the person, of every 
person involved; a policy that provides for solutions 
that can ensure security [and] respect for the rights 
and dignity of all; a policy concerned with the good 
of one’s own country, while taking into account that 
of others in an ever more interconnected world.”
The Holy See hopes that the global compacts will 
serve as useful tools for good migration management at 
every level and a common resource for achieving our 
shared responsibility, given the plight of refugees, and 
as reference points for international cooperation in the 
management of migration and the care for refugees.
The  Universal  Declaration  reminds  us  that  the 
defence of the “inherent dignity and of the equal and 
inalienable rights of all members of the human family 
is  the  foundation  of  ...  peace  in  the  world”.  Article 
1  affirms  that  we  are  “endowed  with  reason  and 
conscience  and  should  act  towards  one  another  in  a 
spirit  of  brotherhood”.  Wars  and  armed  conflicts  are, 
therefore, not only violations of reason, conscience and 
brotherhood, but they also cause the worst violations of 
human dignity and basic human rights.
In the Middle East, the multifaceted political and 
diplomatic  pressures  and  violence,  together  with  the 
various  humanitarian  situations,  especially  in  Syria, 
must  be  adequately  and  urgently  addressed  by  the 
international  community.  Furthermore,  all  interested 
parties  must  also  demonstrate  a  unified  will  to  strive 
for  an  end  to  violence  and  work  to  reach,  as  Pope 
Francis  stated,  a  solution  that  can  enable  Palestinians 
and Israelis alike to live at last in peace within clearly 
established  and  internationally  recognized  borders, 
thus implementing the two-State solution.
The Holy See remains concerned about the ongoing 
political  tensions  and  instability  in  Nicaragua  and 
Venezuela, especially with regard to the humanitarian 
crisis  in  the  latter.  There  is  also  a  need  to  promote  a 
genuine  public  awareness  of  a  number  of  ongoing 
situations of conflict with a view to reaching a negotiated 
and  peaceful  solution,  especially  in  Ukraine,  Libya 
and  the  Central  African  Republic,  among  others.  The 
Holy  See  considers  the  recent  political  developments 
in  South  Sudan  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, as well as the agreement between Ethiopia and 
Eritrea, as positive signs toward the building of peaceful 
and  democratic  societies  based  on  the  firm  hope  that 
agreements  reached  will  be  mutually  respected.  War 
and armed conflict can be prevented only by promoting 
and protecting the dignity of every human life and by 
fostering a culture of peace animated by sincere mutual 
respect,  dialogue  and  solidarity.  The  tragedy  of  the 
First World War, whose end 100 years ago we will mark 
in  November,  teaches  us,  as  Pope  Francis  stated,  that 
victory  must  not  be  followed  by  the  humiliation  of  a 
defeated foe and that peace can be achieved only when 
nations can discuss matters on equal terms.
A  culture  of  peace  implies  fighting  injustice 
and  rooting  out,  in  a  non-violent  way,  the  causes  of 
discord that lead to wars. The pursuit of peace requires 
renouncing  the  use  of  violence  to  vindicate  one’s 
rights,  since  countering  violence  with  violence  leads 
to  more  death  and  destruction,  deeper  resentment 
and  hatred  lasting  for  decades,  atrocities  and  forced 
mass migrations, and the diversion of vast amounts of 
resources from development to military ends. Fostering 
a culture of peace likewise entails the intensification of 
our efforts to achieve disarmament and the rejection of 
the use of force in the conduct of international affairs. 
18-30214
13/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
Every effort in that direction, however modest, helps to 
build a culture of peace.
The Holy See underlines the deep bonds between the 
promotion of the culture of peace and the strengthening 
of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  efforts.  The 
proliferation of weapons, in fact, aggravates conflicts 
and generates vast human and material costs, hindering 
human  and  economic  development  and  the  search  for 
lasting peace. As the report of the Secretary-General on 
the work of the Organization (A/73/1) emphasizes, we 
need to reinvigorate disarmament, because it is pivotal 
to preserving human society through the prevention of 
conflict  and  the  reduction  of  violence,  and  to  saving 
lives and ensuring a safer world. In that perspective, the 
Holy See is firmly committed to the full implementation 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
and  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons and the various programmes of action in the 
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons fields, as well 
as  those  relating  to  cluster  munitions,  anti-personnel 
mines and small arms and light weapons.
The  responsibility  to  defend  human  dignity  and 
rights  is  particularly  acute  in  situations  where  people 
fall  victim  to  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing,  war  crimes 
and  crimes  against  humanity.  Today,  at  a  time  when 
the  many  national  and  regional  conflicts  add  up 
to  what  Pope  Francis  has  called  a  third  world  war 
fought  piecemeal,  the  need  to  protect  populations  is 
more urgent than ever. It is worthwhile to recall that, 
although the responsibility to protect was defined only 
at  the  2005  World  Summit,  it  has  always  been  at  the 
root of the United Nations.
Already in the early part of the sixteenth century, 
when  the  concept  of  national  sovereign  States  was 
emerging,  the  Spanish  friar  Francisco  de  Vitoria 
described  the  responsibility  of  governors  to  protect 
their citizens as an aspect of natural reason shared by 
all nations and a rule for an international order whose 
task  is  to  regulate  relations  between  peoples.  The 
principles  that  De  Vitoria  articulated  in  the  sixteenth 
century have been enshrined in the 2005 World Summit 
Outcome  document  (resolution  60/1).  The  Holy  See 
upholds  the  perennial  validity  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect  and  calls  for  its  full,  impartial  and  consistent 
implementation.  Such  an  implementation  necessarily 
entails  fulfilling  all  obligations  under  international 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law,  as 
well  as  condemning  any  deliberate  attacks  against 
civilian targets. It means preventing or stopping crimes 
against humanity and protecting populations from them 
through greater legal, political and moral accountability.
Peace requires forgiveness. Forgiveness is central 
to  reconciliation  and  peacebuilding,  since  it  makes 
possible the healing and rebuilding of human relations. 
Forgiveness is not opposed to justice, but it is rather its 
fulfilment, since it leads to the healing of the wounds that 
fester  in  human  hearts,  while  acknowledging  the  evil 
that has been committed. A culture of peace involves, 
therefore,  the  courageous  choice  of  not  allowing  the 
wounds  of  the  past  to  bleed  into  the  present,  so  that 
we  can  walk  together  towards  reconciliation.  Every 
religion  is  called  upon  to  assist  in  the  reconciliation 
effort  by  promoting  peace.  Equally  important  is 
the  testimony  given  when  different  religions  come 
together  to  pray  and  work  for  peace.  Interreligious 
and  intercultural  dialogue  provides  the  world  with  a 
paradigm to share their respective cultural patrimony, 
grow  in  mutual  appreciation  of  others’  perspectives, 
heal  past  wounds,  and  journey  together  toward  peace 
and  human  development.  Religious  men  and  women, 
moved  as  they  are  to  revere  each  other’s  God-given 
dignity, have a special responsibility to bear witness by 
respectful and constructive dialogue among cultures.
Although,  even  today,  there  are  some  acts  of 
religiously  motivated  violence,  the  response  to  them 
must not be a renewed form of retaliatory justice, but 
rather authentic dialogue between the various religious 
communities on the basis of the joint and unequivocal 
belief  that  killing  others  in  the  name  of  God  offends 
God  himself.  Terrorism  is  not  an  outgrowth  of 
properly  understood  religion,  but  rather  the  fruit  of  a 
profound  spiritual  poverty.  Defeating  it  requires  the 
joint contribution of all religious and political leaders. 
Religious leaders must therefore promote those values 
that foster the love of one’s neighbour. For their part, 
political leaders must ensure the enjoyment of the right 
to  religious  freedom,  while  acknowledging  religion’s 
positive contribution to the building of a civil society 
that  sees  no  opposition  between  the  participation  in 
the  political  community  and  the  spiritual  dimension 
of  life.  They  must  also  ensure  that  there  are  no 
conditions — such as poverty, insufficient support for 
families  and  inadequate  investment  in  education  and 
culture — that favour the spread of fundamentalism.
The  Holy  See  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  heartfelt 
concern for all victims of terrorism. At the same time, it 
wishes to underline that all measures to combat terrorist 
activities must fully respect human rights. In particular, 
14/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
counter-terrorism  measures  should  not  hinder  the 
legitimate work of charitable organizations, including 
those motivated by faith, aimed at caring for vulnerable 
populations.  It  must  be  recognized  that  humanitarian 
assistance  in  underdeveloped  countries  and  in  crisis 
zones  contributes  positively  to  the  prevention  of 
terrorism  and  retaliatory  violence,  which  thereby 
fosters the enjoyment of human rights and the respect 
for  dignity.  As  noted  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization, terrorism is a 
worldwide scourge and requires a globally coordinated 
response. The Holy See welcomes all efforts to enhance 
multilateral cooperation against terrorism, such as the 
recent United Nations High-level Conference of Heads 
of Counter-Terrorism Agencies of Member States.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirms 
that the equal rights of men and women flow from their 
inherent dignity and worth. It is therefore necessary to 
adopt all measures needed to promote equality in rights 
and the full and equal participation of women and men 
in society.
While history books sing the victories of emperors 
and warriors, all of civilization owes an unpayable debt 
of  gratitude  to  the  less  chronicled  or  even  unknown 
contributions  of  women  and  men  that  have  shaped 
civilizations.  While  textbooks  normally  obsess  about 
the  names  at  the  top  of  political  hierarchies  and  are 
preoccupied fundamentally with economic and military 
trends,  it  is  worth  recalling  that  genuine  human 
progress happens more fundamentally in the relations 
that human beings have with one another and in the way 
in which human beings care for one another.
Today, women and men are at the forefront of the 
revolution of tenderness that Pope Francis has insisted 
the world urgently needs. In response to various forms 
of human suffering and to material, emotional or even 
spiritual necessities, people need help and remedies that 
accord with the fullness of their human dignity. Having 
gone through multiple traumas, they need to be cared 
for and treated with great sensitivity and attention.
competence 
and 
technical  knowledge,  women  have,  indeed,  shown  a 
special capacity for recognizing, affirming, nurturing 
and  defending  the  inherent  dignity  of  others,  and  for 
contributing  greatly  to  efforts  aimed  at  promoting  a 
peaceful,  respectful  and  harmonious  world.  As  Pope 
Francis has affirmed, women look at life through their 
own  eyes,  and  men  are  not  able  to  look  at  life  in  the 
Beyond 
their  professional 
way that women do. The way of viewing a problem, of 
seeing anything, is different for a woman compared to a 
man. They must be complementary. The true progress in 
humanity that is dramatically needed in our challenged 
world  will  also  depend  on  the  full  participation  of 
women on an equal and same footing with men in the 
civil, political, social, economic or cultural fields.
We  note  with  great  concern 
that  women’s 
indispensable  role  is  often  undervalued  and  can  even 
be a vehicle for the exploitation and violation of their 
dignity  and  fundamental  rights.  Today,  women  still 
face a variety of challenges and difficulties in various 
parts of the world. They experience discrimination in 
the workplace; they are often forced to choose between 
work and family; and they disproportionately suffer in 
conflict  situations.  In  poor  and  developing  countries, 
women bear the heaviest burdens: it is they who travel 
many  miles  in  search  of  water,  who  too  often  do  not 
have access even to the most basic medical assistance 
that  they  need  in  childbirth,  and  who  are  kidnapped 
for  sexual  exploitation  or  forced  into  marriage.  At 
times, they are even denied the right to life simply for 
being female.
The  authentic  advancement  of  women  entails 
absolute  respect  for  their  inherent  dignity,  while 
acknowledging  their  crucial  roles,  not  only  in  the 
various  spheres  of  society,  but  also  in  the  family,  as 
equal participants in marriage as spouses. It is therefore 
contradictory to seek to promote women’s empowerment 
while suppressing their unique natural potentialities in 
the name of some particular interests or in the exercise 
of  an  ideological  agenda.  It  is  equally  contradictory 
when  women’s  irreplaceable  contribution  to  society 
through  motherhood  is  stigmatized  as  an  obstacle 
to  their  advancement  and  empowerment,  instead  of 
being acknowledged, supported and accompanied with 
measures aimed at alleviating the difficulties that they 
may encounter. The Holy See wishes to avail itself of 
this  occasion  to  express  grateful  appreciation  for  all 
those  women  who,  sometimes  heroically,  have  raised 
and  educated  generations  of  responsible  daughters 
and sons. The world owes them gratitude and esteem, 
support and solidarity.
The  Universal  Declaration  understands  human 
dignity  as  the  dignity  of  the  person  within  society, 
since  the  person  always  exists  in  relation  to  others. 
Article  16,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Declaration  stresses 
that  the  family  is  the  natural  and  fundamental  group 
unit of society and is entitled to protection by society 
18-30214
15/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
and the State. Article 25 affirms that motherhood and 
childhood  are  entitled  to  special  care  and  assistance. 
Article  26  underlines  that  parents  have  a  prior  right 
to choose the kind of education that shall be given to 
their children.
Those  principles  have  perennial  validity,  even  in 
the midst of changing societies, and must be upheld for 
the good of every child, every family and every society. 
As Pope Francis reminds us, the strength of the family 
lies in its capacity to love and to teach how to love. The 
family  is  a  school  of  humanity,  a  school  that  teaches 
us to open our hearts to others’ needs, to be attentive 
to their lives. As such, it remains a model, as well as a 
reference, for the promotion of harmony within society 
and among the family of nations.
The  family  is  the  greatest  treasure  for  a  country 
and for future generations. In particular, it is urgent to 
promote the protection of children today, as children are 
regularly victims of armed conflict, violence, various 
forms  of  exploitation  and  abuse,  and  are  exposed 
to  hunger  and  extreme  poverty.  The  way  we  care  for 
every child shows the depth of our humanity and of our 
appreciation for the dignity and rights of each person. 
For its part, the Roman Catholic Church is committed, 
at  all  levels,  not  only  to  promoting  the  protection  of 
children, but also to creating safe environments for them 
in its own institutions, in order to address the heinous 
scourge of sexual abuse and violence against children.
When  the  Universal  Declaration  speaks  about 
development, it also does so with regard to the free and 
full development of the human person. For the Holy See, 
development must always be integral, which means, in 
the words of Pope Paul VI, that it cannot be restricted 
to economic growth alone. Authentic development must 
be  well  rounded,  and  it  must  foster  the  development 
of  each  person  and  of  the  whole  person.  Respect  for 
human rights and human dignity, based on a profound 
appreciation  of  the  whole  person  and  every  person, 
is  essential  for  efforts  to  eradicate  extreme  poverty 
and  to  promote  integral  human  development.  Without 
paying attention to those fundamental anthropological 
coordinates, 
the  sustainable  development  agenda 
would  be  reduced  to  its  economic,  environmental  or 
sociological elements.
Extreme  poverty  is  more  than  a  socioeconomic 
problem;  it  is  also  an  ethical  one,  flowing  from 
a  globalization  of 
indifference  exacerbated  by 
consumerism.  The  alternative  to  that  individualistic, 
indifferent and self-centred approach is an interpersonal 
one  that  involves  personal,  social,  economic  and 
environmental  advancement  and  solidarity.  That 
principle  of  interconnectedness  is  found  in  the  Addis 
Ababa  Action  Agenda  of  the  Third  International 
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement  under  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change.  In  adopting  those 
documents,  we  committed  ourselves  to  promoting 
integral  and  authentic  development  in  harmony  with 
nature. We should put all our efforts into achieving the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the  demanding 
goals  of  the  Paris  Agreement.  The  Holy  See  hopes 
that the twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change, to be held in Katowice, Poland,  this 
December, will provide a strong step in that direction 
through a good and effective advancement on the work 
programme of the Paris Agreement.
The Secretary-General has described in his report 
(E/2018/64) some of the recent progress made in the area 
of integral development across the world. The mortality 
rate of children under 5has dropped by 47 per cent in 
the past 10 years. The proportion of the population of 
the least developed countries with access to electricity 
has more than doubled since 2000. Unemployment has 
decreased  in  many  countries,  as  various  institutions 
and frameworks needed for the implementation of the 
2030 Agenda have been put into place.
The  report  stresses,  however,  that  progress  has 
been uneven and too slow to meet the ambitious goals of 
the Agenda. By 2015, 30 per cent of people worldwide 
still did not have access to safe drinking water, while 
60 per cent did not have access to adequate sanitation. 
After a prolonged decline, world hunger has been rising 
again.  The  recent  2018  High-level  Political  Forum 
on  Sustainable  Development  showed  that  there  is  an 
urgent need to step up efforts focused on energy, water 
and  ecosystems.  Moreover,  the  recent  rise  in  trade 
tensions  and  the  growing  scepticism  with  regard  to 
multilateralism endanger the coordinated global effort 
to sustainable development for all.
The  centrality  of  the  human  person  must  also  be 
reaffirmed in the context of the current environmental 
crisis.  As  Pope  Francis  has  reminded  us,  we  are  not 
faced with two separate crises, one environmental and 
the other social, but rather one complex crisis that is both 
social and environmental. That complex reality involves 
16/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
not  only  our  common  home  but  also  our  partners  on 
this planet and therefore demands an integrated ethical 
approach that simultaneously cares for the environment 
while  it  combats  poverty  and  exclusion,  assures  the 
collective enjoyment of the common good, and fosters 
intergenerational solidarity.
The President took the Chair.
Such an approach requires taking with the utmost 
seriousness our responsibility to care for our precious 
natural resources and to protect those persons, especially 
the  poorest,  who  depend  on  them  for  their  daily 
subsistence. I am thinking, above all, of issues relating 
to  food  security  and  food  safety,  as  well  as  access  to 
clean water and the management of the oceans. Without 
an  approach  informed  by  ethical  considerations,  we 
are  left  with  an  economic  system  where  financial 
gain  and  political  power  are  placed  above  the  good 
of  the  environment  and  those  most  vulnerable.  An 
ethical approach to the current crisis must also inspire 
solidarity  with  future  generations.  As  Pope  Francis 
reminds us, intergenerational solidarity is not optional, 
but rather a basic question of justice, since the world we 
have received also belongs to those who will follow us. 
While care for our common home benefits us, it is also 
a gift to future generations, sparing them from paying 
the price of environmental deterioration and ensuring 
that they will be able to enjoy its beauty, wonder and 
manifold endowment.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Virasakdi  Futrakul,  Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand.
Mr. Futrakul (Thailand): It is a great honour for me 
to represent the Kingdom of Thailand in the Assembly 
of  the  nations  of  the  world.  Allow  me,  at  the  outset, 
to express our deepest condolences to the Government 
and the people of Viet Nam on the passing of President 
Trần  Đại  Quang.  His  dedication  to  Viet  Nam  and  his 
contributions  to  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations  (ASEAN)  will  always  be  remembered  with 
respect.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our  heartfelt 
sympathy  to  and  solidarity  with  the  Government  and 
the  people  of  Indonesia  for  the  terrible  loss  of  lives 
and the injuries and damage following the catastrophic 
earthquake and tsunami that hit the island of Sulawesi 
this  past  week.  I  also  join  others  in  paying  tribute  to 
the memory of the late former Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan.  His  efforts  to  incorporate  human  rights  into 
the work of all United Nations organs has brought the 
United  Nations  closer  to  the  people.  He  will  be  long 
remembered  as  the  Secretary-General  who  tried  to 
make the world more humane.
We are living in a world characterized by volatility, 
uncertainty,  complexity  and  ambiguity.  The  United 
Nations  needs  to  adapt  to  meet  the  challenges  of  that 
environment,  so  that  it  can  fulfil  its  noble  mission  of 
peace  and  security,  development  and  human  rights. 
Thailand  therefore  supports  the  efforts  of  Secretary-
General Guterres to reform the United Nations system 
so  as  to  make  it  more  effective,  efficient  and  human-
centred.  Thailand  has  been  active  in  translating  the 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  into  practices  aimed  at  promoting  peace 
and  security,  fostering  sustainable  development  and 
safeguarding human rights.
On  peace  and  security,  Thailand  supports  efforts 
to  make  the  Security  Council  more  representative, 
more  inclusive  and  more  democratic.  We  support  the 
Secretary-General’s  commitment  to  forge  stronger 
linkages  between  peace,  security  and  sustainable 
development, as we believe that it is indeed the economic 
and  social  development  of  the  communities  and  the 
people that lies at the centre of sustaining peace. Since 
1950, over 27,000 Thai military and police personnel, 
men and women, have proudly served in more than 20 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  related  missions. 
And  we  will  do  more.  In  addition  to  a  number  of 
military and police officers who are currently stationed 
with three peacekeeping missions, we are getting ready 
to  deploy  a  horizontal  military  engineering  company 
to  join  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  South  Sudan. 
Wherever  Thai  peacekeepers  go,  they  simultaneously 
seek to keep peace and foster sustainable development 
and to engage in both peacekeeping and peacebuilding.
Thailand also supports a rules-based international 
order.  Last  year,  Thailand  became  one  of  the  first 
States to sign and ratify the Treaty on the Prohibition of 
Nuclear Weapons. And just this past week, I deposited 
our  instrument  of  ratification  for  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT),  which  complements 
ASEAN’s objective of making South-East Asia a nuclear-
weapon-free zone. We also support efforts to achieve a 
peaceful and denuclearized Korean peninsula. We hope, 
furthermore,  to  see  one  day  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
Indo-Pacific  region.  The  late  United  States  Senator 
from New York, Robert Kennedy, paraphrasing George 
Bernard  Shaw,  once  said,  “Some  [men]  see  things  as 
they are, and [ask] ‘why?’ I dream [of] things that never 
18-30214
17/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
were  and  [ask],  ‘Why  not?’”.  Today  all  10  South-East 
Asian nations have ratified the CTBT — why have the 
countries in the Indo-Pacific region not all done so? As 
an Asian proverb states, a journey of a thousand miles 
begins  with  a  single  step.  South-East  Asia  has  taken 
that  first  step  towards  a  nuclear-weapon-free  region. 
Why have the rest of the Indo-Pacific countries not all 
done so?
On development, Thailand supports the reform of 
the United Nations development system with a view to 
making it more effective, efficient and people-centred. 
We  are  also  reforming  our  whole  country  as  we 
implement the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 
Committing  ourselves  to  realizing  the  SDGs  is  one 
thing, but implementing them locally is another. That 
is  why  the  Thai  Government  strives  to  empower  our 
local communities, in urban and rural areas, to change 
for  the  better,  to  improve  the  way  we  produce  and 
consume, the way we work and travel, and the way we 
live, in order to achieve sustainability and realize the 
SDGs. As Mahatma Gandhi once said, we must be the 
change  that  we  wish  to  see  in  the  world.  Sustainable 
development can be achieved only when it is inclusive 
and  responds  to  the  needs  of  people  in  the  society 
concerned. In Thailand, we have launched our reforms 
based on what we have called the “pracharat principle” 
or  the  public-private-people  partnership.  Under  that 
principle, the people, the Government and the private 
sector  work  closely  together  to  pursue  sustainable 
development.  We  are  applying  that  holistic  approach, 
uniting all three sectors ─ public, private and people ─ 
so as to ensure that all stakeholders are engaged in the 
country’s development efforts, leaving no one behind.
In  realizing  Sustainable  Development  Goal  14  on 
the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans, 
seas and marine resources, Thailand is the first Asian 
country to join a global initiative to clean up the oceans 
around  our  tourist  hotspots,  such  as  Koh  Samui,  Koh 
Tao  and  the  famous  Phuket.  We  are  also  working  on 
raising  public  awareness  of  climate  change.  We  are 
also cooperating with other countries in the region to 
mitigate the risks of natural disasters, such as the one 
that  just  hit  Indonesia.  Last  year,  in  order  to  mitigate 
the  human-caused  disaster  of  pollution,  in  particular 
in the form of plastic garbage in the seas and oceans, 
Thailand hosted the ASEAN Conference on Reducing 
Marine Debris in the ASEAN Region aimed at pooling 
our  efforts  to  clean  the  seas  in  our  region.  Thailand 
also  hosted  the  ASEAN-China  Workshop  on  Marine 
Environmental  Protection  in  the  South  China  Sea, 
which sought to map a strategy to clean up our regional 
seas.  In  those  efforts,  we  are  mindful  of  the  warning 
that marine biologist Rachel Carson gave in her book 
The Sea Around Us, writing that it is a curious situation 
that the sea, from which life first arose, should now be 
threatened by the activities of one form of that life. But 
the sea, though changed in a sinister way, will continue 
to exist; the threat is rather to life itself. When we seek 
to save the seas and the oceans, we are in fact seeking 
to save humankind.
On human rights, we are finalizing the draft of our 
fourth national human rights plan for the period 2019-
2023, which seeks to address a range of human rights 
challenges, including issues such as access to land and 
natural resources, the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender  and  intersex  persons  and  human  rights 
defenders,  and  the  freedom  of  the  press.  We  are  also 
drafting a national action plan on business and human 
rights so as to make our private sector an indispensable 
partner in mainstreaming human rights into all sectors 
of Thai society.
The  Thai  Government’s  policies  seek  to  address 
human  rights  challenges  in  a  structural  manner  and 
to  lay  the  foundation  for  sustainable  democracy  in 
Thailand. In order to address discrimination and protect 
people  in  vulnerable  situations,  we  have  enacted  the 
Gender Equality Act, various acts to protect vulnerable 
persons,  the  Justice  Fund  Act  and  the  Equitable 
Education Fund Act. A number of new laws are also in 
the pipeline, such as a community forest bill that seeks 
to  promote  people’s  participation  in  natural  resource 
management, a bill on community banks, a land-tax bill 
to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor, and a 
bill for the prevention and elimination of forced labour 
aimed at protecting the rights of workers and at tackling 
trafficking 
in  persons.  Thailand  recently  ratified 
the  International  Labour  Organization’s  Protocol  to 
Convention No. 29, on forced labour, as a part of our 
continued effort to improve Thai labour standards.
firmly  believes 
that 
engagement  with  civil  society  is  key  to  an  inclusive 
approach to human rights and sustainable development. 
Our  relevant  agencies  have  been  holding  periodic 
consultations  with  non-governmental  organizations 
working on sustainable development and human rights 
issues,  including  in  our  voluntary  national  review  on 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  and  our 
national presentations to human rights treaty bodies.
The  Thai  Government 
18/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
Our commitment to the three pillars of the United 
Nations, namely, peace and security, development and 
human rights, has contributed positively to the stability 
and  prosperity  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand.  Since 
the  current  Government  assumed  office  four  years 
ago,  the  rate  of  growth  of  Thailand’s  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP)  has  risen  from  0.9  per  cent  in  2014  to 
3.9 per cent. This year, our GDP is expected to grow by 
between 4.4 and 4.9 per cent. National competitiveness 
has  risen  from  thirty-seventh  place  in  2014  to  thirty-
second  place  last  year.  Tourists  have  returned,  with 
more  than  35  million  visitors  to  Thailand  last  year. 
This year, the number of tourists coming to Thailand 
is expected to be close to 40 million, thereby reflecting 
tourists’ confidence in Thailand’s peace and security.
Our efforts to realize the SDGs have also improved 
our people’s lives. The maternal mortality ratio stands 
at 26.6 deaths per 100,000 live births, and the mortality 
rate of children under 5 is at 8.6 per 1,000 live births. 
People’s  access  to  universal  health  care  stands  at 
99.9  per  cent.  Access  to  education  at  the  primary 
level  is  at  100  per  cent,  lower  secondary  school  at 
88.3  per  cent  and  upper  secondary  school  at  72.7  per 
cent. Furthermore, 60 per cent of our labour force are 
women. In our efforts to realize the SDGs, the Royal 
Thai  Government  has  been  guided  by  His  Majesty 
the 
late  King  Bhumibol  Adulyadej’s  sufficiency 
economy philosophy.
The sufficiency economy philosophy teaches us that 
development  must  be  home-grown  and  rooted  within 
each citizen in order to be sustainable — in other words, 
strength from within builds strength on the outside. The 
Government has therefore focused our resources so as 
to empower households and communities through our 
policies with regard to community banking, community 
land deeds, community forests, lifting household debts 
and  providing  universal  health  coverage.  Thailand 
has  also  shared  our  philosophy  of  development,  the 
sufficiency  economy  philosophy,  with  the  Group  of 
77 and China, which has endorsed it as a development 
model.  We  have  also  been  working  with  over  twenty 
countries  around  the  world  under  the  Sufficiency 
Economy  Philosophy  for  SDGs  Partnership,  sharing 
our developmental approach.
Looking  ahead,  the  Royal  Thai  Government  is 
laying a strong foundation for stability and development 
through  its  twenty-year  national  strategies.  They  will 
transform our country into a strong and modern economy 
that  is  ready  to  cope  with  the  present-day  volatile, 
uncertain, complex and ambiguous environment and the 
challenges that we will face throughout the remainder 
of the twenty-first century.
Thailand was the birthplace of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). In 2019, Thailand 
will  assume  the  chairmanship  of  ASEAN.  Our  goal 
during  our  chairmanship  of  ASEAN  is  to  foster  the 
creation  of  a  truly  people-centred  community,  where 
no one is left behind. Such a community will need to 
be  resilient,  dynamic,  inclusive  and  forward-looking. 
During  our  chairmanship  of  ASEAN,  we  will  further 
strengthen our partnership with the United Nations on 
its three noble missions: peace and security, sustainable 
development and human rights.
In  our  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  on 
sustainable development, we believe that the Economic 
and  Social  Council  can  help  shape  directions  and 
build  policy  coherence  to  support  us  in  realizing  the 
SDGs. Thailand will therefore seek membership in the 
Council for the term 2020-2022. We will try our utmost 
to support the Council in advancing the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
I am also glad to announce that, in order to reaffirm 
our support for the repositioning of the United Nations 
development system, Thailand will contribute $200,000 
to  the  special  purpose  trust  fund  to  reinvigorate  the 
resident  coordinator  system.  That  will  enhance  the 
work of the United Nations on the ground and make the 
Organization more relevant to all people.
As  a  small  country,  Thailand  takes  to  heart  the 
conviction  of  the  late  former  Secretary-General  Dag 
Hammarskjöld  that,  ultimately,  international  law  is 
the last defence of small countries. Thailand views the 
United Nations as an embodiment of international law in 
action and therefore pledges our full and wholehearted 
cooperation with the United Nations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
the 
Mr.  Mahmadamin  Mahmadaminov,  Chair  of 
Delegation of the Republic of Tajikistan.
Mr.  Mahmadaminov  (Tajikistan):  At  the  outset, 
Madam  President,  I  would  like  to  join  previous 
speakers by extending, on behalf of the Government of 
the Republic of Tajikistan, our sincere congratulations 
on  your  well-deserved  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We are 
confident  that  your  wisdom,  diplomatic  experience 
and skills will contribute to the success of the current 
18-30214
19/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
session of the General Assembly. You can rest assured 
of my delegation’s constant support and cooperation in 
that regard.
I would also like to take this opportunity to commend 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, 
on his able leadership during the previous session of the 
General Assembly.
We live in an ever-changing world. Unprecedented 
levels of instability and uncertainty are on the rise in 
many  parts  of  the  world.  Global  challenges  such  as 
climate  change,  terrorism  and  extremism,  large-scale 
conflicts, inequality, poverty, food and water insecurity, 
lack  of  education  and  economic  opportunities,  and 
unemployment — to name but a few — further affect 
the status quo.
Today’s  global  challenges  exert  pressure  on  the 
very foundations of the world order and the principles 
of  international  relations.  They  undermine  the  efforts 
of  the  international  community  to  achieve  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and its Sustainable 
Development Goals.
Under  those  circumstances,  the  theme  for  this 
session, namely, “Making the United Nations relevant to 
all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”, 
becomes very pertinent.
I  echo  the  words  of  our  late  former  Secretary-
General,  the  great  diplomat  and  outstanding  human 
being Kofi Annan, who said,
“We should be asking what should we be doing 
in this changing world. The world is changing and 
the United Nations has to change and adapt with it. 
We cannot be static.”
As  a  universal  institution,  the  United  Nations 
should  continue  carrying  out  its  noble  mission  of 
coordinating the efforts of its Member States aimed at 
enhancing the resilience of the countries as they seek to 
respond to modern threats and challenges. At the same 
time, Member States should also play an active part in 
that process by meeting their commitments, undertaken 
in the 2030 Agenda, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  to 
restore  stability  and  thereby  to  ensure  development. 
Full  implementation  of  the  aforementioned  milestone 
documents is required in order to address many of the 
socioeconomic  problems  that  are  the  main  drivers  of 
extremism and terrorism.
My country believes that the response to the ever-
increasing  threat  of  terrorism  and  violent  extremism 
should  be  comprehensive,  with  the  United  Nations 
as  a  key  coordinator.  The  efforts  should  be  focused 
on  the  elimination  of  the  military  infrastructure  of 
international  terrorism,  on  depriving  it  of  political, 
military  and  financial  support,  and  on  preventing  the 
use  of  information  and  communications  technologies 
for  the  radicalization  of  minds,  recruitment  and 
propaganda messages for extremism and violence.
that 
In  order  to  discuss  those  issues,  the  Government 
of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan,  in  close  cooperation 
with the United Nations, the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  European  Union  and 
some  partner  countries,  convened,  in  Dushanbe  on 
3 to 4 May, the high-level international conference on 
countering terrorism and preventing violent extremism. 
We  are  confident 
the  Dushanbe  conference 
served  as  an  excellent  platform  for  constructive  and 
fruitful  cooperation  by,  inter  alia,  contributing  to  the 
achievement  of  a  general  recognition  of  the  negative 
impact  and  consequences  of  the  current  challenges, 
exploring  possibilities  for  strengthening  partnership 
and  cooperation  at  all 
levels,  and  exchanging 
experiences  in  countering  terrorism  and  preventing 
violent extremism. Furthermore, in order to address the 
evolving transnational threat posed by terrorist groups 
and their affiliated member States, the United Nations 
should continue to strengthen and promote the effective 
use of the necessary tools and measures.
It  is  essential  that  we  jointly  search  for  ways  to 
address poverty, the negative impact of globalization, 
and  the  prevention  and  resolution  of  conflicts.  There 
is also a need to strengthen intercultural and interfaith 
dialogue,  mutual  trust  and  tolerance.  In  that  context, 
the  United  Nations  remains  a  critically  important 
platform  for  achieving  consensus  on  the  main  issues 
of  international  security  and  development,  as  well 
as  for  the  coordination  of  joint  actions  on  the  part  of 
the  international  community  aimed  at  addressing  the 
challenges and threats of the contemporary world.
Peace is the main prerequisite for creating equitable 
and sustainable societies across the world. We therefore 
believe  that  stable  peace  in  the  Middle  East  can  be 
achieved  only  through  a  comprehensive  settlement  of 
the  crisis,  which  in  turn  will  contribute  to  enhancing 
global security. We support international and regional 
efforts  aimed  at  restoring  and  strengthening  peace 
and stability in the Middle East, including the efforts 
20/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
to further the resumption and acceleration of credible 
negotiations within the Middle East peace process.
during  Afghanistan’s 
We  also  support  the  international  strategy  for 
a  comprehensive  settlement  and  for  post-conflict 
rehabilitation  in  Afghanistan.  We  need  to  strengthen 
our  assistance  to  the  Government  of  Afghanistan, 
especially 
transformation 
decade  (2015-2024).  Urgent  socioeconomic  recovery 
is  a  must  for  the  development  and  prosperity  of 
Afghanistan.  Targeted  assistance  to  that  war-torn 
country,  aimed  at  economic  recovery,  strengthening 
the  social  sphere  and  creating  new  jobs,  should  be 
expanded. To that end, the involvement of Afghanistan 
in  the  process  of  multifaceted  regional  cooperation  is 
critical for the success of the efforts undertaken by the 
international community.
We are willing to take part in the rehabilitation of 
the social and economic infrastructure of Afghanistan 
by  connecting  the  transport  arteries  of  our  two 
countries,  by  creating  an  energy  bridge  through  the 
Central  Asia-South  Asia  power  project  (CASA-1000), 
and by providing the Afghan population with essential 
commodities and by training specialists.
We  are  in  the  third  year  of  the  implementation 
of  the  2030  Agenda  and  its  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  The  recent  High-level  Political  Forum 
on Sustainable Development has vividly demonstrated 
that, despite certain progress, there are early signs that 
a  number  of  countries  are  not  on  track  to  reach  the 
SDGs by 2030. It is alarming to observe that situation, 
particularly  at  the  stage  when  the  countries  have 
just  started  incorporating  the  2030  Agenda  into  and 
aligning it with their national development strategies. 
The mistakes of the era of the Millennium Development 
Goals should not be repeated. For that reason, there is 
an urgent need to step up efforts on all fronts aimed at 
achieving our ambitious goal, namely, to transform our 
world for the better by 2030.
The first step to be undertaken is to strengthen the 
means of implementation, especially for the developing 
countries.  The  mobilization  of  financial  resources, 
including  official  development  assistance,  long-term 
investments, revitalized global partnerships, capacity-
building  and  the  transfer  of  environmentally  sound 
technologies to the developing countries, is needed in 
order to adequately attain the SDGs in a timely manner 
by 2030.
investments  — 
Secondly,  national  development  efforts  need  to 
be  supported  by  an  enabling  international  economic 
environment.  It  is  essential  to  revitalize  international 
trade  and 
the  main  engines  of 
economic growth and development. Effective regional 
cooperation  should  also  facilitate  the  achievement  of 
sustainable  development.  As  we  pledged  to  leave  no 
one behind in our collective journey, it is imperative to 
recognize  that  each  country  faces  specific  challenges 
in  achieving  the  2030  Agenda,  in  particular  the  most 
vulnerable countries, such as the African countries, the 
least  developed  countries,  the  landlocked  developing 
countries  and  the  small  island  developing  States.  We 
need,  therefore,  to  take  into  account  the  different 
national realities, capacities and levels of development 
of those vulnerable countries and scale up our assistance 
to them.
With  that  in  mind,  we  supported  and  welcomed 
the  Secretary-General’s  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
development  system  aimed  at  enhancing  the  United 
Nations  contribution  to  sustainable  development.  We 
believe that the new changes will transform the United 
Nations  system  and  will  make  it  more  capable  of 
supporting  the  2030  Agenda  and  delivering  better  on 
the ground.
The year 2018 was important for the water agenda, 
not only for Tajikistan, a country that actively advances 
that  agenda,  but  also  for  the  entire  water  community 
across  the  globe.  We  witnessed  a  series  of  milestone 
events, starting in Brazil with the eighth World Water 
Forum, then the launch of the Water Action Decade in 
New  York,  followed  by  the  High-level  International 
Conference  on  the  International  Decade  for  Action 
“Water  for  Sustainable  Development”  2018-2028, 
which was held in Dushanbe, and culminating in New 
York  with  the  2018  High-level  Political  Forum  on 
Sustainable Development.
Each  of  those  events  had  a  profound  impact 
and  made  a  significant  contribution  to  the  overall 
advancement of SDG 6 and other water-related Goals 
of  the  2030  Agenda.  For  instance,  the  joint  United 
Nations  and  Tajikistan 
International  High-level 
Conference  on  the  International  Decade  for  Action 
“Water  for  Sustainable  Development”,  2018-2028, 
held in Dushanbe from 20 to 22 June, brought together 
approximately  1,500  people  from  111  countries.  The 
Conference  also  provided  a  timely  and  necessary 
platform for elaborating recommendations in the run-
18-30214
21/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
up to the High-level Political Forum, where SDG 6 had 
been reviewed.
Among  other  things,  the  Conference  helped  to 
increase  the  attention  paid  to  the  water-related  SDGs 
and targets at all levels and to the interlinkages between 
various  Goals  and  targets;  to  strengthen  cooperation 
and  partnerships  at  all  levels  aimed  at  achieving  the 
water-related  SDGs;  to  better  understand  how  water 
contributes to achieving sustainability and how the lack 
of sustainability impacts water resources; to discuss the 
role of the Dushanbe Conference in the implementation 
of  the  International  Decade  for  Action  on  Water  for 
Sustainable  Development;  and,  most 
importantly, 
to  discuss  the  importance  of  specific  means  of 
implementation, 
financing, 
capacity-development, 
technology, 
knowledge,  information,  data  and  best  practices.  It 
also  helped  to  promote  advocacy  and  networking  and 
encouraged partnerships for action.
including  monitoring, 
innovation, 
Encouraged  by  the  success  of  the  Dushanbe 
Conference  and  in  fulfilment  of  the  mandate  of 
resolution  71/222,  which  declared  the  period  of  2018-
2028  as  an  International  Decade  for  Action  on  Water 
for  Sustainable  Development,  Tajikistan  is  going  to 
submit  a  draft  resolution  to  the  General  Assembly 
on  the  midterm  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Decade this fall. We sincerely hope that, based on the 
success  of  the  Water  Decade  resolution,  which  was 
sponsored  in  2016  by  the  majority  of  Member  States, 
the  draft  resolution  will  also  enjoy  their  valuable 
support this time.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Bakhtiyor  Ibragimov,  Chair  of  the  Delegation  of 
the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr.  Ibragimov  (Uzbekistan):  Let  me  express  my 
sincere  gratitude  for  this  opportunity  to  address  the 
Assembly today from this rostrum.
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  to  preside  over  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session. I would 
also  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák for his effective work at the helm of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session.
Today, the Republic of Uzbekistan has entered an 
important stage of radical and dynamic transformations. 
Its  goal  is  to  strengthen  and  further  develop  a 
democratic,  law-governed  State  with  an  open  and 
socially  oriented  market  economy  and  a  vibrant  civil 
society, in which the main values are rights, freedoms 
and the legal interests of individuals. At the initiative 
of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Shavkat 
Mirziyoyev,  we  adopted  a  five-year  action  strategy 
aimed at making fundamental changes in the economy, 
State governance, legal and social spheres, security, and 
at  ensuring  inter-ethnic  and  interconfessional  peace 
and harmony. The principle that the people should not 
serve State bodies, but rather that State bodies should 
serve the people has become a cornerstone of the main 
programme of our democratic reforms.
Elevating  the  role  of  the  Parliament  and  political 
parties, increasing the accountability and transparency 
of the executive branch, strengthening public institutions 
and developing civil society have become the practical 
embodiments  of  the  constitutional  principle  that  the 
people are the sole source of State power.
We  are  taking  significant  steps  to  streamline  the 
national system for the protection of human rights and 
freedoms and are strengthening the independence of the 
judicial system. The use of child and forced labour has 
ceased.  The  recommendations  of  the  United  Nations 
Human  Rights  Council,  treaty  bodies,  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and its 
Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief are 
being systematically implemented.
We  have  also  carried  out  large-scale  initiatives 
to  liberalize  the  economy,  create  conditions  for  free 
entrepreneurship,  ensure  the  inviolability  of  private 
property  and  improve  the  investment  climate.  We 
have introduced the free convertibility of our national 
currency,  expanded  access  to  bank  credit  and  carried 
out  tax  and  custom  reforms.  According  to  the  World 
Bank report entitled “Doing Business 2018”, Uzbekistan 
was among the 10 leading countries in terms of creating 
favourable  conditions  for  doing  business.  As  a  result, 
Uzbekistan  today  has  earned  a  reputation  for  being  a 
thoroughly renewed, open and dynamically developing 
country.  The  chosen  path  of  resolute  reforms  is 
irreversible and enjoys the broad support of the people 
of the country.
Today  we  are  witnessing  an  unprecedented  new 
alignment  of  power  at  the  global  and  regional  levels. 
A rethinking of the principles of international politics 
and  economics,  which  until  recently  seemed  to  be 
unshakable, is under way. The world is becoming less 
predictable and unstable. The strength and effectiveness 
22/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
of multilateral institutions and mechanisms designed to 
ensure international security has been put to the test.
In  that  regard,  it  is  crucial  to  strengthen  the 
central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international 
relations, especially in the support of the three pillars 
of  the  Organization,  namely,  peace,  the  security  and 
sustainable development of countries and regions, and 
the protection of human rights. Uzbekistan supports the 
steps taken by the leadership of the United Nations to 
streamline  the  governing  system  of  the  Organization, 
and calls for the gradual reform of its bodies, including 
the  Security  Council,  by  taking  into  account  today’s 
realities and challenges.
In addition, we are ready to actively participate in 
United Nations efforts to promote comprehensive peace, 
stability and development on the basis of the respect for 
human rights and freedoms, democratization and the rule 
of law. In that regard, Uzbekistan has, for the first time, 
presented its candidacy to the Human Rights Council 
for  the  period  2021-2023.  We  sincerely  hope  that  our 
achievements in the area of human rights will provide a 
solid basis for gaining the support of States Members of 
the United Nations for Uzbekistan’s candidacy.
We  are  also  counting  on  the  support  of  Member 
States  to  back  the  initiative  of  the  President  of 
Uzbekistan aimed at developing and adopting a United 
Nations convention on the rights of youth and a General 
Assembly  draft  resolution  on  enlightenment  and 
religious  tolerance.  Those  documents  would  facilitate 
efforts  to  effectively  counter  the  threats  of  terrorism 
and  the  ideology  of  radicalism  by  tackling  the  vital 
socioeconomic problems facing our youth through the 
provision  of  better  access  to  high-quality  education 
and enlightenment in the spirit of tolerance, humanism 
and openness.
Uzbekistan  has  already  begun  advancing  those 
initiatives. In June, working with our foreign partners, 
we held an international conference on the role of youth 
in  confronting  religious  extremism  and  terrorism.  At 
the end of the conference, the participants adopted the 
Samarkand Declaration on Increasing the Role of Youth 
in  Countering  Violent  Extremism  and  Radicalization 
Leading to Terrorism.
In  2018,  the  international  community  celebrates 
the seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights.  In  that  regard,  the  President  of 
Uzbekistan  has  signed  a  decree  on  a  programme  of 
events  dedicated  to  that  occasion.  We  have  adopted  a 
special State programme for promoting the essence and 
significance of that first universal document on human 
rights through the streamlining of domestic legislation 
on human rights and law enforcement and the facilitation 
of Uzbekistan’s accession to new international treaties.
Uzbekistan has also made a voluntary contribution to 
the  budget  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  in  the  amount  of 
$100,000.
Currently,  we  are  also  taking  an  initiative  to 
convene an Asian international forum on human rights 
on 22 and 23 November 2018 as the final event of our 
targeted  practical  actions.  The  forum  will  take  place 
in the city of Samarkand, which is, as is attested to by 
UNESCO, a crossroads of many of the world’s cultures. 
Central Asia remains a main foreign-policy priority of 
Uzbekistan.  Today,  the  situation  in  the  region  differs 
from  the  one  that  prevailed  not  long  ago.  Thanks 
to  the  joint  efforts  of  the  countries  of  the  region,  we 
have  created  in  Central  Asia,  within  a  short  period 
of  time,  a  fundamentally  new  political  atmosphere, 
raised the level of political trust and strengthened the 
traditionally  friendly  and  good-neighbourly  relations 
among ourselves.
The  important  outcome  of  all  that  work  is  the 
significant  progress  achieved  in  resolving  such  acute 
issues as the demarcation of borders, the management 
of  water  resources  and  the  joint  use  of  transport 
communications.  It  should  be  noted  that  those  very 
issues had not only remained unresolved for an extended 
period of time but were also sources of regional tension. 
The  agreements  with  neighbouring  countries  have 
enabled  the  opening  of  dozens  of  checkpoints  on  the 
borders of Uzbekistan and liberalized the visa regime. 
Uzbekistan’s  trade  turnover  with  the  States  of  the 
region increased by 20 per cent in 2017 and by 50 per 
cent during the first six months of this year.
In the near future, at our initiative, Uzbekistan is 
planning to convene a regional economic forum, which 
should serve as a permanently functioning platform for 
representatives  of  the  business  community  to  discuss 
regional projects in the trade, economic, investment and 
innovative  cooperation  fields.  The  first  consultative 
meeting  of  the  Heads  of  State  of  the  Central  Asian 
countries, held in March in Astana, became the bright 
symbol of a new era of regional cooperation. The next 
forum will take place in March 2019 in Tashkent. Most 
importantly,  we  are  now  more  convinced  that  we  are 
united not only by our joint past, but also by our common 
18-30214
23/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
future. The high level of regional interaction in Central 
Asia  is  receiving  broad  international  support.  In  that 
regard, I would like to express our sincere gratitude to 
all our partners and friends who have recently rendered 
assistance in the preparation and adoption of a historic 
General  Assembly  resolution  entitled  “Strengthening 
regional and international cooperation to ensure peace, 
stability  and  sustainable  development  in  the  Central 
Asian region” (resolution 72/283).
There is no doubt that that United Nations resolution 
acknowledges the formation of Central Asia as a single 
consolidated  region,  the  countries  of  which  —  and  I 
would like to put special emphasis on this ─ are capable 
through their joint efforts of solving common regional 
problems  and  ensuring  prosperity,  well-being  and  a 
worthy future for their population of 70 million people. 
In  order  to  further  deepen  multifaceted  cooperation 
in  our  region,  Uzbekistan  is  proposing  to  develop 
and  adopt  a  General  Assembly  draft  resolution  on 
developing sustainable tourism in Central Asia, which 
would  facilitate  the  utilization  of  the  unique  tourism 
potential  of  the  region,  through  which  the  great  Silk 
Road stretched in the past, connecting East and West by 
trade,  cultural  and  civilizational  ties.  The  sustainable 
development of Central Asia requires the maintenance 
of  the  ecological  equilibrium  of  the  region,  which  in 
turn requires the mitigation of the consequences of the 
drying-up of the Aral Sea. For the past several years, 
Uzbekistan  has  implemented  a  number  of  large-scale 
projects in the Aral Sea zone.
Uzbekistan  initiated  the  establishment  of  the 
Multi-Partner  Human  Security  Trust  Fund  for  the 
Aral  Sea  Region,  which  was  supported  by  the  United 
Nations.  The  President  of  Uzbekistan,  Shavkat 
Mirziyoyev,  during  his  address  at  the  seventy-second 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  last  year  (see  A/72/
PV.5)  and  at  the  recent  summit  of  the  International 
Fund for Saving the Aral Sea, held on 24 August this 
year  in  Turkmenistan,  again  drew  attention  to  that 
initiative. The establishment, under the auspices of the 
United  Nations,  of  the  Multi-Partner  Human  Security 
Trust  Fund  for  the  Aral  Sea  Region  is  an  attempt  to 
highlight major risks that pose threats to the vulnerable 
population and also opens a new level of dialogue aimed 
at comprehensive and human-based solutions that focus 
on  the  real  needs  of  people,  taking  into  account  the 
existing risks and challenges.
Mr.  Mohamed 
the Chair.
(Sudan),  Vice-President, 
took 
We  hope  for  the  overall  support  of  the  United 
Nations for this initiative taken by Uzbekistan. When 
we  speak  about  Central  Asia,  we  cannot  but  mention 
Afghanistan  —  a  country  that  we  consider  to  be  a 
historical part of the culturo-civilizational space of our 
region.  A  stable  Afghanistan  is  a  prerequisite  for  the 
sustainable  development  of  Central  Asia  as  a  whole. 
Recently, Uzbekistan significantly expanded its bilateral 
relations with Afghanistan, actively joined multilateral 
efforts to resolve the Afghan problem and is making a 
real contribution to restoring the country’s economy, as 
well as to developing close trade, economic, transport 
and  communication  ties.  In  March,  we  convened  the 
Tashkent Conference on Afghanistan. As the President 
of  Uzbekistan,  Shavkat  Mirziyoyev,  stated  during  his 
address at the Conference,
“We are ready, at any stage of the peace process, 
to  create  all  necessary  conditions  for  organizing 
on  the  territory  of  Uzbekistan  direct  negotiations 
between  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
Taliban Movement”.
The  main  outcome  of  the  Conference  was  the 
unanimous  adoption  of  the  Tashkent  Declaration.  It 
reinforced a firm consensus, at the regional and global 
levels, on the necessity of obtaining the earliest possible 
launch of direct negotiations between the Government 
of  Afghanistan  and  the  Taliban  Movement,  without 
any  preliminary  conditions.  We  are  convinced  that 
the  readiness  of  the  contending  parties  for  mutual 
negotiations  in  the  name  of  the  vital  interests  of  the 
multinational  Afghan  people  will  serve  as  a  solid 
basis for advancing the peace process in that country. 
In  Uzbekistan,  we  recognize  that  the  success  of  our 
large-scale  programme  of  democratic  transformation, 
outlined in our current strategy of actions, as well as 
the success of our foreign policy initiatives, which are 
aimed at facilitating international peace and stability, 
will,  to  a  large  extent,  depend  on  the  support  of  our 
friends and partners and the international community 
as  a  whole.  Uzbekistan  is  therefore  open  to  a  broad 
international  dialogue.  We  are  sincerely  interested  in 
Uzbekistan’s  further  integration  into  global  political 
and  economic  arrangements  and 
in  developing 
constructive and mutually beneficial cooperation with 
all interested countries.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Michel Xavier Biang, Chair of 
the Delegation of the Gabonese Republic.
24/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
Mr. Biang (Gabon) (spoke in French): I am pleased 
to  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés 
on her outstanding election as President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. I am convinced 
that her qualities and proven knowledge of the United 
Nations will serve as an asset for the effective conduct 
of  our  work.  She  can  count  on  Gabon’s  support 
throughout her mandate. Allow me also to applaud the 
remarkable  work  accomplished  by  her  predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  during  his  term 
as  President  at  the  seventy-second  session.  I  am  also 
pleased  to  commend  the  tireless  efforts  of  Secretary-
General António Guterres in promoting the values and 
ideals of our Organization.
One  month  after  the  death  of  Mr.  Kofi  Annan, 
former Secretary-General and winner of the 2001 Nobel 
Peace Prize, I would like to pay tribute to that illustrious 
man  of  conviction  and  unity,  whose  commitment  to 
peace  and  development will  remain  forever  etched  in 
our collective memory.
The  theme  of  this  session,  namely,  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies”, provides us with an opportunity 
to  assess  the  scope  of  our  actions  in  the  light  of  our 
commitments and the many challenges of today’s world. 
It  is  also  an  opportunity  to  develop  new  perspectives 
within the three pillars of our collective action, namely, 
the promotion of development, peace and security and 
human rights for the well-being of all of the peoples of 
the world.
Making  the  United  Nations  an  Organization  that 
is at the service of peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies  is  a  great  challenge  in  the  current  global 
context characterized by various threats and at a time 
when the values   and ideals enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations are often put to the test. In spite of 
the magnitude of those obstacles, I remain convinced 
that multilateralism is the ideal approach for building 
a more peaceful, just and inclusive world order. In that 
regard, it is essential for our Organization to modernize, 
transform  itself  and  acquire  the  appropriate  means 
for  providing  adequate  responses  to  the  multiple  and 
complex  imperatives  that  we  face  today.  That  is  why 
I have welcomed, since the beginning of his mandate, 
the  reforms  of  the  Secretary-General  to  redeploy the 
architecture  and  resources  of  our  Organization  in 
line with the ambitions and aspirations of the peoples 
of humankind.
The  peoples  of  the  world  —  in  particular  young 
people and women — are demanding that we accelerate 
the  rate  of  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  which  is  the  bearer  of 
political  and  socioeconomic  progress  and  will  have  a 
direct  impact  on  the  living  conditions  of  the  world’s 
populations. In that context, the fight against poverty 
must  remain  at  the  centre  of  our  actions,  given  that 
poverty fuels extremism, which in turn feeds terrorist 
networks around the world. For Gabon, the fulfilment of 
our commitments to sustainable development remains 
linked  to  the  ability  of  the  international  community 
to  mobilize 
financing,  establish 
innovative  partnerships  at  the  international  level  and 
promote  the  transfer  of  technologies,  particularly  to 
developing countries.
the  necessary 
Gabon  reiterates  its  determination  to  make  every 
effort to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. We 
are resolutely committed to a process of reforms aimed 
at accelerating the diversification of our economy. It is 
a question of moving from an economy that is reliant 
on the exploitation of natural resources to a model of 
sustainable and diversified production that will enable 
a  return  to  sustained  economic  growth,  which  will 
require, inter alia, the promotion of youth employment, 
gender equality and women’s empowerment, and efforts 
to combat social inequalities. Those reforms, which are 
both  structural  and  cyclical,  are  mainly  based  on  the 
equal opportunities programme that was launched two 
years  ago  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Gabon, 
Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  and  which  consists  mainly 
of moving from a system of undue privilege to one of 
equality in shared prosperity.
Making  the  United  Nations  an  Organization  at 
the  service  of  peaceful  societies  also  requires  the 
international  community  to  be  more  self-sacrificing 
in  its  fight  against  terrorism  and  other  transnational 
threats,  such  as  piracy  and  poaching.  To  that  end, 
Gabon  welcomes  the  convening  of  the  international 
conference on combating the financing of Da’esh and 
Al-Qaida, held on 25 and 26 April in Paris. We hope 
that  the  findings  of  that  conference  will  significantly 
contribute 
the 
international coalition against terrorism.
to  strengthening 
the  actions  of 
We  remain  concerned  that  in  many  parts  of 
Africa,  extremist  groups  such  as  Boko  Haram  and 
Al-Shabaab, 
to  sow 
terror  and  desolation.  We  are  similarly  concerned 
for  the  Sahel  region,  where  jihadists  are  now  linked 
though  weakened,  continue 
18-30214
25/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
to  trafficking  networks  and  where  terrorist  attacks 
continue  to  undermine  the  development  efforts  of  the 
States  in  the  region.  Those  facts  clearly  demonstrate 
the  need  to  accelerate  the  strengthening  of  national, 
regional  and  subregional  capacities  so  as  to  provide 
States with the means needed to ensure their effective 
security. With foreseeable and adequate funding from 
the  international  community,  Africa  will  no  doubt 
be  more  able  to  respond  appropriately  to  the  security 
threats that plague the continent. This is an opportunity 
for  my  delegation  to  call  for  the  capacity-building  of 
regional forces, such as the Group of Five for the Sahel 
and the African Union Mission in Somalia.
it 
is 
Similarly, 
important 
to  strengthen  our 
prevention  strategies  and  mechanisms,  including  by 
addressing the root causes of crises. As the Assembly is 
aware, security measures are essential but not sufficient 
to  completely  eradicate  the  activities  of  terrorist 
groups.  In  that  regard,  strengthening  international 
cooperation  is  essential.  The  Joint  Summit  of  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  and 
the  Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States, 
which  was  held  on  30  July  in  Lomé  and  dealt  with 
peace, security, stability and the fight against terrorism 
and violent extremism, stemmed from the need to join 
our  efforts  to  fight  effectively  against  terrorism.  The 
Summit enabled, among other things, a harmonization 
of the points of view of the regions of Central and West 
Africa and the adoption of a common approach in order 
to create the conditions for a secure environment in the 
common space of the two regions. My country remains 
resolutely  committed  to  realizing  the  commitments 
made during the Summit, while continuing to implement 
the  Central  African  strategy  for  combating  terrorism 
and the proliferation of small arms and light weapons.
International peace and security have always been 
at the centre of Gabon’s priorities. It is in that respect 
that Gabon recently decided to maintain its contingent 
in the Central African Republic within the framework 
of  the  United  Nations  Multidimensional  Integrated 
Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic. 
I am pleased to reaffirm my country’s commitment to 
continue  to  fulfil  its  commitments  in  that  regard  and 
contribute  to  the  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  lasting 
peace  in  that  brotherly  country,  while  stressing  the 
need for a political solution based on the Libreville road 
map that was signed on 17 July 2017.
Despite  the  progress  made,  Central  Africa  is  still 
beset with many security and humanitarian challenges. 
That  is  why,  as  part  of  our  commitment  to  finding 
solutions to the various sources of instability throughout 
the subregion, President Ali Bongo Ondimba initiated 
a series of consultations with his peers, which resulted 
in  the  formal  consultation  of  the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  Economic  Community  of  Central 
African States on 2 July, on the margins of the thirty-
first African Union Summit held in Nouakchott.
  In  reiterating  its  support  for  our  Organization’s 
efforts  to  strengthen  peace  and  security  in  Africa, 
my  country  particularly  commends  the  efforts  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special  Envoy 
to 
reinvigorate  the  political  process  in  Western  Sahara. 
That political process is essential in more than one way; 
it is realistic and takes into account the specific features 
of the region, which is undermined by terrorist threats. 
Gabon  would  also  like  to  recall  that  the  initiative  for 
autonomy proposed by Morocco is an ideal framework 
through  which  to  reach  a  compromise  solution  that 
is  acceptable  to  all  parties.  That  initiative  conforms 
with international law and the United Nations Charter 
and fits perfectly within the framework of the right to 
self-determination.  The  Security  Council  resolutions 
adopted since 2007 on that issue, including resolution 
2414 (2018), have made clear the need to work towards 
a realistic, pragmatic and sustainable political solution 
based on compromise.
The world is increasingly exposed to the harmful 
effects  of  climate  change.  Given 
that  alarming 
situation,  our  Organization  must  assert  its  leadership 
and  ensure  that  the  efforts  made  so  far  continue  and 
are intensified. Climate change is a reality that impacts 
our  daily  lives.  Rising  temperatures,  melting  glaciers 
and polar ice caps and an increase in the number and 
magnitude of natural disasters are all undeniable signs 
of climate change.
The 
transformation  of  our  consumption  and 
production patterns and the immediate implementation 
of the commitments made in Paris are thus becoming an 
imperative for our universal conscience. In response to 
those facts, the President of the Gabonese Republic, in 
his capacity as coordinator of the Committee of African 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  on  Climate  Change, 
has shown that he clearly understands the urgent need 
to act quickly, not only for Gabon but also for Africa.
It  is  in  that  context,  that,  in  December  2017, 
Gabon provided substantial financial support to efforts 
to  operationalize  the  Initiative  for  the  Adaptation 
26/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
of  African  Agriculture  (AAA),  launched  in  2015 
with  the  objective  of  helping  African  countries  to 
plan,  programme  and  implement  climate-adaptation 
measures. At the same time, my country organized, in 
collaboration  with  the  African  Union  and  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  a  mobilization 
round  table  on  24  September  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters for the AAA. In that regard, we reiterate 
our call to bilateral and multilateral partners, including 
the private sector, to support Africa’s efforts to finance 
measures aimed at increasing the levels of adaptation 
and resilience to the effects of climate change.
On 10 and 11 December 2018, we will have to take a 
formal decision on the global compact for safe, orderly 
and  regular  migration  during  the  Intergovernmental 
Conference  to  be  held  in  Marrakech.  The  holistic 
approach  that  underpinned  the  negotiation  process 
leading  up  the  current  text  under  the  auspices  of  the 
United Nations coincides with a real hope that the world 
will  reach  a  consensus  that  reflects  the  aspirations 
of  present  and  future  generations.  Gabon,  a  land  of 
hospitality,  intends  to  participate  in  that  important 
meeting, aware of the scale of the commitments to be 
made and the assumed responsibilities.
I would like to reiterate the crucial importance of 
multilateralism  in  responding  to  the  challenges  that 
we  face  and  to  the  needs  of  the  present  world.  Our 
success will be measured by the means that we provide 
ourselves with in order to bring the Organization closer 
to the peoples of the world. A stronger United Nations 
at  the  service  of  all  —  one  that  is  based  on  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable, and sustainable 
societies — is possible and within our reach.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Olof  Skoog,  Chair  of  the 
Delegation of Sweden.
Mr. Skoog (Sweden): Just a bit more than a week 
ago,  we  honoured  the  late  former  Secretary-General 
Kofi  Annan  in  this  Hall.  It  was  a  sad  but  dignified 
occasion. It was an inspiration as we began our journey 
at the current session of the General Assembly. We were 
reminded of the unique value of the United Nations and 
the responsibility that we, its Members, have towards 
the  people  of  the  world,  namely,  to  promote  peace, 
development  and  equal  rights.  And,  as  Kofi  Annan 
once said, “We don’t need any more promises. We need 
to start keeping the promises we have already made”.
And, the time to act upon our joint commitments is 
indeed here. Sweden strives to act in accordance with 
its  promises.  We  believe  in  international  cooperation, 
in  shared  responsibility  and  participation,  and  in  a 
rules-based  order  where  international  treaties  and 
agreements  are  respected.  When  Sweden  sought  the 
Assembly’s support to serve on the Security Council, 
we  promised  to  act  on  several  urgent  priorities  on 
behalf of all Members. We continue to do our utmost to 
keep those promises.
Let  me  give  only  a  few  examples.  We  have 
worked  consistently  to  reverse  the  trend  of  disrespect 
for  international  humanitarian  law  and  to  ensure 
humanitarian  access  for  all  those  in  need,  and  we 
have  insisted  on  diplomacy  and  political  solutions  to 
entrenched  conflicts.  We  have  urged  members  of  the 
Security Council to shoulder their responsibilities under 
the Charter of the United Nations, including resisting 
the use of the veto; we have always sought meaningful 
decisions  and  outcomes  that  make  a  difference  for 
people on the ground.
We have tried to translate the Secretary-General’s 
vision for improved prevention into practice. We have 
aimed at introducing an all-inclusive approach to peace, 
including by analysing new risks such as climate change 
and  the  risk  of  famine.  We  have  focused  on  ensuring 
the care, safety and protection of children today, as that 
helps to prevent conflicts tomorrow. Platforms for the 
stronger influence of youth have been introduced. And 
not least, we have worked tirelessly and systematically 
to strengthen the role of women in order for us to better 
sustain and build peace.
We will continue to demand women’s participation 
in  peace  processes,  that  women’s  voices  be  heard  in 
negotiations  and  in  the  Security  Council,  that  United 
Nations  mission  mandates  include  a  women  and 
peace  and  security  perspective,  that  gender  posts  in 
missions continue to be funded and that gender aspects 
besystematically  included  in  mission  reporting  and 
monitoring.  We  have  also  worked  to  ensure  that  the 
voices of civil society are heard at the Council table and 
have  worked  to  deepen  the  partnership  with  regional 
organizations.  However,  in  too  many  instances,  the 
Security Council, as a collective, has failed to deliver 
on promises to the people whom we are meant to serve.
In  Syria  and  Yemen,  where  two  of  the  worst 
humanitarian  disasters  of  our  time  are  unfolding, 
humanitarian access is being continuously denied and 
18-30214
27/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
international humanitarian law blatantly disregarded. In 
Syria, a political solution to the conflict is long overdue. 
Horrendous  crimes  are  being  committed  against  the 
civilian  population.  We  must  work  tirelessly  to  bring 
those responsible to justice, however long it may take. 
In Yemen, we have yet to see a full commitment by all 
parties to what the Security Council has clearly stated, 
namely, that there can be no military solution. Instead of 
committing to a political process, we see an escalation 
of the conflict and a deterioration in an already horrific 
humanitarian situation.
The suffering of the stateless Rohingya population 
of Myanmar continues. The Independent International 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  Myanmar  recently  presented 
solid evidence of the gravity of the atrocities committed 
by  the  Myanmar  military,  amounting  to  the  worst 
crimes  under  international  law.  Since  Myanmar  has 
systematically  failed  to  investigate,  prosecute  and 
condemn  perpetrators,  the  international  community 
must shoulder its responsibility and act to end impunity. 
The Rohingyas should be able to return voluntarily and 
in  safety;  the  Kofi  Annan  plan  must  be  implemented 
and  a  credible  peace  processes  for  the  outstanding 
conflicts must be pursued.
A Middle East peace process remains elusive, and 
instead,  a  rapid  negative  development  is  unfolding 
that  includes  continued  disregard  for  international 
humanitarian law. Seventy years after the 1947 resolution 
on  the  United  Nations  partition  plan  for  Palestine 
(resolution  181  (II)),  and  in  spite  of  calls  for  United 
Nations  resolutions  to  be  respected,  the  fulfilment  of 
the promise of a two-State solution — with Israel and 
Palestine living side by side in peace and security, and 
with Jerusalem as the capital of both States — seems 
very far away.
Russia’s  illegal  annexation  of  Crimea  and  the 
aggression in eastern Ukraine constitute violations of 
international  law.  To  date, that  aggression has caused 
more  than  10,000  deaths  and  unacceptable  human 
suffering. The commitments made in the Helsinki Final 
Act and the Budapest Memorandum must be honoured 
and the full implementation of the Minsk Agreements 
assured. In the absence of political solutions and in the 
face of ongoing conflicts, humanitarian efforts must be 
strengthened and protected.
We  pay  tribute  to  the  courageous  and  selfless 
efforts of all humanitarian workers worldwide. Sweden 
has continued to deliver on our commitment to support 
strong,  effective  and  principled  humanitarian  action 
worldwide. We have increased our financial contributions 
to the United Nations-led global humanitarian response 
system and improved the effectiveness of our common 
efforts through our engagement in the Grand Bargain 
process. We have also enhanced the way in which we 
link  our  humanitarian  assistance  with  longer-term 
development assistance.
Let  us  not  forget  that  there  are  also  positive 
dynamics,  reminding  us  to  keep  up  hope  and  never 
to  give  up  the  quest  for  peace,  including  in  the  most 
difficult circumstances and entrenched conflicts. In the 
Horn of Africa there is positive change — a testament 
to what a difference courageous leaders and people can 
make.  Let  us  encourage  and  recognize  that  historic 
development, support its fulfilment and allow it to serve 
as an inspiration to us all. On the Korean peninsula, there 
is also hope that a political solution will emerge from 
years  of  escalation,  high  tension  and  mistrust.  There 
is  unity  in  the  Security  Council  as  we  move  towards 
our common goal of complete denuclearization, peace 
and  reconciliation  on  the  Korean  peninsula  through 
diplomatic means.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
also  brings  hope.  The  commitments  that  we  have 
collectively made have put an enormous responsibility 
upon us all. We need the United Nations to assist us. The 
reforms initiated by the Secretary-General to make the 
United Nations more fit for purpose are creating better 
conditions  for  us  to  move  from  promises  to  action. 
Sweden  lives  up  to  our  promise  to  annually  provide 
1  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  income  to  official 
development assistance. More than 50 per cent of that 
is  channelled  to  or  through  the  multilateral  system. 
That reflects our belief in multilateralism and the 2030 
Agenda  as  part  of  our  central  plan  for  our  common 
future. It will require a multilateral system that is cost-
effective, coherent, accountable, agile and that delivers 
results for people.
The funding compact between the United Nations 
and its Member States provides a unique opportunity. 
We, the Member States, need to improve the quality of 
our funding to the United Nations. This year, Sweden 
has already taken steps to that end by signing multi-year 
agreements of core support for UN-Women, the United 
Nations Development Programme, UNICEF, the United 
Nations  Population  Fund,  the  Central  Emergency 
Response Fund, the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Relief 
28/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near 
East and the World Food Programme. Core funding is 
crucial for the independent delivery and efficiency of 
the development system.
at reducing risks and at breaking the stalemate plaguing 
disarmament diplomacy. The framework of the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is ideally 
suited for such efforts.
Another  global  promise  was  made  in  Paris,  when 
we all agreed to seriously and urgently address climate 
change.  The  gap  between  current  commitments  and 
the  required  emissions  reductions  under  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change is alarmingly large. The 
European Union has made important progress towards 
reaching the targets, but we must all do more. Sweden 
has adopted a climate-policy framework that establishes 
that Sweden will have net zero emissions in 2045. We 
have also taken a leading role in climate finance, and 
we remain firmly committed to mobilizing our share of 
the $100 billion annually by 2020.
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  established 
the  International  Criminal  Court  —  a  milestone  for 
accountability.  Political  will  and  cooperation  remain 
crucial for the Court in its efforts to carry out its mandate. 
We will continue to honour our promise to support the 
Court  and  its  independence  and  impartiality.  Sweden 
will  also  continue  to  stand  up  for  the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights. There can be no development 
without security, and no security without development, 
and we will not enjoy either of them without universal 
respect  for  human  rights.  Global  forced  migration 
remains  a  challenge  to  many  countries,  and  more 
cooperation  is  needed  to  share  the  responsibility  for 
the  world’s  refugees.  At  the  United  Nations  Summit 
for  Refugees  and  Migrants  on  19  September  2016,  it 
was decided to work out two global frameworks — one 
on refugees and one on migration. They will increase 
the  cooperation,  accountability  and  structure  needed 
to better manage the increasing refugee and migratory 
flows that we see today.
In  his  comprehensive  and  timely  agenda  for 
disarmament, the Secretary-General clearly articulated 
the fact that measures for arms control and disarmament 
play a critical role in the prevention of armed conflict. 
Ground-breaking international commitments have been 
reached.  At  the  same  time,  the  field  of  disarmament 
remains  filled  with  broken  and  unfulfilled  promises. 
We  are  witnessing  a  deeply  worrisome  nuclear 
renaissance,  with  vast  modernizations  of  nuclear 
arsenals  underway.  Nuclear-  and  non-nuclear-weapon 
States should heed the call of the Secretary-General to 
engage in a dialogue and in confidence-building aimed 
How can we work towards fulfilling our promises 
to  the  50  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  who  are 
women  and  girls?  Sweden  has  focused  on  promoting 
equal  access  to  rights,  representation  and  resources. 
Women’s  voices  cannot  be  ignored  anymore;  women 
must  be  included  everywhere,  all  the  time  and  at  all 
levels. Global normative frameworks and international 
commitments  on  gender  equality  and  human  rights 
are  increasingly  under  attack,  especially  sexual  and 
reproductive health and rights. More needs to be done 
to  combat  sexual  harassment  and  sexual  violence 
everywhere, in workplaces and in society at large. That 
pertains also to the United Nations system. The United 
Nations  zero-tolerance  policy  on  sexual  exploitation 
and abuse, as well as on sexual harassment and assault, 
must urgently be turned into practice. We welcome the 
Secretary-General’s Strategy on Gender Parity, which 
has made gender balance the new standard.
We are about to close the high-level segment of the 
General  Assembly.  In  the  very  first  intervention  last 
week, the Secretary-General outlined the challenges to 
our world: a deficit of trust and the need to show the 
added value of international cooperation by delivering 
on the promise of peace, defending human rights and 
driving  economic  and  social  progress  for  women  and 
men everywhere. International cooperation with a well-
functioning multilateralism at its core are the best tools 
we have. So let us be the generation that acted on our 
promises — not just as independent States, but as the 
United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Marc-André Blanchard, Chair of 
the Delegation of Canada.
Mr.  Blanchard  (Canada):  Canada  is  honoured 
to  help  close  the  general  debate  at  the  seventy-third 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Let  me  start  with  a 
simple question. Why does the United Nations matter? 
The  answer  is  also  simple.  The  magnitude  of  the 
contemporary challenges that the world is confronting, 
from  climate  change  to  terrorism,  from  economic 
inequality to irregular migration, from protracted crises 
to humanitarian emergencies, demands action. Each of 
those  challenges  is  systemic.  None  can  be  solved  by 
countries acting in isolation or bilaterally. All of them 
18-30214
29/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
require the world to work together. The United Nations 
is the only place where we all come together to tackle 
those challenges. Indeed, the General Assembly — our 
Assembly — is the only forum where representation is 
global. That representation not only bestows legitimacy, 
it affords opportunities to harness diversity of thought 
and  experience,  skills  and  knowledge,  and  ideas,  in 
support of better outcomes for all.
Since  the  beginning  of  the  post-war  project, 
Canada has been at the heart of the United Nations. We 
were among the drafters of the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights.  We  were  there  at  the  advent  of 
peacekeeping.  We  helped  to  build  the  institutions  at 
the  core  of  the  rules-based  international  order.  But 
those  rules  and  institutions  were  not,  and  should  not 
be,  seen  as  static  entities,  impervious  to  change. 
Notwithstanding  their  tremendous  achievements,  we 
should acknowledge that the benefits of those rules and 
institutions have not been evenly distributed. Too many 
remain excluded, economically, socially and politically, 
from the decision-making that affects their lives.
The  great  generation  that  came  out  of  the  ashes 
of the Second World War was great not because times 
were  simpler,  or  the  challenges  less  complex.  They 
were great because they found a way to work together, 
in common cause for collective outcomes. Their work 
helped to ensure stability and relative peace and security 
for over 70 years. We owe it to them, and to ourselves, 
to continue to work together to make our multilateral 
world  order  more  efficient,  fairer  and  more  inclusive. 
That  is  why  supporting  the  implementation  of  the 
current United Nations reforms, led by our Secretary-
General, António Guterres, is so essential.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is 
a phenomenal achievement of the United Nations. For 
the first time in history, we agreed on a comprehensive 
strategic plan to achieve a sustainable world. The plan 
brings  us  into  uncharted  territory.  Sticking  to  old 
approaches will not help us meet its targets.
We  should  find  new  ways  of  doing  things  and 
for  breaking  silos  open,  not  only  here  at  the  United 
Nations  but  also  between  Governments  and  civil 
society,  between  Governments  and  the  private  sector, 
between North and South and between the traditional 
so-called like-minded and non-traditional like-minded. 
We should do things differently at the United Nations 
and in our Governments so as to better deliver results 
for people on the ground. We should hold fresh, frank 
and inclusive discussions. We should develop a greater 
sense  of  urgency.  We  should  reconsider  our  approach 
to  risk  —  inaction  is  a  risk  for  Governments  and 
people,  but  also  for  investors.  We  should  identify  the 
opportunities in our challenges. We should look at new 
partnerships to harness new opportunities.
As  our  Secretary-General  says,  climate  change  is 
the defining issue of our time. A significant component 
of the response to climate change requires new, greener 
and  more  resilient  infrastructure.  That  represents  a 
$26  trillion  opportunity  for  us  all.  To  harness  that 
opportunity,  starting  with  the  most  vulnerable —  the 
small island States — we must all work together with 
scientists,  multilateral  institutions,  regional  banks, 
investors and civil society like never before.
Not  building  essential  infrastructure  is  not  an 
option.  As  Prime  Minister  Trudeau  and  others  have 
said,  developing  countries  should  not  be  punished 
for  a  problem  they  did  not  create,  nor  should  they 
be  deprived  the  opportunities  for  clean  growth  that 
developed nations are now pursuing. And we should all 
support Africa as it works to create opportunities for its 
youth and strives to meet the ambitions of its Agenda 
2063  of  the  African  Union  through  greater  economic 
integration  and  prosperity.  Doing  so  is  key  to  a  more 
secure world. Greater and more shared prosperity leads 
to greater peace.
(spoke in French)
Bringing people together is at the heart of Canada’s 
national identity. In Canada, we have come to understand 
that diversity is our strength. The indigenous peoples in 
Canada  are  the  bedrock  of  our  diversity.  They  speak 
more  than  60  different  languages,  and  their  cultures 
are some of the richest on the continent. One in every 
five  Canadians  was  born  outside  the  country.  Our 
largest urban centres are among the most cosmopolitan 
on earth. Over 50 per cent of the populations of both 
Vancouver and Toronto were born outside Canada.
Canada  has  become  home  to  refugees  and  new 
Canadians for decades. While we are very proud to have 
welcomed more than  50,000 Syrian refugees over the 
past three years, we are fully aware that many countries 
have also shown great leadership in welcoming many 
more. I must say that one of the things that makes me 
very  proud  is  that  40  per  cent  of  the  Syrian  refugees 
that we have welcomed have been directly sponsored by 
private citizens of Canada, who wanted to do their part.
30/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
Of course, our track record in promoting economic 
and  social  integration  will  always  require  work  and 
action.  While  we  have  made  important  progress,  we 
have  made  mistakes  and  still  face  challenges  —  the 
most  important  of  which  remains  reconciliation  with 
First Nations. We in Canada understand that we need 
to  listen  and  learn  in  order  to  contribute  to  better 
outcomes.  It  is  what  we  intend  to  do,  both  at  home 
and abroad.
(spoke in English)
We are using our Group of 7 (G-7) presidency this 
year both to listen and learn from others, in addition to 
innovating and breaking down silos. For the first time, 
in order to ensure that Governments were delivering in 
a  more  cohesive  manner,  Canada  convened  ministers 
of finance and ministers of international development 
together to explore new ways of financing development. 
We  can  no  longer  afford  to  have  discussions  at  the 
United Nations that are distinct from those at the World 
Bank or the International Monetary Fund.
We  also  felt  very  strongly  that  the  G-7  needed 
to  tackle  the  issue  of  climate  resilience  and  disaster 
recovery. While Canada has its own extensive coast ines 
and borders on three oceans, we invited small island, 
coastal  African  and  South-East  Asian  States  to  that 
critical  conversation.  Building  on  the  United  Nations 
Ocean Conference, that discussion produced a charter 
seeking to ban the use of plastics in our oceans and is 
paving the way towards the sustainable blue economy 
conference in November in Nairobi that Canada is so 
proud to be co-hosting with Kenya.
We  partnered  with  the  World  Bank  and  other 
countries  to  raise  close  to  $3.8  billion  to  reduce 
the  barriers  that  women  and  girls  face  in  accessing 
education in conflict and fragile States. Their inclusion 
will lead to exceptional benefits for their communities, 
and by extension, for the world. Last week, here at the 
United Nations, another $527 million were pledged by 
four  other  countries.  We  also  need  capital  that  flows 
faster and at scale in emerging and frontier markets. For 
that reason, we are also working together with partners 
from across the United Nations and the private sector to 
unlock capital that can connect people to opportunities.
As  a  direct  result  of  the  work  that  we  do  here 
at  the  United  Nations,  just  a  few  days  ago  at  the 
high-level  meeting  on  financing 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs),  Prime  Minister  Trudeau 
announced  the  establishment  of  a  Toronto  affiliate 
of the Global Infrastructure Hub to do precisely that: 
leverage  Canadian  expertise  in  infrastructure  to  help 
connect  capital  to  projects.  Those  projects  fuel  long-
term  economic  growth  and  support  the  transition 
to  a  low-carbon  economy,  while  making  progress 
towards  achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals and improving the representation of women and 
marginalized groups in sustainable infrastructure.
Our  commitment  to  multilateralism  —  notably 
United Nations peacekeeping — includes a commitment 
to renewal and reform and to making the system that 
our  grandparents  built  fit  for  purpose  in  the  twenty-
first  century.  Canada  is  proud  to  have  increased  its 
contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations 
and  to  have  adopted  smart  pledging  —  sending  the 
people and equipment that are most needed to the places 
where they are most useful.
Canada  is  spearheading  the  Elsie  Initiative  for 
Women in Peace Operations — a practical plan to act 
on our shared promise to double the number of women 
in  peacekeeping  operations.  We  set  that  as  a  goal, 
first and foremost, because of our shared belief in the 
fundamental equal rights of women. We also know that 
having women in the ranks — and in charge — makes 
peacekeeping  more  effective  and  its  results  more 
durable.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  our  new 
partners,  Ghana  and  Zambia,  to  better  recruit,  train, 
retain  and  promote  women  across  all  of  our  police 
and  military  forces.  For  the  international  rules-based 
order  to  work  for  all,  the  rules  need  to  apply  to  all. 
Accountability cannot be a luxury afforded only when 
circumstances allow.
As  is  the  case  everywhere,  Canada’s  actions  in 
Myanmar,  Syria,  Ukraine  and  Venezuela  are  guided 
by  an  unequivocal  commitment  to  protecting  and 
promoting human rights. The crimes against humanity 
committed against the Rohingya of Myanmar, including 
the  systematic  use  of  rape  as  a  weapon  of  war,  are 
utterly unacceptable. Canada’s Parliament unanimously 
adopted  a  motion  naming  those  crimes  genocide  and 
urging  the  Security  Council  to  refer  those  appalling 
acts to the International Criminal Court. The plight of 
the Rohingya people demands a response.
Canada is appalled by the crimes that the Al-Assad 
regime in Syria has committed against its own people, 
including, most horrifically, the use of banned chemical 
weapons.  Syrians 
rightly  demand  accountability 
and  hope  for  an  enduring  political  solution.  The 
18-30214
31/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
White  Helmets,  many  of  whom  gathered  evidence 
of  chemical-weapon  attacks  at  the  risk  of  their  lives, 
rightly expect our support in seeking justice.
In  Canada’s  own  hemisphere,  an  Organization  of 
American  States  panel  of  independent  international 
experts  carefully  documented  many  of  the  crimes 
being committed in Venezuela by the Maduro regime 
against its own people. Here too, Venezuelans hope for 
accountability.  For  that  reason,  we  and  our  regional 
partners took the exceptional step of referring that case 
to the International Criminal Court.
(spoke in French)
The ongoing illegal annexation and occupation of 
Crimea is a clear breach of international law. Respect 
for  State  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  are  not 
mere  notions;  they  are  the  fundamental  principles  of 
the Charter of the United Nations. We must not allow 
Russia to continue its destabilizing actions.
Our determination to ensure that the perpetrators 
of  those  serious  crimes  in  Myanmar,  Syria,  Ukraine 
and  Venezuela  are  held  accountable  is  accompanied 
by  a  deep  commitment  to  improve  the  humanitarian 
situation for the millions of people affected, both within 
those countries, as well as across those regions.
We recognize that the disproportionate share of the 
responsibility  for  providing  lifesaving  support  to  so 
many people has fallen on neighbouring countries, and 
we  assure  them  that  they  can  continue  to  rely  on  our 
assistance. We will continue to contribute to the work 
of the United Nations in addressing those challenges.
(spoke in English)
When  the  international  rules-based  order  was 
designed, the General Assembly mandated the Security 
Council  to  authorize  the  use  of  force,  if  necessary, 
to  keep  the  peace  and  to  keep  us  safe.  Seventy  years 
later, that remains its core responsibility. The Security 
Council’s  agenda 
is  replete  with  persistent  and 
emerging  challenges.  Some  security  threats  we  know 
all  too  well;  others  are  emerging;  and  others  still  we 
have yet to anticipate. But all are systemic and require 
collective responses. Be they old or new, those threats 
will  continue  to  test  the  Security  Council’s  ability  to 
adapt  and  respond.  That  is  why  Canada  is  seeking  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  in  2021-
2022.  We  are  confident  that  we  can  contribute  to 
effective, carefully considered global responses.
We  have  a  proven  record  of  working  with  other 
Member  States  to  bring  fresh  ideas  and  innovative 
approaches  to  the  tackling  of  complex  problems, 
from peacekeeping and policing to peacebuilding and 
transitions.  We  are  confident  that  we  can  harness  the 
diversity of ideas and experience necessary to fashion 
forward-looking  approaches  that  can  work.  After  all, 
bringing people together is our calling card. A capacity 
for cooperation defines our national character. Inclusion 
is  part  of  our  identity.  When  Canada  has  served  on 
the  Security  Council  in  the  past,  we  have  done  so 
inclusively.  We  brought  other  States  and  civil  society 
into  the  conversation.  We  championed  the  women 
and  peace  and  security  agenda  and  human  security. 
We fought for the protection of civilians caught in the 
crossfire of armed conflict.
If elected to the Security Council, we will bring to 
bear our long-standing dedication to peacekeeping, our 
more than  30 years of service as Chair of the Special 
Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations,  and  our 
active membership in the Peacebuilding Commission. 
If elected, we will work with others to tackle climate 
change and violent extremism, and to promote economic 
security and the empowerment of women and girls. We 
will  champion  inclusion  and  accountability,  openness 
and  transparency  in  all  of  the  Security  Council’s 
deliberations.  We  will  help  to  find  solutions  so  as  to 
build  a  safer,  fairer,  and  more  secure  world  where 
the benefits of the international rules-based order are 
distributed  more  evenly.  We  are  confident  that  the 
institutions that we have spent more than seven decades 
building can be renewed and revitalized. But we can do 
that effectively only if we do it together.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Jean-Claude Félix do Rego, 
Chair of the Delegation of the Republic of Benin.
Mr.  Do  Rego  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
the honour to deliver the following statement on behalf 
of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Patrice  Talon,  President  of  the 
Republic of Benin, who had to leave New York because 
of other commitments.
“On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  Benin  and 
on  my  own  behalf,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my 
warmest  congratulations  to  the  President  on  her 
well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We 
assure her of Benin’s full support.
32/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
“I would also like to congratulate Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák, her predecessor, on the quality of the work 
accomplished  during  his  mandate.  I  should  also 
like to greet and express my support to Mr. António 
Guterres,  Secretary-General,  and  to  once  again 
wish him every success.
“I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  commend 
the  holding  here  on  Monday, 
24  September,  of  the  high-level  plenary  meeting 
devoted to the theme of world peace in honour of 
the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela (see 
A/73/PV.5). Indeed, Nelson Mandela embodies the 
core  values  on  which  the  United  Nations  is  built. 
The  fight  against  all  forms  of  discrimination  and 
the  defence  of  the  fundamental  rights  of  all,  the 
sanctity of diversity recognized as a rich resource, 
tolerance,  forgiveness  and  reconciliation,  and 
the  fight  for  the  recognition  of  the  dignity  of  all 
were  all  key  aspects  of  his  commitment  to  social 
justice, freedom and peace in South Africa. Africa 
will  always  have  a  debt  of  immense  gratitude  to 
that  great  humanist,  whose  name  will  forever  be 
engraved  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of  Africans  of 
all  generations.  It  has  indeed  given  shape  to  the 
dream  of  an  Africa  that  stands  on  its  feet,  fully 
itself, bringing its discourse and experience to the 
development and humanization of our planet.
“Besides  Nelson  Mandela,  I  would  also  like 
to  pay  tribute  to  another  great  African,  the  late 
Kofi Annan, the seventh Secretary-General of the 
United  Nations,  whose  charisma  and  leadership 
enabled  our  Organization  to  make  great  strides. 
His  tireless  commitment  to  world  peace  renders 
him equally worthy of our gratitude.
“The  year  2018  has  been  particularly  trying 
for several countries. In that respect, I would like 
to  reiterate  my  condolences  and  to  express  my 
sympathy  to  the  Governments  and  the  peoples  of 
the  Americas,  France,  Indonesia,  Madagascar, 
the  Netherlands,  the  Philippines,  Germany  and 
Australia, as well as to all the island countries that 
fell victim to natural disasters this year.
“Faced  with  an  increasingly  turbulent  world, 
beset by crises and difficulties of all kinds, countries 
have a duty to act in a concerted manner and with 
strong  determination.  That  is  why  I  welcome  the 
theme of this session, “Making the United Nations 
relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and 
shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies.” From my country’s point of 
view,  that  theme  impels  nations  to  confront  their 
responsibilities and urges them to work together in 
a  multilateral  framework  to  find  appropriate  and 
sustainable solutions to contemporary challenges.
should 
be 
based 
primarily 
“Benin continues to believe that international 
relations 
on 
increasingly  close  cooperation  among  States, 
as  well  as  on  the  harmonious  functioning  of 
international  organizations.  One  major  function 
of  such  organizations  is  to  ensure  the  protection 
of  common  interests  and  collective  security.  To 
question  multilateralism  would  therefore  be  a 
fatal  error  in  a  world  that  will  henceforth  forever 
be interconnected.
the  compact 
“Benin  also  welcomes  the  conclusion  of  the 
negotiations on a global compact for safe, orderly 
and regular migration here at the United Nations in 
July, and we look forward to the definitive adoption 
of 
in  Marrakech, 
Morocco.  It  should  be  underscored  that  that 
process  demonstrates,  once  again,  the  power  of 
multilateralism  and  our  ability  to  compromise  on 
difficult issues that go beyond the narrow confines 
of our respective national sovereignties.
in  December 
“The  adoption  of 
the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and  its  implementation 
represent  an  important  step  in  promoting  the 
development  of  States  and  the  livelihoods  of 
peoples. Accelerating its implementation is a major 
imperative for the Government of Benin, which is 
working to find innovative mechanisms to enable 
it  to  have  access  to  resources  that  will  ensure 
financing for the implementation. Those resources, 
which  exist  in  sufficient  quantities  on  the  market 
but  remain  difficult  to  access,  will  supplement 
funding and assistance from development partners.
“I  would  like,  however,  to  emphasize  that, 
from  my  Government’s  point  of  view,  improving 
governance  is  a  prerequisite  for  achieving  the 
objectives of our Revealing Benin programme and 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  This  is  why 
the fight against impunity and corruption is at the 
heart  of  my  Government’s  actions  and  the  work 
undertaken by all our national institutions. In the 
course of this year, our legislative arsenal has been 
strengthened, and a special court has been created 
18-30214
33/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
and made operational to crack down on economic 
crime and terrorism.
“Those  measures  are  necessary  in  order  to 
ensure  that  mobilized  financial  resources  serve 
their  intended  purposes.  They  also  aim  to  make 
national  stakeholders  more  honest  and  to  ensure 
the  quality  of  public  spending.  My  Government’s 
ambition is to ensure that all citizens have access to 
drinking water, primary health care and education, 
and  can  be  ensured  a  decent  life.  Realizing  that 
legitimate  ambition  justifies  the  establishment  of 
a vast rural water supply project and an insurance 
initiative for reinforcing human capital, which seek 
to  provide  social  security  to  all,  particularly  to 
those who are most disadvantaged.
“The Government of Benin is also implementing 
measures to ensure better health care for the entire 
population. They include guaranteeing the quality 
of drugs sold for therapeutic purposes, which is a 
major public-health requirement. Benin has begun a 
relentless fight against counterfeit and poor-quality 
medicines  circulating  in  its  territory.  In  order  to 
overcome  that  scourge  of  clearly  transnational 
dimensions,  it  is  important  that  the  international 
community  mobilize  itself  within  the  framework 
of  a  global  partnership  against  impunity  and 
indifference  in  order  to  ensure  equality  of  access 
to high-quality medicines for rich and poor alike.
is  committed 
“Furthermore,  Benin 
to  a 
tourism  development  policy,  which  can  produce 
rapid growth with a high social impact. Given its 
rich  culture  and  historic  legacy,  Benin  has  begun 
developing flagship projects in the field of tourism, 
combining  our  heritage,  culture,  modernity  and 
openness  to  the  world.  In  order  to  create  the 
conditions enabling tourism to become one of the 
drivers of our economic growth and socioeconomic 
development,  Benin  is  in  the  process  of  building 
three  museums  equipped  with  the  most  modern 
means of conservation and exhibition to reveal, in a 
new spirit, its contribution and role in the evolution 
of humankind to the world.
“With the restitution of our cultural property, 
Benin  wishes  to  reclaim  the  epic  of  its  kings  and 
elite  female  warrior  corps  or  Amazons  and  the 
remains  of  the  largest  West  African  port  in  the 
history of slavery — as well as the wealth of arts 
and culture of its voodoo heritage — and tell it to 
the world. Many of the works that bear witness to 
our  rich  past  are  currently  being  held  abroad  in 
public and private collections. In that context, their 
restitution  takes  on  a  restorative  and  economic 
dimension. That is why, since 2016, Benin has been 
strongly committed to achieving the restitution of 
cultural  property  to  their  countries  of  origin.  In 
that  long-term,  legitimate  struggle,  strong  action 
in  terms  of  international  cooperation  is  required. 
Benin therefore welcomes the positive reaction on 
the part of the authorities of the French Republic to 
its restitution demands.
“However, 
the  question  goes  far  beyond 
Franco-Beninese  relations.  A  number  of  other 
countries  face  the  same  problems.  Nevertheless, 
it  is  possible  to  note  that  those  issues  —  beyond 
their  historical,  sociological  or  philosophical 
dimensions — are not well covered in international 
law. Benin would like to invite the United Nations 
to consider, in a positive and cooperative manner, 
the possibility of adopting a binding international 
instrument on that issue.
“The  preservation  of 
international  peace 
and  security  represents  a  major  and  constant 
strategic  axis  of  Benin’s  foreign  policy.  My 
country  considers  peacekeeping  operations  to  be 
one  of  the  most  important  tools  that  the  United 
Nations  has  at  its  disposal  to  achieve  peace  and 
security. That is why, despite our limited capacity 
and  means,  my  country  has  been  associated 
with  international  initiatives  to  prevent  crises 
and  maintain  peace  for  decades.  My  delegation 
therefore  welcomes  the  recent  adoption  by  the 
General Assembly of the proposed restructuring of 
the  United  Nations  peace  and  security  pillar.  We 
also  strongly  support  the  actions  initiated  by  the 
Secretary-General to increase the effectiveness of 
peacekeeping operations through the definition of 
more precise mandates by the Security Council and 
the  establishment  of  stronger  partnerships  with 
regional and subregional organizations.
“Benin  welcomes  and  strongly  supports  the 
United  Nations  zero-tolerance  policy  to  combat 
sexual  exploitation  and  abuse  in  the  context  of 
peacekeeping  operations.  As  a  troop-contributing 
country,  Benin  is  committed  to  fully  playing 
our  role  in  that  regard.  My  delegation  remains 
concerned,  however,  about  the  steady  decline  in 
resources allocated to peacekeeping. The principle 
34/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
of  doing  more  with  less  is  not  appropriate  there, 
given the increasing complexity of the threats faced 
by peacekeepers today on the ground.
“In  addition,  my  delegation  regrets  the  lack 
of  progress  on  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform. We reaffirm our support for the Ezulwini 
Consensus,  which  calls  for  the  allocation  of  two 
permanent  Security  Council  seats 
to  Africa, 
including the right to veto. We are convinced that 
the equitable representation of Member States in the 
Security Council would lead to the more inclusive 
and effective management of major contemporary 
political issues.
“Benin, having just adopted a law on radiation 
protection,  wishes  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  establish 
a  universal  plan  for  the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
strictly civilian purposes and reiterates its support 
for  measures  aimed  at  establishing  a  nuclear-
weapon-free zone in the Middle East.
“I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  without 
reaffirming Benin’s support for the United Nations 
efforts to create a viable Palestinian State with the 
attributes  of  full  international  sovereignty,  living 
side-by-side and in perfect harmony with the State 
of Israel.
“Long  live  the  United  Nations  in  the  service 
of peace, security, the promotion of human rights, 
democracy and sustainable development!”
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on Her Excellency Mrs. Maria Helena Lopes De Jesus 
Pires, Chair of the Delegation of Timor-Leste.
Mrs. Lopes De Jesus Pires (Timor-Leste) (spoke 
in Portuguese; English interpretation provided by the 
delegation): I have the honour to address the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session  on  behalf  of 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Dionísio  da  Costa  Babo  Soares, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Timor-
Leste. 
First  of  all,  allow  me  to  join  our  voices  to  those 
of previous speakers and present, on behalf of Timor-
Leste,  our  deepest  condolences  to  the  people  of 
Indonesia, particularly to the families of the victims of 
the earthquake and tsunami in Palu, Sulawesi.
I  would  like  to  start  by  congratulating  Her 
Excellency  Mrs.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on 
her election as President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-third session and also wish her success in this 
session under the theme: “Making the United Nations 
relevant  for  all  people:  global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibility  for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable 
societies”. Taking into account the fact that this is only 
the fourth time in the history of the Organization that a 
woman is leading this important body, I believe that the 
President will also serve as an important role model for 
women and girls worldwide. I would like to assure her 
of Timor-Leste’s support.
I  would  also  like  to  extend  our  gratitude  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  for  all  his  work 
towards  achieving  sustaining  peace  and  preventing 
conflict.  Timor-Leste  also  commends  the  manner  in 
which  the  election  of  the  seventy-third  President  of 
the General Assembly took place under the leadership 
of  President  Lajčák,  which  provided  an  excellent 
precedent  for  future  elections.  We  appreciate  the 
theme chosen for this session and believe that it is most 
appropriate. The theme draws our attention to the need 
to  unite  peoples  at  a  time  when  we  are  witnessing  a 
gradual  but  unquestionable  breakdown  in  the  world 
order,  which  is  leading  to  even  more  inequality  and 
insecurity  and  further  undermining  faith  in  national 
and international institutions.
At  a  time  when  solidarity  among  peoples  has 
assumed  extreme  importance  in  the  global  agenda, 
feelings of helplessness and impotence are evident, which 
divides peoples and provokes hostility. That is why the 
theme  of  this  session  is  so  important  and  appropriate 
because  of  its  focus  on  inclusiveness,  equality  and 
global  leadership.  Timor-Leste  is  undoubtedly  the 
leading example of the importance of an order based on 
international law. Next year, our country will celebrate 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  popular  consultation 
organized by the United Nations, in which our people 
voted courageously for independence.
We cannot forget or fail to pay tribute to the then 
Secretary-General, our dear friend the late Kofi Annan. 
It  was  with  deep  sorrow  and  sadness  that  our  people 
received the news of his death. As Secretary-General, 
Kofi  Annan  played  a  leading  role  in  conducting  the 
negotiations  between  Portugal  and  Indonesia,  which 
culminated  in  the  signing  of  the  agreement  of  5  May 
1999, giving rise to the popular consultation in Timor-
Leste. That is a significant milestone that we will also 
be commemorating next year.
18-30214
35/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
Recently, the United Nations again played a major 
role  in  Timor-Leste’s  future.  For  the  first  time,  a 
Conciliation  Commission,  established  in  2016  under 
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 
succeeded in the positive resolution of a long-standing 
dispute  between  Timor-Leste  and  Australia  about  the 
definition  of  our  maritime  boundaries.  That  was  a 
process that took about a year and a half and culminated 
in a new maritime boundary treaty, signed in this Hall 
on 6 March of this year, in the presence of Secretary-
General António Guterres. The new treaty has enabled 
us to consolidate our national sovereignty and establish 
an  important  model  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
international  disputes.  In  a  time  of  increasing  global 
geopolitical 
the 
success  of  the  first  conciliation  process  in  history 
assumes  an  unprecedented  international  significance. 
Timor-Leste  encourages  other  Member  States 
to 
consider that mechanism for the peaceful settlement of 
maritime disputes. We believe that the mechanism will 
play an important role in appeasing global tensions on 
our seas.
tensions  over  maritime  disputes, 
Our  world  faces  many  challenges,  which  can  be 
effectively  resolved  through  dialogue,  cooperation 
and on the basis of international law. One of the main 
challenges  of  our  times  is,  without  a  doubt,  climate 
change. That is an issue that Secretary-General António 
Guterres  has  identified  as  the  defining  issue  of  our 
time.  Timor-Leste  is  confident  that  the  international 
community  will  act  as  one  in  responding  to  that 
existential threat to our planet.
I take this opportunity to highlight the importance 
of active and extensive cooperation aimed at pursuing 
urgent  and  real  action  to  deal  with  the  threat  facing 
small  island  developing  States,  including  those  in  the 
Pacific region, which are particularly vulnerable to the 
effects of climate change.
I also would like to emphasize a fundamental issue 
that also requires the attention of the entire international 
community,  namely,  global  migration.  Conflicts, 
wars, situations of inequality and climate change have 
resulted in an intense migratory movement throughout 
the world.
Timor-Leste  and  the  g7+  countries  know  that 
sustainable  development  cannot  be  achieved  without 
peace.  That  is  why  we  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  the 
17 Sustainable Development Goals will be unattainable 
if we are not able to build peaceful, just and inclusive 
societies.  We  hope  that  the  assessment  of  the  2030 
Agenda will take into consideration those concerns so 
that  the  fragile  and  vulnerable  countries  will  not  be 
left behind.
reforms  of 
the 
Timor-Leste  welcomes 
the 
the 
United  Nations  system  under 
leadership  of 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres.  Following  the 
implementation of the plan to enhance the role of the 
United Nations resident coordinators, Timor-Leste will 
contribute a modest amount over the next five years. We 
also support, without reservations, the reforms under the 
peace and security pillar. We commend the Secretary-
General for his initiative on Action for Peace, including 
the  Declaration  of  Shared  Commitments  on  United 
Nations  Peacekeeping  Operations,  which  Timor-Leste 
has signed. In order to contribute to peace operations, 
Timor-Leste is currently investing in the training of its 
police and military personnel — with a special focus on 
strengthening the representation of women — in order 
to increase its capacity and possibilities for contributing 
in the near future to United Nations peace missions.
the 
international  community 
However,  despite  our  shared  efforts  aimed  at 
strengthening  peacekeeping  missions,  we  continue 
to  see  conflicts  and  war  in  the  world,  which  fills  us 
with  concern.  The  ongoing  war  in  Syria  is  a  tragedy 
that is causing irreparable human damage and terrible 
suffering  for  the  people  living  in  that  region.  Timor-
Leste  urges 
to  do 
everything possible to put an end to that war and to stop 
the  death  and  destruction  in  that  country.  The  people 
of Western Sahara are still being denied their right to 
self-determination.  We  welcome  the  appointment  of 
Mr. Horst Köhler as Personal Envoy of the Secretary-
General  for  Western  Sahara.  We  also  appeal  to  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  the  Frente  Popular  para 
la  Liberación  de  Saguia  el-Hamra  y  de  Río  de  Oro 
to  establish  a  serious  dialogue  aimed  at  reaching  a 
mutually  beneficial  political  solution  that  will  enable 
the people of Western Sahara to exercise their right to 
self-determination through a referendum organized by 
the United Nations.
Timor-Leste urges the international community to 
redouble  its  efforts  with  the  parties  concerned  aimed 
at  reaching  a  just,  peaceful  and  lasting  solution  to 
the  question  of  Palestine.  We  reaffirm  Timor-Leste’s 
support  for  the  two-State  solution  and  the  urgent 
protection of the civilian population. Timor-Leste also 
remains  concerned  about  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed on Cuba for more than 
36/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
six decades, which has had a considerable impact on the 
lives of the people and the development of the country. 
Our region welcomes the continued dialogue for peace 
and  reconciliation  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  and  we 
hope  that  the  dialogue  between  the  parties  concerned 
will bring an end to the proliferation of nuclear weapons 
in our region.
The President took the Chair.
Allow me to take the opportunity to talk about the 
current situation in Timor-Leste. On 12 May, we held 
early legislative elections. The elections were held in a 
peaceful environment and resulted in a new Government 
led  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Taur  Matan  Ruak.  After  a 
period  of  economic  stagnation  owing  to  the  political 
situation, my country is resuming its development and 
economic growth and is on the path towards normalcy. 
The socioeconomic foundations that we need in order 
to create a prosperous and united society have already 
been established. With the recent adoption of the general 
Government  budget,  we  hope  to  continue  to  improve 
our social, communications and housing infrastructure 
and, in turn, develop opportunities for investment and 
economic development.
Another  important  step  for  Timor-Leste  was  the 
Government’s  decision  to  acquire  30  per  cent  of  the 
capital  in  the  consortium  that  operates  the  Greater 
Sunrise  gas  field  in  the  Timor  Sea,  which  gives  us 
the  possibility  of  connecting  a  pipeline  to  Timorese 
territory  and  accelerating  the  development  of  the 
southern coast. It was, once again, our historic leader 
and  former  President  of  the  Republic  and  Prime 
Minister,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Xanana  Gusmão,  who 
successfully conducted the negotiations.
We  continue  to  have  strong  relations  with  our 
neighbours  Indonesia  and  Australia.  We  are  also 
deepening  our  cooperation  with  the  countries  of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  and  we 
await patiently a decision on our request to accede to 
that  organization.  Timor-Leste  remains  committed  to 
strengthening  ties  of  friendship  and  cooperation  with 
the countries of the Community of Portuguese-speaking 
Countries  and  hopes  that  the  Portuguese  language, 
spoken  by  nearly  250  million  people  worldwide,  will 
also become an official language of the United Nations.
Our  country  has  also  signed  the  Treaty  on  the 
Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  and  we  encourage 
all Member States to do so. We live in a world that is 
different from that of the immediate post-Second World 
War  period,  when  the  United  Nations  was  created. 
The  current  times  are  full  of  challenges,  and  we  all 
need,  more  than  ever,  to  be  prepared  to  meet  those 
challenges and our aspirations, as well as to defend the 
value  of  multilateralism.  My  country  firmly  believes 
in the United Nations and in the international system. 
As  such,  we  are  committed  to  working  cooperatively 
towards international peace, security and prosperity for 
the well-being of humankind.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  call  on 
His Excellency Mr. Ali Naseer Mohamed, Chair of the 
Delegation of the Republic of Maldives.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  I  wish  to  convey  my 
delegation’s congratulations to you, Madam President, 
on your election as President of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-third session. Your election to preside over 
the  Assembly  represents  the  progress  we  are  making 
towards gender equality, a momentum that we need to 
enhance at the global level. Yet the fact that you are only 
the fourth woman to do so shows how far we still have 
to go. I also wish to commend the Secretary-General, 
Mr.  António  Guterres,  for  his  leadership  in  steering 
the  Organization  during  these  challenging  times.  The 
theme that you have chosen for the session, “Making the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable, and 
sustainable societies”, is most appropriate.
Now  more 
than  ever  before,  we  need 
the 
international  community  to  work  together  to  build 
resilient  societies  in  order  to  ensure  that  everyone 
has  a  fair  share  of  the  benefits  of  development.  In 
order  to  achieve  that,  we  need  the  United  Nations  to 
assume  greater  leadership  in  unifying  our  collective 
efforts. The focus should be on building communities 
that  can  withstand  shocks  and  bounce  back  stronger. 
Recognizing that, the cornerstone of the development 
strategy of the Maldives is to build resilience: economic 
resilience, 
resilience,  environmental 
resilience and, indeed, political resilience.
institutional 
The  Maldives  is  an  old  nation,  but  a  young 
democracy.  In  our  journey  towards  the  consolidation 
of  our  democracy,  23  September  of  this  year  was  an 
extraordinary  day.  On  that  day,  the  Maldives  held  its 
third multi-party presidential election. The election took 
place peacefully and seamlessly, with a voter turnout of 
89 per cent. It was a moment that made every Maldivian 
proud  of  how  far  we  have  come  and  the  accelerated 
progress that the country has achieved. Following the 
18-30214
37/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
election, the Maldives is now going through the process 
of the transfer of power from one elected Government 
to the other.
The  accelerated  pace  of  democratization  in  the 
Maldives  is  moving  in  tandem  with  an  even  faster 
growth in social and economic development. From its 
humble beginning as one of the poorest countries in the 
world  at  its  independence  in  1965  to  its  status  today 
as an upper middle-income country, the Maldives is a 
success  story  by  any  measure.  The  Maldives  has  one 
of  the  highest  human  development  indicators  in  our 
region,  with  nearly  universal  literacy  rates,  universal 
immunization  and  the  lowest  infant  mortality  and 
maternal  mortality  rates.  The  country  has  eradicated 
diseases such as polio, measles, malaria and lymphatic 
filariasis, although various types of non-communicable 
diseases are emerging as new challenges.
The progress in the social sector can be sustained 
and  expanded  only  through  strong  economic  growth. 
The  outgoing  President  Abdulla  Yameen  Abdul 
Gayoom,  in  his  five  years  in  office,  focused  on 
developing  and  modernizing  critical  infrastructure 
in  order  to  stimulate  growth  in  the  country’s  main 
industries.  The  newly  expanded  runway  at  our  main 
international airport and the ongoing expansion of the 
airport  terminal  will  significantly  boost  the  tourism 
industry and create jobs and increasing wealth. Just a 
few  weeks  ago  we  opened  a  bridge  that  connects  our 
capital city, Malé, with the main international airport 
and a reclaimed suburb of the capital, Hulhumalé. That 
has transformed the physical landscape of the capital by 
consolidating three separate populations, thus helping 
to achieve economies of scale and better adaptation to 
climate change.
At  the  same  time,  we  cannot  create  islands  of 
progress  and  prosperity  without  partnering  with 
our  friends  through  the  kind  of  partnerships  that  are 
mutually  beneficial,  based  on  mutual  trust  and  that 
are  envisaged  in  various  international  agendas  and 
agreements,  such  as  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda,  the 
Samoa  Pathway  and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  The  national  developmental  efforts  of  small 
islands  developing  States,  such  as  the  Maldives,  need 
support  in  the  form  of  capacity-building,  transfer  of 
technology,  and  access  to  finance  in  order  to  achieve 
the goals set out in international development agendas.
The United Nations can assume a greater level of 
leadership in fostering such support. In order to be able 
to  do  that,  the  Secretariat  also  needs  the  support  of 
the Assembly, so that it can assist countries in special 
situations, such as small island developing States, with 
a  more  balanced  allocation  of  resources.  The  United 
Nations is the engine room of multilateralism, and the 
existence  of  small  States,  especially  the  small  island 
developing States, depends on multilateral norms. And 
yet,  the  principles  of  international  law  that  govern 
friendly  relations  and  cooperation  among  States  are 
being  challenged  at  a  fundamental  level.  There  is, 
therefore, a need for countries, big and small, to return 
to the right side of the law.
The  State  of  Palestine  is  one  place  where  the 
occupying  Power  challenges  international  law  and 
norms on a daily basis with a sense of impunity. Today, 
we  once  again  join  many  other  countries  in  calling 
for  a  permanent  end  to  the  unlawful  occupation  of 
Palestinian  lands  and  for  allowing  the  Palestinian 
people  the  possibility  of  exercising  their  legitimate 
right 
to  self-determination.  The  Maldives  firmly 
believes  that  lasting  peace  can  be  achieved  only  with 
a  two-State  solution  in  which  the  State  of  Palestine 
achieves its sovereignty within the 1967 borders, with 
East Jerusalem as its capital. Unilateral measures that 
go  against  the  grain  of  that  internationally  accepted 
arrangement are regressive and illegal.
The  Maldives  also  calls  for  a  peaceful  end  to  the 
continuing  war  in  Syria.  The  humanitarian  situation 
continues  to  worsen.  The  Security  Council  has  not 
adequately addressed that conflict and its consequences. 
We  must  take  more  assertive  action  to  stop  the  tide 
of  suffering  in  Syria.  Humanitarian  intervention  is  a 
necessity. A permanent political solution is a must.
Similarly,  the  atrocities  that  are  being  committed 
against  Muslims  in  Myanmar  should  not  be  ignored. 
The  Maldives  calls  on  the  authorities  in  Myanmar  to 
bring  to  justice  the  perpetrators  who  have  committed 
genocidal  crimes  against  the  Rohingya  Muslims.  In 
particular,  the  recommendations  of  the  Independent 
International Fact-Finding Mission on Myanmar should 
be implemented without delay.
Article  1  of  the  Charter  describes  the  United 
Nations  as  the  centre  for  harmonizing  the  actions  of 
nations.  The  United  Nations  can  meaningfully  fulfil 
that  function  only  if  it  is  fit  for  the  purposes  set  out 
in  clear  terms  in  the  Charter.  The  reforms  that  the 
38/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
Secretary-General  introduced  in  recent  months  to 
modernize  the  development  system  of  the  United 
Nations have begun to take shape. Yet our attempts to 
bring broader systemic reform to the Organization, such 
as  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  have  produced 
many processes but virtually no success, despite more 
than four decades of deliberations. The United Nations 
needs  to  be  an  institution  where  every  Member  State 
should  feel  welcomed,  where  the  combined  power  of 
many ideas, many solutions and many voices can thrive 
in addressing the challenges of climate change, ocean 
degradation, poverty, exclusion and discrimination.
For  small  island  developing  States,  such  as  the 
Maldives,  the  United  Nations  will  always  remain  the 
indispensable partner in building our national resilience. 
We  see  the  United  Nations  as  the  key  in  determining 
our place and our voice in global discourse. Ensuring 
the relevance of the United Nations must mean ensuring 
that  everyone,  from  the  biggest  to  the  smallest,  plays 
their  part.  It  must  mean  offering  everyone  a  place  in 
finding shared solutions for our shared future. It must 
mean  sharing  the  responsibility  to  deliver  a  more 
peaceful, a more just, equitable and sustainable future 
for our children and their children.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
Before giving the floor to speakers in exercise of the 
right of reply, may I remind members that statements 
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10 
minutes for the first intervention and five minutes for 
the  second,  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Mr.  Golroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  A  few  days  ago,  the  Saudi  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs took the floor in this Hall to level false 
allegations against my country (see A/73/PV.13). I am 
therefore speaking in Arabic today in order to respond 
directly to his allegations and ensure that our position 
is made clear to that neighbouring country.
The  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Saudi  Arabia 
stated that his country supports the American strategy 
against  Iran.  Such  a  position  is  neither  new  nor 
astonishing.  Saudi  positions  are  well  known.  They 
oppose the peoples and the Governments of the region, 
particularly  those  of  Arab  nations.  What  is  odd  is 
that  the  Saudi  Minister  should  accuse  my  country  of 
supporting terrorism. That is very strange. Everybody 
knows  that  Saudi  Arabia  provides  more  than  ample 
support  to  terrorism.  I  do  not  wish  to  defend  the 
position  of  my  country,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran, 
as far as counter-terrorism measures are concerned. It 
is already well known, particularly among the peoples 
and the Governments of friendly States in the region.
However,  allow  me  to  simply  recall  here  the 
institutional links that exist between Saudi Arabia and 
terrorism,  based  on  Western  perspectives.  In  leaked 
diplomatic  cables  sent  by  Hillary  Clinton,  the  former 
United States Secretary of State, she said in 2009 that 
Saudi  donors  were  the  greatest  source  of  funding  for 
terrorist groups around the world. A British report was 
also  issued  by  the  Henry  Jackson  Society  on  foreign 
money  transfers  to  support  extremism,  underscoring 
the  fact  that  Saudi  Arabia  is  the  largest  financer  of 
extremism  in  Britain.  The  British  media  disclosed  a 
United  Kingdom  Government  investigation  that  was 
ordered  by  former  Prime  Minister  David  Cameron  to 
investigate allegations about Saudi Arabia’s supporting 
terrorist and extremist groups in Britain.
Many former European ambassadors in Riyadh have 
also accused Saudi Arabia of such measures. A former 
European ambassador to Saudi Arabia even described 
Saudi Arabia as the kingdom of terrorism and accused 
that country of using its oil wealth to spread terrorism 
around the globe. The most prominent party accusing 
Saudi Arabia of financing terrorism is the United States 
Congress, which, on 28 September 2016, adopted, by an 
overwhelming  majority,  the  Justice  Against  Sponsors 
of  Terrorism  Act  aimed  at  Saudi  Arabia,  because  16 
Saudi nationals were identified as having been involved 
in the 11 September 2001 attacks.
Let me stop at this point to say that everyone knows 
that the source of the terrorism aimed at innocent people 
in the Middle East, North Africa, Europe and New York 
on 11 September 2001 is the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
Everybody  knows  that  the  Saudi  Government  is  the 
main supporter of terrorism, from Al-Qaida to Da’esh. 
Everybody  knows  that  the  noble  Yemeni  nation  is 
suffering as a result of Saudi State terrorism.
The Saudi Minister for Foreign affairs is accusing 
my  country  of  destabilizing  the  region,  as  if  the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia were supporting stability. Do 
the  destruction  of  Yemen  and  the  murder  of  innocent 
Yemeni  children  lead  to  the  promotion  of  stability? 
Do  the  aerial  bombardment  of  Saada  in  Yemen  and 
the  killing  of  dozens  of  children  there,  most  of  them 
under  15  years  of  age,  support  stability?  I  stress  that 
18-30214
39/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
Saudi  Arabia  deliberately  targeted  those  children 
and civilians.
Does the blockade against Qatar support stability? 
Does  the  financing  of  terrorist  groups  in  Iraq,  Syria, 
Yemen and Libya strengthen stability? Does the creation 
of terrorist groups in Lebanon that launched a suicide 
attack  against  the  embassy  of  Iran  in  Beirut  support 
stability? Saudi Arabia claims that it is defending the 
Arab  nation.  Is  the  waging  of  proxy  wars  the  way  to 
defend the Arab nation? Does defending the Arab nation 
mean inciting Israel to attack Lebanon? Does defending 
the  Arab  nation  mean  abandoning  the  Palestinian 
people? Saudi Arabia is not defending the Arab nation; 
rather it is killing Arabs with their dollars. It has no pity 
for any Arab State and for any Arab people, even if they 
were its allies.
that 
Saudi  Arabia  claims 
the  Ansar  Allah 
movement in Yemen has targeted civilian populations 
in  Saudi  territory  by  launching  199  ballistic  missiles 
manufactured  in  Iran.  That  is  an  empty  accusation. 
First, how could the Islamic Republic of Iran transport 
missiles to Yemen through the existing tight blockade? 
Secondly,  if  those  were  ballistic  missiles,  as  Saudi 
Arabia  claims,  how  come  there  were  no  civilian 
casualties?  Has  Saudi  Arabia  seen  what  a  ballistic 
missile  is  capable  of  doing  in  terms  of  destruction? 
Given  the  lack  of  damage,  those  claims  are  nothing 
but lies.
We  say  to  our  Yemeni  brothers  of  all  parties  to 
the  conflict  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  wants 
stability in Yemen. We support the efforts of the Special 
Envoy of the Secretary-General to Yemen, Mr. Martin 
Griffiths.  We  call  upon  all  Yemenis  to  engage  in  an 
intra-Yemeni dialogue under the auspices of the United 
Nations.  Mr.  Griffiths  recently  stated  that  those  who 
say  Ansar  Allah  does  not  want  to  negotiate  are  not 
being truthful. He informed the United Nations Human 
Rights  Council  of  recent  violations  of  human  rights 
in  Yemen  as  a  result  of  crimes  committed  by  the  so-
called  Saudi-Emirati  coalition  in  Yemen.  In  addition, 
water distribution networks have been targeted, while 
prohibiting  medications  from  entering  Yemen.  The 
report speaks of documented evidence that the United 
Arab  Emirates  and  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  are 
responsible for human rights violations in Yemen.
In conclusion, I would like to note that the Saudi 
Minister  boasts  of  Saudi  wealth.  He  says  that  Saudi 
Arabia paid $13 billion to the Yemeni people. Indeed he 
can say that, but the money was paid to kill Yemenis, 
destroy  Yemen  and  increase  famine  and  cholera 
there. That money was not paid for medicines and the 
reconstruction  of  the  country.  I  would  like  to  say  to 
the  Saudi  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  that  Iran  is  an 
honest and loyal neighbour to every honest neighbour. 
We have called upon you to engage in a dialogue, and 
we  call  upon  you  once  again  to  engage  in  a  dialogue 
to  resolve  problems  for  the  well-being  of  the  Muslim 
nation and the stability and security of the peoples in 
the  region.  The  doors  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
are open for you.
In response to the claims made by the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the United Arab Emirates a few days 
ago in this Hall (see A/73/PV.14) pertaining to the three 
Iranian islands in the Persian Gulf, namely, Abu Musa, 
Greater  Tunb  and  Lesser  Tunb,  the  Islamic  Republic 
of Iran underscores that those islands are Iranian. The 
claims by the Emirates are baseless. We reject them and 
consider those claims to be interference in our affairs. 
The Islamic Republic of Iran expresses its readiness to 
hold bilateral negotiations with the United Arab Emirates 
in order to remove the existing misunderstanding.
Ms.  Simonyan  (Armenia):  The  delegation  of 
Armenia  requested  the  floor  in  exercise  of  the  right 
of  reply  to  respond  to  the  statement  made  by  the 
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  Azerbaijan  on  Friday 
(see  A/73/PV.13).  We  note  that  a  substantial  portion 
of  the  statement  makes  references  to  Armenia  with 
regard  to  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  issue,  with  lopsided 
interpretations  of 
law  and  selective 
references to the Charter of the United Nations.
international 
Azerbaijan continues to refer to the right of return 
for  refugees  to  their  homes,  which  is  consistent  with 
their practice of turning a deaf ear to the fact that any 
arrangement  for  the  return  of  refugees  to  the  places 
of  their  former  residence  requires  a  comprehensive 
approach. The provision for the right of refugees along 
with other elements, most notably the full recognition 
of the realization of the right to self-determination, is 
among the basic principles for a peaceful settlement of 
the Nagorno Karabakh conflict, which Azerbaijan has 
so far chosen to disregard.
Azerbaijan  has  been  remarkably  consistent  in 
making  selective  references  to  the  provisions  of  the 
four  Security  Council  resolutions  adopted  in  1993 
(resolutions 822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993), and 884 
(1993)).  Those  four  resolutions  call  for  the  cessation 
40/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
of  hostilities,  the  opening  of  communications  and 
the  resumption  of  peace  negotiations  with  all  parties 
concerned, including the people of Nagorno Karabakh.
However, in response to each of those resolutions, 
Azerbaijan  responded  with  an  intensification  of  its 
military  offenses.  Explicit  in  its  ambition  to  seek 
a  military  solution  to  the  conflict,  Azerbaijan  has 
been  incrementally  raising  tensions  in  the  region,  as 
demonstrated  by  a  large-scale  aggression  against  the 
people of Nagorno Karabakh in April 2016 in violation 
of  the  trilateral  ceasefire  agreement  of  1994  and  the 
trilateral  agreement  on  the  consolidation  of  the  cease 
fire  of  1995.  The  escalation  by  Azerbaijan  in  2016 
followed the logic of its long-standing policy of inciting 
hatred against Armenians at the highest level, which led 
to the extreme radicalization of society in Azerbaijan. 
including among the youth.
The Nagorno Karabakh conflict erupted as a result 
of the denial of one of the fundamental human rights, 
the right of people to self-determination. It is about the 
right of people to choose their own destiny and to decide 
the  form  of  governance  in  their  own  homeland.  The 
people of Nagorno Karabakh had to defend themselves 
from  extermination,  and  they  succeeded  in  doing  so 
without any international intervention.
Armenia has declared unequivocally its adherence 
to the peace negotiations conducted under the auspices 
of  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (OSCE)  Minsk  Group  co-Chairs  with  a  view 
to finding a lasting and comprehensive solution to the 
conflict.  We  hope  that  Azerbaijan  will  invest  efforts 
in  promoting  a  culture  of  peace,  good-neighbourly 
relations, democracy and human rights. And it is in that 
context that Armenia urges Azerbaijan to take genuine 
steps toward ending its persistent warmongering, hate 
speech and intolerance and to commit in good faith to 
the  implementation  of  the  agreements  reached  in  the 
course  of  the  negotiations  under  the  auspices  of  the 
OSCE Minsk Group co-Chairs.
Mr.  Tevi  (Vanuatu):  I  take  the  opportunity  to 
exercise the right of reply to Indonesia’s recent statement 
(see A/73/PV.11). Please allow me at the outset to express 
Vanuatu’s deep sympathy and solidarity to the people 
and the Government of Indonesia during this difficult 
time as they are suffering from the effects of the recent 
earthquake and tsunami. We are confident that the spirit 
of perseverance of the people of Indonesia affected by 
that terrible tragedy, together with the solidarity of the 
international community, will assist in overcoming the 
suffering caused by the devastating forces of nature.
Regarding  West  Papua,  Vanuatu  agrees  with 
Indonesia  that  allegations  of  flagrant,  systematic 
and  widespread  human  rights  violations  and  of  the 
neglect of civil, social, political, economic and cultural 
rights cannot be taken lightly. When Papua and civil-
society  organizations  and  international  human  rights 
organizations such as an Amnesty International report 
with  great  diligence  to  the  United  Nations  cases  of 
gross  human  rights  violations,  it  is  crucial  that  those 
allegations be examined and investigated thoroughly by 
the relevant human rights mechanisms.
That  is  the  basic  reason  why  Vanuatu  welcomed 
the news of the visit to Papua last year of the Special 
Rapporteur on the right of everyone to the enjoyment 
of  the  highest  attainable  standard  of  physical  and 
mental  health.  The  Special  Rapporteur  was  able  to 
see with his own eyes that Papua was lagging behind 
other  parts  of  Indonesia  in  many  aspects.  However, 
the  former  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights, 
Mr.  Zeid  Ra’ad  Al  Hussein,  said  in  his  last  statement 
as High Commissioner for Human Rights that he was 
concerned  that,  despite  the  positive  engagement  of 
the  authorities  in  many  respects,  the  Government  of 
Indonesia’s  invitation  for  the  High  Commissioner  to 
visit  Papua  has  yet  to  be  honoured.  Vanuatu  would 
encourage Indonesia to renew its invitation to the new 
High Commissioner for Human Rights and to organize 
a visit by her to Papua in the near future. That would be 
important in order to obtain an objective assessment of 
human rights issues in West Papua.
Members  will  agree  that  Vanuatu  is  not  alone  in 
raising  concerns  about  human  rights  at  the  United 
Nations  and  that  there  are  other  Members  raising 
similar  concerns.  Historically,  Vanuatu’s  stance  on 
human rights abuses, decolonization and the wrongs of 
apartheid has always been strong, and for that reason 
Vanuatu will continue to act on that basis.
Mrs.  Alhefeiti  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My country’s delegation wishes to exercise the 
right  of  reply  to  address  the  allegations  made  by  the 
representative of Iran in his statement.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  reaffirms  that  the 
three  islands  in  the  Arabian  Gulf,  namely,  Lesser 
Tunb,  Greater  Tunb  and  Abu  Musa,  form  an  integral 
part  of  the  territories  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates. 
The United Arab Emirates categorically rejects Iran’s 
18-30214
41/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
ongoing  occupation  of  those  three  Emirati  islands, 
which  contravenes  international  law.  Iran’s  claims 
to  those  three  islands  are  baseless.  We  continue 
to  call  on  Iran  to  resolve  that  issue  through  direct 
negotiations,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  or 
international arbitration.
Iran’s  expansionist  policies  and  its  attempts  to 
export  its  revolution  to  other  countries  are  in  gross 
violation of the principle of sovereignty. Its continuous 
interference  in  the  domestic  affairs  of  Arab  States 
has  caused  an  increase  in  tension  in  the  region  and 
constitutes a threat to the stability there. Any Iranian 
interference in the domestic affairs of Arab States is, 
therefore, unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
We  stress  that  Iran  is  a  country  that  harbours 
terrorism in the region, including Hizbullah in Lebanon 
and Syria, the Houthis in Yemen and terrorist groups 
and cells in the Kingdom of Bahrain, Iraq, the Kingdom 
of  Saudi  Arabia  and  the  State  of  Kuwait.  We  firmly 
condemn the increasing influence of Iran in the Yemeni 
conflict. Iran has been helping the Houthis by providing 
them with financial, strategic and military support, and 
by providing their fighters with training and weapons in 
Yemen, which represents a blatant violation of Security 
Council resolutions 2216 (2015) and 2231 (2015).
Iran  provides  very  advanced  weapons  to  the 
Houthis  along  with  developed  technology  that  no 
other non-governmental party has received, including 
ballistic  missiles  and  hundreds  of 
thousands  of 
landmines and improvised explosive devices, which kill 
civilians  across  Yemen.  Reports  from  United  Nations 
agencies  have  cited  information  according  to  which 
Iran provides the Houthis with weapons and equipment. 
The  unconditional  support  from  Iran  to  the  Houthis, 
including ballistic missiles and other kinds of weapons, 
remains  a  direct  threat  to  the  legitimate  Government 
of  Yemen  and  the  Yemeni  people.  That  support  also 
constitutes  a  threat  to  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia, 
to navigation in the Red Sea and to all the countries of 
the region.
In  that  regard,  we  recall  that  the  coalition  to 
support  legitimacy  in  Yemen  was  formed  in  2015  at 
the  request  of  the  legitimate  Government  in  Yemen 
to  protect  Yemen  and  its  people  from  the  continuous 
Houthi  aggression  supported  by  Iran.  That  request  is 
entirely consistent with international law. Furthermore, 
we informed the Security Council of that coalition, as 
appropriate.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  committed 
to  international  humanitarian  law.  We  emphasize 
our  humanitarian  commitment  to  support  the  people 
of  Yemen.  It  is  incumbent  upon  the  international 
community  to  put  pressure  on  the  Houthis  by  taking 
immediate  action  to  prevent  Iran  from  providing  the 
Houthis  with  arms,  funds  and  technical  support  in 
direct  violation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  2216 
(2015) and 2231 (2015). It remains our firm belief that 
the  only  solution  to  the  crisis  in  Yemen  is  through  a 
political settlement.
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  Addressing  directly 
the delegation of Armenia, I want to recommend that 
when  the  representative  of  that  country  has  nothing 
to say, he should not say anything, instead of making 
himself  a  laughingstock.  The  comments  just  made 
by  the  representative  of  Armenia,  which  are  false 
and  unprofessional  in  substance  and  inappropriate  in 
tone,  do  not  deserve  any  response.  However,  given 
the  importance  of  addressing  the  root  causes  of  the 
conflict  and  their  implications  for  regional  peace  and 
security and the conflict settlement process, we deem it 
important to focus briefly on the following key points.
First,  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  has  always 
been and will remain an integral part of Azerbaijan.
Second,  it  was  Armenia  that  resorted  to  force, 
violence and terrorist activities in an attempt to realize 
its groundless and unlawful territorial claims.
Third,  since  the  very  first  day  of  the  conflict, 
combat  operations  have  been  conducted  exclusively 
inside the territory of Azerbaijan — almost in the very 
centre of the country — affecting its civilian population 
and infrastructure.
Fourth,  it  is  Armenia  that  continues  to  occupy 
the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  and  the  surrounding 
seven  districts  of  Azerbaijan,  in  gross  violation  of 
international law and Security Council resolutions 822 
(1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993).
of  Azerbaijan 
Fifth,  Armenia  and  its  affiliates  in  the  occupied 
territories 
for 
internationally  wrongful  acts,  several  of  which 
constitute  serious  breaches  of  obligations  under  the 
peremptory norms of general international law —  jus 
cogens.
are 
responsible 
Sixth, Armenia’s policy and practices are based on 
exclusion and discrimination on ethnic grounds and are 
aimed at the legitimation of the results of the unlawful 
use of force and ethnic cleansing.
42/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
Seventh,  Armenia  distorts  and  misinterprets  the 
principle of a people’s right to self-determination and, 
notwithstanding  the  concept  of  self-determination 
under  international  law,  attempts  to  impose  the  view 
that  that  principle  may  be  applied  in  the  form  of 
unilateral  secession  for  the  Armenian  minority  group 
living in the Nagorno Karabakh region of Azerbaijan. 
In  reality,  such  a  view  has  nothing  in  common  with 
the  principle  of  self-determination  set  forth  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Final  Act  of  the 
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe of 
1975  and  other  international  documents.  Actions  that 
Armenian describes as the exercise of the right to self-
determination have been unequivocally qualified by the 
Security Council and other authoritative international 
organizations  as  the  unlawful  use  of  force  and  the 
commission of other serious crimes.
The 
inviolability  of 
the 
including 
international  community, 
the 
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  has 
consistently  reaffirmed  the  sovereignty,  territorial 
integrity  and 
internationally 
recognized  borders  of  Azerbaijan.  The  illegality  of 
the subordinate, racist minority regime established by 
Armenia  in  the  occupied  territory  of  Azerbaijan  has 
been  repeatedly  confirmed  at  the  international  level 
in the most unambiguous terms. Eighth, Armenia has 
consistently obstructed the conflict-settlement process 
and refuses, in the meantime, to start results-oriented 
negotiations,  while  it  regularly  resorts  to  various 
provocations to escalate the situation on the ground.
Finally,  the  achievement  of  peace,  security  and 
stability will be possible, first and foremost, only if the 
consequences  of  Armenia’s  occupation  are  removed, 
thereby ensuring that its armed forces are immediately, 
unconditionally  and  completely  withdrawn  from  the 
territories  of  Azerbaijan;  that  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of my country are restored; and that 
the right of internally displaced Azerbaijanis to return 
to their homes is guaranteed and implemented.
That  is  what  international  law  and  the  Security 
Council demand and that can, in no way, be replaced 
by half-measures made under some pretext, introduced 
as  a  compromise  or  used  as  a  bargaining  chip  in  the 
conflict-settlement process.
Mr. Taborat (Indonesia): The Indonesian delegation 
is compelled to take the floor to exercise its right of reply 
to the statement that was just made by the delegation of 
Vanuatu. Although that statement was disguised with a 
flowery human rights concern, Vanuatu’s sole intention 
and  action  is  to  challenge  directly  the  internationally 
agreed principles of friendly relations between States, 
sovereignty and territorial integrity. In many instances, 
Vanuatu  has  shown  that  it  is  supporting  a  separatist 
movement. I wonder whether that is the way a country 
that  abides  by  international  law  should  behave.  Such 
inexcusable support for separatist individuals is clearly 
shown through Vanuatu’s inclusion in its delegation to 
the United Nations of a number of persons with serious 
criminal records and separatist agendas.
When  a  faraway  country  that  is  clueless  as  to 
what  is  happening  in  the  provinces  of  a  sovereign 
and  independent  country  tries  to  give  a  false  dream 
and  support  to  a  group  of  individuals  with  separatist 
intentions,  it  goes  against  all  honour  and  common 
decency.  And  it  is  ill-intentioned,  which  is  contrary 
to  the  principles  of  friendly  relations  among  States. 
Indonesia  categorically  rejects  any  efforts  to  violate 
the  principles  of  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity, 
which all Members of the United Nations hold dear. The 
people of Papua have once and for all reaffirmed that 
Papua has been an irrevocable part of Indonesia since 
1945. It was confirmed by the United Nations and the 
international community almost 50 years ago. It is an 
indisputable fact that the status of the provinces of Papua 
and West Papua is final, irreversible and permanent. If 
the delegation of Vanuatu wishes to keep bringing up 
the issue, I suggest that it study international law first.
The  repeated  accusations  of  human  rights  abuses 
sound like a broken record. We have a saying in our part 
of the world that people should look in the mirror before 
saying  bad  things  to  others.  If  Vanuatu  is  concerned 
about  human  rights,  why  do  they  not  start  at  home? 
And  if  their  concern  means  supporting  separatism, 
then they have crossed a red line and they are violating 
the Charter of the United Nations. In closing, respect 
for sovereignty and territorial integrity is the cardinal 
rule  in  relations  among  nations  and  in  the  United 
Nations. Indonesia has honour and pride and does not 
like  to  interfere  in  the  domestic  problems  of  others, 
unlike Vanuatu.
Ms.  Danish  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
I  associate  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
delegation of the United Arab Emirates in its exercise 
of the right to reply. I would like to add that my country 
is  accustomed  to  hearing  such  false  allegations  and 
accusations from a regime that puts the blame on other 
18-30214
43/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
States  to  cover  up  its  own  failures  in  fulfilling  the 
ambitions and aspirations of its people.
Iran  continues  to  wreak  havoc  and  destruction, 
while  sponsoring  sectarianism  and  extremism.  The 
Houthi-Iranian  militias  supported  by  Iran  continue  to 
launch  Iranian-made  and  Iranian-provided  ballistic 
missiles  on  Saudi  towns.  That  is  an  undeniable  fact. 
There  have  been  199  of  those  missiles  launched 
in  addition  to  Iran’s  destabilizing  actions,  which 
constitute a threat to the security, safety and navigation 
in the Bab Al-Mandab strait and the Red Sea region. I 
reaffirm that my country remains resolutely committed 
to  achieving  a  peaceful  settlement  to  the  conflict  in 
Yemen, based on the three terms of reference, namely, 
the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  initiative,  the  outcome 
of Yemen’s National Dialogue Conference and Security 
Council resolution 2216 (2015).
Iran’s  violations  have  put  it  under  international 
sanctions.  My  country  calls  on  the  Iranian  regime  to 
adopt a new approach and to act as a State responsible 
for  the  welfare  and  stability  of  its  people,  instead  of 
wasting the people’s resources on supporting terrorist 
groups, sectarianism and extremism. Iran should act in 
accordance with the principle of good-neighbourliness
Mr.  Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I apologize for taking the floor during the final 
minutes of the meeting, but I must reply to what was 
said  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Canada  in  order 
to  refute  his  false  allegations.  We  stress  that  those 
allegations  are  baseless  and  that  they  were  made  in 
the  framework  of  Canada’s  engagement  with  terrorist 
groups  in  Syria,  in  particular  the  White  Helmets 
organization,  which  is  affiliated  with  the  terrorist 
Al-Nusra Front, which is listed on the United Nations 
lists of terrorist entities. Promoting the White Helmets 
organization means promoting terrorism and Al-Qaida, 
which has perpetrated many terrorist acts in the United 
States, Europe and other regions around the world.
Mr.  Golroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  My 
delegation is compelled to take the floor for the second 
time in exercise of the right of reply to the statements 
just  made  by  the  representatives  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates and Saudi Arabia.
Despite  what  some  people  seem  to  believe,  the 
repetition  of  groundless  accusations  and  fabrications 
does not lend them credibility. Reiterating those kinds 
of absurd and extravagant claims is reminiscent of Paul 
Joseph Goebbels, the Reich Minister of Propaganda of 
Nazi Germany. He also had a simplistic approach to the 
inversion of a lie into a truth. He said that a lie told once 
remains a lie, but a lie told a thousand times becomes 
the truth. Goebbels’ approach worked at the time.
However, Emirati and Saudi officials are negligent 
of the fact that repeating falsehoods year after year does 
not and cannot conceal or alter the truth in our age of 
digital communication. My delegation, in its first right 
of reply, carefully considered its observations in order 
to  preserve  good  neighbourly  relations;  therefore,  we 
touched only the tip of the iceberg. Moreover, the time 
limit  for  the  right  of  reply  does  not  make  it  possible 
for me to present the factual and background details of 
what has been pointed out by my delegation.
There is a lot to be said about leaked and unclassified 
information  concerning  the  Bush  Administration’s 
omission  of  28  pages  of the  9/11  Commission  Report, 
illustrating the fact that the United States Government 
was  covering  up  evidence  that  Saudi  officials  were 
complicit  in  the  attacks,  as  well  as  tons  of  credible 
information  about  Saudi  Arabia  as  a  main  source  of 
funds and support for terrorist movements and the fact 
that  that  country  remains  the  most  prolific  sponsor 
of  international  extremism  and  terrorism,  supporting 
groups such as the Taliban in Afghanistan, Al-Qaida, 
Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Al-Nusra Front.
There is also a lot to be said about the complicity 
of the United Arab Emirates regime in the aggression 
against the Yemeni people and the slaughter of innocent 
people,  which  has  resulted  in  a  human  catastrophe  in 
today’s  world.  The  frequent  and  indiscriminate  air 
strikes on  cities by  Saudi  and  United  Arab  Emirates
aircraft is an appalling crime, producing no result other 
than the killing and injuring of thousands of innocent 
women and children and the displacement of millions 
of civilians.
In  a  futile  effort  to  divert  regional  and  global 
attention from the criminal Saudi-led aggression against 
the  impoverished  and  defenceless  nation  of  Yemen, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  delegation has yet  again 
repeated its baseless claims to the three Iranian islands 
that are outside of its territorial waters and historically 
of  Iranian  identity.  The  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser  Tunb 
and Abu Musa islands belong to Iran, and we strongly 
condemn such outdated and ineffective claims, which 
are  an  instance  of  interference  in  Iran’s  internal 
affairs. It is a pity that some Persian Gulf States ignore 
historical and geographical realities and disregard the 
44/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
authority of their neighbours. Regrettably, they do not 
follow rational policies based on good neighbourliness.
Despite those  claims  and  allegations,  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran has always taken steps to ensure the 
stability and security of countries in the region and to 
fight  terrorism  and  terrorist  groups,  and  we  believe 
that  the  only  way  to  restore  security  and  tranquillity 
in West Asia is to hold a dialogue among the countries 
of  the  region.  Tehran’s  principal  policy  has  always 
been  based  on  maintaining  greater  convergence  and 
mutual  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  other  countries, 
especially  with  neighbours  and  in  the  observance  of 
good-neighbourliness.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I  take  it 
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 8?
It was so decided.
Statement by the President
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have reached 
the  end  of  the  general  debate.  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
expressing  my  condolences  to  and  solidarity  with  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Indonesia,  who  have 
been affected by terrible natural disasters. I am deeply 
moved by the plight of the victims and the magnitude 
of the destruction that has been suffered by that beloved 
country. I also express my solidarity with Barbados and 
Japan  for  the  large-scale  disasters  that  have  similarly 
affected their peoples in recent days.
The general debate that we conclude today has been 
a  further  indication  of  the  relevance  of  the  General 
Assembly and the United Nations. It has been a week of 
meetings and dialogue — the week in which the name 
of  this  Organization  is  most  frequently  mentioned in 
the media and social networks around the world. This 
is the week in which the agenda of the United Nations 
occupies  prime  position  in  presidential  offices.  This 
week will undoubtedly set the tone for our agenda and 
work throughout the year.
This has also been the week in which delegations and 
their teams endure the greatest pressure and, as was the 
case for me as President, a week of countless meetings 
and events that enabled us to advance the multilateral 
agenda and strengthen regional and bilateral relations. 
However, I think we can all say that we are concluding 
the  general  debate  having  achieved  success  and  with 
the satisfaction of having fulfilled our duty. But this is 
only the beginning of the seventy-third session, and I 
truly  hope  that  this  week’s  enthusiasm  and  efficiency 
will be maintained throughout the year.
I would like to summarize the results of the general 
debate in the following seven points, and I will be brief. 
The first result is undoubtedly the global reflection that 
we have all witnessed on the role of the Organization and 
the importance of multilateralism as the only response 
to  the  problems  facing  humankind.  There  is  almost 
unanimous  agreement  among  the  representatives  of 
the  more  than  7.6  billion  inhabitants  of  the  planet  on 
the  irreplaceable  role  of  the  Organization.  We  heard 
calls over and over again to strengthen multilateralism, 
which  filled  us  with  satisfaction, while  at  the  same 
time presenting us with a great challenge to make the 
Organization more relevant every day for our peoples. 
To  recall  the  words  of  the  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines,
“after  seven  decades,  the  United  Nations  remains 
the only institution with the capacity and authority 
to  enable  global  cooperation  for  our  collective 
ennoblement” (A/73/PV.10, p.56).
The  second  strategic  result  is  that  we  have  made 
the  Organization  a  home  for  all  of  the  nations  of  the 
world throughout the week. That required a great effort 
in terms of coordination and logistics on the part of the 
Secretariat and its staff, whom I warmly congratulate, 
but  above  all  the  week  has  provided  a  space  for  the 
deepening  of  bilateral  ties  and  the  strengthening  of 
political and regional groups. The Assembly has been 
the scene of hundreds of meetings of our Heads of State 
and  Government  and  Ministers  of  various  offices,  all 
contributing at this general debate to the strengthening 
of relations between our nations.
Third,  we  have  shared  visions  and  experiences 
on  issues  of  common  interest  in  more  than  400 
side  events  that  took  place  during  the  week.  For  any 
ordinary  person,  it  might  be  difficult  to  conceive  the 
sheer  number  of  events  being  held  simultaneously. 
However, in one way or another, we were all involved 
in  exchanging  experiences,  sharing  progress  and 
establishing commitments on issues of global interest.
Fourth, during the debate we reached agreement on 
two political declarations that reflect the commitment of 
our States at the highest level to eradicating tuberculosis 
and combating non-communicable diseases.
18-30214
45/47
A/73/PV.16 
1/10/2018
Fifth,  seven  countries  signed  and  four  countries 
ratified  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons this week, strengthening our commitment to 
a world free from nuclear threat, to which we all aspire. 
With those latest signatories, 69 countries have signed 
and 19 have ratified that important instrument.
Sixth,  our  Heads  of  State  and  Government  not 
only  carried  out  an  evaluation  of  the  most  sensitive 
issues  of  the  international  situation,  but  also  shared 
the  most  significant  advances  in  their  strategies  for 
sustainable development, peacebuilding and respect for 
human rights. In sum, this general debate has been the 
forum  for  presenting  to  the  world  the  most  important 
national and regional achievements and challenges.
Seventh, but no less important, this week was, as 
is  the  case  every  year,  an  encounter  not  just  among 
Government 
leaders,  but  also  among  hundreds 
of  activists,  young  people  and  leaders  of  social 
organizations  who  move  the  United  Nations  agenda 
forward  and  play  a  key  role  in  the  implementation  of 
the commitments we make in the General Assembly.
If we added together all the speeches delivered in 
this Hall, we would have a global X-ray of the status of 
the world today, of the most important achievements of 
and challenges facing our nations, and of the role that 
this Organization and multilateralism play in the world. 
For  that  reason,  we  thank  all  Governments,  without 
exception, for their commitment, to the Organization, 
which  is  reflected  in  their  presence  at  this  general 
debate. I thank the 121 Heads of State and Government, 
the nine Vice-Presidents and Deputy Prime Ministers, 
and the Ministers and Permanent Representatives who 
participated in this year’s discussions.
The  messages  we  heard  from  all  of  them  were 
as  diverse  as  the  peoples  of  the  world,  but,  at  the 
same  time,  they  abounded  in  similarities  and  shared 
concerns. I am pleased that delegations took the topic 
of this session and the seven working priorities that I 
proposed as the basis for their statements. As the Prime 
Minister of Nepal mentioned, in referring to the theme 
of this session,
“The  endeavour  to  make  the  United  Nations 
relevant  to  all  people  is  well  captured  in  the 
philosophy of leaving no one behind” (A/73/PV.11, 
p.21).
Allow me to highlight several of the themes that were 
repeatedly addressed in this general debate.
First of all, I am deeply heartened by the fact that 
many  countries  have  defended  multilateralism  and  the 
need for joint actions to address the global challenges. 
I  fully  agree  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Belgium: “Multilateralism is not a hollow and 
meaningless concept. On the contrary, it is a conviction, 
because dialogue is tireless”. (A/73/PV.10, p.33)
From international conflicts to terrorism and nuclear 
proliferation, from climate change and natural disasters 
to growing inequality and poverty, from migration and 
refugees  to  health  and  education,  from  the  impact  of 
new technologies to the world of work, we understand 
that we are faced with common challenges that require 
common answers. The President of Paraguay captured 
that idea very accurately by stating that,
“In  the  face  of  an  international  scenario 
characterized by political uncertainty and economic 
volatility,  we  need  collective  and  comprehensive 
strategies  with  a  sense  of  shared  responsibility.” 
(A/73/PV.7, p.13)
Sustainable development and the threat of climate 
change were the issues most frequently mentioned by 
leaders during the debate. With good reason, countries 
are concerned about the storms, hurricanes and droughts 
that have been hitting them with increasing force. That 
terrible  and  devastating  reality  struck  the  regions 
of  Asia-Pacific,  the  Caribbean  and  North  America. 
The  people  in  those  regions  are  concerned  about  the 
loss  of  crops  and  desertification;  they  are  concerned 
about  running  out  of  water  in  their  main  cities;  they 
are concerned about the temperatures that make entire 
regions simply uninhabitable.
This Hall heard several voices crying out for swift 
and effective action for the financing and implementation 
of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change.  The 
President of France said: “We are told that it is already 
too late... So let us speed up”. (A/73/PV.6, p.31)
Many countries also took advantage of this general 
debate to share their progress in the implementation of the 
Paris Agreement and underscored successful examples 
of renewable energy and technology reconversion.
The great majority of leaders referred to the actions 
being taken by their countries for the implementation the 
Sustainable Development Goals, their policies to assist 
the most vulnerable and measures to eradicate poverty 
and advance inclusive and sustained economic growth.
46/47 
18-30214
1/10/2018 
A/73/PV.16
World leaders also referred to this year’s celebration 
of 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, thereby emphasizing the 
full validity of human rights and the global clamour to 
ensure their full implementation.
between  Eritrea,  Ethiopia  and  Djibouti,  and 
the 
promising  efforts  towards  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula. The President of Kenya, for example, 
when referring to the current problems that the world 
faces, said that,
Many  rightly  called  for  the  achievement  of  full 
gender  equality,  once  and  for  all,  as  a  necessary 
condition for sustainable development and peace. I was 
also encouraged that a clear majority of Member States 
expressed their support for the global compact for safe, 
orderly and regular migration. The large displacements 
of  people  —  both  migrants  and  refugees  —  pose 
significant  challenges  and  require  clear  policies  and 
coordinated international action.
Let us recall that this week, before beginning the 
general  debate,  we  gathered  together  to  honour  the 
great Nelson Mandela, his legacy and his memory, to 
remember,  through  the  declaration  that  we  adopted 
(resolution 73/1), that one of our most important purposes 
must be to work for peacebuilding and peacekeeping.
The emphasis placed by world leaders on the need 
to invest more in conflict prevention and in mediation 
is  a  reflection  of  a  paradigm  shift  that  we  need  to 
make  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable  peace.  As  the 
President  of  Liberia  reminded  us,  on  the  occasion  of 
the successful completion of the peacekeeping mission 
in that country, we “must never take peace for granted 
or forget the long shadow that years of conflict still cast 
over people’s lives” (A/73/PV.8, p.37).
This  general  debate  was  also  marked  by  positive 
developments,  such  as  the  peace  agreements  signed 
“Today’s  problems,  risks  and 
threats  are 
complex and call for more — not less — cooperation, 
more — not less — observance of the rule of law, 
more — not less — negotiation. We need a rules-
based multilateral system.”(A/73/PV.9, p.16)
I  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Deputy 
Secretary-General  for  their  unwavering  commitment 
and their tireless work over these days. Their leadership 
is  central  to  making  the  Organization  increasingly 
relevant  to  our  peoples.  I  would  like  to  thank 
representatives for their work and effort in this general 
debate  and  their  support  for  my  presidency.  I  would 
also like to thank the officials of the Secretariat and the 
technical  staff,  who  have  enabled  us  to  conclude  this 
general debate successfully. I thank in particular all the 
Vice-Presidents of the General Assembly at its seventy-
third session, who shared with me the task of steering 
the work of the General Assembly.
We are faced with the challenge of transforming all 
of the ideas, the commitments made and the challenges 
raised  this  week  into  concrete  action,  characterized 
by  greater  effectiveness  and  by  a  greater  impact  on 
people’s lives, especially on the lives of those who need 
this Organization the most. We must make a difference, 
and the time to do so is now.
The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.
18-30214
47/47
