United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
51st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 12 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.51
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ten-Pow 
(Guyana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 15
Culture of peace
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/391)
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.43, A/73/L.48, 
A/73/L.52 and A/73/L.55)
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
introduce  draft 
to 
representative  of  Bangladesh 
resolution A/73/L.43.
Mr.  Islam  (Bangladesh):  I  have  the  honour  to 
introduce draft resolution A/73/L.43, entitled “Follow-
up  to  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  on  a 
Culture of Peace”.
A culture of peace is an aspiration of all humankind. 
Promoting  and  inculcating  a  mindset  of  a  culture 
of  peace  is  at  the  core  of  the  creative  management 
of  differences  and  divisions.  A  culture  of  peace  can 
become a credible pathway to sustaining peace.
Over 
the  years,  Bangladesh  has 
remained 
committed  to  the  values  and  principles  enshrined  in 
the Charter of the United Nations and worked alongside 
the  international  community  to  promote  and  protect 
peace.  The  Government  of  Prime  Minister  Sheikh 
Hasina remains committed to the issue and underscores 
the  importance  of  a  whole-of-society  approach  in 
our  national  context  to  promoting  a  culture  of  peace. 
Beginning  in  1999,  Bangladesh  has  facilitated  this 
seminal  resolution  for  19  years  in  a  row.  Once  again, 
we thank delegations for their active participation in the 
informal consultations on the draft resolution this year.
We take note of the growing interest in addressing 
a  range  of  pertinent  issues  through  resolutions  under 
this  agenda  item.  The  recurrent  reference  to  the 
original resolution in the subsequent resolutions further 
consolidates the commitment of Member States to the 
Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of 
Peace. This year, the draft resolution has the following 
salient additions.
First,  the  draft  resolution  acknowledges  the  high-
level  event  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
held  on  5  September  on  the  theme  “The  culture  of 
peace:  a  credible  pathway  to  sustaining  peace”.  The 
event  provided  an  opportunity  for  Member  States 
to  deliberate  on  the  interplay  and  complementarity 
between  those  two  seminal  notions  at  the  United 
Nations. The President’s summary of the event has been 
duly  noted,  and  we  believe  it  can  be  useful  reference 
material  for  our  collective  work  towards  a  surge  in 
peace diplomacy.
Secondly,  in  the  spirit  of  the  President’s  high-
level event, the draft resolution recognizes that efforts 
towards  peacebuilding  and  sustaining  peace  should  
take into account the promotion of a culture of peace, 
and  vice  versa.  It  further  acknowledges  the  potential 
contribution  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture to promoting a culture of peace, pursuant 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-43387 (E)
*1843387*

A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
to resolution 72/276, entitled “Follow-up to the report 
of 
the  Secretary-General  on  peacebuilding  and 
sustaining peace”. We believe there is scope for further 
exploring and streamlining that issue through informed 
consultations in all relevant forums.
Thirdly, in further recognition of the contribution 
of  a  culture  of  peace  towards  a  comprehensive  and 
balanced  approach  to  combating  terrorism,  the  draft 
resolution  contains  a  reference  to  resolution  70/254 
of  12  February  2016,  on  the  Secretary-General’s  Plan 
of  Action  to  Prevent  Violent  Extremism.  It  is  worth 
recalling that resolution 72/284 on the United Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Review 
the 
enduring relevance of the Declaration and Programme 
of Action on a Culture of Peace.
reaffirms 
Fourthly, the draft resolution encourages Member 
States, United Nations entities, regional and subregional 
organizations and relevant actors to consider instituting 
mechanisms to involve young people in the promotion 
of  a  culture  of  peace,  tolerance  and  intercultural 
and 
issues. 
That  provides  an  opportunity  to  further  explore  the 
promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace  in  the  context  of  the 
ongoing  discussion  on  youth,  peace  and  security 
pursuant to Security Council resolution 2250 (2015).
interreligious  dialogue,  among  other 
recognizing 
the 
Fifthly,  while 
important 
contribution of the relevant United Nations entities in 
promoting a culture of peace, the draft resolution makes 
particular  reference  to  the  recent  work  of  the  United 
Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  its  Group  of 
Friends. This reflects the continued support of Member 
States  for  the  Alliance’s  contribution  to  promoting 
a  culture  of  peace  through  the  entire  spectrum  of 
its activities.
On  13  September  2019,  we  will  celebrate  the 
twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace.  To 
that end, the draft resolution requests the President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session  to 
give  special  attention  to  its  appropriate  and  befitting 
observance  by  holding  the  High-level  Forum  on  that 
date next year, which will be an opportunity to renew 
our  shared  commitment  to  further  strengthening  the 
global  movement  for  the  culture  of  peace.  We  look 
forward to working with the Office of the President of 
the General Assembly to make the event a success.
We  sincerely  thank  those  delegations  that  have 
already  sponsored  the  draft  resolution  and  encourage 
others  to  follow  suit  prior  to  its  upcoming  adoption 
by consensus.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
to introduce draft resolution A/73/L.48.
Mr. Moncada (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 120 Member States 
that make up the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries 
(NAM), the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has the 
honour to introduce draft resolution A/73/L.48, entitled 
“International  Day  of  Multilateralism  and  Diplomacy 
for Peace”.
Many  delegations  have  brought  up  the  need  to 
defend  multilateralism  at  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly — during the general debate, in the various 
committees, at the high-level dialogue in October on the 
theme  of  “Renewing  commitment  to  multilateralism: 
high-level  dialogue  between  the  Presidents  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and the Security Council”, and in the November Security 
Council  debate  on  strengthening  multilateralism  and 
the role of the United Nations (see S/PV.8395).
For its part, NAM has always insisted on the need 
to  promote,  defend  and  strengthen  multilateralism, 
especially  given  the  current  international  situation. 
We also heed the Secretary-General’s calls to make the 
United Nations an instrument for increased diplomacy 
for  peace,  which  would  help  our  efforts  to  make  our 
Organization relevant to all. That is why in September 
ministers discussed the need to defend the Charter of 
the United Nations and the purposes and principles of 
NAM, and unanimously adopted a political declaration 
to initiate consultations with a view to establishing this 
important international day.
The  Movement  thanks  all  delegations  that  have 
constructively and actively participated in the process 
of  negotiating  the  draft  resolution  that  is  before  the 
Assembly  today.  The  consensus  text  is  the  result  of 
inclusive and transparent informal consultations among 
the States Members of the United Nations, following a 
process of mutual engagement that took into account the 
positions, concerns and aspirations of all delegations.
We thank all Member States that have decided to 
sponsor  this  important  and  timely  draft  resolution. 
We  also  recognize  the  Group  of  African  States,  the 
Group of Arab States, the Group of Asian and Pacific 
States,  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations, 
2/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
the  Caribbean  Community, 
the  Group  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Cooperation  and  other  friendly  delegations 
that  expressed  their  support  for  this  initiative  from 
its inception.
As a reaffirmation of its principles and commitment 
to strengthening its role as an anti-war and peace-loving 
entity, the Movement has decided to submit this draft 
resolution under agenda item 15, “Culture of peace”, in 
the belief that it will contribute to our joint efforts for 
peace, security, stability, sustainable development and 
the promotion of human rights.
We, 
the  States  members  of  NAM,  are  also 
convinced  that  an  approach  based  on  multilateralism 
and  diplomacy  reinforces  the  three  pillars  of  the 
United  Nations  and  that  the  proposed  international 
day  constitutes  a  means  to  promote  the  values  of  our 
Organization,  to  strengthen  the  faith  of  our  peoples 
in the principles of our founding Charter, to reaffirm 
the  validity  of  international  law  and  to  advance  our 
common goal of achieving lasting peace.
We  affirm  our  commitment,  once 
the  draft 
resolution is adopted, to promoting every 24 April — a 
historic day for our Movement — as the International 
Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace through 
educational  activities  and  raising  public  awareness. 
We support the Office of the President of the General 
Assembly in its preparations for the high-level meeting 
to be held on 24 April 2019, with the participation of 
the  Secretary-General,  to  inaugurate  the  proposed 
international  day.  We  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
respectfully  urge  all  Member  States  to  participate  in 
this event at the highest possible level.
In conclusion, I would like to convey the wish of 
the 120 member States of the Non-Aligned Movement 
and all the sponsors of draft resolution A/73/L.48 that 
it  be  adopted  by  consensus,  taking  into  account  the 
importance  that  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  attach  to  multilateralism  and  diplomacy  for 
peace. In that way we can share our message of unity 
and cohesion with the world.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Uzbekistan  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/73/L.52.
Mr.  Ibragimov  (Uzbekistan):  Today  I  have  the 
honour  to  present  draft  resolution  A/73/L.52,  entitled 
“Enlightenment and religious tolerance.”
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  for  their  active  and 
their  valuable 
constructive  engagement,  and  for 
input  during 
this 
draft resolution.
informal  consultations  on 
the 
Last  year,  during  the  general  debate  of  the 
Assembly’s  seventy-second  session, 
the  President 
of  Uzbekistan,  Shavkat  Mirziyoyev,  proposed  the 
adoption of a draft resolution on education and religious 
tolerance (see A/72/PV.5), given the current challenges 
in  ensuring  tolerance  among  followers  of  different 
faiths in various parts of the globe.
His initiative was based on our country’s centuries-
old  tradition  and  positive  experience  of  ensuring  the 
peaceful  coexistence  of  representatives  of  various 
religions. In proposing that draft resolution, Uzbekistan 
sought  to  do  its  part  for  advancing  interconfessional 
tolerance  and  harmony.  The  draft  resolution  is  fully 
in  line  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration 
on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of 
Discrimination  Based  on  Religion  or  Belief  and  the 
relevant provisions of Assembly resolutions, including 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  As 
President Mirziyoyev has outlined, the main goal of the 
draft resolution is
“to  promote  universal  access  to  education  and 
eradicate  illiteracy  and  ignorance.  It  would  be 
designed to promote tolerance and mutual respect, 
ensure  religious  freedom,  protect  the  rights  of 
believers and prevent discrimination against them” 
(A/72/PV.5, p. 16).
From Uzbekistan’s perspective, the draft resolution 
is  conducive  to  encouraging  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  relevant  agencies  to  continue 
expanding  activities  in  the  field  of  public  education, 
making  efforts  to  improve  curricula  and  focusing  on 
promoting  religious  tolerance.  The  importance  of 
adopting  the  draft  resolution  is  also  underpinned  by 
the need to promote friendly relations and cooperation 
among States and to confront radicalism and extremism, 
issues  of  special  relevance  in  today’s  world.  In 
particular, the dynamic processes of globalization and 
the  current  profound  transformation  of  the  system  of 
international relations challenge the global community 
in new ways.
Given 
that  complex  situation,  strengthening 
mutual  respect  for  cultural  diversity  and  advancing 
18-43387
3/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
tolerance among people and representatives of different 
confessions are of vital importance and have an enormous 
effect on Member States. The draft resolution therefore 
seeks  to  protect  freedom  of  thought,  conscience  and 
religion  by  teaching  mutual  understanding,  tolerance, 
non-discrimination  and  respect  in  all  matters  relating 
to freedom of religion by promoting, in society at large, 
a  broader  understanding  of  the  diversity  of  religions 
and beliefs and of the history, traditions, languages and 
cultures of the various religious groups.
It  should  be  noted  that  the  draft  resolution 
specifically calls for promoting education while taking 
into  account  two  important  circumstances.  First,  the 
lack  of  access  to  quality  education  in  today’s  world 
often  leads  to  the  radicalization  of  certain  segments 
of  society,  especially  among  young  people.  Only  by 
fostering  education  and  encouraging  the  desire  for 
knowledge and self-improvement among young people 
can we ensure prosperity and tolerance in our society. 
In  that  regard,  the  draft  resolution  underlines  the 
key  role  of  UNESCO  in  contributing  to  world  peace 
by  promoting  collaboration  among  nations  through 
education, science and culture.
Secondly, 
in 
the 
contemporary  world, 
a 
large-scale public awareness campaign for rejecting all 
manifestations of religious extremism acquires special 
significance. The draft resolution therefore highlights 
the  valuable  role  of  the  United  Nations  Alliance  of 
Civilizations in contributing to a more peaceful, socially 
inclusive  world  by  promoting  greater  understanding 
and  respect  among  civilizations,  cultures,  religions 
and beliefs.
In  conclusion,  given  the  importance  of  ensuring 
interreligious tolerance and education for all, it is my 
country’s  sincere  hope  that  the  draft  resolution  will 
enjoy the unanimous support of all States Members of 
the United Nations, which I also encourage to become 
its  sponsors.  Uzbekistan,  for  its  part,  stands  ready 
to  cooperate  closely  with  all  Member  States  in  the 
practical implementation of the draft resolution, which 
will contribute to ensuring interreligious harmony and 
advancing education, as well as reaching the targets of 
the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Pakistan to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.55.
Mr. Munir (Pakistan): I have the honour to present 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.55,  entitled  “Promotion  of 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and cooperation for peace”.
Since 2004, Pakistan, together with the Philippines, 
has  been  a  proud  facilitator  of  this  annual  resolution. 
Adopted  by  consensus  by  the  General  Assembly,  it 
has evolved over the years into a significant document 
for  promoting  genuine  and  constructive  dialogue 
across  the  cultural  and  religious  divide.  Introduced 
under  the  item  “Culture  of  peace”,  in  many  ways  it 
symbolizes the timeless aspirations behind the creation 
of  the  United  Nations  itself.  While  all  of  us,  through 
our  interactions  and  exchanges  in  the  Organization, 
work  as  ambassadors  of  cross-cultural  and  religious 
dialogue, such resolutions are crucial reminders of the 
significance of endeavours that bring the peoples of the 
world together.
The  world  is  at  a  crossroads.  Questions  that 
were  considered  settled  decades  ago  have  started 
resurfacing.  The  very  need  for  collaborating  and 
cooperating  with  one  another  as  equal  partners  in 
this interconnected and interdependent world is being 
challenged. Multilateralism is facing an unprecedented 
assault from a new kind of populist nationalism based 
on a myopic world view. Xenophobia and Islamophobia 
are on the rise and diversity is increasingly considered 
a  threat.  Fear  is  being  deployed  openly  as  a  tactic  to 
sway  public  opinion.  Suspicion  and  ignorance  among 
various civilizations and religions are being exploited 
by  demagogues,  extremists  and  terrorists  to  further 
their interests and fuel discord and hatred.
It  is  therefore  all  the  more  important  to  reinforce 
our  collective  commitment  to  the  ideals  of  peaceful 
coexistence  and  to  strengthen  it  by  encouraging 
peacemakers  and  bridge-builders  in  their  work.  We 
must  also  support  efforts  that  promote  healthy  and 
productive  dialogue  and  understanding  among  all 
religions  and  civilizations  with  a  view  to  finding 
common ground and convergence of opinion. As they 
are  based  on  eternal  values  that  benefit  humankind, 
religions and cultures have more in common than what 
divides  them.  We  must  build  on  those  shared  values. 
Our diversity remains our biggest asset. It enables us to 
appreciate that there is an intrinsic value and advantage 
in interacting with those who appear different or follow 
other  religions  or  cultural  traditions.  But  for  that  to 
happen, we all have to come together and join hands to 
eliminate prejudices, stereotypes and biases and engage 
in constructive dialogue. We also have to rethink our 
4/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
perspectives in order to pursue our goals in a structured 
and all-inclusive manner.
This draft resolution does exactly that. It promotes 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue and encourages 
those working for peace, harmony, moderation, better 
understanding among people and a global cultural for 
peace. In that context, we also recognize the important 
work  of  UNESCO  and  the  invaluable  contribution  of 
the  United  Nations  Alliance  for  Civilization  —  they 
both  do  a  remarkable  job  in  promoting  interreligious 
and intercultural dialogue at the national, regional and 
international levels.
On  behalf  of  the  delegations  of  Pakistan  and  the 
Philippines, I would like to thank all Member States for 
taking an active part in the negotiations this year and 
enriching  the  text  further  with  their  invaluable  input. 
We  also  appreciate  those  who  have  been  able  to  join 
us as sponsors and hope that more will be able to do so 
now. By adopting this draft resolution, we hope that the 
General Assembly will send a strong message to those 
who attempt to take advantage of our differences.
Ms.  Md  Jaini  (Brunei  Darussalam):  I  have  the 
honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  10 
States members of the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations (ASEAN).
At the outset, we would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  insightful  report  (A/73/391)  and  for 
UNESCO’s valuable input. As the report aptly captures, 
we have a pressing need not only for peace but also for 
the collective commitment and action required to meet 
our  shared  global  responsibility,  particularly  against 
the current global backdrop.
We also take this opportunity to thank Bangladesh, 
Pakistan  and  the  Philippines  for  their  efforts  in 
facilitating  the  draft  resolutions  proposed  under  this 
item.  In  addition,  we  congratulate  the  representatives 
of Venezuela, who spoke on behalf of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned Countries, and Uzbekistan on presenting 
their  respective  initiatives.  ASEAN  is  pleased  to 
participate  once  again  in  this  year’s  debate  and  share 
with  the  international  community  what  it  is  doing  to 
advance this noble endeavour.
Home to more than 600 million people, South-East 
Asia is blessed with a multitude of ethnicities, religions, 
languages and cultures. Indeed, promoting a culture of 
peace  has  been  an  intrinsic  value  of  our  Association 
since its establishment more than 50 years ago. ASEAN 
continues  to  strongly  uphold  that  notion  through  the 
implementation  of  the  its  Community  Vision  2025, 
which  encompasses  our  shared  aspiration  for  a  rules-
based,  inclusive,  people-oriented,  people-centred  and 
resilient ASEAN community.
ASEAN  is  also  committed  to  maintaining  and 
promoting  enduring  peace,  security  and  stability  in 
the  region,  as  well  as  to  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes without resorting to the threat or use of force, 
in accordance with the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations, the ASEAN Charter, the 
Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia and 
universally recognized principles of international law.
In line with the shifting global focus on prevention, 
in 2017 ASEAN adopted the Declaration on a Culture of 
Prevention for a Peaceful, Inclusive, Resilient, Healthy 
and Harmonious Society. The Declaration represents a 
paradigm  shift  in  our  mindset  that  will  better  enable 
us  to  comprehensively  respond  to  challenges  that 
hamper  sustainable  human  and  social  development 
in  the  region.  Among  other  things,  it  recognizes  the 
need  to  support  a  culture  of  prevention  across  the 
three  pillars  of  ASEAN  and  encapsulates  six  driving 
principles  —  first,  promoting  a  culture  of  peace  and 
intercultural  understanding;  secondly,  promoting  a 
culture of respect for all; thirdly, promoting a culture 
of  good  governance  at  all  levels;  fourthly,  promoting 
a  culture  of  resilience  and  care  for  the  environment; 
fifthly,  promoting  a  culture  of  leading  a  healthy 
lifestyle; and sixthly, promoting a culture of supporting 
the values of moderation.
We  believe  that  ASEAN’s  initiative  to  promote 
a  culture  of  prevention complements  the  culture 
of  sustainable  peace  and  the  prevention  agenda at 
the  United  Nations,  and  we  look  forward  to  closer 
cooperation with the Organization in jointly developing 
project initiatives to promote a culture of prevention.
ASEAN  also  places  great  emphasis  on  quality 
education  and  inculcating  the  values  of  togetherness, 
harmony  and  tolerance  from  a  very  young  age.  We 
have  several  initiatives  in  that  regard,  such  as  the 
ASEAN  Youth  Volunteer  Programme,  a  dedicated 
volunteer platform for young people that supports the 
exchange  of  learning  experiences,  seeks  to  develop 
capacities  and  enhance  cross-cultural  understanding 
and  good  neighbourliness  and  fosters  a  sense  of 
shared responsibility.
18-43387
5/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
Furthermore,  we  were  happy  to  participate  in  the 
convening  of  the  second  ASEAN  Youth  Interfaith 
Camp in Indonesia last month, which brought together 
a  religiously  and  culturally  diverse  group  of  young 
people  from  the  region  to  participate  in  dialogue, 
discussions  and  seminars.  There  is  certainly  much 
interest  in  making  that  a  recurring  project,  and  we 
encourage  the  international  community,  in  particular 
our  dialogue  partners,  to  collaborate  with  ASEAN  in 
supporting that initiative.
ASEAN  commends  the  work  of  various  regional 
and  international  organizations,  notably  the  United 
Nations, for promoting a culture of peace and stressing 
the  importance  of  intercultural  and  interreligious 
dialogue.  Given  that  next  year  marks  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  the 
convening in September of the High-level Forum on the 
Culture of Peace was timely and afforded participants 
the opportunity to exchange views on ways to further 
promote a culture of peace.
We welcome the invaluable role of the United Nations 
Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  promoting  intercultural 
dialogue,  greater  understanding  and  respect  among 
civilizations,  cultures,  religions  and  beliefs.  ASEAN 
appreciates the role played by Turkey and Spain, as the 
sponsors  of  the  Alliance,  at  its  eighth  Global  Forum,
held  recently  in  New  York.  The  Secretary-General’s 
strong support of that initiative is also much appreciated. 
Finally, we want to acknowledge the dedicated service 
and outstanding contribution made to the Alliance by 
the outgoing High Representative.
ASEAN continues to support efforts by UNESCO, 
including through its action plan for the International 
Decade for the Rapprochement of Cultures (2013-2022). 
We are pleased to note the emphasis on harnessing the 
potential of the media to foster mutual understanding 
and  respect,  tolerance  and  cooperation,  as  well  as 
the  involvement  of  youth  and  women  in  cultivating  a 
culture of peace.
In  conclusion,  ASEAN  remains  steadfast 
in 
its  commitment  to  upholding  a  culture  of  peace,  as 
enshrined in our founding principles and Charter, and 
will continue to play an active role in that endeavour. 
We  stand  ready  to  work  alongside  all  regional  and 
international partners and complement the work of the 
United Nations to that end.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation has taken note of the report of the Secretary-
General  (A/73/391)  on  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of 
peace  and  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue, 
understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace,  which 
reviews progress in the reporting period on preventing 
conflict and maintaining peace, as well as the measures 
taken at the level of the United Nations system.
The concept of a culture of peace has been closely 
linked  to  the  United  Nations  Organization  since  its 
inception in 1945. The Preamble to the Charter of the 
United Nations states:
“We 
the  peoples  of 
the  United  Nations 
determined  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
the  scourge  of  war…  and  to  reaffirm  faith  in 
fundamental human rights”.
UNESCO  has  also  played  a  crucial  role  in  the 
inclusion  of  issues  related  to  peace  and  a  culture  of 
peace  in  all  its  programmes  and  regular  activities,  in 
line with its Constitution, which states that “since wars 
begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that 
the defences of peace must be constructed”. In addition, 
in its resolution 53/243 of 6 October 1999, on a culture 
of  peace,  the  General  Assembly  provided  guidelines 
for  Governments, 
international  organizations  and 
civil  society  that  can  be  used  to  support  and  foster  a 
culture of peace. The link between culture and peace 
has  therefore  become  established  as  a  new  concept 
in peacebuilding.
We  all  know  that  peace  involves  reconciliation 
between  two  parties  in  the  presence  of  harmony 
and  the  absence  of  hatred.  In  that  regard,  peace  is  a 
state of harmony, security and stability in the family, 
society  and  the  whole  world,  since  it  contributes  to 
prosperity  for  all.  We  must  work  to  realize  the  three 
concepts  of  peace:  peacemaking  —  helping 
the 
parties  to  a  conflict  to  reach  a  negotiated  agreement; 
peacekeeping — preventing parties from relapsing into 
conflict;  and  peacebuilding  —  creating  the  necessary 
conditions for societies to live in peace. That involves 
work  on  many  levels,  such  as  educating  people  about 
human 
rights,  achieving  economic  development, 
increasing aid and realizing social solidarity.
Fostering a culture of peace requires that we work 
together,  shoulder  to  shoulder,  to  combat  intellectual 
extremism in all of its forms and manifestations, such 
as  the  exclusion  of  others  and  incitement  to  violence. 
It  requires  educating  our  young  people  and  nurturing 
6/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
our educational institutions. The role of the media and 
modern technical means must also be revitalized.
The concept of peace does not mean merely putting 
an end to war. As I have said before, it is an ongoing 
process  that  must  be  based  on  a  set  of  values  and 
principles  for  the  creation  of  a  culture  of  peace  that 
brings  stability  to  human  societies  and  constitutes  a 
source of power and prosperity.
is  a  commitment 
inclusive  societies.  It  stresses 
We all know that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
to  strengthening 
Development 
that 
peaceful  and 
sustainable  development  cannot  be  achieved  without 
peace and security, which is why we must work together 
to  achieve  Sustainable  Development  Goal  16  and 
ensure  that  inclusive  and  participatory  decisions  are 
made at all levels with a view to achieving sustainable 
development.  We  emphasize  that  Governments,  the 
international community and local communities should 
work  together  to  implement  lasting  solutions  to  end 
violence, achieve justice and guarantee the participation 
of all.
The  promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace  and 
interreligious and intercultural dialogue, understanding 
and  cooperation  for  peace  does  not  mean  fusing 
religions and faiths or even cultures. Rather, a culture 
of peace is the sphere within which people’s religions 
and  cultures  coexist.  The  aim  of  dialogue  among 
civilizations  is  to  study  and  address  the  root  causes 
of  their  differences  and  to  humbly  learn  the  ethics  of 
tolerating those differences.
Advancing  a  culture  of  peace  is  a  process  that 
requires belief and freedom of thought and expression, 
as well as the eradication of poverty and unemployment 
and fostering public awareness about the peacemaking 
process. It is impossible to instil a culture of peace and 
non-violence in people who are deprived of their most 
basic right to a decent life. My country calls from this 
rostrum  for  the  Assembly  to  respect  and  apply  such 
rights in order to create a better world that will include 
all  of  us,  a  world  that  enjoys  friendliness,  tolerance 
and peace.
In  conclusion,  I  thank  all  Member  States  that 
submitted draft resolutions calling for the promotion of 
a culture of peace and interreligious and intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace, 
which will foster the principles of tolerance and respect 
for cultural diversity as a means to prevent the outbreak 
of conflicts.
Mr.  Mohammad  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/73/391),  which 
contains information on topics and actions undertaken 
by  key  United  Nations  entities  in  order  to  promote  a 
culture  of  peace  and  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace. My 
country  also  commends  all  the  efforts,  good  offices 
and  pivotal  role  of  UNESCO  in  strengthening  and 
consolidating  a  culture  of  peace,  culminating  in  the 
implementation  of  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action on a Culture of Peace and the Action Plan for 
the  International  Decade  for  the  Rapprochement  of 
Cultures (2013-2022).
More  than  ever  before,  the  world  today  is  facing 
increasingly  complex  threats  and  challenges  at  all 
levels — State, societal and even individual — including 
challenges  and  threats  that  undermine  and  threaten 
the spread of a culture of peace. Regrettably, disputes 
and  conflicts  are  sometimes  fuelled  by  intolerance, 
extremism, violence and religious and ethnic tensions, 
owing to, among other things, the rejection of others, 
intolerance,  exclusion  and  a  lack  of  awareness  of 
the  need  to  coexist.  Some  have  been  using  violent 
extremism as a means of expression. Such acts prompt 
us to make concerted efforts at the local, regional and 
international  levels  to  achieve  the  goal  to  which  we 
all  aspire,  namely,  to  transform  the  culture  of  hatred, 
intolerance and war into one of dialogue, coexistence 
and  peace.  In  that  context,  Sustainable  Development 
Goal  16  represents  a  compass  and  a  road  map  for  all 
countries and societies to achieve that goal, which calls 
for establishing inclusive and peaceful societies for all. 
As peace and development are interrelated, promoting 
a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue  among  societies  and 
is  crucial 
religions 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.
to  achieving 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  highlights 
important  tools  and  means  for  contributing  to  the 
achievement  of  peace,  such  as  preventive  diplomacy, 
conflict  prevention,  mediation  and  dialogue.  In  that 
regard,  we  call  on  Member  States  and  international 
and  regional  organizations  to  redouble  their  efforts 
to  operationalize  such  preventive  tools  and  measures, 
which  aim  to  prevent  conflicts  by  tackling  them  as 
soon as they emerge and determining their root causes. 
Preventive diplomacy, mediation and the resolution of 
conflicts by peaceful means are fundamental pillars of 
Kuwaiti foreign policy. Applying those tools has been 
18-43387
7/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
a  priority  for  the  State  of  Kuwait  during  its  current 
membership on the Security Council.
A  culture  of  peace  is  deeply  entrenched  in  my 
country. One of the articles of the Kuwaiti Constitution 
explicitly states that peace is the goal of the State. In 
the  State  of  Kuwait,  we  have  fostered  freedom  and 
a  culture  of  tolerance  and  coexistence  as  a  means  of 
developing  our  society.  The  Constitution  of  the  State 
of  Kuwait  enshrines  those  values  and  concepts  in  its 
articles, which set forth the rights and duties of every 
citizen, irrespective of their ethnicity, origin, language 
or religion. The Constitution also stresses that justice, 
freedom and equality are the pillars of our society and 
that  cooperation  and  compassion  forge  a  strong  bond 
among citizens.
The  State  of  Kuwait  is  ranked  highest  among 
Middle East and North African countries on the 2018 
Global Peace Index, reflecting my country’s faith in a 
culture of peace, which was deeply rooted in Kuwaiti 
society even before the emergence of our modern State. 
That culture includes tolerance, the acceptance of others 
and  dialogue  among  different  cultures  and  religions. 
Our  history  shows  many  examples  of  rapprochement 
with  and  openness  towards  different  peoples  and 
civilizations.  In  our  modern  era,  those  values  have 
been translated into our Constitution, which guarantees 
the right to freedom of speech, freedom of belief and 
freedom  of  practicing  religious  rituals,  in  complete 
liberty and safety.
The State of Kuwait is considered an amalgam of 
different peoples, embracing people of many different 
nationalities, religions and cultures who enjoy security, 
stability, mutual respect and a dignified life.
In  conclusion,  my  country’s  delegation  stresses 
the  importance  of  intensifying  our  efforts  to  promote 
a  culture  of  peace,  reinvigorate  the  dialogue  among 
civilizations,  disseminate  the  values  of  moderation, 
tolerance and mutual respect and renounce extremism, 
hatred and violence in all its forms and manifestations. 
That is a responsibility that must be shouldered by all 
Member  States  and  that  requires  us  to  work  together 
through our multilateral system.
Ms.  Al  Daah  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  A  culture  of  peace  is  not  a  new  concept  for 
us.  Our  shared  values  call  for  tolerance,  respect  and 
appreciation  for  individuals,  irrespective  of  their 
ethnicity,  religion,  culture  or  ideology.  That  is  a 
fundamental  principle  of  the  Muslim,  Christian  and 
Jewish faiths and others. The United Nations is working 
to  enhance  a  culture  of  peace.  It  represents  a  forum 
in  which  we  celebrate  the  differences  that  enrich  our 
human civilizations and the multiplicity of our cultures. 
United  Nations  principles  are  based  on  strengthening 
friendly inter-State relations while promoting dialogue 
and  understanding  among  peoples  and  nations  in 
order  to  unite  international  efforts  to  achieve  peace 
throughout the world.
Despite  the  progress  that  has  been  made  in  this 
area,  the  world  is  now  in  dire  need  of  intensified 
international  efforts 
to  disseminate  a  culture  of 
peace and dialogue among religions and civilizations, 
because  we  are  facing  the  dangerous  threat  posed  by 
extremist  and  terrorist  groups  that  seek  to  achieve 
their destructive goals through hatred and sectarianism 
among individuals. Those groups try to destroy human 
and  civilized  values  and  cultural  heritage  in  order  to 
establish a culture based on violence and extremism.
Since  its  founding,  my  country  has  realized  that 
building  strong  and  coherent  societies  and  stable  and 
secure  States  requires  strengthening  the  values  of 
tolerance, respect and the acceptance of other people. 
We  recall  the  late  Zayed  Bin  Sultan  Al  Nahyan, 
leader  and  founder  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
whose  100th  birthday  we  are  celebrating  this  year, 
who  fostered  human  and  compassionate  values  and 
whose  just  principles  and  wise  leadership  left  a  great 
legacy for successive Emirati generations, which they 
have  emulated  in  our  country’s  domestic  and  foreign 
relations.  There  are  representatives  of  more  than  200 
nationalities  living  in  my  country  today  in  peace 
and harmony.
Based  on  that,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
become a centre of tolerance and rapprochement among 
religions  and  global  civilizations.  We  have  embraced 
mosques, churches and many other houses of worship 
so as to enable all to practice their religions. In order 
to  entrench  a  culture  of  tolerance  among  religions, 
my  country  gave  the  Sheikh  Mohammed  Bin  Zayed 
Mosque  in  Abu  Dhabi  the  name  Mary  the  Mother  of 
Jesus  Mosque.  We  held  the  first  World  Tolerance 
Summit in November, chaired by the State Minister for 
Tolerance, which was attended by 1,500 representatives 
from  Governments,  media,  cultural  and  academic 
organizations,  as  well  as  peace  experts  and  religious 
leaders from around the world. I would like to take this 
opportunity  to  announce  that  Pope  Francis,  a  world 
symbol of peace and tolerance, will visit Abu Dhabi in 
8/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
February to participate in an international interreligious 
dialogue entitled “Human brotherhood”.
Minister  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  said  at  the 
inauguration of the Louvre Museum in Abu Dhabi:
My  country  is  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolutions 
(A/73/L.43, A/73/L.48, A/73/L.52 and A/73/L.55) to be 
adopted under today’s agenda item, based on our belief 
in their importance in spreading a culture of peace. In 
that  regard,  we  would  like  to  recommend  taking  the 
following  fundamental  steps  to  promote  a  culture  of 
peace, in line with respect for the principles established 
by the Charter of the United Nations.
First, national, regional and international strategies 
must  be  put  in  place  to  promote  peace  and  tolerance 
among  peoples.  We  stress  that  those  strategies  must 
be  inclusive,  in  order  to  address  the  root  causes  of 
extremism, while ensuring that every sector of society, 
especially  minorities,  can  enjoy  protection  from 
crimes such as those committed against the Yazidi and 
Rohingya peoples.
Secondly, specialized agencies must be established 
to implement those strategies. For example, my country 
hosted the Council of Muslim Sages and the Forum for 
Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies in order to engage 
religious leaders in promoting a culture of peace. The 
Sawab  Centre  in  Abu  Dhabi  is  intended  to  combat 
extremist  thought  and  foster  a  culture  of  peace  and 
tolerance. And the International Institute for Tolerance 
supports those values in the Arab world.
Thirdly, relevant legislation must be adopted, such as 
the United Arab Emirates law to combat discrimination 
and hatred, which criminalizes discrimination against 
individuals  or  groups  of  people  based  on  religion, 
sect,  ethnicity,  colour  or  origin,  while  fighting  the 
exploitation of religion through takfir.
Lastly,  there  must  be  innovative  initiatives  to 
promote  a  culture  of  peace  and  openness  among  all 
generations of young people. In that regard, we should 
focus  on  curriculums  and  school  programmes  that 
play  a  crucial  role  in  instilling  awareness  in  future 
generations  so  that  they  can  confront  extremism. 
My  country  has  initiated  the  Mohammed  Bin  Rashid 
Tolerance Award with the aim of producing young Arab 
leaders  in  tolerance-related  areas  to  support  cultural 
and media initiatives designed to entrench tolerance as 
a value in the Arab world.
In  conclusion,  His  Highness  Sheikh  Mohammed 
Bin  Rashid  Al  Maktoum,  Vice-President  and  Prime 
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
“Welcome to a dome of enlightenment in a region 
where  people  of  dark  thoughts  are  attempting  to 
bring back the eras of backwardness and ignorance”.
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Camejo 
in 
Spanish): As we approach the twentieth anniversary of 
the  adoption  of  resolution  53/243,  Cuba  reiterates  the 
validity  of  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  as  well  as  our  commitment  to 
that agenda and multilateralism. First and foremost, the 
international community’s efforts to achieve peace must 
focus on full respect for the principles of the sovereignty, 
territorial integrity and political independence of States 
and  non-interference  in  matters  strictly  under  their 
domestic  jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law.  The  root 
causes of conflicts, including extreme poverty, hunger, 
inequality,  exclusion  and  a  lack  of  access  to  quality 
health  and  education  services,  must  be  eliminated 
immediately.  Understanding,  tolerance,  solidarity  and 
respect  for  the  cultures,  histories,  religions  and  the 
specificities of every nation must be promoted.
Despite the continued international call to achieve 
and strengthen a culture of peace, problems hindering 
and undermining the real possibilities of achieving such 
a noble goal persist. They include the covert promotion 
of  regime  change  in  developing  countries;  certain 
States’ violation of principles of international law; the 
use  or  threat  of  use  of  force,  which  runs  contrary  to 
the Charter of the United Nations; the development of 
new, more lethal and extremely sophisticated weapons, 
including  the  continued  existence  of  large  nuclear 
arsenals; unilateral coercive measures; and intolerance 
and discrimination based on ethnic, religious or racial 
grounds.  All  of  that  must  end.  A  culture  of  peace 
also  requires  the  unwavering  condemnation  of  all 
acts,  methods  and  practices  of  terrorism,  as  well  as 
concrete  action  to  combat  that  scourge,  regardless  of 
the  form  it  takes  and  who  perpetrates  it,  including 
terrorism  perpetrated  by  States.  Nor  do  manipulative 
policies and double standards on issues such as human 
rights, aimed at singling out developing countries and 
discrediting  their  legitimate  Governments,  contribute 
to the ideal of a culture of peace. The Proclamation of 
Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace, 
adopted in 2014 in Havana during the second Summit 
of Heads of State and Government of the Community 
of Latin American and Caribbean States, demonstrated 
18-43387
9/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
our  region’s  commitment  to  strengthening  peace  and 
negotiated  solutions  to  conflicts  and  differences,  as 
well  as  representing  a  contribution  to  the  culture  of 
peace at the international level. We therefore reaffirm 
its full force and effect.
We take this opportunity to express Cuba’s gratitude 
and  support  for  the  draft  resolutions  (A/73/L.43, 
A/73/L.48, A/73/L.52 and A/73/L.55) presented under 
this  agenda  item.  They  are  all  very  relevant.  We 
note  in  particular  draft  resolution  A/73/L.48,  on  an 
international day of multilateralism and diplomacy for 
peace,  introduced  by  the  representative  of  Venezuela 
on behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. 
That initiative demonstrates the firm commitment of the 
Movement’s members and observers to fostering peace, 
understanding and mutual respect among nations. We 
count on everyone’s support for its adoption.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  The  natural  form 
of  human  culture  is  peace,  not  war.  For  every  one 
of  us  to  live  a  normal  life,  we  have  to  communicate 
with  other  human  beings  with  love  and  compassion. 
Governments,  individuals,  civil-society  organizations 
and  international  organizations,  including  the  United 
Nations system, can work individually and collectively 
to restore that natural human relationship, cultivate the 
values  of  respect,  promote  mutual  understanding  and 
cherish our shared human identity.
Yet those ideals and the principles that underpin the 
Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of 
Peace, adopted by the General Assembly in 1999, are 
under threat. Innocent women and men, girls and boys 
are attacked because of their ethnicity or religion. The 
Declaration  rightly  puts  enormous  faith  in  the  power 
of  education,  propelled  by  an  extraordinary  level  of 
political  commitment  to  overcoming  such  challenges. 
We are quite encouraged to observe, based on the report 
of the Secretary-General (A/73/391), the progress that 
UNESCO has made, especially in incorporating the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the targets of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  in  its  programme 
of work to promote a culture of peace. We encourage 
UNESCO to work more closely with Governments and 
education providers in various countries to ensure that 
the  knowledge  that  is  being  transferred  to  students 
is  founded  on  the  values  of  inclusivity,  tolerance  and 
respect. It is important to ensure that the creative minds 
of  children  and  young  people  are  taught  to  recognize 
and  appreciate  the  mutual  dependence  whereby  we 
naturally rely on one another rather than the factors that 
divide us.
Maldives believes that we must work to overcome the 
challenges that countries face in maintaining a continued 
focus on the Declaration on a Culture of Peace. Among 
the most important relevant challenges, especially for 
small  island  developing  States  such  as  Maldives,  is 
climate-induced  threats.  Vulnerable  populations  and 
their  cultural  heritage,  which  make  up  a  significant 
part of the global tapestry of diversity, require security. 
The  changing  climate,  which  the  disasters  we  have 
experienced in recent years have made apparent, puts 
the sustainability of a culture of peace at risk.
The  media,  especially  social  media,  represent  an 
important  platform  for  disseminating  information. 
At  the  same  time,  we  have  a  collective  responsibility 
to  ensure  that  advances  in  technology  are  used  to 
increase awareness and educate, not incite hatred and 
intolerance.  The  Maldives  condemns  all  attempts  to 
promote  violent  extremism  and  terrorist  activities. 
Terrorism  is  the  antithesis  of  a  culture  of  peace,  and 
therefore we must take a stand against terrorism in all 
its forms and manifestations with full conviction.
The  newly  elected  President  of  Maldives, 
Mr. Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, believes that cultivating 
a  culture  of  peace  requires  a  policy  shift  towards 
tolerance, respect, acceptance and unity. That includes 
respect  for  democratic  values  and  principles  that  can 
foster  a  culture  of  peace  while  eliminating  all  forms 
of  prejudices,  discrimination  and  marginalization. 
At  the  international  level,  it  involves  ending  coercive 
measures  to  resolve  conflict  and  overcoming  issues 
through  negotiations  and  dialogue.  My  Government 
hopes that today’s discussions and the draft resolutions 
(A/73/L.43, A/73/L.48, A/73/L.52 and A/73/L.55) that 
we are about to adopt will help strengthen our faith and 
efforts  in  promoting  the  values  and  principles  in  the 
Declaration on a Culture of Peace so that we can create 
a more tolerant global society for a more harmonious 
and peaceful world for generations to come.
Mr. Elnour (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): I would first 
like to thank the Secretary-General for his report before 
us  (A/73/391).  I  also  thank  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Bangladesh  for  facilitating  the  negotiations  on  draft 
resolution A/73/L.43, to be adopted today.
to  express  our 
thanks  and 
appreciation  to  UNESCO  for  its  leading  role  in 
consolidating  a  culture  of  peace  and  coordinating 
We  also  want 
10/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
efforts  by  United  Nations  agencies,  programmes  and 
all  other  international  partners  in  this  vital  domain. 
This  is  an  increasingly  important  area,  given  the 
growing  problems  of  xenophobia,  targeting  migrants 
and  refugees,  Islamophobia  and  populist  rhetoric  in 
many parts of the world. If we do not take measures to 
address them as soon as possible, they will damage the 
future of peace and security throughout the world.
We  also  want  to  note  the  importance  of  providing 
the  necessary  support  to  developing  countries  so  that 
they  can  build  their  national  capabilities  in  areas 
directly  related  to  a  culture  of  peace,  strengthening 
national  unity  and  implementing  the  eight  action 
areas  of  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  with  a  view  to  leaving  no  one 
behind  in  implementing  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  It  is  important  to  note  that  developing  nations 
are the countries most affected by armed conflict, and 
some face great challenges in managing diversity. It is 
therefore important to implement intensive programmes 
on  a  culture  of  peace,  with  the  aim  of  strengthening 
the values of tolerance, respect for others and peaceful 
coexistence as a firm foundation for sustainable peace 
in the future. We must also work together in order to 
enable  those  States  to  benefit  from  the  tremendous 
communication and information technology revolution 
and the great opportunities for enhancing a culture of 
peace and tolerance, as opposed to using such modern 
technology to promote xenophobia, reject the other and 
advance stereotypes.
the 
The  Sudan  firmly  believes  that  preventing  wars 
and silencing guns are a first step necessary to promote 
a culture of peace, especially in countries dealing with 
internal conflicts. My country has made tireless efforts 
to achieve peace and security in neighbouring countries. 
Mediation  undertaken  by 
Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development  and  led  by  my  country 
culminated  on  12  September  in  the  signing  of  the 
Revitalized Peace Agreement on the Resolution of the 
Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan. My country 
is  also  making  tireless  efforts  within  the  framework 
of  the  African  Union  (AU)  to  achieve  peace  and 
reconciliation in the Central African Republic. In that 
regard, my delegation would like to express its hope for 
support  from  all  the  relevant  parties  and  the  AU.  On 
29 November, my country hosted a meeting of Foreign 
Ministers  of  Libya’s  neighbours  to  advance  the  peace 
process  in  that  brother  country,  and  that  was  on  top 
of efforts that we undertook with Chad, Libya and the 
Niger with a view to securing Libya’s southern border. 
We  hope  those  efforts  will  be  successful  in  terms  of 
achieving peace and stability in our sister State of Libya.
With  respect  to  completing  the  peace  process  in 
the  Sudan,  my  Government  is  continuing  its  tireless 
and  intensive  efforts  to  resume  negotiations  with  the 
armed movements in Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue 
Nile states. We hope that African mediation efforts and 
those of all our other partners will come to fruition and 
help to promote a culture of peace. We are also making 
efforts  to  extend  the  ceasefire  in  order  to  ensure  an 
environment conducive to holding political negotiations 
and facilitating humanitarian work.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to  stress 
that a culture of peace at the international level can be 
established and strengthened only in a world where there 
is strict commitment to the principles of international 
law and respect for the Charter of the United Nations, 
one  where  conflicts  are  resolved  through  peaceful 
means and preventive diplomacy, while avoiding double 
standards  in  international  politics,  respecting  human 
rights and eschewing political manipulation.
Mr.  Al  Shuaibi  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/73/391)  on  the 
activities of United Nations entities to promote a culture 
of  peace  and  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue 
stresses  the  importance  of  preventive  diplomacy  and 
adapting the concepts of peacebuilding and sustaining 
peace. The efforts of UNESCO and other organizations 
noted  in  the  report  faced  significant  challenges  from 
issues such  increased migration, growing populations 
and technological advances, highlighting the fact that 
intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue  are  more 
important than ever.
The  Sultanate  of  Oman  has  a  diverse  heritage  of 
culture and civilization. Historically, the people of Oman 
have communicated with peoples all over the world and 
have promoted peace through their dealings and ethical 
behaviour, especially maritime voyages, which imbued 
our  people  with  diverse  cultural  experiences  and 
confidence in their values, enabling Oman to establish 
strong  partnerships  with  countries  around  the  world. 
We  have  also  benefited  from  our  unique  geographic 
location,  which  has  helped  us  strengthen  our  foreign 
relations and support regional and international peace.
Based  on  our  firm  positions,  as  established  by 
Sultan  Qaboos  Bin  Said,  the  State  of  Oman  has  been 
able  to  build  the  right  foundations  for  tolerance  and 
18-43387
11/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
coexistence  within  Omani  society,  promoting  them 
through  an  inclusive  development  policy  in  all  areas 
of  society,  while  consolidating  legal,  educational  and 
media  values  and  giving  human  values  sustainability 
and depth at the individual and societal levels. Omani 
people have therefore been encouraged to be open and 
respectful  of  other  peoples  while  maintaining  their 
personal Omani culture, of which they are proud.
El  Salvador  believes 
that  safeguarding  and 
promoting  historical  memory  and  a  culture  of  peace 
is  a  decisive  element  in  building  a  tolerant  society 
capable  of  harmonious  coexistence.  It  also  offers  a 
wide range of possibilities and capacities for promoting 
a comprehensive transformation aimed at achieving an 
inclusive society, especially where historically excluded 
population groups are concerned.
With regard to the concept of intercultural dialogue, 
the  Sultanate  of  Oman  has  adopted  several  measures 
to make its successful experience known abroad. That 
includes,  for  example,  a  series  of  exhibitions  entitled 
“The  Message  of  Islam  from  Oman”.  Many  scientific 
chairs  and  fellowships  have  also  been  established  in 
numerous world-renowned universities. There are now 
16  Sultan  Qaboos  Scientific  Chairs  so  far,  teaching 
about Arab and Islamic cultures and their relationship 
to other cultures and religions.
Regarding other Government actions, the National 
Omani  Commission 
for  Education,  Culture  and 
Science  is  launching  an  international  initiative  to 
foster    communication  between  cultures  designed  to 
enable young people from around the world to meet in 
our country and conduct a cultural dialogue aimed at 
promoting the concepts of tolerance and acceptance of 
others. The Sultanate of Oman also annually invites a 
number of students from other countries to teach them 
Arabic, part of a policy of introducing young people to 
other cultures and languages.
With  regard  to  international  relations,  our  firm 
policies  are  based  on  the  concepts  of  mutual  respect, 
good-neighbourliness and the promotion of justice and 
international  legitimacy  and  non-interference  in  the 
affairs  of  other  countries  so  as  to  foster  international 
peace and security.
In conclusion, we thank all the countries that have 
submitted draft resolutions on a culture of peace, all of 
which we emphatically support.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  My  delegation  welcomes  the  adoption  of 
the  annual  draft  resolution  contained  in  document 
A/73/L.43,  on  the  follow-up  to  the  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  which 
highlights the important inclusion of the promotion of 
a culture of peace in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  As  always,  we  thank  the  Permanent 
Mission  of  Bangladesh  for  its  efforts  to  facilitate  the 
draft resolution.
The  draft  resolution  highlights  the  contribution 
of  early-childhood  development  to  the  development 
of  more  peaceful  societies.  In  that  regard,  one  of  my 
Government’s objectives is to ensure not only that girls 
and  boys  complete  primary  and  secondary  education, 
but  also  that  they  emerge  with  relevant  and  effective 
academic 
for 
coexistence and a culture of peace.
including  an  appreciation 
results, 
Our  country  highlights  the  important  role  played 
by  women  and  young  people  in  contributing  to 
prevention and conflict resolution in peacebuilding, as 
evident in our national promotion of Security Council 
resolutions  1325  (2000)  and  2250  (2015),  on  the  role 
of  women  and  youth  in  peace  and  security,  on  which 
my country has made progress in establishing national 
plans and committees.
We greatly appreciate the call in the draft resolution 
that we are about to adopt for ensuring that the United 
Nations peacebuilding architecture continues to promote 
post-conflict  consolidation  activities  and  achieving 
sustainable  peace.  At  the  national  level,  El  Salvador, 
both  as  a  member  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and  of  the  General  Assembly,  actively  participated  in 
this year’s negotiations on the peace and security pillar 
reforms proposed by the Secretary-General.
the 
This  draft  resolution  is  becoming  a  frame  of 
implementation  of  actions  and 
reference  for 
decision-making  in  countries  such  as  mine  that  have 
moved from conflict towards peace. In El Salvador we 
reached a predominantly political  peace agreement that 
enabled us to end our conflict, but today, 26 years after 
that  feat,  we  realize  that  a  political  agreement  is  not 
enough, and that a national socioeconomic agreement 
that includes all sectors of the population is essential.
My  Government  recognizes  the  importance  of 
building a culture of peace in the process of implementing 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With regard 
to  SDG  16,  El  Salvador  has  already  joined  a  global 
working  alliance  through  which,  between  2015  and 
12/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
October of this year, we reduced the homicide rate in 
our country by 27 per cent. We did that by implementing 
policies, plans and institutions for safety and security 
and  peaceful  coexistence  among  our  citizens,  while 
giving women a leading role, deepening alliances with 
non-State actors and increasing statistical capacities.
As  part  of  creating  an  inclusive  and  participative 
society,  we  believe  it  is  important  to  develop  and 
establish  strong  institutions  aimed  at  disseminating 
and promoting a culture of access to information and 
Government  accountability.  We  have  established  a 
secretariat for active transparency in order to promote 
initiatives to reduce all forms of corruption and bribery.
We  would  obviously  like  to  highlight  UNESCO’s 
work in mobilizing actors and synergies in support of a 
culture of peace, and we consider it important to ensure 
that  all  Member  States  support  UNESCO  in  playing 
an active role in implementing a culture of peace and 
its  linkages  with  the  various  targets  and  Goals  of  the 
2030  Agenda,  as  well  as  in  the  related  events  taking 
place here in New York. In that regard, we also want to 
highlight  paragraph  16  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.43, 
and  to  reiterate  to  the  President  of  the  Assembly  our 
recommendation  that  we  convene  a  high-level  forum 
dedicated to the implementation of the Programme of 
Action in September 2019, as part of its follow-up and 
ties to the sustainable development frameworks in force 
since 2015.
Mr.  Suan  (Myanmar):  My  delegation  thanks 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
(A/73/391), and UNESCO for its valuable input.
My delegation aligns itself with the statement made 
by the representative of Brunei Darussalam on behalf 
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
We would also like to express our appreciation to 
all delegations that have taken the initiative to present 
draft resolutions under this agenda item.
Building  peace  and  national  reconciliation  are 
the most important tasks that the Government and the 
people of Myanmar are undertaking today to ensure the 
rule  of  law,  stability,  democracy  and  development  in 
our country. A series of 21st Century Panglong Peace 
Conferences is being held to forge lasting peace. The 
Conferences seek to put an end to the armed strife that 
has ravaged Myanmar since it became an independent 
nation in 1948, and to build a democratic federal union 
founded on lasting unity created out of diversity. Our 
national experience has taught us that the road to peace 
has never been an easy path to tread, but that it is the 
only way that will lead to our long-held aspiration of a 
peaceful and prosperous nation. We believe in a culture 
of  dialogue  for  reconciling  differences,  building 
trust  and  confidence  and  pursuing  lasting  peace  and 
sustainable development for all.
Myanmar  is  one  of  the  most  ethnically  diverse 
countries  in  the  world.  It  is  home  to  135  officially 
recognized ethnic groups, each with its own distinctive 
culture  and  adherence 
to  different  faiths.  As  a 
multireligious  country,  where  faithful  followers  of 
all  four  major  religions  live  in  peace  and  harmony, 
freedom  of  religion  and  the  right  to  preserve  one’s 
cultural  identity  and  heritage  are  guaranteed  by  the 
Constitution. The promotion of interfaith dialogue plays 
a  vital  role  in  creating  a  culture  of  tolerance,  mutual 
respect and understanding among people from diverse 
religions  and  cultures.  We  have  established  interfaith 
friendship groups at the national level, with more than 
100 subgroups across the country. Interfaith dialogues, 
awareness talks and combined prayer services for peace 
and national reconciliation have been held all over the 
country.
Recently, on 1 November, we held a Religions for 
Peace Advisory Forum on National Reconciliation and 
Peace in Myanmar at the highest national level in order 
to  promote  peace  among  religions.  At  the  meeting, 
State  Counsellor  Daw  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  highlighted 
interfaith  dialogue  as  a  vital  path  to  peace,  saying 
that  we  must  promote  interfaith  dialogue  and  that 
respect  and  understanding  for  religious  and  cultural 
diversity contribute to lasting peace and security. She 
went  on  to  emphasize  that  for  interfaith  dialogue  to 
be truly effective, it should not be limited to religious 
leaders but should extend to all, so that it results in a 
meeting of hearts and minds. She also emphasized the 
importance of addressing education, which is essential 
in  overcoming  prejudices,  stereotyping,  mistrust  and 
discrimination.  Through  education  we  can  promote  a 
culture of peace that ensures mutual respect.
We  see  today  how  in  many  parts  of  the  world 
religion  is  being  misused  by  extremists  to  justify 
violence and acts of terrorism. Intolerance and religious 
extremism are extremely damaging to sustaining peace 
and  harmony  in  a  diverse  society.  We  must  address 
the  root  causes  of  violent  extremism.  The  terrorist 
attacks committed by the Arakan Rohingya Salvation 
Army,  which  began  in  October  2016  and  recurred 
18-43387
13/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
on  25  August  2017  in  northern  Rakhine  state,  have 
triggered  an  immense  humanitarian  problem  that  has 
affected innocent people of all religions. Today peace 
and  reconciliation  are  urgently  needed  in  Rakhine 
state. In fact, for my Government the rule of law and 
development in Rakhine are among its highest priorities 
in  addressing  long-neglected,  fundamental  issues  of 
fear,  anger,  frustration  and  poverty  in  the  region.  We 
believe in finding constructive and sustainable ways to 
build  harmony  and  trust  among  all  communities  and 
bring about peace and prosperity for all in Rakhine.
Sustainable  peace  is  not  simply  the  absence  of 
conflict.  The  presence  of  values  and  beliefs  in  our 
hearts will strengthen peace and reconciliation. In this 
increasingly interconnected and interdependent world, 
we must all work together in partnership for peace and 
development  through  dialogue  on  a  basis  of  equality 
and mutual respect.
Sustainable  peace  is  essential  for  sustainable 
development. Peace and development are two sides of 
the  same  coin.  Only  by  promoting  a  culture  of  peace 
will it be possible to create peace and harmony among 
diverse communities and societies, thereby creating a 
conducive  environment  and  favourable  conditions  for 
sustainable  development.  I  am  confident  that  through 
dialogue  and  by  fostering  closer  cooperation  among 
different faiths, we will be able to build a global culture 
of peace that will ensure that our world is a better place, 
with a better future for succeeding generations.
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  The  efforts  of  the 
international community to promote a culture of peace 
have  gained  strong  impetus  from  the  relevant  annual 
resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  have 
proclaimed  fundamental  principles  and  commitments 
and defined a set of actions at the national, regional and 
global levels.
Azerbaijan  supports  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.43, 
A/73/L.48,  A/73/L.52  and  A/73/L.55,  and 
looks 
forward to their adoption by consensus. We thank the 
delegations of Bangladesh, the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela,  Uzbekistan,  Pakistan  and  the  Philippines 
for  their  skilful  efforts  and  leadership  in  facilitating 
the  negotiations  on  the  draft  resolutions  and  for  their 
strong  commitment  to  promoting  interreligious  and 
intercultural dialogue.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
acknowledges the world’s natural and cultural diversity 
and  recognizes  that  all  cultures  and  civilizations  can 
contribute  to  sustainable  development  and  are  crucial 
to enabling it. The promotion of a culture of peace is 
also  important  in  the  context  of  addressing  conflicts. 
Azerbaijan  fully  supports 
the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts aimed at preventing conflicts, responding early 
and  effectively  to  crisis  situations,  assisting  Member 
States  in  their  endeavours  to  sustain  peace  and  build 
resilient  and  prosperous  societies  and  making  the 
United  Nations  more  coherent,  integrated,  effective 
and efficient.
We  note  the  leading  role  of  UNESCO  and  the 
work of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations in 
promoting intercultural dialogue, and we commend the 
cooperation in that area between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations. Azerbaijan considers 
the  promotion  of 
interreligious 
dialogue at the national and international levels to be 
of major importance. In recent years, my country has 
hosted a number of results-oriented international events 
and  put  forward  important  initiatives  to  encourage 
dialogue and mutual understanding.
intercultural  and 
interreligious  and 
Among  them  is  the  Baku  Process,  successfully 
implemented  under  the  leadership  of  Azerbaijan, 
which provides a large-scale platform for the exchange 
of  knowledge  on 
intercultural 
dialogue.  In  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the 
topic submitted to the General Assembly at its seventy-
second  session  (A/72/488),  he  specifically  mentioned 
the  important  role  of  the  Baku  Process  in  advocating 
for  dialogue  among  cultures.  The  Process  marks  its 
tenth  anniversary  this  year,  with  the  high-level  sixth 
Baku  International  Humanitarian  Forum  held  earlier 
this  year  with  the  participation  of  Governments, 
international organizations, scholars, young people and 
civil society.
to 
the  reference 
An integral part of the Baku Process is the World 
Forum on Intercultural Dialogue, organized biennially 
by Azerbaijan in cooperation with several international 
organizations.  We  welcome 
the 
World  Forum  as  a  key  global  platform  for  promoting 
intercultural  dialogue  made  in  resolution  72/136, 
entitled “Promotion of interreligious and intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace”, 
and in draft resolution A/73/L.55, to be adopted today.
In the Secretary-General’s report on the promotion 
of a culture of peace and interreligious and intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace 
(A/73/391),  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
14/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
seventy-third  session,  he  also  noted  the  contribution 
of  the  Government  of  Azerbaijan  to  the  development 
by  UNESCO  of  its  e-platform  aimed  at  serving 
as  an 
to  facilitate  networking 
among  different  stakeholders  working  in  the  field  of 
intercultural dialogue.
international  hub 
inclusive 
Continued  support  from  the  United  Nations  and 
the  broader  international  community  for  successful 
initiatives on intercultural dialogue, a culture of peace 
and  multiculturalism  is  essential  to  building  peaceful 
and 
stereotypes 
and  misconceptions  and  implementing  development 
frameworks and policies. The Republic of Azerbaijan is 
keen to continue its efforts towards promoting mutual 
understanding,  respect  for  diversity  and  enhanced 
cooperation to that end.
societies,  overcoming 
Mr.  Arrocha  Ruíz  (Panama)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
My delegation would like to make a general statement 
on agenda item 15, entitled “Culture of peace”, and in 
that regard, I want to begin by welcoming the report of 
the  Secretary-General  (A/73/391)  entitled  “Promotion 
of a culture of peace and interreligious and intercultural 
dialogue, understanding and cooperation for peace”.
As  we  continue  the  International  Decade  for  the 
Rapprochement of Cultures (2013-2022), whose efforts 
are  led  by  UNESCO,  it  is  worth  reflecting  on  our 
current  global  context.  Although  the  United  Nations 
has promoted a series of measures aimed at promoting 
a culture of peace, the complex reality of conflicts in 
various  parts  of  the  world  that  threaten  international 
peace  and  security  demonstrates  the  importance  of 
focusing  on  adjusting  our  approach.  Consequently, 
as  we  commemorate  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Declaration and Programme of Action 
on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  the  international  community 
must  work  actively  to  renew  its  global  commitment 
undertaken  in  1999,  in  order  to  entrench  a  culture  of 
sustainable  peace  built  on  a  set  of  values,  attitudes, 
traditions, behaviours and lifestyles based on respect, 
non-violence,  the  promotion  of  human  rights,  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts,  the  protection  of  the 
environment, development, gender equity and freedom 
of expression and information, among other things.
As  we  have  noted  before,  a  culture  of  peace 
represents  the  very  essence  of  our  Organization  and 
cuts across the three pillars that guide the work of the 
United  Nations  —  sustainable  development,  peace 
and  security  and  human  rights.  We  therefore  agree 
that  collective  efforts  for  peacebuilding,  through  a 
preventive approach, are fundamental to promoting the 
inclusion of all actors in our society and ensuring that 
multilateralism attains its full significance.
Today’s  threats  to  peace  are  not  minor.  Our 
complex  global  reality  is  also  challenged  by  climate 
change, migration and terrorism, among other issues of 
concern to the international community, because they 
threaten our peoples’ lives. For that reason, addressing 
the  causes  of  conflicts  and  putting  into  practice  the 
principles of non-violence are objectives that have now 
become ever more important.
Panama welcomes the draft resolutions (A/73/L.43, 
A/73/L.48,  A/73/L.52  and  A/73/L.55)  to  be  adopted 
today  in  the  context  of  the  debate  under  the  item 
“Culture  of  peace”,  as 
they  essentially  promote 
knowledge  of,  and  respect  for,  cultural  diversity  in 
all  its  forms  —  tolerance,  solidarity,  equality  and 
non-discrimination.  In  that  regard,  and  in  line  with 
the  Secretary-General’s  approach  outlined 
in  his 
report, my country recognizes the role that women and 
young  people  can  play  in  peace  negotiations,  conflict 
prevention and especially in the consolidation of post-
conflict processes.
As  a  multi-ethnic  and  multicultural  country, 
Panama  has  unwavering  respect  for  cultural  and 
religious  diversity,  as  well  as  for  intercultural  and 
interreligious dialogue, and it is with that vision that in 
January next year we are honoured to be hosting World 
Youth Day, to be attended by Pope Francis. Panama will 
open its doors to receive young people from all over the 
world in the quest to achieve our shared and paramount 
objective  of  a  culture  of  peace,  thereby  overcoming 
religious and cultural barriers.
In  conclusion,  I  want 
to  reiterate  Panama’s 
commitment  to  observing  human  rights,  the  security 
and freedom of the individual, the promotion of conflict 
prevention,  peace  and  security  and  engagement  in 
dialogue  and  consensus-building  as  true  catalysts  for 
the promotion of a culture of tolerance and peace.
Mr. Mamdouhi (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 
first like to commend the President and her predecessors 
for  effectively  pursuing 
implementation  of 
this  important  mandate,  with  which  she  has  been 
entrusted by General Assembly resolutions, to further 
following up on realizing a culture of peace, promoting 
multilateralism and contributing to establishing a world 
against violence and violent extremism.
the 
18-43387
15/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
This  kind  of  meeting  undoubtedly  provides  us 
with  an  unparalleled  opportunity  to  consider  urgent 
challenges and highlight emerging trends that have an 
impact on the realization of a culture of peace, enable 
stakeholders  to  exchange  views  on  how  to  further 
promote and sustain peace through multilateralism and 
find further sound and decent solutions to the existing 
challenges in that regard.
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
by  the  representative  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  (NAM), 
especially NAM’s proposal to designate an international 
day  of  multilateralism  and  diplomacy  for  peace.  I 
would  like  to  briefly  highlight  a  number  of  issues  of 
particular importance.
We are witnessing how the current global scenario 
presents  great  challenges  in  the  areas  of  peace  and 
security.  Existing,  new  and  emerging  threats  and 
challenges  at  the  international  and  regional  levels 
continue to impede efforts by States to promote peace 
and security. Undoubtedly, one of those major threats is 
a growing resort to unilateralism.
Today,  as  the  Secretary-General  has  rightly  said, 
the  world  order  is  increasingly  chaotic,  democratic 
principles  are  under  siege,  the  rule  of  law  is  being 
undermined and multilateralism is under fire, precisely 
when  we  need  it  most.  In  fact,  unilaterally  imposed 
measures, the use or threat of use of force and unilateral 
coercive sanctions as a means to achieve national policy 
objectives have emerged in the wake of obvious failings 
in the multilateral system and equitable world order.
Moreover,  the  launching  of  unilateral  military 
invasions, a willingness to ignore historical facts on the 
ground and the rising threats of terrorism and violent 
extremism, which are the root causes of every crisis in 
the Middle East, are the sum effects of unilateralism. It 
cannot be ignored that withdrawing from international 
organizations,  especially  UNESCO  and  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  as  well  as 
international 
agreements  such  as 
the  Paris  Climate  Change 
Agreement and the Iran nuclear deal, are among other 
typical instances of a me-first, self-centred policy that 
flows from unilateralism.
from 
Threatening States’ sovereignty, independence and 
freedom of trade and investment and preventing them 
from exercising their right to decide their own political, 
economic and social systems by their own free will are 
policies  that  do  not  work  anymore.  A  me-first  policy 
might work at first but in the end is doomed to failure. 
In  that  respect,  challenges  to  peace  must  be  directly 
addressed at their root causes. We must therefore shift 
to a new, democratic and balanced approach.
If we are to handle the serious current challenges at 
the global level effectively, multilateralism is not just an 
option, it is the only option, and of course it is a viable 
and  realistic  one.  It  is  the  only  realistic  and  practical 
option for addressing global challenges collectively and 
pursuing  common  international  goals  cooperatively. 
The reason is simple. Certain transnational challenges 
and threats, such as terrorism, know no boundaries. It is 
therefore not possible for a single country or countries, 
however powerful, to address them.
We  must  promote  true,  effective  and  strong 
multilateralism. We must ensure that it is founded on 
inclusion  rather  than  exclusion,  cooperation  rather 
than  confrontation,  equality  rather  than  inequality, 
the rule of law rather than the rule of power. We must 
solve  differences  peacefully  and  justly,  not  violently 
and  unfairly.  We  must  also  pursue  the  common  good 
of  all  States,  not  the  goals  of  one  State  or  group  of 
States.  Nor  should  we  forget  that  in  order  to  promote 
multilateralism,  we  must  build  on  the  important 
milestones  we  have  achieved,  and  prevent  our  past 
disastrous mistakes and tragedies from ever recurring.
We should not allow self-centred unilateral policies 
to be pursued at the price of weakening multilateralism. 
We cannot and should not allow that highly alarming 
trend to continue unabated if we want our world to be 
governed by law and not the rule of power, and if we 
want to remain a true United Nations — nations united 
for peace and for saving succeeding generations from 
the  scourge  of  war.  We  should  therefore  address  the 
chronic  and  emerging  challenges  to  multilateralism 
comprehensively and seriously and create a reformed, 
strong, 
reinvigorated  multilateral 
system  founded  on  the  rule  of  law,  justice,  equality 
and accountability.
effective 
and 
Given that the United Nations, as the world’s most 
representative  international  organization,  represents 
the  highest  expression  of  multilateralism,  our  efforts 
to  achieve  a  strengthened  multilateral  system  should 
start from this Organization. That is how we can make 
the United Nations relevant to all people, which is the 
theme  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third 
session, during which many world leaders have called 
for support to multilateralism and for strengthening the 
16/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
role of the United Nations. That is what we need today 
in our highly interconnected and interdependent global 
village,  where  the  nature,  gravity,  complexity  and 
scope of challenges are unprecedented. That is what we 
need to do together, resolutely and responsibly. It is our 
common responsibility.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  emphasize  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  as 
initiator of the concept of a world against violence and 
extremism, stands ready to cooperate in fulfilling that 
responsibility. We are fully prepared to play an active 
part  in  promoting  multilateralism  as  the  appropriate 
framework for providing sustainable methods to resolve 
existing challenges.
Ms.  Lahmiri  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
delegation is pleased to be participating in the debate 
on a culture of peace, a universal value that my country 
is  fully  committed  to.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the 
annual  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/73/391)  on 
the  issue,  and  we  thank  the  various  facilitators  for 
the  draft  resolutions  on  it  that  we  will  be  adopting 
this morning.
and 
increasing 
intolerance, 
Because  we  live  in  a  world  that  is  constantly 
changing,  we  must  adapt  to  it  through  appropriate 
common responses. The growing number of ideological 
conflicts 
cultural 
isolationism,  violence  and  extremism  challenge  us  all 
and  must  push  us  to  take  effective  collective  action. 
Morocco considers diversity a source of wealth and is 
determined to implement innovative methods to ensure 
respect  for  cultural  and  faith-based  pluralism.  In  that 
regard,  we  have  undertaken  tangible  action  at  the 
national, regional and international levels. For example, 
at  the  national  level  we  have  undertaken  religious 
reform, including of our religious education system, and 
a review of the religious content of school textbooks.
We  believe  firmly  that  education  is  a  key  tool  in 
ensuring  that  the  culture  of  peace  can  grow  in  the 
minds of men and women. We promote an enlightened, 
moderate  religious  education  based  on  the  value  of 
tolerance.  with  a  view  to  preventing  radicalism,  we 
provide  an  education  that  promotes  peace.  In  that 
framework, Morocco is training imams, murshidins and 
murshidats  who  are  called  on  to  exercise  their  duties 
in  Morocco  and  abroad,  both  in  Africa  and  Europe. 
That  commitment  was  translated  into  reality  by  the 
establishment  in  2015  of  the  Mohammed  VI  Institute 
for the Training of Imams, Murshidins and Murshidats. 
I should point out in that regard that the commitment 
of  young  people  and  women  is  essential  to  fighting 
radicalization,  violence  and  extremism,  as  well  as  to 
promoting tolerance and respect for others.
The second point that we want to focus on concerns 
dialogue,  which  can  be  local,  national,  regional  or 
global. A culture of dialogue is essential to coexistence, 
and  vice  versa.  We  commend  the  tireless  efforts 
undertaken  by  the  various  stakeholders,  especially 
those of UNESCO and the Alliance of Civilizations.
Morocco  is  pleased  to  have  hosted  the  second 
iteration of the International Conference on Intercultural 
and Interfaith Dialogue, held from 10 to 12 September 
in  Fez,  on  the  theme  of  otherness.  It  provided  an 
opportunity  to  take  stock  of  actions  undertaken  to 
implement the call made in Fez underlining the urgent 
need  there  is  for  bringing  about  new  ways  to  ensure 
interaction  and  understanding  among  civilizations. 
During  the  Conference,  King  Mohammed  VI  called 
for  the  implementation  of  a  new  global  order  for 
peace structured around the principles of coexistence, 
acceptance, plurality and difference. In the wake of the 
historic adoption in Marrakech of the global compact 
for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration,  we  think  it 
important to stress the connection between the values 
of  peace,  tolerance  and  coexistence  and  the  issue  of 
migration.  On  that  issue,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco 
takes  a  proactive  and  humanistic  approach  based  on 
full respect for the rights of migrants.
Before  concluding,  we  want  to  reiterate  that  the 
international  community  should  redouble  its  efforts 
and continue to work for the preservation of peace and 
prosperity and to ensure good-neighbourly relations.
Finally,  on  13  September  2019  we  will  celebrate 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  and  we 
hope  that  occasion  will  enable  us  to  have  a  frank 
discussion,  present  our  tangible  commitments  and 
reflect constructively together on how we can work to 
advance peace, dialogue and mutual respect.
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  proceed 
to  consider  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.43,  A/73/L.48, 
A/73/L.52  and  A/73/L.55.  Before  giving  the  floor  for 
explanations of vote before the voting, I would like to 
remind  speakers  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
18-43387
17/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
Mr.  Bagwell  (United  States  of  America):  As  a 
multi-ethnic,  multicultural  and  multi-faith  nation,  the 
United  States  recognizes  the  importance  of  dialogue, 
understanding  and  cooperation  among  individuals  of 
different religious and cultural backgrounds. The United 
States  strongly  believes  in  the  value  of  programmes, 
including  those  of  the  United  Nations  system,  that 
encourage  a  culture  of  peace  and  promote  justice, 
democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
We  welcome  initiatives,  including  the  upcoming 
high-level forum, that concretely address the root causes 
of  conflict  by  promoting  efforts  to  counter  terrorism, 
reject violence and highlight the positive contribution 
of  young  people.  We  also  welcome  the  updating  of 
the  draft  resolutions  to  reflect  the  importance  for  a 
culture of peace of preventing violent extremism. The 
Secretary-General’s  plan  of  action  to  prevent  violent 
extremism lays out key recommendations for concerted 
preventive  action  by  the  international  community  in 
order  to  address  the  underlying  conditions  that  drive 
individuals to radicalize to violence. Young people play 
an important role in efforts to prevent violent extremism, 
as well as in the promotion of peace and security, and 
we  welcome  efforts  to  enhance  their  involvement  in 
preventing violent extremism and promoting a culture 
of peace.
However,  with  regard  to  an  international  day  of 
multilateralism and diplomacy for peace, we have stated 
on  many  occasions  that  we  worry  that  a  proliferation 
of  international  days  tends  to  dilute  whatever  value 
there  is  in  highlighting  or  commemorating  legitimate 
international  developments  or  urgent 
issues  of 
international  concern.  We  do  not  see  that  such  an 
international day will have any tangible impact on the 
furtherance  of  multilateral  objectives  or  the  cause  of 
peace and security. Certainly it is an irony not lost on 
us that draft resolution A/73/L.48 is being proposed by 
Venezuela, which is led by a brutal regime that flagrantly 
flouts  its  international  human  rights  obligations  and 
commitments.  For  those  reasons,  we  are  calling  for 
a  vote,  and  we  will  vote  against  the  draft  resolution 
entitled  “International  Day  of  Multilateralism  and 
Diplomacy for Peace”.
The United States has always been a strong supporter 
of  effective  multilateral  institutions.  However,  many 
multilateral  organizations  and  agreements  are  failing 
the very Member States that they were created to serve 
effectively, and multilateralism should not be viewed as 
an end unto itself.
As United States Secretary of State Pompeo recently 
underscored in Brussels, we are supporting institutions 
that  we  believe  can  be  improved  and  that  work  in 
American interests and in those of all Member States, 
in the service of our shared values. We will continue to 
work with our friends and allies towards realizing the 
promise of effective multilateral institutions that serve 
our citizens and our values. To quote George Marshall’s 
address to the General Assembly in Paris in 1948:
“International organizations cannot take the place 
of  national  and  personal  effort,  or  of  local  and 
individual imagination. International action cannot 
replace self-help”.
Mr. Grigoryan (Armenia): I would like to present the 
position of the delegation of Armenia on draft resolution 
A/73/L.55,  entitled  “Promotion  of  interreligious  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation 
for peace”. At the outset, my delegation would like to 
express  its  appreciation  to  the  co-facilitators  for  their 
efforts in bringing the draft resolution to a successful 
outcome, as well as for their constructive approach in 
accommodating  some  of  Armenia’s  proposals  during 
the negotiations.
the  draft  resolution’s 
As a staunch advocate of the continuing promotion 
of  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue,  we  agree 
with the purposes of the draft resolution. Our objection 
to 
twenty-fifth  preambular 
paragraph,  which  refers  to  an  event  named  the  World 
Forum  on  Intercultural  Dialogue  as  a  key  global 
platform  for  promoting 
is 
based  on  the  fact  that  a  particular  Member  State  has 
developed a tradition of abusing various international 
forums,  especially  those  organized  in  its  country, 
thereby  distorting  the  principles  of  international  law 
and the basic elements of peaceful conflict resolution 
while disseminating hate speech at the State level.
intercultural  dialogue, 
In that regard, we regret that the event referred to 
in the draft resolution, which was aimed at promoting 
multilateralism  and 
intercultural  dialogue,  was 
misused by the country that hosted it to manipulate an 
international gathering aand turn it into an instrument 
of  propaganda.  We  firmly  believe  that  in  organizing 
international  events  on  multilateralism,  intercultural 
dialogue and the promotion of peace, due regard should 
also  be  given  to  the  record  of  the  host  country  in 
terms  of  adherence  to  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian law, as well as to the protection of cultural 
heritage of historical and religious significance.
18/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of position before the adoption 
of the draft resolution.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.43,  entitled  “Follow-up 
the 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture 
of Peace”.
to 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that since the submission of draft resolution 
A/73/L.43, and in addition to those delegations listed in 
the document, the following countries have also become 
sponsors:  Albania,  Algeria,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia,  Azerbaijan,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Bosnia and 
Herzegovina,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burundi, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Djibouti, 
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, the Gambia, 
Greece,  Guinea,  Hungary,  India,  Indonesia,  Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Libya,  Lithuania,  Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Malawi, 
Maldives,  Malta,  Mexico,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Morocco,  the  Niger,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau, 
Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  the  Philippines,  Poland, 
the  Republic  of  Korea,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Singapore,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  Sri  Lanka,  the  Sudan,  Suriname,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  Viet  Nam  and  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/73/L.43?
resolution  A/73/L.43  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/126).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.48, entitled 
“International  Day  of  Multilateralism  and  Diplomacy 
for Peace”.
adopted 
A/73/PV.51
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that since the submission of draft resolution 
A/73/L.48,  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in the document, the following countries have become 
sponsors: Canada, China, El Salvador, Norway, Palau 
and the Russian Federation.
like 
The  Acting  President:  A  recorded  vote  has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Argentina, 
Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State 
of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Central  African 
Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Congo, 
Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
Denmark,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Finland, 
France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guinea, 
Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal, 
Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka, 
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Togo, Turkey, Tuvalu, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
18-43387
19/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel, United States of America
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.48  was  adopted  by  144 
votes to 2 (resolution 73/127).
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Nicaragua 
informed the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.]
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.52, entitled 
“Enlightenment and religious tolerance”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
to 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
announce that, since the submission of the document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution  A/73/L.52:  Algeria,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus, Benin, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, 
Djibouti,  Egypt,  Ghana,  Iraq,  Japan,  Lebanon,  Libya, 
the  Marshall  Islands,  Morocco,  Myanmar,  the  Niger, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  the  Philippines,  Qatar,  the  Republic 
of  Korea,  the  Russian  Federation,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Singapore,  Sri  Lanka,  the 
Sudan,  Suriname,  Thailand,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan, Uganda and the United Arab Emirates.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/73/L.52?
resolution  A/73/L.52  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/128).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.55, entitled 
“Promotion of interreligious and intercultural dialogue, 
understanding and cooperation for peace ”.
adopted 
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that, since the submission of the document, 
the  following  countries  have  become  sponsors  of 
resolution  A/73/L.55:  Austria,  Bangladesh, 
draft 
like 
Benin,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Chad,  Djibouti,  Ecuador, 
Eritrea, Guinea, Guatemala, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, 
Japan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Malaysia,  Morocco,  Myanmar, 
the  Niger,  Oman,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru, 
Poland,  Samoa,  Singapore,  Slovenia, 
the  Sudan, 
Suriname, Timor-Leste, Togo, Turkey, Uzbekistan and 
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly wishes to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.55?
adopted 
resolution  A/73/L.55  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/129).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
those wishing to speak in explanation of vote or position 
on the resolutions just adopted, I would like to remind 
delegations that explanations are limited to 10 minutes 
and should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Charwath  (Austria):  I  have  the  honour  of 
speaking on behalf of the European Union (EU). The 
candidate  countries  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Montenegro  and  Albania,  the  country 
of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and 
potential  candidate  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  as  well 
as  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  align  themselves  with 
this statement.
I would first like to explain our vote on resolution 
73/127, on the International Day of Multilateralism and 
Diplomacy for Peace. At a time when the rules-based 
international  order  is  being  increasingly  challenged, 
we attach great importance to reiterating our collective 
support for multilateralism, building on the strong call 
to promote the multilateral system made by our leaders 
at the general debate in September.
require 
complex, 
articulated 
Europe’s commitment to multilateralism, with the 
United Nations at its core, is based on our values and 
beliefs, but it is also an act of realism. Today’s complex 
threats 
responses. 
Only  together  can  we  have  a  real  impact  in  ensuring 
sustainable  development,  peace  and  security  and  the 
universal  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights. 
Only together can we achieve education for all, gender 
equality and our commitment to leaving no one behind.
The  European  Union  is  a  staunch  supporter  of 
dialogue and cooperation. That is why we will continue 
to defend multilateral diplomacy and its achievements, 
from the Iran nuclear deal to the Paris Agreement on 
20/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
Climate  Change,  and  to  support  the  essential  work 
of  all  United  Nations  programmes  and  agencies. 
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  facilitators  to  try  to 
accommodate  the  EU’s  concerns  during  negotiations 
on the draft resolution, during which the EU expressed 
its  view  that  as  a  general  principle  it  is  not  in  favour 
of  the  multiplication  of  international  days.  The  most 
effective  way  to  promote  multilateralism  lies  in  our 
commitments and actions.
In addition, we continue to believe that the singling 
out of one international grouping in a resolution goes 
against the principle of multilateralism. We note that the 
political declaration of the Movement of Non-Aligned 
Countries, as referred to in the resolution, also contains 
elements  that  are  not  conducive  to  multilateralism. 
However,  in  the  spirit  of  dialogue  and  cooperation  to 
which  we  just  referred,  and  taking  into  account  the 
overarching theme of the resolution, we decided to vote 
in favour of it. We remain ready to engage constructively 
with all partners in pursuing a consensus approach in 
support of multilateralism.
I  would  now  like  to  turn  to  resolution  73/128,  on 
enlightenment  and  religious  tolerance.  The  European 
Union was founded on the values of non-discrimination, 
tolerance  and  respect  for  human  rights,  including 
freedom  of  expression  and  freedom  of 
thought, 
conscience  and 
religion  or  belief.  Furthermore, 
promoting  and  protecting  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief  as  a  universal  human  right,  and  eliminating 
discrimination  on  the  basis  of  religion  or  belief,  are 
key  priorities  of  the  European  Union’s  human  rights 
policy. For those reasons, the EU has for a number of 
years been the main sponsor of the annual resolution on 
freedom of religion or belief.
The EU has always acknowledged the great value 
and  crucial  role  of  education  in  promoting  mutual 
understanding, 
tolerance,  non-discrimination  and 
respect  in  all  matters  relating  to  freedom  of  religion 
or belief, which is highlighted both in this year’s draft 
resolution  on  freedom  of  religion  or  belief  (A/73/589/
Add.2)  and  in  our  guidelines  on  the  promotion  and 
protection of freedom of religion or belief.
In that regard, we welcome the focus of resolution 
73/128  on  education  as  a  tool  for  promoting  religious 
tolerance, and we continue to support efforts by States 
to encourage a wider knowledge in society at large of 
the diversity of religions and beliefs and of the history, 
traditions,  languages  and  cultures  of  the  various 
religious  minorities  existing  within  their  jurisdiction. 
We  also  appreciated 
the  open  and  collaborative 
negotiation process on the draft text, which we believe 
is  positively  reflected  in  resolution  73/128,  and  we 
would like to thank the delegation of Uzbekistan for its 
open and constructive approach. However, the EU does 
not support the proliferation of resolutions as a general 
principle and was not therefore in a position to sponsor 
the  resolution,  whose  theme  is  already  covered  at 
length in existing resolutions. Nevertheless, we remain 
strongly  committed  to  promoting  efforts  to  combat 
religious  intolerance,  and  for  that  reason  the  States 
members of the European Union joined the consensus 
on resolution 73/128.
to 
interreligious  and 
Mr.  Bagwell  (United  States  of  America):  With 
the  adoption  of  resolution  73/129,  on 
regard 
the  promotion  of 
intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace, 
and resolution 73/128, on enlightenment and religious 
tolerance, the United States firmly supports efforts to 
promote  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue  and 
cooperation.  However,  while  we  joined  the  consensus 
on  those  resolutions,  we  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to clarify some important points.
The  United  States  strongly  supports  freedom 
of  expression  and  freedom  of  religion  or  belief.  We 
oppose  any  attempts  to  unduly  limit  the  exercise  of 
those  fundamental  freedoms,  and  therefore  dissociate 
ourselves  from  the  new  text  negotiated  in  this  year’s 
resolutions  that  suggests  that  the  protections  for 
freedom  of  expression  and  freedom  of  religion  or 
belief are at odds with each other. We strongly believe 
that  protecting  freedom  of  religion  and  freedom  of 
expression promotes mutual respect and pluralism and 
is essential to human dignity and a robust civil society. 
We firmly believe that all people should be free to choose 
and practice their faith, based on the persuasion of the 
mind and heart. Freedom of religion plays an important 
societal  role  and  is  crucial  to  the  creation  of  tolerant 
and respectful societies in which negative stereotypes 
carry  little  meaning.  Rather  than  seeking  restrictions 
on self-expression in order to deal with intolerance, the 
United States advocates robust protections for speech, 
as well as the enforcement of appropriate legal regimes 
dealing with discriminatory acts and hate crimes.
The  United  States  strongly  believes  in  working 
together  to  build  a  more  secure  and  peaceful  world 
through  the  promotion  of  justice,  democracy,  human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. With regard to calls 
18-43387
21/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
the 
for moderation, we are concerned about the possibility 
that 
implementation  of  moderation-focused 
programmes  and  policies  could  be  subject  to  abuse. 
We  are  particularly  concerned  that  such  programmes 
and  policies  could  undermine  people’s  enjoyment  of 
freedom  of  expression  and  thought,  conscience  and 
religion or belief.
With regard to the references in resolution 73/128 to 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we have 
addressed our concerns regarding such references in a 
general explanation of position delivered in the Second 
Committee  on  8  November  and  in  an  explanation  of 
position  in  the  General  Assembly  (see  A/73/PV.44) 
regarding resolution 73/24, entitled “Sport as an enabler 
of  sustainable  development”,  which  was  adopted  on 
3 December under agenda item 12.
Mr.  Margaryan  (Armenia):  I  would  like  to 
present  our  position  on  resolution  73/127,  entitled 
“International  Day  of  Multilateralism  and  Diplomacy 
for Peace”. Armenia would like to reiterate its support 
and  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  an  effective 
instrument for addressing the complex issues relating 
to  the  challenges  that  the  world  is  facing  today.  We 
the 
recognize 
importance  of  multilateralism  and 
diplomacy 
in  advancing  sustainable  development, 
peace  and  security  and  human  rights.  Restoring  our 
humanity,  sustaining  peace  and  respecting  human 
dignity are important priorities that can be achieved only 
through concerted efforts and a coordinated response. 
We  should  all  collectively  do  more  to  help  mitigate 
situations involving crises in which basic human rights, 
including the right to life, are increasingly challenged, 
and that require a stronger emphasis on the capacity of 
multilateral institutions to deliver an adequate response.
The date of 24 April, designated by the Movement 
of  Non-Aligned  Countries  to  mark  the  International 
Day  of  Multilateralism  and  Diplomacy  for  Peace,  has 
crucial  significance  for  Armenia  and  the  Armenian 
people, as it holds important meaning and touches on 
special  sensitivities  for  all  Armenians.  It  is  the  day 
when  the  Armenian  people  and  their  friends  around 
the  world  pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the  victims 
of  the  Armenian  genocide.  The  Armenian  genocide 
is a stark case in point in the argument for promoting 
and  fostering  prevention  and  upholding  collective 
faith in the fundamental human rights and the dignity 
and  the  worth  of  the  human  person.  It  is  a  reminder 
that  impunity  fosters  the  recurrence  of  crime.  It 
also  illustrates  what  happened  100  years  ago  in  the 
absence of effective multilateral institutions, when the 
international community failed to provide any adequate 
response or international protection.
Today, as a State, Armenia has a duty to work within 
multilateral cooperative frameworks to prevent future 
atrocities. Armenia is resolved to continue to contribute 
to multilateral efforts to advance prevention, including 
the  prevention  of  identity-based  discrimination,  mass 
atrocities  and  the  crime  of  genocide,  as  an  important 
function  of  the  United  Nations.  The  adoption  in  2015 
of  resolution  69/323,  designating  9  December  as  the 
International  Day  of  Commemoration  and  Dignity 
of  the  Victims  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  and  of  the 
Prevention of This Crime, was a powerful manifestation 
of responsible multilateralism. And this year marks the 
seventieth anniversary of Convention on the Prevention 
and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide  and  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which  is  yet 
another milestone in our reaffirmation of our collective 
determination  to  fight  impunity  and  prevent  any 
recurrence of human suffering.
We  hope  that  the  designation  of  the  International 
Day  of  Multilateralism  and  Diplomacy  for  Peace  will 
become an important contribution to enhancing global 
cooperation for peace, development and human rights 
at the national and global levels.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote or position.
The  representative  of  Azerbaijan  has  asked  to 
speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would like to 
remind members that statements in exercise of the right 
of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first statement 
and to five minutes for the second, and should be made 
by delegations from their seats.
the  delegation  of  Armenia  at 
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  There  is  nothing 
surprising  in  the  inadequate  and  irrelevant  comments 
made  by 
today’s 
plenary  meeting.  The  fact  is  that  the  objectives  of  a 
culture  of  peace  are  alien  to  Armenia.  Otherwise, 
it  would  not  have  become  a  uniquely  mono-ethnic 
State as a result of its consistent policies of exclusion, 
discrimination  and  incompatibility  on  ethnic  and 
religious grounds.
In  obstructing  efforts  aimed  at  the  promotion 
of 
intercultural  and 
interreligious  dialogue  and 
challenging  the  various  global  initiatives  to  that 
end,  solely  because  of  its  relations  with  Azerbaijan, 
22/24 
18-43387
12/12/2018 
A/73/PV.51
Armenia  has  demonstrated  that  the  prospects  of  its 
good-faith engagement in ongoing efforts to resolve our 
conflict as soon as possible are elusive. The Armenian 
representative’s  comments  on  human  rights  and  so-
called  hate  propaganda  are  beneath  criticism.  The 
relevant United Nations bodies and other international 
organizations  have  more  than  once  expressed  serious 
concern  about  the  spirit  of  intolerance  prevailing 
in  Armenia.  I  am  confident  that  the  international 
community would be more interested in hearing from 
the delegation of Armenia about the real problems that 
the  country  and  its  people  are  facing  in  the  political, 
economic,  social  and  humanitarian  spheres  than  its 
comments on human rights and democracy elsewhere.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded its consideration of agenda item 15.
Agenda item 116 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(a) Election of members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/608)
The  Acting  President:  Pursuant 
to  General 
Assembly  decision  42/450,  of  17  December  1987,  and 
upon  their  nomination  by  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  the  Assembly  elects  the  members  of  the 
Committee for Programme and Coordination.
The  Assembly  has  before  it  document  A/73/608, 
which contains the nominations by the Economic and 
Social Council to fill the vacancies in the Committee 
that  will  occur  as  a  result  of  the  expiration,  on 
31 December 2018, of the terms of office of Argentina, 
France,  Peru,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  United 
Republic of Tanzania and Zimbabwe.
Those States are eligible for immediate re-election. 
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that  after  1  January 
2019, the following States will remain members of the 
Committee:  Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Chile, China, 
Cuba, Egypt, Eritrea, Germany, Haiti, India, the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  Japan,  Pakistan,  Portugal,  the 
Republic of Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Senegal, 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland  and  the  United  States  of  America.  Those  26 
States will therefore not be eligible in this election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
following States have been nominated by the Economic 
and  Social  Council:  Angola  and  Ethiopia  for  the  two 
seats for the African States; the Russian Federation for 
the one seat for the Eastern European States; Argentina 
for  one  of  the  two  seats  for  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States; and France for one of the two seats 
for the Western European and other States.
In accordance with rule 92 of the rules of procedure, 
all elections should be held by secret ballot. However, 
I should like to recall paragraph 16 of decision 34/401, 
whereby the practice of dispensing with the secret ballot 
for elections to subsidiary organs when the number of 
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be 
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation 
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  number  of  States 
nominated from among the African States, the Eastern 
European  States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States  and  the  Western  European  and  other  States  is 
equal to or lower than the number of seats to be filled 
in each of those groups.
May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes to 
declare  those  States  nominated  by  the  Economic  and 
Social Council — Angola, Argentina, Ethiopia, France 
and  the  Russian  Federation  —  elected  as  members  of 
the Committee for Programme and Coordination for a 
three-year term beginning on 1 January 2019?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: I congratulate the States that 
have just been elected members of the Committee for 
Programme and Coordination. Members are reminded 
that two vacancies remain for a term beginning on the 
date of election by the General Assembly: one member 
from the Western European and other States for a term 
expiring on 31 December 2018, and one member from 
the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  for  a  term 
expiring on 31 December 2020.
Members  are  also  reminded  that  the  Economic 
and Social Council postponed the nominations of one 
member from the Latin American and Caribbean States 
and one member from the Western European and other 
18-43387
23/24
A/73/PV.51 
12/12/2018
States  for  a  three-year  term  beginning  on  1  January 
2019 and expiring on 31 December 2021, respectively. 
The General Assembly will be in a position to act on 
those vacancies upon nomination by the Economic and 
Social Council.
We  have 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 116.
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(e) Appointment of members of the Committee on 
Conferences
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/107)
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
before it a note by the Secretary-General, contained in 
document A/73/107. As indicated in that document, as 
the  terms  of  office  of  the  representatives  of  Ecuador, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Guyana,  Hungary, 
the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran and Liberia will expire on 31 December 
2018,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  appoint  seven  members  to  fill 
the resulting vacancies. Those members will serve for 
a period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2019. 
Consequently,  after  consultations  with  the  Chairs  of 
the Groups of the African States, the Eastern European 
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and 
the  Western  European  and  other  States,  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  has  appointed  Ecuador, 
Germany, Ghana, Guyana, Senegal and Ukraine for a 
period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2019.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of 
these appointments?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  remind 
members that one seat from the Asia-Pacific States for 
a period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2019, 
still  remains  to  be  filled.  I  urge  the  Group  to  submit 
their candidate as soon as possible.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (e)  of  agenda 
item 117.
The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.
24/24 
18-43387
