United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
36th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 20 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 124
Question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and other matters related to the Security Council
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related  to  the  Security  Council  has  been  addressed 
by  the  General  Assembly  for  more  than  two  decades. 
Nevertheless, despite our efforts, we have yet to reach 
agreement on the reform of that body, which is essential 
to  the  United  Nations  and  the  multilateral  system.  In 
accordance with the mandate that I have been given, I 
would like to announce the names of the co-Chairs of 
the intergovernmental negotiations on this topic for this 
session.  I  have  reconfirmed  Ambassador  Lana  Zaki 
Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  who  held  the  post  in  the  previous 
session.  I  have  also  appointed  Ambassador  Christian 
Braun, Permanent Representative of Luxembourg, as a 
new co-Chair. I trust that Member States will provide 
their full cooperation to assist them in the fulfilment of 
their functions. I would like to take this opportunity to 
express my gratitude for the work of those who fulfilled 
the roles in the previous session, Ambassador Lana Zaki 
Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates, whom I have 
already mentioned, and Ambassador Kaha Imnadze of 
Georgia. I deeply appreciate their efforts and work.
Member States are convinced of the need to reform 
the Security Council. In fact, during September’s general 
debate, at least 80 world leaders emphasized that point. 
In  order  to  achieve  tangible  results  in  that  process, 
political will is undoubtedly required. My position on 
the  subject  has  been  very  clear:  I  have  reiterated  on 
several occasions that the Security Council must adapt 
to the new political realities. The reform of the Council 
is important, not only for Member States but also for the 
entire United Nations system. A Council with greater 
representativeness, efficiency and transparency would 
undoubtedly increase the legitimacy of its decisions and 
speed  up  their  implementation.  In  addition,  it  would 
strengthen  multilateralism  and  contribute  to  efforts 
to achieve a more democratic and effective system of 
global governance.
Upon assuming my post as President of the General 
Assembly, I committed my full support to the reform 
process of the Security Council, in tune with the urgency 
set by Member States. I would like to stress that that 
process  is  in  the  hands  of  Member  States.  Given  that 
it is a process driven by Member States, I can assure 
the Assembly that my role will be to support them in 
that challenge. Given the complexity of the issue, it is 
vital to call for dialogue at all times, in earnest, with 
respect  and  in  a  spirit  of  openness.  Dialogue  always 
offers an opportunity — a gateway to reach agreement. 
I encourage Member States to explore more pragmatic 
approaches  and  appropriate  working  methods 
to 
advance the reform of the Council, particularly in those 
areas in which there are still major differences.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-39080 (E)
*1839080*

A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
The 
reform 
issue  of  Security  Council 
is 
undoubtedly  a  complex  challenge,  closely  linked  to 
one  of  the  main  pillars  of  our  Organization  —  that 
of  peace  and  security.  It  is  perhaps  one  of  the  issues 
that  requires  our  best  diplomatic  skills.  The  calls  for 
greater transparency, accountability and efficiency in 
the actions of the Security Council are a reality. I am 
confident that Member States will continue to devote 
their  best  efforts  to  finding  appropriate  responses 
to  those  challenges.  I  reiterate  my  commitment  to 
supporting them in that quest in an impartial, objective 
and  open  manner,  and  thereby  to  advance  our  shared 
aspirations  to  reform  and  optimize  the  quality  and 
efficiency of the Security Council.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 
the  honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of Arab States on agenda item 124 concerning 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council.
At the outset, I would like to assure you, Madam 
President,  of  the  support  of  the  Arab  Group  for  your 
efforts in managing the work of the General Assembly 
during the current session, particularly with regard to 
the  item  under  discussion  today,  which  is  of  special 
importance  for  all  Member  States,  particularly  the 
Arab Group. I would also like to thank the Permanent 
Representative  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
Ambassador  Lana  Nusseibeh,  and  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Georgia,  Ambassador  Kaha 
Imnadze, for their appreciated efforts as co-Chairs of 
the negotiations during the previous session.
At a time when the United Nations is undergoing 
numerous  reform  processes  that  are  intended  to 
strengthen its role and enable it to address the growing 
challenges faced by the international community today, 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  its  equitable 
representation constitute one of the fundamental pillars 
for  the  overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  That  is 
why we are more determined to step up efforts towards 
the genuine and comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council  —  the  body  responsible  for  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  as  enshrined  in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  in  order  for 
it  to  be  more  capable  and  effective  in  dealing  with 
and  overcoming  those  complex  challenges  in  a  more 
transparent, neutral and credible way.
After 
two  decades  of  negotiations  aimed  at 
expanding  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  improving  its  working  methods,  during  which 
there  have  been  several  initiatives  and  stances  taken 
by numerous States and groups of States, including the 
Arab Group, it is now important that we move forward 
with the process of Security Council reform. That can 
be achieved through consensus-based solutions that are 
supported  with  broad  acceptance  by  Member  States. 
However,  we  do  not  necessarily  have  to  act  hastily 
in setting a time frame for the process, as that would 
undermine a comprehensive, genuine and real reform.
In  that  regard,  the  Arab  Group  reiterates  that  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  within  the  framework 
of  the  General  Assembly  represent  the  only  way  to 
reach  an  agreement  on  the  expansion  and  reform  of 
the  Security  Council,  in  line  with  General  Assembly 
decision 62/557, which was adopted by consensus and 
established the practical basis for the negotiations. The 
Arab  Group  also  underscores  that  all  the  five  main 
topics  of  the  reform  negotiations  are  interconnected 
and share common elements, meaning that they should 
be dealt with in a way that upholds that interconnection 
in  order  to  achieve  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
The Arab Group reaffirms its stance on maintaining 
the  coherence  of  the  general  membership  without 
undermining  the  credibility  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, which could result from efforts to impose 
steps  that  do  not  enjoy  the  unanimous  support  of 
Member States. We face several challenges with regard 
to  Security  Council  reform,  particularly  the  veto 
power  and  the  arbitrary  use  of  that  power  by  certain 
permanent members of the Security Council. In many 
cases, that arbitrary use has harmed the credibility of 
the  decision-making  process  within  the  Council,  and 
has  sometimes  made  the  Council  unable  to  shoulder 
its  responsibility  to  take  the  necessary  measures  to 
maintain  international  peace  and  security.  The  veto 
power  of  the  permanent  members  of  the  Council  has 
been  used  in  recent  years  to  protect  their  national 
interests  or  those  of  their  allies.  In  that  regard,  I 
regret  to  note  that  the  majority  of  cases  in  which  the 
veto power was used, particularly over the past three 
decades, concerned issues relating to the Arab region.
The  overall  and  major  goal  of  Security  Council 
reform  and  the  expansion  of  its  membership  are  to 
ensure  that  all  geographical  and  regional  groups 
are  fairly  and  proportionately  represented  within 
2/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
an  expanded  Security  Council.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
important  to  recall  that  the  Arab  Group  represents 
nearly  350  million  people  from  22  countries,  which 
constitutes  around  12  per  cent  of  the  United  Nations 
membership.  In  addition,  much  of 
the  Security 
Council’s  work  and  many  of  the  items  on  its  agenda 
concern  the  Arab  region.  The  Arab  Group  should 
therefore be fairly and equitably represented within an 
expanded Security Council, so that we can express and 
convey the Arab perspective in the Council and thereby 
ensure the legitimacy and credibility of its resolutions.
Moreover,  the  Arab  Group  calls  for  full-fledged 
permanent  Arab  representation  in  the  permanent 
membership category in an overall expanded Council. 
Fair  and  equitable  geographical  representation  also 
requires  Arab  representation  in  the  non-permanent 
membership category in the expanded Council.
In that regard, I wish to underscore the importance 
of the requirement that any documents published in the 
context  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  should 
reflect the accurate stances of all States and groups of 
States, including that of the Arab Group, given that the 
positions taken by the various countries should form the 
basis of negotiations on the issue, in line with decision 
62/557, so as to uphold the principle of Member States’ 
ownership of the intergovernmental negotiations.
It is now crucial that we improve and develop the 
working methods and procedures of the Security Council 
in order to make it more effective and transparent. We 
also need to reach agreement on the Security Council’s 
standing  rules  of  procedure,  which  should  replace 
the  provisional  rules  of  procedure  that  have  been  in 
place for decades. There is also a need to increase the 
number  of  plenary  meetings  of  the  Security  Council 
that  are  open  to  all  Members,  and  to  let  the  relevant 
States  participate  in  the  decision-making  process  on 
issues being discussed that are related to them. Those 
meetings  would  provide  non-members  of  the  Council 
with more concrete opportunities to participate in the 
Council’s debates.
Furthermore,  the  number  of  closed  meetings  and 
informal consultations must be reduced to a minimum, 
with such meetings being the exception rather than the 
rule. The Council’s resolutions and statements should 
be  considered  with  the  relevant  States,  which  should 
be  allowed  to  participate  in  the  discussion  of  issues 
pertaining  to  them,  in  accordance  with  Article  31  of 
the Charter of the United Nations.
The  Arab  Group  calls  on  subsidiary  bodies  and 
committees of the Security Council to provide Members 
of the United Nations with more information regarding 
the work of those bodies. It emphasizes that the Security 
Council must adhere strictly to its mandate, as defined 
by the Charter.
The  Arab  Group  welcomes  the  progress  made 
during  the  previous  sessions  with  regard  to  defining 
common elements based on the views and proposals of 
States, as well as areas of divergence that require further 
discussion. The efforts made so far reflect the numerous 
common  elements  among  the  various  positions  held 
by States and groups of States with regard to the five 
agreed  categories  of  reform.  At  the  same  time,  those 
efforts  show  that  there  are  a  number  of  fundamental 
divergences  and  different  points  of  view.  Any  future 
progress  will  therefore  require  further  debate,  in  a 
positive  spirit,  to  bring  those  various  perspectives 
closer together, in an attempt to find common ground 
for a solution that enjoys the support of the majority of 
Member States and achieve the desired comprehensive 
and genuine reform of the Security Council.
In conclusion, the Arab Group is firmly determined 
to continue participating constructively in the upcoming 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  stand  ready  and 
willing to consult with all other negotiating groups in 
order to reach a comprehensive and genuine reform of 
the Security Council, within a transparent framework 
and in a constructive spirit.
Mr.  Kai-Kai  (Sierra  Leone):  I  have  the  honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States.
We  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for  convening 
today’s  debate  on  agenda  item  124,  “Question  of 
equitable  representation  on  and 
the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related to the Security Council”. We take note of your 
opening remarks and wish to reiterate our commitment 
to achieving progress on this very important issue.
increase 
in 
Let me take this opportunity to congratulate you, 
Madam, once again on your election as President of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We look 
forward to working with you and all Member States in 
achieving the widest possible consensus on the reform 
of the Security Council. We would also like to thank the 
former co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations, 
Ambassadors Kaha Imnadze and Lana Zaki Nusseibeh, 
Permanent Representatives of Georgia and the United 
18-39080
3/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
Arab  Emirates,  respectively,  for  their  stewardship  of 
the  process  during  the  seventy-second  session.  We 
look  forward  to  working  with  the  new  co-Chairs, 
who were named this morning — Ambassadors Lana 
Zaki  Nusseibeh  and  Christian  Braun  —  to  steer  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process at this seventy-
third session.
Africa  remains  convinced  of  the  need  for  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
which  will  significantly  contribute 
to  upholding 
the  principles,  objectives  and  ideals  of  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  for  a  fairer  world  based  on 
universalism,  equity  and  regional  balance.  To  that 
end,  we  remain  true  and  faithful  to  decision  62/557 
and  other  relevant  General  Assembly  decisions  for 
a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  on 
all  five  clusters  of  issues,  taking  into  account  their 
interconnectedness. We therefore reject any piecemeal 
or selective approach that contradicts and violates the 
spirit of comprehensive reform.
The  President  of  Sierra  Leone,  Mr.  Julius  Maada 
Bio, in his capacity as Coordinator of the African Union 
Committee of Ten Heads of State and Government on 
the reform of the United Nations, reiterated, during the 
high-level  general  debate  in  September,  the  concerns 
of  Africa  over  the  continuous  failure  of  the  General 
Assembly to adopt measures that would enable Africa 
to take its rightful place in the Security Council. Let 
me echo the Coordinator’s statement:
“The Assembly made a historic pledge during 
the  2005  World  Summit  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations with a view to enhancing its authority and 
effectiveness,  as  well  as  its  capacity  to  address 
effectively,  and  in  accordance  with  the  purposes 
and principles of the Charter, the full range of the 
challenges  of  our  time.  A  number  of  gains  have 
been  made,  including  the  establishment  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the Human Rights 
Council...  Those  are  laudable  gains,  but...  unless 
and  until  we  are  able  to  contend  with  the  reform 
of the Security Council, the most critical question 
of the day, the Organization will remain seemingly 
constituted  on  undemocratic  and  discriminatory 
principles.” (A/73/PV.10, pp. 23—24)
The need to reform the Security Council is therefore 
more urgent and imperative than ever. Over the years, 
we  have  made  some  progress  through  heightened 
engagement in the intergovernmental negotiations. At 
the same meeting, our President also said:
“We  should  now  endeavour  to  demonstrate  the 
political will to redress, in particular, the historical 
injustice done to the African continent.
“The present geopolitical realities compel us to 
carry out a comprehensive reform of the Security 
Council...  Africa  is  the  only  continent  without 
representation  in  the  permanent  category  of  the 
Security Council. Africa is also underrepresented 
in  the  non-permanent  category.  Africa’s  demand 
for  two  permanent  seats  with  all  the  rights  and 
prerogatives  of  current  members,  including  the 
right of veto, and for two additional non-permanent 
seats is a matter of common justice and the right 
to have an equal say in decision-making on issues 
that  affect  the  African  region.  It  is  time  that  we 
addressed  without  any  further  delay  the  long-
standing  injustice  and  imbalance  that  is  being 
perpetuated  in  the  present  configuration  of  the 
Security Council.” (ibid.)
The urgent need for the comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council  cannot  be  overemphasized.  It  is 
important to keep in mind that 1.2 billion of the world’s 
population of 7.5 billion people are African and that they 
continue  to  contribute  their  fair  share  to  maintaining 
world  peace  and  security.  About  70  per  cent  of  the 
decisions  made  at  the  Security  Council  ultimately 
affect  those  1.2  billion  Africans.  Almost  one-fifth  of 
the  world’s  population  is  therefore  asking  why  it  is 
excluded from the permanent category of the Security 
Council.  In  addition,  most  of  the  issues  discussed  in 
the Security Council are related to Africa. In view of 
that, the continent must be in a position to effectively 
participate in the decision-making processes of all the 
organs of the United Nations.
The Common African Position on Security Council 
reform, as articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the Sirte Declaration, is well known to the Assembly. 
However,  for  the  purposes  of  clarity  and  precision, 
let  me  reiterate  that  Africa  demands  no  less  than 
two  permanent  seats,  with  all  the  prerogatives  and 
privileges  of  permanent  membership,  including  the 
right of veto, and five non-permanent seats. Although 
Africa is opposed in principle to the veto, it is of the 
view  that,  for  as  long  as  it  exists  and  as  a  matter  of 
common  justice,  it  should  be  made  available  to  all 
permanent members of the Security Council.
4/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
Our call for the immediate redress of the African 
demand for the equitable representation of Africa in the 
Security Council continues to garner broad support from 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  In  particular, 
the  previous  co-Chairs  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  recorded  in  the  outcome  of  the  seventy-
second session that Member States acknowledged the 
legitimate aspirations of African countries to play their 
rightful role on the global stage.
the 
That development further reinforces the credibility 
and  viability  of  the  Common  African  Position  on  the 
reform of the Security Council. It not only builds on the 
broad support that our position continues to garner but 
also signifies that the Common African Position remains 
unchallenged  in  its  claim  to  redress  the  historical 
injustice  resulting  from  Africa  not  being  represented 
in the permanent category and being underrepresented 
in 
the  Security 
Council. That is a welcome development on which we 
will  continue  to  build  until  we  achieve  a  reform  that 
recognizes  Africa  and  gives  the  continent  its  rightful 
place in global governance at the United Nations.
the  non-permanent  category  of 
Notwithstanding  those  gains,  divergences  in  the 
various positions of Member States and interest groups 
on  the  models  of  reform,  as  well  as  differences  over 
procedural  matters,  continue  to  challenge  the  overall 
progress  on  the  effort  to  build  consensus  on  all  five 
clusters  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  The 
co-Chairs’  paper,  entitled  “Revised  elements  of 
commonality  and  issues  for  further  consideration”, 
which  was  circulated  on  14  June  by  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session, 
represented  a  welcome  step  in  identifying  areas  of 
commonality  around  which  Member  States  can  unite 
for  consensus-building.  The  paper  did  not,  however, 
adequately and accurately reflect the Common African 
Position.  The  adoption  of  a  consensus  roll-over 
decision  by  the  General  Assembly  on  29  June,  which 
called, inter alia, for the immediate continuation of the 
intergovernmental negotiations in informal plenary at 
the seventy-third session of the General Assembly, was 
another significant manifestation of the acceptance of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  as  the  appropriate 
forum  to  continue  to  discuss  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council.
In fulfilment of the forthright vision of our leaders 
at the 2005 World Summit, we look forward to working 
with  all  Member  States  in  an  open,  transparent  and 
inclusive  Member-driven  process,  with  a  view  to 
to  keep 
We  have  a  unique  opportunity 
achieving  the  progress  that  will  lead  to  the  ultimate 
realization of the goal of making the Security Council 
more broadly representative, democratic, effective and 
transparent,  thereby  enhancing  the  legitimacy  of  its 
decisions. On the other hand, the status quo undermines 
the principles of equity, legitimacy, accountability and 
transparency, which are core values of multilateralism.
the 
international  system  on  the  track  of  dynamic  and 
effective  democratic  multilateralism  that  can  ensure 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  at  the  centre  of  global 
governance.  We  cannot  afford  to  remain  indifferent 
the  realities  of  our  rapidly  changing  global 
to 
circumstances.  Africa  will  continue 
to  advocate 
for  a  meaningful  reform  that  will  make  the  Security 
Council  more  relevant  and  responsive  to  the  present 
and  emerging  global  challenges,  and  will  continue  to 
promote the core principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations. Let me reiterate that Africa’s demand for two 
permanent  seats  and  two  additional  non-permanent 
seats, as articulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and the 
Sirte Declaration, provides a framework for correcting 
the  historical  injustice  that  the  continent  continues 
to endure.
To  conclude,  Africa  remains  committed  to  a 
comprehensive reform, as stipulated in decision 62/557 
and  other  relevant  General  Assembly  decisions.  We 
remain  open  to  working  with  all  Member  States  in 
canvassing support for the Common African Position.
Mr.  Ten-Pow  (Guyana):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  14  States 
members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) as 
our  contribution  to  today’s  debate  on  the  question  of 
Security Council reform.
At  the  outset,  CARICOM  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to thank the Permanent Representatives of 
Georgia and the United Arab Emirates, Ambassadors 
Kaha Imnadze and Lana Zaki Nusseibeh, respectively, 
for their excellent stewardship of the intergovernmental 
negotiations  during 
session. 
We  are  glad  to  have  Ambassador  Nusseibeh  back  as 
co-Chair, which will ensure a degree of continuity in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  we  welcome 
Ambassador  Christian  Braun  of  Luxembourg. 
CARICOM  will  continue  to  remain  engaged  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiations under the stewardship 
of the new co-Chairs.
seventy-second 
the 
18-39080
5/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
The General Assembly meets annually to debate the 
critical question of the reform of the Security Council. 
That  debate  is  followed  by  engagements  within  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Member  States  have 
spent many hours over the past several years discussing 
this important question and offering myriad proposals 
on  how  we  might  achieve  a  reformed  Council.  Given 
that  heavy  investment  of  time  and  other  resources,  it 
is  deeply  regrettable  that  more  progress  has  not  been 
made  on  the  long-standing  and  important  issue  of 
Security Council reform. Progress is in the hands of the 
Member States, and CARICOM firmly believes that if 
each of us summons the political will to go further than 
we have heretofore gone, progress could be achieved.
Every  session  that  concludes  without  achieving 
any  of  the  goals  envisaged  in  the  reform  process  is  a 
stark  reminder  that  the  imbalances  that  exist  in  the 
Council  will  continue  to  be  perpetuated  through  the 
maintenance  of  the  status  quo.  Those  imbalances 
include the exclusion of entire regions — specifically 
Africa  and  my  own  region  of  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean  —  from  the  permanent  category  of 
membership.  The  perpetuation  of  those  imbalances 
has  effectively  meant  that  nearly  50  per  cent  of  the 
current  membership  of  the  United  Nations  remains 
excluded  from  permanent  membership  of  one  of  its 
principal organs.
The perpetuation of that imbalance has also meant 
that  the  composition  of  the  Security  Council  has  not 
kept  up  with  the  evolution  in  the  membership  of  the 
Organization  and  therefore  raises  concerns  about 
its  representativeness.  In  1993,  when  the  General 
Assembly established the Open-ended Working Group 
on  the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and 
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council 
and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security  Council  in 
order to  consider  matters  related  to  the  reform  of  the 
Council, its decision was based on the recognition of
“the need to review the membership of the Security 
Council...  in  view  of  the  substantial  increase  in 
the membership of the United Nations, especially 
of developing countries, as well as the changes in 
international  relations”  (resolution  48/26,  fourth 
preambular paragraph).
The perpetuation of the status quo has also meant 
that  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  continues  to 
miss  out  on  the  benefit  of  important  perspectives 
and experience. As you are aware, Madam, CARICOM 
advocates  for  a  guaranteed  presence  of  small  island 
developing States on the Council. We believe that, given 
its unique experiences, that group of Member States has 
important contributions to make to the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security.  With  the  continued 
lack  of  progress  on  reform,  however,  CARICOM’s 
advocacy has not yet achieved the desired end.
In your statement prior to the opening of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session on 18 September, 
you  rightly  observed  that  “the  Security  Council  must 
adapt  to  new  political  realities”.  CARICOM  supports 
that view and notes that the United Nations continues 
to  affirm  the  value  of  multilateralism  and  equitable 
involvement  in  decision-making.  On  that  basis,  the 
Security  Council  must  be  restructured  in  a  way  that 
provides  opportunities  for  equitable  involvement  in 
the peace and security questions of which the Council 
is seized.
approach 
the 
As  we 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  during  this 
session,  CARICOM  takes  this  opportunity  to  share 
its expectations going forward. First, we hope to have 
continuity and to build on what has already been done. 
We  believe  that  the  revised  elements  of  commonality 
and  issues  for  further  consideration  paper,  circulated 
on  14  June,  should  be  one  of  the  principal  bases  for 
our work during this session. While the paper captures 
many of the perspectives expressed regarding the five 
pillars of negotiation, we believe that there is still scope 
to further shape its substance. CARICOM underscores 
the need for responses to the expressed wishes of the 
membership  and,  in  the  spirit  of  transparency,  the 
need to avoid the exclusion of ideas in any revisions of 
the paper.
Secondly,  CARICOM  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  respecting  the  voices  and  views  of  every  Member 
State. Reform of the Security Council is a particularly 
sensitive issue, and there are many divergent positions 
on the process and substance of the reform. However, 
CARICOM  believes  that,  as  sovereign  States,  every 
one of us can contribute meaningfully to the dialogue 
on  Security  Council  reform.  Maximum  participation 
should  be  encouraged  as  a  means  of  enhancing  the 
legitimacy of the process.
Thirdly  and  finally,  CARICOM  hopes  that  the 
meetings  this  year  can  achieve  some  concrete  and 
actionable  outcomes.  We  have  spent  many  years 
elaborating  our  positions,  and  CARICOM  hopes 
6/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
that  we  can  find  a  way  to  go  beyond  that  in  the 
upcoming months.
In conclusion, I thank you, Madam President, for 
organizing  this  important  debate  and  assure  you  of 
CARICOM’s full commitment to the early and urgent 
reform of the Security Council.
Ms. Miguel (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): I 
have the honour to speak on behalf of the L.69 group, 
a diverse group of countries — the majority of which 
are  small  States  from  Africa,  Latin  America,  the 
Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific — that are united by a 
common cause, namely, the need to achieve lasting and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
We thank you, Madam, for convening this meeting 
and for your thoughtful words. The L.69 group believes 
that your continued involvement in the issue of Security 
Council  reform  is  critical  to  our  ability  to  move  the 
process forward.
We are also grateful to the President of the General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, His Excellency 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, and the previous co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, Her Excellency Mrs. Lana Nusseibeh and His 
Excellency  Mr.  Kaha  Imnadze,  who  led  the  process 
with skill. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate 
the  recently  appointed  co-Chairs,  Her  Excellency 
Mrs. Lana Nusseibeh and His Excellency Mr. Christian 
Braun.  The  L.69  group  stands  ready  to  engage  with 
them to consolidate the gains made in previous sessions 
and to work towards text-based negotiations. They can 
rest assured of our support.
Shepherding  that  process  in  today’s  world  is  no 
easy task. We have engaged in more than 25 years of 
discussion on this topic and have maintained it on the 
agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  for  over  40  years. 
We  have  produced  volumes  of  documents,  delivered 
numerous  statements  and,  on  countless  occasions, 
expressed our desire to see tangible expressions of the 
political will for a reformed Security Council that has 
been professed by all Member States for many years. 
Nevertheless,  we  still  do  not  have  a  text  on  which  to 
base our negotiations. Over the past two years, the L.69 
group has highlighted the fact that at least 164 Member 
States  have  called  for  text-based  negotiations.  In  the 
previous session, the L.69 group produced a handbook 
compiling important documents from the past 25 years 
of deliberations on Security Council reform. In doing 
so,  we  were  motivated  by  the  need  to  highlight  the 
amount of work, time, diplomatic resources and sheer 
effort  that  has  been  expended  on  the  advancement  of 
this process.
to  reform 
Our  sustained  commitment 
is  of 
particular  importance  at  this  time.  The  world  is 
experiencing  fissures  in  the  fabric  of  the  rules-based 
multilateral order, which have laid bare the dysfunction 
and  paralysis  that  have  increasingly  gripped  the 
Security Council.
There is, however, an antidote to the malady that 
has afflicted the Council, which remains caught in the 
grip of a fever that it cannot break. The remedy lies in 
our hands, which must work through the vital organ of 
our Organization, namely, the General Assembly. This 
is as it should be, as it is the General Assembly that is 
charged with the duty of recommending
for  multilateralism  and  commitment 
“measures  for  the  peaceful  adjustment  of  any 
situation,  regardless  of  origin,  which  it  deems 
likely  to  impair  the  general  welfare  or  friendly 
relations among nations”.
As  we  prepare  for  our  eleventh  session  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  we  hope  that  our 
fervour 
to 
achieving  a  well-functioning  and 
representative 
Security Council will imbue our deliberations with the 
sense of hope and vitality that is required to make the 
United Nations a vital and energetic organism, heavily 
engaged, day after day, in the practical job of resolving 
the worst problems through cooperation among nations.
But  what  can  we  do  to  make  the  United  Nations 
a better, if not the perfect, international organization, 
starting with its most visible organ? First, by making 
the  Security  Council  truly  representative,  including 
through expansion in the permanent and non-permanent 
categories of membership; secondly, by making good on 
our leaders’ promise of early Security Council reform 
made at the sixtieth session of the General Assembly; 
thirdly, by showing our people that we are serious about 
our  commitments  by  moving  from  rhetoric  to  action; 
and fourthly, by fashioning the Security Council into a 
forum where multilateral engagement leads to lasting 
international  peace  and  security.  This  fourth  point  is 
particularly relevant as we debate ways to reaffirm our 
commitment to multilateralism. In that vein, movement 
on this stalled process will represent a reaffirmation of 
commitment to multilateralism.
18-39080
7/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
The  L.69  group  believes  that  transparency  is 
key  in  moving  the  process  forward.  We  ask  that  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  convene  another 
plenary  meeting  under  this  agenda  item  in  the  next 
resumed  session  to  facilitate  more  discussions  in 
the  open.  As  a  housekeeping  matter,  the  L.69  group 
would like to request the calendar of meetings for the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  as  far  in  advance  as  possible.  However,  we 
must  also  ensure  that  we  are  not  unduly  constrained 
in  our  planning.  In  keeping  with  the  need  for  more 
dialogue,  we  suggest 
intergovernmental 
negotiations calendar be open so as to allow as many 
meetings  as  possible.  Moreover,  we  must  not  start 
from scratch. Let us begin where we left off, with the 
paper  we  discussed  during  the  previous  session  of 
intergovernmental negotiations.
that 
the 
Before  closing,  I  would  like  to  note  that,  while 
progress  on  this  agenda  item  has  been  slow,  we  have 
made a few gains. For instance, at the previous session, 
the Common African Position — also supported by the 
L.69  group  —  received  overwhelming  support  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiations. Further work was done 
to build on the papers produced in previous sessions, 
and we are committed to making further progress this 
year. In that regard, the L.69 group supports the African 
Group’s request to have its position better reflected in 
the  revised  elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for 
further consideration paper.
The  seventy-fifth  anniversary  of 
the  United 
Nations will soon be upon us; let us not be weighed in 
the balance and found wanting.
Mr.  Akbaruddin  (India):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the members of the 
Group of Four — Brazil, Germany, Japan and my own 
country,  India.  We  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for 
organizing this annual debate on an issue that remains 
central to the reform of the Organization. As the late 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  stated,  and 
Secretary-General  Guterres  reiterated,  “no  reform  of 
the United Nations will be complete without the reform 
of the Security Council” (A/61/1, para. 161).
its 
At  the  outset,  let  me  begin  by  expressing  my 
gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at 
session,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, and the previous co-Chairs of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, Her Excellency Mrs. Lana Nusseibeh and His 
seventy-second 
Excellency Mr. Kaha Imnadze, for their contribution to 
the progress of this important process. They have left 
us with a result on which we can build. We hope that 
you, Madam President, and your team will effectively 
carry the baton handed over to you by making credible 
progress  at  this  session,  too.  In  that  context,  we  note 
your announcement of the appointment of the co-Chairs 
for the current session and look forward to seeing them 
start to move the process forward.
The views of the Group of Four on Security Council 
reforms  are  well-established.  The  Group  of  Four 
supports the early reform of the Council, and we seek 
expansion of both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories  of  membership  to  enhance  the  Council’s 
legitimacy,  effectiveness  and  representativeness.  We 
also desire an improvement in its working methods. It 
is  our  conviction  that  this  sentiment  is  indeed  shared 
by a broad majority of States Members of the United 
Nations,  including  several  of  the  groups  on  whose 
behalf representatives spoke earlier, namely, the Group 
of African States, the Caribbean Community, the Group 
of  Arab  States,  the  L.69  group  and  a  vast  number  of 
individual States.
The intergovernmental process has been under way 
for  a  decade,  and  yet  we  have  very  little  progress  to 
show, despite all the efforts by Member States over the 
years. Next year will mark 40 years since the request to 
include the question of equitable representation on and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council on 
the General Assembly’s agenda.
At  a  time  when  old  challenges  to  peace  and 
security have become more intense and the variety of 
new  threats  is  expanding,  we  cannot  afford  to  delay 
the reform of the body charged with the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  The  emphasis  on 
reform and change was a constant theme in addresses 
given  during  the  high-level  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly. In several debates since then, the desire for 
change  has  been  repeated,  including  during  the  open 
debate  on  multilateralism  in  the  Security  Council 
earlier this month (see S/PV.8395).
Words  now  need  to  be  followed  by  actions  if  we 
wish to achieve credible progress at the current session. 
After a decade of discussions, it is time to normalize 
the intergovernmental negotiations process. We need to 
begin negotiations in the same way as we have begun 
other intergovernmental processes. For that to happen, 
certain steps need to be taken. Allow me to elaborate.
8/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
First,  we  must  start  where  we  culminated  our 
deliberations at the previous session. We had a document 
that we were discussing: the paper on revised elements 
of  commonality  and  issues  for  further  consideration. 
We need not reinvent the wheel at this session. We need 
to  start  our  deliberations  by  addressing  issues  where 
we left them in that paper. The document that served 
as the basis of our past discussions can be the starting 
point of an open and transparent way forward during 
this session. We need to complete the tasks that we were 
unable to complete at the previous session for want of 
adequate time. For our part, as the Group of Four, we 
would  like  an  accurate  reflection  of  key  elements  of 
the positions of all groups to be included in the paper, 
for example, the Common African Position, which has 
garnered  the  support  of  a  very  large  segment  of  the 
total membership.
Secondly,  we  must  endeavour  to  foster  dialogue, 
not hinder it. It is our belief that the more opportunities 
there  are  for  dialogue,  the  greater  the  chances  for 
making progress. Taking cues from success stories of 
the  previous  session,  we  suggest  that  our  discussions 
on  Security  Council  reform  should  begin  as  early  as 
possible  and  that  there  should  not  be  any  artificial 
deadlines  to  end  discussions  prematurely  in  June. 
Continuous  dialogue,  for  example,  helped  to  resolve 
differences and reach agreement on important matters 
relating  to  global  health  at  the  end  of  the  seventy-
second session.
Thirdly, 
the 
intergovernmental 
negotiations 
should  operate  under  normal  rules  of  procedure,  like 
all other General Assembly processes. At the General 
Assembly,  we  carry  out  our  work  through  give-and-
take  negotiations,  focused  on  a  document,  with  the 
co-Chairs or facilitators acting as agents for facilitating 
dialogue. At the General Assembly, all a naysayer can 
do is, at worst, to cast a negative vote. What we have 
seen in the past couple of years is no credit to any of 
us. Naysayers cannot be allowed to cast a dark shadow 
over the entire membership and hold the overwhelming 
majority back. Some among us cannot be permitted to 
hold  the  entire  process  hostage  by  bending  the  rules 
of  negotiations.  If  we  permit  that,  we  run  the  risk  of 
breaking the process beyond repair.
Credible progress on this issue, Madam President, 
will  require  your  commitment  and  leadership  and 
supporting  efforts  in  facilitating  discussions  between 
the various groups and countries. The Group of Four, 
while  holding  a  common  position,  is  also  respectful 
of the different positions existing in this process. We 
are  committed  to  negotiating  with  all  groups  but,  for 
negotiations to be meaningful, it is essential to list the 
various aspects of the various positions. It is therefore 
crucial that we work on a text for negotiations.
The  desire  for  text-based  negotiations  is  not  a 
slogan.  It  is  a  necessity  for  a  transparent  negotiating 
process  in  good  faith.  A  text  that  reflects  all  the 
positions  and  proposals  of  Member  States  will  be  a 
mark of the process’s credibility going forward. If we 
fail,  we  must  not  hesitate  to  take  another  look  at  the 
process itself. We remain open to all options.
Next  year,  the  presidency  will  be  handed  over 
to  an  African  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
who  will  usher  us  all  into  the  seventy-fifth  year  of 
the  Organization.  Let  our  work  at  this  session  do  the 
aspirations  of  our  people  justice,  especially  those  on 
the  African  continent,  so  that  we  can  find  a  way  to 
correct  the  historical  injustice  to  Africa  and  address 
their  sense  of  grievance.  For  our  part,  I  assure  you, 
Madam President, that you will find the Group of Four 
on the side of progress and forward movement.
Mrs. Zappia (Italy): On behalf of the Uniting for 
Consensus (UFC) group, I wish to thank you, Madam 
President, for convening this annual debate on Security 
Council reform and commend you for your commitment 
to  a  reform  process  that  is  credible,  transparent 
and  inclusive.  Building  on  those  same  principles,  the 
UFC  group  looks  forward  to  cooperating  with  the 
new  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform,  Ambassadors  Lana 
Nusseibeh and Christian Braun. We warmly welcome 
them in their new capacities and wish to express our full 
support  for  them  in  the  upcoming  intergovernmental 
negotiations session.
This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  In  decision  62/557, 
adopted on 15 September 2008, the General Assembly 
agreed  to  start  intergovernmental  negotiations  “in 
good  faith,  with  mutual  respect  and  in  an  open, 
inclusive  and  transparent  manner”.  Over  the  years, 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  have  met  those 
expectations.  There  has  always  been  transparency 
and  inclusivity,  and  the  discussions  have  enabled  us 
to identify broad convergences among Member States. 
Those convergences include the fact that an increase in 
non-permanent seats is supported by all Member States 
and  provides  common  ground  for  advancing  Security 
18-39080
9/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
Council reform; that all Member States agree that such 
an expansion of seats should favour underrepresented 
regions  of  the  world;  and  that  a  significant,  growing 
number  of  Member  States  oppose  expanding  the 
veto  to  other  States  and  instead  support  limiting  or 
abolishing it.
Our  deliberations  have  already  had  an  impact 
on  the  current  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council.  More  transparency,  open-format  meetings, 
informative briefings and better access to information 
have  already  improved  the  Council’s  performance. 
However, our work is far from complete. We need to do 
more to achieve the broadest possible consensus on a 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
In  past  years,  the  UFC  group  has  complemented 
our  participation  in  intergovernmental  negotiations 
meetings  with  a  series  of  informal  consultations 
with  other  negotiating  groups.  The  purpose  of 
those  consultations  has  been  to  explore  and  identify 
common  ground,  in  parallel  with  the  efforts  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  narrow  differences 
among  Member  States.  One  of  the  most  recurrent 
concerns  that  we  have  heard  is  the  question  of  the 
number of opportunities that Member States will have 
to  serve  on  an  enlarged  Security  Council.  Looking 
ahead, we believe that that specific question should be 
at the centre of our debates.
The  General  Assembly  needs  to  properly  address 
the request of Africa to correct its underrepresentation 
on the Council. The General Assembly must consider 
the growing importance of the Asia-Pacific and Latin 
American  regions  and  grant  them  a  more  equitable 
representation.  Arab  countries  are  asking  for  a  more 
proportionate and more stable representation than the 
swing seat they currently have.
to 
listen 
We  should 
the  call  of  over  60 
countries  —  mainly  small  States  and  small  island 
developing  States  — 
the 
opportunity to serve on the Council and will rarely have 
the  opportunity  to  do  so  without  proper  reform.  We 
should also heed the appeal of the 23 Eastern European 
countries  that  wish  to  obtain  one  more  seat,  thereby 
increasing their chances of serving on the Council.
that  have  never  had 
In calling attention to those appeals and in a true 
spirit of flexibility, the UFC group has brought to the 
table  the  most  detailed  and  comprehensive  proposal, 
trying  to  take  the  demands  of  all  negotiating  groups 
into  consideration.  Our  proposal  is  the  result  of 
many adjustments made over the years in response to 
feedback from the various rounds of negotiations.
is 
Our  proposal 
to  create  new, 
longer-term 
non-permanent seats with the possibility of immediate 
re-election  and  to  increase  the  number  of  two-year 
non-permanent  seats,  coupled  with  a  more  equitable 
distribution  of  seats  among  regional  groups.  The 
longer-term seats would fulfil the legitimate desire of 
some Member States to make a greater contribution to 
the work of the Council and, at the same time, foster a 
fairer system of rotation.
The  Security  Council  would  consist,  then,  of 
26  members.  That  would  include  21  non-permanent 
seats,  assigned  as  follows:  six  seats  for  the  Group  of 
African  States,  three  of  which  would  be  longer-term 
seats;  five  seats  for  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States, 
three of which would be longer-term seats; four seats 
for the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
two  of  which  would  be  longer-term  seats;  three  seats 
for  the  Group  of  Western  European  and  other  States, 
one  of  which  would  be  a  longer-term  seat;  two  seats 
for the Group of Eastern European States; and one seat 
reserved  for  small  island  developing  States  or  small 
States. The latter would be a rotating seat, which would 
not  prevent  them  from  running  within  their  regional 
group, but would instead be an additional way for them 
to gain access to the Security Council.
the  breakdown  of  our 
Attached to the statement that we have circulated 
are  copies  of 
regional 
representation proposal and a comparison between the 
present Security Council and the one that we envisage. 
Everyone  benefits,  and  everyone  gains  greater 
access  to  the  Council  under  our  proposal.  No  one 
loses  out,  and  the  Council’s  ability  to  take  decisions 
remains undiminished.
Multilateralism  has  been  debated 
in  various 
forums  recently.  There  is  a  widespread  consensus 
that  Security  Council  reform  is  needed  to  strengthen 
multilateralism.  In  order  to  foster  the  trust  of  public 
opinion in this institution, the Security Council needs to 
become truly representative, accountable, democratic, 
transparent and effective. We should not aim to enlarge 
the  small  circle  of  permanent  members,  but  rather  to 
give all Member States — even the smallest ones — a 
greater  chance  to  contribute  to  finding  solutions  for 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security.  Concerning 
the veto, we fail to see how the addition of new vetoes 
10/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
would  make  a  new  Council  more  effective  and  more 
responsive to international crises.
For many years, the UFC group has pointed to the 
main  obstacle  to  reform,  namely,  the  demand  for  an 
increase in the number of permanent members. After 25 
years of focusing only on demands for new permanent 
seats,  which  would  benefit  just  a  handful  of  Member 
States, it is high time to give a concrete chance to all 
Member States. It is high time to offer real prospects to 
the groups of States and regions of the world that are 
underrepresented on the Council.
To  move  the  process  forward,  the  UFC  group  is 
ready  to  cooperate  with  you,  Madam  President,  as 
well  as  with  the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  and  the  membership  as  a  whole.  Our 
common  goal  must  be  to  increase  the  Council’s 
legitimacy in the eyes of both the general membership 
and international public opinion. That would enhance 
the Council’s authority and, ultimately, its effectiveness. 
We are ready to redouble our efforts to achieve reform, 
building  on  the  many  convergences  that  exist  among 
Member States.
Mrs.  Ellertsdottir  (Iceland):  I  am  speaking  on 
behalf  of  the  Nordic  countries:  Denmark,  Finland, 
Norway, Sweden and my own country, Iceland.
Let  me  start  by  thanking  Ambassador  Nusseibeh 
and  Ambassador  Braun  for  agreeing  to  co-chair  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  during  this  session.  We  wish  them  success  in 
that important task.
I reaffirm the commitment of the Nordic countries 
to engage in the collective effort to reform the Security 
Council.  The  complex  political  and  multifaceted 
challenges  we  face  globally  today  also  have  a  direct 
impact  on  the  role  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  more 
important than ever that the Security Council becomes 
more transparent, more effective, more accountable and 
more representative. We are encouraged by the steady 
progress  on  United  Nations  reform  that  is  currently 
energizing  the  work  of  the  Secretariat  and  Member 
States, particularly the ongoing efforts to enhance the 
efficiency  and  transparency  of  the  Council’s  work  in 
its existing format. We look forward to listening to and 
working with other Member States from all regions in 
support of continued reforms.
The Nordic countries support a balanced expansion 
of  the  Security  Council.  The  aim  must  be  to  better 
reflect  the  current  global  political  and  economic 
realities  and  to  ensure  increased  representation  of 
developing  countries,  including  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent  seats  for  Africa.  In  our  view,  it  is 
also important to enable possibilities for small States 
to  participate  in  the  decision-making  process  of  the 
Security Council as elected members.
Today, as we embark on a new intergovernmental 
negotiations  session,  we  welcome 
the  co-Chairs’ 
outlining  of  the  forthcoming  meetings  and  their 
invitation to explore potential elements of convergence 
so that we can move forward in a frank dialogue on the 
important  issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  We  join 
others in calling for the commencement of text-based 
negotiations.  We  see  that  as  the  best  way  to  harness 
the progress achieved to date in the intergovernmental 
negotiations  process  and  to  move  it  forward.  Rest 
assured that the Nordic countries will contribute to a 
constructive  dialogue  among  Member  States,  with  a 
view to achieving further progress during this session.
Mr. Kim Song (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): At present, Security Council reform is one of 
the core elements of the reform of the United Nations 
with  the  aim  of  enabling  the  Council  to  better  carry 
out  its  mission  to  ensure  peace  and  security  in  the 
world. The Security Council is one of the major organs 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  has  a  fundamental  mandate 
to  safeguard  world  peace  and  security  and  plays  an 
important role in building a peaceful and stable world.
However,  nowadays  the  principles  of  respect  for 
sovereignty, equality and non-intervention are openly 
disregarded  in  the  Security  Council,  and  interference 
in  internal  affairs,  pressure  and  infringement  on  the 
independence  of  sovereign  States  continue  unabated. 
More than 70 years have passed since the United Nations 
was founded. Nevertheless, the Security Council, which 
is  becoming  infested  with  unilateralism,  has  turned 
into the Insecurity Council. If the Security Council is 
to fully carry out its mandate, it should firmly ensure 
international  justice  and  impartiality  for  the  benefit 
of all Member States and not just strategically benefit 
certain  countries.  The  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  hereby  like  to 
clarify  its  principled  position  with  regard  to  Security 
Council reform.
First,  Security  Council  reform  should  be  carried 
out  based  on  the  principle  of  ensuring  international 
justice,  impartiality  and  democracy.  Carrying  out 
18-39080
11/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
justice, 
Security  Council  reform  on  the  principle  of  ensuring 
international 
impartiality  and  democracy 
means building a Security Council where the principles 
of  sovereign  equality,  non-intervention  and 
the 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflict  —  which,  as  stated  in 
the Charter of the United Nations, are the foundation of 
international relations — are strictly observed.
Secondly,  Security  Council  reform  should  be 
carried  out  based  on  the  principle  of  ensuring  the 
full  representation  of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned 
Countries and other developing countries, which make 
up the majority of Member States. Therefore, providing 
those  countries  with  full  and  equal  representation  is 
an  absolute  necessity  for  building  a  democratically 
strengthened  Security  Council.  Intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  should 
have  begun  over  10  years  ago.  There  are  still  many 
different  views  with  regard  to  increasing  the  number 
of  permanent  seats  on  the  Security  Council.  In  that 
context, the most feasible way to solve the problem is 
to proceed by increasing the number of non-permanent 
seats ahead of all other reforms. We regard that as one 
of the ways to help correct the unequal composition of 
the Security Council.
Thirdly, the delegation of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea strongly opposes Japan’s aspirations 
for a permanent seat on the Security Council. Japan is a 
war criminal State that in the past invaded many Asian 
countries  by  force  and  committed  heinous  crimes 
against  humanity.  Although  more  than  70  years  have 
passed since the end of the Second World War, Japan 
has not admitted to its past crimes; rather, it continues 
to defy the international community by sugar-coating 
its  history.  To  give  Japan,  a  country  that  committed 
the gravest crimes against humanity, a permanent seat 
on  the  Security  Council  would  be  nothing  short  of  a 
mockery  of  human  conscience  and  a  disgrace  to  the 
United Nations.
In  conclusion,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  continues  to  hope  that 
the  sincere  efforts  of  all  Member  States  for  Security 
Council reform will achieve success and meet the high 
expectations of the international community.
Ms. Brink (Australia): At the outset, I would like to 
thank Ambassadors Imnadze and Nusseibeh for leading 
the  important  process  of  Security  Council  reform 
during  the  seventy-second  session.  Australia  also 
warmly  welcomes  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador 
Nusseibeh and the appointment of Ambassador Braun 
as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations for 
this session.
The international rules and institutions that support 
security and stability and promote collective responses 
to  global  challenges  are  under  significant  strain. 
The  Security  Council  is  one  of  the  most  important 
mechanisms  that  we  have  to  support  the  rules-based 
international  order,  sitting,  as  it  does,  at  the  apex  of 
the  peace  and  security  pillar  of  this  Organization. 
We  need  to  ensure  that  it  is  as  effective  as  possible. 
Australia has long called for Security Council reform. 
We believe that there is a clear consensus to the effect 
that substantive reform of the Council is well overdue 
and that the membership should act on that issue. But, 
as a group, we have not delivered.
As  one  of  the  founding  members  of  the  United 
Nations, Australia has been calling for ways to increase 
the  effectiveness  and  legitimacy  of  the  Security 
Council since the Organization was created. Increased 
transparency  and  limits  on  the  use  of  the  veto  have 
been our ongoing themes. The document from the past 
session entitled “Revised elements of commonality and 
issues  for  further  consideration”  was  a  step  forward. 
However, to date there has been only minor, incremental 
progress,  and  it  is  clear  that  we  need  to  change  our 
approach.  Converging  consensus  is  a  reasonable  aim, 
but it is proving to be very slow to materialize. As we 
know from our other work at the United Nations, text-
based negotiations can accelerate consensus. It is time 
that  we  moved  from  statements  in  meetings  like  this 
one to drafts.
Australia  supports  greater  representation  on  the 
Council  for  Asia,  Latin  America  and  Africa  in  order 
to reflect contemporary geopolitical realities. We agree 
that  an  expanded  Council  should  still  be  able  to  act 
swiftly  and  decisively,  within  limits.  We  support  the 
restraint  on  the  use  of  the  veto  in  situations  of  mass 
atrocity. And we support improvements to the Council’s 
working  methods  in  order  to  enable  the  effective 
operation  of  those  reforms.  We  do  not  underestimate 
the complexity of that task. There are diverging views 
and  differing  interests.  Deliberations  in  the  current 
format on Council reform have now been held for more 
than  25  years.  If  the  task  were  easy,  we  would  have 
solved it by now. But we deal with complex tasks every 
day.  Australia  joins  its  voice  and  its  commitment  to 
the  efforts  aimed  at  reforming  the  Security  Council 
so  that  it  may  be  more  legitimate  and  more  effective 
12/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
in  carrying  out  its  crucial  function  in  support  of 
international peace and security.
Mr.  Elmajerbi  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I thank you, Madam President, for convening this 
meeting  on  agenda  item  124  concerning  the  question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related  to  the  Security  Council.  My  delegation  aligns 
itself with the statement delivered by the representative 
of the Republic of Sierra Leone, which represents the 
Common African Position, and the statement delivered 
by the representative of Kuwait, which represents the 
position of the Group of Arab States.
We  hope  to  begin  a  serious  negotiation  process 
aimed  at  achieving  the  desired  objectives  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  will  lead  to 
an  unprecedented  reform  in  the  work  of  the  Council 
and should allow us to achieve the noble objectives of 
our Organization. My country’s delegation would like 
to  thank  all  those  who  have  participated  in  previous 
negotiations,  whether  delegations,  co-Chairs  or 
the Secretariat.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  primarily 
seeks  to  regulate  inter-State  relations  and  to  prevent 
crises, wars and catastrophes, which are caused by the 
behaviour of certain States. Such behaviour is restrained 
by international legal rules and the implementation of 
pre-emptive and deterrent diplomacy. That depends, in 
the first place, on the collective will of States, which 
must  also  work  in  good  faith  within  the  principles  of 
the United Nations.
Today’s  world  has  witnessed  major  new 
developments, nothing like those seen in the 1940s and 
the  1950s.  We  therefore  need  to  take  important  and 
necessary measures that have been imposed on us by the 
new circumstances, which make it imperative to carry 
out  reforms  to  the  main  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and  security,  namely,  the  Security  Council.  Those 
reforms should be holistic and should focus on the five 
aspects  of  the  reform  process,  including  the  question 
of equitable geographic representation, especially with 
regard to the African continent.
Africa  has  54  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations. However, it is not equitably represented in the 
Security  Council,  even  though  more  than  75  per  cent 
of  the  agenda  items  before  the  Council  are  related  to 
Africa. In that regard, all States Members of the United 
Nations  should  recognize  that  the  time  has  come  to 
address  the  historical  injustice  that  has  been  done  to 
the African continent and to consider Africa’s demands 
as  legitimate,  realistic  and  applicable.  The  Common 
African  Position  has  been  reaffirmed  by  the  States 
of  the  African  continent  on  a  number  of  occasions, 
as stipulated in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte 
Declaration, which call for two permanent seats on the 
Security  Council  for  the  African  continent  with  all 
the  privileges  of  permanent  seats,  including  the  veto 
power, as well as two non-permanent seats.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  position  that  has 
been  taken  by  members  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
resuming  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council. We would like 
to stress that we must do our utmost to reach a common 
understanding  on  the  way  in  which  we  can  proceed 
and  achieve  our  desired  objectives  concerning  that 
long overdue process, given the agreement on certain 
issues and common ground. My delegation would also 
like to emphasize the need to start serious negotiations, 
given the urgent need to reform the Security Council 
and  develop  its  working  methods  in  a  transparent 
and  democratic  way.  That  would  contribute  to  the 
maintenance of international peace and security, while 
allowing  all  parties  concerned  to  participate  in  all  of 
the discussions of the Council.
Intergovernmental negotiations on the reform of the 
Security Council require a holistic view of all aspects 
of those reforms, while taking into account the need to 
expedite them. That cannot happen, as Members know, 
without demonstrating collective will and recognizing 
the injustice that has been done with regard to Africa’s 
representation  on  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as 
the  Council’s  non-democratic  methods  of  work, 
as  some  have  said.  Even  some  countries  that  have 
enjoyed  non-permanent  membership  of  the  Council 
have  complained  about  the  control  of  the  permanent 
members  over  the  Council’s  work.  In  addition,  the 
two-year  membership  of  the  Council  is  too  brief  to 
allow non-permanent members to make a contribution. 
We  also  believe  that  there  is  a  need  to  develop  the 
relationship  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, the body that represents all Members of the 
United Nations, in a way that can achieve harmony in 
the work of the two organs without allowing an overlap. 
18-39080
13/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
Those two organs should not appear to be working in 
two different organizations.
To conclude, my delegation reiterates its readiness 
to  participate  in  the  new  round  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  reforming  the  Security  Council.  We 
hope  that  the  new  round  will  be  the  beginning  of  a 
serious process that will achieve the desired objectives 
and transform the most important organ of the United 
Nations  into  an  effective  one  that  can  accomplish 
its  duties  as  required.  That  would  also  correct  the 
historical injustice with regard to the representation of 
certain regions and would change the working methods 
of the Council, allowing it to work in a transparent and 
more democratic manner.
Mr.  Sparber  (Liechtenstein)  At  a  time  when  the 
international  rules-based  order  is  under  increasing 
pressure,  the  world  cannot  afford  a  dysfunctional 
Security Council. The fact that the Council is unable 
to act decisively on many of the defining crises of our 
time is in stark contrast to its mandate as set out in the 
Charter of the United Nations and is also detrimental 
to the United Nations. The prolonged standstill in the 
intergovernmental negotiations process compounds an 
already sobering track record of the General Assembly 
holding  the  Security  Council  accountable  for  its 
performance.  The  potential  for  conflict  is  rising,  and 
a  strong  and  robust  United  Nations  as  the  beacon  of 
multilateralism is needed more than ever.
It  is  imperative  that  we  make  the  Council  more 
broadly  representative,  efficient  and  transparent;  yet 
we seem to be unable to overcome the current deadlock. 
In  the  area  of  enlargement,  there  is  no  prospect  for 
progress  as  long  as  deeply  entrenched  views  on 
opposite  sides  of  the  discussion  prevail.  Without  any 
indication  of  flexibility,  it  is  hard  to  imagine  a  way 
forward. Liechtenstein has actively contributed to the 
intergovernmental negotiations, and we continue to see 
high-level engagement by many Member States.
At  the  same  time,  we  should  have  a  serious 
discussion  about  the  fundamentals  of  this  process, 
which  we  increasingly  see  as  benefiting  most  those 
that  show  the  least  interest  in  progress.  As  is  well 
known, Liechtenstein suggested an enlargement model 
that we hoped could provide a middle ground in going 
forward  —  adding  a  new  category  of  long-term  seats 
of  8  to  10  years  with  the  possibility  of  immediate 
re-election.  The  other  main  elements  of  our  proposal 
are no new veto powers, flexibility to add new two-year 
seats, a strong review clause and a flip-flop clause that 
bars Member States that have lost an election for long-
term seats from running for short-term seats.
The  enlargement  of  the  Council  does  not  equal 
reform. Which States serve on the Council is certainly 
an essential question for how the Council is perceived 
and for its credibility. How the Council goes about its 
daily business and how it carries out its functions is of no 
less importance. We have consistently worked together 
with like-minded States to help the Council do better 
in that respect, and we have achieved important results. 
The Ombudsperson to the Security Council Committee 
pursuant  to  resolutions  1267  (1999),  1989  (2011)  and 
2253  (2015)  concerning  ISIL  (Da’esh),  Al-Qaida  and 
associated 
individuals,  groups,  undertakings  and 
entities was an initiative that had its origins outside the 
Security Council. We see great merit in expanding its 
mandate to other sanctions regimes.
Another  key  initiative  is  the  code  of  conduct 
submitted  by 
the  Accountability,  Coherence  and 
Transparency (ACT) group for the Security Council to 
prevent and end atrocity crimes. We had the honour to 
lead  the  effort  in  the  ACT  group  that  resulted  in  the 
code  of  conduct  on  veto  restraint,  which  is  currently 
supported  by  118  States,  nine  of  which  are  current 
Security Council members. Since 2019, with five new 
incoming non-permanent Council members, two-thirds 
of the Security Council membership will have signed 
the  code.  All  those  States  have  committed  to  taking 
action to prevent and end atrocity crimes when serving 
on the Council. Relevant situations to which the code 
applies today include Myanmar, Syria and Yemen.
For  Liechtenstein,  subscribing  to  the  code  of 
conduct  is  the  minimum  commitment  that  we  expect 
of  any  Council  member.  We  will  therefore  continue 
to  support  Security  Council  candidatures  only  from 
States  that  have  signed  the  code  of  conduct,  and  we 
call on others to do the same. Such a policy can make 
a  tangible  contribution  to  improving  the  work  of  the 
Council,  which  is  one  of  the  very  concrete  measures 
that members of the Assembly can take while progress 
on enlargement of the Council eludes us.
Mr. Sukhee (Mongolia): Allow me to join previous 
speakers in expressing our genuine appreciation to you, 
Madam President, for convening this important debate. 
We welcome your intention and readiness to guide and 
move  the  Security  Council  reform  process  forward 
despite  the  existing  difficulties.  I  wish  to  extend  our 
14/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
thanks to the co-Chairs, Ambassador Lana Nusseibeh 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Ambassador  Kaha 
Imnadze of Georgia, for their active engagement during 
the previous session and their efforts to make progress 
in reforming the Security Council.
While  aligning  my  delegation  with  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines on behalf of the L.69 group of developing 
countries,  I  would  like  to  add  a  few  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
Little  progress  has  been  made  despite  25  years 
of  efforts  to  reform  the  Security  Council.  Those 
years  have  been  marked  by  the  establishment  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question  of 
Security  Council  reform  in  2008  and  its  predecessor, 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question 
of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the 
Membership  of  the  Security  Council,  in  1993.  The 
intergovernmental  negotiations  have  failed  so  far  to 
yield a concrete outcome, although their sessions have 
resulted  in  outcome  documents,  including  the  latest 
paper, entitled “Revised elements of commonality and 
issues for further consideration”. In order to realize a 
timely reform of the Security Council — an essential 
element  in  our  overall  effort  to  reform  the  United 
Nations  —  we  should  urgently  commence  text-based 
negotiations instead of convening unproductive circular 
discussions. We are called on to continue our efforts to 
achieve the objective of making the Security Council 
more broadly representative, efficient and transparent, 
thereby  further  enhancing  its  effectiveness  and  the 
legitimacy of its decisions and their implementation.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate 
Mongolia’s  principled  position  concerning  the  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  with  regard  to  the  following 
key issues. A just and equitable expansion in both the 
permanent and the non-permanent categories should be 
maintained. Our stance in favour of an enlargement of 
both the current categories is guided by considerations 
based  on  the  Council’s  composition  as  defined  by 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  reflects 
contemporary  realities,  as  well  as  the  principles  of 
justice  and  equality.  We  seek  to  ensure  greater  and 
enhanced  representation  of  developing  countries, 
particularly the non-represented and underrepresented 
regional groups.
The right of veto should be abolished. The use of 
the veto should be restricted in the Security Council, 
in  particular  with  regard  to  Chapter  VII–related 
decisions.  If  the  use  of  the  veto  is  to  be  maintained, 
it  should  be  extended  to  all  new  members  of  the 
permanent  category  of  the  Security  Council,  which 
must  enjoy  all  the  prerogatives  and  privileges  of 
permanent  membership,  including  the  right  of  veto. 
Adequate  representation  of  all  groups,  particularly 
non-represented  and  underrepresented  ones,  in  both 
categories  of  the  Security  Council  membership  must 
be  duly  considered.  The  solution  should  be  fair  and 
just.  We  therefore  attach  great  importance  to  the 
criterion  of  equitable  geographical  distribution  as  we 
emphasize  the  representation  of  the  non-represented 
and underrepresented groups, particularly Africa, Asia 
and the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States.
the  non-permanent  category, 
the  strengthening  of  a  fair  and  equitable  rotation 
system  within  a  geographical  regional  group  is  of 
high  importance  to  my  country.  In  that  respect,  my 
delegation  also  supports  the  allocation  of  additional 
seats to the current regional groups, while ensuring the 
representation of small developing countries.
With  regard 
to 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  I  wish  to  express  my 
appreciation  to  you,  Madam  President,  for  convening 
this  important  debate  on  the  question  of  the  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform,  Ambassador  Lana  Zaki 
Nusseibeh,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  and  Ambassador  Kaha  Imnadze, 
Permanent Representative of Georgia, for the effective 
manner in which they conducted the process last year.
Whenever we mention the words “United Nations 
reform”, we imagine a Security Council that reflects the 
realities of the world in which we live; a Council whose 
debates,  decisions  and  decision-making  processes  are 
consistent  with  the  democratic  values  that  we  preach 
and promote at home; and a Council whose membership, 
including  the  manner  in  which  members  are  elected, 
reflects the letter and spirit of the provisions of Article 
23 of the Charter of the United Nations.
For the Maldives, a reformed Security Council is 
one in which there are more permanent members and 
that  is  more  representative  and  reflects  the  political 
and  economic  realities  of  our  time.  A  reformed 
Council is one whose membership maintains equitable 
geographical distribution, which the Charter explicitly 
requires.  It  is  our  firm  belief  that  every  country 
18-39080
15/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
deserves an opportunity to be heard and to have a say. 
For  the  Maldives,  a  reformed  Council  is  one  whose 
membership comprises developing countries, including 
small States. That is necessary in order to reflect the 
diversity of the United Nations membership.
campaign 
Larger countries, especially those that have served 
on the Council, have a moral, and a Charter, obligation 
to  ensure  that  small  States,  especially  those  that 
have not served before, get a fair chance. A reformed 
Council is one where the candidates for membership do 
not have to spend a fortune on their election. Elections 
to membership of the Council have become such that 
smaller  States  find  themselves  having  to  undertake 
expensive 
limited 
resources. Those that cannot afford to undertake such 
expensive campaigns lose out. We believe that that is 
most certainly why only eight small island developing 
States  have  managed  to  secure  a  seat  on  the  Council 
since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations.  Smaller 
States  can  bring  unique  perspectives  and  fresh  ideas 
to  the  Council  if  they  are  able  to  be  elected  and  to 
serve.  Equitable  geographical  distribution  should  not 
resemble  a  principle  with  a  financial  price  tag.  That, 
we believe, is a necessary topic for discussions on the 
reform of the Security Council.
practices 
despite 
to 
improve 
A  reformed  Council  must  also 
its 
decision-making and implementation processes. There 
is a need for the Council to look beyond the traditional 
definition  of  security  and 
include  emerging 
threats,  such  as  climate  change  and  sea-level  rise  as 
threat  multipliers.  The  Maldives  has  made  several 
proposals  in  the  past  aimed  at  enabling  the  Council 
to  establish  a  regular  consultative  dialogue  with  the 
Assembly  and  the  relevant  United  Nations  agencies 
so  that  climate-induced  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security  can  be  addressed  in  a  more  holistic  and 
coordinated way.
Relevance  and  resilience  are  concepts  central  to 
the legitimacy and effectiveness of any political body. 
The Security Council must be seen to be relevant to the 
real  issues  and  represent  the  real  aspirations  of  “We 
the people”, the words with which the Charter begins. 
It  cannot  continue  to  live  in  an  order  shaped  by  the 
environment of 1945. Unless it is able to adapt to the 
changes in world politics and be seen to represent the 
international  community,  it  cannot  draw  legitimacy 
for  its  decisions.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  the 
necessary  reforms  be  brought  to  the  Council  in  a 
timely fashion.
Mr. Vieira (Brazil): Brazil associates itself with the 
statements delivered by the Permanent Representative 
of  India  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Four  and  by  the 
Deputy Permanent Representative of Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines on behalf of the L.69 group, and wishes 
to add a few remarks in its national capacity.
I  would  like  to  express  the  gratitude  of  my 
delegation  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-second  session,  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák, 
and  to  thank  the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  Ambassadors  Lana  Nusseibeh  of  the 
United Arab Emirates and Kaha Imnadze of Georgia, 
for  their  contribution  during  the  previous  session  to 
advancing Security Council reform.
I  would  also  like  to  welcome  the  reappointment 
of  Ambassador  Nusseibeh  and  the  appointment  of 
Ambassador  Christian  Braun  of  Luxembourg  as  the 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations during 
the  seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
As always, they can count on Brazil’s full support in 
their endeavours.
On  15  September  2008,  the  General  Assembly 
the 
adopted  decision  62/557,  which  established 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  That  decision  was 
the  result  of  the  desire  of  Member  States  to  move 
from  the  discussions  in  the  framework  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related 
to  the  Security  Council  to  a  more  results-oriented 
process that could effectively achieve the reform of the 
Security Council.
A  decade 
later,  however,  we  still  have  not 
witnessed  the  necessary  progress  that  we  had  hoped 
would accompany the intergovernmental negotiations. 
That  progress  should  not  take  the  form  of  an  endless 
debate on abstract concepts that leads nowhere, which 
not only does not advance the interests of the majority 
of Member States but could jeopardize the legitimacy 
of the intergovernmental negotiations as a whole.
reiterates 
its  commitment 
Brazil 
to  helping 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  which  have 
seen  considerable  progress  at  recent  sessions  of  the 
General  Assembly.  To  that  end,  we  must  effectively 
commence  the  long-overdue  text-based  negotiations. 
We  fully  support  the  three-step  strategy  proposed  by 
Ambassador  Syed  Akbaruddin  of  India,  on  behalf  of 
the Group of Four. Allow me to further elaborate.
16/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
in 
We  need 
to  guarantee  continuity 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  During  the  previous 
session,  the  co-Chairs  —  Ambassadors  Nusseibeh 
and Imnadze — drafted a document entitled “Revised 
elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for  further 
consideration”  based  on  the  outcome  papers  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  of  the  sixty-ninth, 
seventieth and seventy-first General Assembly sessions 
and on the statements made from the floor.
Nevertheless, despite all efforts made during that 
harmonization  exercise,  the  outcome  document  is 
still  incomplete.  What  we  should  do  during  the  next 
intergovernmental negotiations is quite clear. We need 
to start the session by debating the revised document in 
order to ensure that it includes, among other points, the 
positions  that  clearly  received  overwhelming  support 
from Member States and that were, unfortunately, not 
taken into account.
In  that  regard,  the  identification  of  the  countries 
supporting  the  various  options  contained  in  the  text 
or the attribution of names and an adequate reference 
to  the  Common  African  Position  are  two  requests 
from Member States that enjoyed clear approval from 
the  floor  during  the  seventy-second  session.  They 
deserve  special  consideration.  In  that  context,  allow 
me  to  underline  the  importance  of  correcting  the 
historical  injustice  done  to  the  African  continent  by 
it not being adequately represented in both categories 
of  seats  —  permanent  and  non-permanent  —  in  the 
Security Council.
We  need  to  make  full  use  of  the  time  available 
to  us.  The  next  meetings  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  should  start  as  early  as  possible,  and  we 
should not impose upon ourselves artificial deadlines 
for the conclusion of our debate. More explicitly, there 
is no need for the negotiations to end in June, as was the 
case last year, almost three months before the end of the 
seventy-second session of the General Assembly. It is 
quite common in the General Assembly for important 
negotiation processes to be carried out up until the last 
days of the session — even in August or September. My 
delegation  truly  believes  that  negotiations  regarding 
the reform of the Security Council are indeed some of 
the most crucial negotiations conducted in the General 
Assembly.  It  is  also  important  that  the  co-Chairs  of 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  enjoy  flexibility 
in  managing  their  provisional  schedule  of  meetings 
so that they can convene as many additional meetings 
as necessary.
In the same vein, we also support the idea that you, 
Madam  President,  convene  another  plenary  meeting 
under this agenda item in the next resumed session, as 
proposed by the Deputy Permanent Representative of 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, on behalf of the L.69 
group.  As  some  Member  States  have  already  stated, 
many of the points related to the reform of the Security 
Council need further discussion. That is exactly what 
we are proposing — to discuss this complex question 
as much as possible during the seventy-third session of 
the General Assembly.
sure 
that 
to  make 
Finally,  we  need 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations follow the normal rules 
of procedure. As I already mentioned, the negotiations 
on the reform of the Security Council were created by 
the General Assembly and are conducted by the General 
Assembly  —  the  most  universal  decision-making 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  General  Assembly 
includes 193 Member States, and each Member’s vote 
has equal weight. That is to say, no State has any veto 
rights in the Assembly. Therefore, it is not reasonable 
that  some  countries  reserve  for  themselves  the  power 
of  obstructing  an  entire  negotiation  when  a  broad 
majority is working constructively for its development. 
It  is  necessary  to  ensure  that,  like  any  other  process 
in 
intergovernmental 
negotiations work with a text with identified positions 
and  proposals,  and  with  the  sincere  and  transparent 
engagement  of  Member  States  aimed  at  finding 
acceptable  compromises.  That  is  what  a  negotiation 
is, and that is what the intergovernmental negotiations 
should truly become in order to keep States Members 
of the Organization committed to that exercise.
the  General  Assembly, 
the 
I have no doubt, Madam President, of your strong 
commitment  to  reforming  the  Security  Council  in 
order  to  make  it  more  representative  and  fit  to  face 
the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  We  look 
forward  to  working  with  the  new  co-Chairs  of  the 
intergovernmental negotiations.
Mr.  Gafoor  (Singapore):  I  thank  you,  Madam 
President,  for  your  leadership  and  your  personal 
engagement  on  this  very  important  issue.  I  join 
previous  speakers  in  thanking  Ambassadors  Kaha 
Imnadze of Georgia and Lana Nusseibeh of the United 
Arab Emirates for their hard work over the past year as 
co-Chairs of the intergovernmental negotiations at the 
previous session. I also welcome your announcement, 
Madam President, that you will reappoint Ambassador 
Lana  Nusseibeh  and  appoint  Ambassador  Christian 
18-39080
17/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
Braun of Luxembourg. We wish them good luck, and 
we  commend  their  courage  in  taking  on  this  very 
important assignment.
During  the  high-level  week,  much  was  said  by 
our leaders about the need to strengthen and reinforce 
multilateralism and the multilateral rules-based system. 
A  critical  part  of  our  multilateral  architecture  is  the 
Security  Council.  As  we  look  for  ways  to  strengthen 
and  reinforce  multilateralism,  we  cannot  ignore  the 
important question of Council reform. Indeed, we need 
to  make  the  Council  more  effective,  accountable  and 
representative if we are to strengthen our multilateral 
system.  All  members  of  the  United  Nations  would 
benefit from the reform of the Council. Let me make a 
counter-intuitive point — the greatest beneficiaries of 
Security Council reform will, in fact, be the permanent 
members because, ultimately, any reform will enhance 
the  credibility  of  the  Council  and  that,  in  turn,  will 
enhance the legitimacy of the permanent members as 
they  discharge  their  special  responsibilities.  I  would 
therefore urge the five permanent members to embrace 
the  need  for  reform  and  to  lead  the  process  from  the 
front rather than from the rear.
It is evident that vast differences in opinion remain 
among Member States on the issue of Security Council 
reform.  In  that  regard,  Singapore  believes  that  the 
updated  paper  circulated  in  June,  entitled  “Revised 
elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for  further 
consideration”,  broadly  reflects  the  current  state  of 
discussions on Council reform and offers a good basis 
for all of us to build upon. It is a reflection of all of the 
work that has been done so far, and it is important that 
we build on it further.
The 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
urgently  needs  to  produce  tangible  results  so  as  to 
demonstrate that there can be progress, that reform is 
possible  and  that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
remain a suitable platform for achieving such reform. 
If  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  unable  to 
show  progress,  they  will  become  irrelevant.  Let  me 
once again ask a question that I have often asked from 
this rostrum — are the intergovernmental negotiations 
a  vehicle  for  reform  or  merely  an  instrument  for 
maintaining  the  status  quo?  Are  they  capable  of 
delivering reform or will they end in gridlock?
The point I am making is that if the intergovernmental 
negotiations are to be taken seriously, they must deliver 
results soon. Failure to reform the Security Council in 
the  interest  of  better  reflecting  present-day  realities 
will  inevitably  undermine  the  trust  that  people  have 
in  the  Security  Council  and,  more  broadly,  in  the 
United Nations.
in 
reiterated 
inclusivity 
Singapore  has 
its  consistent  and 
long-standing  position  on  Security  Council  reform 
many  times.  I  echo  the  sentiment  of  many  others  in 
stating  that  the  Council  must  reflect  and  exemplify 
the  diversity  among  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations of today. There must be broader geographical 
representation  and 
the  Council, 
particularly  from  underrepresented  regions  such  as 
Africa.  That  means  that  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent membership must be expanded. We also 
wish to underline the need for small States, particularly 
small  island  developing  States,  to  be  represented.  No 
reform  process  should  disadvantage  the  small  States 
or  the  small  island  developing  States.  In  that  regard, 
we  welcome  the  expression  of  support  from  groups 
and  delegations  for  the  representation  of  small  States 
and  small  island  developing  States  in  an  expanded 
Security Council.
like 
therefore 
to  make 
Singapore  would 
the 
following  comments  on  the  way  forward  for  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process this year. First, 
we  must  recognize  and  build  on  the  progress  that  we 
have made in our discussions over the past three years 
on  elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for  further 
consideration. We will rely on the co-Chairs’ wisdom 
as to how best to take forward those discussions, based 
on the work that has already been done. We welcome the 
fact that there will be continuity through the continued 
presence of one of the co-Chairs. We think that will be 
very helpful.
that 
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  Security  Council’s 
working  methods,  we  believe 
there  have 
been  steps  in  the  right  direction  to  improve  the 
Council’s  transparency,  efficiency  and  engagement 
with  non-members.  We  welcome  the  adoption  and 
implementation  of  Security  Council  presidential  note 
507 (S/2017/507), and we note the increased regularity 
of  introductory  and  wrap-up  sessions  by  Council 
Presidents.  But  we  think  more  can  be  done  to  ensure 
equity  in  the  distribution  of  the  chairmanships  of 
subsidiary bodies, as well as the famous — or should 
I say — infamous penholdership system. We welcome 
the more active role played by the 10 elected members 
in the Council and we encourage all elected members 
to continue to play an active role within the Council.
18/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
Finally,  there  must  be  greater  accountability  and 
transparency  in  the  decision-making  processes  of  the 
Council, particularly with regard to the role played by its 
sanctions committees. I am encouraged by the initiative 
launched  by  several  Member  States  and  bodies  this 
year to create a best practices guide for representatives 
on  the  sanctions  committees  and  the  experts,  aimed 
at  improving  the  effectiveness  and  transparency  of 
the  Council’s  use  of  sanctions.  The  regional  meeting 
reaching  out  to  various  groups  held  by  the  Security 
Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 
1718 (2006) yesterday is another good example of the 
sort of thing that needs to be encouraged. We believe 
that,  over  time,  such  initiatives  will  add  to  the  body 
of knowledge and help to foster greater understanding 
and  participation  in  the  United  Nations  sanctions 
system,  which  is  of  the  utmost  importance  given  the 
impact  and  consequences  that  sanctions  can  have  on 
all States Members of the United Nations. The Council 
should find ways to continue working with the General 
Assembly to take that issue forward.
I assure the co-Chairs of Singapore’s commitment 
to  and  continued  support  for  the  important  topic  of 
Security Council reform. Singapore is a small country, 
and its survival depends on there being a world governed 
by  a  multilateral  rules-based  system.  The  success 
of  the  United  Nations  is  critical  to  small  States  like 
Singapore. As the United Nations organ responsible for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
the Council also has a special responsibility to be the 
guardian of the multilateral rules-based system. We ask 
the members of the Council, especially the permanent 
members, to reflect on the role that has been entrusted 
to them and the role that they should play with regard to 
the Council’s reform process. They too have a special 
responsibility  to  lead  the  reform  process.  Robust 
debate  within  the  Council  must  also  be  accompanied 
by a willingness to compromise and the political will to 
change. Otherwise, the Security Council will amount 
to  little  more  than  a  stage  for  politics  and  posturing 
without  meaningful  impact  on  the  lives  of  ordinary 
people on the ground.
(spoke 
(Argentina) 
Mr.  García  Moritán 
in 
Spanish):  First,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
outstanding  work  of  Ambassadors  Nusseibeh  of  the 
United Arab Emirates and Imnadze of Georgia in the 
arduous  task  of  co-chairing  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  during  the 
seventy-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  To 
them and to the new, recently appointed co-Chairs for 
the  next  round  of  negotiations  —  Ambassadors  Lana 
Nusseibeh of the United Arab Emirates and Christian 
Braun  of  Luxembourg  —  I  would  like  to  express 
Argentina’s  commitment  to  continuing  to  cooperate 
constructively in order to achieve tangible progress on 
such an important issue.
reiterates 
Argentina 
its  commitment 
While Argentina associates itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Italy on behalf of Uniting 
for Consensus, I would like to highlight a few aspects.
to  a 
negotiations  process  governed  by  the  principles  of 
democracy,  transparency  and  the  spirit  of  flexibility, 
and reaffirms its deep commitment to multilateralism 
as a means for achieving a successful outcome. In that 
connection,  Argentina  believes  that  it  is  necessary  to 
attain results democratically on the basis of the broadest 
possible consensus. As expressed by Italy on behalf of 
the Uniting for Consensus countries, the proposal that 
has  enjoyed  the  greatest  consensus  among  Member 
States  is  the  increase  in  non-permanent  members.  In 
that regard, Argentina continues to be willing to propose 
and find innovative and coherent formulas that ensure 
a more democratic presence, improve the prospects of 
rotating non-permanent members, and reformulate the 
working methods so that the Council can truly become 
more transparent, interactive and inclusive.
Therefore, together with Uniting for Consensus, we 
are ready to continue working in favour of a viable and 
realistic reform, exploring intermediate and alternative 
formulas  that,  while  respecting  the  equality  of  States 
and an adequate rotation, would allow us to reach the 
broadest possible consensus. In that respect, we believe 
that proposals for Council reform that envisage longer 
terms  for  non-permanent  members,  their  re-election 
or  a  combination  of  the  two  would  enjoy  the  general 
consensus  that  is  so  critical.  Argentina  trusts  that 
all  delegations  will  show  the  same  commitment 
to  multilateralism 
through  concrete  actions  and 
leadership, according to their individual capacities, in 
order to make progress, now that the tenth anniversary 
of the intergovernmental negotiations is drawing near.
As  indicated  by  Italy  on  behalf  of  Uniting  for 
Consensus,  there  is  also  consensus  on  the  need  to 
redress  the  underrepresentation  of  certain  regions, 
especially  the  African  continent.  The  Uniting  for 
Consensus proposal addresses that concern and is the 
only  compromise  proposal  presented  in  recent  years 
18-39080
19/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
that seeks, in a balanced and fair manner, to tackle the 
aspirations expressed by the various groups involved in 
these deliberations.
and  trust  that,  through  your  leadership,  considerable 
progress will be made in moving the intergovernmental 
negotiations process forward.
With  regard  to  the  right  of  veto,  Argentina  has 
historically  opposed  such  a  privilege,  which  we  and 
others consider to be a violation of the principle of the 
sovereign equality of States. Our country has defended 
that principle since the Organization’s very inception, 
and has reiterated it continually since the beginning of 
the negotiations process for Security Council reform.
Allow  me  also  to  congratulate  the  incoming 
co-Chairs,  Mrs.  Lana  Nusseibeh  and  Mr.  Christian 
Braun,  on  assuming  the  important  and  challenging 
role of facilitating the intergovernmental negotiations 
during 
incoming 
co-Chairs can once again count on my delegation’s full 
support and cooperation.
the  seventy-third  session.  The 
The sovereign equality of States can be ensured only 
if  all  Member  States  have  access  to  a  non-permanent 
seat on the Security Council, thus avoiding privileges 
for only a few countries. The proposal seeks to promote 
regional representation by adjusting the ratios of each 
regional group to ensure more equitable representation. 
Argentina maintains, however, that the inclusion of new 
permanent members will not ensure the participation of 
countries that are not represented on the Council today. 
The  only  way  to  achieve  that  objective  is  through 
a  system  based  on  elections,  where  the  will  of  those 
represented lends legitimacy to their representatives.
The improvement of the Council’s working methods 
continues to be of paramount importance for Argentina. 
We  have  taken  every  opportunity  to  encourage  the 
Council  to  work  in  an  open  and  transparent  manner 
and  to  be  accountable  for  its  actions  to  the  entire 
Organization.  In  that  regard,  Argentina  hopes  that 
the  principles  of  democracy  and  accountability  will 
continue to guide the process during the next round of 
negotiations, encouraging the broadest participation of 
Member States.
In  conclusion,  Argentina  reiterates  and  reaffirms 
its  willingness  to  consider  with  an  open  mind  any 
proposal that respects the principles set by the General 
Assembly, and hopes that the next round of negotiations 
will  be  able  to  fully  address  the  five  dimensions  of 
Security Council reform in order to achieve satisfactory 
results for all parties involved.
Mr.  Matjila  (South  Africa):  We  welcome  the 
convening  of  the  timely  and  relevant  debate  on  the 
question  of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase 
in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other 
matters related to the Security Council. We appreciate, 
Madam President, that you have identified the reform 
of the Security Council as one of the key priorities of 
your presidency. I would therefore like to assure you of 
my delegation’s unwavering support in that endeavour 
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Saint  Vincent 
and  Grenadines  on  behalf  of  the  L.69  group  and 
of  Sierra  Leone  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States,  respectively.  We  wish  to  make  the  following 
additional remarks.
This  year  marks  53  years  since  the  first  and 
only  expansion  of  the  Security  Council.  That  limited 
expansion  led  to  an  increase  in  the  non-permanent 
membership  category  only,  while  the  vast  majority 
of  our  Organization’s  members  remained  excluded 
from  the  Council’s  permanent  membership  category. 
It  has  been  26  years  since  the  adoption  of  resolution 
47/62,  which  initiated  the  General  Assembly  process 
for  dealing  with  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
in  the  comprehensive  manner  that  we  had  set  out  to 
undertake.  This  year  marks  exactly  one  decade  since 
the start of the intergovernmental negotiations process 
and 13 years since the 2005 World Summit Outcome, 
which unanimously agreed on the early reform of the 
Security  Council.  It  is  with  deep  regret  that,  despite 
those  efforts,  the  reform  process  of  the  Security 
Council has not produced any results.
South Africa urges all Member States to redouble 
their  efforts  and  to  exercise  the  necessary  political 
will in order to reinvigorate the negotiations with the 
mandated aim of achieving the reform of the Security 
Council in an inclusive manner. In that regard, South 
Africa firmly believes that continued, direct, enhanced 
and  constructive  engagement  by  all  Member  States 
is required.
In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  propose  the 
following.  First,  we  join  other  Member  States  in 
calling  for  the  start  of  text-based  negotiations  and 
the  establishment  of  a  road  map  with  clear  and 
implementable 
immediate 
normalization  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process. It is important to underscore the fact that 164 
frames 
time 
for 
the 
20/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
out of the 193 countries of the United Nations want the 
immediate commencement of text-based negotiations. 
That overwhelming number represents more than 80 per 
cent of the Organization’s membership and comprises 
all the regions of the United Nations, the small island 
developing  States  and  some  of  the  members  of  the 
permanent five. That vital point cannot be ignored.
the 
Secondly, 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
process  need  not  be  reinvented.  The  current  revised 
document  on  the  negotiations,  produced  during  the 
seventy-second  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  is 
a positive step on which we could build. In our view, 
the revised document is not definitive but it is a step 
closer  towards  the  next  logical  step  of  give-and-take 
negotiations. South Africa would welcome the accurate 
inclusion  of  the Ezulwini  Consensus  in  the revised 
document, in line with the overwhelming support that 
the  Common  African  Position  has  received  thus  far. 
We  also  strongly  advocate  for  the  expansion  of  both 
the  permanent  and  the  non-permanent  membership 
categories  in  order  to  ensure  that  all  the  regions  are 
represented on the Council on an equitable basis.
of  the  Council  to  carry  out  its  mandate,  pursuant  to 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  can  be 
largely 
attributed  to  its  current  configuration.  It  is  for  that 
reason that South Africa calls for urgent practical steps 
to be taken during the current seventy-third session.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  my 
delegation’s commitment to working with you, Madam 
President,  and  other  Member  States  to  ensure  that 
this session of the intergovernmental negotiations is a 
success. We reiterate our call for this session to produce 
a  fair  and  successful  outcome  in  order  to  restore  the 
credibility and legitimacy of the Council as one of the 
critical organs of the United Nations.
Mr. Bessho (Japan): I thank you, Madam President, 
for convening this important meeting.
itself  with 
Japan  fully  aligns 
the  statement 
delivered by Ambassador Syed Akbaruddin, Permanent 
Representative of India, on behalf of the Group of Four. 
Please allow me, however, to make a few remarks in my 
national capacity.
this  year’s 
Thirdly,  ending 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  in  June,  as  in  the  two  previous  sessions, 
would  not  be  an  effective  use  of  time  and  would  not 
provide an adequate opportunity for full discussion. It 
would also create the impression that there is no urgency 
to  this  very  important  and  long-standing  process. 
The  vast  majority  of  our  Organization’s  membership 
continues to hold the view that reform of the Council 
is long overdue.
My  delegation  therefore  wishes  to  emphasize 
and  reiterate  its  urgent  call  for  the  speedy  reform  of 
the  Security  Council.  The  world  and  the  work  of  the 
Council have changed markedly over the past 73 years, 
with an ever-increasing focus on developments on the 
African  continent.  It  is  therefore  our  steadfast  belief 
that it remains an anomaly that the more than 1 billion 
people on our continent remain without a voice in the 
permanent  membership  category  of  the  Council,  a 
central  and  global  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  That 
cannot be justified. The prolonged present composition 
of that organ since the inception of this debate years ago 
will continue to undermine the legitimacy, credibility 
and high standing that we accord it, should we fail to 
urgently implement the necessary and required reforms.
The  current  stalemate  in  the  Council  on  many  of 
the  key  issues  on  its  agenda  and  the  glaring  failure 
This  year  marks  10  years  since  we  began  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  Yet,  in  that  time,  we 
have seen little progress. It is essential for the Security 
Council’s  credibility  that  its  composition  reflect  the 
realities of the twenty-first century. As Prime Minister 
Abe said during the general debate in September,
“in the light of the lack of progress in reforming the 
Security  Council,  the  significance  of  the  United 
Nations in the twenty-first-century world is already 
being severely questioned” (A/73/PV.7, p.43).
I  wish  to  focus  on  four  key  elements  in  my 
remarks today.
that 
First,  Japan  notes  with  satisfaction 
the 
President of the General Assembly has highlighted the 
revitalization of the United Nations as a core item on 
her  agenda,  which,  we  understand,  includes  Security 
Council reform. We welcome the President’s emphasis 
on  that  issue,  and  ask  her  to  exercise  her  leadership 
in  guiding  us  forward  in  the  coming  year.  We  look 
forward  to  cooperating  closely  with  the  co-Chairs, 
whom  the  President  has  just  named  to  oversee  the 
intergovernmental negotiations during this session.
Secondly,  we  strongly  request  the  long-overdue 
commencement of text-based negotiations to be agreed 
to immediately. That is a natural next step to our work 
18-39080
21/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
over the past decade. Negotiating based on a text is the 
way we take action here at the United Nations, and we 
are concerned that, after a decade of intergovernmental 
negotiations,  we  do  not  even  have  a  text  on  which  to 
base  our  negotiations,  which  impairs  our  ability  to 
proceed.  More  than  160  countries  have  expressed 
support  for  text-based  negotiations,  and  we  need  to 
take action accordingly.
Thirdly, we believe that we should continue work 
on the document that we were drafting at the end of the 
previous session. We also reaffirm our support for the 
attribution of views in the text. That will enable us to 
see clearly who made what proposal and, in particular, 
will  ensure  an  accurate  and  appropriate  reflection  of 
the Common African Position in the negotiations. For 
our part, we have long held that the Council should be 
expanded in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories,  a  view  shared  by  a  broad  majority  of  the 
membership.  A  text  that  clearly  reflects  the  positions 
of  all  Member  States  will  allow  us  to  engage  in  the 
give-and-take  discussions  that  will  be  necessary  in 
order to reach an agreement.
believe 
current 
intergovernmental  negotiations  process  should  be 
reviewed.  If  we  need  consensus  for  decision-making, 
it gives a de facto veto over the process to just a few 
countries, which we believe does not represent the will 
of the great majority.
Finally,  we 
that 
the 
This  is  an  inflection  point  for  Security  Council 
reform. If we fail to make significant headway in the 
coming session, I fear that the legitimacy and viability 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  itself 
will  come  into  question.  It  is  urgent  that  this  year’s 
session be a productive one.
In  2020,  we  will  celebrate 
the  seventy-fifth 
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. It is 
our responsibility as Member States to make concrete 
progress  on  Security  Council  reform  in  time  for  that 
milestone. Only through reform can we ensure that the 
Council will maintain the legitimacy it needs in order 
to play its vital role as we move forward.
Lastly,  I  have  to  add  that  it  is  regrettable  that  a 
groundless statement was made about Japan in this Hall 
just a few minutes ago. That statement is irrelevant to 
Security Council reform.
Mr.  Fernández  de  Soto  Valderrama  (Colombia) 
(spoke in Spanish): Colombia associates itself with the 
statement made by Ambassador Maria Angela Zappia, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Italy,  on  behalf  of  the 
Uniting for Consensus group, of which we are a part.
I  would  like  to  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for 
this opportunity to allow the membership to conduct a 
frank dialogue on the now critical enlargement of the 
Security Council, an issue that impacts the functioning, 
representativeness  and  credibility  of 
the  United 
Nations.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  philosophy 
that drives our Organization has been that the collective 
decision-making  process  should  be  oriented  towards 
the greatest possible majority, not towards the granting 
of privileges to a few members.
That  is  why  we  believe  that  the  granting  of  new 
permanent seats with veto rights is not the way to lend a 
more democratic and inclusive character to the Security 
Council. That is why Colombia’s historic position has 
always  been  guided  by  the  democratic  principles  of 
transparency and inclusivity, as stated by Ambassador 
Zappia.  That  is  also  why  Colombia  maintains  that  a 
discussion  on  truly  democratic  and  inclusive  reforms 
requires  the  broadest  possible  consensus,  if  it  is  to 
be  successful.  That  is  why  the  United  for  Consensus 
group  has  always  proposed  an  openness  to  explore 
points  of  convergence  with  the  entire  membership, 
which we can reach only by showing flexibility on an 
ongoing basis.
Certainly, I have no doubt that the question of the 
veto  is  one  of  the  main  elements  that  has  prevented 
progress in the intergovernmental negotiations process 
over the years. On that issue, my country has held its 
principled  position  since  1945,  firmly  rooted  in  the 
sovereign equality of States, and the veto goes against 
that fundamental pillar.
In  that  regard,  our  proposal,  the  proposal  of  the 
United  for  Consensus  group,  seeks  to  ensure  that  the 
Council  is  representative  in  a  way  that  reinforces  its 
effectiveness.  We  believe  that  a  regional  rotation 
based  on  elections  is  a  key  element  in  achieving  that 
objective.  In  that  way,  the  regional  groups  that  are 
clearly  underrepresented  will  have  access  to  the 
Council. Regions such as mine, Latin America and the 
Caribbean,  small  island  developing  States,  the  many 
countries  in  the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States, 
Arab  countries  and  especially  Africa  must  have  new 
seats,  which  would  allow  them  to  see  their  interests 
directly represented in the Council.
22/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
of 
the 
to  make 
enlargement 
is 
intended 
Security 
The 
Council 
it  more 
representative — that is, a body that is capable of acting 
on behalf of the international community in line with the 
guiding principles of the Charter of the United Nations. 
It  could  be  argued  that,  from  a  purely  numerical 
perspective,  over 
the  Council  has 
become  less  representative  of  the  United  Nations 
general membership.
the  years 
A  greater  possibility  for  Member  States  to  sit 
regularly in the Council will also be required. The best 
way to achieve that goal is through an increase in the 
number of elected seats, which is a measure that would 
also make the Security Council more responsible and 
more accountable to the entire Organization. Otherwise, 
we  would  be  making  the  mistake  of  creating  a  more 
exclusive Council, rather than the more inclusive one 
we want, in the midst of an international situation that 
calls on all States to respond to the universal ideals of 
sustainable peace and security and where the actors in 
the Council are regularly accountable to all Members.
My  country,  myself  included,  can  be  counted  on 
to make progress in the work to achieve that Council.
Mr.  Hunter  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  is  pleased  to  continue  this  discussion 
on  Security  Council  reform,  and  we  look  forward 
to  coordinating  closely  on  issues  within  the  group 
handling the intergovernmental negotiations during the 
seventy-third session.
We 
also 
the 
thank 
outgoing 
leadership, 
Ambassador  Nusseibeh  and  Ambassador  Imnadze, 
for  their  stewardship.  Their  efforts  have  resulted  in 
one  of  the  core  documents  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  from 
the  seventy-second  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  —  the  paper  on  the  revised 
elements  of  commonality  and  issues  for  further 
consideration  —  which  has  crystallized  the  areas 
requiring a greater focus in the coming year. The input 
from  Member  States  was  also  critical  to  determining 
how  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  should  best 
approach its work in the year ahead.
In  this  coming  session,  we  look  forward  to 
addressing  the  topic,  as  outlined  by  our  co-Chairs, 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related to the Security Council. We have been very clear 
that  the  United  States  approaches  those  negotiations 
with four core objectives in mind.
take 
First,  we  support  a  modest  expansion  of  the 
Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent 
categories.  Consideration  of  any  new  permanent 
membership  must 
the  ability 
and  willingness  of  candidates  to  contribute  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  It 
must also take into account their willingness to exercise 
the  responsibilities  that  come  with  Security  Council 
membership.  That  includes  an  enhanced  financial 
responsibility as well.
into  account 
Secondly, the United States opposes any change to 
the veto. Any expansion or alteration of the veto is a red 
line for the United States.
Thirdly, the United States remains open to any form 
of negotiation within the intergovernmental negotiations 
framework  —  whether  text-based  or  otherwise  —  as 
long as that format allows for broad consensus. Wide 
agreement across the intergovernmental negotiations is 
the only way that reform will ultimately succeed.
Finally, we seek an effective and efficient Security 
Council.  The  United  States  will  support  only  those 
reforms  that  improve  the  effectiveness  and  efficiency 
of the Council and advance the Council’s core mandate 
of  addressing  challenges  to  international  peace  and 
security.  We  remain  committed  to  a  process  that 
achieves  the  right  reforms,  rather  than  to  a  fixed 
timeline for those reforms.
The  United  States  remains  committed 
to  a 
comprehensive  solution  that  can  secure  the  broadest 
support  of  Member  States.  A  modernized  Council 
should  be  not  only  representative  of  the  twenty-
first  century  but  also  capable  of  responding  to  new 
challenges and be well-positioned to fulfil its mandate 
with regard to the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  In  combination  with  other  appropriate 
Security  Council  reforms,  a  thoughtfully  considered 
enlargement of the Council could help to maintain its 
effectiveness in the long run.
Mr. Ma Zhaoxu (China) (spoke in Chinese): I thank 
you, Madam President, for convening today’s meeting. 
China  welcomes 
the  President’s  appointment  of 
Ambassador Lana Nusseibeh, Permanent Representative 
of the United Arab Emirates, and Ambassador Christian 
Braun,  Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security Council reform. We expect that the co-Chairs 
will  fulfil  their  responsibilities  in  line  with  their 
18-39080
23/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
mandate. China will actively support the co-Chairs in 
the conduct of their work.
During  the  negotiations  at  the  seventy-second 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  Member  States  had 
candid,  patient  and  in-depth  discussions  on  all  five 
clusters of issues concerning Security Council reform, 
as  well  as  their  inherent  interconnectedness.  Better 
mutual understanding, which is necessary for reaching 
the  broadest  possible  consensus,  has  been  achieved. 
China  appreciates  that  fact  and  is  grateful  to  the 
previous co-Chairs, the Permanent Representatives of 
the United Arab Emirates and Georgia, for their efforts.
Security Council reform involves the vital interests 
of all Member States and the long-term development of 
the United Nations. It bears on the future of the global 
collective security system and is an important part of 
the reform of the global governance system. China has 
always supported a reasonable and necessary reform of 
the Council. It is our consistent view that priority should 
be given to increasing the representation and voice of 
developing countries, especially African countries.
Reform  should  enable  more  Member  States, 
small  and  medium-sized  countries, 
particularly 
which account for the majority of the United Nations 
membership, to be more involved in the decision-making 
process of the Council and to play a greater role. The 
only viable way to achieve reform is to pursue decision 
62/557  and  the  consensus  of  Member  States,  while 
seeking the most widely acceptable package that offers 
a solution to the five clusters of issues through extensive 
and democratic consultations within the membership-
driven intergovernmental negotiations process.
Rather 
than  further 
the  process  of  reform, 
attempts to set an artificial timeline aimed at rushing 
through  insufficiently  developed  reform  proposals 
or  to  arbitrarily  launch  text-based  negotiations  when 
the  conditions  are  not  ripe  would  only  undermine 
unity,  while  failing 
the 
underrepresentation  of  developing  countries  in  the 
Security Council.
to  substantially  address 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  process  is  an 
important  platform  for  Member  States  to  exchange 
views  and  reach  greater  mutual  understanding  on 
Security  Council  reform.  It  is  a  credible,  transparent 
and inclusive communication channel. At a time when 
serious  divergences  remain  on  the  issue  of  reform, 
Member  States  should  continue  a  frank,  thorough 
and  in-depth  exchange  of  views  in  order  to  better 
understand  each  other’s  positions.  China  expects  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  to  remain  a  Member 
State-driven  process  aimed  at  seeking  the  broadest 
possible  consensus  that  meets  the  common  interests 
of  all.  China  will  work  with  all  the  other  parties 
and  continue  to  play  a  positive  and  constructive  role 
towards that end.
Mr. Al-Khalifa (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like  to  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for  convening 
this  important  meeting.  We  reiterate  our  support  to 
the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process on Security Council reform.
The State of Qatar aligns itself with the statement 
made on behalf of the Group of Arab States.
The increasing challenges that face the international 
community  in  the  area  of  international  peace  and 
security  compel  Member  States  to  forge  ahead  with 
negotiations  on  comprehensive  and  genuine  reforms 
of  the  Security  Council  aimed  at  rendering  it  more 
capable of dealing with such challenges. Although the 
negotiations process on reforming the Security Council 
started many years ago and despite the complexity of 
the  issues  under  discussion,  the  progress  achieved  so 
far  and  the  elements  of  commonality  that  have  been 
identified,  thanks  to  the  determination  of  all  States, 
call  on  us  to  intensify  our  efforts  and  demonstrate 
more flexibility in the reform process so as to render 
the United Nations stronger and more effective.
Security  Council  reform  remains  a  crucial  issue 
for  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  with  regard 
to its ability to fulfil its mandate, as enshrined in the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  to  become  more 
transparent,  representative  and  effective.  In 
that 
regard, a successful reform process requires adherence 
to the terms of reference of that process, in particular 
the  interrelation  of  all  the  principal  negotiated  issues 
and the common elements among them in accordance 
with decision 62/557, which was adopted by consensus. 
Any attempt, therefore, to reform the Security Council 
will not be successful if it focuses only on one aspect 
and ignores the others.
Against  that  perspective,  the  State  of  Qatar 
supports  a  comprehensive  reform  that  renders  the 
Security  Council  more  inclusive,  democratic  and 
representative  of  all  regions.  The  reform  must  reflect 
the geopolitical realities that exist today, an aspect that 
has been widely stressed during the negotiation process, 
including granting small and medium-sized countries 
24/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
more  opportunities  to  serve  in  an  enlarged  Council. 
Such  reforms  would  strengthen  the  accountability, 
transparency, 
of 
the Council.
effectiveness 
legitimacy 
and 
The  State  of  Qatar  reiterates  that  any  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  must  go  hand  in  hand  with 
improvements in the working methods of the Council 
and 
its  decision-making  process.  Interaction  and 
dialogue with non-Council members through informal 
interactive  meetings  would  therefore  contribute  to 
enhancing 
transparency  of 
the Council.
the  effectiveness  and 
The  State  of  Qatar  reaffirms  that  the  question  of 
the veto power is a crucial issue in the Council reform 
process. Experience has shown that restricting the use 
of the veto power or refraining from using it in cases 
of  atrocity  crimes,  such  as  war  crimes,  genocide  and 
ethnic  cleansing,  helps  to  stop  those  crimes.  We  also 
underscore  the  important  role  played  by  the  General 
Assembly  in  issues  related  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  in  accordance  with 
Article 11 of the Charter, including the submission of 
recommendations to the Council. The complementary 
relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly is therefore vital and of paramount 
importance in efforts to strike a balance in the work of 
the United Nations.
Consistent with that approach, which is enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations, the desired aims 
of  the  reform  require  a  commitment  to  the  principles 
and  purposes  of  the  Charter  in  the  areas  of  peace, 
security, development and human rights. Any violation 
of the Charter and international law weakens the role 
of  the  United  Nations,  undermines  the  credibility  of 
its  bodies  and  adversely  affects  international  efforts 
to  enhance  the  mechanisms  available  to  maintain 
international peace and security. Accordingly, threats 
to the sovereignty of countries, military interventions 
and  the  use  of  force  against  countries  represent  a 
challenge to the mandate of the Security Council and 
the  international  community,  as  well  as  a  flagrant 
violation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
international law and General Assembly and Security 
Council resolutions.
In conclusion, the State of Qatar remains committed 
to  the  mechanisms  of  international  cooperation.  We 
will  participate  positively  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on the reform of the Security Council with 
the  aim  of  making  it  more  efficient  and  accountable, 
while rendering it better able to take timely decisions 
aimed at maintaining international peace and security.
Mrs. Rodríguez Camejo (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
The  Cuban  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute to the work carried out by the Ambassadors of 
the United Arab Emirates and Georgia, who served as 
the  co-Chairs  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
process on Security Council reform during the seventy-
second  session.  We  congratulate 
the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
Luxembourg  for  taking  on  that  responsibility  during 
the current session.
During  the  first  half  of  the  year,  a  total  of  five 
consultations  were  held  within  that  process,  which 
concluded  with  the  adoption,  by  consensus,  of  the 
oral decision of the President of the General Assembly 
renewing the mandate of the process so as to continue 
those negotiations at the seventy-third session. During 
the  consultations, 
the  deep  divergences  among 
delegations  were  evident,  not  only  on  issues  related 
to the five thematic clusters but also on the course of 
action around the negotiations.
In  that  context,  Cuba  reiterates  that  only  through 
debate and negotiations, within the established time and 
frameworks, will it be possible to define a route towards 
a consensus on that reform. To that end, it is essential 
to  analyse  comprehensively,  and  not  separately,  the 
five thematic clusters on Council reform, namely, the 
categories of membership, regional representation, the 
size  of  an  enlarged  Security  Council  and  its  working 
methods, the question of the veto, and the relationship 
between the Council and the General Assembly.
The  update  of  the  paper  on  the  elements  of 
commonality  and  issues  for  further  consideration 
clearly  shows  that  numerous  consultations  are  still 
required  in  order  to  narrow  the  gaps  between  the 
various  positions.  We  reaffirm  the  fundamental  role 
of the General Assembly in the reform of the Security 
Council. Accordingly, all proposals of Member States 
must  be  heard,  analysed  and  included  in  the  basic 
document of the process.
This  meeting  has  demonstrated  the  importance 
of  a  genuine  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that 
would  transform  it  into  an  effective,  transparent  and 
representative body. An essential element of Security 
Council  reform  is  the  modification  of  its  working 
methods. Although documents have been adopted with 
18-39080
25/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
the aim of improving those methods, including the note 
by the President of the Security Council (S/2010/507), 
greater  efforts  are  still  required  in  the  search  for 
effective formulas that ensure the genuine participation 
of Member States in the work and decision-making of 
the Council.
Measures that do not take into account the views of 
all members of that body or, at times, even those of all 
its permanent members have often been adopted. The 
lack  of  transparency  and  the  exclusionary  practices 
are constant traits of the Council’s working dynamics. 
The  Security  Council  must  adjust  its  functions  to 
the  mandate  established  by  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and respect the role, authority and functions of 
the General Assembly.
We share the concerns about the growing tendency 
of the Security Council to consider issues and assume 
functions outside its competence, increasingly usurping 
the role assigned by the Charter to the other organs of 
the United Nations, particularly the General Assembly. 
That trend must cease immediately. Too frequently and 
often  prematurely,  the  Council  has  been  addressing 
issues that do not necessarily pose an immediate threat 
to  international  peace  and  security,  even  invoking 
Chapter VII of the Charter for that purpose.
In accordance with the mandate assigned to it by 
the Charter of the United Nations, the Security Council 
should specifically focus its attention on addressing the 
most urgent problems that threaten international peace 
and  security.  As  set  out  in  the  Charter,  Chapter  VII 
should be invoked only as a last resort. The application 
of  double  standards  and  political  manipulation  in  the 
analysis  of  certain  issues  under  the  consideration  of 
the Council also pose a concern that is shared by many 
delegations. In accordance with Article 24 of the Charter, 
Member States recognize that the Security Council acts 
on their behalf in carrying out its functions. The work 
of the Council is therefore the collective responsibility 
of the States Members of the United Nations, to which 
true participation in the decision-making in the work of 
that body must be ensured.
We object to national agendas and interests being 
imposed as issues for the Council’s attention under the 
false pretext that there exists a threat to international 
peace and security. It is necessary to increase the number 
of public meetings of the Council. Closed meetings and 
informal consultations should be the exception and not 
the rule. In order to increase the transparency and the 
level  of  accountability,  a  final  text  that  contains  the 
definitive  rules  of  procedure  of  the  Security  Council 
should be adopted. It is inconceivable that the Council’s 
rules have remained provisional for more than 70 years. 
The annual reports that the Council is obliged to submit 
to the General Assembly should be genuinely analytical 
and must adequately evaluate performance.
The  question  of  the  veto  is  intrinsically  linked 
to  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  particularly 
the  decision-making  mechanism.  The  veto  is  an 
anachronistic  and  undemocratic  privilege  that  must 
be  eliminated.  Regarding  the  membership  of  the 
Council, Cuba reiterates that it supports the expansion 
of  that  body  in  the  categories  of  both  permanent  and 
non-permanent membership. The main objective of the 
expansion of the Security Council should be to rectify 
the  underrepresentation  of  developing  countries. 
The  main  increase  in  membership  should  therefore 
correspond to an increase in the number of developing 
countries  from  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  America  and 
the Caribbean.
If  the  category  of  permanent  membership  is  not 
expanded and only the number of non-permanent seats 
is increased, the existing gap between permanent and 
non-permanent  membership  will  be  further  widened, 
increasing 
the  disproportionate  representation  of 
developed  and  developing  countries  on  the  Council. 
As  a  consequence,  the  Council  would  become  even 
less 
legitimate 
and effective.
representative  and, 
thereby, 
less 
for  a 
Lastly, I wish to take this opportunity to reiterate 
our  aspiration 
representative,  democratic, 
transparent  and  efficient  Security  Council,  in  which 
the  views  of  all  States  Members  of  the  Organization 
are taken into account, in accordance with the mandate 
of the Charter and the diverse realities of the current 
world. For that purpose, the Organization can count on 
Cuba’s full support.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): At the outset, allow me to 
congratulate  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  the 
United Arab Emirates and Luxembourg, respectively, on 
their appointment as co-Chairs of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform.
My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered by the Ambassador of Italy on behalf of the 
Uniting for Consensus group.
26/28 
18-39080
20/11/2018 
A/73/PV.36
In  your  inaugural  address,  Madam  President,  to 
the General Assembly at its seventy-third session, you 
invoked the Andean principle of minga — a joining of 
ranks  by  the  international  community  —  to  address 
the  complex  and  interconnected  challenges  that  we 
all  confront  today  (see  A/73/PV.6).  We  heard  an 
equally impassioned call for collective action by world 
leaders  during  the  high-level  general  debate  of  the 
General Assembly.
That firm commitment to international cooperation 
based  on  mutual  respect  and  shared  benefit  is  the 
very  quintessence  of  multilateralism,  an  outlook  that 
prizes a spirit of flexibility and compromise to achieve 
the  common  good  and  that  opposes  unilateralist 
approaches,  which  seek  to  achieve  narrow,  self-
serving interests. As the foundation of the rules-based 
international  order,  it  is  imperative  that  the  United 
Nations  remain  fully  imbued  with  those  ideals  and 
continue to be an Organization that does not merely act 
on  behalf  of  Member  States  but  rather  acts  for  them; 
one that not only embraces the spirit of our times, but 
also epitomizes those values.
The  contemporary  reality  is  a  democratic  reality. 
A credible United Nations is therefore a representative 
United  Nations,  reflecting  the  interests  and  views 
of  all  Member  States  —  small,  medium  and  large. 
That is also a point of departure for a comprehensive 
reform of the Security Council and serves as a guiding 
principle for my country and the Uniting for Consensus 
group  in  seeking  a  more  democratic,  representative, 
accountable,  transparent  and  effective  Council.  For 
us, the reform process is therefore not an end in itself; 
it  is  also  a  true  expression  of  our  commitment  to  the 
fundamentals of multilateralism.
As  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  process 
marks  10  years  since  its  establishment,  it  would  be 
appropriate to reflect on the progress achieved so far in 
relation to the goals that we have set ourselves, namely, 
a democratic and representative Council that is in line 
with the ever-changing and dynamic global landscape 
surrounding it. Evidently, while there is consensus on 
expanding  the  non-permanent  category,  fundamental 
questions  and  divisions  persist  on  the  very  need  for 
or  desirability  of  expanding  the  permanent  category. 
The  reasons  for  that  are  more  than  apparent.  New 
permanency  is  seen  as  nothing  but  an  imitation  of 
old  permanency,  for  it  seeks  to  address  the  inherent 
dysfunctions of the Council, stemming from permanent 
membership and the veto, by reinforcing them instead 
of reforming them.
It also undermines the democratic and representative 
nature  of  the  reform  process,  for  it  denies  the  larger 
membership  its  democratic  right  to  hold  Council 
members to account in an environment in which nearly 
one  third  of  the  membership  has  never  served  on  the 
Council. Furthermore, an expansion in the permanent 
category at the cost of non-permanent members would 
also significantly diminish prospects for many smaller 
States,  in  particular  small  island  developing  States, 
to  ever  be  elected  to  the  Council.  Those  that  base 
their claims for permanent seats on the imperative of 
addressing  contemporary  realities  in  fact  offer  fixed 
solutions to transient situations. The question of the veto 
is  another  by-product  of  permanence.  If  the  Council 
cannot  reconcile  the  interests  of  its  five  permanent 
members, how will it cope with the interests of a larger 
permanent membership and still be effective?
If progress is indeed to be made, we must debunk 
the  fallacy  that  expansion  in  the  permanent  category 
is  intrinsic  to  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
The  work  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council  are  not  a 
function of its composition, much less of its permanent 
members.  As  the  historical  record  shows,  it  is  the 
non-permanent  members 
traditionally 
championed  greater  inclusiveness  and  transparency 
in  the  work  of  the  Council,  especially  within  the 
framework  of  its  provisional  rules  of  procedure.  It  is 
also in the non-permanent category that the Council’s 
failure to be representative can be addressed.
that  have 
A solution that offers more seats to all the regions 
provides  a  better  opportunity  for  all  Member  States, 
including  cross-regional  and  subregional  groups, 
to  serve  on  the  Council.  That  is  why  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  (UFC)  group  is  proposing  a  significant 
increase in the number of elected seats for all regional 
groupings,  especially  for  Africa.  It  also  puts  into 
perspective our firm opposition to the creation of new 
permanent  seats.  Fresh  chains  of  inherited  privilege 
would  invariably  threaten,  not  strengthen,  norms 
of  democracy,  accountability  and  transparency  in 
the Council.
What is required now to move the reform process 
forward  is  to  identify  our  convergences  and  build  on 
such  common  ground.  Finding  that  common  ground 
requires flexibility and compromise on the part of all 
sides.  There  are,  after  all,  no  procedural  quick  fixes 
18-39080
27/28
A/73/PV.36 
20/11/2018
that  can substitute  for  or  sidestep  the need  to  forge  a 
real consensus. Unless we are willing to go that extra 
mile, progress will remain elusive. The UFC not only 
has lived by those ideals but will continue to be guided 
by  them  in  its  engagement  with  efforts  to  achieve  a 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council, one that 
takes into account the positions of all Member States. 
Anything less would be regression, not reform. After all, 
the burden of a large, unwieldy and inefficient Council 
confounded  by  an  enlarged  clique  is  an  outcome  that 
the  international  community  neither  seeks  nor  would 
be prepared to support.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
28/28 
18-39080
