United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
15th plenary meeting
Saturday, 29 September 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.15
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Gueguen 
(France), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Address by Mr. Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov, 
President of Turkmenistan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
of Turkmenistan.
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President 
of  Turkmenistan,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Gurbanguly 
Berdimuhamedov,  President  of  Turkmenistan,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Berdimuhamedov  (spoke  in  Russian): 
I would first like to congratulate Ms. María Fernanda 
Espinosa Garcés on her election to the post of President 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session, 
and to wish her success in her important work. I would 
also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second  session,  for  his  skilled  and  effective 
efforts in the position.
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
taking  place  against  a  background  of  complex  trends 
in  international  politics.  In  spite  of  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community,  particularly 
the 
through 
United  Nations,  the  situation  in  a  number  of  regions 
around the world remains very difficult. Conflict-prone 
areas have spread, while at the same time the general 
level  of  trust  and  mutual  understanding  in  our  views 
on the pathways and prospects for global development 
has fallen. In such circumstances, the issue of ensuring 
comprehensive,  solid  and  long-term  security  becomes 
all too apparent and pertinent, laying the responsibility 
for the destiny of humankind at the door of every State.
We believe that the United Nations is called on to play 
the main and decisive role in preserving the foundations 
of our international order on the basis of the principles 
of  mutual  respect,  equality  and  peaceful  political 
dialogue.  There  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  the  legitimacy 
of  its  mission.  It  is  the  only  universal  international 
organization designed to ensure multilateral cooperation 
aimed  at  strengthening  international  security  and 
sustainable  development.  Turkmenistan  believes  that 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  should  help 
to  resolve  the  crisis  of  trust  and  strengthen  mutual 
understanding among the States Members of the United 
Nations.  In  that  regard  Turkmenistan  is  launching  an 
initiative  marking  2019  as  a  year  of  peace  and  trust. 
Our  initiative  proposes  developing  specific  measures 
aimed at reducing tensions and promoting the peaceful 
political  and  diplomatic  resolution  of  disputes  and 
clashes by adopting responsible and balanced decisions.
Ensuring  long-term  security  is  a  key  issue  for 
Central  Asian  States,  and  one  of  the  most  important 
issues  on  the  regional  agenda  is  the  fight  against 
terrorism. With regard to ensuring security and stable 
development  in  the  Central  Asian  States,  cooperation 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30196 (E)
*1830196*

A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
on  disarmament  matters,  combating  drug  trafficking 
and multilateral economic support for Afghanistan are 
no less important. In that regard we believe it is crucial 
to involve Afghanistan in implementing major energy, 
transport  and  communications  projects  as  a  full-
fledged  partner.  We  see  that  issue  as  one  of  strategic 
importance for Afghanistan and its role in regional and 
global  processes,  and  one  that  will  help  the  Afghan 
people’s  prosperity  and  well-being  to  flourish.  We 
are working steadily towards that goal. My country is 
working to implement the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan-India  pipeline  project,  building  a  power 
supply line and a fibre-optic communications network 
with  the  support  of  international  partners  and  major 
financial  institutions.  A  new  railway  leading  towards 
Afghanistan has also been completed. We continue to 
provide  Afghanistan  with  humanitarian  assistance  by 
building  social  facilities,  sending  humanitarian  aid 
convoys  and  training  qualified  national  specialists 
for  various  sectors  of  Afghanistan’s  economic  and 
social arenas.
Turkmenistan participated actively in the drafting 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
made  a  number  of  specific  proposals.  Following  the 
adoption at the World Summit of the 2030 Agenda and 
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015 (see 
A/70/PV.4),  our  country  was  one  of  the  first  nations 
to  begin  adapting  its  national  plans  and  social  and 
economic  development  programmes  in  line  with  the 
Sustainable Development Goals. In that regard we have 
established  an  appropriate  permanent  mechanism  for 
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations.  Turkmenistan’s 
implementation  of  the  SDGs  focuses  particularly  on 
social  aspects.  That  means  such  important  issues 
as  ensuring  food  security  and  improving  nutrition, 
comprehensively  promoting  a  healthy  way  of  life, 
ensuring  full  gender  equality  by  guaranteeing  rights 
and opportunities for all women and girls and creating 
the conditions for comprehensive, equitable and high-
quality education.
We  are  also  devoting  a  great  deal  of  attention  to 
achieving  the  goal  of  ensuring  the  availability  and 
intelligent  use  of  water  resources  and  sanitation  for 
all. Turkmenistan firmly adheres to the principle that 
water  is  the  common  heritage  of  every  people  on  our 
planet and that equal and fair access to clean drinking 
water is a fundamental human right. The development 
of States on the economic and social fronts, as well as 
their peoples’ levels of well-being and quality of life, is 
directly  dependent  on  their  access  to  water  resources 
and  ability  to  use  them  effectively.  Equal  rights, 
mutual  respect  and  responsibility  should  therefore 
be  the  main  criteria  determining  relations  among  the 
States  of  Central  Asian.  In  consistently  taking  that 
position, Turkmenistan has always declared that issues 
related  to  water  and  energy  in  our  region  should  be 
resolved, first, on a basis of generally accepted norms 
of  international  law;  secondly,  by  taking  the  interests 
of  each  country  into  account;  and  thirdly,  with  the 
active participation of international organizations and 
the United Nations in particular. That is our principled 
position, and based on it we will continue working to 
establish  effective  negotiating  mechanisms  between 
States and international entities with a view to arriving 
at a coordinated approach. I believe firmly that this is 
the only way we can achieve positive results and ensure 
a stable and sustainable balance of interests.
One  of  the  major  topics  of  cooperation  between 
the  countries  of  our  region  and  the  international 
community  is  the  problem  of  saving  the  Aral  Sea.  It 
has  long  been  clear  that  its  preservation  cannot  be 
considered merely a problem internal to the region. If 
we  are  to  succeed  in  finding  a  solution  to  it  we  need 
the  help  of  the  world  community  and  an  innovative, 
comprehensive  international  approach  involving  the 
active  and  systematic  participation  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  that  regard,  Turkmenistan  has  begun  to 
implement  an  initiative  formulating  a  special  United 
Nations  programme  for  the  problem  of  the  Aral  Sea 
basin  and  establishing  it  as  a  specific  separate  area 
of  the  Organization’s  work.  I  urge  Member  States 
to  support  our  proposal,  for  which  the  Assembly’s 
resolution 72/273, on “Cooperation between the United 
Nations and the International Fund for Saving the Aral 
Sea”, adopted by consensus on 12 April, could serve as 
a good basis.
Another major issue is the Caspian Sea. The signing 
by the Heads of States of the Caspian Sea on 12 August 
of the Convention on the Legal Status of the Caspian 
Sea has opened up the prospects for transforming the 
Caspian  Sea  region  into  an  internationally  important 
strategic transit and energy hub, as well as an area for 
broad  investment,  trade  and  economic  activity  and 
cooperation.  Turkmenistan  is  ready  for  meaningful 
discussions with all interested parties on implementing 
projects  in  those  areas  that  are  fully  economically 
and commercially feasible, beneficial for all potential 
to 
participants,  capable  of  significantly  helping 
2/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
strengthen the security of the continent and long-term 
in nature. It is no exaggeration to say that investing in 
such projects is undoubtedly an investment in the future.
We  greatly  appreciate  the  effective  participation 
of the United Nations specialized agencies represented 
in  Turkmenistan  and  in  our  country’s  life,  dynamic 
development  and  people’s  welfare,  and  I  would  like 
to express our sincere gratitude to their staff for their 
selfless  work.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Secretary-
General António Guterres for his tireless personal focus 
on United Nations cooperation with Turkmenistan and 
his support to our initiatives and endeavours.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of Turkmenistan for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Jan Hamáček, Deputy Prime 
Minister, Minister of the Interior and Acting Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic.
Mr.  Hamáček  (Czech  Republic):  Despite  all  our 
efforts, 100 years after the end of the First World War 
we  find  ourselves  in  a  world  in  which  lasting  peace 
has  not  yet  been  universally  secured  and  people  are 
still  dying  in  violent  conflicts.  The  raison  d’être  of 
the  United  Nations  is  the  protection  of  peace,  human 
rights, justice and social progress. Those values are not 
a Western instrument. They form universal ideals that 
all  of  us,  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations, 
should strive for together.
including  gender 
We  face  many  challenges  in  areas  such  as  the 
dignity of individuals, global prosperity, and sustainable 
development, 
inequality,  youth 
unemployment,  global  health  threats,  climate  change, 
violent extremism, terrorism, forced displacement and 
uncontrolled  migration.  Furthermore,  multilateralism 
and  the  rules-based  system,  which  benefit  everyone 
and  have  long  held  many  of  those  threats  at  bay,  are 
increasingly  being  undermined  and  questioned.  One 
way that we as policymakers can tackle those challenges 
is  by  working  to  realize  the  difficult  structural  and 
political reforms of the United Nations so as to promote 
shared  global 
cooperation and the restoration of common values.
responsibility, 
robust 
international 
We  all  understand  the  importance  of  reforming 
the  Security  Council  in  order  to  reflect  the  realities 
of  today’s  world.  In  recent  years,  unfortunately,  the 
Council  has  been  characterized  by  blocking  tactics 
rather than cooperation. Its failure to act on the world’s 
worst  atrocities  is  clearly  visible  in  several  brutal 
ongoing conflicts, from Syria to Yemen. The Secretary-
General  has  already  embarked  on  the  challenging 
endeavour  of  reforming  the  United  Nations,  and  the 
Czech Republic fully supports his efforts. Making the 
Organization  more  effective  through  much-needed 
reforms in the areas of peace and security, management 
and  the  development  system  will  make  the  United 
Nations truly relevant to all people and help promote a 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable world. Accordingly, 
we  should  endorse  the  Secretary-General’s  work  and 
give  his  proposals,  including  their  budgetary  and 
financial implications, the strongest possible support.
The  vital  point  of  the  Secretary-General’s  reform 
agenda is its focus on the prevention of conflicts. All of 
us should work tirelessly work to ensure that crises are 
contained before they break out and that post-conflict 
countries are stabilized for the long term. For effective 
conflict prevention, we should adopt a comprehensive 
approach  to  peace  and  security  that  treats  climate 
change  as  a  security  problem  while  also  advancing 
sustainable development and promoting human rights.
The  Czech  Republic  took  great  pride  in  having 
the honour of holding the presidency of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  during  its  2017  session.  I  would 
like  to  thank  everyone,  Member  States  as  well  as  the 
Secretariat,  for  their  excellent  cooperation.  It  was  an 
enlightening  experience,  not  just  for  our  presidency 
team but for our entire Administration.
In  the  context  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals,  which  are  the  foundation  of  our  concerted 
efforts to promote sustainable development, the Czech 
Republic  will  continue 
to  champion  Sustainable 
Development  Goal  16,  not  only  as  a  follow-up  to 
our  presidency  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
but  mainly  as  a  cornerstone  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  We  consider  peace,  justice 
and  functioning  institutions  our  priority  and  a  solid 
base  on  which  a  sustainable  future  for  everyone  can 
be  built.  In  the  context  of  sustainable  development, 
it  is  also  crucial  for  the  United  Nations  to  seek  more 
18-30196
3/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
synergies  among  its  humanitarian,  development  and 
security activities.
Apart  from  conflict  prevention,  there  should  be 
a  special  focus  on  post-conflict  stabilization.  Those 
efforts  should  be  visible  in  the  field.  To  achieve  that, 
more cooperation among the United Nations specialized 
agencies  is  required,  as  well  as  broader  coordination 
with and between the Member States.
History teaches us that respect for human rights is 
the best way to prevent conflict and violence. Efforts 
to  realize  human  rights  for  all  are  the  best  possible 
investment  for  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  future. 
Lasting peace and sustainable development cannot be 
achieved  when  human  rights  are  abused  or  violated. 
And yet the human rights pillar of the United Nations 
is chronically underfunded and often overlooked. That 
must change. Human rights are central to my historical 
experience. The promotion of human rights, both in the 
bilateral context and on the global scene, remains one 
of our long-term foreign-policy priorities.
Our efforts to prevent conflict and instability would 
not  be  complete  without  mentioning  denuclearization 
and  the  fight  against  terrorism.  The  Czech  Republic, 
with its Embassy in Pyongyang, is deeply interested in 
improving the situation on the Korean peninsula. That 
is why we are following both the inter-Korean dialogue 
and the dialogue between the United States of America 
and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  with 
raised expectations and at the highest level.
We  need  a  resolute  and  coordinated  approach 
to  countering  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  just  as  we  do  in  fighting  terrorism. 
Although the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant has 
been defeated in large swaths of territory in Syria and 
Iraq, we are aware that it is still active and that other 
terrorist  organizations  are  also  operating  worldwide. 
We must take further steps in the area of international 
law and finally conclude a comprehensive convention 
on international terrorism. As President Miloš Zeman 
suggested at the general debate of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-first  session  in  2016  (see  A/71/PV.12), 
we  call  for  an  internationally  recognized  definition 
of 
the  criminal 
responsibility of terrorists worldwide and enable us to 
hold them accountable.
that  will  emphasizee 
terrorism 
invasion  still  resonates  strongly,  and  not  just  in  the 
Czech Republic, as the moment where many lost faith 
in the promises of a better world preached by the Soviet 
Union. That historical time period provides lessons that 
are still relevant today, and its echoes can be heard in 
incidents that continue to occur in the world around us.
First,  it  is  still  not  a  given  that  all  countries, 
including  those  in  Eastern  Europe,  have  the  right  to 
choose  their  foreign-policy  orientation  without  their 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  being  threatened. 
In that context, I would like to once again remind the 
Assembly  that  the  annexation  of  Crimea  represents  a 
blatant violation of international law.
Secondly, it should not be forgotten that the use of 
force is allowed by the Charter of the United Nations 
only  in  self-defence  and  when  authorized  by  the 
Security Council under Chapter VII of the Charter. The 
United  Nations  is  the  sole  guarantor  of  international 
peace and security. It is only through collective means 
and within the rules-based international order that the 
peace and security of all our nations can be achieved.
Thirdly, in cases where States and the international 
community fail in their shared responsibility to protect 
people  from  atrocities,  it  is  imperative  to  establish 
accountability  for  serious  violations  of  international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights.  Accordingly,  the 
Czech Republic firmly supports international criminal 
justice,  and  in  particular  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC).  We  welcome  the  activation  of  the  ICC’s 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression,  which  we 
consider to be a deterrent ensuring that such crimes will 
not be committed in future. In certain cases, however, 
the ICC does not have jurisdiction, but that should not 
be  seen  as  a  loophole  through  which  perpetrators  of 
atrocities may escape accountability.
For  crimes  committed  in  Syria,  we  support,  both 
politically  and  through  financial  contributions,  the 
so-called  International,  Impartial  and  Independent 
Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation and Prosecution 
of  Persons  Responsible  for  the  Most  Serious  Crimes 
under International Law Committed in the Syrian Arab 
Republic since March 2011. Not only is accountability a 
way to bring justice to those suffering in conflicts, it is 
also a path towards reconciliation and a crucial means 
for preventing atrocities from recurring.
This  year  the  Czech  Republic  commemorates  the 
fiftieth anniversary of the day that Warsaw Pact troops 
invaded  Czechoslovakia.  The  experience  of  the  1968 
While the newly independent Czech Republic was 
admitted to the United Nations 25 years ago, in 1993, 
this year we are also celebrating the centenary of our 
4/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
modern statehood and independence, as Czechoslovakia 
was born out of the crucible of the First World War in 
1918.  The  founder  and  first  President  of  my  country, 
Tomáš  Garrigue  Masaryk,  rightly  posited  that  States 
are  sustained  only  by  those  ideals  from  which  they 
were  born.  The  same  must  be  true  of  the  United 
Nations. We should therefore strive to reinvigorate the 
founding ideals of this noble Organization. Only then 
will we succeed in fulfilling the theme of its seventy-
third  session,  making  it  truly  relevant  and  helpful  to 
all people.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Saleumxay  Kommasith, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic.
Mr.  Kommasith 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
congratulating  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés 
on  her  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at its seventy-third session. It is a great pleasure to see 
a woman presiding over the Assembly. I want to assure 
her  of  our  full  support  and  cooperation  and  wish  her 
every success in carrying out her noble duty. I would 
also like to congratulate His Excellency Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák  on  his  successful  completion  of  his  tenure  as 
President of the Assembly at its seventy-second session.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
which  promises  to  leave  no  one  behind,  encompasses 
all  of  the  prerequisites  for  building  a  peaceful  and 
prosperous  world.  In  order  to  meet  the  lofty  goals 
of  the  2030  Agenda,  national  Governments  and  the 
international community have to work hand in hand for 
its  implementation.  That  requires  international  peace 
and security, which creates an environment conducive to 
economic growth and social progress while enhancing 
international cooperation and assistance, with priority 
given to the most vulnerable groups of countries, which 
are the least-developed countries (LDCs), land-locked 
developing countries and small island developing States.
Soon  after  the  adoption  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  in  order  to  realize  it  and 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the 
Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
incorporated  the  SDG  targets  into  its  eighth  national 
five-year  socioeconomic  development  plan,  for  the 
period  from  2016  to  2020.  Given  our  specific  needs, 
we  have  gone  the  extra  mile  by  adopting  a  national 
sustainable  development  goal  18,  “Lives  safe  from 
unexploded ordnance”, in order to address the problems 
caused by unexploded ordnance.
At the High-level Political Forum in July, the Lao 
Government  presented  its  first  voluntary  national 
review  on  SDG  implementation,  which  has  seen 
important  progress  and  emerging  constraints  in  the 
past few years. While we have seen positive momentum 
towards  achieving  the  SDGs,  bringing  us  closer  to 
graduation from our LDC status, we remain vulnerable 
to external shocks. This year we have been witnessing 
an  increasing  intensity  in  climate  change  and  natural 
disasters, causing heavy losses and damage to the lives 
and  property  of  people  in  various  parts  of  the  world. 
The Lao People’s Democratic Republic is no exception. 
We  have  been  severely  affected  by  natural  disasters, 
especially  extensive  flooding  across  the  country,  the 
worst-ever  natural  disaster  in  our  history.  To  date 
2,409  of  8,464  villages  in  115  of  148  districts  have 
been affected by massive flooding. The exact costs of 
the losses and damage are as yet unknown, as a post-
disaster needs assessment will be conducted in the next 
few months. The calamity has had a severe impact on 
the livelihoods of people in the affected areas.
including 
With  the  assistance  of  friendly  countries  and 
international  organizations, 
international 
non-governmental  organizations  and  individuals,  the 
Lao  Government  has  been  providing  those  affected 
with emergency relief in the form of temporary shelters, 
food and health care. I would therefore like to take this 
opportunity  to  express  our  heartfelt  appreciation  and 
gratitude  to  the  friendly  countries  and  international 
organizations  that  have  given  us  valuable  assistance 
during this difficult time.
Against that backdrop, it is more crucial than ever 
for world leaders to honour their commitments pledged 
under the Paris Agreement. Within the Association of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  great  importance 
has  been  accorded  to  the  issue  of  climate  change 
and  disaster-risk  management.  We  also  very  much 
appreciate the continued support of the United Nations 
for the ASEAN-United Nations Joint Strategic Plan of 
Action  on  Disaster  Management,  for  the  period  from 
2016  to  2020,  which  is  designed  to  address  climate 
change  and  disaster  management  and  respond  to  the 
effects  of  the  changing  climate  on  socioeconomic 
development in years to come.
Addressing  the  scourge  of  transnational  crime 
requires concerted effort at all levels. In that context, 
18-30196
5/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
the Lao People’s Democratic Republic remains seriously 
committed  to  working  closely  with  the  international 
community on the fight against illicit drugs, the illegal 
trade  in  wildlife  and  trafficking  in  persons,  among 
other  things.  The  Government  has  adopted  a  drug-
control master plan for the period from 2016 to 2020, 
as we implement the ASEAN Work Plan on Securing 
Communities against Illicit Drugs for the period from 
2016 to 2025 so as to realize the vision of a drug-free 
ASEAN  as  one  of  the  region’s  high-priority  agenda 
items. We are also pleased to support the Global Call 
to Action on the World Drug Problem initiated by the 
President of the United States.
The  Lao  Government  has  spared  no  effort  in 
combating the heinous and inhumane crime of human 
trafficking  by  adopting  various  laws,  regulations  and 
national action plans to combat trafficking in persons 
and  by  becoming  a  signatory  to  numerous  regional 
agreements  and  memorandums  of  understanding, 
including the ASEAN Convention against Trafficking 
in  Persons,  Especially  Women  and  Children,  which 
seek to prevent and combat human trafficking.
The  United  Nations  needs  to  be  strengthened  so 
that it can respond effectively to the challenges we face 
today.  We  are  pleased  with  the  Secretary-General’s 
initiatives  on  reforming  and  repositioning  the  United 
Nations,  with  the  aim  of  improving  the  capacity  of 
the  United  Nations  to  meet  the  needs  in  the  current 
environment. In that context, we reiterate our view that 
development  issues  must  remain  a  core  and  integral 
part of the United Nations and its States Members and 
a  top  priority  for  them,  alongside  the  promotion  of 
international peace, security and human rights and an 
emphasis  on  the  importance  of  enhancing  the  United 
Nations system’s ability to deliver on its mandate.
We  are  concerned  about  the  continued  decline  in 
contributions  to  the  core  funding  of  United  Nations 
development  agencies  and 
the  United  Nations 
Development Programme on the ground. My delegation 
would  therefore  like  to  call  once  again  on  donor 
countries  and  development  partners  to  fulfil  their 
official development assistance commitment of at least 
0.7 per cent of their gross national income.
We  all  acknowledge  that  peace  and  security  are 
prerequisites for the socioeconomic development of all 
nations. We must therefore maintain and promote peace 
and security at all costs. Past experience has shown that 
settling disputes by peaceful means is the best way to 
ensure the durable peace that is essential for a nation’s 
sustainable development. Accordingly, it is incumbent 
on  the  international  community  to  continue  to  build 
mutual  trust  and  confidence  in  an  effort  to  jointly 
overcome  their  current  challenges  and  seek  peaceful 
solutions  to  the  disputes  and  conflicts  that  we  are 
witnessing in various regions of the world.
Against  that  backdrop,  we  welcomed  the  recent 
historic  summit  in  June  between  the  leaders  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United 
States  of  America,  which  constituted  an  important 
milestone  in  the  relations  between  the  two  countries. 
We  also  welcomed  the  third  summit  between  the 
leaders  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  with  the  objective  of 
striving not only to improve bilateral relations between 
the  two  countries  but  also  to  address  the  issue  of  the 
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula. We hope that 
such positive momentum will be strengthened, thereby 
contributing to the maintenance of peace and stability 
and denuclearization in the region as a whole.
Despite those positive developments on the Korean 
peninsula,  my  delegation  is  concerned  about  the  lack 
of progress on the Palestinian question. We hope that 
its long-overdue resolution can be achieved by peaceful 
means with the goal of arriving at a two-State solution 
whereby  Palestine  and  Israel  can  live  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security  within  internationally  recognized 
borders,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions.
On  another  note,  in  an  era  of  interdependence, 
international  cooperation  and  engagement  are  key 
factors to peaceful and mutually beneficial coexistence. 
Enforced  isolation  and  the  imposition  of  sanctions 
on  any  country  will  not  necessarily  benefit  the 
international community. On the contrary, it will result 
in losses for all and increased hostility. My delegation 
therefore  urges  for  an  end  to  the  embargo  on  Cuba. 
We  also  want  to  call  on  the  international  community 
to  uphold  and  further  strengthen  multilateralism  that 
promotes cooperation rather than confrontation, which 
remains  one  of  the  core  values  of  our  only  universal 
organization, the United Nations.
Ms. Scott (Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
I would like to conclude by expressing my support 
for the theme of the seventy-third session of the General 
Assembly — “Making the United Nations relevant to all 
people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for 
6/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies” — which 
is indeed pertinent to the current global situation and 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  However,  making  all 
internationally agreed goals and commitments a reality 
requires  strong  political  will  and  firm  commitment 
and  support  to  multilateralism,  particularly  in  terms 
of  making  the  United  Nations  stronger  so  that  it 
can  effectively  serve  and  respond  to  the  needs  of  all 
Member States.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Wilfred Elrington, Attorney General and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize.
Mr. Elrington (Belize): At the outset, I would like 
to express the sympathies of the Government and the 
people of Belize with the Government and the people 
of  Indonesia  in  the  light  of  the  recent  devastating 
earthquake  and  tsunami  that  has  killed  more  than 
400  people.  I  also  want  to  express  our  solidarity 
with  Barbados  and  Saint  Lucia,  fellow  Caribbean 
Community  countries,  which  are  recovering  from 
Tropical  Storm  Kirk,  as  well  as  with  the  countries  of 
the  Eastern  Caribbean  that  have  been  affected  by  an 
earthquake in the past few days.
This year marks the thirty-seventh anniversary of 
Belize’s  independence.  Belizeans  have  now  enjoyed 
almost  four  uninterrupted  decades  of  freedom,  peace 
and  democracy  in  our  sovereign  independent  nation. 
During that period our leaders have succeeded in making 
modest  gains  in  our  nation’s  quest  for  sustainable 
development. They did so notwithstanding the fact that 
our country has been the subject of an active territorial 
claim — a poisoned colonial chalice — that predates our 
independence by approximately a half century. Because 
of  that  claim,  our  nation’s  birth  was  protracted  and 
fraught with difficulty. All Belizeans who are familiar 
with  the  history  of  our  journey  to  independence  give 
the  United  Nations  great  credit  for  it,  and  rightly  so. 
It was resolution 1514 (XV), adopted on 14 December 
1960, that paved the way for all colonial peoples to be 
able  to  make  the  transition  to  independence.  Belize 
is  a  beneficiary  of  that  seminal  resolution  and  of  the 
subsequent United Nations resolutions adopted between 
1971  and  1980  that  mandated  the  British  to  grant  it 
early independence.
On  21  September  1981,  Belize  achieved 
its 
independence,  and  the  United  Nations  immediately 
welcomed our fledgling democratic State as its newest 
Member,  thereby  affirming  its  sovereignty  and  its 
territorial integrity. Yet 37 years later the Guatemalan 
territorial claim remains unresolved. Indeed, efforts to 
resolve it before the International Court of Justice eluded 
the British Government for nearly 80 years. However, 
Belizeans will soon — and thankfully — decide whether 
the  current  opportunity  to  bring  about  a  definitive 
settlement of the claim, which has long sown fear in the 
hearts of all Belizeans and has hamstrung our nation’s 
development potential, will in fact be seized.
ratified 
the  decision  of 
The significance of the 15 April 2017 Guatemalan 
referendum,  which 
the 
Guatemalan  Government  in  2008  to  have  its  claim 
relating  to  my  country  adjudicated  by  the  Court, 
should not be lost. For, in carrying out the referendum, 
Guatemala  gave  effect  to  its  obligation  under  the 
special  agreement  that  both  our  countries  signed  in 
good faith. At the same time, there remains one pending 
issue  for  us  to  agree  on.  In  continuing  that  spirit  of 
good faith, we urge our neighbour Guatemala to agree 
on  a  procedure  or  protocol  for  confidence-building 
measures on the Sarstoon River, our southern boundary 
with that country, in order to facilitate the management 
of  incidents  of  the  kind  that  gave  rise  to  heightened 
tensions between our two countries in 2015 and 2016.
Belizeans are now on the cusp of a truly rare and 
felicitous  moment  in  our  nation’s  history.  Our  voting 
public,  in  the  finest  democratic  fashion,  now  has  a 
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to determine the fate of 
our country. The Government of Belize has designated 
10 April 2019 as the date for our national referendum. 
On that day all registered voters will be entitled to cast 
their ballots, thereby signalling either their consent to 
or  rejection  of  having  the  Guatemalan  claim  resolved 
once and for all by the International Court of Justice. In 
preparation for that historic plebiscite, our Government 
has  embarked  on  a  nationwide  public  awareness 
campaign to ensure that all Belizeans are fully informed 
about  the  claim  and  why  it  should  be  referred  to  the 
Court for resolution.
While  working  to  end  the  Guatemalan  claim  and 
thereby enhance our national security, my Government 
continues  to  discharge  its  core  duty  of  promoting 
economic  development,  job  creation,  education  and 
health care for all citizens. To that end, we are making 
major efforts to implement our growth and sustainable 
development  strategy,  which  is  fully  aligned  with  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  that  endeavour 
the  United  Nations  development  system  is  partnering 
18-30196
7/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
with  us 
Development Framework.
through 
the  Multi-country  Sustainable 
We are also working diligently to address the scourge 
of the poverty that persistently afflicts our country and 
our citizens. Current statistics show that approximately 
43 per cent of Belizeans live below the poverty line, with 
16  per  cent  experiencing  extreme  poverty.  Initiatives 
aimed  at  dealing  with  the  problem  include  three  new 
programmes that specifically target indigent families. In 
addition to financial benefits, beneficiaries are provided 
with direct economic, social and psychological support 
as  well  as  job  readiness  courses  to  prepare  them  for 
gainful  employment.  Under  a  food  pantry  programme, 
poor families are also provided with basic food baskets 
at subsidized rates.
An  alarming  knowledge  gap  is  rapidly  widening 
between  the  few  fortunate  Belizeans  who  are  well 
educated,  skilled  and  poised  to  succeed  in  a  fiercely 
competitive,  knowledge-based 
twenty-first  century 
environment  and  the  many  who  are  being  left  behind 
without the skills and wherewithal to obtain employment, 
become self-employed or even to engage legitimately and 
meaningfully in civic life. It is indispensable to Belize’s 
development,  prosperity,  security  and  democracy  that 
we work to close that knowledge gap as soon as possible 
and  ensure  that  all  our  young  people  are  equipped  to 
successfully face the myriad challenges of the twenty-
first century.
To that end, and with a view to increasing access to 
education, our Government is building 35 new schools. 
Since the launch of a high school subsidy, we have seen 
a  discernible  improvement  in  transition  rates  from 
primary  to  secondary  school  for  students  identified 
as  having  academic  or  socioeconomic  challenges.  All 
students in the country’s districts and rural areas with 
the highest incidence of poverty automatically qualify 
for the subsidy. This year the Government is expanding 
its reach with the intention of minimizing the disparity 
in  enrolment  and  achievement  between  students  from 
rural and urban areas.
In addition, the Government is taking new measures 
to assist at-risk young people from coming into conflict 
with our laws. We recently launched the Belize Youth 
Challenge Programme, which concentrates on teaching 
young  people  discipline,  personal  organization 
and  teamwork,  as  well  as  skills  in  technical  and 
vocational areas, and on encouraging them to become 
responsible,  patriotic  and  productive  citizens.  With  a 
view to enhancing the delivery of health services, the 
Government has initiated steps for the construction of a 
modern hospital in the Toledo district.
Next year will mark 25 years of the Organization’s 
support  for  the  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS) 
agenda. Belize joins in the call for renewed commitment 
to  the  special  case  of  SIDS  and  for  systematically 
targeted  support  to  respond  to  their  particular  needs, 
such as those identified by the Caribbean SIDS in the 
San  Pedro  Declaration,  adopted  in  Belize  in  August 
2017. The destructive hurricanes and storms that ravage 
the Caribbean year after year are a constant reminder 
of the true scale of thevulnerability facing SIDS in the 
Caribbean.  We  hope  that  through  the  implementation 
of  his  reform  plan  the  Secretary-General  will  explore 
ways  by  which  the  United  Nations  development 
system can better accelerate the implementation of the 
SIDS agenda.
Our  Government  has  made  building  resilience 
an  integral  part  of  its  development  planning  and  is 
implementing a national climate resilience investment 
plan  to  ensure  that  the  impact  of  climate  change  is 
integrated into national investment planning across all 
sectors and ministries. The Government has also enacted 
mangrove  regulations  and  instituted  an  indefinite 
moratorium on offshore drilling, which marks the first 
time that a developing country has taken such a major 
step to protect its marine resources from oil exploration 
and extraction. Belize will also be banning single-use 
plastics and Styrofoam as of April 2019.
I am happy to share that UNESCO’s World Heritage 
Committee recently  decided  to  remove  the  Belize 
barrier  reef,  the  largest  in  the  western  hemisphere, 
from  the  World  Heritage  in  Danger  list,  after  taking 
into account several measures that our Government has 
implemented to ensure its protection and well-being.
Thanks to its geography, Belize is located along a 
path frequented by criminal elements of every kind as 
they journey from South to North to traffic their illicit 
wares, a fact that has had tragic consequences for the 
peace and safety of Belizeans. Over the past decade the 
problem has led to a dramatic increase in our homicide 
rates, with each year being deadlier than the one before. 
Tackling  transnational  organized  crime  in  Central 
America requires a truly cooperative and collaborative 
approach, along with multilateral support. Thankfully, 
UNICEF, the United Nations Development Programme 
and  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
8/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
have been important and faithful collaborators with our 
Government  in  implementing  programmes  to  address 
underlying  social  causes  and  build  the  capacity  of 
protective and judicial institutions.
What I have spoken of here makes it clear that the 
United Nations is of inestimable value and importance 
to  Belize.  Like  other  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations, Belize is well aware of its limitations, but it is 
not without anxiety that we note the fact that some of 
its core values are under sustained attack, while organs 
that  have  been  painstakingly  erected  to  reinforce  the 
rule  of  law  are  being  derided  and  international  legal 
frameworks  are  being  cast  aside  in  unilateral  acts  of 
political expediency.
Paradoxically, the criticisms and attacks are being 
unleashed at a time when the world is most in need of 
a robust United Nations, as nations large and small are 
being buffeted by catastrophic occurrences, both natural 
and  man-made,  at  a  pace  never  before  witnessed  by 
humankind. While we appreciate the need for reform of 
the institutions of the United Nations, we are therefore 
equally  mindful  of  its  unique  and  invaluable  role  in 
a  world  that  is  becoming  increasingly  more  perilous. 
Belize fears that, if we stand in silence or fail to speak 
out  in  its  defence  and  in  defence  of  multilateralism, 
we  risk  repeating  the  tragedies  of  the  past,  and  we 
forsake the very values that the United Nations stands 
for.  Indeed,  we  forsake  our  very  responsibility  to 
humankind.  History  will  measure  us  by  our  actions, 
not by our words.
Belize  supports  all  initiatives  that  seek  to  put  an 
end  to  the  conflicts  languishing  across  the  globe  that 
lead to senseless death, destruction and suffering. We 
echo the cry of Palestinians for an independent State, 
within  its  1967  borders  and  with  all  attendant  rights. 
We  pray  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  will 
bring a speedy end to Venezuela’s claim over Guyanan 
territory.  Belize  remains  firm  and  unwavering  in  its 
support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
Guyana. We also pray that the civil strife in Venezuela 
will soon end.
Belize  joins  the  call  for  an  end  to  the  unilateral, 
economic, commercial and financial embargo on Cuba 
and  its  people,  which  violates  international  law  and 
serves  no  just  purpose.  The  blockade  has  failed  to 
pressure  the  Government  into  submission.  Indeed,  it 
has had the opposite effect. Leveraging its inexhaustible 
reserves  of  patriotism  and  creativity,  Cuba  has  been 
able to survive and thrive to a degree that has garnered 
international  recognition  for  its  resilience,  its  selfless 
generosity  and  its  signal  gains  in  public  health, 
education  and  the  arts.  Surely  it  is  high  time,  after 
nearly 58 years, to lift the blockade so that Cuba can 
reach the highest level of its extraordinary potential.
In a similar spirit of determination, Belize reiterates 
its plea on behalf of the 23 million people of Taiwan for 
a new approach to Taiwan’s participation in the United 
Nations  system.  Taiwan  is  the  twenty-second-largest 
economy  in  the  world.  It  is  a  vibrant  democracy  that 
has fully embraced international norms and standards. 
Yet, despite global recognition of its successes and the 
readiness  of  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
to  conduct  business  with  this  fast-growing  economy, 
the  Organization  has  cut  them  off.  It  has  gone  so  far 
as to refuse to recognize the legitimacy of Taiwanese 
passports, thereby even preventing Taiwanese tourists 
from  entering  its  premises  as  visitors.  It  effectively 
uses resolution 2758 (XXXVI), of 1971, as a political 
and humanitarian embargo on Taiwan. In our view, no 
such embargo has any place in the United Nations.
The  successes  of  the  United  Nations  have  never 
been won by focusing on what divides us. Had we done 
so we would not have achieved a landmark human rights 
declaration, a transformative development agenda or a 
constitution for the oceans and seas, and we certainly 
would  not  have  a  framework  agreement  for  collective 
action on climate change. Focusing on what unites us 
can bring us further along the path towards addressing 
the gaps in the law of the sea to guarantee that fairness 
extends even into areas beyond national jurisdiction.
Similarly,  we  can  take  a  final  decision  in  Poland 
to give full effect to the Paris Agreement and mobilize 
momentum for the level of ambition and the magnitude 
of support needed to avoid irreversible adverse effects 
of climate change. Belize is ready to commit to raising 
our ambition and urges others to join us in 2020 to set 
the world on the right path towards achieving the Paris 
Agreement goals.
In  conclusion,  in  our  humble  defence  of  what 
rightly belongs to us, Belize has weathered many trials. 
We see our struggle reflected in those of many others 
who have been denied the full enjoyment of their rights 
and  the  full  achievement  of  their  potential.  However, 
we are secure in our belief that right will triumph and 
that  in  the  end,  our  shared  values  of  justice  and  our 
belief in human dignity will bring us ever closer to the 
18-30196
9/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
resolutions the world needs. We therefore march on, in 
service of the United Nations and all the peoples of the 
world, armed with our values and an enduring hope for 
peace and security.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Osman  Saleh  Mohammed,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the State of Eritrea.
Mr.  Mohammed  (Eritrea):  Let  me  join  previous 
speakers  in  conveying  our  congratulations  to  the 
President for her election to lead the General Assembly 
at its seventy-third session.
Every  year, 
this  forum  provides  a  suitable 
platform for Member States to broach critical issues of 
international peace and security and their ramifications 
for  national  and  human  development.  In  that  spirit,  I 
would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  key 
matters  of  paramount  importance  to  my  country  and 
our region as a whole.
As those present are all aware, Eritrea and Ethiopia 
recently  signed  a  historic  peace  agreement  ending  a 
dark two-decade chapter of war, constant tension and 
strife.  This  historic  achievement,  even  if  it  is  almost 
16 years late, will enable both countries to funnel their 
resources,  potential  and  positive  energy  exclusively 
towards much-needed development. It has already given 
the peoples of both countries hope and optimism. The 
positive dividend for regional peace and security that it 
has generated is so clear that it does not need emphasis. 
It is clearly attested to by the new frameworks of all-
around cooperation that have been set in motion in the 
past  two  months  or  are  in  the  offing  at  the  regional 
level. Eritrea would like to express its gratitude to the 
several countries that contributed in various ways and 
demonstrated their political goodwill in support of the 
success of the historical process under way.
Let me now turn to a perplexing injustice that has 
afflicted my country for almost a decade. I am referring 
to  the  unwarranted  sanctions  that  were  imposed  on 
Eritrea  in  2009  and  2011.  With  the  positive  winds  of 
peace blowing in our region, several Security Council 
members are now calling for the immediate lifting of 
those  deplorable  sanctions.  However,  the  diplomatic 
discourse  is  not  completely  coherent.  As  it  happens, 
some  countries  are  coming  up  with  procedural  and 
other pretexts and preconditions with the apparent aim 
of  moving  the  goalposts  and  maintaining  the  illegal 
sanctions  on  Eritrea.  As  an  aggrieved  party  that  has 
been  on  the  receiving  end  of  a  miscarriage  of  justice 
for nine long years, Eritrea cannot and will not plead 
for  clemency  or  magnanimity.  The  people  and  the 
Government  of  Eritrea  will  continue  to  stand  up  for 
their  rights  until  justice  is  achieved  and  the  wrongs 
done to them have been redressed.
in  recent 
that  have 
The  transgressions  against  Eritrea  are  in  many 
ways  symptomatic  of  the  hubris  and  perverse  power 
largely  governed 
games 
international 
relations 
times.  The  spiralling  crises, 
instability,  wars  and  conflicts  that  have  raged,  and 
continue to do so, in various parts of the world are the 
inevitable consequences of an absence of justice. They 
are  the  attendant  outcomes  of  an  international  power 
imbalance.  When  the  rule  of  law  is  suppressed  and 
supplanted by the logic of force, and when the global 
power balance is compromised, the inevitable outcomes 
are intractable crises and escalating wars.
It  was  against  that  disconcerting  global  backdrop 
that  Eritrea  was  first  victimized  and  targeted  by 
unlawful and unfair sanctions, on 23 December 2009. 
I will not burden the Assembly with the details of the 
incontrovertible facts of how and why the sanctions were 
imposed, since all the relevant information, including 
confidential  communications,  WikiLeaks  and  all,  has 
long since been in the public domain and available for 
scrutiny.  However,  to  sum  up,  the  interplay  of  forces 
and factors that resulted in the sanctions was this.
First,  the  principal  architects  of  the  sanctions 
were United States Administrations that felt that they 
could  use  their  unassailable  power  and  raw  coercion 
to  ram  punitive  measures  against  a  small  country 
and  people  through  the  Security  Council  in  order 
to  advance  their  misguided  regional  agenda.  In  that 
context,  is  worth  remembering  that  certain  officials 
in  those  Administrations  had  considered  imposing 
similar  sanctions  on  Eritrea  in  1999  and  2000,  at  the 
height  of  the  border  war  with  Ethiopia,  in  order  to 
impose asymmetrical arrangements by coercive means. 
The  fabricated  charges  peddled  in  2009  were  in  fact 
improvised attempts at implementing an overall agenda.
The second reason for the imposition of sanctions 
was  the  inability  of  the  United  Nations  system  to 
prevent  such  wrongs  from  happening,  in  particular 
systemic  flaws  and  political  horse-trading  in  the 
operations  of  the  Security  Council.  In  that  context, 
too, one must remember that the Council failed to take 
any  meaningful  action  against  Ethiopia,  despite  the 
fact  that  previous  Ethiopian  regimes  had  flagrantly 
10/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
violated  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Algiers  Agreement  guaranteed  by  the  same  Security 
Council  when  they  refused  to  abide  by  the  final  and 
binding  decisions  of  the  Eritrea-Ethiopia  Boundary 
Commission of 13 April 2002.
A third factor that drove the imposition of sanctions 
was the fact that the Governments in place at that time 
served the agenda of the major Powers. In the case of 
Eritrea, the principal architects of the sanctions against 
it resorted to regional Trojan horses designed to mask 
their resolutions with an African face.
The sanctions imposed on Eritrea for the past nine 
years have resulted in considerable economic damage to 
the country and unnecessary hardships for our people. 
The  related  smear  and  defamation  campaigns  have 
done immeasurable damage to the country’s reputation 
and  to  the  prospects  and  potential  of  investment. 
Perhaps  the  most  significant  damage  is  the  regional 
instability and insecurity that this state of affairs has 
bred  and  exacerbated.  The  actual  costs  incurred  and 
the  opportunities  forfeited,  at  both  the  national  and 
regional levels, are therefore huge.
In  the  light  of  the  widely  acclaimed  peace  and 
cooperation that have been brokered in the region, the 
fact  that  certain  countries  are  choosing  to  ignore  the 
stark truth and prolong the sanctions regime in Eritrea 
is astounding. Over the past six decades, the Eritrean 
people  have  waged  a  long  and  difficult  struggle  to 
advance  the  cause  of  justice  and  foster  a  climate  that 
is  conducive  to  mutual  security  and  stability  in  the 
region. Those robust convictions and that legacy have 
enabled  them  to  withstand  all  the  wrongs  and  scars 
imposed on them by the unfair sanctions. Through their 
characteristic  resilience  and  hard  toil,  they  have  now 
vanquished the injustices inflicted on them.
In  conclusion,  as  I  stressed  earlier,  the  people  of 
Eritrea have not committed any crime or transgression 
that impels them to seek clemency. As such, they are 
not  only  calling  for  the  immediate  rescinding  of  the 
sanctions but they are also asking, and deserve, amends 
for the damages incurred and opportunities forfeited.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Urbino José Gonçalves Botelho, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Communities of Sao Tome and Principe.
me  at  this  rostrum  in  conveying,  on  behalf  of  the 
Government and the people of Sao Tome and Principe, 
our  sincere  condolences  to  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  Indonesia,  as  well  as  the  families  affected 
by  the  earthquake  that  happened  recently  in  that 
friendly country.
It is with a great sense of honour and satisfaction 
that I address the General Assembly for the first time 
as  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Communities  of 
the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. It 
is with great pleasure that I address my first words to 
Her Excellency Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, 
whom I congratulate on her election to the presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session, 
and  to  whom  I  express  our  support  for  the  course  of 
her term, which we believe will be very successful. We 
note  that  she  is  only  the  fourth  woman  to  undertake 
this  noble  function,  and  we  hope  that  those  numbers 
will  increase  in  the  future  in  the  name  of  the  greater 
inclusion  of  women  in  positions  of  importance  in 
the Organization.
I  also  congratulate  the  outgoing  President,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  on  conducting  the 
work of the previous session of the General Assembly 
judiciously,  zealously  and  selflessly  in  an  extremely 
difficult international context.
I also want to take this opportunity to pay tribute 
to  the  memory  of  former  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan, who passed away in August. He was a man who 
dedicated his life to making the world a more peaceful 
place and worked tirelessly for that purpose, and always 
with a great sense of our humanity. We must preserve 
his legacy by continuing to strengthen our Organization 
as  the  ultimate  and  overall  guarantor  of  the  quest  for 
peaceful, durable and consensus solutions, legitimized 
by  international  law,  in  order  to  achieve  the  desired 
goals of peace, security, stability and progress for all.
We  welcome  the  choice  of  the  theme  for  this 
session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people:  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”. Our 
Organization is indeed facing very complex challenges, 
for which it is called to provide effective, concrete and 
comprehensive  responses  that  are  truly  relevant  to 
all people.
Mr.  Botelho  (Sao  Tome  and  Principe)  (spoke  in 
Portuguese;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation): 
At the outset, let me join all those who have preceded 
Let us emphasize the issue of migration, on which 
the  global  leadership  of  the  United  Nations  must 
constantly  foster  dialogue  among  nations  seeking 
18-30196
11/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
global solutions, promoting concerted policies to host 
refugees  and  supporting  their  countries  of  origin  to 
better  address  this  global  problem,  which  often  has 
devastating consequences for those who, in their quest 
for  better  living  conditions,  are  exposed  to  flagrant 
injustices everywhere.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe  welcomes  the  historic  developments  on  the 
Korean  peninsula  and  calls  on  all  those  involved  to 
continue the dialogue and negotiations in the interests 
of all the parties concerned, with a view to achieving 
the development of the entire region.
If we really want peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies, our efforts must persist in search of solutions 
not  only  to  those  problems  but  also  in  negotiating  to 
mitigate  the  effects  of  the  armed  conflicts  raging 
throughout  the  world  and  to  prevent  the  emergence 
and escalation of regional tensions, which can in turn 
generate  others.  We  therefore  strongly  appeal  from 
this rostrum for ongoing dialogue aimed at peacefully 
resolving  the  tensions  that  we  are  seeing  all  over  the 
planet and the conflicts that continue to claim thousands 
of innocent lives, especially in Syria. We also continue 
to call for an understanding to be reached in the Central 
African  Republic  so  that  negotiations  can  put  an  end 
to a conflict that has harmed thousands of people in a 
country where the refugee situation has led to a serious 
humanitarian crisis.
We  warmly  commend  our  sister  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau  for  scheduling  legislative  elections  for 
November and express our hope for their success, as we 
are certain that they will mark a new era of harmony 
and prosperity, along with a resumption of the regular 
functioning  of  its  democratic  institutions.  We  also 
commend  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  for 
scheduling general elections in December and sincerely 
hope that they will be free, transparent and fair and held 
in a peaceful and harmonious environment.
We are also pleased to note the positive steps in the 
reconciliation  process  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea, 
as  well  as  among  the  warring  parties  in  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan,  and  we  strongly  encourage  them  to 
continue on that path.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Sahara,  we 
express our support for the Secretary-General and his 
Personal Envoy in their efforts to relaunch the political 
process on a basis of the parameters set by the Security 
Council  in  2007,  and  we  welcome  the  Council’s 
adoption  of  its  resolution  2414  (2018),  which  calls  for 
efforts  to  achieve  a  political,  pragmatic,  realistic  and 
enduring solution to the dispute. We also congratulate 
Morocco  on  its  serious  and  credible  efforts  to  find  a 
political and definitive solution to the region’s issues, 
and we support its initiative in favour of autonomy.
With regard to the situation in the Middle East, we 
call for dialogue and a continuation of efforts to find a 
peaceful  and  negotiated  solution,  respecting  the  right 
of  the  Palestinian  people  to  decide  their  own  destiny, 
in  accordance  with  the  fundamental  principles  of 
international law.
Along  those  same  lines,  we  renew  our  call  for 
continued  efforts  to  be  made  to  normalize  relations 
between the Republic of Cuba and the United States of 
America so that we can see the trade embargo that has 
been an obstacle to the progress of that friendly country 
for decades lifted as soon as possible.
Unfortunately,  we  must  once  again  express  our 
regret  that  terrorist  acts  continue  to  claim  so  many 
lives  around  the  world.  We  will  always  firmly  and 
vehemently  condemn  such  heinous  acts,  which  show 
no respect for human life, will always earn our firmest 
and most vehement condemnation. We also want to take 
this  opportunity  to  condemn  once  again  the  terrorist 
acts of Boko Haram on the territory of our neighbour 
and  brother  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria.  Their 
harmful  consequences  continue  to  undermine  the 
development and security of the entire Gulf of Guinea 
region.  Likewise,  we  strongly  condemn  the  terrorist 
acts that have caused so much suffering to the martyred 
peoples of the Sahel region, and in particular those of 
Mali,  the  Niger  and  Burkina  Faso.  We  reaffirm  the 
strong  commitment  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe  to  actively  collaborating  with 
its regional and international partners in all initiatives 
aimed  at  eradicating  this  problem  from  our  societies. 
Only  by  acting  together  can  we  truly  build  peaceful, 
equitable and sustainable societies, as the theme of this 
session suggests.
The leadership role of our Organization undoubtedly 
goes  hand  in  hand  with  actions  that  bring  together 
efforts  to  combat  climate  change.  We  are  confronted 
every day with the devastating effects of climate change 
around the world. Natural disasters are occurring on an 
increasingly  broad  scale  and  with  growing  intensity, 
leading to loss of life, especially in the least developed 
regions  of  the  world.  Global  efforts  must  continue 
12/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  and  they  must  be  a 
shared responsibility for everyone, because it is up to 
all of us to safeguard the future for coming generations.
At the beginning of my statement, I alluded to the 
most  recent  tragic  example  of  the  effects  of  climate 
change in Indonesia. It is therefore urgent to implement 
the  provisions  of  the  Paris  Agreement,  so  that  the 
necessary technical, financial and human resources are 
properly directed towards the immensity of the task at 
hand. We therefore hope that the forthcoming twenty-
forth  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties,  to  be 
held in Katowice, Poland, will be very successful and 
that the dialogue there will in fact make it possible to 
implement the Agreement. Sao Tome and Principe will 
do everything in its power to advocate for the crucial 
importance of shared and universal efforts to adopt the 
necessary policies in that regard.
We  also  want  to  underline  our  support  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs),  whose 
achievement  will  truly  benefit  the  whole  world. 
The  support  of  all  the  specialized  agencies  of  the 
United  Nations  will  be  required  for  formulating  and 
implementing the policies necessary for the achievement 
of the SDGs. Sao Tome and Principe would like to point 
out that we have been putting this type of collaboration 
into practice in our country.
We  also  want  to  highlight  and  welcome  the 
continued  efforts  of  the  African  Union  to  implement 
its  inclusive  Agenda  2063,  whose  achievement,  we 
believe,  will  enable  African  countries  to  throw  off 
the chains of poverty, thereby bringing their peoples a 
better future. The spirit that has guided us this far must 
continue  to  be  strengthened,  taking  into  account  our 
particular specificities and constantly keeping in mind 
what unites us, which is the quest for the well-being and 
development of the whole of Africa.
Sao Tome and Principe, a small developing island 
State,  with  all  the  constraints  that  this  condition 
entails,  is  pursuing  a  policy  adapted  to  its  realities 
while maintaining respect for its multicultural diversity 
and  human  rights.  With  an  economy  that  is  very 
vulnerable to external shocks, the current Government 
has  designed  and  is  working  to  achieve  an  ambitious 
transformation  agenda  by  2030,  closely  following  the 
guidelines of both the Sustainable Development Goals 
and the African Union’s Agenda 2063.
It  has  been  a  difficult  task,  but  we  would  like  to 
put on record the support that we have received from 
organizations  that  have  closely  collaborated  with  the 
Government  and  our  important  bilateral  partners, 
whose  support  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe  sincerely  acknowledges.  Since  our  task 
is still ongoing, we would very much appreciate being 
able to continue to count on those contributions.
On  7  October,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  will  hold 
legislative, local and regional elections. We invite the 
international  community  as  independent  observers  to 
join  us  once  again  in  witnessing  the  strength,  quality 
and  maturity  of  our  democracy,  which  the  elections 
will further consolidate.
The  United  Nations  must  assume  its  role  as  a 
leader in the global efforts to bring development to all 
peoples, in the unceasing pursuit of peaceful solutions 
to  the  ongiong  conflicts  in  the  world,  in  combating 
climate  change,  reducing 
inequalities,  promoting 
gender  equality  and  equity,  fighting  the  scourge  of 
terrorism and hatred based on race, sexual orientation 
and religious beliefs, promoting intercultural dialogue 
among peoples, and in the uncompromising defence of 
peace  and  human  rights.  These  values,  which  we  are 
certain  we  all  share,  must  be  continually  upheld,  and 
all our efforts must be conducive to their protection and 
reinforcement  in  a  spirit  of  frank  and  open  dialogue 
that benefits all.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe also maintains and reaffirms its unequivocal 
commitment to the ideals of peace and fraternity among 
peoples, and will always strive for close collaboration 
in  our  efforts  to  identify  shared  responsibilities  and 
find common solutions to our common problems, with 
a view to building more prosperous, peaceful, equitable 
and  sustainable  societies,  pursuant  to  the  ideals  of 
the Organization.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Senegalese Living Abroad of the Republic of Senegal,
Mr. Kaba (Senegal) (spoke in French): On behalf 
of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Macky  Sall,  the  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Senegal,  and  his  Government,  I 
would like to express my warm congratulations to the 
President on her election to lead the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session.  Beyond  Member  States’  
judicious  choice  of  her  and  her  country,  Ecuador,  it 
is all women of the world who are honoured. I would 
18-30196
13/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
like to convey Senegal’s sustained tribute to them for 
their invaluable contributions and tireless fight for the 
well-being of humankind. I would also like to take this 
opportunity to commend the work of her predecessor, 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák.
I  wish  Secretary-General  António  Guterres  every 
success  in  the  reforms  he  is  undertaking  to  give  our 
Organization the means to better meet the new demands 
for momentum and efficiency of our times. I believe it 
is  that  ongoing  concern  to  reform  the  United  Nations 
and  devote  more  tools  and  resources  to  it  in  order  to 
respond to the legitimate expectations and aspirations 
of  peoples  that  represents  the  interests  and  the  high 
impact of the theme of this session, entitled “Making the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies”.
That  current  and  relevant  theme  gives  us  an 
opportunity to assess our collective action in the light 
of the noble ideals of peace, security, stability, respect 
for human rights and sustainable prosperity, nourished 
by the founding fathers of the United Nations, in order 
to better understand the various challenges of our times 
in a troubled world undergoing profound change. These 
global  challenges, 
terrorism,  extremist, 
xenophobic  and  racist  abuses,  poverty,  migration, 
global  warming  and  market  regulation,  require  that 
we find comprehensive and inclusive solutions to them 
through multilateralism.
including 
By  its  very  nature,  the  United  Nations  is  the  seat 
and  embodiment  of  that  multilateralism.  It  remains 
the only forum where concerted solutions of universal 
scope  can  be  conceived  and  developed.  In  addition, 
out  of  fidelity  to  the  historic  and  current  calling  of 
the United Nations, it is more than ever incumbent on 
us to deepen our anchor in multilateralism in order to 
irreversibly establish the ideal of a better world where 
human beings remain at the heart of our concerns.
The world today is marked by growing pessimism 
about the effectiveness of the United Nations, which is 
sometimes rightly or wrongly accused of abandoning its 
task and being unable to provide adequate responses to 
our peoples’ problems and the acute crises that seriously 
threaten our planet and life on earth. In that context, it 
is  up  to  us  to  prove,  if  it  is  still  necessary  to  do  so, 
that the United Nations remains an essential platform 
in the conduct of world affairs. Its failure is everyone’s 
failure, but its success is also everyone’s success.
To improve the effectiveness of the Organization, we 
must overcome our ideological and political differences 
with a view to building a stronger United Nations, which 
will guarantee the effectiveness of multilateralism and 
among other things enable it to promote human rights, 
sustainable development and the advent of a world free 
of fear and poverty, an ideal that remains humankind’s 
highest  aspiration.  The  achievement  of  sustainable 
development in its triple dimensions — economic, social 
and environmental — should also guide our collective 
actions.  That  shared  goal  should  continue  to  drive  us 
forward,  so  that  we  can  honour  the  commitments  we 
made  in  September  2015  to  implementing  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
It  is  equally  important  to  conclude  the  Doha 
Round  of  negotiations  and  agree  on  fair,  democratic 
and  sustainable  trade  rules,  taking  into  account  the 
interests of developing countries, particularly in Africa. 
Mutually  beneficial  trade  that  protects  investment, 
pays  a  fair  price  for  raw  materials  and  generates 
shared prosperity is more important than ever. We also 
need  an  instrument  to  stop  the  tax  evasion  and  illicit 
financial flows that undermine the African continent’s 
development efforts.
Furthermore,  we  must  come  to  an  agreement  on 
issues related to climate change. In this regard, I would 
like  to  reiterate  my  country’s  support  for  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  to  which  it  remains 
committed, as well as to the fight against desertification 
and  coastal  erosion,  in  particular.  As  an  African  and 
coastal  country  that  is  particularly  vulnerable  to 
climate change, Senegal reiterates its call for increasing 
the  endowment  of  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  with  a 
view  to  giving  States  such  as  ours,  which  contribute 
less pollution and are more exposed to climate change, 
the  opportunity  to  undertake  appropriate  adaptation 
and  mitigation  measures.  Similarly,  it  would  be  to 
the public good to agree on environmental issues and 
work to strengthen the international legal framework in 
that area through the adoption of a global pact for the 
environment. The same spirit of consensus should also 
prevail in such matters as financing for development, 
disarmament and the fight against terrorism.
To make the Organization more fit for purpose, we 
must complete the reform processes under way so that 
it can adapt to the new global political configurations 
and challenges of this world, which is totally different 
from the one into which the United Nations was born. 
That  is  why  in  particular  we  should  show  greater 
14/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
political will on finally agreeing on Security Council 
reform  by  correcting  the  historical  injustice  suffered 
by Africa, which remains the only continent without a 
permanent seat on the Council.
With that same determination, we should also work 
harder to realize the right of the Palestinian people to a 
viable State with East Jerusalem as its capital, coexisting 
in  peace  with  the  State  of  Israel,  within  secure  and 
internationally recognized and guaranteed borders.
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  the  adoption  of 
a  global  compact  on  migration  that  addresses  the 
opportunities and challenges in that area is crucial and 
would be beneficial for a migratory population that is 
estimated  at  3  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population,  or 
more than 200 million people. In short, United Nations 
action should be reoriented and its power strengthened 
on a global scale, or we will never be able to achieve 
the  ideals  of  peace,  prosperity,  social  justice  and 
friendship among peoples enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
For  a  United  Nations  that  is  close  to  the  people 
and that serves our nations, we must successfully meet 
the  challenge  of  providing  sustainable  development. 
In that regard, I want to echo the appeal made by the 
international  community  when  it  met  in  February  in 
Dakar for the Global Partnership for Education. Senegal 
hopes that the pledges made on that occasion to mobilize 
$3.1  billion  for  the  strategic  sector  of  education  will 
be honoured so that we can lift thousands of children, 
especially  girls,  out  of  the  darkness  of  ignorance  and 
into the light of knowledge.
My country accords great priority to improving the 
situation of women and young people. That is why we 
are  implementing  bold  social  programmes  within  the 
framework of our plan for an emerging Senegal by 2035, 
so as to ensure their empowerment and responsibility.
to 
My  country  also  remains  committed 
the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs), particularly SDG 6, on water. In that regard, I 
would like to remind the Assembly that in 2021 Senegal 
will  host  the  ninth  World  Water  Forum.  Senegal  has 
also  been  chosen  to  lead  UNESCO’s  International 
Hydrological Programme and to chair the Organization 
for the Development of the Senegal River, which remains 
a  model  worldwide  and  is  recognized  as  an  excellent 
example of peaceful cross-border water management.
Senegal  was  honoured  by  President  Macky  Sall’s 
appointment  to  be  a  prominent  member  of  the  High-
level  Panel  on  Water,  which  was  set  up  jointly  by 
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
President of the World Bank and whose theme will be 
“Water,  Peace,  Security”.  That  theme  was  included 
on  the  agenda  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  first 
time  during  Senegal’s  presidency  of  the  Council  in 
November 2016.I would therefore like to reiterate our 
gratitude  for  the  confidence  that  has  been  placed  in 
Senegal  within  those  frameworks,  and  to  solicit  the 
support of all for the success of the ninth World Water 
Forum. I am also pleased to note that Dakar will host 
the  third  iteration  of  the  International  Conference  on 
the Emergence of Africa, on 17 and 18 January 2019. 
It  will  be  a  great  opportunity  to  outline  innovative 
economic and social development programmes.
It  is  also  an  appropriate  time  to  commend  the 
successful partnership model between Senegal and the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  especially 
in  the  implementation  of  the  emergency  community 
development programme, launched by President Macky 
Sall, which, in accordance with the principle of leaving 
no one behind, will make it possible to transform  our 
rural populations’ living conditions. Senegal is willing 
to share its experience in that area.
I would like to inform members of Senegal’s wish to 
run for the presidency of the Human Rights Council in 
2019. We have already obtained the endorsement of the 
African Union and are counting on the valuable support 
of those here to help our candidacy for that important 
post. I am also pleased to invite members to the fifth 
iteration  of  the  Dakar  International  Forum  on  Peace 
and Security in Africa, to be held on 5 and 6 November 
on  the  theme  of  “Peace  and  security  in  Africa:  the 
challenges of sustainable stability and development”. I 
would  like  to  ask  everyone  to  participate  in  order  to 
make that major event a success.
In conclusion, let us remember that at its founding, 
the  United  Nations  symbolized  humankind’s  most 
fervent hopes. Today it embodies them more than ever. 
It remains the only global institution whose legitimacy 
and competence derive from its universal composition 
and its mandate covering the three fundamental pillars 
of  international  peace  and  security,  development  and 
human rights. To take the full measure of our historical 
responsibilities  and  the  hopes  placed  in  the  United 
Nations is therefore to make it an Organization at the 
18-30196
15/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
exclusive service of Member States, their populations 
and humankind in all its diversity.
I would therefore like to share the heartfelt cry of 
the late former Secretary-General Kofi Annan — peace 
be with him — to whom I want to pay a sincere tribute. 
He said,
“But let us not forget why the United Nations 
matters.  It  matters  only  to  the  extent  that  it  can 
make a useful contribution to solving the problems 
and accomplishing the tasks I have just outlined ... 
If  we  lose  sight  of  that  point,  the  United  Nations 
will have little or no role to play in the twenty-first 
century.” (A/54/PV.94, pp. 3-4)
I  therefore  urge  the  international  community  to 
continue  its  efforts  to  ensure  the  effective  realization 
of our shared ideal of a better world for all, so that that 
terrible  but  lucid  warning  of  the  possible  uselessness 
of  our  Organization  does  not  become  a  cruel  and 
destructive  reality,  frustrating  humankind’s  most 
beautiful hope.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Kalla  Ankourao,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
Cooperation, African Integration and Nigeriens Living 
Abroad of the Republic of the Niger.
Mr.  Ankourao  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, I would like to congratulate the President on her 
election  to  lead  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third  session.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  my  sincere 
greetings to everyone here, as well as to congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  and  his  team  on 
their excellent work during the previous session.
I  would  like  to  express  my  country’s  gratitude 
to  Secretary-General  António  Guterres 
for  his 
commitment  to  serving  the  United  Nations,  and  to 
reaffirm the Niger’s support for the continuation of the 
reforms  he  has  courageously  undertaken  to  adapt  our 
shared  Organization  to  the  demands  and  challenges 
of modern times. The challenges, as we all know, are 
certainly  enormous.  But  thanks  to  his  determination 
and his excellent team, we believe that we will be able 
to achieve the expected results. In that regard, I would 
like to assure him of my delegation’s full support.
creation of the United Nations and called on to renew 
our confidence in it. My delegation can therefore only 
welcome  that  appropriate  choice  of  theme  in  a  world 
facing  multiple  challenges,  such  as  terrorism,  violent 
extremism,  climate  change,  migration  and  poverty, 
all  of  which  require  greater  international  cooperation 
and responsible engagement on the part of all of us. In 
that regard, the Niger believes that the United Nations 
remains a valuable and irreplaceable organization, not 
only  for  promoting  international  peace  and  security 
but  also  for  responding  effectively  to  the  various 
challenges  facing  our  States.  In  other  words,  my 
country  prioritizes  multilateralism  and  the  unifying 
role  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  combined  efforts  and 
resources  for  reaching  common  solutions  remain  the 
best alternative in our efforts to ensure peace, security 
and the harmonious development for humankind.
Concerning  the  issue  of  migration,  the  Niger 
welcomes the finalization of the draft text of the global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration,  the 
first-ever  international  agreement  initiated  by  the 
United  Nations  on  managing  migration.  Combating 
irregular  migration  and  other  shameful  practices 
such  as  the  illegal  smuggling  of  migrants  and  human 
trafficking  has  been  the  focus  of  many  international 
meetings in recent years. During those meetings, many 
commitments were made to eradicating those scourges. 
In 2016, in order to implement those commitments, the 
Niger outlined and implemented an operational doctrine 
based  on  balanced  legislation  and  commensurate 
regulatory measures, which have enabled us to deliver 
concrete  results.  For  example,  between  October  2016 
and January of this year we reduced by 90 per cent the 
monthly total of potential migrants entering the city of 
Agadez, the main point of entry and exit for migrants in 
the Niger. In 2017, 268 traffickers were referred to the 
courts, and 140 of their vehicles were impounded. Those 
results,  which  have  been  unanimously  acknowledged 
and  commended  by  the  international  community,  are 
the  product  of  the  commitment  and  political  will  of 
President Mahamadou Issoufou to combating irregular 
migration  and  trafficking  in  persons  and  helping  to 
eradicate  the  inhuman  and  degrading  treatment  of 
migrants beyond Agadez.
By  giving  this  session  the  theme  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies”, we have been both provided with 
a timely reminder of the profound motives that led to the 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
the  cooperation  between  the  Niger  and  the  United 
Nations through the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  the  International 
contribute 
Organization 
for  Migration,  which 
16/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
significantly  to  managing  migration  flows  in  my 
country.  The  Intergovernmental  Conference  to  Adopt 
the  Global  Compact  for  Safe,  Orderly  and  Regular 
Migration, to be held in Marrakech in December, will 
result  in  the  adoption  of  the  global  compact  and  will 
certainly be a defining moment. The Niger, as a perfect 
example of a transit country, will attend the Conference 
in  Marrakech  in  order  to  support  the  initiative  as  a 
starting point for structured international cooperation 
on migration.
The  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
remain 
one  of  the  major  preoccupations  of  the  international 
community  in  general,  and  of  developing  countries 
in  particular.  Three  years  after  their  adoption,  my 
country  has  just  presented  its  first  voluntary  national 
review of its implementation of the Goals at the High-
level Political Forum on Sustainable Development held 
here in New York in July. The Forum, under the theme 
“Transformation 
towards  sustainable  and  resilient 
societies”,  provided  the  Niger  with  an  opportunity 
to  share  with  other  members  of  the  international 
community  our  progress,  especially  in  the  areas  of 
energy  access,  education  and  health  services,  as  well 
as security. In pursuing development, my country has 
adopted  a  2035  strategy  for  sustainable  development 
and  inclusive  growth,  incorporated  into  its  2017-
2021  economic  and  social  development  plan,  which 
constitutes  the  national  framework  for  implementing 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  The 
strategy is also linked to the African Union’s Agenda 
2063 for the development of the continent, one of the 
key implementation instruments of which is the African 
Free  Continental  Trade  Area,  adopted  in  Rwanda  in 
March at the tenth extraordinary summit of the African 
Union, convened for that purpose.
The  Free  Trade  Area  is  aimed  specifically  at 
overcoming  dependence  on  commodity  exports  and 
at  promoting  social  and  economic  transformation  so 
as  to  achieve  inclusive  growth,  industrialization  and 
sustainable  development  throughout  the  continent. 
Considerable efforts to mobilize domestic resources are 
being  pursued  diligently  in  line  with  the  spirit  of  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development. It 
is  nonetheless  clear  that  many  challenges  remain  and 
must be overcome if we are to meet the goals of those 
various programmes. Hence the need for the effective 
implementation  of  a  more  proactive  and  equitable 
global partnership in accordance with the commitments 
made  by  developed  countries  with  regard  to  official 
development assistance.
In  addition,  as  a  country  of  the  Sahel  with  two 
thirds of its land area in the desert, the Niger is being hit 
hard by the effects of climate change, whose economic 
consequences are on the verge of making people’s lives 
intolerable.  The  2015  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  represents  a  unique  opportunity  to  save  our 
planet.  The  Niger  has  taken  pride  in  implementing 
the  measures  set  out  in  the  Agreement’s  road  map. 
Accordingly,  in  November,  at  President  Mahamadou 
Issoufou’s  initiative  as  Chair  of  the  Sahel  climate 
commission,  my  country  will  host  a  round  table  for 
technical and financial partners to identify guidelines 
for  the  implementation  of  the  Sahel  region  climate 
investment  plan.  I  therefore  call  on  the  international 
community,  as  well  as  our  various  partners,  to 
participate  in  that  endeavour.  Financing  the  plan  will 
enable  the  Sahel  countries  to  manage  the  impact  of 
climate  change  on  populations  and  ecosystems  more 
effectively.
The demographic challenge is another priority area 
for  my  country,  which  is  dealing  with  a  population 
growth  rate  of  4.2  per  cent,  the  highest  in  the  world, 
according to our 2012 general census of the population. 
Aware  of  the  impasse  that  the  country  could  face  if 
nothing  is  done  to  reduce  that  rate,  the  Government 
has  redoubled  its  efforts  by  engaging  the  people  and 
their  traditional  and  religious  leaders  and  partners  in 
a significant effort to reverse the trend. Since then we 
have noted a drop in the overall national average birth 
rate from 7.6 children per woman in 2012 to 6 per woman 
in  2017.  If  that  trend  continues,  within  several  years 
we  hope  to  achieve  manageable  population  growth  in 
relation to our gross national product. For that we need 
the robust support of the international community. At 
the same time, the Government will pursue efforts to 
enrol girls in school and ensure that they stay in school 
up to the compulsory age of 16, as the two problems are 
closely linked.
I  mentioned  earlier  the  major  challenges  facing 
the Sahel region in general and the Niger in particular. 
They  involve  terrorism,  cross-border  crime,  extreme 
poverty  and  climate  and  environmental  shocks,  all 
of  which  have  disrupted  our  agro-pastoral  economy 
and  increased  the  vulnerability  of  the  peoples  of  the 
Sahel.  In  order  to  tackle  our  security  challenges,  the 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  region  have 
taken initiatives, including by pooling their resources 
18-30196
17/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
through  the  establishment  of  the  Multinational  Joint 
Task  Force  of  the  Lake  Chad  basin  countries  and  of 
the Joint Force of the Group of Five for the Sahel (G-5 
Sahel),  in  order  to  mitigate  the  Malian  crisis  and  its 
spillover into neighbouring countries.
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Lake  Chad 
basin region, the 2014 deployment of the Multinational 
Joint Force made up of troops from Cameroon, Chad, 
Nigeria  and  the  Niger  has  enabled  us  to  weaken  the 
operational  capacity  of  the  terrorist  group  Boko 
Haram,  thereby  contributing  to  the  gradual  return  of 
peace  and  stability  to  the  subregion.  The  challenge 
facing the region today is therefore becoming markedly 
more  socioeconomic  rather  than  security-related.  It 
is  now  a  matter  of  gradually  ensuring  the  welfare  of 
a population reeling from the disasters created by the 
years of violent conflict that have resulted in hundreds 
of  thousands  of  refugees  and  displaced  persons.  It  is 
also a matter of rebuilding the region’s economy, while 
prioritizing youth employment and rebuilding the Lake 
Chad  region.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  all  partners  currently  involved  in  dealing  with 
the humanitarian consequences of that conflict.
Within  the  framework  of  the  G-5  Sahel,  the 
Joint  Force  for  that  region  was  established  in  2017  to 
combat  terrorism  and  cross-border  crime  within  the 
five  member  countries  more  effectively,  as  well  as  to 
secure  the  region  and  thereby  create  the  conditions 
necessary for implementing development programmes. 
The process of making the Joint Force operational has 
not  been  as  rapid  as  the  countries  concerned  would 
have liked. However, with the impetus provided by the 
African Heads of State and Government at the thirty-
first  African  Union  Summit  in  Nouakchott  in  July, 
the process seems to be gaining momentum. The four 
operations  undertaken  with  the  support  of  Operation 
Barkhane,  led  by  France,  have  been  successful.  The 
Joint Force’s primary concern involves obtaining, in a 
sustainable way, the resources needed to carry out its 
work.  The  international  high-level  conference  on  the 
Sahel  held  in  Brussels  in  February  made  it  possible 
to secure the financing required for the first year. We 
welcome  that  accomplishment,  thank  those  partners 
that  pledged  to  support  our  efforts  financially,  and 
urgently  appeal  for  the  completion  of  the  process 
needed to make the pledged funds available. Beyond the 
first year’s scope of work, however, the outlook is not 
reassuring with regard to ensuring that the Joint Force 
has the necessary funding to complete its mission. In 
order to ensure sustained funding and resources for it, 
we  continue  to  believe  that  the  best-advised  solution 
would be to give it a mandate under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations. It is a matter of peace 
and  security  in  the  region,  and  even  the  world.  We 
find it difficult to understand the hesitation shown by 
certain countries when faced with the obvious.
The  challenges  facing  us  are  not  only  security-
related.  They  are  above  all  economic.  The  Sahel 
needs  meaningful  investments  for  its  development. 
We  welcome  the  ubiquitous  initiatives  to  that  end, 
including  those  of  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union, 
the  European  Union  and  other  bilateral 
partners,  but  we  must  act  fast  in  coordinating  their 
implementation. The upcoming meeting in Nouakchott 
on  6  December  dedicated  to  the  G-5  Sahel  priority 
investment programme will be a major test for efforts 
to deal resolutely with the issue of development, which, 
in my opinion, is the best defence against terrorism.
Concerning other conflicts in Africa, my country 
welcomes the de-escalation in the Horn of Africa over 
the past three months and the peace agreement signed 
by the warring parties in South Sudan. Those are two 
pieces of good news, and we can only be grateful for 
the wisdom that led to them. With regard to the Middle 
East, our meeting here is taking place in an environment 
in  which  international  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
cause  is  undergoing  a  noticeable  decline  in  terms  of 
political  and  financial  support,  resulting  in  budget 
cuts  and  the  recognition  of  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  the 
capital of Israel by certain members of the international 
community.  The  Niger  reaffirms  its  support  for  the 
aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  realize  their 
right to establish their own independent and sovereign 
State  within  the  June  1967  borders  and  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  With  regard  to  Yemen,  we 
express our commitment to that country’s sovereignty 
and territorial integrity. The Niger rejects all forms of 
interference  in  its  internal  affairs  and  supports  it  in 
its search for a peaceful solution to the current bloody 
conflict  and  efforts  to  achieve  comprehensive  and 
harmonious development.
Since  the  2005  World  Summit,  we  at  the  United 
Nations  have  been  working  on  comprehensive  reform 
of  the  United  Nations  system,  aimed  at  enabling  the 
Organization  to  play  its  unifying  and  leading  role  in 
realizing  solidarity  and  friendship  among  peoples.  In 
our view, the new global partnership for development 
inter-State 
must  mean  a  decrease 
intra-  and 
in 
18/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
inequalities and the collaboration of every State — large 
or small, rich or poor — in the decision-making process 
in overseeing world affairs. That is how we will ensure 
balanced governance at the United Nations. With regard 
to  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the  Niger  remains 
committed  to  the  African  Common  Position  eshrined 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus.  We  strongly  encourage 
Member States to step up that process and demonstrate 
greater  resolve  in  their  efforts  to  adapt  the  Security 
Council to the realities of today’s world.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  peacekeeping 
operations, I stress the fact that new forms of conflict, 
particularly asymmetrical wars, impose demands on us 
to which we would like to see a response in the form of 
a radical transformation of the current United Nations 
peacekeeping system. That will require strengthening 
cooperation  among 
the  United  Nations,  regional 
organizations and the troop-contributing countries and 
providing missions with conflict-specific mandates.
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Francine Baron, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 
Caribbean  Community  Affairs  of  the  Commonwealth 
of Dominica.
Ms.  Baron 
(Dominica): 
I  congratulate 
the 
President of the General Assembly on her election to the 
presidency, and my delegation wishes her every success 
in a productive tenure as we seek to direct the affairs of 
this important institution in the interests of humankind.
I  would  like  to  express  my  condolences  to  the 
people  of  Indonesia,  who  are  struggling  to  cope  with 
the effects of the tsunami that struck them yesterday. 
We know all too well how challenging this time must be 
for them, and we off them our solidarity.
There are few moments in the history of a nation 
that  capture  the  resilience,  fortitude  and  strength  of 
its people. For us that moment came on 18 September 
2017,  when  Hurricane  Maria  unleashed  its  fury  of 
180-mile-per-hour  winds  on  us,  bringing  Dominica 
to  its  knees.  Immediately  after  the  raging  winds  and 
torrential downpours subsided, our people raised their 
battered  and  wounded  selves  and  began  the  daunting 
task  of  search-and-rescue  and  clearing  roadways,  and 
thereafter quickly moved into rebuilding mode.
I am proud to stand here, one year later, representing 
a people who have fought against adversity since that 
day  to  attain  some  form  of  normalcy  in  their  lives.  I 
am proud to be representing students who spent months 
away from classrooms and endured the inconvenience 
of  no  electricity,  no  Internet  and  the  disruption  of 
living  in  shelters,  but  who  attained  some  of  the 
highest  scores  on  the  recently  concluded  Caribbean 
secondary-school  examinations.  I  am  proud  to  stand 
here  representing  the  farmers  who  have  gone  back  to 
their  fields  and  are  now  harvesting  fresh  produce  to 
feed  our  people  and  to  export.  I  applaud  Dominicans 
far and wide for being part of the relief efforts and the 
rebuilding  process,  but  I  salute  in  particular  those  at 
home who have walked for miles every day up, down 
and  across  the  island  to  be  of  service,  and  worked 
countless hours to save lives, provide essential services 
and  deliver  vital  supplies  to  those  in  need.  Hurricane 
Maria wreaked havoc on Dominica, but the world must 
be told of the strength of Dominicans, our tenacity and 
our determination as a people.
The  efforts  of  our  people  were  keenly  matched 
by  the  outpouring  of  support  that  we  received  from 
members  of  the  United  Nations  family  —  from  our 
brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Caribbean  region  to  our 
international  partners  and  friends,  ordinary  men  and 
women  across  the  globe  reached  out  to  us  to  lend  a 
helping  hand.  As  we  speak,  scores  of  volunteers  are 
on the ground helping with the rebuilding efforts. We 
have  also  received  tremendous  support  from  regional 
response agencies and international organizations, both 
within and outside the United Nations system, and from 
institutions such as the World Bank. All of their efforts 
have contributed significantly to the progress that we 
have made thus far. We cannot on this occasion single 
out  those  many  persons,  countries  and  organizations 
that have reached out to us, but the people of Dominica 
are eternally grateful to all of them for standing with us 
in our darkest hour. I thank them all.
A few days after the passage of Hurricane Maria, 
Prime  Minister  Roosevelt  Skerrit  of  Dominica  stood 
before this body and sounded a call for action (see A/72/
PV.19). He called for the world to wake up and take note 
that the war of climate change had come to our shores. 
He  sent  out  a  call  to  all  countries  —  big  and  small, 
developed and developing — to come together to save 
our planet. One year later, what have we done? Where 
are we? What have we achieved? Among and around us 
are many who continue to deny the reality of climate 
change.  We  have  not,  as  a  global  community,  agreed 
on a plan for the implementation of the commitments 
made  at  the  twenty-first  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
18-30196
19/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
Change in Paris. Nor have we mobilized the resources 
to capitalize the $100 billion dollars per year pledged to 
assist the most vulnerable and to adapt to and mitigate 
the harmful effects of climate change. While we have 
been  failing  to  live  up  to  those  commitments,  Arctic 
ice shelves have continued to melt at an alarming rate, 
the  oceans  continue  to  get  warmer,  hurricanes  and 
storms continue to develop and threaten our countries, 
and droughts are becoming more severe and flooding 
more  pronounced.  Climate  change  is  therefore  the 
global  responsibility  of  our  time.  I  do  not  even  for  a 
brief moment say that lightly. How could I say anything 
lightly, standing here in this forum that appeals to our 
universal humanity?
We live in a world in which too many children go 
hungry night after night; light arms and small weapons 
continue  to  infiltrate  our  most  vulnerable  societies; 
and  non-communicable  diseases  account  for  many 
preventable deaths. Yes, I agree that poverty, inequality 
and  violence  are  shared  responsibilities  too,  but  their 
modern-day manifestations are wrapped up in climate 
change.  Climate  change  arises  from  activities  that 
support  and  reflect  inequalities,  and  it  is  always  the 
poor who suffer the most. It is the poor whose lands are 
impacted by severe droughts and flooding and whose 
homes  are  destroyed  and  whose  loved  ones  perish.  It 
is  the  poor  who  have  the  least  capacity  to  escape  the 
heavy burdens of poverty, disease and death.
Much  violence  flows  directly  from  the  climate 
change-induced  scarcity  of  things  like  water  and 
productive lands. Climate change is the main symptom 
of our world’s broken economy, society and humanity. 
Those  are  precisely  the  issues  for  which  the  United 
Nations  was  created.  Let  this  not  be  just  another 
moment  to  simply  sharpen  the  rhetoric  or  to  speak 
merely  of  redoubling  current  efforts.  We  have  done 
that  too  many  times  before,  and  have  nevertheless 
watched climate change continue its ravages. While we 
pontificate  and  engage  in  a  perpetual  debate,  climate 
change  will  march  on,  laying  waste  to  our  forests 
and  fields,  whipping  up  the  fury  of  angry  winds  and 
punishing  rains  and  wrecking  lives  and  livelihoods. 
It is no secret that some countries’ lack of motivation 
to take the necessary action is rooted in the economic 
truth that those who gain most from the activities that 
create  climate  change  remain  the  most  removed  from 
its  dire  consequences.  Since  climate  change  is  the 
result of an economic calculus that will keep pushing 
global destruction further and further along, it must be 
accepted as the responsibility of our time, one we must 
put our collective efforts behind to arrest.
It  was  only  after  Prime  Minister  Skeritt  left  this 
Hall last year that international experts completed the 
post-disaster  needs  assessment  for  Dominica.  Their 
conclusions disclosed that a single hurricane had in a 
few hours caused loss and damage equivalent to 226 per 
cent of our country’s gross domestic product (GDP). A 
mere two years earlier, a tropical storm had wiped out 
the equivalent of 90 per cent of our GDP. The cost of 
rebuilding a better and more resilient nation comes with 
a price tag far in excess of what small developing States 
like Dominica are able to meet single-handedly. That is 
exacerbated by the debilitating impact that those events 
have  on  economic  activities.  It  deprives  the  country 
of much-needed revenue at a critical time. As I speak 
before  the  Assembly  at  this  very  moment,  dangerous 
storms are gathering in the Western Atlantic. As climate 
change  warms  the  oceans  and  feeds  the  rainstorms, 
the  risk  of  future  loss  and  damage  increases.  Yet  the 
price  of  the  production  and  consumption  of  goods 
that  contribute  to  climate  change  has  not  been  set  to 
compensate  us  for  our  losses  and  damages  resulting 
from that change.
From the perspective of our shared destiny, those 
goods  are  being  over-produced  and  over-consumed. 
Climate change is not a freak of nature. It is as man-
made as power and greed. The “polluter pays” principle 
is an accepted principle — a golden nexus of morality, 
economics  and  environmental  policy.  The  “polluter 
pays” principle is being tried and tested at the national 
level,  but  at  the  international  level,  alas,  it  is  the 
victim who pays. Let us consider the insurance model 
championed  by  many  industrialized  countries  and 
international agencies as the solution to climate change. 
Island States on the front line are being asked to take out 
additional insurance against the losses and damage that 
are the direct results of a change in climate caused by 
others. That is asking the victim to pay by instalment. 
The insane equivalent would be for the arsonist to tell a 
house-owner to take out fire insurance instead of trying 
to  stop  him  setting  fire  to  the  house.  If  our  principal 
response  to  man-made  climate  change  is  to  make  it 
easier for the victims to foot the bill, then the march of 
climate change will press on unimpeded. It is therefore 
untenable, indefensible and downright unacceptable.
The game-changer would be to establish a different 
kind of insurance that pays out quickly to the victims 
of  climate  disasters,  especially  for  vulnerable  and  at-
20/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
risk  countries  like  ours.  Fairness  requires  that  that 
insurance  mechanism  must  be  funded  by  those  that 
have contributed most to climate change. Additionally, 
it  needs  to  be  scaled  up  as  a  matter  of  urgency.  The 
Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility paid out 
funds  for  the  immediate  relief  efforts,  but  it  does  not 
have  the  capacity  to  insure  against  loss  and  damage. 
Today I want to propose that the United Nations oversee 
a  climate  loss-and-damage  insurance  fund,  whereby 
premiums  are  paid  by  those  who  have  contributed 
most  and  continue  to  contribute  to  climate  change, 
and  whereby  payouts  go  quickly  to  those  who  suffer 
the direct consequences of climate disasters, once they 
have been independently declared as such.
Ending  the  inequality  that  separates  those  who 
gain  and  those  who  lose  would  remove  the fuel  lines 
of  climate  change.  That  is  what  the  international 
community  must  do,  if  it  is  serious  about  halting 
climate change. We urge the Assembly to do that, and 
we  hope  its  feet  are  swift  because  we  can  no  longer 
afford to wait. Our people needed sanctuary and safety 
yesterday, not tomorrow. In the past 12 months, while 
contending with the sheer hard task of relief and early 
recovery efforts, housing the vulnerable and restoring 
essential  services,  Dominica  has  instituted  a  plan  to 
make it the first climate-resilient nation in the world. 
We  have  drafted  legislation  to  establish  the  Climate 
Resilience Execution Agency of Dominica, which will 
deliver  the  projects  that  will  achieve  that  goal.  We 
have  recruited  its  leadership  and  identified  $1  billion 
worth of critical projects to complement the plan. We 
have rolled up our sleeves and started work. Our plan 
is  based  on  designing  extremely  resilient  networks, 
waterproofing  our  economy  and  building  resilient 
communities. As we have critically examined the core 
of  what  it  takes  to  be  resilient,  we  have  found  that 
what looked insurmountable from a distance is not so 
daunting up close.
That  realization  has  buoyed  our  confidence  and 
re-energized  every  Dominican.  By  the  grace  of  God, 
therefore,  and  with  the  continued  support  of  our 
partners in the global community, we will become the 
first climate-resilient nation in the world. We encourage 
other  vulnerable small  island  States  to  embark  on 
building  resilience  to  climate  change  as  well.  The 
costs,  however,  are  above  and  beyond  the  capacity 
of  small  States.  Support  is  critical  from  international 
organizations and their member States with the requisite 
technical expertise and financial resources.
The role of the United Nations is therefore central 
in coordinating and mobilizing resources. The creation 
of  a  special  international  climate-change  resilience 
facility  to  provide  technical  and  financial  resources 
should be given the most urgent attention possible. The 
existing global, economic and development architecture 
must facilitate that new development paradigm. Official 
development assistance must be re-engineered to take 
into account the vulnerability of small island States and 
the imperative of building resilience to climate change. 
The  international  financial  institutions  must  rethink 
the  classification  of  debt.  They  must  also  rethink  the 
essential services and vital infrastructure.
As  we  battle  the  effects  of  climate  change,  we 
are  supremely  conscious  that  there  are  many  other 
challenges confronting our region and the wider world. 
Two emerging global problems brought on by climate 
change  are  those  of  climate-induced  migration  and 
disaster refugees. Although those problems are not yet 
full-blown, some countries that act as safe havens have 
begun  to  feel  the  pressures.  That  further  underscores 
the  fact  that  the  emerging  problems  brought  on  by 
the  effects  of  climate  change  require  urgent  global 
attention.  Dominica  calls  on  the  United  Nations  to 
begin  the  discourse  on  both  climate  migration  and 
disaster refugees while it is still early.
We  champion  our  region  as  a  zone  of  peace.  We 
remain extremely concerned about the situation in our 
sister  countries  of  Venezuela  and  Nicaragua.  We  call 
for support for a process of dialogue in order to achieve 
a  peaceful  resolution  that  can  benefit  of  the  citizens 
of  those  nations,  while  respecting  and  observing  the 
time-honoured  international  norms  of  respect  for 
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of other nations.
Over many years, this body has debated resolutions 
on ending the economic and financial blockade of our 
sister country Cuba. We have long established the fact 
that  maintaining  that  trade  embargo  can  have  only  a 
negative  impact  on  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Cuba. 
Notwithstanding the constraints it faces, the Republic of 
Cuba has come to the aid of so many around the world, 
particularly in the areas of health care and education, 
and sometimes in the most trying of circumstances. We 
once again add our voice to the chorus of voices calling 
for an end to that blockade.
Dominica  supports  a  United  Nations  where 
young  people,  who  account  for  more  than  40  per 
18-30196
21/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
cent  of  the  world’s  population,  can  pursue  a  global 
youth  agenda  with  opportunities  for  dialogue  on  key 
issues  that  affect  their  development.  Similarly,  we 
congratulate  the  stakeholder  groups  of  persons  with 
disabilities and other non-State actors for their efforts 
to  advance  opportunities  for  persons  with  disabilities 
in order to ensure that they remain part of the United 
Nations agenda.
the 
If  we  keep  looking  down  at  our  feet,  we  will  die 
of  sorrow.  We  choose  to  look  up.  We  move  forward, 
knowing  that  we  are  not  alone  on  this  challenging 
journey.  Only  12  months  ago, 
international 
community heard our cry and stood with us. That has 
made  us  stronger  and  more  motivated.  To  those  who 
came to our aid, we thank them and urge them to stay the 
course over the next few years. Let us set the example 
of a better future for all humankind. Let history record 
what we did, not what we said, and the efforts we made 
to end the march of climate change globally and reduce 
our vulnerabilities locally. We must grasp this moment 
together.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Jean-Claude Gakosso, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and  Cooperation  of  Congolese  Living  Abroad  of  the 
Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Gakosso  (Republic  of  the  Congo)  (spoke  in 
French):  It  is  my  happy  duty  to  address  the  General 
Assembly in this mythic and historic place, dedicated to 
peace around the world, on behalf of Mr. Denis Sassou 
Nguesso, President of the Republic of the Congo, and 
his Government. We can never say it enough — there is 
no alternative to peace. It is our firm belief that peace is 
one of the most precious assets bestowed on us by God 
and our human intelligence. It is an invaluable treasure 
shared  by  all  nations  of  the  world,  all  peoples  of  the 
Earth  and  the  entire  community  of  States.  We  must 
never forget that it is peace that is the raison d’être of 
this wonderful institution that is the United Nations. It 
is peace that is the essential motive for our regular and 
diligent meetings here.
Yet what do we see today when we take a panoramic 
look at our world and the new ideologies emerging in 
it? We see persistent and worsening tensions between 
States;  a  resurgence  of  nationalisms  that  we  believed 
outdated; a normalization of sectarian discourse based 
on a fetishistic glorification of identity; the xenophobic 
contamination of certain social strata, ethnic and even 
racial  intolerance  and  rejection  of  others,  sometimes 
affecting  entire  populations;  a  questioning  of  the 
tremendous  diversity  of  cultural  expression  that  is 
canonized here at the United Nations and that constitutes 
the  wealth  of  our  world;  the  calling  into  question  of 
multilateralism,  despite  the  fact  that  it  continues  to 
provide a source of balance in international relations; 
and multiplying signs of rupture, particularly through 
the  undermining  of  the  founding  and  inalienable 
premise of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the  seventieth  anniversary  of  which  we  celebrate 
this year.
  have  almost 
At the same time, we see conflicts proliferating in 
various  parts  of  the  world,  while  senseless  terrorism 
and  violent  extremism,  often  fuelled  by  religious 
proselytizing, 
taken  hostage  vast 
territories that are then transformed into lawless areas, 
encouraged by the irrepressible vanity of individuals’ 
selfish  geostrategic  calculations.  As  we  can  see,  our 
world has entered a new period of uncertainty, perhaps 
even depravity. In some ways it brings back memories of 
the gloomy decade of the 1930s in the previous century. 
The proof is that the terrifying notion of wars between 
States based on identity has violently resurfaced in our 
vocabulary, even if it is masked for the time being by 
the  euphemism  of  a  trade  war.  That  is  all  happening 
before  our  eyes,  despite  the  fact  that  we  all  belong, 
without  exception,  to  this  divine  and  unique  human 
race,  despite  the  fact  that  we  are  all  inhabitants  with 
equal rights and an equal part to play on this shared and 
therefore crucial abode that is our planet.
What  can  we  say  about  the  migration  crisis  and 
the  horrifying  toll  of  thousands  of  lives,  often  young 
lives, that have been claimed by the deep abyss of the 
Mediterranean Sea? How can we, the United Nations, 
gathered  here  in  this  peaceful  and  fraternal  forum, 
peoples  united  in  a  community  of  destiny,  stand  idly 
by as our youth bleeds away on a scale unprecedented 
in  history?  How  can  we  stand  idle  in  the  face  of  the 
tragic fate of a continent whose youth is being drained 
away before our eyes, depriving it of the vital forces of 
its valiant young people and the willing hands that are 
needed  to  build  the  future  of  its  countries?  How  can 
we remain indifferent to such an enormous catastrophe, 
whose  long-term  consequences  will  one  day  catch  up 
with  us?  How  can  we  remain  indifferent  to  so  much 
suffering  and  grief?  It  is  clear  that  we  must  act,  and 
we must act together, resolutely and quickly, working 
to  develop  a  United  Nations  that  is  relevant  to  all 
22/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
peoples, as the theme of the seventy-third session of the 
General Assembly states.
Individually and collectively, we must all work to 
build and preserve peace in the world, because conflicts 
everywhere, regardless of their nature, have the same 
consequences  of  destruction,  frustration,  injury  and 
bruising. Conflicts are the result of public misery, and 
we must therefore work to resolve them. That is a moral 
requirement. It is precisely that moral requirement that 
has for years inspired President Denis Sassou Nguesso 
of the Republic of the Congo, on whose behalf I have the 
honour to speak today, in his tireless efforts for peace.
In seeking solutions to the serious crises that roil 
the  heart  of  Africa,  my  country  —  which  since  last 
year has held the dual presidency of the International 
Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  and  the 
Regional Oversight Mechanism of the Peace, Security 
and  Cooperation  Framework  for 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo and the region — has therefore 
in  a  way  become  the  seat  of  the  African  debate,  the 
place where summits of Heads of State and ministerial 
conferences, negotiations and consultations take place 
with a view to ensuring peace in the region and beyond. 
We issue strong recommendations to stakeholders and 
Governments  to  shoulder  more  responsibility  so  that 
the  region  can  be  permanently  rid  of  armed  violence 
and can focus on its own development.
With  regard  to  the  Central  African  region,  the 
Republic  of  Congo  would  like  to  commend  the  latest 
political developments in our neighbour the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, which will choose new leaders at 
the end of this year. We once again applaud the effective 
implementation of the electoral process in that country 
and call on all stakeholders in the process to prioritize 
dialogue, strengthen interaction and work to develop an 
appropriate  balance  so  that  all  the  elections  can  take 
place  in  peace.  We  are  also  deeply  concerned  about 
the  upsurge  in  armed  violence  in  the  Central  African 
Republic.  We  appeal  to  the  rebel  groups  that  remain 
reluctant to join the peace process being courageously 
led by President Touadera to engage resolutely and in 
good  faith,  while  relying  on  the  support  of  the  panel 
of  facilitators for  the  African  Initiative  for  Peace  and 
Reconciliation and other facilitating entities.
With  regard  to  the  crisis  in  Libya,  in  connection 
with which my country has received mandates from the 
African Union Ad Hoc High-level Committee on Libya 
to seek solutions, the Republic of the Congo encourages 
initiatives that can contribute to the speedy restoration 
of  peace  in  Libya  and  throughout  the  continent.  We 
support the idea of holding elections in Libya as soon 
as possible — general, inclusive, free, transparent and 
credible elections — while we also consider it essential 
to  create  a  context  conducive 
to  peacebuilding, 
including by organizing meetings for reconciliation and 
the disarmament of militias, so that the elections do not 
add further violence to violence.
In  the  Republic  of  the  Congo  itself,  the  Pool 
department, in  the  country’s  southern  region,  which 
until recently was gripped by a residual rebellion, has 
finally found the joy of peace. Thanks to the combined 
efforts of the State authorities at the highest level and 
international  partners,  a  ceasefire  and  cessation  of 
hostilities  agreement  was  reached  on  23  December 
2017  and  has  gradually  come  into  force.  This  is  also 
the  appropriate  forum  in  which  to  commend the 
support of the United Nations, particularly because the 
Organization was able to quickly establish funding for 
our  programmes  for  the  disarmament,  demobilization 
and reintegration of ex-combatants.
For  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  pursuit  of  the 
ideals of peace and the achievement of the Sustainable 
Development  Goals  for  the  benefit  of  humankind 
are  essential  commitments,  including  to  improving 
the  integration  of  women  and  young  people  into 
decision-making  processes  and  implementing  actions 
aimed primarily at eradicating poverty in all its forms. 
It is obvious that we cannot hope to build prosperous 
and peaceful societies if women, who make up half of 
humankind, and young people, who are the builders of 
tomorrow’s  world,  do  not  fully  enjoy  their  legitimate 
rights. That is why today my Government is prioritizing 
those  two  sectors  of  the  population,  given  that  their 
dynamism  constitutes  one  of  the  main  drivers  of  our 
country’s economic growth.
A  few  days  ago,  from  this  very  rostrum,  the 
Secretary-General  of  our  Organization,  Mr.  António 
Guterres,  called  on  the  leaders  of  the  world  to  delay 
no longer in protecting our planet from the disastrous 
consequences  of  climate  change.  That  call  has 
particular  resonance  in  my  country,  which,  as  the 
Assembly is aware, is located in the heart of the Congo 
basin  forest.  Our  Government  has  been  working  for 
years  to  preserve  the  invaluable  heritage  of  Central 
Africa’s huge equatorial forests and the extraordinary 
biodiversity they contain.
18-30196
23/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
Mr. Gata Mavita Wa Lufuta (Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo),  Vice-President,  took  the  Chair. From 
this  rostrum,  I  would  also  like  to  invite  sponsors, 
donors,  philanthropists,  nature  lovers,  those  brothers 
and  sisters  who  have  been  favoured  by  fortune,  all 
people of goodwill and all nations to join the peoples of 
the world and the Governments of the Central African 
countries in protecting the forests of the Congo basin in 
order to ensure clean and healthy air for our children, 
our descendants, all humankind and its offspring.
From this rostrum and on behalf of my President, 
I  solemnly  call  on  the  conscience  of  the  world  and 
all  in  this  Assembly  to  join  in  a  sacred  union,  under 
the leadership of the United Nations, to give strength 
and  vigour to  the  valuable  instruments  that  we  put 
in  place  following  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  —  the  Congo  Basin  Climate  Commission 
and  the  Blue  Fund  for  the  Congo  Basin,  which  are 
designed  to  improve  the  preservation  of  the  Congo 
basin  forest,  the  world’s  second-largest  lung,  whose 
immense territory and exuberance are matched only by 
those of the Amazon. Those instruments are awaiting 
our generous contributions, which will serve the cause 
of humankind by protecting life on this beautiful and 
irreplaceable blue planet.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. C. Peter David, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Labour of Grenada.
Mr. David (Grenada): I am pleased to extend the 
usual  warm  greetings  from  the  Government  and  the 
people of Grenada, on whose behalf I am privileged to 
address this noble Organization and its Members.
the  Assembly  at 
I  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating  the 
President  on  her  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  am  confident 
of  her  stewardship  and  assure  her  of  my  delegation’s 
cooperation  and  support.  I  am  also  pleased  to  join 
my  colleagues  in  thanking  the  outgoing  President 
of 
its  seventy-second  session, 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  for  his  able  and  focused 
leadership.  I  must  also  congratulate  and 
thank 
Secretary-General António Guterres for his leadership 
of the United Nations, and express our deep gratitude, 
especially for the keen interest he has shown in dealing 
with  the  development  challenges  facing  small  island 
developing States.
The Government and people of Grenada join others 
around  the  world  in  mourning  the  passing  of  the  late 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan.  Mr.  Annan, 
who  served  the  United  Nations  with  distinction,  was 
a  consummate  diplomat  and  international  statesman 
who  resolutely  defended  the  ideals  of  international 
peace  and  security.  The  former  Secretary-General 
was  a  humanitarian  who  worked  tirelessly  to  ensure 
that  disadvantaged  persons  around  the  world  were 
afforded their human rights. His wise and courageous 
leadership  helped  place 
issue  of  sustainable 
development  on  the  international  agenda  through  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  MDGs 
have  since  evolved  into  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, another globally agreed framework designed to 
advance the international development agenda.
the 
We are acutely aware of how critical development 
issues are for small island developing States like Grenada, 
and  we  are  indebted  to  Kofi  Annan  for  initiating  and 
spearheading that historic global movement. Today, as 
we mourn his loss, we are comforted by the fact that his 
legacy  will  continue  to  inspire  generations  of  leaders 
around  the  world.  There  is  one  particular  quote  from 
our  brother  Kofi  that  resonates  deeply  and  is  very 
relevant to the theme of this year’s session. He said,
to  global 
leadership 
“To  live  is  to  choose.  But  to  choose  well, 
you  must  know  who  you  are  and  what  you  stand 
for,  where  you  want  to  go  and  why  you  want  to 
get there.”
As States Members of this noble Organization, we 
must  deliberately  choose  to  make  the  United  Nations 
relevant to all peoples. We must also choose a deliberate 
path 
that  promotes  shared 
responsibility  for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable 
societies.  Grenada  also  joins  the  rest  of  the  United 
Nations community in honouring the late South African 
hero and international statesman, Nelson Mandela, on 
the centenary of his birth. This tribute comes at a time 
when the international community is looking to leaders 
who understand the necessity of fostering international 
solidarity  and  cooperation,  leaders  who  bring  people 
together  and  make  sacrifices  for  the  greater  good. 
The  global  community  has  no  better  example  of  that 
than the late great Madiba. It is our hope that leaders 
everywhere will work diligently to uphold his staunch 
legacy of promoting peace, equality and human dignity.
This  session  of  the  Assembly  is  taking  place 
in  a  global  context  characterized  by  changing 
political,  ideological  and  religious  tensions,  social 
revolution  and  an  increasing  anxiety  about  economic, 
24/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
social  and  political  inequality  and  marginalization. 
Those  global  changes  are  magnified,  especially 
for  developing  States,  in  the  face  of  challenging 
phenomena  such  as  climate  change,  natural  disasters 
and  non-communicable  diseases.  With  limited  access 
to development financing, those challenges are further 
exacerbated.  Pursuing  policies  and  strategies  for 
confronting  those  challenges,  with  the  corresponding 
extraordinary solutions, is the path we must follow in 
order to secure more sustainable societies.
We are well into the 2018 hurricane season and yet 
the Caribbean is still recovering from that of 2017, one 
of the most devastating hurricane seasons the world has 
seen.  We  have  been  holding  our  breath  as  this  year’s 
various  tropical  systems  —  Beryl,  Isaac  and  just  this 
week,  Kirk  —  take  aim  at  our  region.  Such  weather 
systems are yet another reminder of the vulnerability of 
our region and the realities of climate change, capable 
of  eviscerating  entire  industries  in  a  matter  of  hours. 
That is especially evident in our region, which is heavily 
dependent on agriculture and tourism, and where any 
damage to property or infrastructure is significant.
Yet  there  is  hope.  Too  often  we  talk  about 
the  disadvantages  of  small  nations.  The  global 
climate-change challenge offers us an opportunity not 
only  to  highlight  our  vulnerability  but  also  to  focus 
on  the  distinct  advantages  of  being  small  States.  The 
Caribbean  and  other  small  island  developing  States 
can  serve  as  proving  grounds  for  the  nationwide 
implementation  of  climate-related  technologies  and 
advances. We also represent some of the most globally 
compelling business cases for sustainable and renewable 
energy investment.
Being  climate-smart  goes  beyond  policies.  It 
goes  beyond  resilient  housing,  infrastructure  and 
agriculture.  It  means  that  the  region  can  also  serve 
as  a  global  beacon  for  renewable  energy  and  energy 
efficiency.  We  aim  to  be  resilient,  and  with  our 
region’s  tremendous  potential  in  hydroelectricity  and 
geothermal  energy,  we  could  also  be  climate-smart. 
In  understanding  the  need  to  rethink  our  adaptation 
to  climate  change,  the  Government  of  Grenada  has 
established  a  new,  overarching  Ministry  of  Climate 
Resilience, 
the  Environment,  Forestry,  Fisheries, 
Disaster  Management  and  Information.  Its  mandate 
is  to  work  speedily  to  ensure  that  engrained  in  every 
aspect of our country’s development is the question of 
addressing climate change and climate resilience.
Grenada  is  also  currently  shifting  some  of  its 
macroeconomic  focus  so  as  to  ensure  that  attention 
is  paid  to  the  development  of  our  green  and  blue 
economies,  thereby  tying  economic  development  and 
environmental  sustainability  together.  The  road  to 
climate-smart sustainability is long and arduous, but it 
is not insurmountable, and we must ensure that we are 
strategic on that journey. In building climate-smart and 
sustainable societies, we cannot overlook the inherent 
need  to  improve  the  health  of  our  citizens  and  the 
conditions needed to foster good health.
Unfortunately,  like  many  Caribbean  Community 
States and other developing nations, Grenada struggles 
with the scourge of non-communicable diseases. In order 
to avoid repeating some of the alarming health statistics 
that confront and challenge us developmentally, I wish 
only to emphasize that our Government calls for global 
leadership and looks forward to international solutions 
that  can  preserve  the  health  of  our  people,  promote 
longevity and sustain our future. Indeed, the successful 
completion  of  this  week’s  high-level  meetings  on 
non-communicable  diseases  and 
is 
encouraging,  particularly  in  the  commitments  set 
forth in the political declarations laudably adopted by 
consensus.  Now  is  the  time  to  scale  up  our  efforts  to 
ensure that we honour those commitments.
tuberculosis 
As  we  attempt  to  create  sustainable  societies,  we 
are  confronted  with  certain  global  financial  policies 
and  actions  that  pose  significant  threats  to  our 
region’s  sustainable  development.  Measures  such  as 
the  withdrawal  of  correspondent  banking  services, 
along  with  de-risking,  blacklisting  and  graduation  to 
middle-income  status,  negatively  affect  Caribbean 
economies. The unilateral and premature graduation of 
many small island developing States to middle-income 
status,  without  consideration  of  our  region’s  specific 
vulnerabilities,  has  resulted  in  significant  budgetary 
shortfalls  that  adversely  affect  our  economic  and 
social development. Our region has inherent structural 
economic  challenges  that  already  restrict  the  pace  of 
our  development.  We  ask  that  those  impediments  to 
growth be taken into account when our cases come up 
for consideration.
The  Caribbean  Development  Bank  has  pioneered 
the use of vulnerability indices when setting the terms 
for  its  financing.  We  also  urge  international  partners 
to  work  towards  an  acceptable  vulnerability  index 
that  holistically  assesses  our  countries’  development 
risks. On top of that, the withdrawal of correspondent 
18-30196
25/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
services 
banking 
from  Caribbean  Community 
member  States  can  be  seen  as  an  economic  assault 
that will destabilize the financial sector of our already 
vulnerable  economies.  Remittances  contribute  in  real 
and  significant  terms  to  the  gross  domestic  product 
of small States. In fact, the World Bank has said that 
any sudden halt to remittances in economies that rely 
on those flows could pose a significant threat to their 
socioeconomic stability.
In  addition  to  the  threat  of  lost  correspondent 
banking  relationships,  we  must  also  contend  with  the 
unilateral  and  often  unfounded  blacklisting  of  our 
institutions  as  money-launderers  and  our  countries  as 
tax havens. It pains us as policymakers when we expend 
our limited resources to comply with international rules, 
only to face arbitrary punishments when we are quite 
evidently doing our best. There are no easy answers to 
those challenges, but I urge our partners to desist from 
draconian  approaches  to  those  matters  when  dealing 
with vulnerable developing nations.
Grenada continues to work with our international 
partners  to  advance  international  peace  and  security. 
Grenada’s  position  on  the  development  of  nuclear 
weapons  is  clear.  It  is  inherently  destructive  and 
therefore  serves  no  good  purpose  for  humankind. 
Deterrence  makes  sense  only  where  there  is  the 
possibility of deployment. The mere existence of those 
weapons anywhere is unacceptable. Grenada therefore 
urges  its  friends  to  desist  from  the  development  and 
testing  of  such  weapons.  Imagine  what  we  could 
achieve instead if we put our brilliant scientists to work 
on climate change and building climate-smart resilient 
and sustainable societies.
As we strive to maintain the Caribbean region as a 
zone of peace, some of us continue to be affected by the 
traffic in small arms from countries that manufacture 
and  sell  them  freely.  In  some  of  our  islands,  states 
of  emergency  have  been  declared  at  various  times  to 
control criminal activity resulting from the increasing 
availability and use of small arms. Small arms and gun 
violence undermine the rule of law and are often major 
factors  behind  the  displacement  of  civilians  and  the 
violation of human rights. We cannot build sustainable 
societies if our public security is incessantly threatened 
by that scourge.
The  main  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is  to 
maintain international peace and security and prevent 
violence  and  war.  The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
actually makes only five references to war, while there 
are 47 references to peace. That is extremely instructive 
and it is therefore imperative to ensure that the global 
leadership takes decisive action. Indeed, as we strive to 
create sustainable societies, the people of Cuba continue 
to suffer under the decades-old unjust embargo imposed 
on  them  by  the  United  States  of  America.  Grenada 
continues to call for the immediate lifting of the unfair 
economic, commercial and financial embargo on Cuba, 
and  strongly  supports  resolution  70/5,  which  calls  for 
an end to the dreadful embargo.
and 
threaten 
experiencing  political 
that 
Some  of  our  neighbours  in  Latin  America  are 
economic 
currently 
challenges 
the  peaceful  existence, 
sustainable development and by extension the stability 
of the region. Grenada calls for dialogue and asks that 
good sense and wisdom prevail in all attempts aimed at 
resolving  those  conflicts.  We  also  call  for  respect  for 
the political integrity and sovereignty of those States. 
The Government of Grenada continues to offer its hand 
in  good  faith  to  facilitate  dialogue  aimed  at  settling 
those disputes.
In  conclusion,  I 
implore  Members 
to  work 
relentlessly  in  our  pursuit  of  the  purposes  of  the 
Organization.  Our  quest  must  be  for  the  pursuit  of 
economic opportunities as we strive to achieve peaceful, 
equitable and sustainable societies for all. Those ideals 
will be beyond our reach if we do not promote, encourage 
and insist on resolute global leadership in solving our 
development challenges, which transcend boundaries.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ahmed Awad Isse, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Mr.  Isse  (Somalia):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
the  President  and  her  country  of 
congratulating 
Ecuador on her election to the presidency of the General 
Assembly this year. Let me also thank the President’s 
predecessor  for  steering  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second session with admirable skill. On behalf 
of  my  Government  and  the  people  of  Somalia,  our 
sympathies and condolences go to the Government and 
the people of Indonesia, who have suffered as a result 
of the recent deadly tsunami that has claimed hundreds 
of human lives.
It  is  a  profound  honour  for  me  to  address  the 
General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the 
Federal Republic of Somalia. Our Administration has 
now completed one and a half years in office, and I am 
26/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
glad to say that we have made huge strides in security-
sector  reform  and  in  our  political  and  economic 
transformation.  We  are,  however,  mindful  of  the 
enormous  challenges  that  we  face  in  fixing  Somalia, 
and especially in overcoming the threats of terrorism.
I  am  equally  mindful  of  the  huge  expectations 
that our people have for our President’s leadership and 
his ability to provide lasting solutions to our security 
challenges. It is for that reason that our President, His 
Excellency  Mohamed  Abdullahi  Mohamed  Farmajo, 
recently  spent  six  weeks  at  our  defence  headquarters 
and time at various defence positions, giving directions 
and  providing  on-the-ground  approvals  at  forward 
operating bases.
We  have  initiated  a  new  round  of  operations  that 
have successfully opened up road networks and supply 
routes  and  thereby  have  liberated  towns  and  villages 
from occupation by Al-Shabaab terrorists. We recognize 
that  providing  lasting  solutions  to  the  challenge  of 
security  is  an  immense  undertaking  that  needs  a 
multifaceted approach. While we and our partners are 
taking out and dismantling all the terrorists’ hideouts 
by military means, we are also engaging our religious 
leaders, elders, young people, women and civil-society 
groups so that we can turn the tide against the twisted 
ideology of hate and religious intolerance.
The silver lining is that young men and women are 
not voluntarily joining Al-Shabaab. That ideology is no 
longer popular, and Al-Shabaab and Al-Qaida no longer 
have  a  ready  stream  of  new  and  volunteer  recruits  in 
Somalia. It is also important to note that some within 
their ranks, mostly young men and women, have heeded 
our amnesty offer, renounced violence and peacefully 
surrendered. Senior commanders, former sector heads 
and  infantrymen  have  unconditionally  surrendered 
as  well,  bringing  with  them  their  arsenals  and  their 
non-standard tactical vehicles, known in military terms 
as  “technicals”.  The  combination  of  those  factors  has 
further  weakened  the  terror  network’s  logistical  and 
planning capabilities.
Al-Shabaab  now  largely  exists  as  an  amorphous 
network operating as an irregular outfit that plans terror 
attacks from the shadows, but not as a strong insurgent 
force that can sustain resistance. We are now engaged 
in  creating  civil  networks  aimed  at  encouraging  a 
healthy  partnership  between  law  enforcement  and 
communities  that  can  flush  out  terrorist  remnants. 
Our  people  acknowledge  that  sustaining  security  is  a 
collective  responsibility,  and  in  turn  that  awareness 
has  helped  us  establish  effective  policing  models  that 
involve the public.
Our  quest  for  a  peaceful  and  stable  Somalia  will 
not  end  when  Al-Shabaab  is  defeated,  but  that  is  the 
first  step.  Our  comprehensive  security-sector  reform 
is  our  basis  for  developing  capacity,  streamlining, 
strategizing  and  implementing  a  practical  transition 
that  envisions  an  effective  security  force  and  stable 
security institutions.
We  recognize  that  promoting  justice,  respecting 
the rule of law and protecting peoples’ rights are key 
components  in  peace-building.  That  quest  includes 
an  organized,  gradual  and  systematic  transfer  of 
security  tasks  to  appropriate  forces,  as  agreed  in 
our  national  security  architecture,  while  at  the  same 
time  establishing  political  and  economic  measures  to 
support and sustain the transition at the federal, state 
and community levels.
On behalf of the people of Somalia, I want to say 
unequivocally  that  we  are  truly  grateful  to  the  brave 
men and women who have served and continue to serve 
in the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM). 
They  have  made  huge  sacrifices  to  keep  our  people 
safe,  and  that  will  never  be  forgotten.  We  remain  in 
their debt.
In order to consolidate our collective security gains 
and  further  support  our  Somali  security  institutions 
so that we can take over from AMISOM, I call on the 
United Nations to lift the long-standing arms embargo 
on Somalia, which is now preventing us from levelling 
the field in our battle with terrorist groups. When our 
fighting arsenal is only equal to the enemy’s, the odds 
are  split.  A  stronger  fighting  capacity  would  give  us 
the upper hand and enable us to entirely dismantle the 
terrorists, and possibly in a shorter time.
foremost  objective 
Our  Administration’s 
is 
expanding the democratic space available to our people. 
It  should  be  considered  sacrosanct  that  every  Somali 
should enjoy the inalienable rights to life, freedom and 
protection  enshrined  in  our  provisional  Constitution, 
including freedom of the press, freedom of association 
and  even  the  freedom  to  petition  the  Government  for 
the redress of grievances. That is why we are winning 
the  fight  against  terrorists.  Our  people  have  been 
suppressed and subjugated for a long time by terrorist 
networks, and those freedoms and protections mean a 
lot  to  them.  Individually  and  collectively,  our  people 
18-30196
27/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
and communities recognize that it is the responsibility 
of  their  Government  to  protect  their  liberties.  Our 
people also appreciate the fact that for the Government 
to  do  so,  we  must  all  operate  within  the  terms  of 
our Constitution.
One  of  our  core  values  is  protecting,  supporting 
and  providing  a  platform  for  minority  groups  and 
communities and those with special needs. Our people 
acknowledge  that  for  our  system  of  governance  to  be 
effective,  the  rule  of  law  must  reign  supreme.  Only 
then can we attain the vision of a prosperous Somalia. 
As we mark 18 years since the rebirth of our Republic 
in Arta, Djibouti, our quest for an inclusive, reformed 
political system is now on the right track. We have an 
agreed  election  model,  adopted  jointly  by  the  central 
Government  and  the  federal  member  states  in  Baidoa 
in June and endorsed by the international community 
in  Brussels  during  the  Somalia  Partnership  Forum  in 
July.  We  note  that  it  is  the  election  period  for  some 
of  the  federal  member  states.  Our  role,  as  the  central 
Government, will be to promote transparent, free and 
fair processes.
We have set specific goals with regard to economic 
development  and  have  established  frameworks  for 
key deliverables in attaining our goals for sustainable 
productivity  in  the  areas  of  agriculture,  fisheries 
and  livestock.  Somalia  enjoys  the  double  blessing  of 
a  strategic  location  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  a  vast 
wealth  of  natural  resources.  Significant  oil  reserves, 
natural  gas,  iron  ore  and  arable  and  productive  land, 
as  well  as  Africa’s  second-longest  coastline  after  the 
island of Madagascar, provide enormous opportunities 
for sustainable output.
My  Government’s  objective  is  to  tap  into  those 
opportunities, transform our economy, streamline our 
trade and investment policies, and open up new trade 
routes and horizons for our people. In that regard, we are 
seeking to strengthen alliances with our core partners 
so  as  to  promote  trade  and  investment  opportunities, 
even as we widen our scope in our quest for broader, 
far-reaching  economic  cooperation.  We  seek 
to 
strengthen strategic partnerships with our neighbours, 
the  continent  and  the  world,  where  we  share  mutual 
interests 
in  economic  development,  security  and 
social cooperation.
One  of  our  Government’s  key  priorities 
is 
promoting sustainable fiscal policies aimed at growing 
our  economy  and  instilling  the  discipline  required 
to  maintain  it.  Somalia  is  committed  to  working 
purposefully  for  financial  self-sufficiency  and  the 
achievement  of  the  crucial  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  Through  the  International  Monetary  Fund’s 
staff-monitored  programme,  we  have  raised  domestic 
revenue  to  unprecedented  levels,  and  we  are  in  the 
process  of  normalizing  relations  with  international 
financial institutions through continuing dialogue and 
meaningful  engagement.  Those  efforts  are  edging  us 
closer to debt relief.
Somalia 
is  committed 
to  boosting  economic 
integration and free trade flows across the region. The 
Horn  of  Africa  is  undergoing  a  remarkable  political 
and  economic  transformation.  Somalia  is  proud  to 
be playing a leading role in the quest for the region’s 
economic integration and to be serving as a mediator 
in the effort to end the decades-long conflicts that have 
dogged  the  region.  We  are  pleased  to  be  contributing 
towards realizing the African Union’s goal of silencing 
the guns by 2020.
A new dawn of leadership is at hand in the Horn 
of  Africa.  A  stronger  desire  to  bolster  historical  ties 
for  shared  interests  represents  a  means  for  effective 
cooperation among the countries of the region. In order 
to  achieve  our  common  goal  of  economic  progress 
and  prosperity  for  the  Horn  of  Africa,  I  humbly  call 
on the United Nations to lift all economic sanctions on 
our  neighbour,  Eritrea.  Such  a  move  would  improve 
the flow of imports and exports and the movement of 
people and businesses, and it would fulfil our vision for 
the successful economic integration of the region.
There  is  evidence  everywhere  that  Africa  is 
moving  towards  greater  connectivity  and  prosperity. 
East Africa is becoming the continent’s fastest-growing 
region  as  Africa  becomes  the  world’s  largest  free 
trade area. It is time for us to focus on and encourage 
intra-African  investment.  Somalia,  with  its  resource 
potential, is committed to moving with the continent. 
We  have  recently  joined  the  Common  Market  for 
Eastern  and  Southern  Africa  trade  bloc,  and  we  have 
also applied for membership in a number of other trade 
and economic blocs.
It  is  only  by  expanding  the  prospects  for  open 
markets, free trade, investments and policies that ease 
the  movement  of  people  and  businesses  between  the 
countries  of  Africa  that  we  can  bring  about  solutions 
to  the  domestic,  economic  and  social  challenges  that 
we  face,  as  we  work  towards  realizing  the  African 
28/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
Union’s  Agenda  2063.  We  need  to  formulate  joint 
policies  that  provide  lasting  solutions  to  the  problem 
of  illegal  immigration  and  that  expand  our  scope  and 
vision for economic and social progress, which in turn 
will help to create jobs and opportunities for our young 
people,  provide  meaningful  employment  and  improve 
the  quality  of  education.  It  can  no  longer  be  business 
as  usual  when,  year  in  and  year  out,  we  are  losing 
hundreds of productive young men and women to the 
Mediterranean,  ostensibly  in  search  of  better  living 
prospects.  It  is  ironic  that  this  is  happening  as  the 
world is focusing on Africa for its resources, markets 
and labour.
I am hopeful that better days and better prospects 
lie ahead for all of us. For Somalia, it is the beginning 
of  a  transformation.  We  have  risen  anew  and  afresh. 
We are not only optimistic but also motivated, as our 
security  is  improving,  our  economy  is  on  an  upward 
trend  and  our  foreign  policy  has  already  received 
accolades  in  the  region  and  beyond.  We  are  focused 
on keeping pace with the ever-changing economic and 
technological dynamics of today, and we are embracing 
new ideas. As such, we are open to all investments, and 
we are ready to do business.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Alpha Barry, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Burkina Faso.
Mr. Barry (Burkina Faso) (spoke in French): In the 
73 years since our Organization was created, Ms. María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  is  the  fourth  woman  to  be 
elected President of the General Assembly, and only the 
second  in  half  a  century.  Her  election  deserves  to  be 
particularly welcomed and that is why, on behalf of His 
Excellency Mr. Roch Marc Christian Kaboré, President 
of Burkina Faso, whom I have the honour to represent 
here, as well as on behalf of my delegation, I offer her 
my warmest and most sincere congratulations. Burkina 
Faso, a Vice-President of the General Assembly at this 
session,  will  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  the  success  of 
our work.
To  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  António  Guterres, 
whose  actions  since  he  took  office  have  not  gone 
unnoticed,  I  reaffirm  Burkina  Faso’s  full  support  for 
his  commitment  and  determination  to  bring  about 
important  and  ambitious  reforms  to  make  the  United 
Nations more effective.
Before  continuing,  I  want  to  spare  a  thought  for 
the  brotherly  and  friendly  people  of  Indonesia,  who 
have been severely tested today by an earthquake and 
a  tsunami.  On  behalf  of  President  Kaboré,  I  extend 
our sincere condolences and deepest sympathies to the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Indonesia  and  to  the 
families of the victims. We also wish the many injured 
a swift recovery.
Burkina Faso has been tirelessly pursuing its efforts 
to  strengthen  democracy  and  consolidate  the  rule  of 
law  through  many  measures,  including  finalizing  the 
preliminary draft of our new Constitution and, on 30 July, 
revising  the  law  on  the  electoral  code.  Referendum 
consultations  are  scheduled  for  2019.  Our  future 
Constitution, drafted in a consultative framework, aims 
to  strengthen  human  rights  and  civil  liberties,  taking 
into  account  other  new  provisions,  such  as  access  to 
land for all, the right to clean drinking water, the right 
to employment and the abolition of the death penalty. 
Further  provisions  are  planned  to  introduce  balance 
into the distribution of power. In addition, the process 
of  revising  the  electoral  code  will  pave  the  way  for 
Burkina Faso citizens overseas to vote, allowing them 
to participate in the presidential elections in 2020 for 
the first time in our country’s history.
Meanwhile, many other reforms have been launched 
improve  political  and  economic  governance, 
to 
modernize 
the  Administration,  consolidate  public 
finances  and  strengthen  the  independence  of  the 
judiciary,  as  well  as  human  rights.  On  the  economic 
front,  despite  a  difficult  security  and  social  context, 
Burkina  Faso  has  attained  a  growth  rate  of  6.7  per 
cent thanks to the consolidation of public finances, the 
initiation  of  reforms  to  improve  tax  revenues  and  the 
structuring of projects launched within the framework 
of the national economic and social development plan. 
The  fruits  of  that  growth  have  been  redistributed  by 
building infrastructure and adopting social measures in 
favour of our most underprivileged citizens, particularly 
women  and  girls.  Our  free  health-care  policy  has 
significantly  improved  care  for  pregnant  women  and 
children  under  the  age  of  five  and  will  continue  with 
the  operationalization  of  a  universal  health-insurance 
system that will gradually enable health-care coverage 
to be extended to all Burkina Faso citizens.
In  terms  of  public  health  and  access  to  drinking 
water,  substantial  efforts  have  been  made  to  benefit 
rural  and  urban  areas.  Likewise,  our  special  job-
creation  programme  for  young  people  and  women 
aims  to  promote  their  access  to  jobs  and  acquisition 
of  vocational  skills,  with  a  view  to  opening  up 
18-30196
29/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
opportunities  for  their  sustainable  integration  into 
the labour market. In addition, an integrated women’s 
empowerment  programme  aims  to  strengthen  their 
productive capacities and their participation in Burkina 
Faso’s economic and social development by 2020.
Burkina  Faso  remains  very  concerned  about 
the  insecurity  and  terrorist  attacks  that  it  has  been 
subjected  to  for  the  past  three  years.  Once  limited  to 
our northern regions, the terrorist threat has gradually 
spread  to  other  areas,  especially  the  south-west  and 
the east, which border on Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana and 
the Niger, Benin and Togo respectively. In the space of 
three years, 229 civilians and military or paramilitary 
troops have been killed by armed terrorist groups.
In  order  to  tackle  that  worrying  situation,  my 
Government  is  mobilizing  all  its  human,  financial, 
military, non-military and material resources to combat 
this  terrible  threat  and  ensure  the  people’s  security. 
Unfortunately, our unconscionable and faithless enemies 
will stop at nothing to sow their seeds of terror. Their 
new modus operandi is the use of improvised explosive 
devices. To provide some context, they have blown up 
two vehicles this week alone using such fatal devices, 
killing 14 members of our defence and security forces 
participating in security operations within our borders.
Besides attacking our defence and security forces, 
symbols of the State, the terrorists have been targeting 
civilians, students and teachers. More than 520 schools 
have closed, depriving nearly 56,000 students of their 
right  to  an  education  owing  to  the  terrorist  threat. 
By  targeting  schools,  armed  terrorist  groups  are 
attacking the education system generally, and thereby 
educated people — people who would try to thwart the 
dissemination  of  the  terrorists’  ideas  and  way  of  life. 
The terrorists know that an educated and enlightened 
person  is  more  difficult  to  manipulate  than  one 
without  education.  Far  from  causing  us  to  lose  heart, 
those  attacks  have  reinforced  our  unity,  solidarity 
and  determination  to  defend  the  values  that  underpin 
Burkina Faso — our republican form of Government, 
democracy, secularism and social cohesion.
terrorism,  one 
is 
unanimously  acknowledged,  which  is  that  no  one 
country can combat that threat alone. Even by coming 
together, as the Group of Five for the Sahel (G-5 Sahel) 
countries have done in order to pool their efforts, the fact 
remains that our countries absolutely need the support 
of the international community to render the G-5 Sahel 
the  fight  against 
In 
thing 
Joint Force operational. Beyond the countries directly 
affected  by  the  terrible  phenomenon  of  terrorism,  the 
fight against terrorism is directly related to our broader 
need for international peace and security.
the  General  Assembly  reaffirmed 
Indeed,  in  its  resolution  72/165  of  19  December 
2017,  proclaiming  21  August  the  International  Day 
of  Remembrance  of  and  Tribute  to  the  Victims  of 
Terrorism, 
its 
unwavering commitment to strengthening international 
cooperation  to  prevent  and  fight  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms  and  manifestations.  In  that  regard,  Burkina 
Faso  appeals  to  the  Security  Council  to  place  the 
G-5 Sahel Joint Force under a mandate deriving from 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, with 
a  view  to  ensuring  that  it  receives  sustainable  and 
multilateral financing.
I would also like to take this opportunity to recall 
that the Security Council, by its resolutions 2320 (2016) 
and 2378 (2017), has already expressed its intention to 
take  concrete  steps  to  establish  the  principles  under 
which  African  Union  peace  operations  authorized  by 
the Security Council should be funded through United 
Nations  assessed  contributions,  with  decisions  on 
funding specific missions to be taken on a case-by-case 
basis. At the seventy-second session, President Lajčák 
reminded us that
pursuant 
“peace  and  prevention  should  be  at  the  centre  of 
everything the United Nations does, because when 
we  read  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  there 
are only five references to war. The word ‘peace’, 
however, appears 47 times” (A/72/PV.3, p.5).
Therefore, 
to  General  Assembly 
resolution 70/262 and Security Council resolution 2282 
(2016),  both  adopted  on  27  April  2016,  the  high-level 
meeting  on  peacebuilding  and  sustaining  peace  (see 
A/72/PV.83  et  seq.)  held  from  24  to  25  April  placed 
particular emphasis on prevention. Indeed, prevention 
is at the heart of building and sustaining peace and must 
therefore be a primary objective for both States and the 
United  Nations.  It  is  also  the  primary  responsibility 
of  national  Governments  to  determine  the  necessary 
priorities  and  strategies  by  involving  every  stratum 
of  society.  In  order  to  consolidate  peace,  we  must 
address  the  root  causes  of  conflict,  such  as  poverty, 
exclusion, discrimination — and, indeed, the effects of 
climate change.
It is for that reason that the Government of Burkina 
Faso launched an emergency programme for the Sahel 
30/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
for the period from 2017 to 2020 as a holistic response 
to  the  region’s  dual  socioeconomic  and  security 
challenges,  through  the  realization  of  socioeconomic 
infrastructure  projects  and  the  establishment  of  basic 
social services, as well as the promotion of production 
and processing activities as sources of income for the 
people in the northern areas of our country. Initiatives 
for building and sustaining peace can succeed only if 
they  receive  sufficient,  predictable,  sustainable  and 
coherent funding by involving multilateral and bilateral 
partners,  as  well  as  the  private  sector.  Burkina  Faso 
welcomes and applauds the support that it enjoys from 
the United Nations system and from the European Union 
in the implementation of that emergency programme.
The  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  are  aimed  at  achieving  a  world  of 
peace, justice, solidarity and social well-being for all, 
on  a  planet  that  is  not  threatened  by  climate  change. 
The  support  that  many  countries  like  Burkina  Faso 
receive  from  the  United  Nations  system  for  their 
efforts 
the 
Sustainable Development Goals, is highly appreciated. 
That  is  why  we  welcome  the  unanimous  adoption  of 
resolution 72/279, on repositioning the United Nations 
development system, which provides for a revitalization 
of the role of the resident coordinator system.
to  achieve  development,  and 
thereby 
Burkina  Faso  welcomes  the  support  given  to  the 
Sahel  countries  through  the  United  Nations  Support 
Plan for the Sahel. The Plan, which covers the period 
from  2018  to  2030,  will  improve  coordination  and 
strengthen  collaboration  among  the  partners  in  the 
region.  In  addition,  it  will  help  to  implement  the 
priorities identified for the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  African 
Union’s Agenda 2063.
It is now more necessary than ever that we defend 
and  encourage  multilateralism.  That  is  the  belief  of 
Burkina Faso, and it must be a vision shared by all if we 
are to create a more open and more inclusive world. It 
is in the name of international solidarity that Burkina 
Faso  is  now  engaged  in  six  peacekeeping  operations 
with more than 2,000 personnel, making our country a 
major actor in United Nations peacekeeping operations. 
We  are  also  one  of  the  few  countries  —  one  of  only 
three,  in  fact  —  that  maintain  a  military  contingent 
in  Guinea-Bissau  responsible  for  the  security  of  its 
republican  institutions.  Burkina  Faso  is  the  largest 
troop-contributing  country  to  the  United  Nations 
Multidimensional  Integrated  Stabilization  Mission  in 
Mali and the largest contributor of correctional officers 
to the United Nations. In that capacity, we will succeed 
Canada as Chair of the Group of Friends of Corrections 
in Peace Operations for a one-year term.
Because  the  credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the 
United  Nations  also  depend  on  its  ability  to  prevent 
and manage crises and to promote international peace 
and  security,  Burkina  Faso  welcomes  the  reforms  of 
management and of the peace and security pillar, which 
should  improve  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to 
effectively  carry  out  its  mission  of  sustainable  peace 
and  social  progress  for  citizens  around  the  world. 
Burkina  Faso  commends 
the  Secretary-General’s 
Action for Peacekeeping initiative and the holding of a 
high-level meeting on that initiative at this session. The 
adoption of the Declaration of Shared Commitments on 
United Nations Peacekeeping Operations highlights the 
achievements  of  peacekeeping  operations  and  enables 
us to reaffirm our shared commitment to addressing the 
most pressing challenges.
As peace, security, democracy, respect for human 
rights  and  development  are  intrinsically  linked,  we 
must  work  to  ensure  that  all  countries  in  crisis  find 
peace.  That  is  why  Burkina  Faso  congratulates  the 
Government and the people of Mali on their successful 
holding  of  presidential  elections,  despite  the  context 
there of terrorist threats, and calls on the Malian political 
class to stand together in making every possible effort 
to overcome that enemy. The peace agreement between 
the  political  leaders  of  South  Sudan  also  merits  high 
praise.  On  the  subject  of  Western  Sahara,  Burkina 
Faso welcomes the announcement of the resumption of 
negotiations before the end of the year.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict continues to be of 
real concern, and Burkina Faso remains convinced that 
a solution must be political, peaceful, just and equitable, 
based on the existence of two States living side by side 
within  secure  and  recognized  borders.  In  Asia,  the 
commencement of dialogue between the two Koreas is 
a  good  sign  and  should  be  encouraged  and  supported 
by the international community. Burkina Faso strongly 
endorses their dialogue. With regard to the economic, 
financial  and  commercial  embargo  against  Cuba, 
Burkina Faso calls for it to be completely lifted.
The proliferation of small arms and light weapons 
poses  a  threat  to  peace  and  security  in  various  parts 
of  the  world  and  is  an  obstacle  to  achieving  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  That  is  why  my 
18-30196
31/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
country welcomes the inclusion of ammunition in the 
final document (A/CONF.192/2018/RC/3) of the Third 
United  Nations  Conference  to  Review  Progress  Made 
in  the  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in 
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All its Aspects.
With  regard  to  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  we 
condemn the resurgence of the use of chemical weapons 
in  recent  years  and  call  for  general  and  complete 
disarmament  where  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
concerned.
Humanitarian issues are of paramount importance 
in view of the growing number of refugees and migrants 
around the world. Burkina Faso therefore welcomes the 
inclusive  negotiation  process  that  has  resulted  in  the 
drafting of consensus-based texts for a global compact 
for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration,  scheduled 
to  be  adopted  at  the  Intergovernmental  Conference 
on  the  Global  Compact  for  Migration,  to  be  held  on 
African soil in Marrakech on 10 and 11 December. As 
a  migration  country,  with  at  least  4  million  citizens 
living  abroad  and  nearly  25,000  refugees  on  its 
territory, Burkina Faso intends to play an active role in 
the adoption of the two global compacts on migration 
and on refugees. They should help not only to establish 
effective migration management around the world but 
also to better protect refugees and migrants.
Burkina  Faso  also  welcomes  the  organization 
on  the  margins  of  the  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General Assembly of high-level events on topics such 
as tuberculosis and non-communicable diseases. There 
is  no  doubt  that  the  recommendations  resulting  from 
those  two  events  will  contribute  to  improving  the 
management of those diseases, which have a negative 
impact on people’s lives.
Intergovernmental negotiations on Security Council 
reform have been going on for more than 20 years, with 
13  rounds  of  negotiations,  but  no  comprehensive  and 
satisfactory  solution  has  emerged,  even  though  the 
vast  majority  of  Member  States  agree  in  principle  on 
having a Security Council that is more representative, 
better  adapted  to  contemporary  realities  and  better 
able to quickly respond to crises. With the support of 
the  majority  of  Member  States,  we  must  now  move 
towards text-based negotiations, which is the only way 
to advance towards a genuine and consensual solution. 
We  sincerely  hope  that  we  can  achieve  reform  of  the 
Security Council, as it would redress the injustice done 
to  Africa,  which  deserves  a  permanent  place  on  the 
Security Council, and should have one.
While all of the themes of the sessions of the General 
Assembly  command  our  attention,  this  year’s  theme, 
“Making the United Nations relevant to all people: global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful, 
equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  challenges  us 
even  more.  Its  implementation  also  requires  adequate 
representation for all Member States in the bodies of our 
Organization.  In  that  connection,  Burkina  Faso  calls 
for universal support for the candidacy of Mr. Brahima 
Sanou  for  the  post  of  Deputy  Secretary-General  of 
the  International  Telecommunications  Union,  in  the 
elections  scheduled  for  the  Union’s  plenipotentiary 
conference, to be held from 29 October to 16 November 
in the United Arab Emirates.
its  relevance  and 
Despite its 73 years of existence, our Organization 
must  continue  to  work  to  strengthen  itself  and  to 
assure  people  of 
importance. 
Building an equitable world in a peaceful and healthy 
environment  is  a  shared  and  long-term  undertaking 
and a responsibility that we all share. Let us therefore 
trust  our  Organization,  the  only  framework  that 
enables  us  to  remain  united  in  strong  action  and  that 
creates  greater  hopes  for  the  peoples  of  the  world. 
To  that  end,  I  want  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to 
a great man and a worthy son of Africa who stood at 
the helm of our shared Organization. I am referring, of 
course, to the late Mr. Kofi Annan.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for 
this meeting.
Before giving the floor to speakers in exercise of 
the right of reply, I would like to remind members that 
statements in the exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 5 minutes 
for the second, and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Al-Kuwari  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
country’s  delegation  would  like  to  exercise  its  right 
of  reply  in  response  to  the  false  accusations  in  the 
statements  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Bahrain 
(see A/73/PV.14).
The international community realizes full well that 
the State of Qatar is innocent of all of the accusations 
that  have  been  made  against  it,  and  that  it  is  active 
at  the  regional  level  in  combating  terrorism  and 
32/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
extremism  while  promoting  peace.  We  have  heard 
such  fake  allegations  only  from  the  representatives 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  Bahrain.  They  have 
never  been  made  by  any  credible  international  party, 
but only by States whose record is full of violations of 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international human rights law at the national, regional 
and international levels.
the 
respecting 
Surprisingly,  the  States  making  such  allegations 
against  us  do  not  practice  what  they  preach.  The 
Emirates  and  Bahrain  talk  about  fighting  terrorism 
and 
sovereignty  of  States  and 
non-interference  in  their  affairs,  while  in  fact  they 
terrorize  and  suppress  civilians,  violate  human  rights 
and interfere in the internal affairs of other States in a 
way that undermines international and regional peace 
and security. That has become evident in their repeated 
attempts to destabilize security and stability in Qatar. 
They plotted, financed and supported an unsuccessful 
1996 coup in Qatar, and they are currently imposing a 
blockade on ut. In addition, they continue to terrorize 
their  citizens  and  keep  spreading  lies  and  expecting 
people  to  believe  them.  They  are  also  using  modern 
technology in their attempts to deceive.
The United Arab Emirates was used as a platform 
for  financing  the  greatest  act  of  terrorism  in  modern 
history. It allowed most of the terrorists who perpetrated 
that act to escape through its territories, as was stated 
in the official report issued by the Commission on the 
11  September  events  that  led  to  that  terrorist  attack. 
While  those  States  claim  that  they  are  combating 
terrorism,  we  all  know  that  it  was  their  reckless  and 
irresponsible policies that helped to launch terrorism. It 
is deplorable that our region has witnessed that kind of 
political gambling.
With  regard  to  the  allegations  made  about  my 
country by the representative of Bahrain, I want to say 
that its interference in the internal affairs of the State 
of Qatar reveals a real crisis of leadership in Bahrain. 
Instead  of  resolving  their  internal  issues,  it  seeks  to 
falsify  history  through  lies  in  the  media.  Bahrain’s 
record is full of violations and policies of suppression, 
for which its citizens are paying the price. That makes 
it  ineligible  to  talk  about  fighting  terrorism  and 
extremism  or  about  human  rights.  Bahrain  would  do 
better to uphold international conventions and respect 
human  rights.  It  must  know  for  certain  that  it  cannot 
solve its domestic problems by making fake allegations 
about other States.
Bahrain should comply with the international calls 
to it to stop discriminating against and marginalizing 
its  citizens.  That  leads  to  the  creation  of  fertile 
environments  enabling  extremism  and  terrorism  to 
spread and causing suffering in the region. The illegal 
and  unilateral  measures  taken  by  Bahrain  against  my 
country serve only to undermine regional cooperation, 
which is one of the most important pillars in our efforts 
to achieve stability and security and combat terrorism 
and extremism.
It is ironic that the United Arab Emirates is trying 
to market itself as a factor for stability in the region. It 
is no secret that the United Arab Emirates has adopted 
irresponsible  policies  aimed  at  undermining  its  sister 
States  and  peoples  while  destabilizing 
important 
regional bodies such as the Gulf Cooperation Council, 
and  disregarding  international  law  as  well  as  the 
principles of the Charter and of good neighbourliness.
According  to  United  Nations  and  international 
reports,  the  financial  sector  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  has  become  a  safe  haven  for  those  seeking 
to  evade  financial  sanctions  imposed  by  the  Security 
Council,  as  well  as  for  money-laundering  benefiting 
terrorist  organizations.  It  is  known  that  the  United 
Arab Emirates relies on private mercenary companies 
to implement its destructive agenda in the region and 
on  espionage  companies  to  terrorize  its  citizens  and 
intervene in the internal affairs of other States. It has 
also  become  known  that  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
violates  Security  Council  sanctions,  as  is  evident  in 
the recent reports of the Panels of Experts established 
pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolutions  1973  (2011), 
and 2140 (2014). That is the record of the United Arab 
Emirates at the regional and international levels.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  disregards 
its 
international  commitments.  It  is  spearheading  efforts 
to  destabilize  security  and  stability  in  the  Middle 
East,  Africa  and  beyond  and  has  become  a  leader  in 
destabilization and destruction activities. Surprisingly, 
it claims that it sponsors democracy while it punishes 
its  citizens  who  exercise  their  freedom  of  expression 
with 15 years in prison.
International  reports  have  cited  serious  human 
rights  violations  committed  by  the  Government  of 
the United Arab Emirates. The report of the Group of 
Regional and International Eminent Experts on Yemen 
has  substantiated  appalling  and  shameful  human 
rights violations perpetrated by United Arab Emirates 
18-30196
33/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
personnel.  In  that  regard,  we  were  disgusted  to  read 
paragraph  71  of  the  Group’s  report  (A/HRC/39/43) 
dealing with war crimes that are unprecedented in our 
present era.
In  July,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  issued 
a  binding  decision  in  which  it  approved  a  request  by 
the  State  of  Qatar  against  the  United  Arab  Emirates 
regarding  its  discrimination  against  Qatari  nationals 
and its violation of the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. The 
decision stipulated that the United Arab Emirates must 
first guarantee the reunification of Qatari families that 
have been divided as a result of measures taken by the 
Emirates  Government;  secondly,  give  Qatari  students 
affected  by  the  United  Arab  Emirates  measures  the 
opportunity  to  complete  their  studies  in  the  Emirates 
or give them their educational records so that they can 
complete their studies elsewhere; and thirdly, allow the 
affected Qatari nationals to have access to the courts of 
the United Arab Emirates.
That decision by our highest international judicial 
organ is a recognition of the legal correctness of Qatar’s 
position  regarding  the  crisis  that  has  been  fabricated 
against it. It proves the rights of Qatari nationals who 
have  been  affected  by  the  unilateral,  coercive,  illegal 
and  discriminatory  measures  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates,  as  well  as  the  unjust  blockade  imposed  on 
Qatar. The obvious question this raises is whether the 
United Arab Emirates has been respecting human rights 
and complying with the international conventions that 
it is party to.
Ms. Gambhir (India): This morning, my delegation 
came to the Assembly to listen attentively to the new 
Foreign  Minister  of  Pakistan  outline  his  vision  for  a 
new Pakistan (see A/73/PV.14). What we heard instead 
was about a new Pakistan cast in the mould of the old 
Pakistan. I am therefore compelled to take the floor to 
exercise India’s right of reply by rejecting the baseless 
allegations made by the Foreign Minister of Pakistan.
Among  the  most  outrageous  and  preposterous 
were allegations relating to the horrifying terror attack 
on  a  Peshawar  school  four  years  ago.  Let  me  remind 
the new Government of Pakistan of the outpouring of 
sorrow  and  pain  in  India  that  followed  that  massacre 
of  innocent  children  in  2014.  Both  houses  of  India’s 
Parliament  expressed  solidarity  while  paying  respect 
to  the  memory  of  those  killed.  Schools  all  over  India 
observed two minutes of silence in their memory. The 
despicable insinuation made by the Foreign Minister of 
Pakistan dishonours the memory of the innocent lives 
lost to terrorists that day. His was a desperate attempt to 
look away from the monster of terror that Pakistan has 
itself created in its quest to destabilize its neighbours, 
whose  territory  it  covets.  Let  me  make  it  clear  to  the 
new  Government  of  Pakistan  that  the  entire  State  of 
Jammu and Kashmir is and will remain an integral part 
of India.
We have also heard Pakistan claim that it has turned 
the tide on terrorism. Let us fact-check that statement. 
Can Pakistan deny the fact that it has chosen to serve as 
host and patron to 132 of the United Nations-designated 
terrorists  and  22  terrorist  entities  sanctioned  as  of 
today under the sanctions regimes established pursuant 
to  Security  Council  resolutions  1267  (1999)  and  1988 
(2011)?  Will  Pakistan  deny  that  the  United  Nations-
designated  terrorist  Hafiz  Saeed  is  given  free  rein 
inside  Pakistan  to  spew  venom  and  set  up  candidates 
for electoral offices?
We have also noted an effort on the part of the new 
Pakistan  to  champion  human  rights.  That  is  vintage 
verbal duplicity, as is evident in the recent example of 
Princeton economics professor Atif Mian’s appointment 
to and removal from the Economic Advisory Council of 
Pakistan on the grounds that he belongs to a minority. 
Before  preaching  to  the  world,  the  championing  of 
human rights should begin at home.
We also heard today that Pakistan supports a report 
that no Member State asked for, none supported and on 
which no action was taken.
The new Foreign Minister of Pakistan chose to term 
India’s reaction to the gruesome killing of some of our 
security personnel by Pakistani-sponsored terrorists as 
based on flimsy grounds. While it may not be the case 
for Pakistan, for India, every loss of life counts. Hence 
our belief that talks and terror cannot go together.
In  conclusion,  what  we  have  heard  are  fake 
allegations and fake facts, which can only make for a 
fake vision. For a new vision to materialize, Pakistan 
must demonstrate that it has moved beyond a narrative 
of deception, deceit and distortion.
Ms. AlMatrooshi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 
Arabic): My country’s delegation would like to exercise 
its  right  of  reply  in  response  to  the  false  accusations 
and allegations made by the representative of Qatar in 
his statement.
34/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
It  is  deplorable  that  as  usual  Qatar  has  chosen  to 
engage in political manoeuvres aimed at exacerbating 
a  crisis  rather  than  respecting  its  obligations  under 
international law. Instead of focusing on its illegitimate 
attitudes,  which  must  be  addressed,  and  working  in 
good  faith  to  settle  the  crisis,  Qatar  is  trying  to  add 
an international dimension to that crisis by distorting 
and misrepresenting the objectives behind the justified 
and appropriate measures that were taken against Qatar 
by  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  with  the  Kingdom  of 
Bahrain, the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia.
Those  measures  were  in  response  to  Qatar’s 
destabilizing  actions  over  the  past  two  decades, 
including  its  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
Arab States and support for extremist ideologies across 
the  region,  as  well  as  the  provision  of  financing  and 
support  to  terrorist  organizations.  Those  are  not  only 
flagrant violations of international law, many Security 
Council 
resolutions  and  multilateral  agreements, 
they  also  constitute  a  serious  threat  to  the  security 
and  stability  of  Arab  States  and  many  other  States 
throughout the world. We underscore that our measures 
were taken in response to illegal activities carried out 
by the Qatari regime. In that regard, we stress that the 
United  Arab  Emirates  fully  respects  and  appreciates 
the people of Qatar.
In  that  regard,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
established humanitarian exemptions so that the majority 
of the Qatari people are not affected by the measures 
taken against the Qatari regime. The allegations made 
by Qatar are not based on any factual grounds.
We  reject  any  violation  of 
the  International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination.  We  deplore  the  fact  that  Qatar  has 
misrepresented the decision of the International Court 
of Justice regarding the temporary measures. We take 
this  opportunity  to  underscore  that  the  United  Arab 
Emirates fully complies with the measures decided on 
by  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  remind  the 
State of Qatar that the Court has called on both parties 
to  refrain  from  any  action  that  might  exacerbate  or 
prolong the crisis, making resolving it more difficult.
We  shall  continue  to  implement  our  measures 
against Qatar until we are certain that we are not going 
to  fall  victim  to  its  aggressive  policies.  Qatar  must 
change its attitude.
Mr.  Hatem  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  exercise  its  right  of  reply  in 
response to the allegations, deceptions and inaccuracies 
presented by the delegation of the State of Qatar. Four 
countries in the Arab Gulf region have exercised their 
sovereign right to boycott Qatar in order to protect their 
security and stability and to oppose Qatar’s interference 
in their internal affairs.
For  decades,  Qatar  has  continued  to  support  and 
finance  terrorist  groups,  destabilize  States’  security 
and  stability,  support  sectarianism  and  extremism, 
incite  violence,  and  coordinate  with  terrorist  groups 
with the aim of overthrowing regimes. The decision by 
the  four  States  is  in  exercise  of  their  sovereign  right, 
based on the provisions and principles of international 
law, to maintain their security and stability.
Qatar’s many actions are not limited to the events that 
took place in Bahrain in 2011. It has supported terrorist 
groups in Bahrain and elsewhere, while providing them 
with financial and media support. Bahrain has put up 
with Qatar’s interventions and aggressions, which have 
been documented historically and internationally. The 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  has  evidence  demonstrating  the 
interference of Qatar in its internal affairs and Qatari 
attempts to sow chaos, threaten peace and undermine 
the social fabric of our country.
One of our reasons for severing relations with Qatar 
is its lack of respect for the sovereignty of other States, 
as  well  as  its  policies  targeting  States’  security  and 
its  interference  in  their  internal  affairs,  contradicting 
the purposes and principles of the United Nations and 
provisions  of  international  law.  Qatar  has  sought  to 
disrupt the Gulf Cooperation Council by not respecting 
its own obligations under the 2013 Riyadh agreement 
and  its  implementing  mechanism,  as  well  as  the  2014 
supplementary agreement.
together  with 
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain, 
its 
brothers  in  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  and  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt,  has 
urged  Qatar  to  abide  by  the  agreed  related  charters 
and conventions and to stop supporting and financing 
terrorism  while  providing  safe  haven  to  terrorists. 
However,  Qatar  has  preferred  to  continue  supporting 
terrorism and cooperating with Iran, the main supporter 
of the terrorism that targets States’ security in the Arab 
Gulf region.
The allegations that our boycott of Qatar has caused 
human  rights  violations  are  not  true.  The  boycotting 
18-30196
35/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
States have committed no human rights violations. The 
Qatari and the Gulf peoples are brothers, and our States 
want to affirm that fact.
Qatar continues to focus on unrealistic issues and has 
tried to convince our Qatari brothers and international 
public opinion that the boycotting States are imposing 
an  economic  blockade  and  violating  Qatari  human 
rights. It claims that what the four States have done is a 
conspiracy that oppresses Qatar. Qatar has focused its 
foreign policy on three issues: oppression, conspiracy 
and the blockade. It is Qatar that has committed grave 
violations  of  its  own  citizens’  human  rights.  Qatar 
withdrew  Qatari  citizenship  from  certain  people 
related to the Goufran tribe, while violating the rights 
of foreign construction workers in Qatar, as stated in a 
report by the United States State Department.
With  regard  to  Qatar’s  allegation  that  a  blockade 
has  been  imposed  against  it,  all  that  the  four  States 
did was to exercise their sovereign right to close their 
airspace and territorial waters. That is a sovereign right 
and does not constitute a blockade as claimed by Qatar. 
However, its airport and skies are open, and Qatar can 
continue to carry out import and export activities. The 
Amir  of  Qatar  has  stated  in  his  speeches  that  Qatar 
is  not  affected  economically  or  commercially  by  the 
boycott and that its economy continues to grow. Another 
statement by the Qatari Minister of Economy notes that 
Qatar has not been harmed by the boycott measures, that 
all of the items that Qatar needs are available in Qatari 
markets and that it can undertake import activities by 
air and sea. All of that contradicts the Qatari allegations 
that there is an economic blockade and a plot against 
Qatar. The four States have agreed to open emergency 
air  corridors  to  and  from  Qatar  in  order  to  safeguard 
aviation, aircraft and passengers.
What  is  needed  to  resolve  the  crisis  with  Qatar? 
It  must  be  understood,  first,  that  the  measures  taken 
by  the  four  States  are  aimed  at  protecting  their 
security  and  stability.  The  core  of  the  crisis  is  that 
Qatar supports and finances extremism and terrorism. 
Its  interference  in  our  internal  affairs  must  change 
drastically. The four States will then be ready to engage 
in  dialogue  with  Qatar,  if  in  practice  it  demonstrates 
the will to stop supporting and financing terrorism and 
extremism,  disseminating  hate  speech  and  incitement 
and interfering in the internal affairs of the four States, 
in accordance with the six principles that ensure peace 
and stability in the region.
Qatar  must  commit  to  fully  implementing  the 
2013  Riyadh  agreement  and  the  2014  supplementary 
agreement, as well as its implementation mechanisms. 
It  must  also  demonstrate  a  commitment  to  engaging 
responsibly in dialogue with our States in the context 
of the Kuwaiti endeavours. The measures taken by the 
four States are sovereign measures aimed at remedying 
Qatar’s  behaviour,  which  seeks  to  break  up  the  Gulf 
Cooperation Council, destabilize the security of States 
in  the  region,  and  interfere  in  their  internal  affairs, 
in grave violation of their sovereign rights, which are 
guaranteed by international law and the Charter of the 
United Nations.
Mr. Warraich (Pakistan): I am taking the floor to 
exercise our right of reply to the statement just made by 
the representative of India. Her diatribe was a reflection 
not  only  of  India’s  deep-seated  hostility  towards  my 
country but also of the Indian habit of conflating fact 
with fabrication.
We were treated to another homily against terrorism. 
Listening to that exposition, one might indeed marvel 
at  the  saintly  behaviour  of  our  eastern  neighbour. 
But  who  are  more  qualified  to  talk  of  terrorism  than 
those who practice it as an instrument of State policy? 
The breeding ground of terrorism in our region is the 
fascistic  Rashtriya  Swayamsevak  Sangh  centres.  The 
claims  of  religious  superiority  are  being  perpetrated 
through straight patronage all across India.
Speaking  of  victims  of  terrorism,  I  would  like  to 
remind  the  Indian  representative  of  people  such  as 
Danish Rajab, a 24-year-old man from Srinagar, whose 
pellet-infested  face  was  deprived  of  vision  in  the  left 
eye  and  who  tells  a  story  of  misfortune  that  is  not 
unique to him. Asif Amacher, a 10-year-old boy, seeks 
similar answers from those who took his eyesight. The 
Indian  representative  could  have  spoken  of  the  agony 
of Farooq Ahmad Dar, who was tied to an army Jeep 
and driven in front of unarmed Kashmiri protesters to 
be used as a human shield — or perhaps of Kasir Bhat, 
who was run over and killed by a military vehicle.
A  country  such  as  India  —  where  members  of 
minorities,  including  Christians  and  Muslims,  are 
publicly lynched at the hands of Hindu zealots; where 
the  perpetrators  of  the  Samjhauta  Express  attack  in 
2007  receive  State  patronage;  where  an  unabashed 
Hindu  extremist,  Yogi  Adityanath,  who  openly 
advocates  the  religious  superiority  of  Hindus,  serves 
as  the  face  of  the  largest  Indian  state,  Uttar  Pradesh; 
36/38 
18-30196
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.15
where the right of Bengalis to citizenship in Assam has 
been  arbitrarily  rescinded,  rendering  them  suddenly 
stateless and subjecting them to being called termites 
by a prominent Indian leader; and where churches and 
mosques  are  torched  —  such  a  country  is  surely  not 
qualified to give sermons to others. In the illiberal India 
of today there is no room for dissent. India’s proclivity 
for violence is also no secret. In the last 70 years, India 
has been engaged in at least a dozen instances of the use 
of force against its neighbours and continues to face 17 
domestic insurgencies.
As  for  the  issue  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  I  would 
urge  the  Indian  representative  to  look,  for  once, 
beyond obfuscation and denial to answer a few simple 
questions  honestly  and  objectively.  Can  India  deny 
the  situation  in  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  which  is  an 
internationally recognized dispute on which there exist 
a  number  of  United  Nations  resolutions?  Can  India 
deny  that  the  United  Nations  has  expressly  called  for 
holding an impartial plebiscite to ascertain the wishes 
of the Kashmiri people? Can India deny that more than 
100,000  people  have  been  killed  in  Indian-occupied 
Jammu and Kashmir, a number that is well documented 
by  human  rights  organizations  and  the  international 
media?  Can  India  deny  that  Indian  military  forces 
have resorted to the indiscriminate use of force against 
innocent  civilians,  causing  widespread  death  and 
injury?  Since  the  Indian  occupation  of  Jammu  and 
Kashmir  has  little  claim  to  legitimacy,  the  true  face 
of the Indian occupation was exposed yet again by the 
recent report of the Office of the High Commissioner 
for Human Rights, which presents a litany of systematic 
violations  of  the  fundamental  human  rights  of  the 
Kashmiri people.
As  much  as  India  may  try,  credibility  cannot  be 
gained  by  discrediting  the  truth  but  rather  by  facing 
up  to  it.  The  truth  is  that  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  not 
a part of India. It never was, and it never will be. As 
for Security Council resolutions, they do not lapse with 
time, nor are they overtaken by circumstance. Law has 
no expiration date; morality has no sell-by date.
India  cannot  hide  behind  semantics  anymore.  It 
can regurgitate hollow allegations against Pakistan of 
cross-border terrorism, but it cannot hide its egregious 
State  terrorism  against  the  defenceless  people  in 
occupied Kashmir. It can arrogantly silence courageous 
Kashmiri  voices  such  as  that  of  Shujaat  Bukhari, 
but  it  cannot  suppress  the  voice  of  the  international 
the  High 
community,  which  was  articulated 
in 
Commissioner’s report. It can use the might of its guns 
to keep innocent Kashmiris under its illegal occupation 
for now, but not forever. The 100,000 Kashmiri dead in 
occupied Jammu and Kashmir tell an unremitting tale 
of India’s two-facedness. It is time for India to abandon 
its doublespeak. Reckless rhetoric and phony bravado 
may win it an election, but they cannot win it peace, nor 
indeed can they earn India any credibility.
Mr.  Al-Kuwari  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
repeated  accusations  that  we  have  heard  today  from 
the  regimes  of  Abu  Dhabi  and  Bahrain  are  baseless, 
and they seek to distort the image of the State of Qatar 
because  they  believe  that  will  help  to  undermine  its 
international  relations.  The  most  eloquent  response 
is  that  during  the  period  in  which  Qatar  has  been 
experiencing  that  unjust  blockade,  its  international 
partnerships  with  many  countries  and  various  United 
Nations bodies have been reinforced.
The State of Qatar has continued to strengthen its 
activities and initiatives with a view to achieving, among 
other  things,  United  Nations  objectives  in  countering 
terrorism and extremism, promoting a culture of peace, 
engaging in dialogue between civilizations and faiths, 
encouraging  education,  enhancing  human 
rights, 
achieving sustained peace, strengthening cybersecurity, 
fostering mediation and empowering youth and women.
We all know that the policies of the State of Qatar 
are based on its commitment to international law and 
to  refraining  from  any  act  that  could  impede  efforts 
to  overcome  the  challenges  that  the  international 
community is facing. We have therefore exercised self-
restraint and made a commitment to dialogue and the 
peaceful resolution of conflicts.
On  the  other  hand,  both  of  the  regimes  in  Abu 
Dhabi  and  Bahrain  have  continued  their  destabilizing 
policies in the region, as well as their grave violations 
of human rights. They have failed to present evidence to 
substantiate their allegations against the State of Qatar, 
despite calls to do so. That proves that the allegations are 
fallacious and that the measures based on them embody 
the  failure  of  those  States  to  deal  with  differences  of 
opinion. It further proves that their approach is based 
on  assault  and  incitement,  false  allegations  and  a 
disregard for brotherhood and good neighbourliness as 
well as the principles of friendly international relations. 
That  is  in  addition  to  their  disregard  for  cooperation 
aimed  at  strengthening  peace,  security  and  stability, 
18-30196
37/38
A/73/PV.15 
29/09/2018
as  well  as  human  rights,  development  and  addressing 
common challenges.
It  has  become  evident  that  the  attempts  by  the 
regimes  in  Abu  Dhabi  and  Bahrain  to  target  Qatar 
with  fabricated  allegations  are  a  continuation  of  the 
allegations  that  seek  to  justify  their  illegal  unilateral 
measures,  including  a  cybercrime  committed  by  the 
Emirates. International and credible local entities have 
agreed that the regime in Abu Dhabi has committed that 
crime  in  flagrant  violation  of  international  law.  That 
comes  at  a  time  when  international  efforts  are  being 
intensified  to  combat  cybercrime,  which  threatens 
international peace and security.
Since  under  the  Assembly’s  rules  of  procedure  I 
will  not  be  able  to  ask  for  the  floor  again  to  respond 
to further allegations after exercising my second right 
of  reply,  my  country  reserves  the  right  to  respond 
in  writing,  and  I  request  that  my  response  be  placed 
on record.
Ms. Al-Matrooshi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): I find myself obliged to respond once again 
to the repeated allegations made by the representative 
of Qatar. As we have repeatedly stated, the allegations 
with  regard  to  piracy  and  fabricated  statements  are 
completely erroneous. All four States reject the claim 
that  they  participated  in  an  alleged  plot  with  regard 
to  any  cybercrime.  They  call  on  the  Qatari  regime  to 
stop diverting attention from the issue at hand and to 
begin to change the attitude whereby it seeks to incite 
terrorism in the region and beyond.
We  deplore  the  fact  that  Qatar  is  spreading  false 
information  by  proclaiming  that  the  diplomatic  crisis 
was  caused  by  a  cyberattack.  There  were  no  such 
actions contributing to that escalation. Qatar has been 
financing extremist groups for the past 20 years. The 
region  is  experiencing  a  period  of  unprecedented 
turbulence, and Qatar is trying to make the most of that 
instability by fomenting extremism.
My country’s delegation will not waste its time by 
responding  to  the  fabrications  by  the  Qatari  regime. 
We have already clarified our dispute with Qatar with 
our brothers in the Kingdom of Bahrain, the Kingdom 
of  Saudi  Arabia  and  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt.  In 
that regard, I would like to note that the Qatari regime 
ignores the positive role that the United Arab Emirates 
has  been  playing  in  confronting  the  tremendous 
challenges  facing  the  region,  some  of  them  caused 
by Qatar.
The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m.
38/38 
18-30196
