United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
47th plenary meeting
Thursday, 6 December 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 3.55 p.m.
Agenda item 38 (continued)
The situation in the Middle East
Draft resolution (A/73/L.42)
Draft amendment (A/73/L.46)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  the  United  States  of  America  to 
introduce draft resolution A/73/L.42.
Mrs.  Haley  (United  States  of  America):  Today 
could  be  a  historic  day  at  the  United  Nations  or  just 
another  ordinary  day.  Today  could  be  a  day  during 
which  the  General  Assembly  unconditionally  speaks 
out with moral clarity against one of the most obvious 
and grotesque cases of terrorism in the world or it could 
be a day during which it refuses to do so.
Last  Friday, 
the  General  Assembly  adopted 
six — and I repeat six — resolutions condemning Israel 
in one single day (see A/73/PV.43). In an average year, 
the United Nations votes against Israel 20 times. Over 
the  years,  the  United  Nations  has  voted  to  condemn 
Israel over 500 times. That is what an ordinary day at 
the United Nations looks like.
As  much  as  the  United  States  finds  that  record 
appalling,  no  one  can  question  whether  the  United 
Nations is on record in its hostility towards the State of 
Israel. But for good measure, there will be another vote 
this afternoon that gives everyone another chance to put 
themselves on record in a way that goes against Israel. 
The question before us now is something very different, 
namely, whether the United Nations thinks terrorism is 
acceptable if — and only if — it is directed at Israel.
That  is  something  that  we  should  all  think 
deeply  about.  The  draft  resolution  we  have  before  us 
(A/73/L.42)  does  not  comment  about  the  specifics  of 
any peace agreement. As I have said, the United Nations 
has  commented  hundreds  of  times  on  what  it  would 
like to see in a peace agreement, and it will do it again 
later  today.  What  this  draft  resolution  does  is  stand 
for  a  foundational  element  of  peace.  That  foundation 
is the rejection of terrorism, because we all know that 
there can be no peace without a mutual agreement that 
terrorism is unacceptable.
Let us talk about some of the activities of Hamas, 
an entity designated by the United States, the European 
Union and others as a terrorist organization. The charter 
of Hamas openly calls for the destruction of Israel; its 
statements continually repeat that goal. Over the years, 
Hamas  has  used  several  barbaric  ways  of  conducting 
terrorist  attacks.  Initially,  it  used  suicide  bombers.  In 
the  1990s  and  early  2000s,  Hamas  members  armed 
with  bombs  boarded  Israeli  buses  and  entered  Israeli 
restaurants and detonated themselves, killing hundreds 
of  innocent  civilians  and  injuring  thousands  more. 
Since then, it has moved towards indiscriminately firing 
rockets into Israel from Gaza, launching thousands of 
them in the past five years, including more than 400 in 
a two-day period just last month. Neighbourhoods were 
targeted and a bus was hit by an anti-tank missile.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-41585 (E)
*1841585*

A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
More  recently,  Hamas  tactics  have  changed  again 
as it has adopted still more methods of killing Israeli 
civilians and damaging Israeli civilian property. It has 
launched flaming kites and balloons by the thousands, 
often  emblazoned  with  Nazi  symbols,  into  Israeli 
civilian  areas.  This  is  the  classic  case  of  terrorism. 
And yet, throughout all of this, the United Nations has 
never  —  and  I  repeat  never  —  adopted  a  resolution 
condemning  Hamas.  It  has  adopted  700  resolutions 
condemning  Israel  and  not  one  single  resolution 
condemning Hamas. That, more than anything else, is 
a condemnation of the United Nations itself.
Today,  at  this  moment,  the  United  Nations  can 
change  that  awful  record.  The  world  is  coming 
to  recognize  the  dangerous  and  troubling  rise  of 
anti-Semitism around the globe. The Secretary-General 
has  forcefully  spoken  out  against  it,  as  have  many 
Heads of State and parliaments around the world. And 
yet, what the United Nations chooses to do today will 
speak volumes about each country’s seriousness when 
it comes to condemning anti-Semitism, because there is 
nothing more anti-Semitic than saying that terrorism is 
not terrorism when it is used against the Jewish people 
and the Jewish State.
There is nothing more anti-Semitic than saying that 
we cannot condemn terrorism against Israel, while we 
would not hesitate for one minute to condemn the same 
acts  if  they  were  directed  against  any  other  country. 
I  have  watched  countries  that  would  never  take  such 
positions on their own come together here at the United 
Nations and abandon all sense of honesty, all sense of 
accuracy and all sense of truth.
Today we have an opportunity to change that. We 
can come together as the unified, moral and powerful 
force for peace that this institution’s founders intended 
it to be.
However, if that is not enough to motivate Assembly 
members,  then  I  ask  them  to  set  aside  the  death  and 
destruction that Hamas has inflicted on Israel for one 
moment.  I  ask  them  to  consider  the  suffering  that  it 
has  inflicted  upon  the  Palestinian  people  themselves. 
Hamas  has  been  the  de  facto  Government  of  Gaza 
since  2007,  and  yet,  after  11  years  of  Hamas  rule, 
Gaza has electricity for only a few hours a day. Only 
10 per cent of its population has access to safe drinking 
water.  Unemployment  is  approaching  50  per  cent  and 
climbing — one of the highest employment rates in the 
entire  world.  Hamas  uses  torture  and  arbitrary  arrest 
to  punish  its  political  opponents.  It  has  made  Gaza  a 
police State, all while it spends its resources, including 
United Nations resources, on rockets and terror tunnels. 
The people who have suffered by far the most because 
of  Hamas  are  the  Palestinian  people.  For  their  sake, 
the  world  should  speak  out  against  the  destruction  of 
Hamas and what it continues to cause.
The draft resolution before us would right a historic 
wrong.  More  importantly,  it  would  put  the  General 
Assembly on the side of truth and balance in the effort 
to achieve peace in the Middle East. The draft resolution 
condemns Hamas rocket attacks on innocent civilians. 
It  demands  that  Hamas  and  other  militia  groups  end 
all violent attacks, including the use of flaming kites, 
and  it  also  reaffirms  the  United  Nations  support  for 
a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  peace.  Before  the 
General  Assembly  can  credibly  advocate  compromise 
and reconciliation between the Palestinians and Israel, 
it  must  unambiguously  and  unconditionally  condemn 
Hamas terrorism on the record. Regardless of what any 
country  in  this  Hall  thinks  a  future  peace  settlement 
should  look  like,  support  for  this  draft  resolution  is 
an  essential  step  to  achieving  it.  Peace  must  be  built 
on truth.
I want to take a personal moment and ask my Arab 
brothers and sisters if the hatred is that strong. Is the 
hatred  towards  Israel  so  strong  that  they  will  defend 
a terrorist organization — one that is directly causing 
harm to the Palestinian people? Is it not time to let that 
go? For true peace and security in the entire region, is 
it not time for both sides to let this go? For the sake of 
peace and for the sake of this institution, I respectfully 
urge  my  colleagues  to  support  the  United  States 
draft resolution.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): My delegation has introduced draft 
amendment  A/73/L.46  to  draft  resolution  A/73/L.42, 
submitted by the United States of America.
As we have done on other occasions, we state our 
firm  commitment  to  all  international  efforts  that  are 
able to lead to a peaceful resolution of the occupation 
suffered  by  the  Palestinian  people.  In  this  regard,  we 
endorse  such  initiatives  as  the  Quartet  road  map,  the 
Madrid principles, the Arab Peace Initiative and others, 
which constitute a guarantee of just and lasting peace 
so  that  both  peoples  can  live  within  recognized  and 
safe borders.
2/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
Moreover, we reaffirm our conviction that the only 
long-term solution to the occupation of Palestine is the 
two-State solution, which would finally establish a free, 
sovereign and independent Palestinian State, within the 
pre-1967  international  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem 
as its capital, in accordance with the relevant Security 
Council and General Assembly resolutions. As we have 
indicated on other occasions, my delegation condemns 
any action that leads to violence or risks civilian lives. 
We ask all parties to give priority to the protection of 
civilians and infrastructure.
After a number of consultations, my delegation has 
decided  to  withdraw  the  draft  amendment  that  it  had 
submitted because we believe that doing so will help to 
guarantee that the General Assembly fulfils its role in 
this extremely important case. We take this opportunity 
to call on all representatives and Member States to join 
the initiative of adopting the draft resolution proposed 
by the delegation of the United States with a two-thirds 
majority of General Assembly members. I reiterate that 
my delegation has taken the decision to withdraw the 
draft amendment, and we ask the presidency to please 
take that decision into consideration.
The President: The Plurinational State of Bolivia 
has  withdrawn  the  draft  amendment  contained  in 
document A/73/L.46.
The Assembly will now proceed to consider draft 
resolution A/73/L.42.
I give the floor to the representative of Kuwait on 
a point of order.
Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As  my 
country is the Chair of the Group of Arab States for this 
month, I am speaking on behalf of that Group.
The  agenda 
item  under  consideration,  “The 
situation  in  the  Middle  East”,  is  directly  linked  to 
international  peace  and  security.  This  item  has  been 
on  the  agendas  of  the  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly for years. Accordingly, scores of resolutions 
condemning  the  Israeli  occupation  and  calling  for  its 
end have been adopted, as have resolutions denouncing 
the occupying Power’s policies and practices that violate 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  international  law 
and  international  humanitarian  law.  If  the  occupation 
had  been  brought  to  an  early  end  then  we  would  not 
have needed to adopt such resolutions. For this reason, 
the  Palestinian  question,  which  is  at  the  core  of  the 
Arab-Israeli  conflict,  is  an  issue  of  such  importance 
that  General  Assembly  decisions  on  it  require  a  two-
thirds majority of the members present and voting, in 
accordance with Article 18 of the Charter and rule 83 of 
the rules of procedure.
That  is  what  the  Arab  Group  believes.  We  hope 
that the presidency will conduct its work in accordance 
with the Charter and the General Assembly’s rules of 
procedure and take into account the precedent set in June 
2018,  by  which  the  previous  President  of  the  General 
Assembly decided that the situation in the Middle East 
is  an  important  issue  that  affects  international  peace 
and security (see A/ES-10/PV.38).
The President: I give the floor to the representative 
of the United States of America on a point of order.
Mrs. Haley (United States of America): A simple 
majority  is  required  for  the  adoption  of  the  draft 
resolution submitted by the United States (A/73/L.42). 
Since  coming  to  the  United  Nations,  everyone  in  this 
Hall has heard me talk about double standards and the 
fact  that  we  need  fairness  in  the  United  Nations.  We 
take  on  heavy  concerns  and  issues,  and  the  answers 
are not always easy. But if we do not exercise fairness, 
we have nothing else. This is not about a motion; it is 
about doing what is right. The General Assembly has 
never said anything — not one thing — about Hamas, 
even  when  we  all  agree  that  the  behaviour  of  Hamas 
undermines  any  prospects  for  peace.  The  General 
Assembly  has  never  uttered  the  word  “Hamas”  in 
any resolution.
Just  last  Friday,  there  was  no  decision  that 
resolutions  under  this  same  agenda  item  had  to  be 
adopted  by  a  two-thirds  majority  (see  A/73/PV.43). 
The Assembly did not act under such conditions then; 
similarly, there should be no decision that a two-thirds 
majority applies now.
There should be no double standards in this Hall. 
I  want  to  be  clear  about  the  consequences  of  this 
procedural  vote.  This  is  a  decision  meant  purely  to 
disrupt the adoption of the draft resolution put forward 
by the United States. Those putting forward this motion 
want  our  draft  resolution  to  fail.  My  Kuwaiti  brother 
knows  that,  as  does  the  Group  of  Arab  States.  The 
President should not let them have their way.
The United States urges all member States to stand 
with  us  on  this  procedural  vote.  Accordingly,  I  urge 
all member States to vote against a motion for a two-
thirds majority to be required. Let us vote for the draft 
18-41585
3/15
A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
resolution in the way that was intended — with a simple 
majority,  just  as  all  other  draft  resolutions  under  this 
agenda item were adopted last Friday.
The  President:  I  have  listened  carefully  to  the 
comments made by the representatives of Kuwait and 
the United States.
At  this  stage,  I  also  wish  to  inform  members 
that  I  have  been  approached  by  several  delegations 
concerning  the  majority  required  for  the  adoption  of 
draft resolution A/73/L.42. Having taken note of the fact 
that the text of the draft resolution deals with matters 
that have been dealt with by the Security Council, and 
taking into account the decision taken by the General 
Assembly during the 38th plenary meeting of the tenth 
emergency special session (see A/ES-10/PV.38), I shall 
put to the consideration of the Assembly the question of 
whether a two-thirds majority of members present and 
voting is required for the adoption of draft resolution 
A/73/L.42, in accordance with rules 83 and 84 of the 
Assembly’s rules of procedure.
We  will  now  proceed  to  take  a  decision  on  the 
question  of  whether  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the 
members present and voting is required for the adoption 
of draft resolution A/73/L.42.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Iran 
Indonesia, 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Argentina, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Belize,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Chad, 
China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Djibouti, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Ethiopia,  Gambia,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea, 
(Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Libya, Madagascar, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nicaragua, 
Niger,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Qatar,  Russian 
Federation,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Somalia,  South  Africa, 
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Uganda, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda, 
Australia,  Austria,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Dominica, Dominican Republic, Estonia, Finland, 
France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Haiti, 
Honduras,  Hungary,  India,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy, 
Kiribati, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Malawi,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mexico, 
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Nauru,  Netherlands,  Panama,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Samoa, San Marino, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
South Sudan, Spain, Sweden, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America, Uruguay, Vanuatu
Abstaining:
Armenia,  Bhutan,  Burkina  Faso,  Cabo  Verde, 
Chile,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Fiji,  Gabon, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Iceland, Jamaica, Kenya, 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Liechtenstein, 
Mongolia,  Nepal,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Palau, 
Philippines,  Saint  Lucia,  Sri  Lanka,  Switzerland, 
Timor-Leste
By 75 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions, the General 
Assembly decided that a two-thirds majority of the 
members present and voting was required for the 
adoption of draft resolution A/73/L.42.
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Guatemala 
informed  the  Secretariat  that  it  had  intended 
to vote against.]
The  President:  The  Assembly  has  decided  that 
a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  members  present  and 
voting is required for the adoption of draft resolution 
A/73/L.42.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  delegations  wishing  to 
deliver explanations of vote before the voting. I would 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Al-Mouallimi  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke 
in 
Arabic): I have the honour to speak on behalf of four 
States:  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  the  United  Arab 
4/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
Emirates, the Republic of Yemen and my own country, 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
I  would  like  to  state  that  we  are  in  complete 
agreement  with  my  colleague  the  representative  of 
Kuwait,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Arab 
States.  The  four  States,  in  their  national  capacities, 
would like to add the following comments.
Our States attach great importance to a lasting and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East as a strategic 
choice  in  favour  of  ending  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict, 
based  on  the  two-State  solution,  in  accordance  with 
international  terms  of  reference  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  of  2002,  which  calls  for  establishing  the 
Palestinian  State  along  the  4  June  1967  borders  with 
Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, the return of refugees, 
and  an  end  to  the  Israeli  occupation  of  all  Arab 
territories,  including  the  Syrian  Arab  Golan  and  the 
Lebanese territories.
Our  States  stress  that  the  lasting  settlement  of 
the  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  can  be  achieved  only 
by  peaceful  means,  in  accordance  with  international 
law  and  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions.  Israel 
must cease any aggression or use of force against the 
Palestinian people. It must also bring to an immediate 
end  all  of  the  illegal  Israeli  settlement  practices  and 
policies in the occupied State of Palestine.
Our  States  denounce  without  reservation  all 
terrorist acts, regardless of the identity of perpetrators 
or  victims.  We  also  condemn  all  States,  groups  or 
individuals that practice or incite terrorism. We believe 
that  there  is  no  justification  for  terrorist  acts.  We 
further  denounce  all  acts  of  violence  that  could  put 
civilian lives at risk. We call for respect of international 
human rights law and international humanitarian law, 
in  particular  the  protection  of  civilians.  All  measures 
necessary  for  protecting  civilians  and  their  welfare 
must be taken, and the perpetrators of such crimes must 
be held accountable.
In that regard, we take note of the some 500 United 
Nations resolutions denouncing Israel, the more recent 
of which was resolution ES-10/20, on the protection of 
Palestinian civilians. We call on Israel, the occupying 
Power,  to  abstain  from  all  acts  of  aggression  and  to 
fulfil  its  legal  commitments  and  responsibilities.  We 
condemn  any  act  that  leads  to  further  violence  or 
threatens civilian lives. We call on all stakeholders to 
make all forms of protest peaceful in nature. We also 
condemn the launching of rockets from the Gaza Strip 
into  Israeli  civilian  areas,  and  call  for  the  adoption 
of  urgent  measures  to  bring  about  an  immediate  and 
lasting ceasefire and, once a ceasefire is in place, for 
strict adherence to it.
From 1947 to the present, Israel has acted without 
respect  for  United  Nations  resolutions  or  any  ethical 
and humanitarian law, and has contravened numerous 
international  resolutions,  particularly  those  of  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council. Israel has 
no respect for the United Nations, of which it is a Member. 
Israel  has  no  respect  for  the  will  of  the  international 
community,  which  has  condemned  its  violations  of 
the rights of the Palestinians. For this reason, our four 
States will vote against draft resolution A/73/L.42.
Indeed,  the  draft  resolution  attempts  to  cover  up 
Israeli violations against the Palestinians and seeks to 
undermine the two-State solution to which we aspire. 
The  draft  resolution  diverts  attention  away  from  the 
major  issues  of  the  conflict,  namely,  occupation, 
settlement  activity  and  the  blockade.  These  are  the 
three  fundamental  challenges  that  Palestine  is  facing, 
be  it  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  the  West  Bank  or  Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif.  We  must  not  turn  our  attention  away  from 
these  obstacles  to  peace.  Accordingly,  we  call  on  all 
Member  States  to  vote  against  the  draft  resolution 
before us today.
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  I  am 
taking the floor to explain our position regarding draft 
resolution A/73/L.42, entitled “Activities of Hamas and 
other militant groups in Gaza”.
The  draft  resolution  is  based  on  deception,  as  it 
totally ignores the main root cause of the conflict — the 
decades-long illegal occupation of Palestine by Israel. 
That occupation remains at the epicentre of all conflicts 
in the Middle East. It is the main source of more than 
seven  decades  of  Israel’s  brutal  practices  towards 
the  Palestinian  people.  It  is  the  root  cause  of  the 
continued  violation  of  the  fundamental  human  rights 
of the Palestinians and other Arabs living under Israel’s 
occupation. It is the main reason for the suffering and 
injustice imposed on the Palestinians, resulting in the 
displacement  of  approximately  6  million  refugees.  It 
is  why  the  Palestinians,  Muslim  and  Christian  alike, 
suffer from a situation tantamount to ethnic cleansing.
Worse  still,  in  the  Gaza  Strip  nearly  2  million 
Palestinians  continue  to  live  under  the  suffocating 
Israeli-imposed  closure.  The  unlawful, 
inhumane 
blockade  has  made  Gaza  an  uninhabitable  open-
18-41585
5/15
A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
air  prison  that  is  designed  to  be  unsustainable  for 
human 
life.  The  situation  represents  an  actual, 
massive  and  collective  punishment  against  the  entire 
Gaza  population,  including  women  and  children.  It 
constitutes a war crime.
One  of  the  latest  cruelties  committed  by  Israel  is 
the killing of more than 160 Palestinians and the injury 
of thousands more during the peaceful Great March of 
Return, in Gaza. Another reality on the ground that the 
draft resolution intentionally and entirely ignores is the 
continued illegal settlement activities in the Palestinian 
territories,  which  constitute  not  only  a  flagrant 
violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention, but also a 
war crime. Furthermore, Israel’s so-called participation 
in the peace process has merely been a shroud covering 
its policy of aggression and expansion. Emboldened by 
the  changes  in  the  United  States  political  landscape, 
which  led  to  America’s  recognition  of  Jerusalem  as 
the so-called capital of Israel and the relocation of its 
Embassy  to  Jerusalem,  the  Israeli  occupying  regime 
has  conveniently  wrapped  all  of  this  disrespect  in 
that shroud.
Israel also continues to totally negate any right of 
the Palestinians to self-determination. This was seen in 
the recent enactment of the racist Jewish nation-State 
law.  In  addition,  the  regime  has  taken  unprecedented 
measures  to  accelerate  the  Judaization  of  Jerusalem, 
alter 
its  demographic  composition  and  religious 
and  cultural  identity,  and  eliminate  the  Palestinian, 
Christian and Muslim presence in the holy city.
All  of  the  foregoing  measures  have  been  taken 
while the Security Council was failing to live up to its 
responsibilities to put an end to the illegal occupation 
and  decades-long  tragedy.  This  failure  is  the  direct 
result of the sustained and unequivocal support of the 
United States for all of the Israeli regime’s policies and 
practices.  Such  policies  greatly  embolden  the  regime 
to continue its illegal policies and inhumane practices 
against  the  Palestinian  people,  in  clear  violation  of 
international 
international  humanitarian  and 
human  rights  laws,  United  Nations  resolutions  and, 
more importantly, the principle of humanity.
law, 
The  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  represents 
yet another instance of United States support for Israel’s 
narrative  of  the  conflict,  justifying  its  aggression 
towards the Palestinians. The draft is a deceptive attempt 
to deflect the attention of the international community 
from the root causes of the Middle East conflict — the 
occupation  of  Palestinian  territory.  The  United  States 
initiative intends to undermine the sustained and strong 
international support for the realization of the cause of 
Palestine. It tries to disregard relevant United Nations 
resolutions, adopted over decades in support of the full 
realization of the Palestinian’s rights. Therefore, it not 
only  targets  Hamas,  but  also  multilateralism  and  the 
long-standing  support  given  to  the  Palestinian  people 
by the Organization and its Member States.
The Islamic Republic of Iran categorically rejects 
the  draft  resolution.  We  will  vote  against  it  and  urge 
all  Member  States  to  do  likewise  and  clearly  reject 
its  adoption.  We  recognize  Hamas  as  a  legitimate 
resistance  movement  fighting  for  the  liberation  of 
Palestinian  territory  from  foreign  occupation.  Hamas 
is part and parcel of the Palestinian people and defends 
Palestinian civilians against Israeli military aggression. 
By any measure, this is an inherent and legitimate right 
under international law.
Moreover, in recent years, Hamas has consistently 
played  a  significant  and  responsible  role  in  the 
maintenance  of  security  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  has 
remained  committed  to  the  elements  of  the  2014 
ceasefire agreement. Therefore, adopting any decision 
against Hamas will only serve the occupying regime’s 
interests.  The  adoption  of  such  a  distorted  draft 
resolution will also further embolden the Israeli regime 
to  continue  its  years-long  brutal  blockade  of  Gaza, 
thereby worsening the already dire humanitarian crisis 
there. It will also send a very erroneous and frustrating 
message to the Palestinians, in particular in Gaza.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that peace in 
the Middle East cannot be achieved through coercion, 
intimidation  or  discriminatory  or  selective  policies. 
Condemning the legitimate struggle of the Palestinians 
against  occupation  is  illegal,  illegitimate  and  void  of 
political  wisdom,  and  is  therefore  unacceptable.  Any 
solution  to  the  crisis  requires  the  termination  of  the 
occupation  and  the  restoration  of  all  the  inalienable 
rights  of  the  Palestinians,  including  their  right  to 
return,  to  self-determination  and  to  establish  their 
own  independent  and  viable  State  of  Palestine,  with 
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital.  Despite  all  of  the 
brutalities and recklessness committed by Israel, along 
with  the  unwavering  support,  plots  and  plans  of  the 
United States in this regard, we are confident that all 
such rights will be realized and that the force of logic 
will prevail over the logic of force.
6/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
Mr. Alotaibi (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the Group of Arab States, I call on all Member States 
to vote against draft resolution A/73/L.42. Indeed, we 
believe  that  the  draft  resolution  draws  attention  away 
from the deep-rooted causes of the Palestinian question 
and contributes to undermining international consensus 
on it.
Lasting, comprehensive and just peace in the Middle 
East  is  based  on  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions, 
including  Security  Council  resolution  2334  (2016), 
the  land-for-peace  principle,  the  Quartet  road  map 
and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  which  was  adopted  by 
all Arab countries during the Beirut summit, in 2002. 
The Initiative states that peace and normalization with 
Israel must be preceded by its ending the occupation of 
Palestinian and Arab territories that have been occupied 
since 1967. We reaffirm our support for the two-State 
solution whereby Israeli and Palestine would live side 
by  side  in  peace  and  security,  within  the  recognized 
pre-1967 borders.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.42,  entitled 
“Activities  of  Hamas  and  other  militant  groups  in 
Gaza”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda, 
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, 
Belize, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Cabo  Verde,  Canada,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa 
Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati, 
Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Nauru,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Norway,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  San  Marino,  Serbia, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tuvalu, 
Ukraine,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern  Ireland,  United  States  of  America, 
Uruguay
Against:
(Plurinational  State 
Algeria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Bolivia 
of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  China,  Comoros, 
Congo,  Cuba,  Djibouti,  Egypt,  Gambia,  Guinea, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Re-
public, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Oman, 
Pakistan, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Somalia,  South  Africa, 
Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tunisia, 
Turkey,  United  Arab  Emirates,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Afghanistan, Angola, Armenia, Barbados, Bhutan, 
Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Ecuador, 
El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Ethiopia,  Gabon, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  India, 
Kenya, Mongolia, Nepal, Philippines, Saint Lucia, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Sri 
Lanka,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste,  Tonga,  Trinidad 
and Tobago, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Vanuatu
Draft resolution A/73/L.42 was rejected by 87 votes 
to 57, with 33 abstentions.
[Subsequently, the delegations of Afghanistan and 
South Sudan informed the Secretariat that they had 
intended to vote against.]
The  President:  Before  giving  the  floor  to  those 
delegations wishing to deliver explanations of vote after 
the voting, may I remind delegations that explanations 
of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Danon  (Israel):  Today’s  draft  resolution, 
contained 
in  document  A/73/L.42,  presented  an 
opportunity  for  redemption.  Proposed  by  the  United 
States  and  supported  by  a  global  coalition,  the  draft 
resolution  offered  the  United  Nations  another  chance 
to finally condemn Hamas. We thank the United States 
and  Ambassador  Haley  for  standing  up  for  what  is 
right,  and  we  are  proud  that  a  plurality  of  Member 
18-41585
7/15
A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
States  stood  by  the  truth  and  took  a  moral  stand  by 
condemning Hamas for its relentless acts of terror.
Today we achieved plurality. That plurality would 
have  equated  to  a  majority  if  the  vote  had  not  been 
hijacked by a political procedural move. In one strong 
courageous  voice,  we  could  have  brought  Hamas  to 
justice.  Those  Member  States  that  voted  against  the 
draft  resolution  should  be  ashamed  of  themselves.  I 
ask those countries to wait until they have to deal with 
terrorism on their own territories. Their silence in the 
face of evil reveals their true colours and tells us what 
side  they  are  really  on  —  the  side  that  does  not  care 
for the lives of innocent Israelis and Palestinians who 
have  fallen  victim  to  the  terrorists  of  Hamas.  Those 
who endorse terrorism today will be forced to face its 
deadly consequences tomorrow.
We salute the children in Israel — in Sderot, Netivot 
and Ashkelon — who so bravely endure the unthinkable 
dangers of falling rockets. We also think of the people 
of Gaza; they deserve a brighter future, not one that is 
controlled by a regime of terrorists. The world will not 
be silent until Hamas stops its violent and illegal ways. 
Its time is up. Whether or not they choose to admit it, all 
Member States in this Hall know full well that Hamas 
is a radical Islamic terror organization that is dedicated 
to the destruction of Israel.
For  the  past  13  years,  since  Israel  completely 
withdrew  from  the  Gaza  Strip  and  Hamas  violently 
took  it  over,  Hamas  terrorists  have  launched  over 
13,000  rockets  into  Israeli  communities,  deliberately 
targeting  civilians.  In  November,  Hamas  fired  nearly 
500 rockets into Israel over a two-day period. Hamas 
is committing a double war crime by launching rockets 
from  Palestinian  neighbourhoods  in  Gaza  directly 
into  Israeli  civilian  population  centres.  Hamas  has 
constructed  nearly  40  terror  tunnels  that  infiltrate 
Israeli border towns to kidnap and kill Israelis. We have 
exposed and neutralized 15 tunnels this year alone, most 
recently  in  October.  Hamas  has  carried  out  hundreds 
of suicide bombings, shootings and stabbings that have 
killed  and  wounded  thousands  of  innocent  people.  It 
has  organized  endless,  violent  riots  on  the  security 
fence between Israel and Gaza, seeking to invade and 
overrun  Israel  and  encourage  young  Palestinians  to 
send flaming materials into Israel.
Hamas  exploits  the  people  of  Gaza  —  its  own 
Palestinian  brothers  and  sisters  —  as  human  shields, 
an  activity  that  is  both  illegal  and  deplorable.  Hamas 
deprives its people of their basic human rights and steals 
billions of dollars of humanitarian aid, paid for by the 
taxes of citizens of United Nations Member States, to 
fund its terror ambitions. Day in and day out, Hamas 
denies Israel’s very right to exist.
Hamas is also in flagrant violation of international 
law by continuing to hold hostage four young Israelis 
whom  it  has  captured.  In  2014,  Hamas  killed  and 
kidnapped  Oron  Shaul  and  Hadar  Goldin.  Hamas  is 
also holding Avraham Mengistu and Hisham Al-Sayed, 
two  young  Israeli  civilians  who  suffer  from  mental 
illnesses.  Hamas  has  refused  to  provide  any  sign  of 
life to the families of those men and is not permitting 
visits by the International Committee of the Red Cross. 
The United Nations has a legal and moral obligation to 
ensure the return of our boys.
While Hamas flagrantly violates international law, 
its leadership has the audacity to complain about Israel 
to  the  United  Nations.  Just  last  week,  Hamas  leader 
Ismail Haniyeh sent a letter to the United Nations that all 
Member States received, condemning Israel and calling 
for  more  violence.  Ismail  Haniyeh  approached  you, 
Madam President. He is a man who has praised Osama 
bin Laden and referred to him as a holy warrior. The 
blood of countless innocent lives drips from his hands. 
There is no difference between the evil of Hamas and 
the barbarity of the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, 
Al-Qaida  or  Boko  Haram.  All  of  those  organizations 
are committed to terrorizing innocent people.
Today,  as  the  Jewish  people  celebrate  the  miracle 
of  Hanukkah,  a  plurality  of  Member  States  took  a 
moral  stand.  They  supported  the  draft  resolution  and 
unequivocally condemned Hamas. Other nations chose 
to vote against the draft resolution. Some sat passively 
on  the  sidelines  in  an  attempt  to  appear  neutral  or 
objective. Let me be clear — there is no such thing here 
as  neutrality.  There  is  no  such  thing  as  “both  sides”. 
There  is  no  moral  equivalency.  There  is  a  terrorist 
organization 
fragrantly 
violating the law, and there is a State that protects it. 
Today,  the  majority  of  the  international  community 
has  exposed  Hamas;  others  have  turned  a  blind  eye. 
It  will  not  be  long  until  all  nations  of  the  world  stop 
turning their backs on the thousands of Palestinian and 
Israeli  victims  of  terror  and  finally  make  a  clear  and 
unequivocal statement condemning Hamas.
that  endangers  civilians, 
Ms.  Pierce 
(United  Kingdom):  The  United 
Kingdom  aligns  itself  with  the  explanation  of  vote 
8/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
that  will  shortly  be  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Austria on behalf of the European Union. The following 
statement will be made in our national capacity.
The  United  Kingdom  voted  in  favour  of  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.42  and  we  thank  the  United  States 
for  introducing  it,  because  it  is  right  that  Hamas  be 
condemned  for  its  indiscriminate  use  of  rocket  fire 
and  other  weaponry  against  Israeli  communities  and 
civilians.  The  United  Kingdom  supports  and  calls 
for  a  comprehensive  peace  between  the  parties,  in 
accordance with relevant United Nations resolutions.
The  draft  resolution  makes  it  very  clear  that  all 
acts of violence against civilians are unacceptable. The 
United  Kingdom  calls  on  all  actors  to  show  restraint 
and refrain from any further violence. Palestinians have 
the right to engage in peaceful protest and Israel has the 
right to defend itself, but it should use restraint in the 
use of live fire. We are deeply concerned by casualties 
on  both  sides,  including  the  number  of  Palestinian 
fatalities this year.
Hamas faces a decision about whether it is prepared 
to  accept  the  Quartet  principles  and  join  efforts  for 
peace or whether it will continue to use terror, with all 
the consequences for the people of Gaza and Israel. We 
therefore  fully  support  the  draft  resolution’s  call  for 
tangible  steps  towards  intra-Palestinian  reconciliation 
and  concrete  steps  to  reunite  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the 
West Bank under the Palestinian Authority and ensure 
its effective functioning in the Gaza Strip. We welcome 
the  efforts  of  Egypt,  the  United  Nations  Special 
Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process and the 
wider international community towards that goal.
We  remain  gravely  concerned  about  the  dire 
humanitarian situation in Gaza. The immediate priority 
must be to reduce tensions and avoid another conflict. 
We expect Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and Israel 
to do their utmost to prevent further escalation. We have 
frequent  discussions  with  the  Government  of  Israel 
and  the  Palestinian  Authority  about  the  need  to  ease 
restrictions  on  Gaza.  The  United  Kingdom  welcomes 
recent  efforts  to  improve  the  humanitarian  situation, 
but much more needs to be done. The people of Israel 
and Gaza have the right to live without constant fear for 
their security. Both peoples have the right to live safely 
in peace. Urgent steps need to be taken to address the 
underlying causes of the conflict.
Now  more  than  ever  we  need  a  political  process 
that  delivers  the  two-State  solution,  based  on  the 
well-established  parameters  that  the  United  Kingdom 
continues to see as the only viable framework for a just 
and lasting peace. For that reason, the United Kingdom 
would  also  have  voted  in  favour  of  the  other  draft 
resolution  on  the  matter,  had  it  been  submitted.  The 
United  Kingdom  remains  committed  to  working  with 
both parties and regional and international partners in 
support of that goal.
Mr. Kickert (Austria): I have the honour to deliver 
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU) 
and  its  member  States,  to  which  the  United  Kingdom 
has  just  aligned  itself.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia and Albania; the country of the Stabilization and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; and the European Free Trade Association 
country  Liechtenstein,  member  of 
the  European 
Economic Area; as well as Ukraine, align themselves 
with this statement.
While  reconfirming  that  the  EU  supported  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.42,  on  the  activities  of  Hamas  and 
other militant groups in Gaza, I would like to once again 
reiterate  and  emphasize  the  EU’s  strong,  continued 
commitment  to  the  internationally  agreed  parameters 
for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East, based 
on  international  law,  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  previous  agreements.  Any  peace  plan 
that  fails  to  recognize  those  internationally  agreed 
parameters would risk being condemned to failure.
The EU is truly convinced that the achievement of 
a  two-State  solution  based  on  the  1967  borders,  with 
Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  both  States,  that  meets 
Israeli  and  Palestinian  security  needs  and  Palestinian 
aspirations  for  statehood  and  sovereignty,  ends  the 
occupation  and  resolves  all  final-status  issues,  in 
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolutions  1860 
(2009) and 2334 (2016) and previous agreements, is the 
only  viable  and  realistic  way  to  end  the  conflict  and 
achieve just and lasting peace. The EU will continue to 
work towards that end with both parties and its regional 
and international partners.
The  EU  is  deeply  concerned  by  the  situation  in 
Gaza. Gaza is home to 2 million people who struggle 
to access basic services, sufficient water and electricity 
supply.  The  humanitarian  situation 
is  dire.  We 
commend  the  efforts  of  the  Special  Coordinator  for 
the Middle East Peace Process, Nickolay Mladenov, to 
18-41585
9/15
A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
mitigate  the  risk  of  further  deterioration  and  improve 
the humanitarian situation.
More  generally,  the  EU  would  like  to  express  its 
support  for  all  humanitarian  actors,  in  particular  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA).  UNRWA’s 
assistance to Palestinian refugees is a factor for stability 
in  Gaza  and  the  region.  The  immediate  priority  must 
be to reduce the tensions and avoid another conflict in 
Gaza. We expect the de facto authorities in Gaza to do 
their utmost to prevent further escalation. The EU urges 
all actors concerned to act with the utmost restraint to 
avoid further loss of life, prevent any escalation and not 
resort  to  violence  or  exploit  peaceful  demonstrations 
for other means.
While  recalling  Israel’s  right  to  self-defence, 
we  expect  the  Israeli  authorities  to  fully  abide  by  the 
principles of necessity and proportionality in its use of 
force. A return of the Palestinian Authority to the Gaza 
Strip is indispensable to durably improve the conditions 
and humanitarian situation. However, to ensure lasting 
results, a fundamental change to the situation in Gaza 
is  crucial.  That  needs  to  include  an  end  to  the  Israeli 
policy of closure and the full opening of crossing points, 
while addressing Israel’s legitimate security concerns.
The EU will continue to support the United Nations 
and Egyptian efforts towards the reunification of Gaza 
and  the  West  Bank  under  one  single  and  legitimate 
Palestinian  Authority.  The  EU  will  continue  to  work 
with  its  partners,  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians, 
regional actors and the Middle East Quartet to that end. 
There  is  a  pressing  need  for  a  political  horizon  to  be 
restored. That is why, in recent months, the EU and its 
member States have been so vocal in reconfirming their 
united,  consolidated  position  in  support  of  the  two-
State solution, with Jerusalem as the future capital of 
both States.
Mr.  Alrowaiei  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  reaffirms  its  steadfast  position 
in  support  of  the  brotherly  Palestinian  people  and  all 
efforts  to  achieve  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace 
between  Palestinians  and  Israelis,  leading  to  the 
establishment  of  the  independent  Palestinian  State 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with 
the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  principles  of  the  two-
State solution and relevant resolutions of international 
legitimacy and the United Nations.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  strongly  condemns  and 
rejects all forms of violence, extremism, aggression and 
terrorism against civilians, regardless of the causes and 
motivations.  We  stress  the  importance  of  respecting 
relevant laws and conventions.
Mr. Hattrem (Norway): Norway voted in favour of 
draft resolution A/73/L.42 and would like to deliver an 
explanation of vote.
The  text  of  the  draft  resolution  is,  in  our  view, 
not  strong  enough  with  respect  to  the  principle  of  a 
negotiated two-State solution as our strategic goal. The 
references in the text to the requirements of international 
law and relevant United Nations resolutions are, in our 
view, too weak in that respect. Norway supports Egypt’s 
work for Palestinian reconciliation and rapprochement. 
The draft resolution, as we see it, is unclear regarding 
the fundamental requirements for a Palestinian national 
unity Government, as expressed in the Quartet criteria.
Norway will continue its work as Chair of the Ad 
Hoc  Liaison  Committee  for  the  Coordination  of  the 
International Assistance to Palestinians to stabilize the 
situation  in  Gaza,  reinforce  international  support  for 
the  Palestinian  Authority  and  increase  humanitarian 
efforts in Gaza.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): The Government of Mexico voted in favour 
of draft resolution A/73/L.42, because it emphatically 
condemns  all  forms  of  violence  committed  against 
civilian  populations  and  humanitarian  assistance 
workers by any actor and in any circumstances, as well 
as all forms and manifestations of terrorist acts.
Mexico supports a resumption of dialogue in order to 
reach a fair and lasting solution that is based on the two-
State  solution,  namely,  with  Israel  and  Palestine  both 
able to live in peace within secure and internationally 
recognized  borders,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
Security Council and General Assembly resolutions.
Mr.  Nguyen  (Viet  Nam):  Viet  Nam  highly 
appreciates and supports all efforts of the international 
and  regional  communities  to  move  the  Middle  East 
peace process forward for the sake of peace, stability, 
cooperation and development in the region. We are of 
the view that the conflict can be settled only through 
peaceful negotiations aimed at a comprehensive and just 
solution, on the basis of the relevant Security Council 
resolutions  and  respect  for  the  fundamental  rights  of 
10/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
the  Palestinian  people  and  the  legitimate  right  of  all 
countries to live side by side in peace and security.
We regret that we were not in a position to vote in 
favour of draft resolution A/73/L.42, on the activities of 
Hamas and other militant groups in Gaza. At the same 
time, we reiterate our firm position of condemning all 
acts of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
Mr.  Skoknic  Tapia  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
The  Government  of  Chile  voted  in  favour  of  draft 
resolution A/73/L.42, and wishes to clarify our position 
on the issue.
Chile reiterates its full and unconditional support 
for  resolution  181  (II),  whereby  the  international 
community  decided  to  establish  two  States  —  one 
Arab  and  one  Jewish.  Accordingly,  Chile  recognizes 
and  maintains  diplomatic  ties  with  both  the  States  of 
Israel and Palestine. We also confirm that both have the 
right to live as independent and democratic States, in 
peaceful coexistence and within safe and internationally 
recognized  borders  that  must  be  determined  through 
bilateral negotiations between the parties.
For our country, there is no reason or context that 
can excuse or justify acts of terrorism. We also reaffirm 
that the measures adopted by States to fight terrorism 
must  fulfil  commitments  arising  from  international 
humanitarian law and the Charter of the United Nations. 
Chile  calls  for  an  intensification  of  efforts  to  reach  a 
lasting peace and for the Palestinian Authority to return 
to Gaza without delay. We urge Israel to lift the severe 
restrictions  imposed  on  Palestinian  citizens  in  Gaza 
and  to  improve  the  critical  difficult  living  conditions 
affecting  2  million  people  in  those  territories.  We 
condemn  all  acts  of  provocation  and  violence,  which 
above all affect the civilian populations of both sides, 
and we regret the disproportionate use of force by Israeli 
forces, especially the use of munitions and weapons of 
war as a tool to repress unarmed protesters.
To  conclude,  Chile  rejects  any  attempt  to  link 
or  associate  terrorism  with  the  Palestinian  people 
as  a  whole.  Our  country  hosts  the  largest  number  of 
Palestinian  people  outside  the  Middle  East.  In  that 
regard,  Chile  is  deeply  grateful  for  the  contribution 
of the Palestinian community to the development and 
progress of our country.
Ms. Yánez Loza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): My 
delegation  abstained  in  the  voting  and  would  like  to 
make the following explanation of vote.
As a Member State, we have a duty and responsibility 
to  support  diplomatic,  regional  and 
international 
efforts between the parties to ensure progress towards 
a  political,  definitive  and  fair  solution  for  all  parties 
with regard to the situation in the Middle East and the 
Palestinian question. Such a solution must be based on 
the existence of two States — Palestine and Israel — as 
the  only  path  to  achieving  peace  and  stability  in  the 
Middle East.
Ecuador  has  reiterated  its  full  support  for  the 
spirit and nature of the relevant General Assembly and 
Security  Council  resolutions,  in  particular  resolution 
2334 (2016), and all initiatives that have accompanied 
the process of dialogue and negotiation between Israel 
and Palestine. Ecuador believes that the situation in the 
Middle  East  and  the  Palestinian  question  should  not 
be  limited  to  condemning  Hamas  alone  and  urgently 
require a peaceful and negotiated solution.
In  conclusion,  Ecuador  condemns  all  forms  of 
terrorist  acts  and  reiterates  its  call  for  a  cessation  to 
violence, regardless of where it originates.
Mr.  Blanchard  (Canada):  The  fact  that  today  a 
plurality  of  countries  condemned  the  role  of  Hamas 
in perpetuating Gaza’s misery, as well as the threat it 
poses  to  Israel,  is  a  positive  step.  Today,  we  still  see 
an opportunity for a more comprehensive approach to 
this  issue  in  the  General  Assembly,  but  we  all  know 
that  votes  and  resolutions  will  not  be  the  solution  to 
the conflict. Let us use this opportunity to encourage 
and  help  both  sides  to  resume  direct  negotiations 
and  work  towards  achieving  a  lasting  peace  for  their 
people.  Canada  remains  committed  to  the  goal  of  a 
comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle 
East, including the creation of a Palestinian State living 
side by side in peace and security with Israel.
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 38.
Agenda item 38 (continued)
The situation in the Middle East
Draft resolution (A/73/L.49)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Ireland  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.49.
18-41585
11/15
A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
Ms.  Byrne  Nason  (Ireland):  Ireland  is  pleased 
introduce  draft  resolution  A/73/L.49,  entitled 
the 
lasting  peace 
just  and 
in 
to 
“Comprehensive, 
Middle East.”
Such  a  peace,  unfortunately,  is  not  currently  in 
sight. Resolving the Middle East conflict, 25 years after 
the signing of the Oslo Accords, will require a reversal 
of  the  current  negative  developments  on  the  ground. 
Settlement activity, violence and terror all lead us away 
from progress towards a negotiated two-State solution, 
with Jerusalem as the future capital of both States.
As the draft resolution before the General Assembly 
indicates, a two-State solution must be based on long-
standing  and  agreed  parameters,  including  an  end  to 
the occupation that began in 1967. A settlement of the 
conflict  must  meet  Israeli  and  Palestinian  security 
needs  and  Palestinian  aspirations  to  statehood  and 
sovereignty, and resolve all final status issues. Ireland, 
along  with  its  partners  in  the  European  Union,  will 
continue to work towards that end with both parties and 
its regional and international partners.
support, 
important 
international 
As  a  country  that  has  endured  and  overcome 
conflict  and  has  nurtured  a  successful  peace  process 
with 
Ireland 
remains  hopeful  that  divisions  can  be  overcome  and 
long-standing  enmities  set  aside.  That  will  require 
leadership  and  vision,  along  with  the  active  support 
of  the  international  community.  A  comprehensive, 
just and lasting peace in the Middle East is possible. It 
must be based on agreed and long-standing parameters 
that  recognize  the  legitimate  aspirations  and  security 
needs  of  both  the  Palestinian  and  the  Israeli  peoples. 
We believe that it is important to reaffirm those shared 
understandings, and we urge all our fellow Members of 
the United Nations to support the draft resolution today.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.49,  entitled 
“Comprehensive, 
the 
Middle East.”
lasting  peace 
just  and 
in 
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Azerbaijan, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Djibouti, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece, 
Grenada,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  San 
Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.49?
Mr.  Wagner  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  requests  a  recorded  vote  on  draft 
resolution A/73/L.49.
The President: A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
Against:
Australia, Israel, Liberia, Marshall Islands, Nauru, 
United States of America
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  Canada,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Equatorial 
Guinea,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Myanmar,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Samoa,  South  Sudan,  Timor-Leste, 
Vanuatu
12/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.49  was  adopted  by  156 
votes to 6, with 12 abstentions (resolution 73/89).
The President: I will now give the floor to those 
delegations wishing to deliver explanations of vote after 
the voting. May I remind delegations that explanations 
of vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Gafoor (Singapore): Singapore voted in favour 
of draft resolution A/73/L.42, which was not adopted, 
and  resolution  73/89,  which  was  just  adopted.  We 
believe that both the resolution and the draft resolution 
are interlinked, which is why they were considered at 
the same plenary meeting.
Singapore’s  position  can  be  understood  by  taking 
into  account  the  content  of  the  resolution  and  draft 
resolution. I wish to underline that our position today 
has also been guided by two key principles.
First, Singapore does not condone acts of violence 
against  civilian  targets,  including  the  launching  of 
rockets  into  civilian  areas.  We  acknowledge  Israel’s 
right to self-defence and to take proportionate measures 
in  the  protection  of  its  civilian  population.  Secondly, 
we  reaffirm  our  long-standing  position  in  support  of 
a  peaceful  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  issue 
through a negotiated two-State solution, with Israel and 
Palestine living side by side in peace and security.
Singapore encourages renewed dialogue among all 
concerned parties and calls on all of them to exercise 
restraint and to do their utmost to protect civilians on 
both sides of the border, while taking urgent measures 
to  de-escalate  the  situation.  All  parties  must  bear  the 
responsibility  of  ending  the  violence,  restoring  calm 
and achieving a just, lasting and comprehensive peace 
in the Middle East.
Mr.  Danon  (Israel):  The  United  Nations  has 
adopted  yet  another  anti-Israel  resolution  (resolution 
73/89), adding to an ever-increasing pile of resolutions 
that de-legitimize my country.
This  body  has  missed  another  opportunity  to 
condemn terrorism and make a clear statement against 
Hamas,  a  terrorist  organization  that  harms  and  kills 
innocent  Palestinians  and  Israelis,  denies  Israel’s 
very  right  to  exist  and  derails  all  hope  for  peace.  On 
the  same  day,  the  General  Assembly  has  adopted  the 
resolution put forward by Ireland. That reminds me of 
the infamous comments of Israel’s former Ambassador 
to the United Nations, Abba Eban. He spent many years 
in this building, and once said: 
“If  Algeria  introduced  a  resolution  claiming 
that the earth was flat and that Israel had flattened 
it, it would pass by a vote in the General Assembly 
of 164 to 13.”
Since  he  said  that  over  50  years  ago,  nothing  has 
changed  in  this  Hall.  If  the  United  Nations  seeks  to 
bring about real change in the Middle East, it must start 
with the basics and condemn terrorism unequivocally, 
recognize  Israel’s  right  to  exist  as  a  Jewish  and 
democratic  State  and  clearly  reject  all  actors  that 
do  not  recognize  Israel,  while  rejecting  the  kind  of 
double standards and hypocrisy that we have witnessed 
here today.
The President: I now give the floor to the observer 
of the Observer State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  I  thank  you,  Madam 
President, for your most skilled conduct of the General 
Assembly on this important issue.
We must begin by reaffirming our sincere, deepest 
gratitude  to  all  the  member  States  that  today  stood 
on  the  side  of  justice,  in  support  of  the  just  cause  of 
Palestine,  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  the  global  consensus  on  the  terms  of 
reference  for  a  just  and  lasting  peaceful  solution  to 
the  Palestinian  question,  the  core  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict.  Unwavering  in  principle,  they  have  helped 
to  push  back  attempts  to  undermine  the  decades-long 
efforts to resolve this injustice, on the basis of law and 
relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  which  form  the 
backbone of the international consensus and are the key 
to peace.
That  international  consensus  has  been  reinforced 
today  by  the  strong  support  for  resolution  73/89  on  a 
comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle 
East, reaffirming the General Assembly’s commitment 
to the basis and parameters for a peaceful solution, as 
enshrined  in  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions, 
the  Madrid  principles,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and 
the  Quartet  road  map.  That  unequivocal  affirmation, 
in line with numerous General Assembly and Security 
Council  resolutions,  including  resolution  2334  (2016), 
is  significant  in  view  of  the  actions  aimed  at  eroding 
the  global  consensus  for  achieving  a  just  solution 
that  realizes  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and 
the  two-State  solution  of  Palestine  and  Israel  living 
18-41585
13/15
A/73/PV.47 
06/12/2018
side by side in peace and harmony, on the basis of the 
pre-1967 borders.
We thank Ireland for presenting the resolution and 
Bolivia for amendment A/73/L.46, on which the draft 
was based. We express deep appreciation to delegations 
that  voted  in  favour,  confirming  their  principled 
positions and solidarity. It is clear that the international 
community  will  not  accept  that  international  law, 
United Nations resolutions and the long-standing terms 
of  reference  for  a  solution  be  cast  aside.  That  is  the 
fundamental and minimal basis for any engagement on 
the issue in a fair and constructive manner. We will not 
relent on that, whether with regard to actions taken here 
at the United Nations or in the political process. Peace 
negotiations can never be credible — nor will they ever 
succeed — if detached from this space, as evidenced by 
the historic failures of the peace process and the current 
political deadlock.
Member  States  that  have  long  supported  United 
Nations resolutions on the Palestine question should not 
accept offensive allegations that demean their national 
positions, shared values and multilateral efforts on this 
issue  of  global  importance.  We  reject  any  slander  or 
insult  directed  at  them  for  standing  on  principle.  We 
reiterate  that  those  resolutions  are  not  one-sided  or 
anti-Israeli; rather, they are serious pieces of legislation 
that  are  pro-law,  pro-rights  and  pro-peace.  Claims  to 
the contrary are false, and those resolutions address all 
aspects of the issue, based on the law and in a reasonable 
and non-provocative manner.
As  to  the  calls  for  balance,  we  say  that  there  is 
absolutely  no  balance  or  symmetry  in  the  conflict. 
There is an occupier and an occupied people, and the 
rules of international law, including humanitarian and 
human rights law, are patently clear in that regard. We 
therefore reject the premise of the need to bring balance 
to United Nations resolutions as a pretext to undertake 
what is clearly an anti-Palestinian action — another in 
the list of punitive actions taken by the current United 
States Administration, which began with the provocative 
decision on Jerusalem, in violation of Security Council 
resolutions and global consensus, which was taken one 
year ago on this very same day and that has obviously 
only emboldened Israel to commit crimes and act with 
impunity, to the detriment of the Palestinian people, the 
two-State solution and the goal of peace.
What happened today in the Assembly was brought 
about  by  instigating  an  unnecessary  confrontation, 
with  questionable  motives  and  objectives.  Exploiting 
the issues of violence and terror, the overt purpose of 
that confrontation was to name and shame in a biased 
and  flagrant  manner.  That  is  not  the  business  of  the 
General  Assembly;  its  role  is  to  promote  cooperative 
and sustainable solutions to the complex problems and 
conflicts in our world. That United States action does 
the  opposite,  exacerbating  tensions  and  undermining 
the collective and serious efforts of concerned parties 
to  de-escalate,  build  trust  and  confidence  and  truly 
pursue reconciliation and peace.
Violence  and  terror  are  a  serious  aspect  of  this 
conflict, as in other conflicts around the world, but we 
reject cynical attempts to reduce the Palestine question 
to  a  matter  of  violence  and  terror.  This  is  a  political, 
territorial and human rights issue. It is an issue about 
ending  occupation.  It  is  about  a  people  denied  their 
right  to  live  in  freedom,  dignity  and  peace  in  their 
own homeland. False narratives that further malign the 
Palestinian side and absolve Israel of its responsibilities 
are  unacceptable  and  flatly  ignore  the  root  cause  of 
the  conflict  and  recurrent  crises,  the  illegal  Israeli 
occupation, colonization and blockade of our land and 
oppression of our people.
We therefore sincerely thank all those delegations 
that  voted  against  the  United  States  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.42, rejecting that false narrative and disruptive 
approach,  and  we  stress  that  this  is  not  just  about 
Palestine;  it  must  be  rejected  in  all  instances.  The 
international community cannot allow the rules-based 
order  to  be  so  easily  dismantled.  Multilateralism  and 
international institutions must be preserved, as they are 
vital for human progress and for overcoming the many 
challenges that we collectively face.
the  fact 
The  pretext  for  such  an  initiative  was  directly 
that  General  Assembly 
contradicted  by 
resolutions  on  our 
issue  are  replete  with  clear 
condemnations of violence and terror against civilians 
in all circumstances. Those are properly drafted, within 
the framework of international law and with due regard 
to the overreaching context of Israel’s occupation of the 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem  since 
1967 — an illegal occupation that is not the preordained 
eternal fate of the Palestinian people and must end.
We  cannot  accept  a  one-sided  narrative  that 
attributes violence to the Palestinian side, while ignoring 
the daily Israeli violence and terror against Palestinian 
children,  women  and  men  that  is  manifested  in 
14/15 
18-41585
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.47
countless ways, necessitating international protection, 
which  those  people  continue  to  be  unfairly  denied. 
This  initiative  offers  no  solutions.  The  humanitarian 
catastrophe  and  human  misery  in  the  Gaza  Strip  will 
not  be  resolved  by  such  hostile  actions.  Political  and 
humanitarian solutions are urgently needed. The illegal 
Israeli blockade must be lifted.
We also once again pay tribute to fraternal Egypt’s 
efforts towards Palestinian reconciliation. It remains a 
national  priority  to  end  this  harmful  division,  reunite 
our  people  and  land  and  restore  Palestinian  national 
consensus,  Government  control  and  functions  in  the 
Gaza  Strip,  as  in  the  West  Bank,  with  one  law,  one 
Government  and  one  security  force,  based  on  the 
principles of the Palestine Liberation Organization. We 
call for an end to the hypocrisy that calls on Palestinians 
to reconcile, on the one hand, but threatens to punish 
them for doing, so on the other.
To  the  delegations  that  voted  in  favour  of  the 
United States draft resolution, I say that we are deeply 
disappointed  but  understand  that  each  State  has  a 
sovereign  right  to  determine  its  vote.  However,  we 
view today as an anomaly and remain reassured by the 
principled support and solidarity extended to Palestine 
from  across  the  globe.  We  firmly  reject  might  over 
right  and  reiterate  that  punitive  measures  meant  to 
undermine  our  rights,  humiliate  our  people  and  wear 
us down will not bring us to submission. Our rights are 
inalienable,  our  cause  is  just  and  we  stand  firmly  in 
their defence.
I must ask what honour or glory there can possibly 
be  in  attacking  an  occupied,  defenceless  people  that 
has  been  denied  liberty  for  so  long  and  has  suffered 
so  greatly.  What  honour  can  there  be  in  using  power 
to harm, rather than to rectify injustice and truly help 
those in need? There is absolutely none. The Palestinian 
people are a proud and steadfast people. They will not 
surrender  to  this  injustice;  rather,  they  will  persist 
in  seeking  a  peaceful  end  to  it  in  a  way  that  ensures 
the realization of their inalienable rights, including to 
self-determination and return and to a life of freedom, 
dignity,  peace  and  security  in  their  independent, 
sovereign  State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
its 
thus  concluded 
Assembly  has 
consideration of agenda item 38.
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.
this  stage  of 
18-41585
15/15
