United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
22nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 18 October 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 4 p.m.
Agenda item 133
Impact of rapid technological change on the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals
The President (spoke in Spanish): I would like to 
begin by extending a special welcome to His Excellency 
Mr.  Sven  Mikser,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  and  His  Excellency  Mr.  Luis 
Videgaray  Caso,  Secretary  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
United Mexican States.
Technological change is modifying our present and 
our prospects for the future at a dizzying pace. Faced 
with this substantive and accelerated transformation of 
history,  academics,  scientists,  the  private  sector,  civil 
society  and  Governments  have  focused  on  addressing 
the opportunities, as well as the challenges and threats, 
it represents.
Our  Organization  must  also  be  an  active  part  of 
this conversation, which for many is the most important 
conversation of our time. It is a fact that technological 
changes  have  an  impact  on  each  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals we seek to achieve. If we want to 
be efficient, it is essential to assess which technological 
changes  will  allow  us  to  accelerate  the  fulfilment 
of  the  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  as  well  as  those  that  could  jeopardize 
it. The contributions of this meeting are in accordance 
with the purposes of that agenda. I will focus on three 
points that I consider to be crucial.
The first is the impact of technological change on 
the  future  of  work.  If  we  want  to  achieve  the  goal  of 
full and productive employment and decent work for all 
people by 2030, we must create 600 million new jobs. 
Rapid technological change affects jobs. According to 
estimates, automation may eliminate 75 million jobs by 
the  year  2022  but  would  also  create  133  million  new 
job  opportunities.  We  must  therefore  put  appropriate 
strategies and policies in place that can help people to 
adapt and take advantage of the benefits of these new 
labour  markets.  Women  and  girls  must,  of  course,  be 
included in these plans.
the  development  of 
My  second  point  concerns  the  potential  for  rapid 
technological change in the context of climate action, in 
particular the advancement of low-carbon technologies. 
We  must  accelerate 
these 
technologies  if  we  want  to  meet  the  goal  of  limiting 
global  warming  to  1.5˚  C,  as  established  in  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change and in the light of Goal 
13 of the 2030 Agenda. The recent report issued by the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change  reminds 
us that, if we act collectively and responsibly, we can 
achieve  the  commitments  of  the  Paris  Agreement.  It 
also alerts us to the dangers to which humankind will 
be exposed if we fail to do so. Technological evolution 
can contribute to the generation of clean and affordable 
sources of energy for millions of people who currently 
lack access to it.
Thirdly  and  finally, 
the  Organization  should 
continue  to  address  the  issue  of  rapid  technological 
changes,  keeping  the  well-being  of  peoples  at  the 
centre of its deliberations. Technological advances have 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-32542 (E)
*1832542*

A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
the potential to transform our lives for the better, but 
it  is  critical  that  these  advances  also  be  accessible  to 
everyone.  Otherwise,  rapid  technological  change  can 
increase  inequality  and  move  us  further  away  from 
achieving Goal 10 of the 2030 Agenda. A clear example 
of  this  is  digital  technologies;  despite  their  rapid 
expansion,  only  48  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population 
has  access  to  the  Internet.  The  digital  divide  that 
persists within and between countries is an obstacle to 
sustainable development.
Another challenge associated with the digital age is 
the protection of the individual’s right to privacy. I wish 
to highlight that certain technologies that are still being 
developed — such as artificial intelligence or machine 
learning  —  require  solid  regulatory  frameworks  to 
address the challenges and risks that their use represents 
for the future of humankind.
Technological  change  imposes  an  unprecedented 
transformation  upon  us,  and  our  Organization  cannot 
ignore  this  paradigm  shift.  Under  this  premise,  I  am 
sure  that  we  will  be  able  to  fulfil  our  multilateral 
commitments for present and future generations.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Mr. Mauthe-Käter (European Union): I have the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
this statement.
People  in  our  societies  feel  that  the  world  is 
changing  at  a  rapid  pace.  Many  millions  of  people 
have  embraced  this  change  as  a  great  opportunity  to 
improve  their  lives.  They  have  been  able  to  harness 
the  opportunities  that  new  technologies  can  bring  to 
all  dimensions  of  sustainable  development.  Others 
are  at  risk  of  being  left  behind,  in  particular  the  half 
of  the  global  population  that  is  still  not  connected  to 
the  Internet.  There  are  concerns  about  the  impact  of 
new technology on employment, privacy and security, 
for example. We also face a gender digital divide. All 
of  us  —  Governments,  as  well  as  other  stakeholders 
including  the  private  sector,  civil  society  and  the 
technical community — have responsibilities to ensure 
that  people  across  the  globe  are  able  to  benefit  from 
the opportunities of new technologies and that people’s 
concerns are addressed.
The  task  ahead  of  us  is  to  work  collaboratively 
together to harness the positive, transformative power 
of new technologies for the good of all and manage the 
risks and challenges. We therefore welcome the fact that 
the Secretary-General has put this issue at the top of his 
agenda by establishing the High-Level Panel on Digital 
Cooperation. We also welcome the Secretary-General’s 
strategy  on  new  technologies,  which  will  guide  the 
work of United Nations agencies. At the same time, we 
recall key documents in that area, such as the outcome 
document of the open consultation process on overall 
review of the implementation of the world summit on 
the  information  society.  Furthermore,  we  commend 
Mexico and Japan for their leadership as co-Chairs of the 
third Multi-Stakeholder Forum on Science, Technology 
and Innovation (STI) for the Sustainable Development 
Goals, and we express our appreciation for the important 
work  of  the  United  Nations  10-Member  Group  to 
support the Technology Facilitation Mechanism, which 
also includes representatives from Europe.
In  our  joint  journey  towards  this  new  future,  it 
might be helpful to agree together on where we actually 
want  to  arrive  at.  The  vision  of  the  European  Union 
and its member States encompasses a future in which 
new  technology  leads  to  sustainable  development, 
economic  growth,  job  creation  for  all,  the  protection 
of  our  climate  and  the  environment,  women’s  and 
girls’  empowerment,  better  education,  advancements 
in agriculture and the reduction of inequalities among 
and  within  countries.  We  envision  a  future  in  which 
new  technologies  contribute  to  good  governance, 
strong democratic institutions and the social well-being 
and  integrity  of  societies,  as  well  as  human  rights, 
fundamental  freedoms  and  the  rule  of  law,  instead  of 
autocracy and discrimination. Our vision is of a future 
in which the integrity and dignity of every individual 
are respected, including every individual’s right to the 
freedom  of  expression  and  protection  from  arbitrary 
interference  in  his  or  her  privacy.  So,  how  do  we 
get there?
First,  we  need  to  maintain  a  transparent  global 
dialogue  that  includes  all  relevant  stakeholders  from 
Governments,  the  private  sector,  civil  society,  the 
technical  community  and  academia.  This  year’s  STI 
Forum  was  a  good  example  of  how  much  energy  and 
valuable ideas are set free when all those actors come 
together,  as  we  heard  from  the  Deputy  Permanent 
2/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
Representative  of  Mexico  in  the  informal  meeting 
held earlier today. We are also looking forward to the 
recommendations  of  the  High-Level  Panel  on  Digital 
Cooperation on how to improve that global dialogue.
Secondly,  we  need  more  cooperation  and 
collaboration  among  stakeholders.  For 
that,  we 
need  the  United  Nations  system  to  open  up  more  to 
other  stakeholders,  supported  by  strong  multilateral 
cooperation.  We  need  the  United  Nations  as  a  forum 
where we exchange good practices and learn from one 
another’s experiences, not as a regulator. The Secretary-
General’s  Strategy  on  New  Technologies  recognizes 
that we must
“become more open to new ideas and new voices, 
which  challenge  our  institutional  reflexes  for 
business as usual and allow the United Nations to 
credibly engage with partners”.
is  essential 
if 
That 
to 
become  an  obvious  partner  for  industry  and  civil 
society stakeholders.
the  United  Nations 
is 
Thirdly,  we  need  to  find  better  ways  to  utilize 
science,  technology  and  innovation,  and  existing 
mechanisms, such as the Internet Governance Forum, 
for  the  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development. Without science, technology 
and  innovation,  we  will  not  be  able  to  reach  the 
Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. We heard that 
today  from  the  representative  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD), 
which  does  great  work,  together  with  other  United 
Nations entities, to foster that agenda.
The  European  Union  and  its  member  States  have 
already  put  measures  in  place  to  translate  that  vision 
into  a  reality.  With  the  EU  digital  single  market,  we 
are tearing down regulatory walls and moving from 28 
national  markets  to  a  single  one.  That  can  contribute 
€415  billion  per  year  to  our  economy  and  create 
hundreds of thousands of jobs. With our new General 
Data  Protection  Regulation,  we  have  established  one 
clear  set  of  data  protection  rules  for  all  companies 
operating  in  the  EU.  That  means  people  have  more 
control  over  their  personal  data  and  that  businesses 
benefit from a level playing field.
With  regard  to  artificial  intelligence,  European 
leaders have decided to coordinate a joint strategy that 
will also build on the work of the new EU Global Tech 
Panel  and  various  activities  in  EU  member  States.  In 
involving 
addition, we are also stepping up our cooperation with 
partners in developing countries. In 2017, we adopted 
a  new  policy 
the  Digital4Development 
initiative  and  significantly  increased  the  number  of 
projects,  including  by  investing  in  capacity-building, 
digital skills and digital health. In December, together 
with UNCTAD, we supported our African partners in 
organizing the first Africa eCommerce Week in Nairobi.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  our  commitment 
to  engaging  constructively  in  this  global  dialogue  on 
new technologies and rapid technological change, and 
making  sure  that  all  voices  are  heard  and  no  one  is 
left behind.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mexico.
Mr. Videgaray Caso (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
With  your  permission  and  understanding,  Madam 
President, before making a statement on the impact of 
rapid technological change I would like to take a few 
minutes  to  discuss  a  topic  other  than  that  which  has 
brought us together. I should like to talk about an urgent 
humanitarian issue.
It  is  public  knowledge  that  a  large  group  of  our 
Central  American  brothers  and  sisters  coming  from 
Honduras  have  formed  a  caravan  that  is  approaching 
the  border  between  Guatemala  and  Mexico.  I  would 
like to inform the General Assembly that Mexico has 
requested institutional cooperation from the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
and the Secretary-General so that, in accordance with 
the Cartagena Declaration on Refugees, we can receive 
assistance from the United Nations system to process 
refugee  applications  submitted  by  caravan  members, 
as  well  as  find  permanent  solutions  that  respect  their 
dignity  and  rights.  For  Mexico,  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance to deal with the caravan in accordance with 
the law and — I emphasize — with respect for and the 
protection of the human rights of the caravan members. 
On behalf of all Mexicans, from this rostrum I call on 
the region and the entire world to become involved in 
Central  America  through  international  development 
cooperation.  It  is  only  through  cooperation  that  leads 
to  peace,  jobs  and  economic  development  that  the 
structural  causes  of  this  contemporary  humanitarian 
phenomenon  can  be  resolved.  I  thank  everyone  for 
their understanding.
I  very  warmly  welcome  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Estonia and all representatives participating 
18-32542
3/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
in  this  meeting.  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  head  up 
this  discussion,  mandated  by  resolution  72/242  of 
December  2017,  which  was  sponsored  by  Mexico  and 
35  other  countries  that  recognized  the  importance  of 
rapid  technological  change.  Today,  less  than  a  year 
later,  the  multifaceted  and  profound  effects  of  rapid 
technological change are more obvious than ever. The 
Secretary-General  has  recognized  the  importance  of 
the phenomenon and has made it one of his priorities, 
as we heard him say in this Hall at the opening of the 
current session of General Assembly (see A/73/PV.1).
It 
that 
is  clear 
the  effects  of 
technological 
change  affect  all  countries  in  the  economic,  social 
and  environmental  fields,  regardless  of  their  level  of 
development. It is a phenomenon that is of concern to 
us  all.  The  new  technologies  that  the  founder  of  the 
World  Economic  Forum,  Klaus  Schwab,  has  labelled 
the “fourth industrial revolution” have the potential to 
change  the  destiny  of  humankind  forever.  They  have 
the  potential  to  promote  development  and  well-being, 
but  also  bear  risks,  even  some  that  are  existential 
for humankind.
Given that challenge, Mexico has decided to move 
from  being  a  passive  observer  to  actively  seeking 
solutions. While the world is changing at an exponential 
rate, we must recognize that public policies continue to 
develop at a linear speed. For that reason, Mexico has 
brought the discussion of this topic to a universal forum, 
the United Nations, and invited its States Members to 
share their experiences. We also ask the United Nations 
system  to  provide  the  support  necessary  to  make  the 
most  of  the  benefits  of  technological  change  and  to 
ensure that no one is left behind.
Mexico  is  convinced  that  the  General  Assembly 
is  the  ideal  space  in  which  to  raise  awareness  among 
States  and  societies  about  the  paradigm  shift  that 
technological  progress  represents  and  will  represent. 
With that, we will create the opportunity to anticipate 
and  mitigate  potentially  negative  effects  in  a  timely 
manner.  The  transformation  that  we  are  witnessing 
today is happening through multiple new technologies, 
which present challenges and opportunities.
Since  the  adoption  of  the  resolution  that  gathers 
us  here  today,  between  44  and  60  countries  have 
met  periodically  to  listen  to  experts  and  organize 
discussions to design better public policies. One such 
meeting, for example, took place in Silicon Valley, at 
the  World  Economic  Forum’s  Centre  for  the  Fourth 
Industrial  Revolution,  at  which  I  had  the  privilege  of 
participating in May. A few weeks ago, at the opening 
of  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  message 
delivered by the President of Mexico (see A/73/PV.6), 
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  was  clear  on  this  critical 
issue  —  new  technologies  have  increased  the  level 
of  demand  on  Governments  to  obtain  immediate 
and  concrete  results.  Aware  of  the  urgent  need  to 
act,  Secretary-General  Guterres  has  also  assumed 
leadership with the creation of the High-level Panel on 
Digital Cooperation and by presenting his strategy on 
new technologies, which deserves our full recognition 
and  support.  We  will  be  attentive  to  its  results  in  the 
spring of 2019.
We  trust  that  the  United  Nations  system  will  be 
able  to  support  us  in  taking  better  advantage  of  new 
technologies  as  the  main  means  of  implementing  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. At this stage 
of  learning,  we  have  also  enjoyed  the  support  of  the 
main United Nations agencies, such as the Department 
of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) and the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which 
today governs the Technology Facilitation Mechanism. 
The goal is to exploit technological advances to accelerate 
the implementation of the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda, without limiting or 
halting innovation and technological development.
for 
Innovation 
We  also  had  the  opportunity  to  listen  to  experts 
at  the  previous  Multi-Stakeholder  Forum  on  Science, 
Technology  and 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, co-Chaired by Mexico and Japan, 
and at the Commission on Science and Technology for 
Development. We have undoubtedly taken a first step to 
achieving global awareness. Now more than ever, it is 
vital to understand the opportunities and challenges of 
technological change and the need for all countries and 
societies to be involved.
Mexico  has  taken  action  on  this  matter.  At  the 
global  level,  together  with  DESA,  in  2016  and  2018 
two  meetings  were  convened  of  experts  from  around 
the  world,  whose  recommendations  fed  the  Forum  on 
Science, Technology and Innovation for the Sustainable 
Development Goals. At the regional level, as Chair of 
the Forum of the Countries of Latin America and the 
Caribbean  on  Sustainable  Development,  in  2017  and 
2018 Mexico promoted the exchange of opinions with 
multiple  actors  on  the  opportunities  and  challenges 
related  to  the  use  of  technologies  emerging  in  the 
region. That was reflected in the report entitled Data, 
4/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
algorithms and policies: Redefining the digital world, 
which was presented by the Economic Commission for 
Latin America and the Caribbean.
At the national level, I must point out that Mexico 
has established a national digital strategy coordination 
in  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  Republic,  which 
this  year  presented  Mexico’s  strategy  on  artificial 
intelligence, seeking to develop an adequate framework 
of  governance  through  multisectoral  dialogue  that 
would  allow  us  to  better  understand  the  technology 
and develop better practices and more efficient public 
policies. With that, Mexico has become one of the first 
10 countries to have established such a strategy.
On  its  own  initiative,  the  Government  of  Mexico 
has set itself the task of identifying the impact of the 
new  technologies  that  constitute  the  fourth  industrial 
revolution,  with  particular  emphasis  on  artificial 
intelligence, within the scope of the 2030 Agenda. We 
have identified, one by one, the positive and negative 
impacts  of  these  new  technologies  on  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. As an example, I should like to share 
some  of  the  possible  impacts  that  we  have  identified. 
Regarding Sustainable Development Goals 8.2, 8.3 and 
9.5, we have identified that artificial intelligence could 
give  a  significant  boost  to  commercial  productivity 
by  developing  more  efficient  processes.  That  could 
reduce  costs  and  allow  more  capital  to  be  reinvested 
in  innovation,  thereby  accelerating  the  fulfilment  of 
those Goals.
However,  it  is  also  a  matter  of  fact  that  artificial 
intelligence  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges,  as  you 
mentioned  a  moment  ago,  Madam,  when  we  consider 
the labour market, particularly the labour displacement 
that may result from artificial intelligence technology 
replacing  the  work  carried  out  by  human  beings.  It 
may  generate  abrupt  and  immediate  job  losses  for 
millions  of  people.  That  would  undoubtedly  have  a 
particularly  serious  impact  on  the  creation  of  decent 
jobs, which is set out in Sustainable Development Goal 
8.3. We have therefore identified specific positive and 
negative  impacts  of  each  of  the  different  emerging 
technologies  —  such  as  blockchain,  nanotechnology 
and biotechnology — on compliance with the SDGs.
informal  meeting 
this 
that  was  opportunely 
The 
convened 
important 
elements and evidence of the need to act without delay 
on  this  crucial  issue.  For  our  part,  in  order  to  better 
understand  the  complexity  of  the  issue,  we  have 
afternoon  highlighted 
continued working with the major universities, as well 
as with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development,  the  International  Telecommunication 
Union, the International Labour Organization, UNICEF 
and  UNESCO,  among  other  principal  agencies  of  the 
United Nations system, in response to the mandate set 
by resolution 72/242. With that support, the Permanent 
Mission of Mexico is currently negotiating a new draft 
resolution, with the backing of various countries, that 
will allow us all to be better prepared. I hope that all 
Member States represented here in the Assembly will 
join  the  discussion  and  debate  on  a  phenomenon  that 
affects and concerns us all. I encourage them to work 
together  to  support  this  initiative.  With  their  help 
and support, we will ensure that the fourth industrial 
revolution will benefit all humankind.
In  your  speech  a  few  moments  ago,  Madam,  you 
stated  that  the  debate  on  new  technologies  is  perhaps 
the  most  important  debate  of  our  time.  I  agree.  The 
emergence  of  new  technologies,  particularly  artificial 
intelligence, represents an evolutionary and existential 
challenge  for  humankind.  The  debate  is  broad  and 
attracts the interest of people from all continents and 
of  all  beliefs.  In  this  debate,  there  are  optimists  who 
view a major opportunity in artificial intelligence and 
the  fourth  industrial  revolution  for  the  whole  world 
to  enjoy  a  better  life,  with  improved  levels  of  health 
and  greater  capacities,  including  both  physical  and 
cognitive.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  the  pessimistic 
view  of  new  technology  as  a  threat  —  one  that  may 
even  be  existential  for  humankind.  We  are  convinced 
that, in the light of these new technologies, the future 
of  humankind  is  neither  determined  nor  fatal.  It  will 
depend on the actions and decisions we take. We must 
take  those  decisions  together.  We  must  take  them  as 
a  united  humankind.  Therefore,  the  most  important 
forum  in  which  to  lead  and  guide  the  debate  is  the 
United  Nations  and  the  General  Assembly.  Madam 
President, I commend your initiative and the convening 
of this debate. I hope that it will be the most important 
debate of our times, as you said.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Estonia.
Mr.  Mikser  (Estonia):  Estonia  aligns  itself  with 
the  statement  just  delivered  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
In my national capacity, I would like to thank you, 
Madam President, for convening today’s timely debate 
18-32542
5/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
on  the  impact  of  rapid  technological  change  on  the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals and 
enabling me to focus on digital technology.
During the past three decades, my country, Estonia, 
has followed a very particular path of development. In 
1991,  when  Estonia  regained  its  independence  after 
several decades of foreign occupation, it was naturally 
a  recipient  of  development  aid.  By  1998,  however, 
Estonia had already become a donor of such aid. That 
accelerated development path was due in no small part 
to  our  adoption  of  information  and  communication 
technologies 
(ICTs)  and  e-governance  solutions. 
Digitization  has  brought  Estonia  stronger  economic 
growth,  greater  resource  efficiency,  and  speedier 
human development.
Estonia  strongly  believes  in  the  principles  of 
efficiency, equality and empathy. We want to improve 
efficiency in the world so that we can make better use of 
our resources. Estonia is a strong advocate for equality. 
We believe in levelling the playing field for everyone on 
the path to development and digitization. And Estonia 
truly  values  empathy,  so  we  want  to  help  others  with 
their development. Digitization improves Government 
effectiveness  and  overall  efficiencies.  It  improves 
transparency and trust in public processes and enhances 
citizens’  engagement  in  building  more  inclusive  and 
cohesive  societies.  It  is  therefore  crucial  to  achieving 
the  promises  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development. Regarding efficiency, we strongly believe 
that ICTs can revolutionize entrepreneurship, education, 
employment  and  even  health  care.  Digital  online 
services  provide  economic  growth.  They  bring  down 
unnecessary  barriers  between  citizens  and  the  State 
and  between  businesses  and  sectors  of  the  economy. 
They  expand  our  boundaries  and  transcend  borders. 
Estonia has shared its knowledge and experience with 
many nations of the world and will continue to do so, 
in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  (UNDP),  the  African  Union  and  all  who 
are interested and willing.
Just  recently,  during  the  high-level  week  here  at 
the  United  Nations,  Estonia  launched  a  cooperation 
project  with  UNDP  in  support  of  the  development  of 
e-governance, in a major initiative to support the digital 
transformation  of  UNDP  and  developing  countries.  It 
aims  to  share  Estonia’s  e-governance  expertise  with 
nearly  170  countries  and  territories.  The  Ministry 
of  Foreign  Affairs  of  Estonia  has  provided  the  seed 
funding of €102,000 to launch the project, which will 
enable  other  Member  States  to  benefit  from  Estonia’s 
experience  and  hopefully  find  a  way  to  replicate  that 
model in their own countries. While everyone’s digital 
transformation  will  obviously  be  unique  and  tailored 
to  each  individual  country’s  particular  conditions, 
the  cooperation  project  unquestionably  has  immense 
potential to have an accelerating effect on development 
globally.  While  we  are  proud  to  be  initiating  this 
cooperation project with UNDP, the seed funding and 
expertise  provided  by  Estonia  must  be  leveraged  and 
scaled  up  for  the  project  to  fully  realize  its  potential 
to  help  countries  make  their  digital  transformations. 
I  would  like  to  invite  all  interested  parties  to  join  us 
in this great undertaking to support the digitization of 
the world.
No  amount  of  technical  expertise  or  technology 
will  help  countries  to  truly  digitize  without  the 
political  leadership  and  political  will  needed  to  drive 
that  process.  The  role  of  leaders  therefore  cannot  be 
overemphasized.  I  would  just  like  to  highlight  a  few 
examples  from  Estonia  to  illustrate  what  digitization 
looks  like  when  political  leadership  gets  it  right.  For 
example,  our  e-ID  enables  us  to  sign  documents 
electronically, and that digital identity is the centrepiece 
of our e-Government. It brings great economic benefits. 
We estimate that Estonia saves as much as 2 per cent of 
its gross domestic product in time and money annually 
by  using  e-governance  solutions.  Another  example  is 
that last year, in 2017, 96 per cent of our citizens filed 
their taxes electronically. Tax forms are automatically 
pre-filled out, making the verification and submission 
of  declarations  a  matter  of  minutes.  And  last  but  not 
least,  Estonia  is  the  first  and  so  far  the  only  country 
to introduce online elections. As a result, many more 
people are able and willing to cast their votes, which I 
believe is very good for democracy.
Despite  all  the  great  benefits  of  digitization,  it  is 
clear that it is not the cure for all of our ills. What is 
more, it will present its own set of challenges. However, 
those  obstacles  can  be  overcome  if  we  keep  working 
at  them.  All  things  considered,  Estonia’s  experience 
shows  that  the  benefits  far  outweigh  the  risks.  New 
technologies should always be seen as enablers. They 
create  equal  opportunities  if  supported  by  proper 
policies.  That  does  not  mean  that  the  risks  related  to 
them should not be ignored. Rather, the opposite is true, 
and they should be taken extremely seriously. I would 
say  that  cyberspace  risks  do  not  replace  conventional 
risks  but  if  anything  make  the  overall  picture  more 
6/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
complex.  But  a  well-established  international  legal 
space should be able to deliver for humankind. The fact 
is that the world simply cannot afford not to go digital if 
we are to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. 
We will all have to work together to make that happen, 
and Estonia is determined to do its part.
Mr.  Mackay  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
General  Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  72/242 
at  its  previous  session  encouraged  Member  States 
to  analyse  the  impact  of  rapid  technological  change 
on  the  achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  (SDGs).  It  also  urged  a  number  of  United 
Nations  entities,  such  as  the  Technology  Facilitation 
Mechanism, to give due consideration to the impact of 
technological change on the achievement of the SDGs.
Technology  is  a  key  means  for  implementing 
the  SDGs  and  an  important  transformation  lever  in 
achieving  them  and  delivering  on  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  In  the  context  of  our 
discussion  of  the  impact  of  technological  progress  on 
sustainable development, we want to highlight the issue 
of  technological  foresight.  Technological  foresight  is 
a  powerful  tool  for  the  strategic  planning  of  national 
priorities  in  the  area  of  science,  technology  and 
innovation as a foundation for sustainable development. 
An effective foresight system in this area should define 
the optimal directions for research and the development 
of  technologies  and  production,  set  priorities  for 
economic  development  and  facilitate  the  effective 
allocation of budgets through appropriate programmes 
and instruments.
Belarus is currently establishing a national system 
of  technological  foresight  as  part  of  its  ongoing 
process  of  planning  for  sustainable  development. 
We  are  also  carrying  out  a  comprehensive  foresight 
exercise  on  scientific  and 
technological  progress 
for  the  period  from  2021  to  2025,  and  again  for 
the  period  through  2040,  with  the  aim  of  defining 
priority directions for our scientific and technological 
development  and  promising  innovative  technologies, 
and  of  developing 
recommendations  on  various 
scientific  and  technological  development  scenarios. 
A number of States are doing similar work in the area 
of  technological  foresight.  However,  the  subject  of 
technological  foresight  still  does  not  get  the  attention 
and development it deserves at the international level, 
and is seen only as a specialized arena for experts or for 
business interests. So far there is no holistic vision of 
cooperation between Governments in this area for the 
purposes of sustainable development.
In 
that  regard,  Belarus  supports  establishing 
international  cooperation  on  technological  foresight 
for 
the  needs  of  sustainable  development.  Our 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  spoke  about  this  in  the 
general  debate  on  1  October  (see  A/73/PV.16).  We 
propose  that  interested  Member  States,  international 
organizations  and  other  partners  unite  their  efforts 
in  the  area  of  technological  foresight  with  the  aim  of 
assisting  sustainable  development.  Such  cooperation 
could  take  place  in  numerous  concrete  areas,  such  as 
the  exchange  of  experience  in  technological  foresight 
methodologies,  the  collective  use  of  the  results  of 
analysis  of  technological  trends,  the  improvement  of 
expert capacity, international technical cooperation on 
the  exchange  of  best  practices  and  capacity-building, 
joint  research  and  so  on.  In  our  view,  cooperation  in 
technological  foresight  would  help  countries  jointly 
develop  scientifically  based  conceptions  of 
the 
possible options for their technological and innovative 
development in the context of global progress. It would 
enable them to approach the establishment of national 
priorities  for  scientific,  technological  and  innovative 
activity more effectively.
Lastly,  it  could  help  improve  the  effectiveness  of 
strategic  planning  for  national  economies  and  their 
interaction in a global context. We firmly believe that 
such cooperation would be in every country’s interests 
and  would  be  fully  in  line  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  For  its  part,  Belarus  is 
prepared to initiate and participate actively in the process 
of  establishing  international  cooperation  in  the  area 
of technological foresight for the needs of sustainable 
development,  and  we  call  on  all  interested  States  and 
international organizations to join the process.
Mrs.  Zappia  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement just delivered by the observer of the European 
Union,  and  I  would  like  to  add  some  remarks  in  my 
national capacity.
The issue we are considering today is of paramount 
importance. We are no longer merely standing on the 
brink but at the centre of a technological revolution that 
is  fundamentally  altering  the  way  we  live,  work,  and 
relate to one another. In its scale, scope, complexity and 
above all its speed, this transformation could be unlike 
anything that humankind has ever experienced. We do 
not yet know fully how the so-called fourth industrial 
18-32542
7/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
revolution  —  or  next  production  revolution  —  will 
unfold, but it is already clear that it will have global and 
multisectoral  impact  and  will  present  extraordinary 
opportunities.  It  is  also  confronting  us  with  big 
challenges.  We  should  therefore  respond  to  it  with 
an  integrated  and  comprehensive  set  of  policies  and 
actions involving all relevant stakeholders.
Rapid technological change has been increasingly 
discussed over the past few years in all major multilateral 
forums.  Last  year,  Italy  gave  it  major  prominence 
within  the  framework  of  its  presidency  of  the  Group 
of  Seven,  organizing  a  ministerial  innovation  week 
that  combined  a  series  of  ministerial  meetings  on  the 
effects  of  the  new  technology  revolution  on  industry, 
labour  and  research  in  the  service  of  sustainable 
development.  The  global  character  of  this  subject 
makes it particularly appropriate to be discussing it in 
the  universal  framework  of  the  United  Nations,  and  I 
would  therefore  like  to  express  our  deep  appreciation 
to  Mexico,  which  spearheaded  the  discussion  of  the 
impact  of  rapid  technological  change  by  promoting 
the  adoption  of  resolution  72/242.  We  also  welcome 
and  support  the  related  new  draft  resolution  to  be 
adopted  during  this  ongoing  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  appreciate  the  outcome  of  the  third 
Multi-stakeholder  Forum  on  Science,  Technology  and 
Innovation  for  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  I 
would like to recognize Japan and Mexico’s successful 
efforts  as  co-Chairs  of  that  event,  and  we  are  also 
grateful to the key speakers in today’s informal meeting 
for their insightful presentations.
Italy  shares  the  vision  outlined  in  the  Secretary-
General’s Strategy on New Technologies and supports 
its  main  principles  and  commitments.  We  believe 
that  new  and  rapidly  developing  technologies  have 
incredible  potential  for  advancing  human  welfare 
and  achieving 
the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  as  long  as  they  are  aligned  with  the 
values enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
norms and standards of international laws. Technology 
and innovation can bring huge advances in the area of 
risk  assessment  and  disaster  prevention,  as  well  as  in 
the  monitoring  and  mitigation  of  climate  change,  the 
promotion of sustainable agriculture, access to medical 
diagnostics  and  treatments,  the  improvement  of  basic 
and  vocational  education,  and  better  management 
of  urbanization  processes  through  the  building  of 
smart cities.
Italy is leading in technological innovation in all of 
those fields. For example, we are playing a leading role 
in  the  Galileo  satellite  system,  a  project  that  offers  a 
unique tool for disaster risk reduction and gives concrete 
support to various projects in small island developing 
States  and  least-developed  countries  designed  to  use 
satellite data for early-warning systems and responses 
to environmental disasters.
In  conclusion,  Italy  reiterates  its  support  for 
continuing  the  dialogue  on  technological  innovation 
in  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  in  order  to 
ensure  that  our  actions  in  this  field  are  guided  by 
the  fundamental  principles  of  human  rights,  peace, 
international  cooperation  and  inclusiveness.  We  look 
forward to the next steps for this dialogue in the General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  and 
we intend to participate in it actively.
Mrs.  Rodríguez  Camejo 
in 
Spanish)  We 
thank  you,  Madam  President,  for 
convening this debate on agenda item 133, “Impact of 
rapid  technological  change  on  the  achievement  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals”.
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
Implementing  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development demands not only a cross-sector approach 
but also major efforts in which science, technology and 
innovation play a central and decisive role. For Cuba, 
the development of science, technology and innovation 
is  a  priority  that  produces  real  results  for  society. 
When its benefits are put at the disposal of sustainable 
development  they  make  countless  contributions  not 
only  to  economic  and  social  growth,  but  also  to  the 
promotion of knowledge and skills.
In the past few decades, the rapid development and 
adoption  of  new  technologies  has  been  guided  by  the 
cumulative and exponential nature of their growth, their 
convergence,  their  falling  costs  and  the  Internet.  The 
technologies with the greatest potential to help achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals include big data, the 
Internet  of  Things,  artificial  intelligence,  blockchain, 
3D printing, biotechnology and renewable energy.
to 
in  order 
Digitization  and  connectivity  are 
that  have  provided  a  wide 
two  key 
range  of 
features 
take  advantage  of  digital 
new  opportunities 
technologies 
the 
to  address  virtually 
implementation  of  Agenda  2030  in  all  countries. 
Many  of  these  technologies  are  supported  on  global 
digital  platforms  and  will  radically  transform  not 
only people’s lives, but also the lives of the business, 
8/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
Government and social sectors over the coming decades. 
Therefore,  we  must  work  to  develop  the  necessary 
policies in order to ensure they are used safely and to 
the benefit of people.
At the global level, the resources exist to eliminate 
the existing gap between the countries of the North and 
the South and to promote broad, fair and equal access 
to and development of these technologies for all. This 
requires not only political will, but also commitment on 
the part of developed countries in terms of financing, 
investment,  training,  the  creation  of  infrastructure, 
the  dissemination  of  knowledge  and  the  transfer  of 
intellectual property and technology.
The  achievements  of  science,  technology  and 
innovation must be used to contribute to human well-
being.  Cuba  expresses  its  great  concern  about  the 
covert and illegal use of these technologies to promote 
war, 
subversion, 
unilateralism  or  terrorist  actions.  The  only  way  to 
prevent and confront these threats is cooperation among 
all States.
interventionism,  destabilization, 
Cuba  works  on  the  basis  of  a  national  social  and 
economic development plan that includes priorities to be 
applied until 2030 to develop a society oriented towards 
sustainable development in which science, technology 
and innovation play a fundamental role. These efforts 
have been carried out for more than half a century under 
the siege of the unjust and illegal economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  against  Cuba.  That  failed  policy 
hinders the full development of science, technology and 
innovation in my country because it impedes, inter alia, 
the purchase of raw materials, equipment and reagents 
for research and development in the biotechnology and 
pharmaceutical sectors; free access from Cuba to much 
of  the  contents  of  the  Internet;  payments  for  the  use 
of  broadband  service  for  the  country’s  international 
connectivity; access to high-performance brands and/
or  equipment  in  the  information  and  communications 
sector; the purchase of spare parts for the maintenance 
and operation of the wind farm to generate renewable 
energy, to mention but a few specific sectors.
Cuba  reiterates  its  commitment  to  combating 
inequality,  underdevelopment,  discrimination  and 
manipulation  and  to  establishing  a  more  just  and 
equitable 
in  which  science, 
technology and innovation contribute to the betterment 
international  order 
of human beings in such a way that their well-being and 
dignity are guaranteed.
Mr.  Denktaş  (Turkey):  As  a  member  of  the  core 
group  of  exponential  technological  change,  Turkey 
appreciates  Mexico’s  efforts  to  bring  the  issue  of  the 
impact of rapid technological change to the forefront of 
the United Nations. This topic is of increasing interest 
to  my  country,  which  has  the  youngest  and  second 
largest population in Europe.
As  we  undergo  the  fourth  industrial  revolution, 
we  should  not  deem  the  impact  of  technology  on  the 
economy  and  society  as  a  given.  We  need  to  shape  it 
with  policies  at  the  local,  national  and  global  levels. 
Member States and the United Nations could and should 
influence these processes. The United Nations should 
serve  as  a  platform  to  build  awareness  and  establish 
good  models  for  country  regulatory  frameworks  on 
this emerging issue. At the national level, policymakers 
should  embrace  and  direct  new  technologies,  adopt 
flexible policies and promote capacities to innovate.
We need proactive policies to help the labour market 
adapt to new demands and emerging technologies. We 
should also focus on training for new skills. This is not 
a matter for a single country or a group of countries to 
address.  It  concerns  citizens  of  the  world  as  a  whole. 
We need more research to help Governments and people 
prepare for the changes brought by artificial intelligence 
and robotics. We also have to improve our understanding 
of  the  potential  impact  of  new  technologies  on  low-
income countries. The United Nations should support 
countries in developing the capacity to deal with rapid 
technological change through partnerships, as well as 
the exchange of experiences and know-how.
issue 
in  achieving 
Scientific  and  technological  innovation  constitutes 
a  cross-cutting 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). This year’s Multi-Stakeholder 
Forum  on  Science,  Technology  and 
Innovation 
highlighted the potential of technology to bridge sectoral 
and institutional silos, which is essential for achieving 
the  SDGs.  New  technologies,  including  artificial 
intelligence, biotechnology and robotics, could generate 
new  solutions  to  SDG  implementation.  However, 
they  also  risk  widening  the  existing  gaps  between 
developed and developing countries unless the access 
of the latter to technology is promoted and supported. 
In  this  vein,  Turkey  strongly  supports  strengthening 
the science, technology and innovation capacity of the 
18-32542
9/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  to  facilitate  their 
technological leapfrogging.
We are confident that the Technology Bank, hosted 
by Turkey in Gebze, will play a key role in promoting the 
integration  of  LDCs  into  the  global  knowledge-based 
economy.  The  Bank  will  strengthen  the  capacity  of 
LDCs to scale up the deployment of technologies and 
manage intellectual property right issues. It will promote 
the  development  and  implementation  of  national  and 
regional science, innovation and technology strategies, 
strengthen partnerships among science, technology and 
innovation-related  public  entities,  the  private  sector 
and other stakeholders.
The  Bank  has 
science, 
technology  and  innovation  reviews  and  technology 
needs assessments in five countries — Guinea, Haiti, 
the Sudan, Timor-Leste and Uganda — in collaboration 
with  all  relevant  United  Nations  agencies.  The  Bank 
will  also  focus  on  improving  access  for  scientists 
and  researchers  to  data,  publications  and  science, 
technology and innovation initiatives in the following 
countries:  Bangladesh,  Mozambique,  Nepal,  Rwanda, 
Senegal,  Uganda,  Tanzania,  Bhutan,  Burkina  Faso, 
Liberia,  Madagascar  and  Malawi.  We  firmly  believe 
that the Bank will play a key role in fostering productive 
capacity, structural transformation, poverty eradication 
and sustainable development of LDCs.
initiated  baseline 
We take pride in the fact that the establishment of 
the  Bank  marked  the  first  Sustainable  Development 
Goal target to be achieved: SDG 17.8. Its achievement 
has been highly symbolic, as it responds directly to the 
principle of leaving no one behind of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
We  call  on  all  partners  to  support  the  Bank’s 
activities through both contributions and partnerships.
Mr.  Cho  Tae-yul  (Republic  of  Korea):  Today’s 
topic  reminds  me  of  the  meeting  that  I  had  with 
President Jim Kim of the World Bank last year in my 
capacity as the Chair of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
President Kim said then that, each time he visits Silicon 
Valley, he is taken aback at how rapidly technology is 
developing.  He  was  excited  about  the  great  promise 
frontier technologies hold for humankind. But to make 
the point that technology can potentially eradicate low-
wage manufacturing jobs in many parts of the world, 
he  cited  the  example  of  3D  printers  now  being  able 
to print a seamless suit at the cost of only a couple of 
hundred  dollars.  He  could  not  stress  strongly  enough 
the sense of urgency for the international community, 
especially the United Nations, to be fully aware of and 
prepare for these extraordinary developments. I could 
not agree with him more, especially on the point that 
the United Nations needs to take action. And for that 
reason,  I  wish  to  thank  you,  Madam  President,  for 
taking the initiative to convene today’s meeting on this 
very important topic.
Throughout  history,  technology  has  been  a  key 
enabler for humankind to take great leaps forward. The 
agricultural  revolution  in  the  Neolithic  Age  liberated 
humankind  from  food  insecurity,  while  the  industrial 
revolution in the eighteenth century laid the groundwork 
for the digital innovation of today. But unlike in the past, 
today’s frontier technologies — encompassing, among 
others,  artificial  intelligence,  robotics,  biotechnology 
and  nanotechnology  —  do  not  stop  at  supporting  our 
efforts  to  achieve  economic  development.  They  are 
now  rapidly  driving  the  transformation  of  our  social 
and  economic  landscapes  to  the  point  of  potentially 
outpacing our ability to foresee and adapt to the changes 
looming on the horizon.
In fact, these new technologies can provide powerful 
ways  to  achieve  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  a  world  free  of  poverty,  epidemics 
and  violence.  Recent  reports  of  the  Department  of 
Economic  and  Social  Affairs  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  detail  how 
frontier  technologies  can  help  achieve  each  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by increasing 
productivity at lower cost and developing new solutions 
for critical global challenges.
At  the  same  time,  rapid  technological  advances 
are  giving  rise  to  increased  uneasiness  and  anxiety 
related to privacy, equality, equity, ethics, job security 
and  cybersecurity,  to  name  but  a  few.  Meaningful 
dialogue and cooperation with all relevant stakeholders 
are  essential  if  we  are  to  harness  the  promise  of 
those  technologies  to  achieve  sustainable  peace  and 
development,  and  still  address  potential  adverse 
consequences in a timely manner. The United Nations, 
with  its  unique  convening  power  and  a  brand  like  no 
other, is best poised to mobilize all the relevant actors, 
especially the private sector, which is at the forefront 
of developing and deploying emerging technologies to 
make collective choices regarding new technologies.
In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the 
Secretary-General’s  Strategy  on  New  Technologies, 
10/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
which sets out how the United Nations can effectively 
support the use of new technologies to better address 
global  challenges,  in  line  with  universal  values  and 
obligations,  by  reforming,  innovating  and  building 
the capacity of the Secretariat, among others. We also 
welcome  the  High-level  Panel  on  Digital  Cooperation 
that  was  launched  to  implement  the  Strategy,  and  the 
Secretary-General’s  Technology  Innovation  Labs,  to 
which  the  Republic  of  Korea  has  decided  to  provide 
financial support.
The  Republic  of  Korea  has  been  able  to  achieve 
rapid  industrialization  by  making  use  of  technology 
and human capital. Based on our own experiences, we 
firmly  believe  that  developing  countries  have  much 
to  gain  by  taking  advantage  of  the  new  opportunities 
offered  by  emerging 
technologies.  Technological 
development can help accelerate the implementation of 
the  SDGs  by  reducing  transaction  costs  and  creating 
new  businesses  in  areas  such  as  energy,  education, 
environment,  food  security,  and  health.  In  fact,  that 
applies to developed countries as well.
All  countries,  developed  and  developing  alike, 
therefore  need  to  focus  on  educating  our  young 
generation to effectively use those frontier technologies. 
We  also  need  to  reduce  the  technological  gap  among 
terms  of  research  and  development 
countries 
in 
expenditures, 
infrastructure,  business  ecosystems, 
domestic governance and capacity. The United Nations 
can provide the platform to share best practices in that 
regard  and  support  Governments’  efforts  to  build  the 
necessary capacity.
took 
Mr.  Korneliou  (Cyprus),  Vice-President, 
the Chair.
It  is  against  that  backdrop  that  my  delegation 
welcomes  the  timely  draft  resolution  to  be  submitted 
by Mexico on the impact of rapid technological change. 
We  should  also  consider  further  developing  that  text 
in  line  with  technological  advances  in  the  coming 
years. My delegation will participate constructively in 
related discussions.
Israeli  historian  Yuval  Noah  Harari  predicted  in 
his recent book, entitled Homo Deus: A Brief History 
of Tomorrow, that humankind equipped with data and 
artificial  intelligence  will  no  longer  be  vulnerable  to 
famine,  epidemics  and  war  in  the  future.  I  sincerely 
hope  that  the  United  Nations  can  guide  the  global 
discourse to come up with transformative solutions on 
the use of frontier technologies to better prepare for the 
world predicted by this thought-provoking book.
Mr.  Skoknic  Tapia  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Chile welcomes the organization of this meeting, which 
allows us to address the very topical and important issue 
of rapid technological change. We therefore appreciate 
and value Mexico’s efforts to promote this agenda item, 
as we do the various presentations on the relevant work 
done  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations, 
which  demonstrates  the  global,  immediate,  profound 
and  irreversible  effects  of  new  technologies.  Those 
effects are manifested in our daily lives in various forms 
and  through  various  technologies,  such  as  artificial 
intelligence,  big  data,  automation,  neuroscience  and 
nanotechnology, to name but a few.
That  is  also  the  case  with  digital  technologies, 
which  have  revolutionized  economic  growth  and 
competitiveness,  to  the  extent  that  today’s  global 
economy  is  a  digital  economy.  These  technologies 
interact in a digital ecosystem, generating what is being 
called the fourth industrial revolution.
These  new 
to  solve 
the  problems 
technologies  open  up  multiple 
that  afflict 
opportunities 
humankind  and  represent  enormous  potential 
to 
accelerate human progress in such key areas as health, 
food,  energy  and  education.  The  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development rightly considers them to be 
catalysts for the Sustainable Development Goals, as well 
as a means to measure their progress. In that context, 
we must take advantage of the opportunities provided 
by the fourth industrial revolution and the 2030 Agenda 
to  design  more  effective  and  comprehensive  public 
policies that will allow us to improve the quality of life 
of our population in the long term.
Additionally,  the  speed  with  which  the  forces 
of  technological  change  are  shaping  the  world  of  the 
future  poses  major  challenges  both  for  our  countries 
and for the planet as a whole. These new technologies, 
essentially  produced  in  an  exogenous  manner,  have  a 
cross-cutting impact on society, affecting our systems 
of  production,  management  and  governance,  and 
threatening to increase inequalities and exert pressure 
on behaviours and value systems.
The  challenge  we  face  in  that  regard  is  to  build 
endogenous  capacity  into  new  technologies  to  reduce 
those  vulnerabilities.  In  that  connection,  Chile  has 
made  significant  efforts  to  build  capacities  in  very 
diverse areas. One such initiative is the development of 
18-32542
11/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
our own technology to change the energy matrix in the 
electricity sector through the use of renewable energies, 
which  has  allowed  us  to  lead  the  energy  transition  in 
the region.
Another  fundamental  area  for  our  country  is  big 
data  and  its  link  to  artificial  intelligence,  since  we 
have  the  privilege  of  serving  as  a  platform  for  more 
than 50 per cent of the installed capacity of the world’s 
astronomical observatories — a figure that we expect 
to  reach  75  per  cent  by  the  beginning  of  the  next 
decade. The amount of data generated by this scientific 
activity  and  the  models  and  computational  capacity 
necessary to analyse them offer a unique opportunity 
for  our  country  to  become  a  global  platform  for  big 
data and a privileged space to stimulate experimental 
developments in artificial intelligence.
Those  encouraging  developments  should,  in  turn, 
encourage  us  to  study  the  social  consequences  and 
ethical  limits  of  scientific  research  and  engineering. 
That  is  especially  the  case  for  the  use  of  artificial 
intelligence and robotics applications, an area in which 
we  see  potential  interest  in  regional  cooperation  with 
a  view  to  joining  discussions  already  under  way  in 
other regions.
Those examples demonstrate both the relevance and 
the  necessity  of  this  afternoon’s  meeting.  We  believe 
that it is imperative for Governments, the private sector, 
international  organizations,  civil  society,  academia, 
technical communities and all other interested actors to 
know and exchange information about the opportunities 
and  challenges  of  rapid 
in 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
technological  change 
That  is  why  Chile  actively  supports  international 
cooperation  in  this  area  and  in  the  discussion  of 
progress  achieved,  just  as  it  supports  the  creation  of 
action  plans  and  road  maps,  both  within  the  United 
Nations  mechanisms  and  in  the  various  multilateral 
and regional mechanisms. Ultimately, it is that type of 
discussion and good practices exchange that will enable 
us to make full and responsible use of the potential of 
new technologies for sustainable development.
Mrs.  Imnadze 
(Georgia):  We  welcome 
the 
convening of this important meeting, which is a good 
opportunity to discuss the impact of rapid technological 
change  on 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals and to reflect on related challenges.
the  achievement  of 
Georgia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
by  the  observer  of  the  European  Union.  I  would  now 
like to make a few remarks in my national capacity.
Over the past few years there has been an awakening, 
both  globally  and  within  the  United  Nations,  around 
emerging  technologies.  Much-needed  discussions  on 
how  to  leverage  technological  advancements  for  the 
improvement of human welfare have begun to coalesce. 
As  the  Secretary-General  noted  in  his  address  to  the 
General Assembly:
blockchain 
technology 
towards  achieving 
“Rapidly  developing  fields  such  as  artificial 
intelligence, 
and 
biotechnology  have  the  potential  to  turbocharge 
progress 
the  Sustainable 
Development Goals.” (A/73/PV.6, p. 3)
Those 
technologies  hold  great  promise  and 
potential.  They  can  contribute  to  curing  diseases, 
feeding growing populations, driving economic growth 
and  connecting  businesses,  communities,  families 
and  friends  across  the  globe.  Never  before  has  the 
international community been more ready to capitalize 
on  technological  change  to  address  global  challenges 
such as poverty, food security, corruption and climate 
change, and never before has action in that respect been 
so necessary. Technology can be the agent of change.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development can 
benefit  significantly  from  new  technologies  that  can 
analyse  large  quantities  of  health-care  data,  leading 
to scientific breakthroughs. Artificial intelligence can 
revolutionize  classrooms  and  provide  virtual  mentors 
that can analyse student learning patterns and prescribe 
individual learning plans to improve results. It can also 
drive  balanced  hiring  practices  and  spotlight  gender 
inequality,  as  well  as  map  poverty  from  outer  space, 
enabling real-time resource allocation.
the  Secretary-General 
The  High-level  Panel  on  Digital  Cooperation, 
July, 
established  by 
recent  Strategy  on  New  Technologies 
and  his 
illustrate 
in 
the 
recognizing  the  potential  of  those  technologies  and 
in  facilitating  discussions  and  enhancing  cooperation 
among stakeholders.
important  progress  being  made 
in 
While  discussing  and  highlighting  the  benefits 
that  new  technologies  can  bring  to  the  2030  Agenda, 
we  should  also  fully  recognize  the  potential  risks  it 
may  entail.  Artificial  intelligence  and  robotics-driven 
automation may result in the widespread displacement 
12/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
of workers in what is being called the fourth industrial 
revolution. The difference between this and the previous 
industrial revolutions, however, is its scale and the speed 
at which it is taking place. Although automation will be 
global, the impact will not be felt evenly. Developing 
countries and economies in transition are likely to bear 
the brunt of disruption as their traditional labour-cost 
advantages are undercut.
We should also remember that technology is only a 
tool, and in the hands of criminals or terrorists it could 
be maliciously used to enable new digital, physical or 
even  political  threats.  Yet,  the  promise  of  technology 
is too great to try to stop technological innovation. We 
cannot do it and should not try. Instead, we should strive 
to uphold the promise of technology while keeping its 
potential perils at bay.
Georgia has been actively engaged in issues related 
to rapid technological advancements and their potential 
for  disruption.  In  2015  and  2016,  in  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  Interregional  Crime  and  Justice 
Institute and with the participation of world-renowned 
experts  in  the  field  of  artificial  intelligence,  we 
organized events at the United Nations that addressed 
the issues related to the risks and benefits of artificial 
intelligence.  Last  year,  together  with  like-minded 
countries,  we  joined  Mexico  in  setting  up  the  core 
group  on  exponential  technological  change.  Georgia 
will  continue  to  be  committed  to  the  group’s  cause 
and  further  contribute  to  our  joint  efforts  to  enhance 
technology for the benefit of all in helping to achieve 
the Sustainable Development Goals.
Mrs. Pejanović Đurišić (Montenegro): I thank the 
President  for  maintaining  this  important  issue  on  the 
General Assembly’s agenda. I also thank the Mission of 
Mexico for coordinating and leading the preparation of 
the draft resolution we are discussing today.
While  Montenegro  fully  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement made by the observer of the European Union, 
I  shall  still  make  some  additional  remarks,  as  we  are 
all  aware  that  the  world  faces  tremendous  changes 
related  to  advancements  in  the  implementation  of 
new technologies.
Today, we are actually at the beginning of a fourth 
industrial revolution. Developments in information and 
communication  technologies,  artificial  intelligence, 
robotics, nanotechnology, biotechnology, 5G tomorrow, 
to name just a few, are all building on and amplifying 
one another. While the impending changes hold great 
promise  and  endless  possibilities  for  sustainable 
development  and  the  efficient  implementation  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  there 
is  a  set  of  broader  socioeconomic,  geopolitical  and 
demographic  drivers  of  change  that  parallels  the 
technological  revolution.  They  all  interact  in  multiple 
directions and intensify one another, with the potential 
to lead to greater inequality and decreased international 
stability and security.
That  is  why,  in  this  dynamic  and  interconnected 
environment,  where  the  limits  are  set  only  by  our 
imagination, Member States have to pool their resources 
in  order  to  leverage  rapid  technological  changes  and 
better  understand  all  the  benefits  and  risks  of  new 
technological innovations.
The draft resolution we are discussing today offers 
a  good  basis  for  further  actions,  relying  on  a  number 
of other relevant resolutions, declarations and reports. 
It  is  very  encouraging  to  recognize  that  the  previous 
resolutions  on  this  matter  had  a  positive  impact  on 
actions taken by the United Nations, and particularly the 
Economic and Social Council, through the Technology 
Facilitation Mechanism. A clear orientation towards a 
multi-stakeholder approach and the inclusion of diverse 
United  Nations  entities  and  partnerships  of  different 
actors are sound and in line with the principles that the 
Secretary-General has identified as guidelines for the 
Organization’s engagement with new technologies.
Montenegro supports and invites member countries 
to share national achievements, strategies, policies, best 
practices and other engagements. In that sense, I take this 
opportunity to share an excellent experience we have had 
in  working  with  the  International  Telecommunication 
Union (ITU) and other countries on Montenegro’s digital 
innovation  profile.  This  is  an  analysis  of  a  national 
innovation  ecosystem,  which  provides  a  comparable 
measurement  of  national  technological  innovation 
capabilities  in  an  international  context.  The  result 
will be a comprehensive understanding for developing 
digital  ecosystems,  including  for  designing  policies, 
implementation  programmes  and  projects.  In  that 
manner, with ITU’s help in identifying good practices, 
we are building elements that are critical to the digital 
transformation  of  our  country,  centred  on  achieving 
a  number  of  related  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
and targets. We also support the request that the reports 
and findings of the relevant United Nations mechanisms 
and commissions be updated in a timely manner with 
an evidence-based approach so as to provide adequate 
18-32542
13/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
for 
elements 
intergovernmental  conclusions  and 
recommendations.  Regular  yearly  discussions  in  the 
General Assembly on the progress and status of United 
Nations  actions  aimed  at  embracing  technological 
change in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda must 
be  continued  as  a  way  to  monitor  the  effects  of  the 
measures taken and to ensure timely responses to rapid 
changes and developments in this area.
While  ensuring  that  all  our  actions  align  with 
international law, the Charter of the United Nations and 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is crucial 
that we not get lost in details and that we clearly and 
resolutely  embrace  optimism  over  the  increasing  fear 
that we are so often witnessing these days.
Mr. Lal (India): The human story is in many ways 
the story of technology. The genius of technology has 
always shaped human lives, societies and civilizations. 
We  have  come  a  long  way  from  shaping  stone  tools 
and  mastering  fire  to  the  excitement  of  robotics  and 
artificial  intelligence.  Along  the  way,  we  have  seen 
critical  advances,  such  as  the  extraction  and  use  of 
metals  and  of  various  forms  of  energy.  Technology 
has  improved  lifespans,  provided  food  for  expanding 
populations, driven globalization and landed people on 
the  moon.  Human-made  factors  have  also  sometimes 
brought us closer to the prospect of annihilation.
innovation 
The  twentieth  century  saw  science  improve  our 
understanding  of  building  blocks  such  as  the  atom, 
the  gene  and  the  byte.  It  gave  way  to  technologies 
that can manipulate those building blocks to generate 
immense  power  in  energy,  medicine  and  information 
and  communication  technologies  (ICTs).  The  ever-
increasing  pace  of 
in  areas  such  as 
artificial 
intelligence,  robotics,  synthetic  biology, 
digital  networking,  big-data  analytics,  3D  printing, 
nanotechnology,  the  Internet  of  Things,  financial 
technology, new materials and unmanned vehicles, as 
part of the fourth industrial revolution, affects a whole 
range of activities such as manufacturing and services, 
health care, education, development, renewable energy, 
geospatial information management, space technology 
and  even  warfare.  Their  convergence  is  facilitated  by 
the  emergence  of  digital  platforms  and  the  reduction 
in  entry  costs  for  innovators.  They  are  once  again 
completely altering businesses and the ways in which 
people interact with one another and with Governments.
Although  technology  is  neutral,  its  deployment 
and  access  to  its  benefits  are  not.  While  emerging 
technologies,  from  cyber  and  genetic  engineering  to 
artificial intelligence, can transform lives for the better, 
the disparities in access to them exacerbate the existing 
inequalities and create new fault lines. There are also 
other concerns associated with these technologies that 
have  to  be  addressed,  such  as  cybersecurity,  possible 
cyberattacks  on  critical  infrastructure,  the  privacy 
of  personal  data,  ethical  issues  regarding  genetic 
manipulation  and  the  obsolescence  of  some  jobs  and 
industries. Each industrial and technological revolution 
has had losers as well as winners among communities 
and even nations, but we cannot afford that now. The 
ever-increasing  pace  of  technological  change  and  its 
convergence,  and  the  uncharted  potential  effects  on 
human lives, economies and polities, require a serious 
discussion among all of us and the various stakeholders 
on  the  possible  need  and  scope  for  international 
cooperation  and  governance  in  certain  areas.  We 
therefore  welcome  today’s  discussion  on  the  impact 
of  this  rapid  change  on  the  achievement  of  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We  also  look 
forward to receiving the report of the High-level Panel 
on Digital Cooperation set up by the Secretary-General.
India  has  consistently  recognized  the  value  of 
deploying science and technology to improve people’s 
lives.  From  the  green  revolution  in  food  security  to 
remote sensing in agriculture and fisheries to disaster 
risk  reduction  and  nuclear  energy  for  health  care, 
we  continue  to  invest  in  science  and  technology  for 
sustainable  development.  The  use  of  ICTs  to  leapfrog 
and  scale  up  financial  inclusion  represents  a  major 
transformational  intervention.  It  is  being  achieved  by 
interlinking  biometric-based  unique  identity  systems, 
opening  bank  accounts  and  using  smartphones, 
especially  for  the  poor  and  marginalized,  in  order  to 
enhance  the  outreach  and  delivery  of  Government 
services  while  improving  transparency  and  reducing 
corruption.  ICT 
tools  are  also  being  effectively 
deployed  to  improve  the  quality  of  education  and 
health-care services as well as access to them, including 
through  tele-education  and  telemedicine.  Geographic 
information-management  systems  are  being  deployed 
to  provide  information  about  water,  crop  inventories, 
the availability of other natural resources and real-time 
early  warnings  for  natural  disasters.  We  have  been 
increasingly  emphasizing  imparting  vocational  skills 
that  can  help  people  to  find  appropriate  employment 
opportunities.  One  of  our  flagship  programmes  is 
Digital India, which seeks to use such technologies in a 
range of sectors and to bridge the digital divide.
14/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
Technology is a cross-cutting enabler for sustainable 
development,  economic  growth,  social  inclusion  and 
environmental  sustainability.  In  an  interdependent 
world, 
risks  of  uneven  economic  growth, 
development  and  climate  change  are  also  globalized. 
It is in our collective interest to collaborate to provide 
more  equitable  access  to  technology.  Commercial 
interests must be balanced against the greater good. 
the 
the 
transformative 
In  conclusion, 
impact  of 
emerging technologies for the greater good is clear, even 
while their other implications are not fully understood. 
Those require greater discussion, understanding and a 
sense of collaboration for our collective interest.
Mr.  Chumakov  (Russia)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
world  is  on  the  threshold  of  a  significant  paradigm 
shift and there is a growing demand for new economic 
and  social  models  that  can  take  on  the  challenges  of 
globalization  and  increasing  interdependence.  The 
pace  of  technological  progress,  stimulated  by  the 
digital  economy,  is  continually  increasing.  Emerging 
technologies such as artificial intelligence, the Internet 
of  Things,  3D  printing  and  others  are  changing 
society  at  an  ever-increasing  speed.  In  particular,  the 
use  of  artificial-intelligence  capacities  to  transition 
to  exponential  development  could  lead  to  profound 
economic, social and environmental results and changes 
involving 
consumers,  Governments, 
research 
and 
society  as  a  whole.  Biotechnologies  are  transforming 
agriculture,  while  nanotechnology  research  is  paving 
the  way  for  new  methods  of  medical  diagnostics  and 
treatment. However, it is also clear, as many speakers 
have  said  here  today,  that  new  technologies  can  also 
bring certain risks, especially for developing countries, 
and can contribute to an increasing technological divide 
in which those countries are left behind.
industry  organizations 
industries, 
institutes, 
Although  studying  the  impact  of  technological 
development is a relatively new process for the United 
Nations,  we  believe  that  the  Organization  already 
possesses  the  necessary  tools  for  it.  As  we  see  it,  the 
Multi-stakeholder  Forum  on  Science,  Technology  and 
Innovation for the Sustainable Development Goals held 
under the auspices of the Economic and Social Council 
is the most appropriate global platform for exchanging 
views on the impact of new technologies on sustainable 
development, as well as for sharing best practices and 
experience  so  as  to  maximize  the  benefits  of  change, 
reduce  the  risk  of  negative  effects  and  discuss  the 
implementation of national, regional and international 
programmes  in  the  area.  We  would  be  interested  in 
obtaining more detailed information on the work of the 
High-level Panel on Digital Cooperation established by 
the Secretary-General.
that  scientific  progress  presents 
We would also like to underscore that studying the 
impact of technological progress should not be limited 
to  information  and  communication  technologies  and 
the solutions they bring, such as artificial intelligence 
and  blockchain  technologies.  A  more  balanced  and 
holistic  approach  to  identifying  the  challenges  and 
opportunities 
is 
essential.  In  particular,  there  has  been  discussion  at 
the international community’s highest levels for some 
years  now  of  issues  related  to  the  establishment  of  a 
new industrial order on a basis of nature-inspired and 
convergent  technologies.  We  firmly  believe  that  we 
are  about  to  make  a  major  leap  forward  in  the  areas 
of material sciences and genome research from which 
we will emerge at a new level in the development and 
implementation of such technologies. Essentially, that 
means broad interdisciplinary research at the nexus of 
the  mathematical,  physical,  biological,  information, 
cognitive and other sciences.
Mr. Lauber (Switzerland) (spoke in French): The 
Swiss  delegation  would  like  to  thank  Mexico  for  its 
commitment to this agenda item and for its leading role 
in encouraging discussion on a major topic of our times.
The  way  we  use  new  technologies  for  the  benefit 
of  all,  but  also  how  we  think  and  act  with  a  view 
to  achieving  greater  and  more  systematic  digital 
cooperation,  will  be  decisive  in  building  our  future. 
Digitization has brought many positive developments to 
the lives of millions over the past two decades. However, 
technology in itself is neither good nor bad. It is what 
we make of it that determines its qualities. We are at a 
decisive turning point, where citizens, businesses and 
politicians  are  increasingly  concerned  about  some  of 
the most complicated aspects of digitization.
With  regard  to  Government  intervention  and  the 
regulation  of  digitization,  Switzerland  believes  it 
important  to  follow  an  approach  that  is  conducive  to 
innovation.  Digitization  is  not  limited  to  connecting 
people  and  objects.  It  also  links  various  policy  areas 
that  have  traditionally  been  treated  independently  of 
one  another.  In  the  digital  world,  we  must  take  those 
interdependencies  into  account  by  jointly  addressing 
issues such as Internet access for all, market regulation 
and  the  potential  of  digitization  to  help  us  achieve 
18-32542
15/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In  that  regard, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  for 
convening  an  informal  meeting  of  the  Assembly  to 
discuss the impact of rapid technological change on the 
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.
from 
together  key  players 
The  2017  United  Nations  Internet  Governance 
Forum  brought 
the 
international  community  in  Geneva.  In  a  high-level 
session  on  the  future  of  global  digital  governance, 
we  heard  many  voices  from  various  interest  groups, 
including the private sector, calling for a higher level 
of  cooperation  that  would  lay  the  foundations  for  a 
more  stable  and  trustworthy  digital  space.  That  is 
why  Switzerland  warmly  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s  launch  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Digital 
Cooperation. We are sure that the Panel, which is made 
up  of  eminent  members  from  diverse  backgrounds, 
will generate concrete ideas on how the many actors in 
digital  governance  can  cooperate  more  constructively 
and effectively so that we can all take better advantage 
of  the  opportunities  afforded  by  digitization.  In  that 
regard,  we  also  firmly  believe  that  multi-stakeholder 
cooperation 
the  Internet 
Governance Forum has a key role to play in present and 
future  digital  cooperation.  Switzerland  looks  forward 
to  this  year’s  Forum,  which  will  take  place  in  Paris 
in November.
is  paramount  and 
that 
Lastly,  as  the  Assembly  may  know,  the  High-
level Panel on Digital Cooperation very recently made 
a  public  appeal  for  comments  on  the  key  aspects  of 
digital cooperation, particularly the values, principles 
and  mechanisms  that  are  at  stake.  Switzerland  would 
like to encourage active participation in that endeavour 
and in the work of the High-level Panel in general.
Mr.  Alshamsi  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly for convening today’s meeting, and 
the speakers and authors of the report (E/2018/50/Rev.1) 
for their guidance and contributions. On behalf of the 
United Arab Emirates, I want to thank the Secretary-
General for all his efforts on new development issues, 
including  technology  and  digital  cooperation.  We 
also  welcome  the  strategy  he  has  launched  on  the 
Organization’s approach to modern technologies.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  strongly  supports 
multilateral  activity  on 
interface  between 
technology  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
(SDGs), particularly with regard to emerging and new 
the 
technologies. If we are to achieve the important goal set 
by the President of making the United Nations relevant 
to all people, the Organization must be at the forefront 
of the issues that will determine development outcomes.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  believes  that  rapid 
technological  change  is  one  of  those  issues  that  have 
an  impact  on  development.  Artificial  intelligence 
has  become  a  source  simultaneously  both  of  global 
optimism  and  concern.  For  that  reason,  last  year  my 
Government  appointed 
the  world’s  first  Minister 
of  Artificial  Intelligence,  as  well  as  a  Minister  of 
Advanced Sciences. We take pride in the appointment 
of Mr. Mohammad Abdulla Al-Gergawi, our Minister 
of Cabinet Affairs and the Future, as a member of the 
High-level  Panel  on  Digital  Cooperation.  We  are  also 
honoured that next week the Emirate of Dubai will host 
the United Nations World Data Forum, in which Deputy 
Secretary-General Amina Mohammed will participate. 
We are determined to continue empowering ourselves 
and our global systems in order to manage technology 
and ensure that it is used for the benefit of humankind. 
Based  on  our  experience,  we  would  like  to  make  the 
following observations.
First,  we  must  not  underestimate  the  importance 
of  documenting  the  values  governing  technology  at 
the United Nations. The impact of rapid technological 
change on sustainable development is inherently linked 
to the fundamental values of technology. For example, 
we  must  ask  ourselves  whether  or  not  technological 
development and its uses bring us closer to achieving 
our  goal  of  eradicating  poverty  while  providing 
education,  combating  climate  change  and  achieving 
other  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  If  we  are  to 
answer  those  questions,  the  international  community 
must  agree  on  the  mechanisms  and  values  that  our 
management of technology and assessment of its uses 
will be based on.
Secondly,  we  must  take  advantage  of  both  the 
public  and  private  sectors  when  pursuing  the  use  of 
technology in the service of the SDGs. To ensure that 
the  United  Nations  performs  an  effective  role  in  this 
area, we need to invite the private sector to participate 
in  the  relevant  forums  and  meetings  held  in  order  to 
provide  partners  and  institutions  with  the  appropriate 
platform to enrich the debate on harnessing technology. 
For instance, the Famine Action Mechanism, which was 
launched this year during the high-level segment of the 
General Assembly at its seventy third session, was the 
outcome  of  collaboration  among  various  institutions 
16/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
and organizations aimed at predicting and responding 
to  famine  risks  by  using  technology  and  artificial 
intelligence. We hope to see more such partnerships.
Thirdly,  we  must  urgently  address  the  so-called 
technology  gap.  Reports  indicate  that  more  than 
half  of  the  world’s  population  is  not  connected  to  the 
Internet and is therefore deprived of the opportunities 
provided  by  technology  in  the  areas  of  education  and 
communication.  That  disconnection  from  technology 
and the digital leads to their inability to participate in 
subsequent modern development activities.
In  conclusion,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  looks 
forward  to  working  with  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations and all other stakeholders in order to achieve 
our desired goals.
Ms. Ahmad Rafie (Brunei Darussalam): We join 
others today in giving due recognition to the vital role 
of science, technology and innovation in achieving the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). At the outset, 
we  wish  to  recognize  the  invaluable  discussions  on 
this  topic  through  various  existing  platforms,  notably 
the  Multi-stakeholder  Forum  on  Science,  Technology 
and  Innovation  for  the  SDGs  and  the  Commission  on 
Science and Technology for Development.
Notwithstanding  those  forums,  we  see  merit  in 
taking every opportunity to enhance our understanding 
of the impact that rapid technological change can have 
on the achievement of the SDGs, and to share knowledge 
and  best  experiences  in  addressing  the  potential 
challenges  presented  by  technologies.  Unprecedented 
and  simultaneous  advances  in  artificial  intelligence, 
robotics, the Internet of Things, autonomous vehicles, 
3D  printing,  biotechnology,  materials  science,  energy 
storage, quantum computing and other technologies are 
redefining  industries,  blurring  traditional  boundaries 
and  creating  new  opportunities.  That  has  come  to 
be  known  as  the  fourth  industrial  revolution,  4IR  or 
Industry 4.0. The revolution is driven by digital data, 
connectivity and cyber systems. It has the potential to 
create  impressive  new,  and  sometimes  unimaginable, 
business  opportunities  for  those  who  are  innovative 
and agile.
Sustainable  development  calls 
for  concerted 
efforts  towards  building  an  inclusive,  sustainable  and 
resilient  future  for  people  and  planet.  For  sustainable 
development to be achieved, it is crucial to harmonize 
this revolution with economic growth, social inclusion 
and  environmental  protection.  All  of  those  elements 
are  interconnected  and  vital  to  the  well-being  of 
individuals  and  societies.  Brunei  Darussalam 
is 
cognizant  of  that.  His  Majesty  Sultan  Haji  Hassanal 
Bolkiah Mu’izzaddin Waddaulah and Yang Di Pertuan 
of  Negara  Brunei  Darussalam  recently  stated  that  the 
country is witnessing the fourth industrial revolution, 
where  digital  technology  is  changing  the  way  we 
live  and  work.  The  response  to  the  revolution  needs 
the  involvement  of  all  stakeholders  —  the  public  and 
private  sectors  as  well  as  the  community  —  with  a 
view  to  supporting  knowledge-based  development  of 
the nation.
For  Brunei  Darussalam,  our  national  Vision  2035 
aspires  to  create  a  well-educated  and  highly  skilled 
society,  improve  the  quality  of  life  and  generate  a 
dynamic and sustainable economy. In order to realize 
the benefits and harness the opportunities of the fourth 
industrial  revolution  for  its  society  and  industries, 
which is expected to show its benefits over the next 10 
to 20 years, Brunei Darussalam has worked to align its 
national  strategies  and  the  corresponding  ecosystems 
so  that  the  country  is  able  to  adapt  and  evolve  with 
current realities.
Education is a key component in the national strategy 
to equip our youth with the necessary knowledge and 
skills so that they can positively contribute to national 
growth. There is continuous review and upgrading of 
our education system as a whole, from foundational to 
tertiary education and through to continuing vocational 
training. The aim is to ensure the continued availability 
of a relevant stream of skills, with a specific focus also 
on science, technology, engineering and mathematics. 
Furthermore, as announced at the Legislative Council 
earlier this year, the Ministry of Education is placing 
great emphasis on improving the quality of education 
at  all  levels.  That  includes  a  focus  on  strengthening 
the  quality  of  teaching  and  learning  for  twenty-first 
century skill sets. At the same time, it is also our hope 
that  the  Centre  for  Lifelong  Learning  can  contribute 
to the development of a highly skilled workforce for a 
knowledge-based society, as envisaged in Vision 2035 
and beyond.
To ensure that the country’s governance, policies, 
laws and regulations are supportive of the advancement 
of  industries  and  the  creation  of  new  ones,  Brunei 
Darussalam 
information  and 
communications technologies (ICT) white paper for the 
period 2016-2020. The white paper promotes a national 
digital  strategy,  with  ICT  playing  a  role  as  Brunei’s 
launched  a  national 
18-32542
17/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
Supplementary 
to  establish  connections 
to 
future  engine  of  economic  growth,  and  focuses  on 
the six key sectors, namely, energy, health, transport, 
services,  education  and  e-government.  Dramatically 
scaling  up  the  ICT  infrastructure  will  put  in  place  a 
system that is fast, secure and reliable enough to support 
the hundreds of billions of industrial devices that will 
connect  to  the  global  industrial  Internet  of  Things. 
In  addition,  a  supporting  mechanism  that  will  allow 
small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from the 
digital economy, such as through e-commerce, is also 
being  developed,  from  cybersecurity  to  e-payment. 
Brunei Darussalam has geared up its efforts to diversify 
its economy, with manufacturing in various sectors and 
the  digital  economy  having  been  identified  as  both 
clusters  for  development  and  priorities  for  attracting 
foreign direct investment.
to 
that,  Brunei  Darussalam 
continues 
the  global 
economy  through  enhanced  economic  cooperation, 
which 
technical 
assistance.  That  is  evident  through  our  participation 
in  various  platforms  —  such  as  the  World  Trade 
Organization, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
and  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  —  that  support  efforts  to  facilitate  trade 
and  investment,  as  well  as  in  our  involvement  in 
various  multilateral  free  trade  agreements,  such  as 
the  Comprehensive  and  Progressive  Agreement  for 
Trans-Pacific  Partnership,  signed  earlier  this  year, 
and  the  ASEAN  regional  comprehensive  economic 
partnership,  which  is  currently  under  negotiation. 
That ensures us greater market access and strengthens 
trade  links  with  our  partners,  which  is  fundamental 
as we prepare ourselves to take advantage of potential 
opportunities  and  adapt  to  the  rapid  changes  that  the 
fourth industrial revolution brings about.
includes  capacity-building  and 
In  conclusion,  Brunei  Darussalam  will  continue 
to  place  emphasis  on  the  need  to  adopt  and  adapt  to 
the  changes  of  technology  and  the  fourth  industrial 
revolution,  in  particular  its  linkage  to  sustainable 
development. That is a part and parcel of our pledge to 
achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and bring 
our people and planet closer together.
Mrs. Furman (Israel): I would like to thank Assistant 
Secretary-General Hochschild and the co-Chair of the 
Multi-stakeholder  Forum  on  Science,  Technology  and 
Innovation for the Sustainable Development Goals, for 
their interesting and timely briefings.
the  achievement  of 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  Mexico  for  last 
year  initiating  the  agenda  item  “Impact  of  rapid 
technological  change  on 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals”,  which  provides  a 
platform for discussing and promoting this topic. Israel 
is pleased to be part of the Group of Friends on Rapid 
Technological Change, which was created by Mexico. 
We  actively  participated  and  supported  the  Mexican 
resolution  (resolution  72/242)  under  this  item  during 
the seventy-second session, and we will engage again 
on the updated draft resolution during this session.
Israel is on the cutting edge of global technological 
innovation. Every day, Israelis and Israeli companies are 
redefining what is possible. What was barely imagined 
yesterday  is  in  our  hands  today.  It  is  a  challenge,  but 
also  an  opportunity.  The  pace  of  change  is  now  so 
rapid that we have come to rely on specialists to help 
inform  policy  decisions.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome 
the  establishment,  earlier  this  year,  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  High-level  Panel  on  Digital  Cooperation. 
Israel  is  proud  that  Kira  Radinsky,  an  Israeli,  was 
appointed  to  the  High-level  Panel  and  is  one  of  its 
youngest  members.  Ms.  Radinsky  has  a  remarkable 
record of achievements. Among her accomplishments, 
Ms. Radinsky developed an algorithm that can recognize 
early-warning signs for predicting global events, such 
as  political  riots  and  epidemics.  Israel  fully  supports 
the  work  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Panel  and  looks 
forward to its final report.
I  would  like  to  congratulate  Japan  and  Mexico 
on  their  leadership  of  the  Multi-stakeholder  Forum 
on  Science,  Technology  and  Innovation  for 
the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Science,  technology 
and  innovation  require  partnership  and  collaboration, 
which  multi-stakeholder  networks  can  provide. 
Education  is  vital  to  facing  the  fast-changing  world. 
Preparing youth for rapid technological change is key. 
We  need  to  empower  young  people  and  provide  them 
with  the  tools  and  skills  to  be  agents  of  change.  One 
Israeli start-up, for example, teaches very young girls 
and  boys  the  basics  of  programming  through  play, 
using  physical  bricks  to  build  robots.  Creativity  and 
entrepreneurial spirit are needed to ensure that all girls 
and boys have the skills to benefit from, and eventually 
lead, technological change.
Women are an integral part of that change and must 
not  be  left  behind.  Technology  can  provide  women 
and  marginalized  groups  with  new  opportunities 
that  they  previously  lacked.  That  includes  access  to 
18/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
many services, such as finance, health, education and 
security. Technology affects every aspect of our lives 
today, but we must remember that technology is a tool 
at the service of people. It is up to us to make sure that 
we  use  technology  to  make  a  positive  difference  in 
order to help transform the world into a better place and 
achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mr.  Margaryan  (Armenia):  Armenia  welcomes 
the  convening  of  today’s  meeting  and  the  briefings 
delivered during the informal plenary meeting earlier 
today.  This  meeting  provides  a  good  opportunity  to 
reflect on the transformative role of new technologies, 
which have served as a fundamental driver of change 
by  enhancing  possibilities  for  more  inclusive  and 
participatory  societies.  It  is  also  the  area  that  vividly 
demonstrates  the  most  visible  progress  that  we  have 
all achieved throughout the transitioning process from 
the Millennium Development Goals to the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  We  welcome  the  prioritization 
of  new  technologies  by  the  Secretary-General  and 
the  establishment  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Digital 
Cooperation.  We  also  welcome 
the  Secretary-
General’s  Strategy  On  New  Technologies  to  enhance 
coordination  and  effectiveness  across  the  work  of 
United Nations agencies.
In Armenia, we are committed to embracing new 
technologies  to  create  knowledge-based  platforms  for 
accelerating  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. In doing that, we rely on our human 
capital  by  placing  high  priority  on  providing  youth 
across  the  country  with  digital  training  and  access 
to  information  and  communication  technologies  as  a 
means  for  empowerment  and  capacity-building.  The 
Tumo  Centre  for  Creative  Technologies,  established 
in  Armenia,  is  an  example  of  a  creative  educational 
programme  where  thousands  of  teenagers  have  an 
opportunity  to  learn  about  new  technologies  through 
hands-on learning about the latest digital possibilities. 
The Tumo Centre is today expanding beyond the region, 
with new centres opening in Paris, Beirut, Moscow and 
Tirana,  to  allow  young  students  to  operate  the  latest 
digital tools and learn of and explore opportunities in a 
creative environment.
Armenia  is  a  country  with  a  very  high  rate  of 
Internet  penetration  and  is  home  to  a  vibrant  and 
growing information technology industry that is using 
the potential of the tech community and diaspora links. 
New  technologies,  including  digital  technologies,  are 
also being increasingly used to improve the efficiency 
of public services and the day-to-day operations of the 
Government. To that end, the Government of Armenia 
has  embarked  upon  a  digital  agenda  that  aims  to 
transform  Armenia’s  economy  into  one  that  is  high-
tech and innovation-oriented.
Armenia  hosted  the Summit of  the  International 
Organization of la Francophonie last week in its capital, 
Yerevan. One of the central themes of the Summit was 
“Digital  francophonie”,  which  focused  on  supporting 
the  involvement  of  youth  and  women  and  access  to 
digital technologies.
development 
The  United  Nations  remains,  through  its  various 
platforms, an important partner in helping to promote 
space for new ideas and creativity beyond the traditional 
mainstream 
cooperation.  Together 
with  the  United  Nations  country  team,  we  have  been 
setting  up  national  platforms  with  a  focus  on  the 
strong  impact  of  reform  and  innovation  in  advancing 
smart  development.  Armenia’s  National  Sustainable 
Development Goals Innovation Lab is a joint initiative 
of the Government of Armenia and the United Nations 
Development  Programme 
the 
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. 
One of the Lab’s priorities is to look at ways to apply 
modern  technology,  including  artificial  intelligence 
and big data, in addressing public policy issues.
to  help  accelerate 
Our track record gives us the confidence to continue 
on the path of innovation, while exploring further spaces 
for  experimentation  with  the  use  of  new  technologies 
for  public  benefit.  We  are  keen  to  encourage  further 
discussions  on  the  role  of  new  technologies  and 
innovation in support of socially and environmentally 
impactful projects, which is particularly relevant in the 
case  of  lower-middle-income  countries.  We  are  fully 
committed  to  promoting  technologies  and  innovation 
in  our  national  and  global  policies,  having  embraced 
them as a priority agenda.
Mr.  Castañeda  Solares  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  We  would  first  like  to  acknowledge  the 
statements  made  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
of  the  Republic  of  Estonia,  Mr.  Sven  Mikser,  and 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Mexico,  Mr.  Luis 
Videgaray Caso.
Before addressing the topic that has brought us here 
this afternoon, we express our appreciation for the call 
made  by  Mr.  Videgaray  Caso  regarding  the  attention 
that  should  be  given  to  the  migration  phenomenon, 
the  prioritizing  of  human  rights  and  the  protection 
18-32542
19/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
of  migrants,  which  are  fundamental  with  respect  to 
comprehensively addressing the causes of immigration.
I would now like to state Guatemala’s position on the 
impact of rapid technological change on achieving the 
Sustainable Development Goals. First of all, we thank 
the  delegations  that  have  contributed  to  introducing 
and promoting this topic on the United Nations agenda, 
and  we  particularly  commend  the  efforts  of  Japan 
and Mexico, which have aptly placed this issue at the 
forefront of the emerging issues in the debates of our 
Organization.  We  believe  that  rapid  technological 
change,  including  exponential  change,  is  increasingly 
relevant  to  all  countries,  particularly  on  the  path  to 
complying  with  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  given  that  it  will  affect  myriad  factors 
that influence progress in complying with each of the 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Much  of  the  problem  in  developing  policies 
that  are  consistent  with  the  challenges  presented  by 
rapid  technological  change  is  linked  to  the  lack  of 
information,  coupled  with  the  opacity  with  which 
we  anticipate  the  positive  and  negative  effects  of  the 
application  of  new  technologies  in  our  societies, 
economies, the environment and even our politics. That 
is why we greatly appreciate the work of the Technology 
Facilitation Mechanism and its inter-agency task team 
on  science,  technology  and  innovation,  which  —  in 
addition  to  contributing  to  the  broad  dialogue  on  the 
matter and thereby helping us to better understand the 
benefits,  vulnerabilities  and  problems  —  provides  us 
with  useful  elements  in  facing  the  challenges  arising 
from  this  issue.  Reliable  information  allows  us  to 
identify  the  causes  of  undesired  effects  or  to  correct 
those policies that, due to a lack of good planning and 
analysis, have had negative externalities.
An example of that is the orthodox, but mistaken, 
rhetoric  of  national  economic  policies  that  seeks  to 
demonize  free  trade  by  declaring  that  the  loss  of 
jobs is caused by migrants, when that is not the case. 
According to the Director-General of the World Trade 
Organization, Mr. Roberto Azevêdo, 80 per cent of jobs 
loss is due to the use of new technologies. That example 
suggests that by having clarity and certainty about the 
causes and effects of our public policies, we can better 
define them and minimize the negative effects.
In  that  connection,  we  must  urgently  promote 
knowledge  of  technologies  and  their  impact  on  our 
daily  lives.  We  therefore  support  this  initiative  and 
the  Technology  Facilitation  Mechanism  and  we  will 
support  the  draft  resolution  on  this  highly  important 
issue to be submitted for consideration by the Assembly 
at the current session.
Mr.  Hattrem  (Norway):  First,  let  me  express  my 
gratitude  to  Mexico  for  bringing  this  very  important 
topic  to  the  forefront,  both  through  a  highly  topical 
resolution  (resolution  72/242)  on  the  subject  and  by 
giving us an opportunity to share our reflections on the 
matter here today.
Digital  technology  has  enormous  potential  to 
advance  sustainable  development.  New  technologies 
can increase the welfare of people throughout the world, 
but such rapid shifts also give rise to new challenges. It 
is therefore important that we closely examine the role 
digital technology can play in sustainable development, 
while  increasing  our  awareness  of  the  new  set  of 
challenges it creates. To illustrate that with an example, 
we need to continue to make steps to bridge the digital 
divides  —  including  the  gender  digital  divide  —  that 
might  arise.  If  not,  we  risk  contributing  to  uneven 
growth and rising inequality.
Today’s mechanisms for international development 
cooperation  were  not  set  up  in  a  way  that  allows  us 
to  adequately  deal  with  the  rapid  shift  in  technology. 
Just recently, the World Bank announced that we will 
not reach our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
if  we  do  not  use  digitalization  and  new  technology 
effectively. We therefore need to close the knowledge 
gaps  and  promote  interdisciplinary  and  system-wide 
collaboration  in  this  field  so  that  our  development 
system  not  only  keeps  up  with  and  responds  to  the 
challenges that accompany new technologies, but also 
harnesses  and  unveils  the  significant  opportunities 
that arise.
The Secretary-General’s establishment of the High-
level Panel on Digital Cooperation and the Strategy On 
New  Technologies  shows  that  the  United  Nations  is 
putting this topic at the top of its agenda. We welcome 
those important initiatives and look forward to following 
their progress along the way, as well as to the Panel’s 
recommendations in nine months’ time. We are pleased 
that  our  Minister  of  International  Development,  His 
Excellency Mr. Nikolai Astrup, is among the members of 
the Secretary-General’s Panel, whose recommendations 
will draw from the wide experience and expertise from 
the public and private sectors, civil society, academia 
and  the  technical  community.  The  Minister’s  Panel 
20/22 
18-32542
18/10/2018 
A/73/PV.22
membership follows the recent launch of a Norwegian 
strategy  of  digitalization  and  technology  in  Norway’s 
international  development  cooperation.  Our  national 
experience  has  taught  us  that  many  companies  and 
organizations with rich technological competence stand 
ready to contribute, but that our efforts and development 
strategies would stand to gain from a more systematic 
and goal-oriented approach.
I  would  argue  that  the  same  is  valid  here  at  the 
United  Nations.  For  example,  at  the  Technology 
Facilitation  Mechanism  and  the  Science,  Technology 
and  Innovation  Forum,  we  have  been  presented  with 
a  steadily  increasing  number  of  exciting  examples  of 
new  technologies  and  how  they  can  be  constructive 
towards our attainment of individual SDGs — as well 
as several Goals at the same time. The goal today and 
for our future is to create better lives and opportunities 
for  more  people  on  the  planet  and  to  leave  no  one 
behind. In order to reach that goal, we need to tap into 
the immense bank of knowledge that exists and convert 
challenges into opportunities.
Let me conclude by saying that Member States can 
count  on  Norway’s  support  and  commitment  on  this 
important subject. We look forward to continuing this 
important debate at the United Nations.
Mr.  Jean  (Canada):  I  would  like  to  start  by 
thanking Mexico for taking such an active leadership 
role  in  bringing  the  challenges  and  opportunities  of 
rapid  technological  change  to  the  table,  including 
by  initiating  resolution  72/242,  on  the  impact  of 
rapid  technological  change  on  the  achievement  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We hope this 
year’s  draft  resolution  will  once  again  enjoy  many 
co-sponsors,  as  it  did  last  year,  with  Canada  being 
among them.
Canada is proud to be an early and active member 
of  the  core  group  that  Mexico  has  spearheaded  on 
exponential technological change. In Canada’s address 
to  the  General  Assembly  during  high-level  week  (see 
A/73/PV.16),  we  spoke  of  the  imperative  to  explore 
new ways of doing things. Sticking to old approaches 
will  not  help  us  meet  the  targets  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  There  is  great  potential 
in the domain of disruptive technologies for developing 
new,  forward-looking  approaches 
the 
2030 Agenda.
to  advance 
The  benefits  of  disruptive 
technologies 
development 
can  be  profound,  but 
for 
emerging 
technologies do not exist in a vacuum. They can, at a 
rapid pace, further exacerbate and replicate the existing 
inequalities, biases and prejudices that are systemic in 
the contexts in which they are developed and deployed. 
As we harness the potential of emerging technologies, 
it is critical to ensure that the ways in which we do so 
support economic and societal inclusion.
One  of  Canada’s  top  priorities,  as  we  consider 
ways to reap the benefits of disruptive technologies, is 
gender equality. That includes addressing a variety of 
issues  —  such  as  equal  access  for  women  to  capital, 
markets, digital technology and business development 
services  —  as  well  as  women’s  empowerment  and 
full  participation  in  leadership  and  decision-making 
processes.  Reducing  the  barriers  that  women  face 
and  promoting  the  empowerment  of  women  and  girls 
will  lead  to  benefits  for  their  communities  and  have 
a  variety  of  positive  spin-offs  that  will  contribute  to 
achieving the SDGs.
Despite 
the  rapid  proliferation  of  disruptive 
technologies  globally,  serious  digital  divides  remain 
between and within countries, including across gender, 
geography,  age  and  income  dimensions.  They  reflect 
inequalities  in  access  to  the  social,  economic  and 
cultural benefits of increased connectivity.
Even  in  countries  like  Canada,  connectivity  is  a 
challenge. Many of our remote, northern communities 
have  little,  poor  or  no  connectivity.  We  are  working 
to  help  address  the  issue.  Over  the  past  two  years, 
Canada’s  Government  has  built  partnerships  with  the 
private  sector  to  improve  connectivity.  We  have  also 
seen  communities  take  matters  into  their  own  hands 
and  begin  setting  up  community  networks  to  bring 
the  digital  world  to  their  schools,  hospitals,  small 
businesses and local Governments. They have done so 
creatively and within the existing regulatory framework 
for  service  providers.  In  that  regard,  South  Africa  is 
an  innovator  and  role  model  in  allowing  community 
set-ups  like  the  Zenzeleni  Networks,  which  provide 
affordable access to small communities.
As we continue to hold discussions that contribute 
to  shaping  future  approaches,  I  cannot  overstate 
the  importance  that  Canada  places  on  ensuring  the 
inclusion  of  all  stakeholders.  As  today’s  discussion 
highlights,  together  we  can  draw  on  a  diversity  of 
thought,  experience,  skills,  knowledge  and  ideas  to 
ensure  emerging 
technologies  are  developed  and 
deployed in ways that can support the future we want to 
18-32542
21/22
A/73/PV.22 
18/10/2018
see, a future that supports better outcomes for all and in 
which no one is left behind.
technology and innovation road maps and policies will 
be crucial in all of those efforts.
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
the  Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
of 
and Development.
Mr.  Ogilvy 
(Organization 
for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development):  Rapid  innovation, 
including  digitalization,  offers  enormous  potential  to 
boost productivity, incomes and well-being in all of our 
countries. It is our hope that they will accelerate efforts 
to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
and to leave no one behind.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  potential  for  new 
technologies  to  help  bridge  divides  and  to  reduce 
inequalities.  The  potential  for  developing  countries 
to  harness  the  benefits  of  leapfrogging  is  particularly 
encouraging.  The  potential  for  digital  technologies 
to  help  overcome  geographical  barriers  to  accessing 
markets — for land-locked countries or for small island 
economies, for example — is also clear.
We need to ensure that our investments in technology 
and in public goods, such as education and digital skills, 
help to tackle inequalities rather than accentuate them. 
Two hundred and fifty million fewer women than men 
today have access to Internet technologies and, despite 
progress,  women  and  girls  remain  underrepresented 
in  science,  technology,  engineering  and  mathematics 
subjects and career areas. Discriminatory social norms 
and institutions continue to be significant barriers in all 
of our economies.
We  know  that  innovation  will  disrupt  labour 
markets,  as  it  has  done  in  the  past  —  affecting  the 
distribution of jobs, wages and income. When it comes 
to our economies, the diffusion of digital technologies 
remains  incomplete  and  uneven  across  firms,  likely 
contributing to the widening productivity gap between 
global frontier firms and the rest.
innovation  are  broadly  shared.  That 
The  challenge  ahead  is  not  to  put  the  brakes  on; 
rather, it is a matter of working together to put the right 
policy  responses  in  place  to  ensure  that  the  benefits 
of 
includes 
strengthening  international  cooperation  to  address 
shared challenges — the taxation of increasingly digital 
economies,  for  example,  or  enhancing  collaboration 
on digital security issues, which very often transcend 
national  borders.  The 
role  of  national  science, 
My  organization,  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD),  will  publish 
next month its 2018 edition of the Science, Technology 
and  Innovation  Outlook.  For  the  first  time,  it  will 
contain a special chapter on such policies for the SDGs. 
Its  recommendations  will  be  wide-ranging.  It  will 
show,  for  example,  that  national  science,  technology 
and  innovation  policies  are  too  narrowly  focused  on 
national priorities, with insufficient focus and funding 
to target the global public goods that we all know will 
be crucial to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development. Our forthcoming report will 
also highlight how traditional science policy needs to be 
revisited. In areas such as artificial intelligence, gene 
editing and neurosciences, for example, the science and 
technology are moving faster than our legal and ethical 
rules. We need new science governance models that are 
aligned with that reality.
The OECD is already working hand in hand with 
others  in  many  of  those  areas,  including  the  United 
Nations family, to help put evidence on the table, drill 
down  into  the  challenges  and  help  design  solutions. 
Our Going Digital initiative aims to dismantle the silos 
that  still  prevail  in  public  policymaking  today  and  to 
advance more coherent and comprehensive approaches.
As Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAffee of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology wrote,
“Computers  and  other  digital  advances  are  doing 
for mental power ... what the steam engine and its 
descendants did for muscle power.”
Our  collective  responsibility  is  to  ensure  that  those 
changes  deliver  a  more  harmonious,  more  resilient, 
more inclusive and ultimately more sustainable global 
economy. I hope that the OECD can make a meaningful 
contribution in that shared endeavour.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. 
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 133.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
interpreters for remaining with us past 6 p.m.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
22/22 
18-32542
