United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
4th plenary meeting
Monday, 24 September 2018, 9.30 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.4
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 9.35 a.m.
High-level plenary meeting, to be known as the 
Nelson Mandela Peace Summit 
Agenda item 66
Peacebuilding and sustaining peace
Draft resolution (A/73/L.1)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  This  high-
level  plenary  meeting  is  held  in  accordance  with 
General  Assembly  resolution  72/243  of  22  December 
2017,  and  takes  place  under  agenda  item  66,  entitled 
“Peacebuilding and sustaining peace”.
I  warmly  welcome  everyone  to  this  high-level 
meeting, which will focus on global peace in honour of 
the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela.
The  General  Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft 
resolution 
issued  as  document  A/73/L.1,  entitled 
“Political  declaration  adopted  at  the  Nelson  Mandela 
Peace  Summit”.  Before  proceeding  further,  I  would 
like  to  inform  Members  that  action  on  the  draft 
political  declaration  will  be  taken  at  the  end  of  this 
opening meeting.
I would now like to make a statement.
It is an honour for me to be here today to celebrate 
the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela, one of the 
greatest leaders of our time. He was a leader who taught 
us  that  it  is  possible  to  forgive  and  for  reconciliation 
and peace to prevail over hate and vengeance. I would 
like  to  acknowledge  the  presence  at  today’s  meeting 
of Dr. Helena Ndume of Namibia, who was one of the 
first-ever  laureates  of  the  Nelson  Rolihlahla  Mandela 
Prize, along with the former President of Portugal Jorge 
Sampaio,  who,  regrettably,  could  not  be  here  with  us 
today. Their efforts to provide inclusive access to health 
and  education  are  an  inspiration  and  honour  Nelson 
Mandela’s legacy in today’s world.
Today the extraordinary legacy of Nelson Mandela 
is stronger than ever, five years after his death. Mandela 
was  always  guided  by  the  founding  principles  of  the 
United  Nations.  He  exemplified  the  values  of  peace, 
solidarity, cooperation and respect for all human beings, 
regardless  of  their  colour,  political  views  or  religious 
beliefs. Mandela himself once said,
“For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, 
but to live in a way that respects and enhances the 
freedom of others”.
I  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  President  Mandela  in 
Johannesburg in 2002 during the Rio+10 United Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development. Madiba’s love 
for South Africa shone in his eyes. His profound respect 
for human dignity permeated his interaction with those 
around  him.  Mandela  refused  to  accept  the  injustices 
of  his  time,  and  it  is  for  that  reason  that  his  legacy 
represents a beacon of hope for a world still ravaged by 
conflict and suffering.
The  threat  of  the  proliferation  of  chemical  and 
biological weapons still looms large. Tensions between 
nuclear-weapon  States, 
territorial  disputes,  ethnic 
divisions and the oppression of minorities persist. This 
bleak outlook poses a serious threat to peace and security 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-29593 (E)
*1829593*
A/73/PV.4 
24/09/2018
that  we  must  tackle  and  resolve  together.  We  are  at  a 
point where certain principles and values enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations have been called into 
question. The very principle of multilateralism is being 
challenged.  There  are  fears  about  our  ability  to  take 
collective  action  to  address  the  world’s  most  pressing 
issues,  such  as  poverty  and  hunger,  climate  change, 
conflict  and  war.  A  move  away  from  multilateralism 
would jeopardize the future of humankind and of our 
planet.  The  world  needs  a  social  contract  based  on 
shared responsibility, and the only forum we have for 
achieving  that  global  compact  is  the  United  Nations. 
That is why this year I am calling for us to recommit 
to its founding principles and to multilateralism. And 
the  General  Assembly  is  the  most  representative  and 
legitimate forum we have for dialogue and reconciliation 
aimed at building collective peace and security.
The  draft  political  declaration  (A/73/L.1)  we 
will  adopt  today,  thanks  to  the  commitment  of  States 
and  the  wise  leadership  of  South  Africa  and  Ireland, 
is  a  demonstration  of  the  central  role  played  by  the 
Assembly in achieving global agreements on peace and 
security around the world.
The Nelson Mandela peace declaration represents a 
relaunching of our commitment to peace and a renewal 
of States’ willingness to build a peaceful, prosperous, 
inclusive and fair world. It calls on us to reflect on the 
thousands of victims of conflicts in the world who need 
immediate  help  from  us,  the  States.  The  declaration 
reaffirms  our  commitment  to  the  sovereignty  and 
sovereign  equality,  territorial  integrity  and  political 
independence of States.
Respect for the sovereignty and self-determination 
of  peoples  represents  a  starting  point  for  maintaining 
peace and harmony among nations. It is clear that we 
can  uphold  and  respect  the  self-determination  and 
sovereignty  of  our  countries  while  also  committing 
to  collective  and  coordinated  action  to  build  more 
peaceful, sustainable and resilient societies. As Madiba 
knew, there can be no peace if there are still millions 
of  people  without  access  to  quality  education,  health 
care  or  decent  work,  and  if  there  is  still  hunger  and 
suffering.  But  that  requires  strong  global  leadership, 
which is so well represented in this Hall this morning.
It is an honour for me to preside over the General 
Assembly as we adopt a declaration that will undoubtedly 
give hope to the world and that further reaffirms that 
it  is  only  through  multilateralism  and  its  clearest 
expression — the United Nations Organization — that 
it  will  be  possible  to  achieve  the  peace  and  security 
to  which  we  aspire  in  order  to  achieve  development 
and prosperity.
There  are  many  challenges  we  face  in  achieving 
peace, and we must ask ourselves how we are going to 
address them. Whether we do it together, or alone and 
divided,  the  answer  is  entirely  up  to  us.  Personally,  I 
believe that we should always choose to walk together 
on  the  path  of  peace.  There  is  no  other  option.  In 
Mandela’s words, “It always seems impossible until it 
is done.” As a Latin American poet said, “Some people 
transcend death.” Madiba’s gentle, profound gaze and 
serene strength, which transformed violence into peace 
and  aggression  into  forgiveness,  are  more  alive  today 
than ever.
I  warmly  welcome  everyone 
level meeting.
to 
this  high-
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General.
The Secretary-General: Nelson Mandela was one 
of humankind’s great leaders. He embodied the highest 
values  of  the  United  Nations.  He  devoted  his  life  to 
serving  his  community  —  as  a  lawyer,  a  prisoner  of 
conscience, a peacemaker, a president and a respected 
elder. He cherished the ideal of a democratic and free 
society in which all people live together in equality and 
harmony. That was a bedrock cause for which he was 
prepared  to  fight  and  die.  He  faced  his  oppressors  in 
court,  knowing  they  had  the  power  of  life  and  death, 
and  he  refused  to  back  down.  As  a  political  prisoner, 
he  steadfastly  refused  to  allow  his  dignity  to  be 
undermined, and he became a rallying point for a global 
movement that led to the dismantling of the apartheid 
regime.  The  role  played  by  the  United  Nations  is  a 
milestone in our proud history.
As President of South Africa, Madiba championed 
women’s  rights  and  South  Africa’s  landmark  1996 
Constitution, which remains a beacon for human rights 
and  equal  opportunity.  Under  his  leadership,  South 
Africa  expanded  access  to  health  care,  education, 
housing, water, sanitation and electricity. Beyond South 
Africa’s borders, Madiba was a profound influence for 
peace  and  democracy.  In  Burundi,  for  example,  he 
played a key role in brokering the Arusha Agreement 
for Peace and Reconciliation, and everywhere he was a 
champion for peace, forgiveness, humility, compassion, 
dignity and human rights.
2/10 
18-29593
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.4
This  year  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Almost 
exactly  20  years  ago,  Nelson  Mandela  spoke  about 
that  landmark  document  in  this  Hall  (see  A/53/PV.7). 
He urged all leaders to have the courage to ensure that 
eventually we can build a human world consistent with 
the provisions of that historic Declaration. Those were 
the words of Nelson Mandela. Today, with human rights 
under  growing  pressure  around  the  world,  we  would 
be  well  served  by  reflecting  on  the  example  of  this 
outstanding man. We must face the forces that threaten 
us with the wisdom, courage and fortitude that Nelson 
Mandela  embodied.  That  is  the  only  way  to  build 
the  just,  peaceful  and  prosperous  world  envisioned 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
Madiba  was  a  global  citizen  whose  legacy  must 
continue  to  guide  us.  To  honour  that  legacy,  the 
Government  of  South  Africa  has  generously  donated 
a statue of Madiba that I was honoured to unveil this 
morning.  In  2015,  the  United  Nations  also  decided  to 
award the Nelson Mandela Prize every five years to two 
individuals  who  have  made  significant  contributions 
to the service of humankind. The first recipients were 
Namibian  philanthropic  eye  surgeon  Helena  Ndume 
and  my  good  friend  Jorge  Sampaio,  former  President 
of  Portugal.  Each  year,  we  also  observe  Nelson 
Mandela International Day by promoting and engaging 
in  community  service.  Today  we  remember  a  man  of 
great wisdom, quiet dignity and towering achievement 
who worked tirelessly for peace and human dignity for 
people everywhere. That is our Organization’s purpose 
and, as leaders, it is our responsibility. Let us commit to 
building on Nelson Mandela’s legacy so that all people 
everywhere  can  enjoy  peace,  prosperity  and  inclusive 
and sustainable development.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his statement.
In  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
72/243,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African 
Union Commission.
Mr. Mahamat (African Union) (spoke in French): 
The  life,  struggle,  work  and  symbolic  significance  of 
Nelson  Mandela  go  beyond  our  imaginings.  His  life 
was  one  of  unparalleled  riches  and  will  remain  the 
embodiment of fulfilled abundance. Words will never 
be adequate to describe him. As we all know, he shone 
his light in this Hall and in every corner of our planet 
where the thirst for peace, freedom and equality drained 
people’s spirits and haunted humankind.
In  January  2014,  in  remembrance  of  all  that  and 
many other things, the Summit of Heads of State of the 
African Union decided to declare 2014-2024 the Nelson 
Mandela Decade in Africa. In that regard, in January 2018 
the thirtieth Summit of Heads of State and Government 
agreed  to  commemorate  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of 
Nelson Mandela this year. Subsequently, the July 2018 
Summit supported holding the Nelson Mandela Peace 
Summit  on  the  margins  of  the  current  session  of  the 
General Assembly. In the same spirit, on 22 December 
2017, the General Assembly decided to convene a high-
level  plenary  meeting  on  peace  to  commemorate  the 
centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela.
The United Nations and the African Union have once 
again come together with enthusiasm to commemorate 
and honour the centenary of the birth of a giant of the 
modern history of Africa and the world, who matured 
through  suffering,  hardship  and  adversity  and  who 
dedicated his wisdom, his courage, his intelligence, his 
thought, his ethics, his humanism and all his faith to the 
freedom and dignity of humankind in all their nobility 
and  morality,  not  only  for  the  black  man  but  for  man 
and  his  place  in  relation  to  history  and  for  history  in 
relation to man.
Today we are commemorating the centenary of his 
birth.  While  we  mourn  his  physical  loss,  we  are  also 
proud  to  have  had  him  as  a  supreme  symbol  of  the 
African man and an inexhaustible source of inspiration 
for all generations. The true hallmarks of Madiba are 
not only his tenacity, courage and determination, or his 
ability  to  transcend  human  fragilities  as  he  described 
them  —  egotism,  vengefulness  and  the  inability  to 
forgive — but above all his dedication and commitment 
to  humanism  and  the  universal.  He  has  gone  down 
in  history,  he  made  history  and  he  has  made  African 
history everlasting. At a time when multilateralism is 
suffering  attacks  from  all  sides,  through  selfishness, 
intolerance, withdrawal and rejection of those different 
from  us,  the  commemoration  of  Madiba’s  centenary 
resounds  in  our  lives  as  an  intense  call  for  freedom, 
solidarity and peace among humankind.
What would he have said today in the light of all 
the challenges and anxieties we are facing? He would 
certainly  have  told  us  not  to  yield  to  fatalism  or  to 
18-29593
3/10
A/73/PV.4 
24/09/2018
abandon  our  struggle  for  life.  He  would  certainly  not 
have told us to resolve our conflicts with fire and the 
sword,  nor  with  hatred,  exclusion,  repression  or  the 
oppression  of  others.  On  the  contrary,  he  would  have 
urged  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  dare  to  fight  and 
to win.
At this emotionally charged moment in this high-
level meeting of the world’s decision-makers, I would 
like  to  voice  the  full  commitment  of  the  African 
Union and Africa to the universal values that Madiba 
embodied,  which  are  his  legacy  and  for  which  he 
gave the best of himself for eternity. Our tribute to an 
immortal icon also sends a vivid message of our esteem 
and respect for all the fighters for freedom everywhere 
in the world. In that regard, we are pleased to see that 
the heirs of that great man in the rainbow nation that 
he  brought  forth,  South  Africa  —  and  beyond  it,  in 
the rest of Africa and throughout the world — remain 
passionately  committed  to  his  universal  message  and 
more determined than ever to carry on his legacy. May 
the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit represent a decisive 
step in establishing genuine peace in the world.
I 
The  President 
thank 
Mr. Mahamat for his statement.
(spoke 
in  Spanish) 
In  accordance  with  decision  72/564  B,  of 
13  September  2018,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency Mr. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, President 
of the Republic of South Africa.
President Ramaphosa: On behalf of the Mandela 
family  and  the  people  of  South  Africa,  allow  me 
to  express  our  humble  appreciation  to  the  United 
Nations  for  convening  this  special  Summit  in  honour 
of  the  founding  President  of  our  democracy,  Nelson 
Rolihlahla Mandela.
In 1994, during his inaugural address to the General 
Assembly, President Mandela said,
“The  great  challenge  of  our  age  to  the  United 
Nations  is  to  answer  the  question  ‘Given  the 
interdependence of the nations of the world, what is 
it that we can and must do to ensure that democracy, 
peace and prosperity prevail everywhere?’” (A/49/
PV.14, pp.8-9)
The  signing  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
took place more than 70 years ago, in a world different 
from ours today. It was a world still reeling from the 
clash of great Powers in the Second World War that cost 
the lives of close to 5 per cent of the world’s population 
at the time. It was from that collective trauma that the 
United Nations was born. Countries sought to reimagine 
a  world  where  nations  would  cooperate  rather  than 
clash, and where friendly relations would lead to social 
progress,  peace  and  development  and  a  better  life  for 
all. For those noble ideas to be realized, however, they 
needed to find expression in the actions of those taking 
up the mantle of leadership at the most trying of times.
One  such  leader  was  born  in  the  small  village  of 
Mvezo,  in  the  eastern  part  of  South  Africa,  in  1918. 
He  would  come  to  represent  the  hopes  of  millions  of 
South Africans who dreamed of a life unshackled from 
a  system  that  limited  their  potential  and  stifled  their 
possibilities based merely on the colour of their skin. 
The  story  of  South  Africa’s  transition  from  apartheid 
to  democracy,  and  the  role  played  in  it  by  Nelson 
Mandela,  is  well  known.  It  is  a  story  of  humankind’s 
great  capacity  for  goodness,  peace  and  hope.  It  was 
also  that  capacity  that  led  to  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations, which served as an important platform 
for  the  anti-apartheid  movement  and  which  continues 
to be a platform for other struggles against oppression, 
war  and  global  injustice.  Since  the  formation  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  world  has  faced  many  crises  that 
have tested the limits of diplomacy and the multilateral 
system.  Throughout  those  crises,  the  United  Nations 
has endured as a force for stability, cooperation and the 
peaceful resolution of conflict.
While  much  has  been  done  to  ensure  that  the 
world  will  never  go  to  war  against  itself  again,  the 
Organization  has  nonetheless  continued  to  face  more 
intricate and complex challenges. Over the past seven 
decades,  millions  of  people  worldwide  have  been 
killed,  some  maimed  and  others  displaced,  and  many 
have starved as a result of war and conflicts. Women 
and  children  continue  to  bear  a  disproportionate 
burden  of  those  troubles.  While  we  have  managed  to 
avoid another world war, we have continued to grapple 
with  the  haunting  spectre  of  modern  atrocities  such 
as  the  genocides  in  Rwanda  and  Srebrenica.  We  are 
confronting intra-State armed conflicts in Syria, South 
Sudan  and  Yemen,  protracted  turmoil  in  a  number  of 
parts  of  Africa  and  struggles  for  self-determination 
in  Western  Sahara  and  Palestine.  They  show  that  the 
current  threats  to  international  peace  and  security 
are  more  the  result  of  conflicts  within  States  and  the 
effects that they have across nations that have become 
increasingly  interdependent,  rather than  of traditional 
conflicts between States.
4/10 
18-29593
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.4
Terrorism,  transnational  organized  crime,  illicit 
flows of finance and growing numbers of refugees pose 
significant threats to global order and peace. No longer 
can we ignore the troubles of those in distant parts of the 
world, or fail to address the root causes of conflicts that 
we often imagine are foreign to us. To respond to those 
threats,  we  need  a  United  Nations  that  is  responsive, 
adaptable and also able to deal with challenges that its 
founders  could  not  have  imagined.  It  should  not  rely 
merely on the political interests of a few, as an impasse 
between  the  major  Powers  often  impedes  the  entire 
Organization’s ability to act. Instead, we should draw 
on the strength of the collective in resolving complex 
challenges.  The  United  Nations  can  succeed  only  to 
the degree that we, as global leaders, provide visionary 
leadership  that  transcends  our  ideological  differences 
and narrow national interests.
Through this Peace Summit, the current generation 
of  global  leadership  has  been  given  a  wonderful 
opportunity not only to reflect on peace in the world, 
but  also  to  take  the  measures  necessary  to  end  the 
wars  that  continue  to  take  millions  of  innocent  lives. 
We are called on to act decisively to end the exposure 
of  women  and  children  to  untold  suffering,  including 
displacement,  torture,  rape,  mutilation  and  murder. 
We are called on to ensure that women are afforded a 
special role in peace negotiations, political transitions 
and  in  ensuring  durable  security  for  all.  We  must 
be  unanimous  in  our  support  for  the  work  of  the 
Secretary-General and the Executive Director of UN-
Women  in  ensuring  that  women  take  centre  stage  on 
issues of peace and security and provide leadership in 
peace  operations.  We  welcome  efforts  to  achieve  the 
equal representation of women in leadership positions 
in United Nations peacekeeping missions.
In  our  search  for  peace,  we  dare  not  ignore  the 
continued  existence  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
whose capacity for human devastation is too dreadful 
to  contemplate.  Twenty  years  ago  almost  to  the  day, 
President Mandela addressed the General Assembly for 
the last time. He said,
“We  must  ask  the  question,  which  might  sound 
naive  to  those  who  have  elaborated  sophisticated 
arguments  to  justify  their  refusal  to  eliminate 
these  terrible  and  terrifying  weapons  of  mass 
destruction — why do they need them, anyway?” 
(A/53/PV.7, p.14)
To this day, his question has been met with no satisfactory 
answer. The truth is that there can be no justification 
for the existence of weapons that carry with them the 
potential to extinguish life on this planet. We therefore 
applaud  the  adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  last 
year  of  the  groundbreaking  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition 
of Nuclear Weapons. South Africa will soon deposit its 
instrument  of  ratification  of  that  historic  Treaty.  We 
call  on  all  peace-loving  States  to  ratify  the  Treaty  so 
that it comes into force without any delay.
As we strive for peace, we cannot escape the reality 
that conflict and hostility have their roots in poverty, 
exclusion  and  marginalization.  Unless  we  confront 
the conditions under which the poor of the world live, 
we will not succeed in building a peaceful and stable 
world.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development is also very much an agenda 
for peace. The Sustainable Development Goals entail a 
set of interdependent objectives whose fulfilment would 
be  the  ultimate  act  of  conflict  prevention.  We  must 
ensure that the United Nations — in its form, operation 
and  orientation  —  is  able  to  maintain  international 
peace  and  security,  protect  human  rights  and  achieve 
sustainable development for all.
Today we are gathered as world leaders, representing 
the hopes of billions for a peaceful, prosperous world. 
It  was  the  desire  for  such  a  world  that  prompted  this 
Peace Summit, with a view to taking stock of how the 
United Nations has performed in the pursuit of peace. 
It  provides  a  moment  for  us  as  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  to  recommit  to  achieving  the  social  and 
economic development necessary for the prevention of 
conflict. It is an opportunity to pledge to one another 
and to our peoples our determination to seek peaceful 
solutions to our political differences and to build peace 
in  those  countries  emerging  from  the  destruction  of 
war,  violence  and  the  perpetuation  of  hate.  It  is  our 
deepest hope that this Summit, in the name of one of 
our greatest exemplars of humankind, Nelson Mandela, 
can serve as a new dawn for the United Nations.
We  hope  the  Summit  will  give  expression  to  the 
Secretary-General’s call for a surge in diplomacy. We 
hope  we  will  rediscover  the  strength  of  will  to  save 
successive generations from war and to overcome the 
hatred of our past and the narrow interests that blind us 
to the vision of a common future that is peaceful and 
prosperous. We hope we will prove ourselves worthy as 
the bearers of the legacy of Nelson Mandela.
18-29593
5/10
A/73/PV.4 
24/09/2018
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank  the 
President of South Africa for his statement.
In accordance with decision 72/564 B, I now give 
the floor to His Excellency Mr. Leo Varadkar, Taoiseach 
and Minister of Defence of Ireland.
Mr.  Varadkar  (Ireland):  It  is  my  great  honour 
to  join  the  General  Assembly  today  as  we  adopt  the 
draft  Nelson Mandela political declaration (A/73/L.1). 
It  reminds  us  that  Mandela’s  is  a  living  legacy, 
entrusted to us so we can be torchbearers for peace and 
reconciliation for this and future generations.
Side  by  side  with  our  great  friends  from  South 
Africa, Ireland was privileged to co-facilitate the work 
that  has  led  to  today’s  Political  Declaration.  Together 
with everyone here today, I reaffirm that Ireland will 
continue to uphold the ideals and values of the United 
Nations and work with the international community to 
achieve  the  aims  that  Mandela  himself  worked  for  so 
tirelessly  during  his  lifetime.  In  Mandela’s  story  we 
recognize the struggles and triumphs of one individual 
and the challenges and hope for humankind. His fight 
for freedom and dignity for all — irrespective of race, 
gender,  sexual  orientation,  colour  or  creed  —  spoke 
to  our  vision  of  a  common  humanity  and  proved 
that  the  seemingly  impossible  can  indeed  become 
a  reality.  It  was  reflected  in  South  Africa’s  first 
democratic  Constitution,  which  is  a  template  for  new 
democracies today.
This  year  in  Ireland  we  mark  20  years  of  the 
Good Friday Agreement, which after decades of bitter 
violence  brought  peace  to  Britain  and  Ireland,  closer 
cooperation  between  north  and  south  and  power-
sharing in Northern Ireland — at least most of the time. 
The Northern Ireland peace process was advanced with 
the wisdom and assistance of friends from around the 
world, including President Ramaphosa, and for that we 
will  always  be  grateful.  We  have  witnessed  firsthand 
the  profound  truths  that  Nelson  Mandela  showed 
through his wisdom and through his actions: that violent 
conflict is not inevitable and can be ended; that peace is 
made not with one’s friends but with one’s enemies; that 
reconciliation  is  achieved  by  moving  beyond  the  hurt 
and pain of the past towards truth and forgiveness and, 
perhaps most profoundly of all, that through justice and 
forgiveness we can free the prisoner and free the jailer 
as well.
Twenty-eight  years  ago,  just  months  after  he  was 
released  from  prison,  on  an  occasion  etched  in  my 
memory as a young boy who watched it on television, 
Nelson  Mandela  was  accorded  the  special  honour  of 
being  invited  to  speak  to  the  Irish  Parliament.  There 
he  inspired  us  all  with  his  words  as  he  attacked  the 
arrogance of racism and honoured those who dared to 
cry  freedom.  In  our  native  Irish  language,  we  say  of 
truly remarkable individuals: Ni bheidh a leithéid ann 
arís, which means “We will never see his like again”. I 
can think of no better way to describe the uniqueness of 
Mandela. I believe that his legacy is truly international 
and points to a deeper truth. A voice may be silenced 
by  death,  but  its  message  can  never  be  suppressed.  It 
is heard for all time and rings through the ages, and it 
finds a home in the hearts, minds and values of those 
who follow after.
Inspired by the message of Nelson Mandela again, 
we in this Hall should provide a voice for the oppressed 
around the world and find shared solutions guided by 
shared values, such as our belief in and commitment to 
multilateralism, to the freedom of the individual, free 
enterprise, human rights, democracy and the protection 
of  our  planet.  We  should  look  to  this  declaration  as 
we  face  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century. 
Recognizing all that is being done in the area of gender 
discrimination,  we  must  renew  our  efforts  to  further 
advance gender equality around the world, and we must 
give  young  people  a  greater  say  in  the  decisions  that 
will affect them and the future of our planet.
War and hatred come in many guises, but peace has 
the same face the world over. It is the image of those 
who open their hearts and minds to make the impossible 
possible and build a future worth living for.
The  President  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  I 
Mr. Varadkar for his statement.
thank 
In accordance with resolution 72/243, I now give the 
floor to Ms. Graça Machel, co-founder of The Elders.
Ms. Machel (The Elders): It is my singular honour 
to  address  this  collective  home  of  the  human  family. 
I  would  like  to  thank  President  Espinosa  Garcés  and 
Secretary-General  Guterres  for  calling  this  special 
meeting  to  celebrate  Nelson  Mandela’s  life  and  his 
legacy of peacemaking. I thank the General Assembly 
for this privilege. I stand here not as a diplomat, but as 
a human rights advocate and concerned citizen of the 
world,  so  forgive  me  in  advance  for  the  unrestrained 
manner in which I will share my frank thoughts with 
the Assembly today.
6/10 
18-29593
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.4
the 
Today’s  celebration  of 
legacy  of  Nelson 
Mandela, or Madiba, as he was affectionately known, 
provides  an  appropriate  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the 
very  raison  d’être  of  the  United  Nations.  In  October 
1945,  the  founding  members  of  the  United  Nations 
made this pledge, first and foremost, in the Preamble to 
the Charter of the United Nations:
“We 
the  peoples  of 
the  United  Nations 
determined  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has 
brought untold sorrow to mankind, and to reaffirm 
faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity 
and worth of the human person, in the equal rights 
of men and women and of nations large and small”.
It strikes me with gratifying humility that, at this 
moment  of  reflection,  we  associate  Nelson  Mandela 
as a reference point to help guide us in fulfilling that 
supreme mandate. Indeed, Madiba’s legacy as a freedom 
fighter, peacemaker and statesman speaks to the core 
of  our  greatest  aspirations  for  the  United  Nations 
and  for  humankind.  The  purpose  of  this  celebration 
of  Madiba’s  life  and  his  contributions  to  the  world 
is  twofold  —  to  take  inspiration  from  the  values  he 
embodies and to emulate his unwavering commitment 
to freedom, equality, justice and dignity for all.
Let  me  pause  here  and  bring  to  mind  the  legacy 
of  Kofi  Annan,  my  dear  brother  and  fellow  Elder, 
who also embodied the values that the United Nations 
holds  dear.  His  moral  fortitude  and  commitment  to 
justice should also serve as an inspiration to shape the 
international  community  into  a  more  stable,  peaceful 
and equitable one.
The United Nations finds itself at a moment when it 
would be well served by revisiting and reconnecting to 
the vision of its founders, as well as by taking direction 
from  Madiba’s  servant  leadership  and  courage.  His 
example  of  servant  leadership  reminds  us  that  no 
sacrifice is too great to ensure the respect and protection 
of one’s people. He deeply believed that there is nothing 
more sacred than safeguarding the rights of all human 
beings  —  not  the  preservation  of  ego,  not  partisan 
politics and not geopolitical considerations.
An  expert  in  brinkmanship  and  a  keen  strategist, 
Madiba  spent  nearly  three  decades  of  his  life  as  a 
political prisoner, and many years thereafter negotiating 
the complexities of peacemaking and nation-building. 
We  seek  inspiration  from  his  successful  approach. 
While staying true to his ultimate goal of freedom and 
social  justice,  he  took  the  interests  of  his  adversaries 
into consideration. He silenced his ego and took risks. 
He  gave  value  to  the  principle  of  give-and-take  and 
negotiated in good faith.
The  United  Nations  was  shaped  by  our  collective 
desire to prevent conflict and ensure that never again 
would war engulf nations the world over. Yet more than 
70  years  later,  today’s  newsreels  are  full  of  conflict-
ridden headlines, signalling significant discord within 
our  international  community.  Global  security  has 
deteriorated markedly over recent decades. The number 
of  armed  conflicts  has  increased,  and  the  protracted 
conflicts  that  have  been  ravaging  our  global  family 
for  decades  are  particularly  worrisome  to  me.  Our 
collective  consciousness  must  reject  the  lethargy  that 
has accustomed us to death and violence as if wars were 
legitimate and somehow impossible to terminate. There 
is no  justification  for the loss  of life  and suffering  in 
places such as Syria, Yemen, Palestine, Somalia, South 
Sudan, the Central African Republic and Myanmar, to 
mention just a few. That has been going on far too long.
Thousands  of  our  children,  just  like  our  own 
sons  and  daughters,  have  been  robbed  of  the  joys  of 
childhood. Thousands of women, no different from our 
own sisters and mothers, have been brutalized by rape as 
a weapon of war. Thousands of our brothers and sisters 
have been needlessly maimed or killed. Thousands of 
families similar to our own have been ripped apart and 
left destitute. It is time to say “enough is enough”.
I appeal to the members of the General Assembly 
not  to  let  this  be  just  another  summit  of  statements. 
Bold,  unprecedented  action  must  follow.  As  for  me, 
the  meaning  of  celebrating  Madiba  is  to  work  to  end 
this  senseless  violence  as  a  matter  of  priority  and 
urgency. I encourage the Assembly to interrogate and 
dismantle  what  is  fuelling  these  conflicts  —  ego-
driven decision-makers, rigid political dogmas, greedy 
acquisition of resources and the massive arms industry, 
to name just a few. It is time for every leader here to 
take responsibility — those who are directly involved in 
the atrocities plaguing our world, those who take sides 
and those who sit in silence. As the leaders of our time, 
they have a moral imperative, and the ability, to bring 
to  an  end  the  death  and  destruction  we  witness  on  a 
daily basis. Colombia has proved it can be done. Others 
can follow that example. History will judge those here 
should they stagnate too long in inaction. Humankind 
will hold them accountable should they allow suffering 
to continue on our watch.
18-29593
7/10
A/73/PV.4 
24/09/2018
I  am  speaking  as  a  woman  who  has  experienced 
first-hand the pain and misery of war. In 1996, on behalf 
of  then-Secretary-General  Boutros  Boutros-Ghali,  I 
published  a  report  (see  A/51/306)  on  the  devastating 
impact  of  armed  conflict  on  children.  My  colleagues 
and I embarked on two years of research that took us 
to conflict settings in every corner of the globe. I was 
just  a  mother  then,  horrified  by  stories  of  frightened 
children  and  grief-stricken  mothers  in  refugee  and 
displaced-person  camps.  Today  I  am  a  grandmother, 
still haunted by their eyes and still sitting with a heavy 
heart,  knowing  that  the  fate  of  children  in  conflict 
settings  has  gotten  worse.  The  voice  of  a  Palestinian 
child still whispers to me, asking “When is this is going 
to end?” And I know that that boy, now a young person, 
is still in a Palestinian refugee camp.
We  cannot  rest  until  we  right  these  wrongs.  And 
to  do  so  we  must  work  more  collaboratively  with 
those  beyond  this  Hall.  We  therefore  actively  support 
Secretary-General António Guterres in putting peace at 
the top of his agenda. Peacemaking requires more than 
a political response; it also requires the muscle of the 
private sector, civil-society organizations and citizens 
at the grass roots as well. For example, 25 years ago, 
the  African  institution  ACCORD  was  established  to 
contribute to resolving Africa’s conflicts so as to create 
the conditions necessary for human security, economic 
prosperity and social cohesion. Today, after working on 
almost all of Africa’s protracted conflicts, we know that 
working  for  peace  alone  will  not  deliver  those  goals. 
Peace,  together  with  governance  and  development,  is 
the only approach that can ensure stability. In July of 
this year, therefore, President Cyril Ramaphosa of South 
Africa and ACCORD launched a new initiative, Global 
Peace, to take ACCORD’s experience from Africa and 
the  global  South  and  extend  our  solidarity  across  the 
world.  Global  Peace  will  make  a  modest  contribution 
to  transforming  how  nations  drive  development  and 
stability.  It  will  promote  an  ecosystem  of  innovators, 
influencers, investors and the implementers to generate 
innovative  solutions  to  the  challenges  of  our  time. 
This  civil-society 
the 
efforts  of  Governments  and  multilateral  agencies  and 
strengthen multilateralism.
initiative  will  complement 
When Madiba founded The Elders in 2007, he gave 
us a specific mandate: 
“To  support  courage  where  there  is  fear;  to  force 
agreement  where  there  is  conflict;  and  to  inspire 
hope where there is despair”. 
We Elders spent the past year leading up to Madiba’s 
hundredth  birthday  identifying  and  showcasing  100 
inspirational  civil-society  organizations  of  all  sizes 
and  from  every  part  of  the  world.  Each  of  those  100 
organizations  represents  one  of  100  ideas  for  a  freer, 
fairer world. They work with a commitment to finding 
what unites their communities, and through collective 
efforts  they  are  achieving  peace,  justice,  health  and 
equality in their communities. On behalf of The Elders, 
I have the honour to present to the General Assembly 
an  inspiring  publication  featuring  these  “Sparks  of 
Hope”, which I will hand to President Espinosa Garcés 
and  Secretary-General  Guterres  when  I  conclude 
my  remarks.  This  compendium  highlights  the  moral 
courage  and  leadership  of  change  agents  across  the 
world, and I hope members will take inspiration from 
their work to accelerate social transformation.
In  conclusion,  I  challenge  the  Assembly  with 
Madiba’s words: “It is in your hands to make a better 
world for all who live in it”. It is therefore incumbent 
on us to live up to the cherished Charter of the United 
Nations, which asks us to
“save succeeding generations from the scourge of 
war and untold sorrow to mankind and to reaffirm 
faith in fundamental human rights and the dignity 
and worth of the human person, in the equal rights 
of men and women and of nations large and small”. 
And I quote Madiba again: “It is in your hands”.
The  President:  I  thank  Ms.  Machel  for  her 
statement and for the 100 “Sparks of Hope”.
(spoke in Spanish)
In  accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution 
72/243,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Kumi  Naidoo, 
Secretary General of Amnesty International.
Mr. Naidoo (Amnesty International): We welcome 
the  broad  sentiments  in  the  draft  political  declaration 
that  Governments  have  agreed  on  for  the  Mandela 
Peace  Summit.  But  the  truth  is  that  we  have  heard 
them  before.  These  are  the  words  that  get  repeated 
time and time again without the political will, urgency, 
determination or courage needed to make them a reality 
and to make them really count. But we must make them 
count — not tomorrow, but right now, because we are 
facing  multiple  crises  around  the  world  with  people 
suffering  on  an  unimaginable  scale.  Without  action, 
without strong and principal leadership, I fear for them 
and for all of us.
8/10 
18-29593
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.4
Let  us  remember  that  Madiba  spent  the  vast 
majority  of  his  life  as  a  civil-society  activist.  Yet 
as  we  gather  here  to  honour  him  today,  thousands  of 
activists and human rights defenders around the world 
are  imprisoned  or  have  been  tortured  or  killed.  They 
include trade unionists, people from non-governmental 
organizations, 
religious 
communities, journalists and those from the field of the 
arts  and  culture.  In  far  too  many  countries,  the  civic 
space has been shut down and people deprived of their 
right to participate actively and freely in public life.
social  movements 
and 
The Preamble to the founding Charter of the United 
Nations opens with the words “We the peoples”, not “we 
Member  States”.  That  is  why  we,  the  people,  should 
never  allow  ourselves  to  accept  injustice.  As  Martin 
Luther King once said,
“I never intend to adjust myself to racial segregation 
and discrimination. I never intend to adjust myself 
to religious bigotry. I never intend to adjust myself 
to  economic  conditions  that  will  take  necessities 
from  the  many  to  give  luxuries  to  the  few  when 
millions  of  God’s  children  are  smothering  in  an 
airtight cage of poverty in affluent societies.”
I  appeal  to  the  General  Assembly  today,  with  the 
spirit  of  Madiba  surrounding  us  all,  not  to  adjust  to 
the inhumane way that we have been treating millions 
of  refugees  around  the  world,  not  to  adjust  to  the 
Rohingya population living in an open-air prison under 
a system of apartheid, not to adjust to the Palestinians 
in Gaza living under a relentless military blockade that 
keeps them in poverty and misery, not to adjust to the 
centuries-old subjugation of indigenous peoples, not to 
adjust  to  leaders  who  espouse  xenophobic  and  fascist 
narratives or demean or undermine women. 
Neither  should  we  adjust  to  the  bloodbaths  we 
have  seen  in  Syria,  Yemen,  Iraq,  Afghanistan,  South 
Sudan  and  elsewhere,  especially  when  most  of  the 
people  shedding  the  blood  are  civilians  and  a  large 
proportion  of  them  are  women  and  children.  We 
should not adjust to the systematic exclusion of people 
living  with  disabilities  or  to  the  continuing  struggle 
and  marginalization  of  children  and  young  people 
everywhere,  for  humankind  must  not  judge  itself  by 
the  progress  of  the  most  powerful  but  by  the  welfare 
of the most vulnerable. Indeed, we must take care not 
only of the present generation but those of the future as 
well. We should not adjust to the dismal failure of the 
powerful to protect civilians in conflicts. In particular, 
we  must  not  adjust  to  the  deadlock  that  continues  to 
haunt  the  Security  Council,  whose  five  permanent 
members  too  often  use  their  powers  not  to  prevent 
and stop suffering, but to shield themselves and others 
committing the worst crimes.
We  should  not  adjust  to  the  disgraceful  levels 
of  impunity  we  see,  and  we  should  insist  on  full 
accountability  for  gross  violations  of  human  rights 
and  crimes  against  humanity.  On  this,  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  and  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Rome 
Statute, which gave birth to the International Criminal 
Court, we urge a renewed respect for the painstakingly 
developed conventions and norms of the United Nations. 
We  call  on  nations  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  join 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  particularly  three 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  —  the 
United States, China and Russia.
We should not adjust to the continued inaction on 
averting  catastrophic  climate  change  while  thousands 
are regularly devastated by extreme weather events from 
the Philippines to Puerto Rico, where we saw more than 
3,000 lives lost, making it the biggest natural disaster 
in United States history. Neither, for that matter, should 
we  adjust  to  the  imminent  reality  facing  small  island 
States, whose very existence is under threat. To the one 
leader who still denies climate change, we insist that he 
start putting himself on the right side of history.
To my brothers and sisters I say, the time for bold 
and courageous action is now. I know what my fellow 
activists and advocates are facing, but I implore them 
not  to  give  up.  Let  the  words  of  Madiba  inspire  and 
guide us: “The brave man is not he who does not feel 
afraid, but he who conquers that fear”. And to all our 
political leaders, I want to say that we honour Madiba 
by picking up the mantle, honestly and with integrity, 
of  all  the  struggles  he  waged.  The  draft  political 
declaration  (A/73/L.1)  to  be  adopted  here  today  is  an 
opportunity for renewed commitment in these troubled 
times. I say, let us think of the most powerless people in 
the world, those who will live or die as a consequence 
of our choices — and let us not disappoint them.
The President: I thank Mr. Naidoo for his statement.
(spoke in Spanish)
We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  for  the  opening 
meeting of the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit.
18-29593
9/10
A/73/PV.4 
24/09/2018
The  Assembly  will  now  turn  to  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.1, entitled “Political declaration adopted at the 
Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit”.  In  the  light  of  the 
time constraints and in order to ensure the expeditious 
conduct  of  proceedings,  delegations  wishing  to  make 
explanations  of  position  are  kindly  encouraged  to  do 
so in their statements to be delivered in the debate and/
or to submit them for circulation as official documents.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.1,  entitled  “Political  declaration 
adopted  at  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit”.  May 
I  take  it  that  the  assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/73/L.1?
Draft resolution A/73/L.1 was adopted (resolution 
73/1).
The President (spoke in Spanish): I would like to 
express my sincere thanks to His Excellency Mr. Jerry 
Matjila,  Permanent  Representative  of  South  Africa  to 
the United Nations, and Her Excellency Ms. Geraldine 
Byrne Nason, Permanent Representative of Ireland to 
the United Nations, who ably and patiently conducted 
the  discussions  and  complex  negotiations  in  the 
informal consultations on the resolution 73/1. I am sure 
the members of the Assembly join me in expressing our 
sincere appreciation to them.
The meeting rose at 10.40 a.m.
10/10 
18-29593
