United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
5th plenary meeting
Monday, 24 September 2018, 10.30 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.40 a.m.
Agenda item 66 (continued)
Peacebuilding and sustaining peace
High-level plenary meeting, to be known as the 
Nelson Mandela Peace Summit
The President (spoke in Spanish): Before we begin 
with the list of speakers, I would like to address some 
important  organizational  matters  pertaining  to  the 
conduct of plenary meetings.
I would like to appeal to all speakers to keep their 
statements brief and concise in order to make maximum 
use  of  the  limited  time  we  have  for  this  high-level 
meeting. In order to enable all on the list of speakers 
to be heard, statements in plenary meetings should be 
limited  to  three  minutes  when  speaking  in  a  national 
capacity and five minutes when speaking on behalf of a 
group, as stipulated in resolution 72/243.
As members will recall, in its resolution 72/313, of 
17  September  2018,  the  General  Assembly  called  for 
strict adherence by each speaker to time limits in the 
Assembly, in particular during high-level meetings. To 
assist speakers in managing their time, a light system 
has been installed at the speaker’s rostrum. Participants 
with  longer  statements  are  encouraged  to  read  a 
shorter  version  of  their  text  and  to  submit  their  full-
length statements to the Secretariat for posting on the 
PaperSmart portal.
Also in accordance with resolution 72/313, the “all 
protocol observed” principle is recommended, whereby 
participants  are  encouraged  to  refrain  from  listing 
standard protocol expressions during their statements.
Bearing in mind the time limit, I would like to appeal 
to speakers to deliver their statements at a reasonable 
pace so that interpretation into the six official United 
Nations languages may be properly provided.
I  appeal  for  the  cooperation  of  all  speakers  in 
observing the time limits for statements so that all those 
inscribed will be heard in a timely manner.
Finally,  in  order  to  avoid  disruption  for  the  next 
speaker, I urge all representatives to remain in their seats 
after the delivery of each statement. In that connection, 
I  would  like  to  invite  speakers,  after  delivering  their 
statements, to exit the General Assembly Hall through 
room  GA-200,  located  behind  the  rostrum,  before 
returning to their seats.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the Republic 
of Rwanda.
President  Kagame:  Nelson  Mandela’s  centenary 
presents  us  with  an  ideal  moment  to  reflect  on  what 
the  legacy  of  the  great  African  freedom  fighter  and 
statesman  means  for  us  today.  He  understood  that 
a  politics  of  confrontation  and  division  impedes  a 
nation’s social cohesion and progress. Even though the 
wounds  were  still  fresh,  he  endeavoured  to  show  that 
the suffering that he and countless other South Africans 
had  endured  could  be  redirected  towards  building  a 
more  positive  future  for  his  country.  That  was  not  an 
easy message, but President Mandela was a true leader 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-29599 (E)
*1829599*
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
and  inspiring  communicator.  He  did  what  was  right, 
even when it was not popular.
none of his fellow human beings would be oppressed or 
enslaved by another.
In  Rwanda,  our  tragic  history  has  taught  us  the 
importance  of  unity  and  inclusivity  for  reconciliation 
and nation-building. We work to ensure that all citizens 
have  equal  rights  and  opportunities  and  are  able  to 
participate actively in shaping our country’s direction 
in  meaningful  ways.  That  approach  has  enabled  us 
to  restore  trust  in  public  institutions  and  also  in  one 
another.  Inclusive  and  non-sectarian  politics  is  not 
advantageous 
in  post-conflict 
situations. As the world has seen, nation-building and 
national unity are good things wherever they take place. 
We are fortunate to have Nelson Mandela’s example to 
keep bringing us back to that fundamental truth.
in  Africa  only  or 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Iván 
Duque Márquez, President of the Republic of Colombia.
President Duque Márquez (spoke in Spanish): On 
18 July 100 years ago, South Africa had the honour of 
becoming  the  birthplace  of  an  extraordinary  human 
being. Later, the world had the honour of knowing and 
learning from a great, virtuous, upright and courageous 
leader. Nelson Mandela was an inspirational man who 
transcended  attitudes  and  generations,  because  he 
combined what few can achieve. He was a man, an icon, 
a  prisoner,  a  President,  a  fighter  and  a  peacemaker. 
Nelson Mandela’s leadership was unique.
Today  I  am  here  representing  a  generation  and 
a  country  that  has  found  inspiration  in  Mandela’s 
ideals. In Colombia, we are inspired by a society that 
is  fraternal  and  noble,  without  exclusion  or  hatred. 
Without  the  exclusion  that  racism  represents,  our 
countries can make great transformations. And without 
class  discrimination,  we  can  build  a  nation  with 
freedom and justice, dignity and hope, one that never 
gives up and that desires to build peace through the law, 
in  equality  and  unity,  one  that  understands  very  well 
how sport and culture have the power to unite all races 
and classes under the same flag.
That  resilience,  of  which  Nelson  Mandela  is  a 
symbol  and  which  also  characterizes  Colombia,  has 
helped  us  to  address  violence,  overcome  extreme 
poverty  and  receive  with  open  arms  1  million  of  our 
Venezuelan  brothers  and  sisters,  fleeing  a  terrible 
dictatorship. Today’s Peace Summit is an opportunity 
to  convey  to  new  generations  what  Mandela’s  life 
symbolized.  It  was  a  constant  struggle  to  ensure  that 
The  centenary  of  Nelson  Mandela’s  birth  should 
represent  an  appeal  to  the  world  never  to  forget  the 
infinite capacity for transformation that a leader and a 
people can possess when they want to correct the errors 
of the past and build a future. The legacy of Mandela 
means  being  able  to  rise  above  hatred,  serving  as  an 
inspiration because this leader helped us to understand 
that in spite of our differences, the things that unite us 
are more important.
As Mandela himself said during his trial,
“I  have  cherished  the  ideal  of  a  democratic  and 
free  society  in  which  all  persons  live  together  in 
harmony and with equal opportunities. It is an ideal 
which  I  hope  to  live  for.  But  if  needs  be,  it  is  an 
ideal for which I am prepared to die.”
We  in  Colombia  are  working  hard  to  make  that 
ideal — of a united country that builds peace through 
the law — a reality.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nana  Addo  Dankwa 
Akufo-Addo, President of the Republic of Ghana.
President Akufo-Addo: Once in a while, someone 
comes along who manages to leave an indelible imprint 
on his generation and humankind. Nelson Mandela, the 
man in whose memory this plenary meeting on global 
peace is being held, is clearly one such person. In his 
own words, he dedicated his life to the struggle of the 
African  people  for  their  freedom  and  development, 
and  “cherished  the  ideal  of  a  democratic  and  free 
society in which all persons live together in harmony 
and with equal opportunities”. The implementation of 
that  commitment  not  only  secured  for  him  27  years 
in the apartheid prison of Robben Island, but also his 
undisputed  place  in  the  pantheon  of  the  continent’s 
notables as Africa’s greatest-ever leader.
Nelson  Mandela  came  from  prison  with  probably 
the  most  recognized  name  in  the  world,  and  the  true 
measure of the man was made evident when he helped 
to ensure a peaceful outcome of the negotiations among 
South Africa’s historical antagonists. Indeed, when all 
the experts predicted disaster prior to the negotiations, 
Nelson Mandela somehow managed to avert a civil war. 
He held his nerve and with his calm dignity disarmed 
the  most  determined  of  those  who  wanted  a  fight  to 
the death. After he won the historic elections of 1994, 
2/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
there  was  pressure  on  him  to  give  the  oppressors  of 
old a taste of their own medicine. But he stayed firm, 
helped  to  cement  the  reconciliation  of  post-apartheid 
South Africa and left office after one successful term 
as President.
It falls to us who come after him to make his dream 
of a peaceful world a reality, in which all of us, men and 
women,  young  and  old,  live  in  harmony.  He  acted  on 
the proposition that with a spirit of generosity, modesty, 
humility  and  fellow-feeling,  all  of  us  are  capable  of 
inhabiting this planet in dignity, freedom, justice and 
solidarity.  Let  us  keep  alive  and  thereby  burnish  the 
legacy of Nelson Mandela — Madiba. It is the legacy 
of  a  deep  belief  in  humankind’s  limitless  potential 
for good.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alexander  van  der 
Bellen, Federal President of the Republic of Austria.
President van der Bellen: We have gathered here 
today  to  honour  an  extraordinary  man  who  dedicated 
his entire life to achieving global peace. We pay tribute 
to Nelson Mandela and to the values he defended. The 
fall of apartheid was not only a significant success for 
his  own  country,  South  Africa,  it  was  also  a  political 
milestone  in  the  endeavours  to  grant  equal  rights  to 
people  all  around  the  world.  However,  human  rights 
have once again come under increasing pressure. Our 
common and overarching message must be that human 
rights are not a special interest issue. On the contrary, 
human rights are our rights, and it is our responsibility 
to uphold and defend them.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
has been a major step in our efforts to create peaceful 
and inclusive societies. Austria continues to support its 
partners in and outside of Europe in their sustainable 
social,  economic  and  democratic  development  and 
the  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law.  In  addition, 
Austria  firmly  believes  that  a  world  with  fewer 
weapons,  especially  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
is  a  precondition  for  global  peace.  In  that  regard,  we 
would  like  to  reaffirm  our  strong  commitment  to 
effective multilateralism.
Finally, I would like to thank the Group of African 
States for its initiative to hold this Summit. It affirms 
our  unshakeable  commitment  to  global  peace  and 
respect  for  human  rights,  including  the  rejection  of 
violence,  racism  and  repression.  Nelson  Mandela 
demonstrated that a successful struggle for those goals 
requires patience, courage, new ways of thinking and a 
readiness for reconciliation. Let us all uphold and carry 
on his legacy.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Lenin 
Moreno Garcés, Constitutional President of the Republic 
of Ecuador.
President Moreno Garcés (spoke in Spanish): At 
the outset, I am very grateful to the United Nations for 
its new facilities that allow persons with disabilities to 
address the General Assembly. I hope that they will set 
an example for the rest of the world.
Today,  it  is  an  honour  to  commemorate  here  the 
centenary of the birth of our beloved Nelson Mandela, 
who was undoubtedly one of the greatest men in world 
history. However, I must say that I wish his prophecy did 
not still ring so true: that as long as poverty, injustice 
and inequality persist in our world, none of us can rest. 
We do not let our great people rest, because world peace 
has yet to be achieved.
Beloved  Nelson  Mandela,  you  were,  of  course, 
also  a  man  of  arms,  and  you  knew  very  well  which 
were  the  most  effective  and  far-reaching.  You  always 
said  that  the  best  weapon  is  that  of  sitting  down  and 
talking, because no problem is so acute that it cannot 
be overcome through discussion and negotiation, if all 
parties are willing, instead of using force and violence.
However, we are not heeding your advice, beloved 
Madiba. We have not understood that peace must first 
be born in the hearts of each and every one of us. The 
great  peacemakers  are  upright  and  honest  people,  but 
above  all  they  are  humble,  because  one  of  the  most 
difficult things is not to change society, but to change 
ourselves.  Since  no  power  on  this  Earth  can  destroy 
the  yearning  for  human  dignity,  I  now  believe  that  it 
is  in  that  yearning  that  we  will  find  the  foundation 
and  mortar  for  peacebuilding,  given  that  overcoming 
poverty is not an act of charity but an act of justice, as 
you stated.
I thank you, teacher  of peace, because from you we 
learned that our task is to liberate not the oppressed but 
the oppressors. You believed that it is not generals or 
kings — and I would add rulers to that list — who make 
history, but the masses. You always said, “Do not judge 
me  by  my  successes.  Judge  me  by  how  many  times  I 
fell  and  got  back  up  again”.  Your  compulsion  to  get 
back up, each time more triumphant, was paradoxical 
18-29599
3/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
and surprising, perhaps because you were an important 
testament to the fact that we should not allow fear to get 
in our way. I thank you, great Mandela, for this legacy, 
which we must build on and maintain: a multicultural, 
diverse society in which every man, woman and child 
is  treated  equally  and  a  world  in  which  all  people  of 
all races — I would prefer to speak only of the human 
race — work together in harmony.
That is what will happen and that is what we who 
are committed to building new nations for our children 
promise, because, like you, they are our greatest treasure 
and because they are our future. Those who abuse them 
rend the fabric of our society and weaken our nations, 
because the sun has never set on so glorious a human 
achievement.  Madiba, it is our duty to ensure that the 
day comes when, as you said, freedom will reign.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdel  Fattah  Al  Sisi, 
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
President  Al  Sisi  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  Today, 
it  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to  participate  in  the  Nelson 
Mandela  Peace  Summit,  which  coincides  with  the 
commemoration  by  the  world  and  Africa  of  the 
centennial of the birth of the late African leader, whose 
legacy  embodied  the  aspiration  of  the  African  people 
to  independence,  dignity  and  the  elimination  of  all 
forms  of  discrimination.  Along  with  other  immortal 
symbols  of  Africa,  such  as  Nkrumah,  Abdel  Nasser, 
Sékou  Touré  and  Nyerere,  he  expressed  the  hope  of 
establishing  the  principles  of  equality  and  justice 
among all peoples. Mandela adhered to those principles 
with honesty and dignity while he made great sacrifices 
to  liberate  his  country  from  the  abhorrent  system  of 
apartheid. It is therefore natural for his people to carry 
his legacy forward with unwavering loyalty and for his 
name to symbolize African hope and that of all peoples 
around the world for the enjoyment of freedom, justice 
and equality.
I  congratulate  President  Ramaphosa  on 
the 
convening of this commemorative Summit and on the 
selection of a theme that reaffirms the values of world 
peace  in  all  its  forms,  encourages  us  to  redouble  our 
efforts  to  attain  peace  and  sustainable  development, 
and reasserts the principles of human rights.
In today’s world, we urgently need effective policy 
and operational frameworks to address the root causes 
of conflict, promote good governance, respect human 
rights in all their dimensions, and eradicate poverty and 
epidemics.  We  must  also  empower  women  and  young 
people  with  a  view  to  truly  honouring  and  rising  to 
the  human  aspiration  of  sustainable  development.  We 
must also join hands and sincerely cooperate in order to 
defeat terrorism and fight the scourges of extremism, 
racism, discrimination, sectarianism and intolerance.
From  this  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  underscore 
Egypt’s support for efforts to strengthen the role of the 
United Nations in promoting integrated approaches to 
enhancing the Organization’s effectiveness, efficiency 
and  credibility.  The  aim  is  to  reinforce  its  ability  to 
attain  the  goals  and  purposes  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations in maintaining international peace and 
security,  preserving  the  values  of  tolerance,  mutual 
respect,  and  understanding  others.  Those  are  the 
values that characterize the legacy of the leader Nelson 
Mandela and serve as a shining light for multilateralism.
Today’s meeting is a good opportunity to take stock 
of  and  ascertain  what  is  lacking  in  the  international 
system and what needs to be developed to uphold those 
important values and objectives. Nelson Mandela was 
and remains a symbol for the African continent, which 
is  facing  basic  challenges  embodied  in  the  need  of 
all  our  children  for  a  good  education  that  will  enable 
them  to  face  the  future;  scarcity  of  water  and  food; 
desertification; and weakness in health-care provision 
that may allow diseases and epidemics to prevail in the 
future. Indeed, there is also a shortfall in international 
cooperation  mechanisms  that  has  led  to  the  current 
situation in Africa, which we look forward to changing 
with strong will, perseverance and the courage to take 
hard decisions.
Let  us  move  forward  together  to  achieve  the 
objectives  of  this  historic  Summit  by  recalling  the 
principles  and  values  adopted  by  the  leader  Nelson 
Mandela during his struggle. Let our common goal be 
to offer our peoples a better future in a more peaceful 
and stable world.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Miguel 
Díaz-Canel  Bermúdez,  President  of  the  Councils  of 
State and Ministries of the Republic of Cuba.
President  Díaz-Canel  Bermúdez 
in 
Spanish):  We  are  very  happy  and  encouraged  that 
the  General  Assembly  has  convened  a  peace  summit 
bearing the name of Nelson Mandela.
(spoke 
4/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Less than 30 years ago, the beloved Madiba was a 
political prisoner in an apartheid jail, imprisoned for life 
as a result of his noble struggle for justice and equality 
among all the men and women of South Africa, where 
a  white  minority  subjected  the  black  majority  to  the 
scorn of segregation. We have not forgotten that, during 
the dark years of apartheid and long after being elected 
as President, Mandela and the most brilliant and honest 
African fighters were kept on lists of alleged terrorists.
Cuba  is  honoured  to  recall  that  it  shared  in  his 
struggles on the front line of combat, together with his 
African  brothers  from  Angola  and  Namibia.  We  will 
never  forget  Cuito  Cuanavale.  In  that  regard,  there 
was no greater recognition than the embrace of a free 
Mandela  with  our  historic  leader,  Fidel  Castro,  on 
Cuban territory.
I hope that we pay tribute to Mandela not only as 
the first black President of South Africa and the winner 
of the Nobel Peace Prize, but also as a rebel who was 
forced  to  fight  against  injustice  when  peaceful  paths 
were closed, a political prisoner, a defender of human 
rights and the rights of his people, and a politician who 
changed history. We are pleased that, in remembering 
Mandela,  we  recognize  the  heroic  struggle  of  the 
South African people against the disgraceful apartheid 
regime, led by the African National Congress with the 
support of many leaders and combatants who dedicated 
their lives to the cause of freedom in Africa.
The  First  Secretary  of  our  Party,  Army  General 
Raúl  Castro  Ruz,  described  Mandela  as  a  prophet 
of  unity,  reconciliation  and  peace.  For  his  part,  the 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Cuban  revolution,  Fidel 
Castro Ruz, defined him as an example of an absolutely 
complete  man,  unwaveringly  strong,  courageous, 
heroic, serene, intelligent and capable, which is how the 
Cuban people also remember Nelson Mandela.
We  are  alarmed  by  recent  announcements  of 
increases  in  military  spending,  which  will  send  the 
world  into  a  new  arms  race,  to  the  detriment  of  the 
enormous resources that are needed to build a world of 
peace. There can be no development without peace and 
stability  or  peace  and  stability  without  development. 
There can be no peace and security for people suffering 
from  high  levels  of  poverty,  chronic  hunger  and 
malnutrition, poor health and limited access to drinking 
water, illiteracy, high rates of infant mortality, deaths 
from preventable diseases and low life expectancy.
To achieve a world in which peace and the peaceful 
solution of conflicts prevail, we must address their root 
causes.  The  millions  who  are  excluded  by  the  unfair 
international economic order, the displaced, the hungry 
and those fleeing from war and a lack of opportunity 
to  lands  of  abundance  built  from  the  plundering  of 
our  peoples  are  the  victims  of  a  silent  and  silenced 
segregation.  Much  remains  to  be  done  in  order  to 
make  Mandela’s  dreams  come  true.  The  only  tribute 
worthy  of  his  memory  is  to  foster  the  development 
of  disadvantaged  nations.  We  need  deeds  rather  than 
words;  cooperation,  not  intervention;  and  solidarity, 
not pillage.
Blood  ties  unite  Cuba  and  Africa.  The  cultural 
heritage  of  the  African  continent  in  the  idiosyncratic 
make-up of Cubans is undeniable. The culture and the 
best values of Africa’s peoples have nurtured our own. 
We  are  inspired  by  their  courage,  nobility,  wisdom 
and capacity for resistance. Cuba’s collaboration with 
the  peoples  of  Africa  has  been  maintained  for  more 
than 50 years as a priority of the foreign policy of the 
Cuban revolution.
International  peace  remains  threatened  by  the 
philosophy  of  domination.  That  is  why  we  make 
Mandela’s words our own; we too want to be masters 
of our own destiny. Let us therefore work for the future 
of peace to which our peoples are entitled. Let us truly 
and fully honour the unforgettable Mandela, whom the 
historic leader of the Cuban revolution called an apostle 
of peace.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hage  G.  Geingob, 
President of the Republic of Namibia.
President Geingob: An article by Dr. David Sack 
on  the  website  Psychology  Today,  entitled,  “The  Five 
Traits  of  Extraordinary  Ordinary  People”,  listed  the 
five unique characteristics of the people whom we all 
admire most, who live genuine, authentic and generous 
lives. Those traits are a focus on the things that matter, 
kindness,  a  willingness  to  be  seen  as  imperfect,  an 
ability to connect and, lastly, joyfulness.
The extraordinary ordinary personality who we are 
commemorating today — a man we know affectionately 
as Madiba — is someone who exhibited those unique 
traits  during  his  lifetime.  So  profound  was  his  effect 
on humankind that the impact of his life will resonate 
for centuries to come. Madiba was a man who focused 
on the things that mattered — the freedom and dignity 
18-29599
5/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
of his fellow human beings. He chose to forgo his own 
safety, comfort and dignity and was labelled a terrorist 
and imprisoned for 27 years for the sake of the freedom 
of the oppressed peoples of apartheid South Africa and 
southern Africa.
Madiba was a man of kindness — a kindness that 
was  genuine  and  that  he  transferred  to  the  people  of 
South Africa and the world through the concept of the 
rainbow  nation.  He  believed  that,  through  kindness, 
all human beings could hold hands and live in peace, 
harmony and understanding.
Madiba  was  willing  to  be  seen  as  imperfect.  His 
acceptance  of  imperfection  is  encapsulated  in  the 
famous words, “the greatest glory in living life lies not 
in never falling, but in rising every time we fall”.
Madiba had an ability to connect. Who can forget 
his trip to Orania in 1995 to meet Mrs. Betsie Verwoerd, 
the widow of one of the chief architects of the apartheid 
system, Hendrik Verwoerd?
Mr. Arrocha Ruíz (Panama), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
Finally, Madiba had an innate joyfulness. Despite 
his life of struggle, he never stopped smiling. He never 
stopped  dancing.  Madiba  danced.  He  never  stopped 
living. His joyfulness permeated every facet of South 
African life, giving rise to that famous Madiba magic, 
which was experienced at various sports arenas. Madiba 
once said,
“For to be free is not merely to cast off one’s 
chains  but  to  live  in  a  way  that  respects  and 
enhances the freedom of others”.
As  a  United  Nations  family,  let  us  honour  that 
extraordinary personality by not just seeing freedom as 
the casting off of chains of oppression but by living in 
a way that respects and enhances the freedom of every 
human being on our planet.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. George Manneh Weah, President of the 
Republic of Liberia.
President  Weah:  It  is  an  honour  to  stand  here 
today to pay homage to Africa’s greatest hero, Nelson 
Mandela, on the centenary of his birth. He was a man 
who  fought  to  free  his  people  from  the  shackles  of 
apartheid;  a  man  who  enlightened  the  minds  of  his 
people to give them courage and hope to stand against 
racial  segregation;  a  man  whose  enemies  kept  him  in 
prison doing hard labour for almost three decades and 
did  not  succeed  in  breaking  his  spirit.  When  he  was 
freed and given the mantle of authority, he forgave his 
captors and oppressors and united South Africans of all 
races into a rainbow nation.
Nelson Mandela was a personal hero to many and 
a  role  model.  He  served  as  an  inspirational  reservoir 
of  courage  in  the  face  of  many  adversities.  Nelson 
Mandela taught that peace comes through reconciliation 
because  he  believed  that  a  reconciled  nation  brings 
about development and prosperity for its people. That 
lesson  has  been  emulated  by  many,  including  myself. 
I  followed  his  philosophy  and  accepted  the  role  as  a 
UNICEF Peace Ambassador to help humankind, which 
has allowed me to travel the world in the quest for peace 
and  true  reconciliation.  Nelson  Mandela  inspired  me 
to work tirelessly to help disarm child soldiers during 
Liberia’s civil crisis and bring peace to my country. As 
he once said, “Courageous people do not fear forgiving, 
for the sake of peace”.
We  are  all  very  fortunate  to  have  spent  time  on 
the same planet during his lifetime. All of our lives in 
many ways are better because we have been fortunate 
to know him or of him — Baba Madiba, a reconciler 
and  peacemaker.  Let  us  honour  him  by  promoting 
peace,  because  without  peace  and  reconciliation  our 
world would not be stable.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Edgar Chagwa Lungu, President of the 
Republic of Zambia.
President Lungu: It is with a great sense of honour 
that  Zambia  has  joined  the  rest  of  the  international 
community in showing appreciation for the convening 
of the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, which focuses on 
global peace in honour of the centenary of the birth of 
Nelson “Madiba” Mandela.
Today  I  am  pleased  that  we  are  able  to  honour 
the legacy of a great leader and son of Africa, whose 
contributions  to  global  peace  have  remained  for  the 
world to emulate. The principles and values that Nelson 
Mandela and our founding fathers in Africa’s front-line 
States stood for — those of sacrifice and struggle, human 
rights,  mutual  respect,  tolerance  and  reconciliation 
in  our  relations  —  should  remain  the  bedrock  in  our 
search  for  lasting  peace.  Love,  peace  and  forgiveness 
should continue to be at the core in seeking sustained 
6/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
global peace. Mandela proved to the world that healing 
is possible and that reconciliation remains at the heart 
of human development. The name of Mandela resonates 
with that of the fight for freedom, not only in his native 
South Africa but in all corners of the world.
In the quest for peace and the fight against apartheid, 
Zambia  became  home  to  many  of  South  Africa’s 
freedom fighters and was host to the African National 
Congress  from  1963  to  1994,  with  its  headquarters 
in  Lusaka,  the  capital  city  of  Zambia.  As  one  of  the 
front-line States, Zambia actively contributed to ending 
apartheid and minority rule in South Africa, eventually 
leading  to  the  release  of  Nelson  Mandela.  Today,  his 
legacy  of  peace  deserves  the  commendation  of  the 
entire global community.
Two  weeks  after  his  release  from  27  years  of 
incarceration,  Nelson  Mandela’s  first  visit  outside 
South  Africa  was  to  Zambia.  The  visit  was  in 
recognition  of  the  efforts  and  great  sacrifices  of  the 
people of Zambia in upholding the valued principles of 
peace  and  freedom.  They  are  and  remain  the  virtues, 
including  reconciliation,  that  form  the  foundation  of 
human development. I therefore wish to call upon the 
international community to redouble its efforts to build 
a just, peaceful, prosperous, inclusive and fair world by 
placing human dignity at the centre of all our actions.
Let  me  applaud  the  Assembly  for  designating  the 
period  2019-2028  as  the  Nelson  Mandela  Decade  of 
Peace. There is no doubt that it will provide our global 
village  with  a  great  opportunity  to  advance  human 
rights, freedom and peace for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Emmerson  Dambudzo  Mnangagwa, 
President of the Republic of Zimbabwe.
President  Mnangagwa:  I  wish  to  express  my 
Government’s  gratitude  for  the  adoption  of  resolution 
72/243  in  December  2017,  on  the  holding  of  today’s 
high-level  meeting  focusing  on  world  peace  to  mark 
the  centenary  anniversary  of  Nelson  Mandela’s 
birthday.  Today’s  centenary  celebration  is  indeed  an 
occasion to reflect on his life and legacy. We applaud 
the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  and 
the  United  Nations  for  organizing  various  events 
to  celebrate  and  keep  alive  the  legacy  and  unique 
contributions  of  Nelson  Mandela.  His  sacrifices  and 
tireless commitment to justice and equality, as well as 
his courage, magnanimity and compassion, continue to 
motivate and inspire the world.
As  a  great  visionary,  he  remains  a  beacon  of 
peace,  and  we  cannot  afford  to  let  his  vision  fade.  In 
spite  of  his  long  imprisonment,  Nelson  Mandela  was 
never  a  hostage  of  his  past  by  becoming  retributive. 
Instead, he rose above the challenges and directed his 
efforts towards promoting reconciliation and building 
a  peaceful,  multiracial  and  democratic  South  Africa 
Let us be emboldened by the words of Nelson Mandela, 
who said:
“[D]o  not  look  the  other  way.  Do  not  hesitate. 
Recognize that the world is hungry for action, not 
words. Act with courage and vision.”
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
honouring Nelson Mandela without action to address his 
concerns would be a betrayal of the immense sacrifice 
he  made  in  his  lifetime.  He  once  said,  “sometimes  it 
falls  upon  a  generation  to  be  great.  You  can  be  that 
generation”.  Indeed,  we  can  be  that  great  generation 
by  providing  global  leadership  and  ensuring  that  his 
invaluable  ideals  of  peace,  equality,  human  dignity 
and  justice  are  realized  and  upheld  throughout  the 
entire  world,  for  the  betterment  of  present  and  future 
generations. I wish the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit 
fruitful and successful deliberations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Danny Faure, President of the Republic 
of Seychelles.
President  Faure:  This  year,  a  true  son  of  Africa 
and a giant of history would have celebrated his 100th 
birthday. Today we have come together to commemorate 
the  memory  of  a  man  who  stood  for  social  justice 
and  universal  peace,  while  also  acknowledging  his 
enduring legacy.
When Nelson Mandela was growing up in a small 
village  named  Mvezo  100  years  ago,  there  was  no 
reason to think he would change the course of history. 
But  through  his  sacrifice,  his  leadership  and,  most 
importantly,  his  belief  in  the  human  spirit  and  its 
infinite  capacity  for  good,  he  set  an  example  for  the 
world. It is not enough that we preach the great ideals 
for which he stood if we practise the opposite. We have a 
golden opportunity as leaders to ensure that we govern 
with the philosophies of peace and equitable progress 
he championed.
18-29599
7/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Today,  I  renew  my  commitment  to  living  by  the 
ideals of the late Nelson Mandela and ensuring that his 
message of equality, democracy, dignity and goodness 
lives  on  through  the  people  I  have  been  entrusted  to 
serve.  I  also  believe  that  to  fully  achieve  Madiba’s 
vision  for  the  world,  the  state  of  our  planet  and  only 
home must be protected at all costs. If we fail to take 
responsibility  for  our  actions  and  the  impact  we  are 
having  on  our  environment,  we  run  the  grave  risk  of 
condemning our children to the fate that he struggled 
during his lifetime to abolish.
A  common  thread  unifies  all  our  people  —  a 
longing for peace, prosperity and an equitable future. 
We must work hard to ensure that it becomes a reality. 
Nelson Mandela said that,
“to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, 
but to live in a way that respects and enhances the 
freedom of others”.
We must live and lead by that truism. Only then will we 
have fulfilled his legacy.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Uhuru  Kenyatta,  President  and 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Defence  Forces  of  the 
Republic of Kenya.
President  Kenyatta:  I  am  equally  delighted 
to  participate  in  today’s  historic  Peace  Summit  in 
honour of Nelson Mandela, a unique African icon. In 
March  2009,  I  had  the  unique  fortune  of  meeting  the 
global  icon  and  that  encounter  left  an  indelible  mark 
on my life. Madiba reflected the best in us: humility, 
forgiveness, compassion, selflessness and integrity. He 
gave us a glimpse of what we could become if we set 
our sights on making the world a better place and have 
the courage to move the obstacles that stand in the way.
Madiba  occupies  a  special  place  for  us  in  Africa 
and, indeed, the world. We are proud heirs to his legacy 
and that of other heroes, such as Kwame Nkrumah of 
Ghana,  Léopold  Senghor  of  Senegal,  Mwalimu  Julius 
Nyerere  of  Tanzania,  Mzee  Jomo  Kenyatta  of  Kenya, 
Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia and Sir Seretse Khama of 
Botswana, just to mention a few. Those leaders planted 
the  seeds  of  freedom,  pan-Africanism,  development, 
democracy  and  peaceful  coexistence.  The  greatest 
honour  we  can  bestow  on  Madiba  and  other  African 
heroes  is  to  emulate  them  and  work  determinedly 
towards  a  united,  peaceful  and  prosperous  continent. 
We  should  rededicate  ourselves  to  African  solidarity 
with 
the  shared  values  of  freedom  and  human 
dignity. We should seek home-grown solutions to our 
challenges and pursue amicable negotiated settlements 
to disputes for sustainable peace and political stability, 
which  are  prerequisites  for  meaningful  social  and 
economic development.
Nelson Mandela stands as a beacon of hope for us in 
Kenya as we continue to nurture and consolidate social 
cohesion  and  peaceful  coexistence  among  people  of 
different ethnic groups and races. Madiba continues to 
inspire us to seek regional peace and political stability. 
Over  the  years,  Kenya  has  supported  peace  and 
political stability in Somalia by hosting and facilitating 
negotiations, contributing troops to the African Union 
Mission  in  Somalia,  and  providing  technical  support. 
In addition, Kenya is involved, alongside other member 
countries  of 
the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development, in seeking sustainable solutions in South 
Sudan.  Today,  we  earnestly  hope  that  in  the  spirit 
of  today’s  Peace  Summit,  parties  to  the  revitalized 
Agreement  in  South  Sudan  will  set  their  differences 
aside  and  work  together  in  its  implementation  for  the 
good of the South Sudanese, who have borne the brunt 
of an unnecessary war.
As  I  conclude,  allow  me  to  echo  the  sentiments 
of  previous  speakers  in  supporting  the  adoption  of 
the  Nelson  Mandela  political  declaration  (resolution 
73/1).  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  values  of 
Nelson  Mandela  and  to  the  pursuit  of  the  ideals  that 
define  his  legacy,  including  the  promotion  of  peace, 
reconciliation,  non-discrimination,  and  the  protection 
and promotion of human rights. I welcome in particular 
the recognition of the period 2019-2028 as the Nelson 
Mandela  Decade  of  Peace,  as  a  constant  reminder  to 
all Members to redouble their efforts in the pursuit of 
peace, development and human rights for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency Ms. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović, President of 
the Republic of Croatia.
President  Grabar-Kitarović:  The  great  Nelson 
Mandela said, “Give a child love, laughter and peace”. 
That statement takes me back in time to the early 1990s, 
when  a  teary-eyed  girl  in  a  bright  blue  coat,  literally 
reflecting the bleak ruins of Vukovar and thousands of 
worn-out people driven out from underground shelters, 
became  the  face  of  war  in  Croatia.  Looking  back,  I 
8/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
realize  how  far  we  in  Croatia  have  come.  However, 
as  we  look  around  the  world  today,  100  years  after 
Mandela’s birth and five years after his death, it seems 
as though there have never been so many children living 
without love, in extreme poverty or dying of hunger and 
armed conflict.
The  migrant  and  refugee  crisis  is  one  of  the 
most  pressing  challenges  in  the  world  today.  It 
brings  together  all  of  the  issues  that  we  have  been 
discussing  for  decades  —  armed  conflicts,  poverty, 
humanitarianunger,  climate  change,  terrorism  and 
many  others.  It  is  our  duty  to  strengthen  cooperation 
and  jointly  address  those  issues  through  existing 
mechanisms  and  instruments,  but  also  to  try  to  find 
new, better and viable solutions. That duty is also part 
of Mandela’s legacy.
We  must  spare  no  effort  to  restore  confidence 
in  the  institutions  of  the  United  Nations  and  in  our 
collective security. For the sake of the United Nations 
and  its  effectiveness,  we  should  improve  the  way  we 
reach  collective  decisions,  especially  in  situations 
of  grave  violations  of  human  rights  and  breaches  of 
international  humanitarian  law.  We  should  believe  in 
building  strong  and  resilient  societies,  while  shifting 
the focus from crisis resolution to prevention, political 
dialogue and active engagement. That is also part of the 
great Mandela’s legacy.
Special  attention  must  be  paid  to  the  protection 
and  empowerment  of  women  and  girls  and  their 
equal  participation  and  full  involvement  in  all  social 
structures. Respect for the dignity and rights of every 
single person and the values of diversity and peaceful 
coexistence have no alternative. It is of vital importance 
to  preserve  the  tradition  of  intercultural,  inter-ethnic 
and interreligious dialogue, especially with respect to 
fighting violent extremism.
Let  me  conclude  with  another  quote  from  Nelson 
Mandela —  a  rare  global  moral  authority  and  a  great 
African. “We can change the world and make it a better 
place. It is in our hands to make a difference.” Let us be 
the generation that has the courage to do so.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Maithripala  Sirisena,  President  of  the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
President  Sirisena  (spoke  in  Sinhalese;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Today 
we  are  gathered  here  at  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace 
Summit, the organization and convening of which was 
a commendable endeavour that deserves appreciation, 
especially  from  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Sri Lanka.
Nelson Mandela was a great humanitarian and the 
epitome  of  reconciliation.  He  was  a  great  leader  who 
showed the world the path we must all take. Today, we 
are gathered here to pay tribute to him because there is 
dearth of such leaders in the world. Nelson Mandela set 
a great example for the world with regard to letting go 
of power. He showed the world what should be done by 
those wielding power. When we observe today’s world, 
it is clear that it is taking an entirely different direction. 
Therefore, the world needs to recall the journey taken 
by Nelson Mandela.
In  the  world  in  which  we  live,  it  is  clear  that 
Nelson  Mandela’s  qualities  are  lacking  in  many  of 
today’s  leaders.  Peace  among  nations,  reconciliation 
and  humanitarianism  were  some  of  the  examples  set 
by  Nelson  Mandela.  That  is  why  it  is  very  important 
that world leaders take the time to study the character 
and 
including  his 
humanitarianism, immense love for people and feelings 
about power. He was not power-hungry; he was willing 
to let go of power.
journey  of 
this  great 
leader, 
For more than 27 years he was not in power but he 
had  no  desire  to  hold  on  to  it  once  he  was  elected  as 
the leader of his nation. Therefore, we must pay tribute 
to this leader. I invite all world leaders to emulate the 
journey of the great Nelson Mandela.
President  Lourenço 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  João  Manuel  Gonçalves  Lourenço, 
President of the Republic of Angola.
(spoke 
in  Portuguese; 
English interpretation provided by the delegation): We 
commend  the  initiative  of  the  United  Nations  to  pay 
a  fair  and  well-deserved  tribute  to  Nelson  Mandela, 
an outstanding son of Africa and of the world, whose 
example of dignity, resilience and tolerance remains a 
model of moral strength and an inpiration for millions 
of  people  fighting  for  social  justice  and  the  progress 
of humankind. The courage and political strength with 
which  Nelson  Mandela  faced  the  apartheid  regime 
in  South  Africa  and  resisted  the  sustained  captivity 
imposed  on  him  by  the  racist  regime,  as  well  as  the 
forgiveness he showed to his former jailers, reconciled 
18-29599
9/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
and  united  South  Africa  and  rightly  earned  him 
international  recognition  as  an  outstanding  freedom 
fighter.
Not only did Nelson Mandela fight for the freedom 
of  his  people;  he  also  ensured  the  freedom  of  his 
oppressors. We join others in paying tribute to him on 
the  centenary  of  his  birth  and  recognize  the  common 
fight  of  Angolans  and  South  Africans  against  racial 
segregation in all its forms in favour of a free and fair 
society with equal opportunities. While paying tribute 
to Nelson Mandela, we should not forget the millions of 
anonymous freedom fighters in Angola, Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Zimbabwe,  South  Africa  itself  and  other 
countries  in  southern  African  who  were  inspired  by 
his example and sacrificed their lives to transform the 
region into a safe, peaceful, democratic and free place. 
Long live Nelson Mandela.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mokgweetsi  Eric  Keabetswe  Masisi, 
President of the Republic of Botswana.
President  Masisi:  It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  to 
address  this  gathering,  convened  befittingly  to  pay 
tribute to the world’s venerated Nobel Peace laureate, 
the  late  President  Nelson  Rolihlahla  Mandela.  As  we 
celebrate  the  centennial  of  a  man  who  lived  as  the 
embodiment  of  the  liberation  struggle,  we  should  be 
reminded  of  his  sacrifice  and  the  legacy  of  peace  he 
bequeathed to future generations. Today we bask in the 
very freedom that he fought for with gusto. We can only 
truly honour him by jealously guarding the freedom we 
so greatly enjoy.
My own country, Botswana, as a founding member 
of  the  front-line  States  —  a  coalition  of  countries 
that  sought  to  end  apartheid  and  white-minority  rule 
in  southern  Africa  —  made  a  modest  contribution 
to  the  liberation  struggle.  Botswana  provided  safe 
haven  and  assisted  the  freedom  fighters  in  any  way 
we  could,  sometimes  with  dire  repercussions  from 
the South African apartheid regime. We tactfully and 
skilfully defied the ultimatums issued to us, as we fully 
understood  that  none  of  us  could  be  truly  free  when 
our brothers and sisters next door remained under the 
shackles of oppressive regimes. We contributed to the 
armed  struggle  without  bearing  arms  ourselves.  We 
joined  in  the  great  jubilation  following  the  release  of 
Nelson Mandela in 1990 and equally in 1994, when he 
was inaugurated as President of a free South Africa. We 
remain  humbled  that  Botswana  was  the  first  country 
that  Nelson  Mandela  visited  in  1962,  in  his  quest  for 
international  support  for  the  liberation  struggle,  and 
again upon his release from prison in 1990.
I  am  confident  that  if  Mandela  were  here  today 
he  would  without  reservation  endorse  our  mantra  of 
leaving no one behind. Let us therefore leave here with 
these words of Rolihlahla himself:
“No one is born hating another person because 
of the colour of his skin, or his background, or his 
religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can 
learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love 
comes  more  naturally  to  the  human  heart  than 
its opposite.”
In conclusion, Botswana fully endorses the Mandela 
Peace  Summit  political  declaration  (resolution  73/1). 
It  is  an  honour  befitting  an  exceptionally  great  man 
and one of the greatest leaders of our time. He lived a 
purpose-driven  life  that  has  touched  and  enriched  us 
all, directly or indirectly. Let us do good by him for we 
are all better off for having been touched by him.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Adama  Barrow,  President  of  the 
Republic of The Gambia.
President  Barrow:  It  is  with  much  esteem  that  I 
wish to pay tribute to Madiba Nelson Mandela on the 
centenary  of  his  birth  and  underscore  the  importance 
of  today’s  Peace  Summit,  organized  to  recognize  and 
honour  the  enduring  legacy  of  a  very  special  world 
citizen — a man of peace and compassion and a strong 
defender of social justice and equality.
The  whole  world  has  noted  with  admiration  that, 
in  spite  of  the  unique  situation  in  his  homeland,  his 
lifelong struggle was not solely about liberating South 
Africa  from  injustice  and  oppression;  rather,  it  was 
about  making  the  entire  world  a  better  place  for  all. 
That  made  Nelson  Mandela  a  noble,  global  citizen 
with a global vision for humankind. As we devote this 
Peace Summit to celebrating the centenary of his birth, 
I submit that we should reflect on some of the lessons 
from his life for the betterment of our world.
Today,  racism,  the  dislike  of  foreigners,  modern-
day  slavery  and  intolerance  are  as  rife  across  the 
world as never before. It is a paradox that the evils that 
Mandela  struggled  against  decades  ago  persist,  and 
in fact pose a threat to his dream of a better world. It 
10/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
is wise and fitting, therefore, that world leaders draw 
from  his  wisdom,  strength  and  resolve  to  stamp  out 
such  vices  and  transform  the  world  into  a  safer  and 
better place for all.
When  Nelson  Mandela  devoted  his  life  to  truth, 
national  reconciliation  and  healing  in  post-apartheid 
South  Africa,  he  was  living  what  he  believed  in. 
Mandela  believed  in  dialogue  and  reconciliation  as 
necessary  elements  for  brokering,  promoting  and 
maintaining  peace.  That  makes  it  necessary  for  all 
leaders to draw inspiration from his statesmanship, to 
be  genuine  in  word  and  in  deed,  and  to  work  closely 
to  stop  all  conflicts  from  developing  and  raging  on. 
That is particularly relevant to Africa, where conflicts 
continue  to  erupt.  The  world  at  large,  and  Africa  in 
particular, does not only have a distinguished statesman 
to  emulate  in  Madiba,  but  also  a  mission  to  fulfil. 
Mandela left behind the unfinished mission of attaining 
global peace and progress.
As  his  strategy,  Nelson  Mandela  devoted  his  life 
to preventive diplomacy and the peaceful resolution of 
conflicts, and he intervened at critical moments to end 
conflicts and discord across Africa and beyond. He won 
many  hearts  by  continuing  that  mediating  role  as  an 
elder statesman, even after he left office as President. 
In that light, I call on the United Nations, the African 
Union  and  all  regional  organizations  to  promote  and 
invest  in  preventive  diplomacy,  and  to  participate 
actively in efforts for mediation and conflict resolution.
Mandela’s  exemplary  leadership  qualities  will 
remain  a  source  of  inspiration  for  posterity.  His 
enduring  legacy  is  his  struggle  to  make  the  world  a 
better place for all. Let us honour that legacy today with 
the pledge that, as we leave this hallowed Hall, we will 
rededicate our lives to making the world a better place 
for  all.  I  would  like  to  end  with  a  timeless  quotation 
from a landmark statement by Mandela to the General 
Assembly in 1994. He said,
to 
“The  millions  across  our  globe  who  stand 
expectant  at  the  gates  of  hope  look 
this 
Organization to bring them peace, to bring them life, 
to bring them a life worth living.” (A/49/PV.14, p. 10)
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran.
President  Rouhani  (spoke 
in  Farsi;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  offer  prayers  for  the  peaceful 
rest of the martyred souls who were killed on Saturday 
during  the  cowardly  terrorist  attacks  in  the  city  of 
Ahvaz and declare the ever more resolute stance of my 
nation in the fight against terrorism in all its forms.
Today’s commemoration by the General Assembly 
of  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  Nelson  Mandela  is  a 
praiseworthy  message  of  support  for  global  peace. 
Nelson  Mandela’s  long  and  formidable  journey  to 
freedom  —  from  his  birth  and  childhood  in  a  small 
village to his joining the anti-racism movement, which 
resulted in long years of imprisonment and his ultimate 
restoration  to  freedom  and  rise  to  presidency  —  are 
distinctive and unique in contemporary history.
Mandela was a close and loyal friend of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran in the years prior to the victory of the 
Islamic revolution. The royal regime in Iran at the time 
had  established  very  strong  relations  with  the  Zionist 
entity and the apartheid regime, which were among the 
closest allies of the United States of America. During 
those  years,  Iran  was  the  main  supplier  of  energy  to 
both  regimes.  However,  following  the  victory  of  the 
Islamic revolution and inspired by the will of its people 
to support the South African liberation movement, the 
Iranian  Government  severed  all  relations  with  both 
the  Zionist  and  the  apartheid  regimes.  Following  the 
collapse of the apartheid regime and the establishment 
of democracy in South Africa, relations between Iran 
and  South  Africa  entered  a  new  phase  that  continues 
to develop.
The  suffering  endured  through  hard  times  of 
struggle  did  not  compel  Mandela  to  abandon  his 
methods,  which  were  based  on  the  pursuit  of  peace 
and accord. The way Mandela treated his enemies and 
opponents after his release from prison was so merciful 
that he sowed the seeds of amity and compassion in their 
hearts. It is a historical reality that great statesmen tend 
to build bridges rather than walls. While racism, racial 
discrimination and xenophobia make it easier to build 
walls instead of bridges between nations, it is dialogue, 
tolerance and peaceful coexistence that constitute the 
building blocks to overcome differences and divisions.
I  strongly  believe  that  Nelson  Mandela  was  one 
of  the  greatest  men  in  contemporary  history  who 
considered  the  establishment  of  peace  and  friendship 
as an absolute necessity rather than a mere expediency. 
18-29599
11/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Over  the  past  decades,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
has spoken in the Assembly to inspire such initiatives 
as  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  a  world  against 
violence  and  extremism,  pursuant 
to 
strengthen  multilateralism  and  develop  international 
peace and cooperation. Iran remains firm and resolute 
in that intention and warmly greets all pro-peace and 
pro-tolerance leaders.
to  efforts 
A  remedy  for  racism,  xenophobia,  violence  and 
hatred must be sought through dialogue, tolerance and 
democracy. That is the same path that Mandela bravely 
forged  for  real  and  genuine  statesmen.  The  name  and 
memory of that great man shall live on eternally. May 
his soul rest in peace.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr. Jorge Carlos De Almeida Fonseca, President of the 
Republic of Cabo Verde.
President Fonseca (spoke in Portuguese; English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Along 
with  freedom,  peace  and  the  stability  that  it  enables 
and  progress  that  it  promotes  is  undoubtedly  the 
greatest  public  asset  for  humankind  and  interaction 
among  nations.  Nelson  Mandela,  the  great  symbol  of 
peace,  naturally  inspires  and  guides  us  as  States  and 
nations  in  our  reflection,  action  and  responsibility  to 
do  everything  possible  so  that  the  world  may  achieve 
global peace.
to 
lament 
Unfortunately,  even  in  this  first  quarter  of  the 
twenty-first  century,  we  continue 
the 
existence and proliferation of new conflicts, resulting in 
more suffering and destruction of life. In this seventieth 
year since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights,  many  grey  areas  persist  and  continue 
to blemish the face of human dignity. Three years after 
adopting  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  for  our 
people and our planet, women and men face the risk of 
being left behind if we do not find solutions to finance 
the achievement of the Goals established for 2030.
Fortunately,  it  is  not  all  doom  and  gloom  if 
we  turn  to  examples  that  point  us  in  the  right 
direction  —  examples  where  conflicts  have  ended  or 
been  avoided,  human  rights  have  been  promoted  and 
poverty has been reduced. Those examples support the 
vision  of  the  Secretary-General,  whom  I  congratulate 
for establishing a mutual relationship of cause and effect 
between sustaining peace and sustainable development. 
Let  us  follow  examples  where  political  dialogue  has 
prevented  the  outbreak  of  conflict  and  development 
has enhanced the possibilities for peace. Finally, let us 
follow the examples set by Nelson Mandela’s actions of 
political struggle, as well as tolerance and advocacy for 
the ideals of justice.
For  Cabo  Verde,  in  its  struggle  for  emancipation 
from colonialism, Nelson Mandela’s example was more 
than a point of reference; it was an anchor. The peace 
we  have  preserved  since  independence  has  been  our 
greatest achievement. It has allowed us to progressively 
restore  a  democratic  rule  of  law that  respects  and 
protects fundamental rights and freedoms. We believe 
that the example of Cabo Verde, albeit small, is still a 
powerful example of our intrinsic strength. Just as we 
have relied on international solidarity, our contribution 
to a world with more peace and development lies in the 
modest contribution of our example and in working in 
solidarity with others. May we honour the memory of 
Nelson Mandela. May we have peace and development 
throughout the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Marcelo  Rebelo  de  Sousa,  President  of  the 
Portuguese Republic.
President Rebelo de Sousa (spoke in Portuguese; 
English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): 
In  1993,  Madiba  visited  Portugal.  He  had  just  won 
his  freedom,  and  soon  afterwards  he  would  be  freely 
elected  as  President  of  South  Africa.  In  Portugal,  he 
was  greeted  enthusiastically, as  people embraced  his 
testimony  of the  victory  over  oppression.  Portugal 
had  recently  triumphed  over  its  own  oppression  and 
had  ended  its  colonial  rule  following  the  Carnation 
Revolution.  Nelson  Mandela  saluted  that  revolution, 
stating  that  it  was  also  an  inspiration  for  people  that 
remained predominantly repressed.
At  the  same  time,  he  spoke  to  more  than  half  a 
million  Portuguese  of  the  consolidation,  peace  and 
integration of the future South Africa. That was Nelson 
Mandela  in  all  his  courage,  in  his  humanity,  in  his 
intelligence, in the simplicity of his compassion, in his 
greatness of soul and in his long road to freedom. It was 
that inspiration that prevailed in resolving crises such 
as that in Timor-Leste.
He showed the world that it is always worth trying 
and  that  nothing  is  impossible;  that  in  our  personal 
battles,  we  are  capable  of  conquering  fear  with  hope 
and  can  overcome  hatred  with  love  and  forgiveness. 
12/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
That  is  why  Mandela’s  legacy must  be  supported  and 
why Portugal supports the Nelson Mandela Decade of 
Peace  2019-2028.  I  salute  those  awarded  the  United 
Nations  Nelson  Rolihlahla  Mandela  Prize:  the  former 
President  of  Portugal,  Jorge  Sampaio,  and  Dr.  Helena 
Ndume of Namibia, for their work on youth, the future 
and education, particularly in critical areas.
The  legacy  of  Mandela,  aligned  with  the  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Universal  Declaration 
of Human Rights, leads us to believe that we can and 
must invest in the future, not only through declarations, 
which  are  fundamental,  and  not  only  through  words, 
but through hard work and in such a way that the world 
itself  may  become  a  better  place  —  a  peaceful  place 
where no one is left behind. Nelson Mandela was not 
only  an  exceptional  man,  he  was  clearly  one  of  the 
greatest of us all.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  how 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Carlos 
Varela Rodríguez, President of the Republic of Panama.
President  Varela  Rodríguez  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
In commemorating the centenary of the birth of Nelson 
Mandela, we must speak of his legacy, which is nothing 
less than a commitment to overcoming social inequality 
and racial discrimination at the global level. We must 
recognize his dedication to the service of humankind, 
his  humanitarian  vocation  and  his  tireless  efforts  to 
promote  and  protect  human  rights,  reconciliation, 
solidarity  and  democracy.  He  was  a  promoter  of  the 
culture of peace, to which he devoted his life.
Mandela  continues  to  be  a  source  of  inspiration 
and  an  example  of  courage  and  compassion  for  all, 
embodying  the  values    and  essence  that  should  guide 
the  Organization.  As  he  once  stated,  our  greatest 
weapon, which the enemy can never resist, is peace. As 
a multi-ethnic and multicultural country that respects 
diversity and tolerance, Panama staunchly believes that 
countries should gear their capacities towards solving 
the problems that life brings, rather than those that we 
create for ourselves.
At  the  current  global  juncture,  in  which  war  and 
conflicts are the main causes of mass migrations — to the 
grief and pain of which Panama has borne witness — it 
is imperative to champion and strengthen the principles 
of  non-violence.  Having  partnered  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  my  country  today 
renews  its  commitment  to  national,  regional  and 
global actions for the promotion of peace, as we firmly 
believe  that  they  are  essential  to  achieving  the  other 
development goals.
Likewise, we recognize the role that young people 
can and must play in the prevention of conflicts, violence 
and  even  in  the  consolidation  of  peace  processes,  for 
which  we  note  the  value  and  obligation  of  paving  the 
way to promote their inclusion and active participation. 
In  welcoming  the  Nelson  Mandela  Decade  of  Peace 
2019-2028, Panama renews its commitment to actively 
and  constructively  contribute  to  the  global  peace 
agenda  and  to  maximize  the  scope  of  our  collective 
efforts  as  an  essential  tool  for  a  more  peaceful  and 
prosperous world.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  how 
hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Tommy Esang 
Remengesau Jr., President of the Republic of Palau.
President  Remengesau:  Today,  we  honour  the 
legacy  of  a  great  leader  and  great  humanitarian, 
Mr.  Nelson  Mandela,  as  we  carry  on  his  work  to 
promote peace, eliminate the weapons of war and repair 
the damage of colonial legacies through reconciliation 
and racial and gender equality. Palau is still grappling 
with  its  own  history  of  being  colonized  by  several 
major  Powers.  Our  matrilineal  system  of  governance 
had served us well, with our people living sustainably 
for  thousands  of  years.  Land  and  resources  were 
managed  through  clan-  and  village-based  systems 
without the need for private property. Cooperative work 
arrangements were the norm.
Foreign Powers attempted to impose their modern 
concepts  of  order  and  commerce,  which  forced  us  to 
integrate  traditional  systems  into  an  uneasy  hybrid. 
We  have  seen  first-hand  the  turmoil  of  the  world’s 
imperial  legacies.  The  forced  transition  ignited  bitter 
power  struggles  that  sometimes  erupted  into  violence 
previously unseen in our country. Those new systems, 
initially  understood  by  few  Palauans,  left  us  open  to 
exploitation  by  those  with  the  knowledge  and  the 
money.  Palauans  are  very  adaptive  people,  however, 
and so we have done our best to navigate this difficult 
period of our history without sacrificing the values that 
make our islands such a special place. The protection 
of our local environment remains a guiding principle, 
despite  the  pressures  of  a  global  economy  that  would 
monetize our natural spaces for short-term gain.
Mr. Gertze (Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
18-29599
13/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
the  environment,  human  health, 
The Pacific region also has a painful history with 
weapons  of  war.  More  than  2,000  nuclear  tests  have 
touched  peoples  and  communities  in  many  regions, 
including in the Pacific. Nuclear tests have negatively 
impacted 
food 
security and economic development. Weapons of mass 
destruction have no place in this world, and we urge the 
achievement of the complete, verifiable and irreversible 
dismantling  of  such  weapons  and  ballistic  missiles  of 
all ranges. We remain committed to the need to ensure 
that nuclear weapons are never used again.
The greatest tribute we can pay to the great Madiba 
is to carry on his legacy with the same single-minded 
purpose that defined his life, first as a revolutionary in 
his own country and then as a revered global statesman. 
“May your choices reflect your hopes, not your fears”, 
as  he  once  said.  That  should  be  our  mantra  as  we  all 
strive to follow his example.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ilir  Meta, 
President of the Republic of Albania.
President  Meta:  I  would  like  to  join  previous 
speakers  in  welcoming  the  adoption  of  the  political 
declaration  (resolution  73/1).  I  also  congratulate  the 
organizers and co-facilitators for convening the Nelson 
Mandela Peace Summit and reminding us of the image 
of  the  man  who  inspired  the  whole  world  with  his 
commitment to peace and reconciliation, as well as his 
dedication  and  persistence  in  fighting  and  protecting 
human rights.
In recognizing the period 2019-2028 as the Nelson 
Mandela  Decade  of  Peace,  we  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations commit ourselves to greater joint efforts 
and  collectively  hold  ourselves  accountable  to  the 
values  and  principles  of  that  declaration.  In  Albania, 
we have had our own Mandelas who, for decades during 
the  communist  regime,  were  cruelly  persecuted  and 
deprived of their freedom and liberty because of their 
ideas and beliefs. However, they survived to tell us and 
encourage us to be more tolerant and respectful of each 
other’s faith, beliefs and ethnicity. We should act and 
fight together for those values.
As  we  speak,  there  are  many  violent  conflicts 
around  the  world,  great  potential  for  proxy  warfare 
that must be prevented, and humanitarian crises to be 
confronted. There are many violations of human rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms,  and  our  goal  for  global 
peace  is  yet  to  be  achieved.  In  all  those  dimensions 
of  volatility,  there  is  a  legacy  of  people  who  have 
been  fighting  for  peace  and  of  nations  fighting  for  a 
peaceful future.
Today,  we  seek  new  ways  to  better  promote 
sustaining peace and make the best use of prevention 
with a long-term perspective. In that respect, Albania 
considers  that  we  need  a  whole-of-society  approach, 
backed by strong institutions and the rule of law, human 
security, inclusive development and the full enjoyment 
of  human  rights  for  all.  On  the  eve  of  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  I  would  like  to  highlight  that  human  rights 
are  a  critical  foundation  for  peace  and  that  resilience 
is anchored in the synergies between fulfilling human 
rights and the peaceful coexistence of societies.
Given  that  human  rights  are  universal,  they 
constitute  the  backbone  of  our  societies  in  building 
peace  and  guaranteeing  security  and  stability.  The 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  its  goal  of  fostering  peaceful,  just 
and inclusive societies leads us towards the promotion 
of prevention as  a  step  towards  the  culture  of  peace 
and  ensuring  peaceful  coexistence  between  nations, 
societies, communities and individuals.
The  adoption  of  the  Secretary-General’s  reforms 
on  peace  and  security,  which  Albania  supports,  is 
a  new  approach  to  responding  efficiently  to  fragile 
nations  and  vulnerable  societies,  preventing  conflicts 
and building a more durable and just peace. I believe 
that  fostering  political  dialogue  and  strengthening 
multilateralism are the best ways to promote rule-based 
global  societies  based  on  the  values  of  human  rights 
and respect for international law. To deny people their 
human  rights  is  to  challenge  their  very  humanity,  as 
Nelson Mandela taught us.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Borut  Pahor, 
President of the Republic of Slovenia.
President  Pahor:  Nelson  Mandela  once  said: 
“Negotiation  and  discussion  are  the  greatest  weapons 
we have for promoting peace”. There is no better place 
to do that than the United Nations. We certainly have 
all the necessary tools, as set out in the Charter of the 
United Nations. The question is, however: Do we also 
have the political will?
The United Nations was established to save future 
generations from the tragedy of war by binding us in a 
14/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
rules-based order, with the United Nations Charter at its 
core. For the system to work, every Member State must 
abide by and defend the rules-based order prescribed by 
the Charter. That is not just a matter of political will; it 
is an actual legal obligation. I would now like to focus 
on four brief messages.
First,  without  respect  for  human  rights,  there 
can  be  no  peace  and  security,  nor  can  there  be 
development.  Violations  and  abuses  of  human  rights 
continue  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  Secondly, we 
need  to  think  and  rethink  our  approach  to  peace. 
First  and  foremost,  we  need  to  put  more  emphasis  on 
preventing  and  addressing  the  root  causes  of  conflict 
and instability. For that, Slovenia strongly supports the 
Secretary-General’s efforts to reorient the international 
community’s thinking on crisis and conflict prevention. 
In  that  context,  mediation  is  a  very  important  tool. 
Although every mediation situation is unique, the use 
of that instrument generates hope and the possibility of 
peaceful solutions to conflicts.
The  third  message  is accountability  and  the  final 
message,  which  is  very  important,  is  reconciliation. 
I  think  that  is  the  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela.  There 
are  many  people  who  are  capable  of  revenge,  but  not 
many who can forgive. Nothing is more inspiring than 
the  power  of  forgiveness.  After  all,  I  think  Mandela 
gives us hope that even the impossible is possible. The 
essential point of his legacy is that important issue of 
reconciliation. Long live Madiba.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim  Boubacar 
Keita, President of the Republic of Mali.
President Keita (spoke in French): At the outset, I 
welcome the initiative of convening the Nelson Mandela 
Peace Summit to celebrate the life of an exceptional man 
that is full of lessons for current and future generations. 
I am deeply moved by the wealth of testimony for the 
most illustrious of political prisoners of the twentieth 
century. The late President Madiba spent 27 consecutive 
years of his life in prison as a class D prisoner — the 
lowest class — from his registration in 1964 as prisoner 
number 466/64 at Robben Island prison.
One  needs  to  have  visited  Robben  Island  —  to 
have been in the prison cell where Madiba spent those 
27  years  and  seen  the  tiny  bed  on  which  he  had  to 
squeeze his substantial body for 27 years. One can only 
imagine  the  damage  that  inflicted  on  his  knees  and 
legs.  We  witnessed  his  journey  of  shame;  we  saw  his 
suffering; we saw how our brother was dehumanized. 
And yet, it made him even stronger. Why did Madiba 
make  that  sacrifice? It  was  for  the  noble  cause  of  the 
triumph of freedom, peace, equality, justice, solidarity 
and  tolerance.  Upon  his  release,  Nelson  Mandela 
was  able  to  give  all  of  humankind  a  great  lesson  in 
forgiveness, reconciliation and unity by launching the 
concept of the rainbow nation in South Africa.
I still remember that, when he was elected President 
of  his  country  in  the  post-apartheid  era,  President 
Mandela made an appeal at his inauguration to the South 
African people for unity of action: “None of us acting 
alone can achieve success”. That call remains relevant 
today  if  we  want  to  promote  world  peace,  respect  for 
human rights and inclusive development.
For  its  part,  Mali  supported  the  legitimate  fight 
of  Nelson  Mandela.  In  April  1962,  Madiba  led  a 
delegation  of  the  African  National  Congress  to  Mali 
and approached Modibo Keita, requesting the support 
of our people in the struggle against apartheid. When 
Oliver  Tambo  described  the  purpose  of  their  visit, 
Modibo replied:
“If you, our brothers of Azania, had not risen to 
fight back against the inhuman conditions that have 
been imposed on you, I, Modibo Keita, would have 
found you unworthy of Chaka.”
I  was  Prime  Minister  of  Mali  when  Madiba
returned  to  our  country  at  the  invitation  of  President 
Alpha  Oumar  Konaré,  and  we  welcomed  him  in  a 
way that was worthy of his struggle and status, but he 
demonstrated great modesty and care for others during 
his visit. For me, during the two days that I was in his 
company, I was struck by his humility and the greatness 
of his soul. Today, I am here on behalf of my country to 
pay a deserved tribute to him, not only out of routine, 
but out of a duty of the heart, a duty of dignity, and a 
duty of gratitude to one of the most deserving Africans 
of this and the previous century.
Mali  fully  endorses 
the  political  declaration 
(resolution 73/1) adopted at this Summit. I conclude by 
paying a warm tribute to the life and work of the great 
Nobel Peace Prize winner. May his example continue 
to inspire us to build and consolidate peace throughout 
the world.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro 
18-29599
15/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic of 
Equatorial Guinea.
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  We  are  here  today  to  remember  and 
commemorate  the  personal  character  and  legacy  of 
that  illustrious  son  of  Africa,  Nelson  Mandela,  as  we 
celebrate  the  centenary  of  his  birth.  The  greatness  of 
his character is highlighted by the fact that, a century 
after his birth, his example, his teachings and his life 
testimony  remain  relevant  in  a  world  that  continues 
to  suffer  injustices,  wars,  conflicts,  discrimination, 
jealousy and crimes of every kind against humanity.
Recalling  Mandela’s  personal 
characteristics 
should lead us to reflect deeply on where we are taking 
the world and what legacy we will leave our children. 
Mandela’s teachings are valid not only for us Africans. 
Rather, they should serve as an inspiration and example 
for all human beings who strive to make this world a 
better place to live.
His  vision  is  a  guide  to  overcoming  the  many 
obstacles and limitations that some humans impose on 
others, as was the case in the apartheid regime of South 
Africa  and  in  global  colonialism.  Indeed,  Mandela 
represents an example and hope for peoples that are still 
struggling to achieve equality and integration. Despite 
having  been  unjustly  deprived  of  his  liberty  for  27 
years, he was capable of overcoming his imprisonment 
to come to live with and forgive his tormentors.
Mandela’s  thought  has  been  incorporated  by  the 
Organization in order to build a new world of human 
society.  As  former  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
said in July 2009,
“Nelson  Mandela  is  the  living  incarnation  of  the 
values that the United Nations represents”.
We in Equatorial Guinea, we have drawn inspiration 
from  the  Mandela  legacy  in  many  of  the  actions  we 
have  undertaken  to  secure  and  maintain  harmonious 
coexistence  among  the  people  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
and  to  achieve  the  economic  development  and  well-
being of our country. It is timely that we have gathered 
here  at  the  beginning  of  the  general  debate  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session in order 
to  celebrate  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit.  We 
hope that the spirit of Mandela will guide our thoughts 
and  actions  in  order  to  make  our  Organization  and 
the entire world a place that this worthy son of Africa 
would have dreamed of. We hope that this session will 
enable  us  to  embark  upon  a  new  era  in  international 
relations  and  coexistence  among  the  peoples  imbued 
with Mandela’s spirit.
We subscribe to the political declaration adopted at 
the opening of the Peace Summit (resolution 73/1).
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Azali 
Assoumani, President of the Union of Comoros.
President Assoumani (spoke in French): A few days 
after the moving tribute to the late Secretary-General 
Kofi  Annan,  the  United  Nations  is  commemorating 
the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela, a son of 
Africa who has left humankind an exceptional legacy. 
Each  of  those  persons,  in  his  own  way  and  on  his 
own  journey,  is  celebrated  by  us  for  several  reasons, 
particularly for their unique contribution to all nations 
and people working for the maintenance of peace. This 
Peace  Summit  in  honour  of  the  late  Nelson  Mandela, 
pursuant to resolution 72/243, of 22 December 2017, is a 
worthy tribute to a man who sacrificed a quarter of his 
long life to the fight for the emancipation of his people, 
and of Africa in general, and against colonialism and 
imperialism through his categorical rejection of racism 
and its institutionalized form — apartheid.
That fight, however, had an impact far beyond the 
African  continent.  He  was  a  charismatic  leader  who 
was ready to sacrifice his life to that noble cause. He 
was  as  firmly  opposed  to  white  domination,  a  legacy 
of  the  slave  mentality,  as  he  was  to  the  prospect  of 
black  domination,  which  would  have  been  vindictive. 
In  that  context,  after  having  lived  through  South 
Africa’s attempt to deny a people’s humanity through 
segregation, Mandela embodied what Albert Einstein, 
speaking of Gandhi, which was that  
“generations  to  come  ...  will  scarcely  believe 
that  such  a  one  as  this  walked  the  Earth  in  flesh 
and blood.”
Considering  the  plight  of  powerless  minorities 
worldwide and the persistence of the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict, among so many other factors that fuel threats 
to  global  peace,  paying  tribute  to  Mandela  is  also 
needed, and perhaps above all, in order to perpetuate 
the memory of a man who, after having been subjected 
to the worst hardships and frustrations and condemned 
to  life  imprisonment  with  his  peers,  never  stopped 
dreaming  that  one  day  he  and  his  countrymen  would 
16/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
build  a  rainbow  nation  reflecting  the  history  of  the 
South African people.
Forgiveness was instituted as a governing method 
through the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and 
that strategy is already a watermark of the negotiations 
among the South African people. It has led to the results 
we know well, with Mandela being awarded the Nobel 
Peace Prize jointly with former President Frederik de 
Klerk, as had been the case with the historic Palestinian 
leader Yasser Arafat along with former Prime Minister 
Rabin and former Foreign Minister Shimon Peres.
Additionally, on behalf of the Union of Comoros, 
I would be remiss if I did not pay tribute to Mandela’s 
personal contribution, on behalf of the African Union, 
to the settlement of the institutional and separatist crisis 
in Comoros in 1998.
We  recognize  Mandela’s  importance  for  global 
sustainable peace, especially in the face of the ugly and 
criminal  face  of  international  terrorism.  The  General 
Assembly  adopted  resolution  72/243  in  2017  with  a 
view to holding this Summit, which highlights a unique 
person — a man who absolutely refused to be defeated 
and  who  was  able  to  overcome  all  obstacles  to  come 
to  understand  that  living  and  dying  in  peace  meant 
recognizing the full humanity of the other.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Arthur 
Peter Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi.
President  Mutharika:  One  hundred  years  after 
his  birth,  it  is  proper  to  commemorate  the  legacy 
of  Nelson  Mandela  and  his  role  in  global  peace.  The 
global  peace  agenda  is  at  the  very  heart  of  Malawi’s 
policies.  Malawi  is  a  peace-loving  country.  We  are 
therefore  committed  to  ensuring  that  there  is  total 
peace  and  tranquillity  in  the  world.  Every  human 
being deserves to live in a peaceful environment with 
peace  of  mind.  With  our  support,  the  African  Union 
will carry out its Master Roadmap of Practical Steps to 
Silence the Guns in Africa by 2020. Malawi will always 
go out to defend peace wherever it is under threat. We 
will  continue  participating  in  peace-loving  missions 
wherever duty calls us to do so. Malawi has moved to 
develop  counter-terrorism  legislation  and  is  party  to 
the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Biological 
Weapons Convention.
However,  the  United  Nations  would  make  more 
progress  and  do  a  better  job  of  maintaining  peace  if 
it  involved  Africa  in  its  decision-making  processes. 
We therefore call upon the United Nations to expedite 
the  debate  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  call  upon 
the United Nations to adopt the African position in the 
Ezulwini Consensus. We call upon the United Nations 
to  accommodate  Africa  with  two  permanent  seats  on 
the Security Council. As we celebrate the life of Nelson 
Mandela,  I  ask  all  of  us  to  reflect  on  the  role  that 
Mandela played in peacebuilding. Let us reflect on the 
role  Africa  might  play  in  the  world  today.  The  world 
needs Africa more than ever. Let us rise up and take our 
place in the global community.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Jean-Claude  Juncker,  President  of  the 
European Commission.
Mr. Juncker (European Union) (spoke in French): 
The  great  Nelson  Mandela  once  said  that  “it  always 
seems impossible until it is done”. That is the most apt 
description of the performance of the founding fathers 
of  the  European  Union,  on  behalf  of  whom  it  is  my 
honour to address the General Assembly this morning.
The European Union was born of the will of those 
who,  having  returned  from  the  fields  of  battle  and 
concentration camps in 1945, turned the phrase “never 
again  to  war”  into  a  reality  by  countering  the  force 
of weapons with the force of law, and the rejection of 
others with solidarity with others. The primary aim of 
the European Union has always been to be a force for 
peacekeeping.  Its  actions  must  extend  far  beyond  the 
borders of Europe. Since it is our relentless obligation 
to assume our global responsibilities, we must have a 
presence in the world.
Since  the  world  belongs  to  us  all,  not  just  a 
few,  and  all  peoples  have  the  right  to  same  dignity, 
multilateralism  will  always  be  the  guiding  principle 
of  our  global  action.  There  is  no  happy  unilateralism 
or protectionism. The world must become more open. 
It  needs  cooperation,  rules  and  principles  to  resolve 
conflicts, to eradicate poverty, to reduce inequality, to 
develop free and fair trade that will create jobs and new 
opportunities for all and to preserve our planet — the 
indivisible heritage of all humankind.
Our shared rules, agreed freely by each of us, do 
not  limit  us.  On  the  contrary,  they  free  us  from  the 
law  of  the  jungle  and  render  each  of  us  stronger.  We 
should  also  enhance  our  respect  for  our  multilateral 
institutions, which are certainly not perfect, but that is 
no reason to call them into question or withdraw from 
18-29599
17/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
them.  Rather,  we  should  pool  our  efforts  to  reform 
them, modernize them and breathe new life into them. 
That is what we should do with the United Nations, the 
keystone of multilateralism and the guarantor of peace 
and the world order. My friend António Guterres knows 
that he can count on the full support of the European 
Union  for  completing  the  reform  of  the  Organization 
so that its functions and ambitions are adapted to our 
twenty-first century world.
Tomorrow,  like  today,  the  European  Union  will 
continue  to  assume  its  responsibilities  in  the  efforts 
to  achieve  the  great  aims  of  the  United  Nations, 
support  of  which  is  more  critical  than  ever.  I  am 
referring particularly to the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  to  which  we 
have  contributed  significantly  and  which  requires  the 
mobilization of all of our policies and financial means.
It  is  a  unique  privilege  and  lasting  inspiration  to 
have  been  able  to  meet  Mandela.  His  words  continue 
to  resonate  within  me  today.  He  came  from  a  cousin 
continent  —  a  young,  noble  and  promising  continent. 
Africa is linked to Europe through our shared destiny. It 
is a neighbour with whom we wish to forge ever-stronger 
ties.  An  alliance  among  our  continents  —  among 
equals — is the only way forward because the fate of 
millions of men, women and children depends on our 
joint efforts.
I  believe  that  the  best  way  we  can  pay  tribute  to 
Mandela  is  to  follow  his  path  for  the  future  and  for 
hope — a path of permanent dialogue among continents 
and  civilizations,  of  the  inseparable  freedom  of  a 
globalized human family, of love for others.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His Excellency Mr. Jusuf Kalla, Vice-President of the 
Republic of Indonesia.
Mr.  Kalla  (Indonesia):  Today  we  celebrate  the 
legacy  of  the  late  President  Nelson  Mandela  and  the 
many ways in which he continues to inspire us — not 
only  his  fellow  South  Africans,  but  also  people  from 
various  corners  of  the  world.  I  was  fortunate  to 
meet  him  in  2003.  I  remember  him  as  a  person  with 
a  calm  character  —  a  modest  figure,  but  with  strong 
convictions.  I  also  remember  fondly  his  beloved, 
colourful batik shirt, which reflected his vibrant spirit.
Nelson Mandela taught us the values of justice and 
reconciliation.  His  struggle  against  apartheid  showed 
us what it means to free ourselves from discrimination 
and to respect human rights and dignity, regardless of 
the differences in our skin colour, faith, nationality or 
social status. Those are values that transcend borders. 
Democracy will succeed when there is peace, respect 
for  differences  and  tolerance.  Peace  and  stability  are 
important preconditions for progress and development.
I am a believer in the value of reconciliation. One 
example  is  how  well  the  reconciliation  process  has 
worked in Aceh. Peace in Aceh has allowed for steady 
economic  development,  and  former  rebels  now  hold 
important Government positions.
Justice  and  reconciliation  were  also  sought  at  the 
regional  and  international  levels.  Indonesia’s  present-
day  relationship  with  Timor-Leste  is  a  model  for 
post-conflict  relations  based  on  those  values.  Our 
good-neighbourly  relations  continue  to  strengthen  the 
forward-looking relationship between our two countries 
and peoples.
We  understand  that  peace  is  a  prerequisite  for 
development and that development would be impossible 
or unsustainable without peace. In order for development 
to be sustainable, it must be fair, both within and among 
societies.  Therefore,  the  United  Nations  and  all  its 
entities should continue to promote and ensure global 
peace, as well as equitable and sustainable development 
for all its Members. No one can be left behind.
We believe that a habit of dialogue nurtures a culture 
of  peace.  It  underpins  good  relations  among  nations, 
tolerance among creeds and religions, and the alliance 
of civilizations. We also believe that dialogue can help 
tackle hate speech, radicalism and violent extremism.
Mr. Sánchez (Spain), Vice-President, took the Chair.
As a true partner for peace, Indonesia is committed 
to waging peace, which includes prevention, avoiding a 
relapse into conflict, and post-conflict peacebuilding. 
Let  us  take  the  life  and  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela 
as  an  example  and  set  to  work  together  on  issues  of 
common concern.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Epsy  Campbell 
Barr, Vice-President of the Republic of Costa Rica.
Ms. Campbell Barr (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): 
Nelson Mandela once said that he was just a common 
man  who  became  a  leader  owing  to  extraordinary 
circumstances. That is the call that we make to those in 
leadership positions. Those are the words of one of the 
18/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
greatest leaders of our times, a man who transcended 
his  circumstances  and  put  the  freedom  of  his  people 
above his own freedom.
This Peace Summit is an extraordinary opportunity 
to  pay  tribute  to  Nelson  Mandela.  I  welcome  this 
meeting, as it allows States to consider the challenge of 
peace, as peace is the basis for ensuring the sustainable 
development  of  our  societies.  It  is  an  opportunity, 
before the opening of the general debate of the General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  to  reflect  upon 
and recognize the legacy of one of the most emblematic 
and  important  figures  of  our  times  and  to  reflect  on 
the  ideals  upon  which  he  based  his  life  and  which 
he  so  ardently  defended.  Mandela  will  always  be  a 
beacon for his courage and for his emotional and moral 
fortitude,  and  above  all  for  the  great  challenges  he 
faced  owing  to  his  convictions  and  in  defence  of  his 
own  principles.  Those  convictions  must  become  our 
source of inspiration in our fight for a world of equality, 
freedom and equal opportunities for men and women, 
where there is neither racism nor discrimination.
The  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela  should  become  an 
even stronger foundation for building peace, dialogue 
and  democracy,  where  national  reconciliation  and 
human  rights  are  central  elements.  When  peace 
breaks  down  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  we  must 
strengthen multilateralism and follow the teachings of 
Nelson  Mandela  with  regard  to  dialogue,  negotiation, 
respect,  humility  and  solidarity  among  peoples  and 
nations. As peoples, as nations and as the international 
community, we must find the way to transcend our own 
circumstances  so  as  to  ensure  the  greatest  good  for 
our  nations —  as  Mandela  did —  and  build  societies 
based on tolerance, reconciliation and dialogue. In that 
manner we can eliminate injustice, oppression, racism 
and discrimination.
Mr. Trudeau (Canada): Nelson Mandela’s message 
of  peace  was  rooted  in  the  conviction  that  we  are  all 
part of the same community, that our fate is tied to that 
of our fellow citizens. He famously held that
“to be free is not merely to cast off one’s chains, 
but to live in a way that respects and enhances the 
freedom of others”.
(spoke in French)
Named  an  honorary  Canadian  citizen  in  2001, 
Nelson  Mandela  touched  the  lives  of  millions  of 
people,  transcending  time  and  place.  Our  former 
Prime  Ministers  Mulroney and  Clark  are  among  the 
Canadians  who  were  firmly  opposed  to  the  apartheid 
regime  and  pressured  world  leaders  and  leaders  of 
multilateral organization to take the same stance. I also 
recall the deep impact that Mandela had on my father, 
who admired his character and his fight for peace. They 
spoke  about  those  topics  at  length  when  they  met  in 
the 1990s.
(spoke in English)
From the dock of the defendant to the confines of 
Robben Island to the floor of the United Nations, Nelson 
Mandela  always  appealed  to  our  common  humanity. 
That must be the foundation of any lasting peace. One 
hundred years after his birth, it is fitting that Madiba be 
remembered here by leaders of all nations.
(spoke in French)
It is fitting that he be remembered by leaders who 
recognize  that  they  share  the  same  challenges  and 
who,  despite  their  differences,  share  the  same  hopes 
and  dreams  of  peace,  prosperity  and  possibilities  for 
their citizens.
(spoke in English)
Today  we  join  in  this  celebration  of  Nelson 
Mandela’s  life  and  legacy  with  the  hope  that  we  can 
become living examples of his legacy. I make a call for 
peace  so  that  our  brother  Republic  of  Nicaragua  can 
create the necessary conditions to emerge from its crisis 
through respectful and tolerant dialogue and respect for 
the human rights of all people. It is our responsibility to 
bring about a just, free and peaceful world.
That is not to say that our solidarity is unquestioned 
or  unshaken.  Armed  conflict,  emerging  threats  and 
a  changing  climate  have  all  tested  the  strength  of 
our  commitment  and  the  bounds  of  our  compassion. 
At  times  like  these,  we  must  remember  the  example 
of  Nelson  Mandela,  who  believed  that  we  should  not 
despair  —  for  our  troubles  only  bear  witness  to  a 
job unfinished.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Justin  Trudeau,  Prime  Minister  of 
Canada.
As we pay tribute to the legacy of Nelson Mandela, 
Canada reaffirms its resolve to push forward the work 
that  he  began.  Canada  will  continue  to  call  out  the 
unfair treatment of racial and ethnic minorities, women 
18-29599
19/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
and girls, and indigenous peoples. We will continue to 
speak up for the Rohingyan refugees, for the Yazidis of 
northern Iraq, and for the people of Venezuela. Canada 
will  always  stand  tall  for  democracy,  the  rule  of  law 
and  human  rights  at  home  and  abroad.  Peace  is  the 
work of many generations. Madiba took up the cause of 
peace, and it is now up to us to keep carrying the torch 
forward. The flames of his ideals must live on in each 
and every one of us.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chief Executive of 
the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Mr. Abdullah (Afghanistan): It is a distinct honour 
for me and the Afghan delegation to attend the Nelson 
Mandela Peace Summit today as we begin the work of 
the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We 
are gathered here today to honour the centenary of the 
birth of the late Nelson Mandela, one of the world’s most 
impressive and dedicated defenders of freedom, liberty 
and human rights, indeed a symbol of those values.
However,  this  Summit  goes  beyond  remembrance 
and celebration. It is an occasion for addressing the real 
challenges and dire conditions faced by human beings 
who  are  being  victimized  in  communities  around  the 
world. It is a reminder that we have not only moral and 
legal obligations to protect and defend, but also another 
opportunity  to  renew  our  commitment  to  peace, 
conflict  prevention  and  resolution,  reconciliation, 
non-discrimination and the protection and promotion of 
human rights. We are all painfully aware of the agony 
and  injustice  faced  by  millions  around  our  planet, 
some  as  victims  of  indiscriminate  violence,  of  which 
terrorism is one particular form.
I  am  here  today  representing  a  country  and  a 
society that has undergone almost 40 years of conflict 
and has suffered mainly as a result of external strife, 
primarily imposed on us against our people’s majority 
will  and  wishes.  Almost  every  theme  and  core  issue 
addressed by the Summit matches conditions faced by 
Afghanistan and the impact that such conditions have 
had on three generations of Afghans.
It is therefore befitting and of critical importance 
to  me  and  my  compatriots  to  focus  on  concepts 
such  as  reconciliation  aimed  at  attaining  a  just  and 
comprehensive peace. The renewal of our commitment 
needs to go beyond rhetoric and empty pledges. We need 
to  translate  them  into  results-oriented  engagement, 
dialogue, negotiations, strategy and policy changes and 
reforms that lead to sustainable and fair solutions. That 
is what we have aimed to do in Afghanistan for the past 
few years.
We  value  the  steadfast  resolve  of  our  security 
forces to fight terrorism, as well as the general support 
of our international friends who stand by those shared 
goals. Our message has been clear: we will defend our 
country and our people’s lives and rights as part of the 
constitutional  order,  but  we  stand  ready  to  talk  and 
negotiate with armed groups amenable to reconciliation, 
as well as with armed opposition forces that renounce 
violence and terror and believe in a united, democratic, 
peaceful and economically prosperous future.
I  believe  that  this  is  the  spirit  conveyed  by  such 
inspiring  global  role  models  as  Nelson  Mandela,  and 
I believe that it is part of the legacy that this body and 
each country carries as part of their commitments and 
responsibilities. I wish us success in bringing the vision 
for peace and human rights to life across the globe.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Boyko Borissov, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr.  Borissov  (Bulgaria)  (spoke  in  Bulgarian; 
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a  great 
privilege  for  me  to  take  part  in  this  important  event 
marking the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela. 
On behalf of the Government and the people of Bulgaria, 
as well as on my own behalf, let me express our sincere 
admiration for his legacy.
The challenges that we are all facing today demand 
that  we  never  forget  the  values  that  Nelson  Mandela 
avidly fought for, namely, peace, tolerance, democracy 
and respect for human rights for all. It is necessary to 
reaffirm  the  principles  of  multilateralism,  as  today’s 
challenges  can  be  overcome  only  if  all  countries 
work together.
Nelson  Mandela  taught  us  that  the  brave  are  not 
afraid  to  forgive  in  the  name  of  peace.  It  is  exactly 
that type of valour that we, the leaders of today, who 
have the task and bear the responsibility of making this 
world  a  better  place,  need  to  demonstrate  —  a  world 
of  shared  opportunities,  shared  prosperity  and  shared 
responsibilities;  a  world  in  which  all  our  differences 
coexist in harmony.
20/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Nelson  Mandela  remains  forever  as  a  glowing 
symbol in human history of the drive of the peoples of 
Africa, as well as all other peoples around the world, for 
freedom, peace, development and prosperity. His cause 
provoked an avalanche of events and changes that led 
to the establishment of a new paradigm of thinking and 
relations based on the defence of human rights, together 
with  the  goal  of  ensuring  social  justice,  development 
and reconciliation.
This  remarkable  anniversary  compels  me 
to 
share  a  few  additional  thoughts.  When  we  talk  about 
social  justice  and  development  here  at  the  United 
Nations,  we  cannot  but  mention  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  Achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, which are universal in nature but 
closely interdependent, is the key to tackling the global 
challenges of today.
In the first half of this year, the Bulgarian presidency 
of the Council of the European Union made significant 
efforts  to  achieve  progress  and  consensus  among  the 
member  States  on  the  main  domains  in  this  area.  We 
are proud that, during that period, the mandate of the 
European Union for the commencement of negotiations 
for  the  conclusion  of  a  new  partnership  agreement 
with  the  79  countries  of  Africa,  the  Caribbean  and 
the  Pacific  was  endorsed.  The  negotiations  aim  to 
establish  a  modern  and  dynamic  partnership  with 
those countries as an important instrument for tackling 
global challenges, namely, the fight against poverty and 
inequality,  and  the  nourishing  of  peace,  security  and 
sustainable growth for all.
This  is  also  the  place  to  take  up  the  commitment 
to redoubling our efforts aimed at eliminating violence 
based  on  gender,  religion  or  ethnicity,  our  struggle 
for  the  empowerment  of  women  and  youth,  who  are 
the  future  of  our  planet.  Only  by  providing  equal 
opportunities for all can prosperity be achieved.
As  I  pay  my  utmost  respects  to  the  political, 
human and spiritual legacy of the extraordinary Nelson 
Mandela, I would like to express my own highest regard 
and  that  of  the  people  of  Bulgaria  for  his  ideals  of 
freedom, equality and justice in relations among people 
around the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Nikol Pashinyan, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Armenia.
Mr.  Pashinyan  (Armenia):  It  is  a  great  a  honour 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the  occasion  of 
the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit,  which  marks  the 
centennial anniversary of that iconic political leader’s 
birth.  Mandela’s  image  symbolizes  peace  and  human 
dignity, while at the same time embodying the ideals of 
struggle and compassion. His name is deeply rooted in 
our collective memory as a pioneer in the fight against 
racism and discrimination and as a strong advocate for 
justice and equality.
It  was  only  half  a  year  ago  that  the  people  of 
Armenia  rejected  fear  and  injustice  and  took  to  the 
streets to protest for their fundamental rights, freedom 
and  dignity.  As  dramatic  events  were  unfolding  in 
the  streets  of  Yerevan,  I  was  asked  if  I  had  a  model 
of  a  leader  who  inspired  me  in  my  national  striving 
for democracy and social justice, and my answer was: 
“Yes, there is such a leader, and that leader is Nelson 
Mandela”.  Having  been  a  political  prisoner  myself,  I 
closely followed the political and life story of that most 
famous political prisoner, who would in the end change 
his  own  country  and  the  aspirations  of  millions  of 
people worldwide. As Mandela said on one occasion,
“I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, 
but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who 
does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear”.
Mandala’s  book  Long  Walk  to  Freedom  was 
with  me  during  my  imprisonment.  It  influenced  my 
conscience  to  a  great  extent  and  motivated  me  to 
embark  upon  my  own  long  walk  to  freedom  through 
imprisonment,  persecution  and  the  struggle  against 
injustice  throughout  the  towns  and  villages  of  my 
country.  In  the  true  spirit  of  Mandela’s  ideals,  our 
movement became known to the world as the Armenian 
non-violent  velvet  revolution  of  love  and  solidarity. 
Now,  months  after  our  people’s  success,  I  stand  here 
at  the  high  rostrum  of  this  Summit,  as  the  Head  of  a 
modern Armenian Government, to celebrate the legacy 
of that great person, whose courage and determination 
serve as an example for others around the globe.
I come from a region where, unfortunately, bloody 
conflicts, corrupt systems of governance and animosity 
among people often overshadow wisdom and the need 
for  peaceful  coexistence.  It  is  said  that  democracies 
do not wage war against one another, and I hope that 
one day our region’s democratic development will rule 
out  the  risk  of  hostilities,  wars  and  hatred.  Armenia 
18-29599
21/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
has firmly embarked upon that path and unwaveringly 
stands for regional peace, stability and reconciliation.
This  Summit  provides  us  with  yet  another 
opportunity to reflect upon the reasons that humankind 
is  not  yet  immune  to  the  scourge  of  discrimination, 
intolerance,  xenophobia,  persecution  and  crimes 
against  humanity.  The  life  and  struggle  of  Nelson 
Mandela will stand as a true model of what should and 
can be done, as he preached that no one is born hating 
others, and if one can learn to hate, one can be taught 
to love. Therefore, the mission of the world’s leaders is 
to learn and teach their people how to love. That will be 
the greatest tribute to Mandela’s memory.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  Erna  Solberg,  Prime  Minister 
of the Kingdom of Norway.
Ms.  Solberg  (Norway):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to 
be here today to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela’s vision 
and  political  leadership.  I  stand  in  this  Hall  as  Prime 
Minister of Norway with the values that I express today 
on  behalf  of  all  five  Nordic  countries  —  Denmark, 
Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Mandela’s dedication to peace, equality and justice 
has been an inspiration to the world. Nelson Mandela 
taught  us  two  important  lessons  about  sustainable 
peace:  the  importance  of  truth  and  reconciliation  and 
the importance of inclusion. It has been 25 years since 
the  Oslo  Accords  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian 
Liberation  Organization  were  signed  in  Washington, 
D.C.  The  end  of  the  Cold  War  had  created  new  hope 
for the future. We saw an opportunity for the mediated 
resolution of armed conflicts. That marked the beginning 
of the Nordic engagement in conflict resolution. It has 
since become a cornerstone of Norwegian and Nordic 
foreign policy. For more than 25 years, all the Nordic 
countries  have  engaged  in  efforts  to  resolve  conflicts 
around the world. We have learned an important lesson 
from  that:  negotiating  a  peace  agreement  is  always 
difficult,  but  implementing  an  agreement  is  even 
harder.  In  fact,  few  peace  agreements  are  ever  fully 
implemented. Sixty per cent of all conflicts recur, and 
since  the  mid-1990s  conflict  recurrence  has  become 
more  common  than  the  onset  of  new  conflicts.  That 
means that the best way to prevent conflict is to ensure 
that peace is sustainable.
Conflict  resolution  is  not  a  quick  fix.  It  requires 
bold  leadership  from  all  the  parties  involved.  During 
his Nobel Peace Prize lecture in Oslo, Nelson Mandela 
emphasized  the  importance  of  public  participation  in 
peace  processes.  That  principle  is  just  as  important 
today, and a key component of public participation is the 
participation of women. Ownership is also vital to the 
sustainability of every peace process. Nelson Mandela 
also showed us that we cannot ignore the past; we have 
to  confront  it  with  the  truth.  Truth  and  reconciliation 
are  key  to  ending  conflict  and  preventing  further 
conflict. Norway and the Nordic countries will continue 
to be inspired by Mandela’s ideals in our peace efforts 
around the world, and we will continue to support the 
Secretary-General in his sustainable peace agenda and 
in efforts to ensure inclusive peace processes.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Joseph Muscat, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Malta.
Mr.  Muscat  (Malta):  It  is  a  privilege  to  have  the 
opportunity  to  celebrate  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of 
Nelson  Mandela  here  with  everyone  today.  We  are 
paying  tribute  not  only  to  a  person,  but  also  to  the 
values  that  he  embodied,  that  is,  reconciliation  over 
revenge, cooperation over conflict and hope over hate. 
It is in that spirit of cooperation that we must grapple 
with  the  emerging  challenges  that  are  already  adding 
to  existing  economic  pressures  and  political  tensions 
worldwide.  Whether  with  regard  to  climate  change 
or migration, our ability to effect change will depend 
upon our capacity to mobilize our resources to address 
underlying  causes.  By  shifting  our  efforts  towards 
sustainable  development,  conflict 
resolution  and 
peacebuilding, we can try to prevent wars and alleviate 
poverty, a blight that dispossesses millions of people. 
In the near future, shifts in the risk of extreme weather 
will become an additional factor that will compel people 
to flee their homes and abandon their communities.
My  country,  Malta,  has  always  maintained 
that  we  are  greater  than  the  sum  of  our  individual 
interests.  Initiatives  such  as  the  Paris  Agreement 
on  Climate  Change  continue  to  provide  reason  for 
optimism.  That  strong  sign  of  unity  should  also  be 
visible in our approach to the exodus of refugees and 
migrants  —  a  phenomenon  that  we  need  to  manage. 
The European Union-Africa Valletta Summit reflected 
our  commitment  to  a  multilateral  approach  aimed  at 
delivering a holistic plan. Going forward, our ability to 
strive towards the collective good will serve as a litmus 
22/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
test of our belief in the values of Nelson Mandela, which 
we are celebrating today.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Andrew  Holness,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  of  Defence,  Economic  Growth  and  Job 
Creation of Jamaica.
Mr.  Holness 
the 
United  Nations  — 
the  greatest  global  peace 
alliance  —  for  convening  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace 
Summit  in  commemoration  of  the  centenary  of  that 
great man’s birth.
commend 
(Jamaica): 
I 
Jamaica is proud of the strong leadership role that 
it played in driving efforts to dismantle the apartheid 
system  in  South  Africa.  Under  that  system,  Nelson 
Mandela  was  unjustly  incarcerated  for  27  years,  and 
millions of Africans were oppressed. We were the first 
country  in  the  western  hemisphere  and  the  second  in 
the world, together with India, to ban trade and travel 
with the racist regime. Jamaica’s support for the fight 
against  racial  injustice  in  South  Africa  preceded  the 
official  advent  of  the  apartheid  system.  Over  many 
years, with support from countries all around the globe, 
many  Jamaicans,  including  academics,  politicians, 
clergy  and  iconic  artists,  such  as  our  own  reggae 
legend  and  freedom  fighter  Bob  Marley,  and  people 
from all walks of life joined together in the clarion call 
“Free Mandela”.
It  is  in  that  context  that  I  am  deeply  honoured  to 
participate  in  this  Summit,  which  comes  at  a  time  of 
heightened global concern about hostility and conflict 
within some of our societies, with some regimes focused 
on the use of might rather than the protection of right. 
The  centenary  of  Nelson  Mandela’s  birth  provides 
us with space as world leaders to affirm the need for 
healthy  and  meaningful  dialogue  to  engender  peace, 
reconciliation and communal accord. Those, I believe, 
are principles that Mandela would very much wish us 
to  promote  on  this  occasion.  Admittedly,  those  goals 
are not easily achieved without significant sacrifice on 
the part of leaders. No one understood that better than 
Nelson Mandela. He asserted that real leaders must be 
ready  to  sacrifice  all  for  the  freedom  of  their  people. 
That was his mantra and sacrifice, to which he held and 
which guided his actions. Nelson Mandela understood, 
however, throughout his long walk to freedom, that full 
freedom  could  be  achieved  only  if  he  left  bitterness 
behind. In that regard, he stated,
“What  counts  is  not  the  mere  fact  that  we  lived. 
It is what difference we have made to the lives of 
others  that  will  determine  the  significance  of  the 
life we lead”.
Like Mandela, we too must commit to the consolidation 
of peaceful coalitions. What better occasion than this 
Summit  to  do  just  that?  Let  that  be  our  legacy  in 
his honour.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jüri  Ratas,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Estonia.
Mr.  Ratas  (Estonia):  It  is  my  honour  to  speak 
here today about the legacy of Nelson Mandela and his 
outstanding  service  to  humankind.  That  legacy  is  an 
example for all of us, as well as for future generations. 
His  endless  fight  for  peace,  human  rights  and 
democracy  permanently  changed  how  we  live  today. 
His  self-sacrificing  aspirations  for  African  freedom 
have inspired many. Nelson Mandela said that the sight 
of freedom looming on the horizon should encourage us 
to redouble our efforts.
Likewise,  in  1990,  Estonia  was  on  the  path  to 
regain  the  most  precious  thing:  its  freedom.  We 
sincerely  appreciate  Nelson  Mandela’s  dedication  to, 
and persistence in, bringing about freedom and justice, 
because  Estonians  know  very  well  the  price  of  peace 
and  independence.  We  welcome  the  adoption  of  the 
Nelson Mandela political declaration (resolution 73/1), 
which calls for the Nelson Mandela Decade of Peace. 
That will take forward the work begun by the African 
Union under Nelson Mandela’s decade of reconciliation 
in  Africa.  Peaceful  solutions  and  preventive  actions 
are  the  most  effective  way  to  avoid  the  escalation 
of disputes.
Estonia  calls  for  the  involvement  of  all  actors, 
including women and young people, in resolving disputes 
in a peaceful manner. We find that reaching a peaceful 
outcome  through  negotiations  and  compromises  is 
always  the  preferable  path  for  achieving  sustainable 
solutions.  Estonia  believes  that  every  person  in  the 
world  should  live  in  dignity.  We  continue  to  promote 
freedom, equality and prosperity. However, we should 
be reminded that we are standing at a crossroads. Once 
again  the  disputes  today  and  the  challenges  of  past 
decades are threatening the world in which we live and 
our shared values. It is our decision as to which path we 
choose. The choice is between a world of alienation and 
18-29599
23/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
hatred or one of unity and prosperity. Looking back at 
the lifelong struggle of Nelson Mandela, who provided 
an example for our own aspirations for independence, 
we should keep in mind that positive changes can never 
be taken for granted.
In conclusion, as part of the United Nations, we are 
reminded everyday of the importance of human rights 
as a bridge to freedom in providing us with a vision in 
our work for achieving justice, freedom and dignity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  for  Finance,  the  Public  Service,  National 
Security, Legal Affairs and Grenadines Affairs of Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines.
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is situated in what has 
been called a zone of peace, and we owe our continued 
peaceful existence to a robust body of international law 
and the United Nations. But it was not always so. The 
genocide  of  all  native  peoples  by  the  colonial  Powers 
and  the  atrocity  of  slavery  brought  conflict  to  our 
idyllic  shores,  and  today  we  continue  to  grapple  with 
those  legacies  of  colonialism.  It  is  that  very  history, 
the human tragedy and the quest for the ennoblement 
of humankind that connects us to Nelson Mandela. In 
celebration  of  the  centennial  of  his  birth  in  July,  my 
Government  renamed  the  South  Leeward  Highway  in 
Saint Vincent in his honour.
Mandela  fought  for  all  peoples,  not  just  South 
Africans.  He  led  his  people’s  dismantling  of  the 
colonial  pyramids  of  oppression  and  racism,  and  he 
led the African National Congress in its mission to end 
apartheid and establish an integrated nation of peace, 
justice,  equality  and  democracy  devoid  of  vengeful 
vendettas.  There  are  attempts  today  to  excise  swaths 
of history from our collective memory and change the 
narrative after the fact to one of the alleged successful 
constructive  engagements  of  yesteryear  by  the  same 
Powers  that  labelled  Mandela  a  terrorist.  But  they 
cannot do that. We remember.
Now the stone that those so-called builders rejected 
has become the cornerstone. We can now all gather at 
the United Nations, including the former naysayers, to 
recognize  that  peace  icon  together.  Mandela’s  legacy 
tells  us  to  stop  grinding  old  axes  and  start  creating 
alliances. He tells us that we might have been separated 
before, but now we are together. His life shows us how 
an  enemy  and  so-called  threat  to  global  peace  today 
can be a friend tomorrow. Mandela believed that there 
cannot be peace without equality. He stood up against 
unilateralism and nationalism in favour of dialogue. He 
told us that we must do more to live up to those ideals, 
which  have  been  captured  in  the  political  declaration 
(resolution 73/1), which we adopted today. As we join 
in the universal remembrance of Nelson Mandela, 100 
years  after  his  birth,  let  us  memorialize  him  with  a 
renewed commitment to sustaining peace globally.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Jacinda  Ardern,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Arts, Culture and Heritage, and National 
Security and Intelligence of New Zealand.
Ms. Ardern (New Zealand): I am honoured to be 
here to mark the legacy of Nelson Mandela and the 100th 
year since his birth. Nelson Mandela was a global icon 
for  the  fight  for  equality,  freedom  and  human  rights. 
Not only did he lead the struggle against apartheid and 
division,  but  he  personified  the  values  of  forgiveness 
and  reconciliation.  When  I  say  that  his  impact  was 
global, I mean just that. Nelson Mandela had a profound 
impact on New Zealand. His struggle against apartheid 
was supported in New Zealand through a mass protest 
movement,  which  opposed  sporting  contacts  between 
our  countries,  particularly  the  Springboks  and  the 
All Blacks, culminating in major protest events in the 
early 1980s.
My  father  missed  my  first  birthday  because  of 
it.  He  was  a  policeman  and  was  called  upon  to  work 
during the protests that surrounded that tour. The 1981 
Springbok tour protests were a lesson in solidarity and 
its impact. When Madiba visited New Zealand in 1995 
as the elected President of South Africa, he described 
the  news  of  the  protest  action  in  New  Zealand  in  the 
1980s  as  the  sun  coming  out.  I  remember  that  1995 
visit,  his  dignity  and  his  inspiration.  Mandela  was 
a  living  embodiment  of  United  Nations  values.  It  is 
those  values  and  Mandela’s  moral  example  that  we 
seek to promote in a world that is more fragmented and 
fractured than ever — an example that calls for justice, 
peace and forgiveness.
For many New Zealanders our most vivid memory 
of Mandela was his appearance on the field following 
South  Africa’s  1995  Rugby  World  Cup  victory  over 
New  Zealand,  while  donning  a  Springbok  jersey 
and  presenting  the  trophy  to  the  South  African  team 
24/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
captain. That was a seminal moment. If Mandela could 
make peace, so could the rest of South Africa. That one 
act of both triumph and reconciliation said much about 
who Nelson Mandela was, his capacity to forgive, his 
commitment  to  reconciliation  and  his  ability  to  lead 
and inspire against all odds.
It  is  to  those  same  values  of  promoting  peace 
that  we  committed  ourselves  to  when  we  signed  the 
Charter of the United Nations. We collectively bound 
ourselves to the settlement of disputes and diplomacy. 
That  means  that,  when  we  see  a  worsening  security 
situation, we act. For too long the United Nations and 
the  international  community  have  waited  to  react. 
Instead, we must be proactive and place greater focus 
on conflict prevention. We must get better at identifying 
high-risk situations and warning signs before conflict 
begins. We must not be silent in the face of intolerance, 
hate and discrimination. We must speak for those who 
do not have a voice. We must pursue equal rights for all.
Let  us  today  remember  Mandela  and  the  values 
he devoted his life to on his long walk to freedom, but 
let us also not forget the work that remains to be done. 
We  must  ensure  that  the  just,  peaceful,  prosperous, 
democratic  and  inclusive  world  for  which  Mandela 
strove is fully realized. New Zealand’s commitment to 
that work remains unwavering. Above all else, Madiba 
taught us that, whatever the issue — whether it concern 
racism, inequity or insurmountable differences — none 
of us is too small or too far away to be relevant in the 
collective struggle for justice. As we remember Madiba, 
my hope is that we all will give a reason for the sun to 
come out.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Mamuka Bakhtadze, Prime Minister of 
Georgia.
Mr. Bakhtadze (Georgia): It is an honour for me to 
be here today to address this audience. The centenary 
of the birth of Nelson Mandela is a great opportunity 
to  celebrate  his  great  achievements,  and,  for  most 
of  us,  it  is  an  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  universal 
values of peace, humanity, diversity and reconciliation 
that guided him and inspired millions. We must admit 
that  the  world  of  today  is  falling  increasingly  behind 
in terms of adhering to Mandela’s legacy. We continue 
to fall victim to unresolved armed conflicts, the threat 
of terrorism, grave human rights abuses and numerous 
forms of discrimination and inequality throughout the 
towards 
world.  In  these  challenging  times,  our  efforts  should 
in  multilateralism, 
be  directed 
investing 
sustaining  peace  and  building 
inclusive,  diverse 
societies that stand on the pillars of democracy, human 
rights and the rule of law.
None  cherish  peace  more  than  those  who  have 
experienced its absence. Peace in my country, Georgia, 
has  been  challenged  by  the  ongoing  conflict  with  the 
Russian Federation. That conflict, which dates back to 
the early 1990s, has affected hundreds of thousands of 
people, including those who had to flee their homes and 
remain unable to return, as well as those few who remain 
in the occupied territories and are sealed off from the 
rest  of  the  world,  while  facing  ethnic  discrimination 
and grave human rights violations. In the twenty-first 
century,  we  continue  to  witness  the  installation  of 
razor-  and  barbed-wire  fences,  which  divide  families 
and  cut  people  off  from  their  livelihoods.  All  of  that 
sharply contrasts with the vision and ideals that Nelson 
Mandela fought for. Despite the existential challenges 
that we face today, our response to the aggression has 
involved  constructive  engagement  and  negotiations 
aimed  at  the  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict.  As 
Nelson Mandela said, “The common ground is greater 
and more enduring than the differences that divide”.
We  are  determined  to  reach  out  to  our  fellow 
citizens  residing  on  the  other  side  of  the  occupation 
line  and  bridge  the  divides  so  as  to  build  a  common, 
prosperous  future  for  our  nation.  With  that  in  mind, 
in  April,  the  Government  of  Georgia  launched  an 
important  peace  initiative,  entitled  “A  step  towards  a 
better  future”.  Through  that  initiative,  we  are  taking 
concrete  steps  towards  improving  the  humanitarian, 
social  and  economic  conditions  of 
the  conflict-
affected population.
It is time that we collectively raise our voices and 
join efforts aimed at restoring a rules-based order and 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 
Those values cannot be taken for granted. We owe it to 
future generations to ensure that they live in peaceful 
and  inclusive  societies.  Nelson  Mandela’s  fight  for 
progress, justice and equality should guide us on that 
road.  As  he  once  famously  said,  “It  always  seems 
impossible until it is done”.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Duško  Marković,  Prime  Minister  of 
Montenegro.
18-29599
25/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
(Montenegro) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Marković 
in 
Montenegrin;  English  interpretation  provided  by  the 
delegation): It is a particular honour for me to be able 
to address the General Assembly at this Summit named 
after  one  of  the  genuine  heroes  of  modern  times.  He 
was  a  man  who  faced  some  of  the  gravest  challenges 
following  the  Second  World  War  and  yet  found  the 
required  courage  and  wisdom  to  make  the  modern 
world a better place in which to live. By preserving the 
memory of the fearless spirit of Nelson Mandela — a 
unique  symbol  of  the  struggle  against  apartheid  and 
discrimination — humankind is fulfilling its obligation 
to safeguard the future based on the foundations laid by 
Mandela in his committed struggle for the liberation and 
prosperity of South Africa, the modern culmination of 
which was based on values conducive to the prosperity 
of all of humankind. It is to those values in particular 
that we should dedicate ourselves in order to make the 
world  a  better  place.  The  challenges  of  today’s  world 
are  becoming  increasingly  complex,  while  bringing 
about  divisions  within  it  that  could  undermine  the 
overall progress already made.
I believe that it is only through a joint and unified 
response and by reinforcing multilateralism, a synonym 
for agreement among peoples and nations, that we can 
ensure  forward  progress.  In  order  to  accomplish  that 
goal, we need an efficient and effective United Nations 
that  promotes  the  sacred  values  of  human  rights, 
equality and peace, thus serving as a stable anchor for 
all of our aspirations. Based on the foundation of Nelson 
Mandela’s legacy, global differences and disparities can 
be transformed into an environment where civil values 
are  preserved  and  cherished,  enabling  a  better  future 
for the generations to come.
The  region  that  I  come  from  is  well  known  for 
a  proverb  that  says  that  our  region  absorbs  history. 
Unfortunately, we have witnessed many conflicts. But 
we in Montenegro have also managed to find the inner 
strength  to  overcome  the  consequences  of  lost  years 
through mediation. Montenegro is one of six countries 
that  emerged  following  the  dissolution  of  the  former 
Yugoslavia, and despite the challenges it has faced, it 
has preserved its internal stability.
We  proudly  point  out  that  during  the  1990s  we 
opened  our  borders  to  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
refugees  and  displaced  persons,  which  was  quite  a 
natural  choice  for  our  multi-ethnic,  multi-religious 
and  tolerant  community.  Based  on  the  foundation  of 
intertwined religions, cultures and nations, we restored 
our  independence  precisely  109  years  after  our  first 
peacekeeping  mission.  It  is  my  particular  honour 
today  at  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit  to  have 
the opportunity to recall the Montenegrin soldiers who 
were deployed on the island of Crete to mediate between 
the Cretans and the Greeks on 11 January 1897, paving 
the  way  for  the  Blue  Helmets  of  the  United  Nations. 
Those 70 soldiers and nine officers made our country 
proud for many years. My main reason for recalling this 
fact is to pay tribute to all the brave men and women 
who  are  today  risking  their  lives  under  the  blue  flag 
of  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  help  others  and  in 
order  to  preserve  the  values  that  we  promote  here  on 
the East River.
I  thank  the  membership  for  this  opportunity  to 
convey  the  readiness  of  Montenegro  to  reaffirm  its 
decision to continue to contribute to peace and equality 
among people. The best beacon on that road is the work 
of Nelson Mandela. That is why I would like to wrap 
up  by  expressing  my  utmost  respect  for  his  legacy.  I 
believe that it will forever remain an inspiration for the 
current and future generations of the entire world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe  Bainimarama,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Itaukei  Affairs,  Sugar 
Industry and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Fiji.
Mr. Bainimarama (Fiji): Before I begin, I would 
like  also  to  congratulate  the  representatives  of  South 
Africa and Ireland, Mr. Jerry Matjila and Ms. Geraldine 
Byrne  Nason,  and  all  our  representatives  for  their 
commitment to this consultation process.
My  fellow  representatives  have  given  full  and 
inspiring  accounts  of  the  life  of  service  that  His 
Excellency  Nelson  Mandela  lived  and  of  the  legacy 
that  he  bequeathed  to  humanity:  one  of  tolerance, 
reconciliation,  equality  and  kindness.  As  a  political 
activist  who  went  through  27  years  of  imprisonment, 
as  a  national  leader,  and  finally  as  an  international 
statesman,  he  held  firmly  to  his  principles  and  acted 
with  supreme  wisdom.  Through  his  life  and  legacy, 
Madiba  is  an  inspiration  to  all  of  us  who  strive  to 
respect and protect the human rights of all people.
That  legacy  should  mean  a  great  deal  to  every 
person on our planet, but it holds a special meaning for 
the nation and the people that I lead. That is because, 
like  South  Africa,  Fiji  and  the  Fijian  people  suffered 
for decades under ethnicity-based political and cultural 
26/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
divisions  that  fuelled  hatred  and  disunity  among  our 
communities.  It  is  only  in  recent  years  that  we  have 
begun to shed that legacy and unshackle ourselves from 
our difficult history of ethnic division. We have done 
that through a strict and unrelenting adherence to the 
same principles for which Madiba so nobly sacrificed 
himself during his life in order to defend a commitment 
to equal opportunity, and common and equal citizenry. 
Those  principles  lie  at  the  heart  of  Fiji’s  constitution. 
It  is  on  that  foundation  that  Fiji  will  realize  its  full 
potential as a nation. That is the late Nelson Mandela’s 
enduring  gift  to  our  country.  As  such,  it  is  with  the 
greatest pride that I give my support to today’s political 
declaration, a pride that I know is shared by the Fijian 
people, a people that stands together, united today like 
never before in our history.
The journey of human progress is unending. Yes, 
we  still  face  a  world  afflicted  by  conflict,  racism 
and  intolerance.  But  Mandela  showed  us  that  we  can 
always forge common ground, even in the bleakest of 
situations, and that we can always find understanding 
in the shared experiences of our common humanity. At 
home,  abroad  and  in  every  encounter  and  exchange, 
we must engage with an open mind. We must strive for 
acceptance  and  understanding.  We  must  also  remain 
committed  to  peace  and  democratic  ideas.  That  was 
Mandela’s  vision,  and  that  is  what  is  captured  by  the 
Mandela Declaration.
Sometimes  we  have  to  make  sacrifices  in  order 
to  forge  enduring  and  just  solutions  to  long-standing 
problems.  Mandela  knew  that.  In  fact,  that  is  how  he 
lived his life. It is a truth that we in Fiji recognize as 
well. That is why thousands of brave Fijians have served 
on the front lines in conflict areas around the world as 
United Nations peacekeepers over the past 40 years. We 
are deeply proud of that legacy. We have been proud to 
make  such  a  large  commitment  to  global  peace  for  a 
nation of our size and population. And we are equally 
proud  to  lead  the  world  in  confronting  some  of  the 
greatest  challenges  facing  humanity,  such  as  climate 
change and the degradation of our oceans and seas. We 
have led those important campaigns as President of the 
2017  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  and 
co-Chair of the Ocean Conference.
As  part  of  our  commitment  to  the  global  human 
family,  we  have  built  bridges  between  nations,  State 
and local Governments, civil society, business leaders 
and ordinary citizens to overcome what differences we 
may have in order to realize common goals — a stated 
objective  in  the  Declaration.  In  that  way  and  in  so 
many others, the Nelson Mandela political declaration 
and  this  Summit  amplify  our  own  national  priorities 
and  how  we  Fijians  see  ourselves  in  the  world  —  as 
champions  of  peace,  able  and  willing  to  forge  bonds 
across  the  global  stage  and  as  committed  partners  in 
uplifting and protecting all people, irrespective of who 
they are or where they may come from.
With  those  few  words,  I  am  pleased  to  support 
todat’s  political  declaration  on  behalf  of  Fiji  and  to 
give, along with other leaders here, my full support to 
ensuring  that  we  build  a  better,  more  peaceful,  more 
equal and more inclusive world — a world that lives up 
to the example of the great Nelson Mandela.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho.
Mr.  Thabane  (Lesotho):  It  is  a  great  privilege 
for me to deliver remarks on this auspicious occasion 
marking the centenary of the birth of Nelson Rolihlahla 
Mandela.  Indeed,  it  is  befitting  that  this  Summit 
is  entitled  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit.  The 
contribution  of  Nelson  Mandela  to  peace,  freedom, 
democracy,  peaceful  conflict  resolution  and 
the 
promotion of human rights is unparalleled. The peace 
that we enjoy today, in Africa and beyond, was earned 
through  the  sacrifices  of  brave  and  selfless  men  and 
women, including of course Nelson Mandela.
Nelson Mandela is undoubtedly one of the greatest 
leaders and statesmen of our time. I stand before this 
body  today,  bearing  testimony,  since  my  country  had 
occasion to benefit from the wisdom of that great man 
in resolving our own internal conflicts. In 1998, when 
my country was in great turmoil and had plunged into 
internal strife, former President Mandela, through his 
unique  and  unifying  leadership,  skill  and  humanity, 
ably  negotiated  a  breakthrough  by  way  of  a  peace 
settlement amid very acrimonious disagreements.
We  in  Lesotho  also  witnessed  at  first  hand  the 
brutality and suffering that the black people of South 
Africa  and  their  liberation  leaders,  including  Nelson 
Mandela,  went  through  under  the  apartheid  yoke.  It 
was through the leadership of former President Nelson 
Mandela and other revolutionary leaders that the people 
of South Africa remained hopeful in the face of despair, 
and of course ultimately they defeated the enemy.
18-29599
27/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Mandela  lived  a  courageous  life,  epitomized  by 
resilience,  forgiveness  and  commitment  to  a  cause 
bigger than himself. He was a giant who, all in the quest 
for peace, selflessly embraced challenges that seemed 
impossible to many. In the context of the struggle for 
liberation by the black people in South Africa, he had 
the following to say:
a  mere  concept  or  an  isolated  one.  In  the  strict  sense 
of  the  term,  peace  is  defined  as  the  simple  absence 
of  violence.  However,  Peace  with  a  capital  “P”  is  far 
more than just an absence of violence. It means justice, 
reconciliation, inclusion and respect for human rights. 
Peace that is built on the basis of injustice, vengeance 
or exclusion cannot be true or sustainable peace.
“I  cannot  pinpoint  a  moment  when  I  became 
politicized,  but  a  steady  accumulation  of  a 
thousand slights, a thousand indignities, a thousand 
unremembered  moments  produced 
in  me...  a 
rebelliousness,  a  desire  to  fight  the  system  that 
imprisoned my people”.
Today, we can speak of a free and democratic South 
Africa,  thanks  to  the  leadership  of  Nelson  Mandela. 
Mandela, and other liberation fighters across the globe 
have done their part. However, there is still a lot more 
that needs to be done. Today, humankind is suffering 
from  multidimensional  crises,  such  as  terrorism,  the 
denial  of  human  rights,  economic  intolerance,  the 
oppression of the weak, and many others. All of those 
factors  not  only  disturb  the  equilibrium  of  peace,  but 
present an indictment of us all as leaders.
As we honour Madiba in this Summit, I challenge 
each of us to individually and collectively take a page 
from his life. Let us resolve to emulate and continue the 
legacy that he left by striving to have a positive effect 
on others around us. Let us embrace the values that he 
championed,  which  include  economic  development, 
the  eradication  of  poverty  and  the  struggle  to  create 
a  better  life  for  humankind.  Our  commitment  should 
be to follow in his footsteps so as to make the world a 
place where we can all live in peace and harmony.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Antoni Martí Petit, Head of Government 
of the Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  French): 
For  those  of  my  generation  who  entered  politics  25 
or  30  years  ago,  President  Mandela  was  always  a 
model  to  be  followed.  He  was  a  true  pillar  of  an  era 
marked  by  the  processes  of  democratization,  peace 
and  optimism.  Mandela,  and  like  him  Gandhi  several 
decades previously, helped us to restore our confidence 
in  humankind,  the  power  of  language,  the  struggle 
for  peace  and  the  ability  to  engender  change.  I  am 
convinced that one of the key contributions of Nelson 
Mandela was to show us that peace should not remain 
The  same  goes  for  the  concept  of  democracy.  In 
a  strict  sense,  it  simply  means  the  election  of  those 
who  govern  by  the  governed.  But  democracy  in  the 
broader sense also means justice, opportunities for all 
and  respect  for  fundamental  rights.  One  of  the  major 
problems  that  democratic  regimes  must  face  today  is 
the fact that democracy is gradually moving away from 
the  values  that  make  it  a  more  complete  and  stronger 
system.  We  are  seeing  non-liberal  and  authoritarian 
democracies appear across the world. Those are regimes 
in which those who govern are, to be sure, elected by 
the governed; however, there is a failure on the part of 
those who govern to respect the rights of those whom 
they govern. Mandela taught us that a peace that gives 
rise to exclusion or misery cannot be a real peace, and 
that an unfair or discriminatory democracy is not a true 
democracy.  We  must  be  able  to  apply  the  lessons  of 
President Mandela to our efforts to build a fairer and 
more inclusive world, because what is necessary at the 
local level is also and perhaps even more necessary at 
the global level.
The Principality of Andorra is a country that has 
no army and that has enjoyed 740 years of peace and 
neutrality.  We  are  a  country  with  strong  democratic 
roots. Like all free, democratic States, we must continue 
to  work  for  inclusion,  non-discrimination  and  justice. 
The  Secretary-General  knows  that  he  can  count  on 
Andorra in the work of strengthening our commitment 
to  achieving  sustainable  peace  and  preventing  and 
resolving conflicts, while respecting international law 
and  promoting  human  rights.  The  values  of  President 
Mandela  are  also  the  values  of  the  United  Nations; 
they are, therefore, also the values of the Principality 
of Andorra.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Hubert  Alexander  Minnis,  Prime 
Minister of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr.  Minnis  (Bahamas):  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening  the 
Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit  in  support  of  global 
28/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
peace.  Amid  the  wars,  conflicts,  violence,  injustice, 
hunger and bitter hatreds that stalk the global commons 
today,  we  find  hope  in  the  commemoration  of  the 
centenary  of  the  birth  of  a  noble  soul,  whose  witness 
to  reconciliation  and  peace  is  an  eternal  wellspring 
for humanity.
Peace  and  justice  are  as  indivisible  as  the  bond 
of  human  dignity,  which  transcends  race,  creed, 
ethnicity  and  every  circumstance  of  birth  amid  the 
exuberant  diversity  of  humanity.  In  1985,  the  Eighth 
Commonwealth  Heads  of  Government  Meeting  was 
held in the Bahamas, hosted by the late Prime Minister 
Sir  Lynden  Pindling,  a  leading  figure  in  the  struggle 
for  equality  and  majority  rule  in  the  Bahamas.  The 
meeting  produced  the  Commonwealth  Agreement  on 
South  Africa,  also  known  as  the  Nassau  Accord.  The 
Nassau  Accord  pressed  for  the  then  Government  of 
South Africa to enter into negotiations with the black 
majority  to  end  apartheid.  The  Accord  also  called  on 
South Africa to end the occupation of Namibia.
The  struggle  for  peace  and  justice  is  universal. 
In  2014,  Sir  Arthur  Foulkes,  our  then  Head  of  State, 
penned a letter to the students of the Bahamas, in which 
he  said  that  the  attainment  of  majority  rule  was  the 
second emancipation of the Bahamas in 1967:
“That  event  removed  the  last  psychological 
shackles from the minds of many; it shattered false 
notions  of  superiority  or  inferiority;  it  created 
the  foundation  upon  which  to  build  a  society 
with opportunity for all; it unleashed the hitherto 
brutally  suppressed  but  powerful  entrepreneurial 
instincts  of  a  people.  It  freed  many  Bahamians 
from the fear of one another because of differences 
of colour or ethnic origin.”
As we reflect on the centenary of Nelson Mandela’s 
birth, and the seventieth anniversary of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  the  most  enduring 
witness and testimony that we may offer is in the extent 
of the courage we show, like that man of nobility and 
grace who was prepared to give his life in the service 
of humanity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alexis  Tsipras,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Hellenic Republic.
our  civilization  inspired  the  democratic  ideals  that 
he fought for and was ready to risk his life for. In the 
century  that  has  passed,  it  was  Nelson  Mandela  who 
inspired  those  democratic  ideals  and  kept  them  alive 
under  the  most  difficult  conditions.  Today,  his  vision 
and actions are more relevant than ever, as our efforts 
are  facing  existential  challenges,  namely,  an  increase 
in  wars  and  conflicts,  growing  regional  inequalities, 
a  strengthening  of  racism  and  the  emergence  of 
religious fundamentalism.
The  current  state  of  affairs  requires  a  leadership 
in  the  style  of  Mandela:  a  relentless  fighter  for 
independence, peace and human rights and, at the same 
time,  a  responsible  leader  and  formidable  diplomat 
who  was  ready  to  make  the  compromises  necessary 
to ensure the achievement of those goals. I think that 
was  his  power.  He  was  a  fighter  who  had  proved  his 
commitment to the rights of his people as he rose from 
the  radical  left,  engaged  in  the  colonial  struggle  and 
endured  the  27  years  of  his  imprisonment.  And  yet 
he  became  a  statesman  who  transformed  his  anger 
and  conviction  into  an  unmatchable  energy  aimed  at 
reconciliation, unity and peace.
If we can learn how to hate, we can learn how to love, 
Mandela said. At a time when the political momentum 
is  moving  rapidly  backwards,  we  must  believe  that 
we can turn things around. Social progress and peace 
are not givens. They are earned through struggle and 
compromise. My country, Greece, has gone through both 
over the past three difficult years. Now Greece is exiting 
economic programmes of austerity, while protecting the 
most  vulnerable;  consolidating  citizenship  rights  for 
the  children  of  migrants;  reinforcing  the  rights  of  the 
Muslim minority; protecting the rights of the lesbian, 
gay,  bisexual  and  transgender  community;  managing 
unprecedented refugee flows, while respecting human 
rights; and resolving such international differences as 
the  name  issue  with  our  neighbour  to  the  north,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
I  believe  strongly  that  whether  we  are  talking 
about  overcoming  such  conflicts  as  exist  in  Syria  or 
the  Palestinian  issue,  achieving  the  United  Nations 
Millennium Development Goals or supporting African 
development,  Nelson  Mandela’s  example 
should 
inspire us today to do much better at the national and 
international levels.
Mr.  Tsipras  (Greece):  I  come  from  a  country 
far  away  from  that  of  Nelson  Mandela.  Nevertheless, 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
18-29599
29/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Mr.  Carl  Greenidge,  Vice-President  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  Greenidge  (Guyana):  Guyana  commends  the 
organizing of the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit. The 
Summit  provides  the  international  community  with 
an opportunity to reflect on global peace in tribute to 
the centennial celebration and legacy of the inimitable 
Nelson Mandela.
The  central  organizing  objective  of  the  United 
Nations, enshrined in its Charter, is that we the peoples 
resolve to save succeeding generations from the scourge 
of  war.  It  is  therefore  both  timely  and  appropriate, 
as  world  leaders  gather  for  the  current  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  in  the  face  of  persistent 
and  increasing  challenges  to  our  resolve  to  make  the 
world a better place, that this Peace Summit has been 
convened  as  a  fitting  reminder  and  inspiration  of  our 
guiding pursuit.
It  is  clear,  of  course,  that  the  peace  that  we  seek 
together is more than the absence of war. It is premised 
on  the  security  of  people,  the  security  of  nation 
States  and  the  building  at  all  levels  of  frameworks 
and institutions, such as the United Nations, that will 
unremittingly  pursue  the  realization  of  this  objective. 
The life and work of Nelson Mandela provide stirring 
examples of all those dimensions. His experience as a 
political  prisoner  for  many  years  made  him  a  tireless 
champion  for  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms 
of  people  everywhere.  Mandela’s  life  was  based  on  a 
profound  certainty  that  there  are  no  differences  that 
justify  discrimination,  violence,  abuse  or  oppression. 
Instead,  he  believed  in  a  viable  path  of  cohesion  and 
unity.  It  is  therefore  no  coincidence  that  the  basic 
standards for the humane treatment of prisoners bears 
the name “the Mandela principles”.
At  the  level  of  his  country,  Mandela  led  with 
integrity  and  dismantled  structures  that  entrenched 
inequality.  Beyond  that  he  modelled  and  instituted 
a  process  of  national  reconciliation  that  set  the 
parameters  of  cohesion,  justice  and  development.  As 
a  leader  of  standing  in  the  international  community, 
he  contributed  to  the  building  of  global  institutions 
through his dedication and his decision to advance the 
values  and  aspirations  of  the  United  Nations  through 
the  promotion  of  conflict  resolution,  human  rights 
and  equality.  South  Africa’s  decision  to  voluntarily 
relinquish nuclear weapons is one that has set a high bar 
of efficacious action in the pursuit of peace. Together, 
those contributions warrant a singular place for Nelson 
Mandela as one whose name can, with credit, bear the 
message of the commitment to peace. The designation 
of  Nelson  Mandela  International  Day  is  therefore  a 
fitting reminder of his objective and ongoing work to 
achieve global peace.
Nelson Mandela has shown us that it is necessary 
for  us  to  work  for  the  peace  that  we  want.  Progress 
is  not  possible  without  sacrifice,  patience,  diligence 
and  a  broadness  of  spirit  that  embraces  forgiveness, 
reconciliation  and  new  beginnings.  Furthermore, 
enlightened and determined actions are required from 
individuals, from nations and from us all together as an 
international community. In that regard we cannot rest 
while abuse, violence and discrimination are rampant. 
We must also eliminate the implements of warfare that 
cause suffering, insecurity and fear among the peoples 
of the world. Our efforts to eradicate poverty in all its 
forms and to empower men, women, young people and 
the  marginalized  to  reach  their  full  potential  must  be 
accelerated.  Those  are  all  dimensions  and  facets  of 
our  work  for  peace.  For  that  reason,  we  reaffirm  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  including 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  as  a  veritable 
mechanism to stimulate action in all areas in the cause 
of peace and to ensure that no one is left behind. In that 
regard,  we  share  the  view  that  there  can  be  no  peace 
without  sustainable  development  and  no  sustainable 
development without peace.
Global  peace  is  cast  as  an  elusive  dream  far  too 
often.  And  for  many  —  and  too  often  —  it  has  and 
continues  to  be  elusive.  The  life  of  Madiba  provides 
persuasive  confirmation  of 
the 
contribution of consistent and principled efforts to the 
pursuit of peace at all levels. To that end, Guyana fully 
endorses the political declaration adopted by the Nelson 
Mandela Peace Summit and renews its commitment to 
the  creation  of  a  peaceful  and  cohesive  society  and  a 
world in which peace and the pursuit thereof prevail.
the  efficacy  of 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency Ms. Leona Marlin-Romeo, Prime Minister 
of Sint Maarten of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Ms.  Marlin-Romero  (Netherlands):  Today  I  am 
truly  grateful  on  this  occasion  to  participate  in  this 
Peace  Summit  devoted  to  one  of  the  most  prominent 
revolutionary  figures  of  our  time,  Nelson  Mandela. 
Dedicating the 2019-2028 period to Nelson Mandela as 
30/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
affirmed  in  the  political  declaration  (resolution  73/1) 
adopted today has great symbolic and inspirational value. 
Let me seize this opportunity to thank South Africa and 
Ireland for their valuable efforts in co-facilitating the 
drafting process. Today’s global challenges and threats 
remind  us  that  the  world  that  Madiba  hoped  for,  the 
world envisaged in the Charter of the United Nations, 
is still far from being a reality. We need to step up our 
efforts. As the Dutch philosopher Baruch Spinoza said, 
“peace is not the absence of war; it is a virtue, a state 
of  mind,  a  disposition  of  benevolence,  confidence, 
justice”.
in 
Madiba  already  saw 
in  political,  social  and 
economic  exclusion  key  factors 
igniting  and 
perpetuating conflict. The peacebuilding and sustaining 
peace  agenda  and  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  are  the  most  comprehensive  tools  for 
achieving a sustainable, long-lasting peace that leaves 
no behind. Promoting and implementing them must be 
our  priority.  More  inclusive  societies,  socioeconomic 
development and access to justice is what they envision, 
together with a key role for local leadership.
Madiba inspired us to aim for a world where, to use 
his own words,
“colour, race and gender become only a God-given 
gift to each one of us and not an indelible mark or 
attribute that accords a special status to any”.
Indeed,  building  an  exclusive  society  where  all  its 
parts can actively participate and contribute, including 
women and youth, leads to stronger and more reliable 
institutions  able  to  address  people’s  needs  and  thus 
to  prevent  the  outburst  of  conflict.  Civil-society 
organizations  and  non-governmental  organizations 
play  a  vital  role  in  helping  Governments  to  achieve 
this purpose.
Let  me  also  share  my  country’s  experience.  The 
Kingdom of the Netherlands comprises four countries: 
the  Netherlands,  Aruba,  Curaçao  and  Sint  Maarten, 
and  each  relies  on  an  inclusive  approach  to  foster 
sustainable  development  and  promote  peace.  The 
society  we  seek  to  create  must  be  a  people-centred 
society.  All  its  institutions  and  its  resources  must 
be  dedicated  to  the  pursuit  of  a  better  life  for  all  our 
citizens, as Mandela claimed.
Nelson Mandela embodies the values and principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. We have 
a  serious  responsibility  towards  future  generations, 
preserving his legacy and carrying on his hopes for a 
better, fairer world. Ensuring our people’s fundamental 
human rights, the rule of law and human dignity is the 
foundation  of  freedom,  justice  and  peace,  values  to 
which my country is staunchly committed.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Adel  Ahmed 
Al-Jubeir, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia, who will speak on behalf of the Group 
of Arab States.
Mr. Al-Jubeir (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): I 
am pleased to stand before the General Assembly today 
on behalf of the League of Arab States and the country 
that  served  as  President  of  the  twenty-ninth  Arab 
Summit,  namely,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  We 
are here to participate in this Peace Summit, a summit 
bearing the name of a man who changed history through 
his  tolerance,  patience,  and  human  qualities,  despite 
the  many  years  of  pain,  suffering  and  incarceration 
he  endured  as  he  fought  for  peace,  security  and 
development in South Africa and throughout the world.
That great man was born 100 years ago. He lived for 
peace which was his aim, and earned the appreciation 
and respect of the entire world.
The  late  President  Nelson  Mandela  had  strong 
historical  links  with  the  leadership  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Saudi  Arabia  and  other  Arab  countries.  He  always 
supported 
the  primary  Arab  and  Muslim  cause, 
namely, that of Palestine. He supported the right of the 
Palestinian  people  to  their  independent  State  within 
the  1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
in  accordance  with  international  laws,  the  relevant 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative. We will never forget his famous words 
when he said that the South African revolution will not 
achieve  all  its  objectives  until  the  Palestinian  people 
enjoy their freedom.
The late President Mandela also supported several 
other  Arab  causes,  and  together  with  the  Kingdom 
of  Saudi  Arabia,  made  contributions  to  resolving  the 
Lockerbie issue, a rather thorny matter in 1999.
Social justice and the culture of peace and freedom 
were  always  the  watchwords  of  Nelson  Mandela.  He 
provided inspiration to many people around the world. 
He made a major contribution to the promotion of peace, 
human  rights  and  sustainable  development,  as  well 
as a dignified life. Perhaps one of the most important 
18-29599
31/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
lessons  that  we  can  learn  from  Nelson  Mandela  is  to 
continue building and strengthening peace and security 
throughout the world in order to achieve well-being for 
our peoples, and to enjoy security, peace and prosperity 
by  promoting  peaceful  coexistence  among  peoples 
and respecting the principle of non-interference in the 
internal affairs of other countries.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  my  country,  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  and  the  members  of  the 
League of Arab States, I would like to thank the United 
Nations  for  the  efforts  it  has  made,  particularly  in 
convening this Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, aimed 
at  expressing  loyalty  and  appreciation  to  a  man  who 
was a role model of patience, tolerance and humanity, 
as well as fighting poverty and racism. He worked for 
the achievement of peace, security and development in 
his country and throughout the world.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Didier Reynders, 
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  and 
European Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium.
Mr.  Reynders  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  To 
celebrate  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  the  great  man 
Nelson  Mandela  means  taking  the  time  to  remember 
this simple truth: things always seem impossible, until 
they come true.
Pulling  a  country  out  of  50  years  of  a  despicable 
apartheid regime was the work of a lifetime. It would 
probably have been easier to give up, or to give in to 
anger  or  violence.  But  Nelson  Mandela  never  ceased 
to  believe  in  people,  in  their  capacity  for  humanity, 
dignity,  solidarity  and  mutual  respect.  His  struggle 
was  based  on  the  values  of  peace,  democracy  and 
reconciliation, which continue to inspire us on a daily 
basis.  The  legacy  of  Madiba  should  resonate  all  the 
more forcefully today, as our world is still prey to many 
violent  conflicts  and  too  many  people,  women  and 
children, experience war, exile and poverty.
Belgium  is  one  of  the  founding  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  and  also  of  the  European  Union.  Our 
modern  history  is  closely  linked  to  the  creation  of 
multilateral  institutions  born  after  the  Second  World 
War. For centuries, my country was Europe’s battlefield. 
But for the past 70 years, it has sat on an equal footing 
with 
institutions. 
Multilateralism  is  an  asset  of  our  generation.  In 
Belgium, it is now part of our political DNA.
its  neighbours 
in 
international 
Some  say  that  our  common  institutions  have 
become ineffective in solving the problems of our time. 
According  to  them,  multilateralism  has  become  an 
expression of our weakness. I do not subscribe to that 
view. Multilateralism is a form of wealth; indeed, it is 
a force. Multilateralism protects. It protects the weak, 
but it also protects the strong, because in our globalized 
world,  no  State  is  safe  from  the  upheavals  that  shake 
our planet. None of us by ourselves has the solution to 
our  challenges.  Multilateralism  is  the  possibility  of  a 
solution; it is an assurance that the rule of law prevails 
over the principle that “might is right”.
In  Belgium  we  became  multilateralists  out  of 
necessity. Today we are even more convinced. We are 
firmly  committed  to  those  principles,  and  it  is  with 
constant and determined commitment that we put them 
into practice in our foreign policy.
Our upcoming participation in the Security Council 
will  be  in  line  with  that  approach:  Belgium  will  be  a 
reliable  and  predictable  partner,  always  seeking  to 
promote  consensus,  without,  of  course,  giving  up  the 
values that we hold dear. Madiba said, “If you want to 
make  peace  with  your  enemy,  you  have  to  work  with 
your  enemy.  Then  he  becomes  your  partner”.  At  all 
times during its mandate, Belgium will promote mutual 
understanding  rather  than  punishment,  consultation 
rather than confrontation, the force of law rather than 
the right to use force.
Belgium  applauds  the  adoption  of  our  political 
declaration  (resolution  73/1)  today.  That  is  the  best 
response  that  our  community  could  provide  to  the 
temptations  of  national  withdrawal.  Our  declaration 
gives  us  the  strength  to  continue  our  efforts,  and  I 
pledge  to  the  General  Assembly  that  the  declaration 
will form a pillar of our diplomacy for years to come.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vivian 
Balakrishnan,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Singapore, who will speak on behalf of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Mr. Balakrishnan (Singapore): I have the honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  10  States  members  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
and,  of  course,  on  behalf  of  my  own  tiny  city-State, 
Singapore.
It  is  most  timely  that  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace 
Summit  has  been  convened  during  the  high-level 
32/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
week  of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly,  as 
we  commemorate  the  centenary  of  his  birth.  ASEAN 
endorses  the  political  declaration  adopted  at  the 
opening of the Peace Summit (resolution 73/1). Let me 
quote Mr. Mandela’s own words. He said:
“Action  without  vision  is  only  passing  time, 
vision  without  action  is  merely  daydreaming,  but 
vision with action can change the world.”
I  believe  that  all  of  us  can  agree  that  Mr.  Mandela 
transformed his country, but he also changed the world.
South-East Asia and South Africa are geographically 
very far apart, but that distance has in no way lessened 
the impact that Mr. Mandela has had on ASEAN, both 
on our individual member States and on its membership 
as  a  regional  grouping.  The  ideals  embodied  by 
Mr. Mandela — quiet dignity, extraordinary compassion 
and unflinching integrity — have inspired generations 
throughout our region.
Indeed,  South-East  Asia  shares  fond  memories  of 
Mr. Mandela. In 1997, he visited South-East Asia and, 
while in Singapore, met our founding Prime Minister, 
Mr.  Lee  Kuan  Yew,  and  delivered  the  Singapore 
Lecture. Mr. Mandela spoke of coming to our region to 
rekindle old times and old relationships, and he urged 
us to forge strong multilateral ties. While in Indonesia, 
he stressed the need for unity in diversity and observed 
that both South Africa and South-East Asia had much to 
learn from each other, especially how we view diverse 
peoples  and  cultures  as  a  source  of  strength  for  our 
communities and not as a source of division. More than 
two  decades  later,  Mr.  Mandela’s  message  continues 
to resonate.
Throughout his life, Mr. Mandela was a champion 
for peace and reconciliation. Those ideals continue to 
resonate  with  us.  Since  the  inception  of  ASEAN  in 
1967, we have worked to create a culture of dialogue, 
consensus  and  cooperation  in  order  to  support  our 
common effort to achieve sustainable development for 
the betterment of the lives of all our peoples. Through 
an  open,  inclusive,  ASEAN-led  regional  architecture, 
we have continued to engage all of the major countries 
in  order  to  maintain  peace,  stability  and  prosperity 
throughout South-East Asia.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  ASEAN’s  deep 
respect for his legacy — a legacy that has inspired, and 
continues to inspire, all of us in South-East Asia. We 
will do our best to emulate those ideals, to enhance our 
regional peace, security and prosperity, and to uphold 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Finally,  we  are  reminded  of  Mr.  Mandela’s 
wise words:
“What counts in life is not the mere fact that we 
have lived. It is what difference we have made to the 
lives of others that will determine the significance 
of the life we lead.”
Long may the memory of Mr. Mandela remain strong 
in us. Along with all people all around the world, we in 
South-East  Asia  will  not  forget  Mr.  Mandela  and  his 
profound contributions to the international community.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Taro  Kono, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan.
Mr. Kono (Japan): Mr. Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela 
was a man of conviction, a promoter of reconciliation 
and a beacon of hope for the future. One hundred years 
ago, in 1918, a tireless fighter, a man who would change 
history, was born. In the following month, the Japanese 
Consulate was established in Cape Town; it was Japan’s 
first  official  mission  on  the  African  continent.  More 
than  70  years  later,  Mr.  Mandela  was  at  a  reception 
hosted by Japan. It was his first appearance of that kind 
after his release in 1990.
Later that year, he was in Japan as the first African 
leader to address the Parliament of Japan. He stressed 
the  need  to  unite  not  only  South  Africa  but  also  the 
international  community  in  order  to  solve  the  many 
problems caused by apartheid through negotiations and 
support  the  efforts  by  the  people  of  South  Africa  by 
providing necessary resources. He once said,
“An  injury  to  one  is  an  injury  to  all  ...  None 
of  us  acting  alone  can  achieve  success  ...  We 
must therefore act together as a united people, for 
national reconciliation, for nation-building, for the 
birth of a new world”.
Mr. Mandela visited Japan three times. During those 
visits, he demonstrated strong interest in the history of 
Japan’s  development.  That  history  would  lead  to  the 
concept  of  human  security,  which  is  consistent  with 
Mr.  Mandela’s  convictions,  as  it  is  a  people-centred, 
comprehensive and preventive approach that empowers 
vulnerable individuals. We think about how much hope 
we placed in Mr. Mandela for our future. However, his 
will  and  deeds  indicate  that  it  is  in  us  that  he  placed 
18-29599
33/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
his  hope  for  the  future.  Japan  has  been  committed  to 
fulfilling the hope that Mr. Mandela placed in us.
Next  year,  Japan  will  host  the  seventh  meeting 
of  the  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African 
Development  (TICAD  7),  which  was 
initiated  a 
quarter-century  ago.  In  preparation,  Japan  launched 
discussions  with  former  African  Presidents  so  as 
to  gain  insights  into  peace,  security  and  stability  in 
Africa.  TICAD  7  will  offer  another  important  venue 
to promote peacebuilding based on African ownership 
and  a  broad  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  and 
other international bodies.
Now,  100  years  after  Mr.  Mandela’s  birth  and 
following  the  more  than  70  years  since  the  founding 
of the United Nations, we need to act more quickly and 
effectively for the benefit of all. To that end, the United 
Nations,  including  the  Security  Council,  needs  to  be 
reformed, and Japan supports the Secretary-General’s 
initiative to rebalance United Nations peace activities 
away from merely “reacting” towards “preventing”.
the 
Together  with 
international  community, 
especially Africa, Japan will steadily continue to take 
steps toward making the world a better place, following 
the  path  that  Mr.  Mandela  walked,  which  has  now 
been passed on to each one of us. We will never forget 
Mr. Mandela’s words. “It always seems impossible until 
it is done.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josep  Borrell 
Fontelles, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation 
of the Kingdom of Spain.
Mr. Borrell Fontelles (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 
It is a singular honour for me to be here today at this 
Summit  to  commemorate  the  centenary  of  the  great 
man that was Nelson Mandela, Madiba. On the 100th 
anniversary of his birth, we welcome this occasion to 
take stock of his legacy. To speak of him is to speak of 
hope,  virtue,  generosity  and  reconciliation.  He  taught 
us many things, including that to be free is to live in a 
way that respects and enhances the freedom of others. 
His  legacy  needs  to  be  remembered  today  to  give  it 
new life.
The  political  declaration  that  the  193  States 
adopted  today  in  the  General  Assembly  (resolution 
73/1)  shows  that  we  are  convinced  and  determined  to 
fulfil  that  legacy,  which  places  human  dignity  at  the 
centre of our action. It is necessary to do so, as injustice 
and inequality persist. It seems that economic growth 
benefits only those who have the most. We are living 
through an identity crisis, which has made it difficult 
for us to remember who we are and that our traditions 
are threatened by globalization.
Madiba  would  have  responded  to  such  fears  by 
restoring  optimism,  because  when  he  was  born,  a 
war  had  ravaged  the  European  continent,  and,  later, 
after another devastating war, the United Nations, the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  the  Geneva 
Conventions  and  the  rules  of  world  trade  were  born, 
all with the aim of ensuring that human beings possess 
equal dignity and are free from fear and misery.
Then  we  saw  the  1990s  and  following  decades, 
where  great  strides  were  made  —  the  International 
Criminal Court, the 2005 World Summit, the collective 
responsibility  to  protect,  new  advances  in  education, 
in  gender  equality,  in  access  to  water,  education  and 
health,  and  in  the  fight  against  discrimination.  But 
there  certainly  remains  a  long  way  to  go,  and  that  is 
what we reaffirm today in our commitment embodied 
in  today’s  political  declaration.  Yes,  there  are  still 
enormous challenges. As Madiba told us:
“After climbing a great hill, one only finds that 
there are many more hills to climb.”
The line of the horizon always seems to move away 
from us and behind each peak there seems to be another. 
To  the  sceptics,  to  those  who  are  discouraged  today, 
I  can  certainly  draw  their  attention  to  a  few  things, 
namely, the Paris Conference on  Climate Change; the 
historic march for women’s equality, which flooded the 
streets of half the world, including in my country; and 
the  global  pacts  on  migration  and  refugees.  We  must 
continue along this path, and we applaud the decision 
to  celebrate  the  centenary  of  Mandela’s  birth  as  an 
incentive for working together, an injection of optimism 
and a gesture of recognition for the immense value of 
his legacy.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the floor to Her Excellency Ms. Harriett Baldwin, 
Minister  of  State  at  the  Foreign  and  Commonwealth 
Office  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland.
Ms.  Baldwin  (United  Kingdom):  Today  we  mark 
100 years since the birth of an individual whose name 
has  become  the  byword  for  courage,  compassion  and 
moral strength. Nelson Mandela was a titan of our age, 
34/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
a symbol of hope, a true hero of the twentieth century. 
His legacy continues to resonate with those fighting for 
a better, fairer, more equal world.
I am delighted to offer the United Kingdom’s full 
support  for  today’s  political  declaration  (resolution 
73/1), as well as our appreciation for Nelson Mandela’s 
achievements  and  our  commitment  to  advancing  the 
issues that he was so passionate about. Nelson Mandela 
spoke  many  times  about  the  dehumanizing  effect 
of  poverty  and  the  suffering  of  children  deprived  of 
adequate  food,  health  care  or  education.  He  spoke  of 
others deprived of their childhoods by conflict, and he 
reminded  us  that,  under  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human Rights, every person is entitled to equal rights 
and freedoms without distinction of any kind. He said 
that none of us should be satisfied or at peace if others 
were struggling for their very survival. He challenged 
us to work together and to do better.
This  week,  as  we  come  together  for  the  opening 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session, 
we  have  an  opportunity  through  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and 
the  Secretary-
General’s  sustaining  peace  agenda  to  rise  to  Nelson 
Mandela’s  challenge.  Together,  we  must  do  more  to 
prevent  conflict,  end  poverty  and  protect  the  planet, 
so  that  people  everywhere  can  enjoy  peace,  security 
and  prosperity.  The  United  Kingdom  restates  our 
commitment to the 2030 Agenda, to sustaining peace 
and  to  promoting  education  for  the  131  million  girls 
worldwide who are missing out on school.
took 
(Gambia),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Tangara 
the Chair.
Nelson Mandela once said that “courage [is] not the 
absence of fear, but the triumph over it”. Today, let us be 
inspired by his courage, his wisdom and his resilience. 
Let us work together in his name for peace, for human 
rights and for equality. Let us rise to his challenge and 
use his legacy to make the world a better place.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Orlando 
Hernández  Alvarado,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Honduras.
President  Hernández  Alvarado 
in 
Spanish): Today we applaud the General Assembly for 
recognizing  and  extol  that    extraordinary  leader  and 
bulwark of freedom and world peace, Nelson Mandela. 
However, I cannot fail to call for us, today and for the 
(spoke 
rest  of  this  summit,  not  just  to  remember  him,  as  he 
deserves, or to commemorate that great human being, 
but  to  truly  honour  his  memory  by  following  in  his 
footsteps  and,  as  he  said  so  well,  by  beginning  to  do 
what  seems  impossible  today.  We  cannot  continue 
to  have  meetings,  tracing  the  routes  of  what  will,  no 
doubt,  lead  us  to  build  a  fairer,  more  prosperous  and 
freer world, without really taking the necessary steps 
and  fulfilling  the  corresponding  actions  that  would 
turn his dream into reality. In short, we need concrete 
actions that produce results.
Nelson  Mandela  has  been  an  example  to  follow 
in my country, which has in recent years experienced 
political  and  social  situations  in  which  we  have  been 
called to enter into dialogue and show understanding, 
respect, forgiveness and reconciliation. It is not a simple 
task  because,  as  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  winner  put  it, 
“It  is  so  easy  to  break  down  and  destroy.  The  heroes 
are  those  who  make  peace  and  build”.  In  that  sense, 
Honduras  recognizes  that  a  country  at  peace  is  only 
possible with more and better opportunities for all, with 
better standards of living and higher levels of dignity 
for each person. That is why we have worked tirelessly 
to  reduce  the  rates  of  violence  and  multidimensional 
poverty in our country.
Honduras has taken significant steps to strengthen 
the prevention of violence. It is clear that we still lack 
a  great  deal  of  what  our  citizens  need.  We  have  been 
mobilizing  investment  like  never  before  in  what  are 
to  become  the  solid  bases  of  a  new  system  of  quality 
education and health. To give just one example, 40 per 
cent of the resources previously allocated to security as a 
special budget item will today become the fundamental 
basis for the prevention of violence, as these resources 
will be invested in quality education, keeping in mind 
that  people  are  not  free  and  will  never  enjoy  peace 
without access to quality services.
On  20  August  2018,  in  Honduras,  we  created  a 
special commission for transforming the health system, 
whose members we have entrusted to work to achieve 
such  early  victories  as  the  provision  of  100  per  cent 
of  supplies  and  medicines  in  hospitals,  as  well  as  the 
reduction of surgical delays and the time people have to 
wait for medical appointments. On 19 September 2018, 
we also took a historic step by forming a commission 
for  world-class  quality  education  to  transform  the 
educational model, but with the participation of various 
sectors  of  society,  with  the  objective  of  providing  an 
education that is valid and competitive.
18-29599
35/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
In  the  fight  against  organized  crime,  which  is  a 
priority for our Government, it has become clear that 
the  role  played  by  criminal  groups  such  as  adult  and 
youth  gangs  puts  constraints  on  the  State’s  efforts 
aimed at sustainable development. Above all, they have 
been the protagonists of the greatest tragedy in terms of 
the loss of human lives in the history of our Republic.
That  is  why  I  never  tire  of  emphasizing  this 
issue,  and  I  take  this  opportunity  to  ask  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  United  Nations  itself  to  recognize 
that, in the case of Honduras, gangs are also violating 
the  fundamental  rights  of  individuals.  If  that  is  not 
recognized,  the  international  community  would  fail 
to  understand  a  fundamental  part  of  the  problem  that 
not only Honduras but also many other countries in the 
Central  American  region  are  facing.  For  that  reason, 
we have requested the support of the United Nations to 
adopt  a  draft  resolution  recognizing  and  condemning 
such  groups  as  armed  non-State  actors,  and  thereby 
promote international cooperation to combat them. To 
that end, we ask for the support of the United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime, and, at the same time, we 
ask  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights in Tegucigalpa to take on the problem.
In  that  regard,  I  cannot  hold  back  my  frustration 
when we meet in forums such as this one and express 
our  most  sincere  desire  to  work  together  as  teams  in 
peacebuilding,  but  we  lack  the  will  and  courage  to 
make it a reality, to turn that desire into concrete results 
that  will  have  an  impact  on  the  lives  of  our  peoples. 
That same will and courage characterized and has led 
us  today  to  remember  Nelson  Mandela  as  one  of  the 
greatest heroes of our history. Mandela mobilized the 
world and got it to recognize the problem in his country 
that his people were experiencing, and that is where the 
solution to the problem began.
That is why I now call on the United Nations to adopt, 
on our path towards the fulfilment of the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development, 
the  aforementioned 
draft  resolution  and  recognize  that  the  various  gangs 
in  Honduras  are  increasingly  attacking  freedoms, 
democracy, peace and, above all, the fundamental right 
to life of our peoples. Likewise, we call on developed 
countries  to  allocate  more  resources  to  cooperation 
and  the  transfer  of  knowledge  and  technologies  to 
developing  countries,  resources  other  than  earmarked 
for financing wars and preventing irregular migrations, 
because  the  latter  could  be  translated  into  resources 
earmarked  to  help  eradicate  violence,  promote  peace, 
invest 
the  environment  and 
conserve 
in  general 
economic growth, which is the way to radically attack 
the root causes of such problems as irregular migration. 
No citizen in the world is going to emigrate from his or 
her country if that country is peaceful and prosperous 
and offers opportunities.
Throughout  this  day  we  have  listened  and  will 
continue to listen to the wise words of Nelson Mandela, 
and many of us will repeat the famous quotes that have 
urged the world to forgive, love and build. However, I 
would  like  to  close  my  address  with  a  quotation  that 
is  little  known  but  that  is  undoubtedly  very  relevant 
today. Madiba said,
“It is never my custom to use words lightly. If 
27 years in prison have done anything to us, it was 
to use the silence of solitude to make us understand 
how precious words are and how real speech is in 
its impact on the way people live and die.”
Let us not take lightly the words we have spoken 
and heard today and we will continue to hear. Let us not 
allow the words that make up the political declaration 
that we adopted today (resolution 73/1) to remain mere 
words on paper. Our peoples are troubled and frustrated, 
and rightly so. Let us give those words the weight they 
deserve, and let us live up to them with genuine resolve 
and courage in order to change the course of our history. 
It is in our hands whether people live or die, depending 
on how we use our words.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nasser  Bourita, 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Minister 
International 
Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr.  Bourita  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  His 
Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  has  requested  me  to 
read  out  this  royal  message  at  this  summit  meeting 
honouring Nelson Mandela:
“The late Nelson Mandela embodies above all 
such  values  as  tolerance  and  humility.  The  world 
thinks  highly  and  fondly  of  him  because  of  his 
struggles. The world admires him for his strength 
of  character,  his  concern  for  vulnerable  people 
and his fight, which he waged throughout his life, 
against discrimination and inequality.
“Madiba  undoubtedly  had  an 
important 
Moroccan  chapter  in  his  rich  life.  He  nourished 
sincere  affection  for  my  late  father,  His  Majesty 
King Hassan II — may he rest in peace — whom he 
36/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
held in high esteem. That affection was mutual. It 
stemmed from the unconditional support provided 
by Morocco to African liberation movements. That 
was  a  constant  factor  during  the  reign  of  my  late 
grandfather, His Majesty King Mohammed V, and of 
my late father, His Majesty King Hassan II. Both of 
them welcomed all African liberation movements. 
When they sought help and support, they used the 
Kingdom as a military and political base.
“Between  1960  and  1962,  Mandela 
lived 
in  Morocco,  where  he  received  the  Kingdom’s 
support in his legitimate struggle. That continuous 
and  multiform  support  during 
the  years  of 
struggle  in  South  African  included  the  training 
of  African  National  Congress  (ANC)  members  in 
the  Oujda  region,  the  provision  of  logistical  and 
military  assistance  to  the  ANC,  and  support  for 
the  diplomatic  activities  led  by  Nelson  Mandela’s 
movement abroad.
“In  reviewing  those  historical  facts,  we  do 
not wish simply to remind everyone of Morocco’s 
leading role in supporting Mandela but, rather, to 
underscore the convergence of our two courses of 
history  and  the  sense  of  a  common  commitment 
that  ought  to  continue  today.  In  appreciation  of 
that  precious  assistance,  Nelson  Mandela  made 
it  a  point  to  come  to  Morocco  in  November  1994 
to  demonstrate  his  unflinching  solidarity  with 
the  people  of  Morocco.  On  that  occasion,  he  was 
decorated by His late Majesty King Hassan II — may 
he  rest  in  peace  —  with  the  highest  distinction 
in  recognition  of  the  exceptional  struggle  he  had 
waged for equality and justice.
“Nelson  Mandela  embodied  not  only 
the 
struggle  of  an  entire  people,  but  also  that  of  an 
entire  continent:  our  Africa.  He  was  an  advocate 
for  the  principles  of  equity,  probity  and  universal 
morality.  He  belonged  to  the  category  of  African 
leaders  who  were  committed  to  humanist  values 
and lofty principles.
“His  stance  on  the  preservation  of  national 
sovereignty earned him the status of champion of 
peace and understanding between nations — a stance 
far  removed  from  the  vicissitudes,  uncertainties 
and  calculations  of  harmful  divisions.  To  those 
who  advocated  separatism,  Mandela  responded 
by  championing  unity,  for  he  understood  that  our 
continent’s  future  development  hinged  on  the 
territorial integrity of its States.
“Mandela,  as  a  politician,  was  always 
characterized by sound thinking and judgments; his 
major decisions were never made hastily. Without 
a doubt, he incarnated a school of wisdom that his 
successors should now continue. The values that he 
embodied  with  unwavering  courage  are  the  very 
same ones to which we firmly adhere in Morocco. 
They are the guiding principles and vectors of my 
country’s political and civic action in the Kingdom, 
across Africa and around our world.
indisputably 
“With his complete humility, he was a universal 
figure  —  larger  than  life  —  who  embodied  a 
particular vision of the world. That extraordinary 
man  belongs 
to  a  category  of 
universal people whose destiny has local, national, 
continental  and  global 
implications.  Mandela 
belongs to all of us. He had a vision and values that 
we must uphold. He called upon us to transcend our 
divisions, whether political or economic.
“To  grapple  with  the  scourge  of  racism, 
he  advocated  liberation;  to  tackle  partition,  he 
championed  unity;  and  to  ward  off  the  perils  of 
fragmentation  and  marginalization,  he  opted  for 
unification. He was a relentless advocate of progress 
and  prosperity,  instead  of  underdevelopment  and 
isolation. Those are the virtues that he was keen to 
share in his Nobel Peace Prize acceptance speech. 
They  represent  the  quintessence  of  his  action  in 
today’s world.
“We  find  his  absence  so  unbearable  that  we 
prefer to celebrate his birth — one of those births 
that  are  honoured  worldwide.  Another  birth  that 
humankind owes to Africa.”
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Dato’  Saifuddin  Abdullah,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Malaysia.
Mr.  Abdullah  (Malaysia):  Malaysia  joins  other 
speakers  in  commending  the  President  for  convening 
this landmark Nelson Mandela Peace Summit.
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
by  the  representative  of  Singapore  on  behalf  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  and  the 
statement  to  be  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Venezuela on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.
18-29599
37/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
We  commend  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
South  Africa  and  Ireland  for  facilitating  the  political 
declaration  that  was  adopted  this  morning  (resolution 
73/1).  The  comprehensive,  transparent  and  inclusive 
approach  taken  by  the  co-facilitators,  as  well  as 
the  flexibility  shown  by  all  delegations  during  the 
negotiations, surely befit the legacy of a great man for 
whom we are all gathered here today in commemoration.
the  political  declaration 
honouring the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela. 
We  remember  him  for  his  struggle  and  personal 
sacrifice in championing human rights for his people. 
We remember him for striving for global peace. It may 
not be overzealous to say that the world is also indebted 
to Mr. Mandela for his contribution to the struggle for 
democracy worldwide and the promotion of the culture 
of peace throughout the world.
Malaysia  welcomes 
We  therefore  join  other  Member  States  in  paying 
tribute 
to  Madiba  for  his  qualities  of  humility, 
forgiveness and compassion; his values and dedication 
to  the  service  of  humankind;  and  the  dignified  role 
he  played  as  a  humanitarian  in  the  fields  of  conflict 
resolution  and 
race 
relations,  gender  equality  and  the  rights  of  children 
and other vulnerable groups. This Peace Summit also 
offers us the opportunity to revive the values for which 
Nelson Mandela stood.
reconciliation,  disarmament, 
In order for us to ensure lasting peace and prevent 
conflicts  around  the  globe,  Malaysia  believes  that  we 
should shift our focus to how we think about conflicts 
and  how  we  address  and  solve  them.  Sustaining 
peace initiatives must be built on a more coordinated, 
integrated  and  inclusive  system-wide  approach  by 
all  stakeholders,  particularly  United  Nations  bodies, 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  and  civil-
society  organizations,  including  the  participation  of 
women  and  youth.  We  are  also  of  the  view  that  both 
sustaining peace efforts and the promotion of a culture 
of peace must be in line with the implementation of the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  for  example  leaving  no 
one behind.
In  addition,  Malaysia  continues  to  reiterate  the 
importance of addressing the root causes of conflicts; 
respecting  national 
territorial 
integrity;  confronting  oppression;  promoting  good 
governance  and  the  rule  of  law;  eradicating  poverty; 
promoting sustained economic growth; and improving 
sovereignty 
and 
intercultural  understanding  on  the  basis  of  mutual 
respect and acceptance.
When  Nelson  Mandela  first  visited  Malaysia  in 
1990,  he  was  keen  to  hear  about  our  experiences  in 
nation-building.  Our  country  has  recently  concluded 
its  fourteenth  general  elections,  where,  just  as  in 
the  historic  South  African  elections  in  1994,  a  new 
Government has been empowered through the voice of 
the people.
Let  me  conclude  by  calling  on  all  present  here 
today to live up to Mandela’s spirit by committing to the 
noble cause of peace, with the courage, determination 
and will for which we all remember him.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Péter  Szijjártó,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of Hungary.
Mr. Szijjártó (Hungary): We appreciate the efforts 
put  forth  to  convene  this  very  important  landmark 
meeting,  especially  under  the  current  circumstances 
when a new world order is under construction. The new 
world order seeks essentially to oppose the new security 
threats  to  the  entire  world.  I  think  that  at  a  summit 
named after Nelson Mandela it is appropriate to speak 
about those new types of threats and their existence in 
areas of the world that have been considered supposedly 
safe  in  recent  times.  I  would  like  to  mention  three 
factors that endanger international peace and stability.
First, there are massive flows of illegal migration, 
which  the  whole  world  has  experienced  recently, 
especially in Europe. We understand that  uncontrolled 
massive  flows  of  people  offer  terrorist  organizations 
the opportunity to disperse their activists and terrorists 
throughout the world, thereby spreading the terror threat 
of  terror  worldwide,  including  in  places  previously 
untouched by that phenomenon, such as Europe.
That is why I believe that we must pool our efforts 
to tackle the root causes of illegal migration. We must 
stop  the  promotion  of  the  violation  of  borders  and 
provide the necessary assistance on the issue so that such 
problems are not imported into places where they had 
never existed before. We must reject any approach that 
suggests that migration is a fundamental human right, 
because that is not in line with international conventions.
Secondly,  I  would  like  to  address  the  issue  of  
national  minorities  worldwide.  All  of  us,  within  the 
United  Nations,  must  make  clear  that  the  rights  of 
national  minorities  must  be  respected  —  a  duty  that 
38/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
falls to the United Nations. We have to make sure that 
there are consequences to bear whenever the rights of 
national  minorities  are  violated.  At  such  a  summit,  I 
believe  that  it  is  appropriate  to  say  that  we  must  see 
national minorities as sources of strength, cooperation 
and friendship between nations, and we must reject all 
approaches that suggest that they are a source of tension.
Thirdly, we must raise our voice in support of those 
religious groups all around the world that are suffering 
at the hands of regimes that do not take seriously the 
freedom  of  religion.  We  must  speak  up  for  Christian 
communities  globally,  since  Christianity  has  become 
the most persecuted religion on Earth — something to 
which  we  must  not  turn  a  blind  eye.  We  must  put  an 
end to hypocrisy and political correctness. We must pay 
due  attention  to  the  issue  of  the  destiny  of  Christian 
communities all over the world. At the United Nations, 
we  have  the  obligation  to  provide  legal  and  security 
guarantees  to  Christian  communities  worldwide  for 
their return to the homes they have fled in places where 
they had lived for centuries, or even for a millennium.
That  is  why  we  hope  that  the  General  Assembly 
will seriously take that into consideration and address 
the issue of persecuted Christians in the Middle East. 
We really hope that the General Assembly will espouse 
the  view  that  religious  and  national  minorities  are  a 
source  of  peace,  stability  and  friendship,  rather  than 
of tension.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Sheikh  Mohammed  bin  Abdulrahman  bin 
Jassim Al-Thani, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar.
Sheikh Al-Thani (Qatar) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like to express our appreciation for the convening of the 
Nelson Mandela Peace Summit to honour a hero who 
devoted his life to common human values. Today, that 
is what our world needs more than ever before. While 
the Summit is an opportunity to reflect upon the legacy 
of  Nelson  Mandela,  what  is  said  here  also  issues  a 
message that reminds us of our responsibility not only 
as Member States but also as partners with shared values 
and a common destiny. That requires us to cooperate so 
as  to  achieve  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  in  line 
with  the  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela.  Nelson  Mandela 
shouldered  the  sufferings  of  his  people,  and  he  was 
always  a  hero  for  the  most  vulnerable  segments  of 
society. Accordingly, he became a symbol of freedom, 
justice, equality, human rights and peace.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  promotion 
and  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  can  benefit 
from Nelson Mandela’s legacy only if we learn from the 
lessons he taught and assign priority to the lofty values 
that he defended, as well as renew our commitment to 
human  rights  and  development  for  all.  We  must  also 
prevent  and  peacefully  resolve  conflicts  and  achieve 
sustainable development.
Peace,  for  Nelson  Mandela,  was  not  only  the 
absence  of  fighting  but  also  an  environment  where 
everyone  prospers,  regardless  of  race,  colour  or 
beliefs.  Those  differences  are  elements  that  enrich 
humankind.  Our  diversity  is  a  source  of  power  and 
cannot  cause  divisions.  We  can  achieve  a  lot  through 
our common humanity.
As  part  of  our  joint  efforts  to  achieve  peace  and 
end  violations  of  international  law,  we  must  recall 
Nelson  Mandela’s  affirmation  of  the  United  Nations 
role  as  a  peacemaker  in  conflict  resolution  and  its 
role in implementing measures to overcome threats to 
peace.  He  believed  in  our  ability  to  change  the  world 
and  make  it  a  better  place  in  which  we  are  confident 
that we, as the international community, are capable of 
achieving the objectives of the United Nations — at the 
forefront of which are peace, human rights and respect 
for international law.
Nelson  Mandela  fought  against  injustice  through 
his  persistent  belief  in  the  rule  of  law  and  human 
dignity, and he was able to impose a common respect 
for  such  human  values.  He  enjoyed  the  respect  of  his 
people and the world. He is a light for everyone to learn 
from, particularly those who violate international law. 
History will not forget the violators and perpetrators of 
crime. Nelson Mandela will remain a shining light and 
a force for justice, equality and peace.
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now hear an address by Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina, 
Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh.
Sheikh Hasina (Bangladesh): I thank the President 
for  convening  this  Peace  Summit  on  the  occasion  of 
the 100th anniversary of the birth of Nelson Mandela. 
Nelson Mandela began his political life as a leader of his 
people in their fight against apartheid in South Africa. 
Later, with his sacrifice, dedication and compassion for 
people, he became the undisputed leader of humankind, 
with peace, freedom and unity as his lifelong mantra.
18-29599
39/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Peace is no longer simply the absence of war. In his 
definition of peace, Bangladesh’s Father of the Nation, 
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, standing before 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  twenty-ninth  session  in 
1974, stated
“Our  total  commitment  to  peace  is  born  of  the 
realization  that  only  an  environment  of  peace 
would  enable  us  to...  mobilize  and  concentrate 
all  our  energies  and  resources  in  combating  the 
scourges of poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy and 
unemployment.” (A/PV.2243, para. 12)
The vision of Bangabandhu to establish peace has 
guided us all along. We believe and practice friendship 
to all and malice towards none. We attach the highest 
priority to peace and development. Our investment in 
poverty  alleviation,  public  health  and  education  have 
enabled us to ensure the well-being of our people and 
reduce  inequality.  We  have  created  opportunities  for 
individuals using innovative means and have therefore 
established peace through socioeconomic development.
Our  peacekeepers  are  saving  lives  and  protecting 
peace  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  We  are  working 
with the international community in sustaining peace 
through  conflict  prevention,  development  and  the 
promotion of human rights. Bangladesh has introduced 
the culture of the peaceful resolution of conflicts into 
the General Assembly.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
encompasses all aspects of human development — from 
hunger to inequality. However, peace continues to elude 
us.  Conflicts  remain  a  formidable  challenge  today. 
Human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  which 
leaders  like  Mandela  fought  for,  have  yet  to  be  truly 
realized. People in many parts of the world suffer from 
hunger and malnourishment. On the other hand, racism, 
populism  and  intolerance  are  on  the  rise.  People  face 
discrimination, forced displacement, torture and even 
genocide because of their ethnic and religious identity. 
In my own country, more than 1 million Rohingya have 
taken shelter to evade the atrocities in Myanmar.
Like Nelson Mandela, in 1971 Bangabandhu Sheikh 
Mujibur Rahman led us to liberate the Bengali nation 
from  the  oppressors.  They  both  spent  major  parts  of 
their lives in prison, fighting for the freedom of their 
people. Bangabandhu was sent to jail time and again for 
standing up for the freedom of people. While in prison, 
he  wrote  diaries,  which  have  now  been  published  as 
The  Unfinished  Memoirs  and  Prison  Diary,  in  which 
he recorded his struggle for peace for his people. Under 
his leadership, we achieved Bangladesh.
As  a  tribute  to  the  great  leader  Nelson  Mandela, 
we  are  delighted  to  endorse  the  political  declaration 
adopted  at  this  Summit  (resolution  73/1)  to  establish 
global peace.
To achieve our target for a peaceful future, we must 
commit to the following steps. First, we must settle all 
international  disputes  through  peaceful  means  and 
prevent  conflict  in  all  circumstances.  Secondly,  we 
must strengthen cooperation to achieve the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Thirdly,  we  must  promote 
tolerance, preserve diversity and protect religious and 
ethnic minorities from discrimination and exploitation. 
Fourthly, we must fight terrorism by stopping the flow 
of financing to terrorists, as well as the supply of arms 
to terrorists and their outfits. Fifthly, we must promote 
and  protect  human  rights  in  all  circumstances  and 
nurture a culture of peace and non-violence.
Let me conclude by recalling Mandela’s words:
 “As long as poverty, injustice and gross inequality 
persist in our world, none of us can truly rest”. 
Let us work together to achieve his dream.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Julius  Maada 
Bio, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone.
President Bio: Today the Republic of Sierra Leone 
joins the States Members of the United Nations at this 
historic  Summit  to  honour  and  celebrate  the  memory 
and  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela.  This  year  marks  the 
centenary  of  the  birth  of  Nelson  Mandela.  He  was 
an  African  icon,  but  he  belonged  to  the  world.  It  is 
therefore most appropriate to celebrate and reflect, as 
we are now doing, on his life and times to promote his 
legacy at this Summit.
The Sierra Leone delegation is here today to declare 
that we salute all the values and principles that Nelson 
Mandela embodied and upheld. He left us his colossal 
presence and the indelible imprint of his words, such as:
“It is so easy to break down and destroy. The heroes 
are those who make peace and build.”
“You  can  start  changing  our  world  for  the  better 
daily, no matter how small the action.”
“What  counts  in  life  is  not  the  mere  fact  that  we 
have lived. It is what difference we have made in the 
40/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
lives of others that will determine the significance 
of the life we lead.”
Nelson  Mandela  was  consistent  and  resilient.  His 
was a fight for a just, peaceful, prosperous, democratic, 
fair,  equitable  and  inclusive  world.  His  promotion 
of  peace,  conflict  prevention,  reconciliation,  unity, 
non-discrimination  and  the  protection  and  promotion 
of  human  rights  all  give  us  reason  to  reflect.  Are  we 
living his legacy?
I implore all of us to leave this Hall today with a 
determination  to  uphold  all  the  principles  enshrined 
in  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  political  declaration 
we  adopted  (resolution  73/1).  We,  the  Sierra  Leone 
delegation,  reiterate  our  unwavering  support  for  the 
Secretary-General’s  renewed  focus  on  preventing 
conflicts  and  sustaining  peace,  and  his  establishment 
of the High-level Advisory Board for Mediation. That, 
we  believe,  will  foster  a  culture  of  dialogue  that  will 
ultimately  lead  to  the  prevention  of  conflicts  around 
the world.
Sierra  Leone  is  already  a  strong  supporter  of 
and  contributor  to  initiatives  such  as  the  Pathfinders 
for  Peaceful,  Just  and  Inclusive  Societies;  the  Global 
Alliance for Reporting Progress on Peaceful, Just and 
Inclusive  Societies;  and  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 16+ Forum. All of those are clear manifestations 
of our respect for the principles and values outlined in 
the declaration.
Today  our  nation  is  at  peace,  which  has  been  a 
long  journey.  Our  nation’s  recent  history  has  been 
forged from the embers of war and national epidemics. 
But like President Nelson Mandela, we have fashioned, 
out of the embers of bloody war and conflict and with 
the help of the world, a stable, peaceful and inclusive 
democracy.  We  have  emerged  much  stronger  each 
time  that  war,  disease  and  natural  disasters  have 
threatened our very existence as a nation. Our peaceful 
democracy is testament to the power of our will and the 
magnanimity  of  the  world.  We  have  celebrated  three 
peaceful political transitions and seamless transfers of 
political power.
The  new  direction  of  my  Government  is  focused 
on  building  a  just,  peaceful,  inclusive  and  fair  Sierra 
Leone.  Our  nation  is  at  peace.  My  Government  will 
continue  to  open  up  democratic  spaces  and  promote 
national  conversations  on  consolidating  peace  in  our 
nation. My Government will soon launch a presidential 
initiative  that  will  convene  a  national  conference  on 
peacebuilding, diversity management and the rebuilding 
of  national  cohesion.  As  President  Mandela  showed 
us,  we  should  get  together,  talk  to  one  another,  listen 
to  one  another  and  continue  to  consolidate  the  peace 
our  nation  enjoys.  We  will  work  with  our  Parliament 
to establish an independent commission for peace and 
national cohesion.
Sierra  Leone  believes  that  Madiba  Mandela’s 
legacy to all of us is great. It belongs to every one of 
us who is working for social justice, inclusion, peaceful 
coexistence  and  equality  in  Africa,  Europe,  Asia,  the 
Americas and Australia. His legacy demonstrates that 
we  should  be  bold  and  resolute  and  persevere  in  the 
struggle for peace, justice and inclusion. Only then can 
we fashion a future based on humanity.
Finally,  let  me  end  by  saying  that  Sierra  Leone 
recognizes  and  will  continue  to  promote  President 
Nelson Mandela’s legacy. Sierra Leone therefore joins 
the consensus on today’s declaration because we believe 
in the values and principles enshrined in it.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Aloysio  Nunes,  Minister  for  External 
Relations of the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Mr.  Nunes  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, I would like to express my thanks to my South 
African colleague for having proposed this conference 
to mark the centenary of the birth of Nelson Mandela. 
Mandela’s  legacy  inspires  us  and  brings  us  together, 
wherever  we  are  across  the  world,  and  Brazil  is  no 
exception. We had the honour in recent days to host an 
exhibition  on  the  life  of  Mandela  at  Brazil’s  External 
Relations headquarters in Brasilia, with the help of the 
Apartheid Museum. The exhibition bears witness to the 
life  of  Mandela  —  a  life  that  was  entirely  devoted  to 
affirming human dignity in South Africa and beyond.
The commemoration of the life of Nelson Mandela 
enables us to reiterate the fact that peace can be built 
only  through  dialogue  and  that  it  is  possible  to  have 
dialogue  thanks  to  our  common  humanity.  The  path 
is  sometimes  long,  but  resorting  to  violence  cannot 
replace dialogue. South Africa, when it emerged from 
apartheid,  was  a  deeply  wounded  society  because  of 
its  divisions  and  the  lack  of  links  among  the  various 
groups that composed it. Mandela himself had been a 
victim of the cruelties imposed by that odious regime. 
He called upon his people to change that reality in order 
to  make  reconciliation  possible.  His  dream  brought 
18-29599
41/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
together  South  Africans  around  a  collective  project 
based on democracy, human rights and development.
to 
Nelson Mandela was the founding father of a great 
nation. In him one can also see the classical character of 
a man at the helm of the universal mission of peace. We 
can learn lessons from his efforts, which can guide us 
in facing the reality of our time. The peaceful tradition 
of my country, Brazil, enables us to make an important 
contribution 
international  peace  and  security. 
Brazil is proud to have been involved in the dialogue 
on  peacebuilding  that  was  led  by  the  Secretary-
General.  We  support  the  integrated  strategies  aimed 
at the prevention and resolution of conflict, as well as 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  We  are  also  of  the 
view that international peace and security, development 
and human rights are closely intertwined and mutually 
reinforcing,  without  confusing  the  role  and  capacities 
of the pillars of the United Nations.
The declaration that we adopted today (resolution 
73/1) reaffirms the primacy of dialogue as the only way 
to build sustainable peace. The declaration also renews 
our conviction of the value of the peaceful settlement 
of  conflicts,  as  well  as  disarmament  with  a  view  to 
achieving the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. 
If  we  are  to  honour  the  memory  of  Nelson  Mandela, 
we  must  remain  fully  committed  to  peace,  despite 
the  difficulties  that  we  face  along  the  way.  Mandela 
challenged the simple opposition between realism and 
idealism.  He  said  that  things  always  seem  impossible 
until they are done. It is that spirit that we must keep in 
mind as a source of inspiration.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele 
Malielegaoi, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): Today we come together 
as  leaders  and  representatives  of  nations  united  by  a 
common cause, namely, to celebrate and remember the 
legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela  —  a  truly  selfless  leader, 
whose 
life  personified  humility  and  forgiveness, 
and  was  underpinned  by  a  dedication  to  service  for 
humankind and the promotion of peace.
Our Summit is timely. It sends us all a resounding 
message  that  peace  and  harmony  remain  elusive.  The 
world  we  live  in  is  a  war-torn  tapestry  of  conflict-
ridden  countries;  regions  battered  by  climate  change 
and  marked  by  natural  disasters,  suffering  from 
unshakeable poverty, discrimination and intolerance of 
diversity.  Our  efforts  to  achieve  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  will  be  an  insurmountable 
task — even with the best of will and intentions — if 
we do not commit ourselves to resolving these conflicts 
and create conditions conducive to sustaining peace.
As  leaders,  our  ultimate  goal  and  responsibility 
are the promotion of a peaceful and prosperous world, 
coexisting without fear of being different or suffering 
as a consequence of such differences. These aspirations 
are enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations — our 
Organization,  whose  primary  purpose  is  to  maintain 
international peace and security. These aspirations are 
woven into our 2030 Agenda. Sustainable Development 
Goal 16 requires us to promote peaceful and inclusive 
societies  for  sustainable  development.  This  noble  aim 
was  long  recognized,  as  reaffirmed  in  the  purposes 
and principles of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights, which marks its seventieth anniversary this year.
Living together in peace is about bridging gender 
inequality, and I highlight the important role of women, 
youth and children as agents of peace, recognizing their 
significant  contributions  to  sustainable  development 
and  peace.  Peace  starts  at  home,  and  women  must  be 
free from gender-based violence. As wives, mothers and 
sisters, women play an indispensable role in teaching, 
nurturing and inculcating the values of peace at home.
inseparable  and 
indivisible. I will strongly reaffirm that, without peace, 
there is no development; and without development, there 
is  no  peace.  Today  we  acknowledge  the  importance 
of  transforming  our  world  by  achieving  the  2030 
Agenda,  which  we  designed  to  create  a  peaceful  and 
prosperous society.
Peace  and  development  are 
Living  together  in  peace  means  a  society  that 
works together in constructing partnerships to foster a 
culture of peace so that our global family can succeed 
in our collective aspiration towards eradicating poverty 
so that no one is left behind. We can attain global peace 
through cooperation, mediation and dialogue. We can 
begin  by  pursuing  global  understanding  and  respect 
throughout  all  generations  to  come.  After  all,  Nelson 
Mandela steadfastly believed that peace is the greatest 
weapon for development that any person can have.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Abdelkader Messahel, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria.
42/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Mr. Messahel (Algeria) (spoke in French): It is a 
great honour for me to address the General Assembly 
at 
the  centennial 
celebration of the African icon Nelson Mandela.
this  historic  Summit,  marking 
Nelson Mandela, a symbol of the struggle against 
apartheid  in  South  Africa  and  a  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
laureate,  dedicated  his  life  to  the  just  cause  of  his 
people,  to  which  devoted  himself  tirelessly  on  the 
remarkable  journey  he  undertook  with  humility.  As 
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has said,
“Nelson  Mandela  is  integral  to  the  history 
of  South  Africa,  embodying  its  long  struggle  for 
freedom and dignity. His fight against the apartheid 
system  and  to  rehabilitate  human  beings  in  all 
their dignity inspired the Algerian people in their 
own fight.”
Nelson Mandela was a faithful friend of Algeria and 
is part and parcel of our history. It is with great pride that I 
recall Mandela’s declaration that the National Liberation 
Army and the Algerian people had inspired his struggle 
for freedom and that Algeria, which made him a man, 
was  like  a  second  home  to  him.  Representatives  will 
certainly recall that the United Nations membership of 
the apartheid regime was suspended during the course 
of  the  twenty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
under the presidency of Algeria’s President Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika,  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  at  that 
time, and the African National Congress was accorded 
the  status  of  observer  to  the  United  Nations  through 
what is known as the Bouteflika ruling.
Above and beyond his belonging to Africa, whose 
virtues,  humanist  values  and  pan-African 
ideals 
he  embodied,  Nelson  Mandela  was  an  exemplary 
champion of human rights and the rights of peoples to 
self-determination, which is a key driving force for the 
prevalence of peace and freedom throughout the world. 
His  work  to  promote  reconciliation,  gender  equality, 
the rights of children and other persons in vulnerable 
situations, and the defence of poor and underdeveloped 
communities  will  remain  rooted  in  the  history  of 
humankind and an inspiration to the United Nations.
Today’s  commemoration  must 
therefore  pay 
tribute  to  Mandela’s  long  political  struggle  for  the 
right of peoples to self-determination. We welcome the 
proclamation  of  the  period  2019-2028  as  the  Nelson 
Mandela Peace Decade, and we endorse the call on all 
Member  States  to  redouble  their  efforts  to  guarantee 
international peace, security, development and human 
rights over the course of the Decade.
I conclude by saying that it is incumbent upon all of 
us to make Mandela’s rainbow dream a reality that will 
allow us all to express our profound desire to live and 
act  together,  united  by  our  differences  and  diversity, 
in  order  to  build  a  sustainable  world  based  on  peace, 
solidarity and harmony. It is precisely that desire that 
underpinned  the  initiative  launched  by  Algeria  and 
other  African  countries  here  a  year  ago  to  proclaim 
16  May  each  year  the  International  Day  of  Living 
Together in Peace.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sidiki  Kaba,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Senegalese Abroad of the Republic 
of Senegal.
Mr.  Kaba  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a 
great  honour  and  a  privilege  for  me  to  represent  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Senegal,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Macky Sall, at this important Summit, which exalts 
our  shared  universal  values  as  embodied  by  one  of 
the  most  illustrious  men  in  history,  President  Nelson 
Mandela. Through this Summit, we are reaffirming our 
common devotion to President Mandela, who, through 
his  commitment  to  and  struggle  for  human  dignity, 
made his mark on history and remains a model for our 
future.  In  a  world  constantly  seeking  meaning,  there 
is  no  opportunity  more  fitting  than  the  centenary  of 
Mandela’s birth for us to dwell on his exceptional and 
multidimensional  legacy  as  an  inexhaustible  source 
of  inspiration  for  us  to  find  answers  to  the  multiple 
challenges we currently face in bringing peace, justice 
and prosperity to our world.
is 
Another  happy  coincidence 
the  seventieth 
anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, whose founding principles enshrine 
freedom and equal dignity among human beings. Indeed, 
conflicts  between  nations  have  declined  considerably 
and the world has become more prosperous. Hope has 
been further heightened by the ongoing implementation 
of the Sustainable Development Goals.
However,  more  than  seven  decades  after  the 
establishment of the United Nations, the international 
community continues to face unprecedented perils that 
hinder peace and security at a time when multilateralism 
is  under  severe  strain.  These  political,  security  and 
socioeconomic  challenges  include,  inter  alia,  poverty 
and exclusion, violent extremism and terrorism, illicit 
18-29599
43/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
trafficking and the rise of nationalism, intolerance and 
racism. These acutely affect young people and women, 
especially  in  Africa.  The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
remains unresolved, despite the clear parameters set by 
the international community to that end.
teachings 
of 
the 
Therefore, 
President 
Mandela — focusing on dialogue, consultation, open-
mindedness  and  respect  for  others  —  remain  more 
relevant  than  ever  if  we  are  to  achieve  international 
peace and security, especially by prioritizing prevention 
and mediation. Did he not often urge us to work for the 
power of ideas to triumph over bloodshed? By drawing 
on  his  legacy,  we  must  carry  on  his  struggle  for  the 
respect and promotion of human rights, dignity, equality, 
democracy and a culture of peace throughout the world. 
These  values,    enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, must unite us here within the Organization.
In  August  1987,  Senegal  hosted  the  first  meeting 
between  white  South  African  players  from  various 
backgrounds and a delegation of the African National 
Congress  led  by  President  Thabo  Mbeki,  thereby 
demonstrating  its  unwavering  commitment  to  ending 
apartheid  through  dialogue  and  consultations.  We 
enjoyed widespread national support in this objective. 
We  must  now  work  to  ensure  that  the  contents  of  the 
political declaration (resolution 73/1) that we have just 
adopted — which is inspired by the life and work of our 
illustrious  Elder  and  proclaims  the  period  2019-2028 
as the Nelson Mandela Decade of Peace — are shared 
globally and can serve as a handbook for each of us.
In  promoting  the  values  enshrined  by  President 
Mandela, Senegal remains steadfast in its commitment 
to peace and will continue working for a peaceful world 
in the light of the Ubuntu philosophy of living together 
in  harmony.  Together,  we  can  tear  down  the  walls  of 
separation  and,  together,  we  must  build  bridges  of 
friendship and fraternity among our peoples.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Pravind Kumar 
Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister for Home Affairs, 
External  Communications  and  National  Development 
Unit, Minister for Finance and Economic Development 
of the Republic of Mauritius.
Mr.  Jugnauth  (Mauritius):  As  we  gather  today 
to  reflect  on  global  peace  together,  let  us  learn  from 
Madiba  and  his  extraordinary  personal  character  and 
fierce principles, which allowed him to strive for justice 
for his people.
Mauritius was privileged to host the late President 
Mandela twice while he was in office and several times 
after he stepped down. In recognition of his towering 
moral  authority,  Mauritius  inaugurated  the  Nelson 
Mandela Cultural Centre as early as 1986. His values of 
truth and reconciliation serve as the basis for our own 
drive to promote unity in diversity. As a country that 
was built on slavery and indentured labour, Mauritius 
seeks  to  promote  an  inclusive  society,  respectful  of 
human rights and proud of its African, Indian, Chinese 
and European heritage.
Madiba’s empathy and generosity of spirit allowed 
him  to  forgive  his  enemies  and  reach  out  to  make 
enduring peace for his country, despite the hardships he 
suffered. Madiba never lost sight of what was important, 
which  is  peace  and  social  justice  for  all.  A  mediator 
par excellence, he used his status as an elder statesman 
to  further  the  cause  of  peace  and  social  justice,  even 
after he stepped down as President of the Republic of 
South  Africa.  His  whole  life  showcases  the  strength 
of the weak, which, when leaning on the principles of 
a  righteous  cause,  is  capable  of  transforming  diverse 
injustices and violence into peace and justice.
We as global leaders must do likewise — reach out 
and  build  bridges  for  the  betterment  of  humankind. 
Let  him  be  an  inspiration  to  us  even  today  as  we 
see  a  re-emergence  of  intolerance  and  xenophobia 
worldwide. Peace is fragile. We must show strength and 
rise to the challenge. As we subscribe to the political 
declaration (resolution 73/1) and support the call for the 
Nelson Mandela Decade of Peace today, we must strive 
to  ensure  the  endurance  of  his  legacy  by  our  actions. 
Let us learn from Madiba’s legacy.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Régis Immongault Tatangani, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation,  Francophonie  and 
Regional Integration of the Republic of Gabon.
Mr.  Immongault  Tatangani  (Gabon)  (spoke  in 
French): It is an honour for me to speak on behalf of 
the Gabonese President, His Excellency Mr. Ali Bongo 
Ondimba,  at  this  Peace  Summit,  which  pays  a  fitting 
tribute  to  the  work  and  ideals  defended  by  Nelson 
Mandela.  That  illustrious  man  left  his  mark  on  the 
history of humankind through his leadership and sense 
of duty.
The  Gabonese  people  will  never  forget  his  first 
visit  as  a  free  man.  He  set  foot  on  Gabonese  soil  on 
14  February  1991,  just  three  days  after  his  release 
44/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
from prison. Gabon and Mandela have always shared a 
commitment to peace. It is therefore a real pleasure for 
me to take part in this Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, 
which I have no doubt will continue to perpetuate the 
legacy of that Nobel Peace Prize laureate.
Our  planet  continues  to  be  plagued  by  a  large 
number of conflicts and latent crises that require strong 
world  leadership  with  the  ability  to  think  outside  the 
box  and  provide  new  and  bold  solutions  that  promote 
lasting  peace.  There  are  many  situations  in  which 
peace remains fragile, despite the significant advances 
our  Organization  has  made  in  defusing  conflict  and 
establishing  and  consolidating  peace.  We  have  many 
mechanisms  in  place,  including  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the  United 
Nations  Democracy  Fund  and  various  peacekeeping 
operations. In addition, in recent years our Organization 
has increased its development efforts to better combat 
poverty  and  social  exclusion,  which  are,  as  we  all 
know, major sources of tension. Our Organization has 
important  tools  at  its  disposal  for  the  promotion  of 
peace and international security.
One might wonder why crises and conflicts persist. 
Are we sufficiently invested in the quest for peace? Are 
we capable, at this rate, of establishing just, peaceful, 
prosperous and inclusive societies by 2030? For Gabon, 
the main difficulty lies in our ability to make the most 
of the mechanisms at our disposal. We must therefore 
maintain and adapt our efforts to the changes and threats 
to  peace  and  security.  The  world  is  changing  fast,  as 
is  the  nature  of  conflict;  it  is  therefore  imperative  to 
adapt our mechanisms for promoting and consolidating 
peace.
To that end, my country supports the ongoing reforms 
undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General  to  improve  and 
adapt  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding  architecture. 
Gabon  has  often  underlined  the  importance  of  the 
United  Nations  adopting  more  effective  prevention 
tools adapted to current situations. We must step up our 
efforts in terms of prevention. The establishment of the 
Central African Early Warning Mechanism, responsible 
for  analysing  the  risks  and  evolution  of  crises  and 
their  causes,  as  well  as  for  seeking  solutions,  is  part 
of this approach. The  Council  for Peace  and Security 
in Central Africa advocates preventive diplomacy and 
mediation, which are strongly endorsed by the States of 
the subregion, including Gabon. That is also reflected 
in  Gabon’s  deployment  of  a  contingent  to  the  United 
Nations  Multidimensional 
Mission in the Central African Republic.
Integrated  Stabilization 
The efforts of the United Nations, including those 
that  have  led  to  the  strengthening  of  the  Group  of 
Friends of Mediation, deserve recognition. I welcome 
the  proposed  approach  that  includes  the  three  pillars 
of  the  United  Nations  from  a  conflict-prevention 
perspective.  In  order  to  be  effective,  prevention  and, 
at  the  very  least,  mediation  must  be  predictable  and 
adequate  financing.  Furthermore,  because  they  have 
in-depth  knowledge  on  the  ground,  the  involvement 
of  regional  and  subregional  organizations  and  civil 
society  is  also  essential.  It  should  be  recalled  that 
organizations such as the African Union, the Economic 
Community of Central African States and the Economic 
Community of West African States have in many cases 
helped to defuse political crises, promote the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  encourage  the  signing  of 
peace agreements.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  emphasizing  the 
importance  of  paying  particular  attention  to  security 
risks and threats related to the effects of climate change. 
Desertification,  drought, 
the  extreme  variability 
of  rainfall  and  the  recurrence  of  floods  and  storms 
contribute significantly to the decline of resources and 
can generate new conflicts and increase the number of 
climate  refugees.  These  dynamics  will  certainly  have 
an impact on vulnerable regions, such as the Horn of 
Africa and the Sahel.
In order to address them, mechanisms for conflict 
prevention  and  the  promotion  of  peace  and  security 
of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  of  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  must  be  subject  to  the 
necessary  adaptation  and  resilience.  In  this  regard,  I 
welcome  the  holding  of  a  Security  Council  debate  on 
climate  change  and  its  implications  for  international 
peace  and  security  on  11  July  (S/PV.8307).  Climate 
disruption is a pressing issue that we must address with 
the necessary attention and determination. The survival 
of our world is at stake.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency Mr. Jorge Arreaza, Minister of the People’s 
Power for Foreign Affairs of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela.
Mr.  Arreaza  (Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela) 
(spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  a  great  honour  for  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  to  speak  on  behalf 
of  the  120  States  members  of  the  Movement  of 
18-29599
45/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Non-Aligned  Countries  at  this  historic  Peace  Summit 
to  commemorate  the  centenary  of  Nelson  Mandela’s 
birth.
At  the  18th  Mid-Term  Ministerial  Meeting  of 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  held  in 
April in the city of Baku, ministers adopted a special 
declaration to commemorate the centenary of the birth 
of Nelson Mandela, in which they urge the international 
community to seize that opportunity to redouble their 
efforts  aimed  at  tackling  the  challenges  posed  by 
poverty  and  underdevelopment  and  to  promote  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, inter alia.
took 
that  opportunity 
The  ministers  also 
to 
reaffirm  that  the  life  lessons  of  Nelson  Mandela  are 
aligned  with  the  fundamental  principles,  values  and 
objectives  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  These 
principles  are  mutual  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  others;  the  non-use  of  force; 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States; 
equality, mutual benefit, peaceful coexistence and the 
resolution  of  international  controversies  by  peaceful 
means.  Moreover,  we  cannot  overemphasize  the  role 
and  leadership  of  Nelson  Mandela,  together  with  our 
Movement, over which he presided in 1998 and 1999, in 
the fight against colonialism, racial discrimination and 
apartheid, especially in South Africa, whose liberation 
constituted  a  decisive  milestone  in  the  history  of  our 
Movement.
Nelson  Mandela  is  one  of  the  greatest  leaders  of 
our  time.  His  legacy  remains  a  source  of  inspiration 
through  his  example  of  courage,  service,  forgiveness, 
reconciliation  and  compassion.  In  this  regard,  and 
perhaps most importantly, in order to honour his legacy 
we  must  translate  our  words  into  actions.  As  Nelson 
Mandela  himself  said  in  2004,  “Peace  is  not  just  the 
absence  of  conflict”.  We  must  therefore  step  up  our 
efforts at the global level to establish conditions leading 
to sustainable peace and to promote a genuine culture 
of  peace,  including,  inter  alia,  through  the  effective 
management  of  protracted  crises,  the  root  causes  of 
terrorism  and  extremism,  poverty  in  every  shape  and 
form, discrimination and xenophobia, intolerance and 
social injustices of every kind.
In 
that  regard, 
the  States  members  of 
the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, faithful to their 
commitment to strengthening their role and position as 
an anti-war and peace-loving force and to establishing 
a peaceful and prosperous world, as well as a fair and 
equitable  world  order,  believe  that  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development provides a framework for 
action in favour of people, humankind, the planet and 
prosperity in which no one is left behind and that seeks 
to achieve universal peace as a greater freedom. At the 
same time, we recognize that the eradication of poverty 
in all its forms and manifestations, including extreme 
poverty,  constitutes  the  greatest  global  challenge  and 
prerequisite  for  achieving  sustainable  development. 
Today, we therefore take this opportunity to renew our 
commitment  to  the  full  and  effective  implementation 
of this beautiful 2030 Agenda to reaffirm our pledge to 
leave no one behind.
Moreover,  we  also  reiterate  our  commitment  to 
honouring the legacy of Nelson Mandela and keeping 
his  principles  alive,  including  those  of  solidarity  and 
disinterested  dedication  to  the  service  of  humankind, 
particularly  in  the  spheres  of  conflict  resolution, 
interracial  relations,  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights, reconciliation, gender equality, the rights 
of the child and other vulnerable groups, the fight for 
democracy at the international level and the promotion 
of a culture of peace throughout the world on behalf of 
the poorest and most underdeveloped communities.
Mr.  Greenidge (Guyana),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In  conclusion,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  awaits 
with great interest the various initiatives and activities 
to be undertaken during the Nelson Mandela Decade of 
Peace  2019-2028.  We  also  appeal  to  the  international 
community  to  actively  engage  in  that  regard.  We 
are  committed,  just  as  Madiba  was,  to  building  a 
comprehensive, fair and lasting peace. Let us do so for 
present and future generations.
If I may, in my national capacity on behalf of the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  it  is  a  privilege 
for  us  to  be  part  of  this  tribute  and  the  adoption  of 
resolution 73/1 for Nelson Mandela. Madiba is part of 
the  founding  benchmark  of  the  Bolivarian  revolution 
and of everything beautiful that humankind represents. 
For us, this is not an act of diplomacy or of hypocrisy; 
we are not pretending or posing. We are paying tribute 
to  one  of  our  fathers,  Nelson  Mandela  —  a  man  of 
solidarity,  a  man  of  equality,  a  socialist  in  the  best 
sense of the word, a complete socialist who fought for 
peace and for the beauty in humankind.
46/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
The Acting President: I now call on Her Excellency 
Ms. Sushma Swaraj, Minister of External Affairs of the 
Republic of India.
Ms. Swaraj (India): I feel privileged to be attending 
this event to commemorate the life and contributions of 
Nelson Mandela. Nelson Mandela’s life is an inspiration 
to  all.  He  showed  fearless  courage  in  the  face  of 
discrimination  and  adversity.  The  values  espoused 
by him — forgiveness and compassion, as well as the 
inclusiveness of society — are needed now more than 
ever in these turbulent times around the world.
We Indians consider Madiba to be one of our own. 
We are proud to call him a Bharat Ratna — a jewel of 
India. India cherishes its special relationship and long-
standing  partnership  with  Africa  and  its  people.  Our 
close bonds are reflected in the philosophy of Mandela 
and  Mahatma  Gandhi,  father  of  our  nation.  Both  led 
their  peoples  to  freedom  through  mass  peaceful 
struggles. They made every effort to overcome divisive 
and narrow identity politics and to turn the diversity of 
our societies into their strength instead of a weakness.
At  the  United  Nations  in  1994,  Nelson  Mandela 
said  that  “the  society  we  seek  to  create  must  be  a 
people-centred  society;  all  its  institutions  and  its 
resources must be dedicated to the pursuit of a better 
life for all our citizens.” (A/49/PV.14, p. 8). These words 
are all the more relevant today.
Our  world  is  still  beset  with  conflicts,  terror  and 
hateful  ideologies  that  transcend  borders  and  impact 
our lives. No one should be allowed to support terror 
or its perpetration. Our collective survival as a global 
family  requires  the  wisdom  of  pioneering  leaders, 
such as Mandela, to remain our moral compass. Let us 
share this planet as one. Let us make a better world for 
our children.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Jorge Marcelo Faurie, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Worship of the Argentine Republic.
Mr. Faurie (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): It is an 
honour  for  Argentina  to  speak  at  this  Peace  Summit, 
which  provides  us  with  the  opportunity  to  recognize 
the  dedication  of  President  Mandela  to  the  service  of 
humankind.  Argentina  reaffirms  its  respect  for  the 
tremendous  experience  and  values  that  are  embodied 
by Nelson Mandela and characterize his life: a vision 
of the dignity of humankind, a struggle against racial 
discrimination  and  injustices,  and  all  his  ongoing 
efforts to promote democracy and a culture of peace.
Nelson  Mandela  continues  to  be  an  inspiration 
for all those who are part of this Organization, above 
all  thanks  to  his  teaching  and  his  support  for  the 
reconciliation  of  peoples  and  for  his  defence  of  the 
poorest  and  most  vulnerable  communities.  Mandela 
was a unique statesman because he converted his words 
into actions and showed that true leaders must always 
be  willing  to  sacrifice  everything  for  the  freedom  of 
their people. As States Members of the Organization, 
we are all responsible for promoting and protecting the 
human rights of our peoples.
Following the path carved by Mandela, I believe that 
we must work actively to stamp out all manifestations 
of  discrimination  and  intolerance  and,  above  all,  we 
must foster education through democracy and learn to 
resolve conflicts peacefully. Armed conflicts constitute 
a threat to the respect and enjoyment of human rights. 
They  jeopardize  and  compromise  the  right  to  life, 
freedom,  individual  security  and  the  freedoms  of 
expression,  association, 
thought,  conscience  and 
religion. Conflicts create conditions that lead to serious 
violations  of  international  humanitarian  law,  such  as 
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Argentina, as an active member of the international 
community,  reaffirms  its  steadfast  commitment  to 
defending human rights and to maintaining international 
peace and security. We are striving to raise awareness of 
human suffering and the need to provide humanitarian 
assistance, especially to those regions that are seriously 
affected by conflict situations.
Nelson  Mandela  has  been  a  key  figure  in  our 
twentieth  century  and  his  enormous  valour  and 
commitment will always serve as examples for future 
generations.  Before  concluding,  I  wish  to  recall  some 
of Mandela’s inspiring words when he reminded us all 
that death is inevitable and that, when a man has done 
what he considers to be his duty to his people and his 
country,  he  can  rest  in  peace.  He  said  of  himself:  “I 
believe I have made that effort and that is, therefore, why 
I will sleep for eternity”. Two words have always been 
present  here  —  forgiveness  and  reconciliation  —  as 
well  as  peace.  They  sum  up  his  legacy  and  what  we 
should remember in honouring Nelson Mandela.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Aurelia  Frick,  Minister  for  Foreign 
18-29599
47/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Affairs,  Justice  and  Culture  of  the  Principality  of 
Liechtenstein.
Ms.  Frick  (Liechtenstein):  I  was  a  very  young 
woman when Nelson Mandela was released from Robben 
Island. It is a moment that sticks out in my memory as 
an  example  of  fortitude  and  a  triumph  over  adversity 
and injustice. After he had been unfairly imprisoned for 
27 years, Madiba’s abiding and dignified commitment 
to justice quickly became an inspiration to all and has 
remained so to this day.
Nelson  Mandela’s  commitment  to  justice  and 
reconciliation stands out in his legacy. More than anyone 
he embodied the belief that the rule of law is the key to 
a world of peace and that justice can and will prevail. 
We in Liechtenstein believe that justice is essential to 
overcoming oppression and creating sustainable peace. 
We therefore fight for a strong system of international 
criminal justice with the International Criminal Court 
(ICC)  at  its  core.  In  fact,  we  see  Mandela’s  lifelong 
fight reflected in the ICC’s founding document. Article 
7 of the Rome Statute cites the crime of apartheid as a 
crime against humanity and therefore one of the worst 
possible  human  rights  violations.  African  countries 
were  at  the  forefront  of  pressing  for  a  permanent 
independent  international  criminal  court.  And  as 
Mandela said himself, his own continent had suffered 
enough horrors arising from the inhumanity of human 
beings  towards  others.  Who  knows  if  many  of  them 
might  not  have  occurred  or  might  at  least  have  been 
minimized  had  there  been  an  effectively  functioning 
international criminal court?
Nelson  Mandela  also  demonstrated  that  justice 
means dealing with past abuses in a way that can lead to 
a fairer and more peaceful world. While it is essential 
to  prosecute  the  most  serious  crimes,  justice  must 
also  be  restorative  even  for  the  worst  crimes  known 
to humanity. It should provide opportunities for those 
affected  to  heal  the  wounds  created  by  conflict  and 
rebuild society rather than becoming trapped in a cycle 
of violence, retribution and punishment.
It  is  also  the  pursuit  of  peace  that  will  enable  us 
to  deliver  on  Nelson  Mandela’s  legacy.  This  year,  we 
will  build  on  it  by  bringing  into  force  the  Kampala 
amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression,  according 
to  which  leaders  who  wage  aggressive  war  can 
be  prosecuted  before  the  ICC.  By  taking  this  step 
penalizing  illegal  warfare,  States  have  made  another 
essential  contribution  to  a  world  of  sustainable  peace 
through justice. We can prevent powerful people from 
committing  any  more  of  the  crimes  that  Madiba  had 
to  suffer  through,  and  we  can  create  a  more  secure, 
peaceful and just world for future generations. I hope 
that  he  will  be  proud  of  our  efforts  to  create  such 
a world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Eldirdiri  Mohamed  Ahmed,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Sudan.
Mr.  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  our  sister  Republic  of 
South  Africa  for  organizing  this  important  Summit 
to  honour  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  its  late  leader 
Nelson Mandela. I would also like to thank all of those 
who  worked  to  ensure  that  the  Summit  could  take 
place, particularly the former President of the General 
Assembly and the Permanent Representatives of South 
Africa  and  Ireland,  who  facilitated  the  negotiations 
that  enabled  the  Assembly  to  adopt  today’s  political 
declaration (resolution 73/1).
The Sudan is taking part in this Summit to reaffirm 
its commitment to the noble values that the late leader 
Nelson  Mandela  fought  for,  especially  freedom,  full 
equality  and  non-discrimination  on  the  basis  of  a 
person’s colour, ethnicity, religion or the other factors 
that  some  use  to  discriminate  against  their  brethren 
in humanity. For indeed it is God who created human 
beings equal in rights and obligations and placed them 
above all other creatures. In the Qur’an, God says:
“We have honoured the sons of Adam; provided 
them  with  transport  on  land  and  sea;  given  them 
for sustenance things good and pure; and conferred 
on them special favours, above a great part of our 
creation.” (XVII, 70)
The Sudan believed in the cause for which Nelson 
Mandela  fought  and  for  which  he  and  his  brothers 
and sisters who struggled with him paid a very heavy 
price. In the 1960s the Government of the Sudan hosted 
him and granted him a Sudanese passport — the first 
passport he ever held — to assist him in his efforts, and 
later  spread  its  help  to  many  other  African  liberation 
movements. That struggle culminated in the attainment 
of  freedom  and  independence  and  in  eliminating  the 
apartheid  regime  in  South  Africa,  the  most  heinous 
system in contemporary history.
The active participation of Member States from all 
over the world in today’s Summit is full proof that the 
48/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
values for which Mandela struggled are universal, and 
that  humankind  unquestionably  needs  them  today  in 
order to deal with the major threats facing our world. 
We  are  in  dire  need  of  the  values  of  forgiveness  and 
tolerance that Mandela embodied in his aim of achieving 
peace, national reconciliation and peaceful coexistence 
among the various sectors of society while eliminating 
xenophobia and anti-immigrant sentiments, as well as 
neo-Nazism.  We  also  need  to  underscore  the  values 
of  equality,  promote  and  maintain  human  rights  and 
protect society’s vulnerable sectors within democracy. 
The  aim  is  to  build  a  better  future  in  which  human 
beings can live on an equal footing and in dignity, on the 
basis of justice between large and small States, free of 
intolerance and narrow populism, while strengthening 
the opportunities for developing countries to attain the 
Sustainable Development Goals. If we can do that, we 
will have done humankind the greatest possible service 
and made the centenary of Nelson Mandela’s birth an 
event that people will remember  forever.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Rodolfo  Nin  Novoa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr. Nin Novoa (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): As 
we  commemorate  the  100th  anniversary  of  Nelson 
Mandela’s birth, the world is in a deteriorating situation 
with respect to international peace and security. Wars, 
famines, racism and xenophobia, to mention just some 
of  the  calamities  that  human  beings  are  inflicting  on 
their  fellows,  presage  a  future  plagued  by  difficulties 
that are increasingly difficult to tackle simultaneously 
at a time when solidarity, tolerance and empathy appear 
to be retreating before what are clearly growing trends 
towards individualism, intolerance and indifference to 
the fate of others.
Against  that  backdrop,  the  iconic  figure  and 
imperishable legacy of this fighter for peace, democracy, 
tolerance and humanism are more relevant today than 
ever. Nelson Mandela’s political and personal journey, 
marked by his steadfast commitment to human rights, 
freedom  and  brotherhood,  is  the  best  example  of  a 
political  praxis  that  is  coherent  and  consistent  with 
the values that should rule in relations between people 
and between States. We could not have chosen a figure 
whose  experience  and  political  action  could  better 
symbolize the magnitude of the challenges that the world 
is facing. Mandela was without a doubt a man ahead of 
his time, a statesman with a profound understanding of 
the complex nature of human beings who transformed 
forgiveness, reconciliation, acceptance of others and a 
culture of dialogue and concord into the fundamental 
pillars for rebuilding a country, ethically and politically, 
that  had  been  devastated  by  decades  of  segregation, 
racism and inequality.
Like  no  one  else,  he  emphasized  the  dignity  of 
human beings as central to political action, including in 
the international arena. His generosity, and the fact that 
he extended a hand to those who had unjustly deprived 
him  of  liberty  for  27  years,  has  been  an  example  to 
the world. Madiba was first and foremost an African, 
in the way he expressed himself and his pride for his 
traditions, cultural roots and spiritual heritage. But at 
the same time he projected himself as the most universal 
of modern political leaders, aware, as few are, that for 
human beings to be truly free they need their States to 
be effectively and sincerely committed to peace, human 
rights and development.
The  political  declaration  we  have  adopted  at  this 
special meeting today (resolution 73/1) focuses on the 
essential values that must unite us as civilized countries 
in  fostering  multilateralism  and  peaceful  coexistence 
while  always  protecting  the  most  vulnerable  and 
striving  to  ensure  the  conditions  that  people  need  to 
develop  their  abilities  and  talents  freely  and  equally. 
Recognizing the period from 2019 to 2028 as the Nelson 
Mandela Decade of Peace should be a turning point that 
will  commit  us  to  taking  action  in  order  to  achieve  a 
world that is more just, peaceful, democratic, equitable 
and inclusive, the world for which Mandela fought and 
that our peoples and his tireless example demand of us.
Uruguay firmly supports the principles proclaimed 
in the political declaration — the defence of the sovereign 
equality  of  States,  respect  for  the  territorial  integrity 
and independence of States and refraining from threats 
or  the  use  of  force  in  international  relations  —  but 
above all, we are unwaveringly committed to combating 
racism, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination and 
intolerance in order to build a more equitable, peaceful, 
prosperous and inclusive world. That is the best tribute 
that my country can pay Nelson Mandela.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Siala, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation 
of the State of Libya.
Mr. Siala (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
on  behalf  of  my  Government  I  have  the  pleasure  of 
expressing my thanks and appreciation to the President 
18-29599
49/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
of  the  General  Assembly  for  holding  this  high-level 
meeting, the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit, which on 
23 January the General Assembly agreed to convene in 
accordance with resolution 72/243.
There  has  never  been  such  a  global  consensus 
on  the  status  of  a  contemporary  figure  as  on  the 
late  Nelson  Mandela,  known  as  Madiba.  Such 
attention  to  an  important  leader  does  not  come  from 
nowhere.  Mandela’s  history  was  full  of  sacrifices, 
accomplishments  and  dramatic  changes.  Perhaps 
the  most  important  was  that  he  adopted  a  culture  of 
tolerance and converted it into the kind of driving force 
that we so badly need nowadays. He has been described 
as an icon of peace and tolerance and is considered a 
symbol  of  freedom,  and  the  transitional  period  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Africa  is  testament  to  that.  Great 
leaders  are  not  born  every  day,  and  history  is  driven 
only  by  those  who  have  courage,  strength,  goodwill, 
patience  and  the  ability  to  sacrifice  and  see  things 
differently  from  others.  Humankind  lost  one  of  those 
great leaders in Nelson Mandela, who lived for almost 
a century, from 1918 to 2013.
As we all know, Madiba did not put himself above 
the  interests  of  his  people;  rather,  he  strived  and  did 
everything  he  could  to  bring  about  transformations 
and  the  sustainability  of  the  common  good.  After 
entrenching  the  roots  and  mechanisms  of  national 
reconciliation  between  all  ethnicities  and  races,  he 
would  not  permit  the  exclusion  of  or  any  injustice 
towards  the  white  minority  that  had  controlled  his 
country for centuries. He did not treat them as they had 
treated the majority of people when they were in control. 
His approach was one of conscience and firm principle, 
aimed at improving the lives of ordinary people without 
discrimination  in  any  way.  He  enshrined  the  concept 
of  leadership  as  service  —  and  with  service  come 
sacrifice  and  the  delegation  of  power  to  others  rather 
than their marginalization, along with the engagement 
of society in political life so as to enable it to progress 
and develop.
My  country  feels  a  special  appreciation  for  this 
great African leader. His struggle was not confined to 
his country, South Africa. Rather, he felt the suffering 
and injustice sustained by all nations, particularly the 
peoples  of  Africa.  That  is  why  my  country  honoured 
Nelson  Mandela  at  a  time,  in  1989,  when  everyone 
was  shying  away  from  him.  Mandela  in  his  turn  was 
a  strong  and  major  supporter  of  my  country’s  cause 
and helped to end the blockade against Libya’s Arab-
African people.
The legacy of Mandela will live on in Africa and 
all over the world. His life, so rich in political struggle 
and sacrifice, will be an example for millions across the 
world. I hope that we can all take the time to realize the 
extent to which Mandela’s life has been an inspiration 
in  our  own  lives,  and  the  impact  that  it  will  have  on 
the lives of future generations, including their leaders. 
While he left us a world that is more just and free, let 
us  commit  to  advancing  towards  his  vision  of  unity, 
reconciliation,  global  peace,  development,  prosperity 
and a better life for everyone.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Khemais Jhinaoui, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Tunisia.
Mr. Jhinaoui (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): We meet 
today to commemorate the life of Nelson Mandela and 
to  reflect  on  the  struggles  of  this  great  leader,  out  of 
our appreciation for the sacrifices he made in order to 
uphold  humankind’s  shared  principles  and  values  of 
freedom,  dignity,  equality  and  justice.  Whenever  we 
reflect  on  Nelson  Mandela,  a  series  of  images  comes 
to mind — images of a statesman who devoted his life 
to eliminating racial discrimination, defending human 
rights, achieving national reconciliation and spreading 
peace  in  our  sister  nation  of  South  Africa  and  in  the 
world at large. Today Mandela’s intellectual and human 
legacy lives on and inspires us. Tunisia welcomes the 
consensus  on  the  political  declaration  of  the  Nelson 
Mandela  Peace  Summit  (resolution  73/1),  which  helps 
to inspire us by declaring the period from 2019 to 2028 
a  decade  of  peace,  motivating  us  to  work  tirelessly 
to  build  a  more  just,  peaceful,  prosperous,  fair  and 
inclusive world and to uphold the common values that 
Madiba embodied for the sake of peace.
Our  world  today  is  confronting  enormous  and 
rapidly  evolving  threats  and  challenges,  widespread 
extremist  violence  and  terrorism  in  many  parts  of 
the  globe  and  an  upsurge  in  hate  speech  related  to 
nationalism,  intolerance,  racism,  unwillingness  to 
accept others as well as frequent violations of human 
rights.  Weak  governance  and  a  lack  of  social  justice, 
development  inequalities  at  both  the  national  and 
international  level,  growing  links  between  organized 
crime  in  its  various  forms,  climate  change  and  other 
factors all help to create a fertile breeding ground for 
the further spread of such destructive threats.
50/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Now  more  than  ever,  we  need  to  hold  on  to  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  noble  objectives  that  inspired  the 
founders  of  our  inclusive  international  Organization 
in  San  Francisco  in  the  aftermath  of  the  destruction 
wrought  by  the  Second  World  War.  We  must  commit 
to  working  to  realize  the  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations, redoubling our efforts to build a just, peaceful, 
prosperous and inclusive world and reviving the values 
for  which  Nelson  Mandela  stood,  while  ensuring 
that  human  dignity  is  at  the  heart  of  our  actions,  as 
proclaimed in the political declaration we have adopted 
today. In that regard, as a country that has been a centre 
for  positive  interaction  among  various  civilizations 
for  more  than  3,000  years,  Tunisia  emphasizes  its 
commitment  to  promoting  the  values  of  tolerance, 
moderation,  mutual  respect  and  solidarity  among  our 
peoples and nations.
Tunisia has continued to underscore its commitment 
to a culture of peace, tolerance, dialogue and consensus 
in  order  to  manage  crises  peacefully,  as  a  strategic, 
civilized choice. That has ensured that we have never 
seriously deviated from our democratic transition and 
earned  us  the  2015  Nobel  Peace  Prize  —  which  we 
shared with the National Dialogue Quartet — honouring 
us  with  its  praise  for  the  constructive  role  that  civil 
society has played in our country. Given our national 
experience,  now  more  than  ever  we  need  to  base  our 
efforts  on  Chapters  VI  and  VIII  of  the  Charter  in 
order  to  improve  the  Organization’s  effectiveness  in 
peacefully settling conflicts and preventing new ones.
In our belief in the vital role of women as a force for 
change, we want to reiterate the importance of women’s 
participation  in  the  various  preventive  initiatives 
designed  to  promote  our  societies’  resilience.  In  that 
context,  in  August  my  country  endorsed  a  national 
action plan for implementing resolution 1325 (2000) on 
women and peace and security. In its new Constitution 
of  2014,  Tunisia  introduced  the  concept  of  equality 
among  women  and  men  in  the  areas  of  rights  and 
responsibilities, and we have also enacted a progressive 
law on combating violence against women.
I would like to reiterate that promoting the role of 
young people as a positive force for change must be at 
the heart of our common efforts for peace at the United 
Nations.  We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  that  regard,  particularly  his  intention  to 
launch  a  new  United  Nations  youth  strategy  in  order 
to  promote  our  joint  efforts  to  support  that  important 
sector of our societies. I would like to recall in the regard 
a 1996 letter from Nelson Mandela in which he called 
on young men and women to take on the responsibility 
of  changing  the  world  in  order  to  improve  people’s 
lives and affirmed that the future lies in young people’s 
hands. Let us continue our efforts not only to provide 
better  opportunities  for  our  young  men  and  women 
but  also  to  promote  their  ability  to  lead  and  shoulder 
responsibilities in order to create a better future for our 
peoples  and  our  countries.  Let  us  educate  our  youth 
and  our  societies  as  a  whole  on  the  legacy  of  Nelson 
Mandela  and  the  human  values  for  which  he  fought. 
For that reason, the Tunisian postal service has issued 
a stamp in honour of Nelson Mandela’s centenary as a 
symbol of our endeavours for Africa and the world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Kairat  Abdrakhmanov,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
(Kazakhstan): 
Mr.  Abdrakhmanov 
I  would 
first  like  to  congratulate  Her  Excellency  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés,  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session, on her election to 
her high office and to wish her every success in leading 
this body.
Nelson Mandela is indeed an icon and an exemplary 
world  figure  whom  we  regard  as  one  of  the  greatest 
moral  and  political  leaders  of  our  time.  His  lifelong 
dedication to the service of humankind became a vital 
force  in  global  efforts  for  peace,  justice  and  equality. 
I  would  like  to  express  our  sincere  gratitude  to  the 
delegations of Ireland and South Africa for successfully 
steering  the  preparatory  process  of  the  draft  political 
declaration reaffirming the values of Nelson Mandela, 
which we all share. I therefore join others in welcoming 
our  adoption  today  of  a  historic  political  declaration 
(resolution 73/1), which should serve as a reminder to 
the  entire  international  community  of  the  imperative 
for  human  dignity  and  justice  and  the  pursuit  of 
peace  through  dialogue  and  reconciliation.  We  take 
inspiration from Mr. Mandela’s life, which was based 
on  mutual  respect,  goodwill  and  non-violent  tools  for 
fighting  the  many  conflicts  that  are  tearing  apart  the 
world  today.  That  dramatic  escalation  of  conflicts 
triggered  by  ethnic,  religious,  territorial  and  other 
factors  has  led  to  a  severe  humanitarian  crisis  across 
the  globe.  For  peace  to  prevail,  we  must  address  all 
the  root  causes  not  only  of  conflict  but  also  of  the 
other  scourges  that  confront  us,  including  terrorism, 
extremism,  organized  crime  and  human  trafficking. 
18-29599
51/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
And we must eliminate severe poverty and deprivation, 
food, water and energy insecurities and the threats of 
climate change and weapons of mass destruction, all of 
which aggravate conflicts.
In  its  26  years  of  independence,  Kazakhstan  has 
achieved  important  political,  social,  economic  and 
democratic  targets,  thereby  preserving  the  stability 
and well-being of its people. For my country — where 
more  than  100  ethnic  groups,  with  eight  different 
religious  denominations,  live  together  in  peace  and 
harmony — maintaining inter-ethnic and interreligious 
peace at the national, regional and international levels 
is  a  top  priority,  and  Kazakhstan  has  proved  both  its 
commitment and its proficiency in preventive diplomacy, 
mediation and honest brokering by peacefully resolving 
many conflicts.
Our  far-reaching  commitment  is  embodied  in 
the  2016  anti-war  manifesto  created  by  Kazakhstan’s 
President, Nursultan Nazarbayev, entitled “The World. 
The 21st Century”. It is a road map for peace that in many 
ways converges with the Secretary-General’s message 
to  the  world  through  his  new  peace  agenda,  his  plan 
of action on nuclear disarmament and his far-reaching 
reforms. Kazakhstan’s manifesto calls for the use of all 
the  available  tools,  from  early-warning  mechanisms, 
and  mediation, 
conflict  prevention,  diplomacy 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
to  development, 
and  for  capacity-building  by  all  Member  States.  My 
President’s January 2017 policy address to the Security 
Council, entitled “Kazakhstan’s concept and vision for 
sustaining  global  partnerships  for  a  secure,  just  and 
prosperous world” (see S/PV.7857), is another relevant 
tool to that end. It emphasizes several priorities aimed 
at preventing and ending military confrontation at the 
regional and global levels and creating a conflict-free 
world  by  the  time  of  the  United  Nations  centenary,  a 
goal that we would like the international community to 
adopt as its own.
As Mr. Mandela himself often said, it is in our hands 
to create a better world. Using him as our guiding star, 
let us resolve to relentlessly strive for a fair, peaceful 
and sustainable society in which all people live together 
peacefully and with equal opportunities and where no 
one  is  left  behind.  Let  us  recall  all  the  promises  that 
we  have  made  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
new agenda for sustaining peace (A/72/707). Only our 
collective will and solidarity as Member States can turn 
a world in crisis into a world of great hope and promise 
like the one that Mr. Mandela dreamed of.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivica  Dačić,  First  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Serbia.
Mr.  Dačić  (Serbia)  (spoke  in  Serbian;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I am greatly 
honoured to attend the Nelson Mandela Peace Summit 
here at United Nations Headquarters in New York, all 
the more so as it is held in honour of Nelson Mandela, 
an  exceptional  man  and  a  symbol  of  the  struggle  for 
a just world, as well as a great warrior for peace. The 
Summit,  held  just  before  the  general  debate  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session  and  in 
honour  of  the  centenary  of  Mr.  Mandela’s  birth,  will 
help us to make a more than symbolic contribution to the 
constructive atmosphere that we need to make progress 
in realizingthe goals of the United Nations, including 
the most precious among them, that of world peace.
As a successor State to the Socialist Federal Republic 
of  Yugoslavia,  Serbia  is  proud  of  the  role  played  by 
Yugoslavia and President Tito in the establishment of the 
Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries.  The  Movement 
has  played  an  important  role  in  the  struggle  against 
apartheid and for decolonization, while also investing 
continued effort in promoting the economic and social 
status of underdeveloped and developing countries.
While the world may be undergoing rapid change 
today,  many  of  the  goals  close  to  the  heart  of  Nelson 
Mandela,  a  stalwart  supporter  of  peace,  continue  to 
prevail. We must work even more diligently to promote 
peace, 
reconciliation,  unity,  non-discrimination, 
protection  and  human  rights.  Our  world  today  is 
grappling  with  various  threats  and  challenges  and  is 
quickly  becoming  a  very  different  place  from  what 
it  once  was.  We  are  witnessing  myriad  crises,  whose 
nature  and  consequences  are  often  complex  and 
interconnected, and we should therefore join forces in 
the quest for global responses.
For us in Serbia, the importance of the place and role 
of the United Nations in the international community 
is  unquestionable,  and  the  purposes  and  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations are valid 
and  indispensable.  The  equality  of  States,  refraining 
from the use of force, non-interference in the internal 
affairs  of  other  States,  respect  for  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity,  the  peaceful  solution  of  disputes 
52/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
and respect for diversity continue to be vital principles. 
My  country  supports  the  equitable  participation  of 
States  in  the  system  of  global  management,  and  we 
firmly  believe  that  with  political  will  and  a  genuine 
readiness to work together, along with a strengthened 
role  for  the  United  Nations  tailored  to  addressing 
modern  needs,  we  can  reach  higher  in  our  efforts  to 
build a better world for all.
The  prevention  and  solution  of  disputes  and 
crises  by  peaceful  means  are  indispensable  tools  for 
building  and  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. Strengthening a culture of peace and dialogue 
and  pursuing  policies  of  compromise  and  peaceful 
coexistence  are  therefore  key  factors  in  that  regard. 
In  the  face  of  ever  more  frequent  threats  and  new 
challenges,  we  must  work  together  constructively  to 
create the conditions for sustainable peace, strengthen 
institutions  and  democracy  and  promote  respect  for 
human rights and the rule of law.
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is a 
historic document and a vision of world development that 
can empower us to build a better future for humankind 
by eradicating poverty and hunger, ensuring inclusive 
education  and  health  and  reducing  the  increasing 
inequalities within and among nations.
Serbia strongly condemns terrorism and all forms 
of extremism and radicalism that pose a threat to peace. 
Together  with  the  United  Nations,  in  its  leading  role, 
and with our partners all over the world, we stand ready 
to  make  our  own  contribution  to  the  suppression  of 
those threats. As a leader in its region through the scope 
of  its  participation  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations,  Serbia  believes  that  peacekeeping  is  the 
responsibility of all, as are the continued commitment, 
engagement and strengthening of the relevant capacities 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  activities  of  the  United 
Nations  Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo 
are particularly important to us, and the undiminished 
scope of its neutral status is essential to stability and the 
creation of conditions conducive to achieving a lasting 
and  sustainable  solution  to  the  question  of  Kosovo 
and  Metohija.  Reaching  a  political  settlement  of  the 
Kosovo  issue  is  one  of  Serbia’s  national  priorities.  In 
defending  its  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity, 
Serbia is defending international law, the Charter of the 
United  Nations  and  international  peace  and  security 
as well as its own national and historical identity. My 
country  is  firmly  committed  to  peace,  the  European 
Union-facilitated  dialogue  between  Belgrade  and 
Pristina and to implementing the agreements reached. 
In our conduct of a responsible policy in that regard, we 
will do our best to protect the interests of our people as 
well as regional peace and stability.
In concluding my statement and once again paying 
my respects to the great man in whose honour we are 
gathered here today, I want to assure the Assembly that 
Serbia will gladly partner with every country willing 
and  ready  to  share  the  responsibility  for  building  a 
stable, just and prosperous world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Wang Yi, State Counsellor and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.
(China) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Wang  Yi 
in  Chinese): 
Mr.  Nelson  Mandela  was  a  prominent  South  African 
leader in the fight against apartheid and the founding 
father  of  the  new  South  Africa.  Throughout  his  life, 
Mr.  Mandela  pursued  national  liberation  in  Africa, 
defended  the  dignity  of  African  people  and  promoted 
the  unity  of  African  countries.  He  devoted  his  entire 
life  to  Africa’s  development  and  progress.  We  should 
forever  cherish  the  part  that  he  played  in  promoting 
the  peace  and  reconciliation  of  humankind.  His  great 
spirit will surely encourage future generations to work 
unremittingly for peace. It is regrettable, however, that 
peace  remains  elusive  in  so  many  places  throughout 
the  world.  As  we  gather  here  to  commemorate  the 
centenary  of  Mr.  Mandela’s  birth,  we  should  work  to 
promote  the  spirit  of  peace,  reconciliation,  equality 
and  inclusiveness  that  he  advocated,  values  that  will 
also enable the United Nations to better fulfil its noble 
mission of maintaining peace.
The United Nations is the symbol of multilateralism 
and  an 
important  guardian  of  world  peace.  In 
Mr.  Mandela’s  time  it  was  the  strong  moral  pressure 
of the United Nations and the international community 
that helped to accelerate the disintegration of apartheid. 
As we meet today, unilateralism and protectionism are 
on  the  rise,  posing  severe  challenges  to  the  United 
Nations-centred  contemporary  international  system. 
The international community must stand united under 
the  umbrella  of  multilateralism,  uphold  the  central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs 
and  provide  more  predictability  and  stability  in  this 
turbulent world.
The path of dialogue and reconciliation is the sure 
way  towards  peace.  Mr.  Mandela  was  committed  to 
political  negotiation  as  a  means  of  advancing  peace 
18-29599
53/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
and reconciliation in South Africa. He set an example 
for countries and regions in conflict on how to achieve 
national reconciliation and reconstruction. In the face of 
complex hotspot issues and rising regional conflicts, the 
parties concerned should use dialogue and consultation 
to  resolve  disputes  and  disagreements,  pursuing 
inclusive dialogue that accommodates the interests and 
legitimate concerns of all parties. Development is the 
foundation for the consolidation of peace.
Mr. Mandela once said that overcoming poverty is 
not  a  gesture  of  charity  but  an  act  of  justice.  Indeed, 
the elimination of poverty constitutes the protection of 
basic human rights, because while poverty exists there 
can  be  no  genuine  liberty.  His  words  are  still  highly 
relevant today. Many of the world’s problems have their 
root causes in poverty and can be truly resolved only 
through development. The world must address both the 
symptoms  and  the  root  causes  of  conflict,  implement 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and help 
developing countries improve their people’s livelihoods 
and enhance development capacity so as to provide the 
basic foundations for sustainable peace.
Mr.  Mandela  was  a  pioneer  in  the  relationship 
between China and South Africa and made important 
contributions  to  China’s  relations  with  South  Africa 
and with Africa as a whole. Together, China and Africa 
are  now  a  community  with  a  shared  future  working 
to  realize  win-win  cooperation.  Ensuring  unity  and 
cooperation with African countries is not only a major 
cornerstone  of  China’s  foreign  policy  but  also  its 
firm  and  long-term  strategic  position.  The  Forum  on 
China-Africa  Cooperation  recently  held  a  successful 
summit in Beijing, the best way for us to commemorate 
Nelson  Mandela.  The  summit  brought 
together 
Chinese and African leaders to discuss future plans for 
Chinese-African  relations  and  to  draw  up  a  blueprint 
for  China-Africa  cooperation.  President  Xi  Jinping 
proposed that China and Africa work together to build 
an even closer community with a shared future and a 
focus  on  eight  major  initiatives.  The  summit  ushered 
in a new era for China-Africa cooperation and opened 
up  broader  prospects  for  South-South  cooperation, 
providing strong momentum for world stability, peace 
and development.
We  call  on  all  countries  to  view  the  centenary  of 
Nelson  Mandela’s  birth  as  a  new  starting  point  and 
today’s Peace Summit as a new opportunity to jointly 
build a community with a shared future for humankind 
and a world of lasting peace and universal security.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Denis Moses, Minister for Foreign and 
CARICOM  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago.
Mr.  Moses  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  speak  at  this 
historic  Peace  Summit  by  which  the  international 
community commemorates the centenary of the birth of 
the activist, leader, nobel laureate and former President 
of  South  Africa,  Nelson  Mandela.  Nelson  Mandela 
was one of the most eminent leaders of our generation. 
We  salute  him  as  a  freedom  fighter  and  an  icon  of 
reconciliation. His life and legacy are testament to the 
purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations, that is, to maintain international peace 
and security and promote and protect human rights.
We  cannot  but  be  reminded  of  his  powerful 
statement that:
“The  world  remains  beset  by  so  much  human 
suffering, poverty and deprivation. It is in your hands 
to make of our world a better one for all”. 
to  resolve  conflicts 
That  is  the  very  reason  we  are  gathered  at  the 
United  Nations  and  the  very  reason  that  States 
subscribe  to  multilateral  diplomacy.  Mr.  Mandela 
encouraged  nations 
through 
diplomacy  and  reconciliation.  As  President  of  South 
Africa, he advocated that his country’s foreign policy 
be based on human rights. He believed in non-violence 
and  negotiation  as  means  for  solving  disputes.  That 
culture of peace is important for small States such as 
Trinidad and Tobago that must rely on the international 
rule of law, under strict observance by all States, and 
the purposes and principles laid down in the Charter of 
the United Nations, in order to guarantee their right to 
a secure, sovereign and peaceful existence.
In  2004,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  had  the  distinct 
honour  of  welcoming  Nelson  Mandela  to  its  shores. 
Among the many issues that we discussed, the role of 
sport in creating a culture of peace, as well as gender 
equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women,  featured 
prominently  on  the  agenda.  In  2014,  a  park  in  our 
capital city of Port of Spain was renamed in his honour. 
Mr.  Mandela’s  memory  therefore  lives  on  in  Trinidad 
and Tobago. We pay tribute to Mr. Mandela’s foresight, 
as  evidenced  in  the  words  “peace  is  the  greatest 
weapon for development that anyone can have”. In that 
connection,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  renew  its  commitment  to  the  full 
54/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Finally,  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
and  effective  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  and  to  reaffirm  our  pledge 
to  leave  no  one  behind.  We  also  look  forward  to  the 
activities  to  be  convened  within  the  framework  of 
the  2019-2028  Nelson  Mandela  Decade  of  Peace  and 
commit to actively participating in those initiatives.
reaffirms 
its 
commitment  to  honouring  Nelson  Mandela’s  legacy 
and  continuing  to  abide  by  his  values  and  selfless 
dedication  to  the  service  of  humankind.  We  call  on 
the international community to renew its commitment 
to  global  peace,  conflict  prevention  and  resolution, 
peacebuilding, the promotion and protection of human 
rights, and development. Like Madiba, as Mr. Mandela 
was fondly known, may we also commit to doing our 
part  by  leaving  this  world  a  better  place  before  we 
depart it.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Everly Paul Chet Greene, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs,  International  Trade  and  Immigration 
of Antigua and Barbuda.
Mr. Greene  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Antigua  and 
Barbuda joins the rest of the world at this prestigious 
Peace  Summit  and,  in  particular,  pays  homage  to 
Nelson Mandela, known as Madiba. Let us find within 
ourselves  the  resolve  to  confront  the  threats  to  peace 
for  humankind  in  all  their  dimensions,  a  lesson  that 
Mandela taught us by example and to which we are all 
great heirs.
Confronting  the  root  causes  that  threaten  peace 
is  by  no  means  an  easy  task.  However,  the  increased 
attention  we  are  seeing  to  some  of  the  most  deep-
rooted  problems  facing  the  international  community 
today  gives  us  hope.  Unfortunately,  the  consideration 
of peace only comes in the wake of the indescribable 
horrors  that  are  caused  by  humankind’s  stubborn 
clinging  to  old  patterns  of  behaviour.  But  as  we  look 
around  our  global  community,  we  ask  ourselves 
what  we  can  do  to  solve  the  many  problems  we  face. 
How  can  we  find  and  maintain  the  peace  that  we  so 
genuinely and passionately desire? Today I implore us 
to ask ourselves, not as individuals, but as members of 
the  General  Assembly:  what  is  peace?  Our  objective 
brainstorming  should  leave  us  positively  resolved  to 
find the answer to that all-important question.
Allow me to share with the Assembly some elements 
of what peace entails for the small micro-island State of 
Antigua and Barbuda. Peace means respect for human 
rights and the differences of others. It means ensuring 
the  protection  of  women,  children,  the  elderly  and 
the disabled. Peace is devoid of the greed that ends in 
unparalleled  wealth  for  a  few  and  nauseating  poverty 
for  the  many.  Peace  means  global  health  awareness, 
protection  and  accessibility  for  all.  Peace  encourages 
democracy  for  global  citizens  through  non-violent 
change  and  non-interference  in  the  application  of 
democracy by sovereign States. Peace is the elimination 
of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  control  of  small  arms. 
Peace  is  the  absence  of  violence  and  the  acceptance 
of  differences  in  race,  gender  and  religion.  Peace  is 
a  position  from  which  to  value  the  limits  of  nature’s 
resources. It is the absence of the ignorance and short-
sightedness that selfishly plunder Earth’s plenty. Peace 
is the understanding that climate change is real and that 
sustainability should be our top priority. Peace means 
fair trade, equality, equity in globalization and the right 
to development.
The  time  has  come  for  us  to  act  decisively, 
notwithstanding the limitations of the Assembly. When 
we have been called on in the past to act as a community 
of nations, we have risen to the occasion. We have given 
hope and protection to millions the world over through 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime  of  Genocide,  and  by  challenging  all  forms  of 
discrimination based on race, sex or religious belief and 
upholding the rights of the child and the empowerment 
of women, to name but a few examples.
As we focus on peace and its contributing factors, it 
would be remiss of me if I did not recall the International 
Decade for People of African Descent and the ongoing 
efforts with respect to reparatory justice. We can do so 
much more if we take a stand. As the indomitable Nelson 
Mandela remarked, “Do not look the other way; do not 
hesitate. Recognize that the world is hungry for action, 
not words. Act with courage and vision.” As Mandela 
went on to note, “sometimes it falls upon a generation 
to be great. You can be that great generation.”
I  am  heartened  by  the  adoption  of  the  political 
declaration (resolution 73/1) of the Peace Summit and 
the General Assembly’s recognition that peace can be 
achieved universally. We can be that great generation.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Gilles  Tonelli,  Government  Adviser 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the 
Principality of Monaco.
18-29599
55/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Mr.  Tonelli  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit  brings  us  together  to 
celebrate the legacy of an extraordinary man who has 
become  a  symbol  of  the  struggle  against  oppression 
and  injustice  around  the  world.  It  is  particularly 
symbolic  that  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  Nelson 
Mandela  coincides  with  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the adoption by the General Assembly of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
Throughout  his  life,  Nelson  Mandela  worked 
tirelessly, risking his own life, for tolerance, dialogue, 
peace and justice. After 27 years on Robben Island, his 
courage enabled him to reject revenge and instead seek 
dialogue  and  reconciliation.  Not  only  was  apartheid 
ended, but Nelson Mandela became a statesman and a 
legend in his lifetime.
The troublemaker who won the 1993 Nobel Peace 
Prize  for  his  moral  and  political  struggle  said  that  “a 
man does not become a freedom fighter in the hope of 
winning  awards”.  Whether  through  the  establishment 
of his foundation in 1999 or the creation of The Elders 
in  2007,  Nelson  Mandela  never  stopped  working  to 
resolve  the  crises  that  destabilize  our  societies  and 
endanger humankind. I would like to conclude with a 
quote from Nelson Mandela that he made during a visit 
to Monaco:
“Sport  has  the  power  to  change  the  world.  It 
has the power to inspire. It has the power to unite 
people  in  a  way  that  little  else  does.  It  speaks  to 
young people in a language they understand.”
Their  Serene  Highnesses  Prince  Albert  II  and  his 
wife  Princess  Charlene,  both  Olympians,  continue 
to  maintain  that  message  of  hope  through  their 
charitable actions.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Mamadi  Touré,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  for  Guineans  Abroad  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea.
Mr.  Touré  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, I would like to convey to the General Assembly 
the  sincere  regrets  of  President  Mr.  Alpha  Condé  of 
Guinea,  who  wanted  to  participate  in  this  important 
high-level  meeting  but  was  unable  to  do  so  owing  to 
prior engagements.
The  Republic  of  Guinea  is  delighted  to  be  able 
to  participate  in  this  meeting  on  peace,  to  which  that 
great son of Africa Nelson Mandela dedicated his life. 
His  long  struggle  against  every  form  of  oppression, 
injustice,  racism  and  discrimination  represents  a 
shining light for the whole of humankind in its quest for 
a world of fairness and shared prosperity. Thanks to his 
resilience and his keen sense of forgiveness and human 
dignity,  he  was  able  to  build  a  pluralistic  society  in 
which every sector of his nation could live in harmony. 
That  humanist  vision,  which  guided  him  throughout 
his  journey,  enabled  him  to  transcend  the  stigma  of 
apartheid and to achieve the national reconciliation and 
stability that characterize South Africa today.
This  Peace  Summit  is  being  held  against  an 
international  backdrop  of  routine  violations  of  the 
foundations of peace. We are witnessing an increase in 
terrorism, violent extremism and intolerance. The life 
of Madiba is a lesson for our current generations and 
those of the future, and from now on it is up to us take 
ownership  of  his  virtues  in  pursuit  of  a  better  world, 
in  which  dialogue,  agreement  and  the  acceptance  of 
others  are  the  watchwords  for  our  collective  action. 
In  the  struggle  to  promote  the  peace  we  need  for 
development  and  the  benefit  of  our  peoples,  we  have 
the responsibility to promote and strengthen the role of 
the United Nations as represented by its purposes and 
principles.  The  meeting  that  brings  us  together  today 
is all the more symbolic because it coincides with the 
seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  warmly  welcoming 
the  political  declaration  that  we  have  adopted  today 
(resolution 73/1).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammadu 
Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
President  Buhari:  It  is  indeed  a  great  honour  to 
participate  in  this  historic  event  reflecting  on  global 
peace  and  commemorating  the  centenary  of  the  birth 
of  Nelson  Mandela,  a  man  whose  life  symbolized 
uncommon  humility, 
and 
forgiveness. Our sincere appreciation goes to President 
Cyril  Ramaphosa,  of  South  Africa,  and  Prime 
Minister Leo Varadkar, of Ireland, and their teams for 
nurturing  and  finalizing  the  political  declaration  that 
we  have  adopted  today  (resolution  73/1)  and  that  will 
undoubtedly  set  forth  commitments  that  will  honour 
the legacy of Nelson Mandela.
compassion, 
courage 
We  are  witnessing  a  time  in  which  the  world  is 
facing diverse challenges that range from conflicts to 
56/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
climate  change,  terrorism,  desertification,  poverty, 
arms trafficking and violent extremism. Yet it is also a 
time of great hope and renaissance. When he was facing 
the death penalty in April 1964, Nelson Mandela spoke 
from the dock at the end of his Rivonia trial and said:
“During my lifetime, I have dedicated myself 
to  this  struggle  of  the  African  people.  I  have 
fought against white domination and I have fought 
against  black  domination.  I  have  cherished  the 
ideal of a democratic and free society in which all 
persons  live  together  in  harmony  and  with  equal 
opportunities. It is an ideal that I hope to live for 
and  to  achieve.  But  if  needs  be,  it  is  an  ideal  for 
which I am prepared to die.”
It is in the context of that ethos of the great Mandela 
that  we  are  adopting  today’s  declaration.  We  must 
therefore  make  concerted  efforts  to  foster  a  just, 
peaceful,  prosperous,  inclusive  and  fair  world  and 
revive  the  values  for  which  Nelson  Mandela  stood  by 
placing  human  dignity  at  the  centre  of  our  actions. 
This  centenary  celebration  is  a  way  for  us  to  reflect 
on  the  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela  and  his  unwavering 
advocacy  for  human  rights,  social  justice  and  peace. 
It  also  affords  us  the  rare  privilege  of  rededicating 
ourselves to the service of humankind by championing 
democracy,  conflict  resolution,  disarmament,  mutual 
respect,  reconciliation,  gender  equality  and  the  fight 
against poverty. There can be no doubt that in the quest 
to attain peace and development, the world will draw 
inspiration from the life of Nelson Mandela.
As  we  herald  the  Nelson  Mandela  Decade  of 
Peace,  Nigeria  calls  on  all  States  to  recognize  that 
the United Nations is built on the pillars of peace and 
security, development and human rights, which are the 
foundations of our collective well-being. We emphasize 
that 
there  can  be  no  peace  without  sustainable 
development  and  no  sustainable  development  without 
peace and full respect for human rights and fundamental 
freedoms for all.
Through 
recognize 
this  declaration,  we 
the 
contribution of women to the advancement of societies 
and to the prevention and resolution of conflict. We are 
committed  to  promoting  and  protecting  the  rights  of 
all women and to providing them with an environment 
that can enable them to realize their full potential. We 
also recognize that the inherent dignity and equal and 
inalienable  rights  of  all  peoples  of  the  world  are  the 
foundation  of  freedom,  justice  and  world  peace.  We 
declare that racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia 
and related intolerance present the very opposite of the 
noble  purposes  of  the  United  Nations.  We  recognize 
that  tolerance  of  cultural,  ethnic,  racial  and  religious 
diversity  is  essential  to  lasting  peace,  understanding 
and  friendship  among  peoples,  nations,  cultures 
and individuals.
As Mandela passes into history, we stand with him 
in  his  aspirations  for  a  better  world.  It  is  our  duty  to 
live  up  to  his  indelible  legacy  by  collectively  holding 
ourselves  accountable  to  the  values,  principles  and 
hopes of the Declaration and striving for a just, peaceful, 
prosperous, democratic, fair and inclusive world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Ahmed Awad Isse, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Mr. Isse (Somalia): It is a great honour for me to 
address the General Assembly at this Nelson Mandela 
Peace  Summit.  The  great  Mandela  embodied  the 
qualities  of  a  transformative  leader,  who  steered  his 
people with devotion and principled ideals and wielded 
the  strong  leadership  of  a  man  who  truly  understood 
the importance of healing a divided nation. He will be 
remembered as a magnanimous leader who symbolized 
humility,  compassion  and  courage,  and  as  an  icon 
of democracy.
Mandela’s persistence and determination to embark 
on his long walk to freedom, even when facing brutal 
situations, made it possible for the likes of Abdulrahim 
Abby  Farah,  the  former  Permanent  Representative  of 
Somalia to the United Nations, who headed the United 
Nations Special Committee against Apartheid, to spring 
into action to end the indignity of apartheid.
Mandela  left  us  many  legacies.  The  memorable 
event of the final game of the Rugby World Cup hosted 
by  South  Africa  in  1995  served  as  a  pivotal  moment, 
not only for the people of South Africa but for the whole 
world. Nelson Mandela rallied national support for the 
game  by  emphasizing  the  importance  of  supporting 
the national team as an act of unity. For six weeks he 
worked  tirelessly  to  present  his  case  to  the  people  of 
South  Africa  by  stressing  the  importance  of  oneness, 
harmony and peace. On that day in 1994, the spectators 
all  stood  together  chanting  the  name  of  a  revered 
leader — Mandela, Mandela, Mandela. All it took was 
one gesture by a great man to change the course of a 
nation’s history forever and usher in a sense of equality, 
18-29599
57/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
harmony and peace. Here I too would like to recall one 
of my favourite lines of Mandela,
“I  have  cherished  the  ideal  of  a  democratic  and 
free  society  in  which  all  persons  live  together  in 
harmony and with equal opportunities. It is an ideal 
that I hope to live for and to achieve. But if needs 
be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to die”.
Mandela’s unwavering commitment and his transformative 
leadership should inspire us all as world leaders.
It is gratifying to be able to recognize Abdulrahim 
Abby  Farah,  our  former  Permanent  Representative 
to  the  United  Nations,  who  passed  away  recently, 
for  his  contribution  in  presiding  over  the  release  of 
Mandela.  I  want  to  highlight  that  to  illustrate  the 
interconnectedness that exists between African nations 
and  indeed  humankind,  as  well  as  what  the  power  of 
unity and integration can accomplish. Mandela utilized 
those  very  ideals  to  develop  a  road  map  that  laid  the 
foundation for a resilient and democratic post-apartheid 
South  Africa.  Those  same  principles  and  values  of 
forgiveness,  social  integration  and  national  healing 
are  models  that  Somalia  is  embarking  on  as  we  work 
towards  advancing  peace,  security,  good  governance 
and building responsive and effective State institutions.
In  conclusion,  and  as  we  celebrate  the  legacy  of 
Madiba,  Somalia  supports  the  political  declaration 
(resolution  73/1)  of  this  important  Nelson  Mandela 
Peace Summit.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Dionísio  Da  Costa  Babo  Soares, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.
Mr.  Babo  Soares  (Timor-Leste):  Timor-Leste 
is  proud  to  join  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit 
in  commemoration  of  the  magnificent  legacy  of 
Nelson  Mandela  and  the  centenary  of  his  birth.  We 
honour  Nelson  Mandela  as  a  great  humanitarian  and 
for  his  dedication  and  contribution  to  world  peace, 
reconciliation and human rights.
For us, Nelson Mandela’s bequest as a great mentor 
of peace and reconciliation inspired Timor-Leste in our 
struggle for independence and in what we are today as 
a nation. His thoughts and principles encouraged us and 
gave us hope and confidence during our bleakest times, 
as we struggled against oppression and colonization on 
our journey to independence. We are deeply grateful to 
him and all his efforts to help us with our long-standing 
struggle  to  achieve  independence.  I  remember  very 
clearly the time he visited our resistance leader Xanana 
Gusmão in prison in 1995. That simple gesture was to 
prove an important turning point in our history. Nelson 
Mandela impressed on us the importance of dialogue, 
and the need to understand other political and cultural 
views in order to settle our differences.
We  realized  that  dialogue  was  an  extremely 
effective  way  to  reduce  tensions  between  us  and  our 
opponents.  That  resulted  in  the  understanding  that 
we  needed  to  end  the  fighting  in  order  to  find  peace 
among  ourselves.  Madiba’s  vision  of  reconciliation 
truly inspired us and provided a stepping stone for the 
creation of our own Commission for Reception, Truth 
and  Reconciliation,  which  listened  to  and  registered 
thousands  of  testimonies  of  suffering  and  loss,  and 
facilitated  traditional  community-based  reconciliation 
processes.  That  helped  us  to  heal  as  a  nation,  so  that 
we could move forward towards our future without the 
burden of the past. The Commission produced a report, 
Chega, which means “enough”.
Our  founding  fathers  also  wisely  chose  to  extend 
reconciliation  beyond  our  national  borders,  and  we 
were also inspired to establish a Commission on Truth 
and Friendship with our nearest neighbour, Indonesia, 
in  order  to  forge  strong  relations  and  long-lasting 
diplomatic  ties  between  us.  Madiba’s  legacy  also 
inspired  us  to  come  together  and  establish  the  Group 
of  7  Plus  platform  in  2010,  together  with  19  other 
countries  across  five  continents,  to  pursue  dialogue 
and  reconciliation  based  on  a  spirit  of  voluntarism, 
solidarity and cooperation.
In 
today’s  world,  where  we  see  protracted 
conflicts and great human suffering, Nelson Mandela’s 
dedication,  efforts  and  struggle  for  a  fairer,  more 
inclusive and peaceful world are an important reminder 
of  our  collective  responsibility  to  achieve  that.  We 
are  urged  to  action  by  his  commitment  to  women’s 
empowerment  and  his  emphasis  on  their  crucial 
role  at  the  peace  table,  as  well  as  the  importance  of 
listening to and involving our young people in all our 
national  processes.  The  political  declaration  that  we 
have  adopted  at  this  summit  (resolution  73/1)  should 
seal the responsibility of each one of us today to take 
all actions within our reach for peace.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency  Mr.  Milner  Tozaka,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and External Trade of Solomon Islands.
58/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Mr.  Tozaka  (Solomon  Islands):  Amid  all  the 
challenges and calamities that have gripped our world, 
the hosting of a peace summit is fitting and timely and 
rightly marks the centenary of the birth of a beacon of 
humanity, Nelson Mandela.
support  for  today’s  political  declaration  (resolution 
73/1),  I  would  like  to  cite  the  words  of  the  man  who 
stands as a beacon of peace and humanity today: “We 
commit ourselves to the construction of a complete, just 
and lasting peace.”
As global leaders, we have the ultimate responsibility 
to  ensure  that  the  generations  that  succeed  us  do  not 
inherit a world of full of fear and depredation. We must 
rather  use  every  possible  means  to  enable  peace  to 
prevail in all that we do. We must strive to eliminate 
conflict  by  building  bridges  and  forging  partnerships 
and  relationships  despite  our  differences.  Since  its 
inception, the United Nations has continued to actively 
advocate from a platform of peace. The Charter of the 
United Nations remains the firm compass by which we 
set  our  course  of  action.  It  compels  each  us  to  fulfil 
the shared duty to uphold peaceful coexistence within 
and  among  our  countries,  seek  to  settle  disputes  and 
use  intensive,  sustained  and  inclusive  dialogue  as  a 
first  resort  in  resolving  differences  and  conflicts.  If 
we  dedicate  our  attention  to  promoting  reconciliation 
among  our  peoples  and  between  our  nations,  bitter 
rivalries and warfare will serve no purpose.
Nelson  Mandela  epitomized 
the  values  and 
principles  of  humanity  and  global  citizenship.  He 
showed that genuine reconciliation can rid the world of 
discrimination and achieve peace. These are examples 
and values that we must encourage and follow through 
upon  with  firm  action  if  we  are  to  truly  honour 
his legacy.
Solomon Islands also subscribes to the notion that 
there is no single template for peace and that the United 
Nations must be responsive to individual situations on 
the ground. The seeds of peace germinate development, 
economic  prosperity  and  sustained  growth.  We  also 
recognize  that  the  prevailing  circumstances  in  our 
individual  countries  may  undermine  the  foundations 
on which sustained peace can thrive. Peacebuilding and 
nation-building are ideals that foster unity, particularly 
in  post-conflict  States.  I  speak  to  the  experience  of 
Solomon  Islands  as  a  post-conflict  State,  aspiring  to 
maintain  sustainable  peace.  The  peaceful  coexistence 
of  communities  and  peoples  must  not  elude  us  or  be 
taken for granted.
The  values  of  peace  and  humanity  are  priceless. 
Nelson Mandela’s life and ability to overcome adversity 
and ultimately triumph set a benchmark for leadership 
to which we all aspire. In pledging my Government’s 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to His 
Excellency Mr. Augustine Phillip Mahiga, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, East Africa, Regional and International 
Cooperation of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Mr.  Mahiga  (Tanzania):  I  would  like  to  express 
our  sincere  gratitude  to  South  Africa  and  Ireland  for 
their excellent organization of today’s important high-
level event. On behalf of my country, and on my own 
behalf, we thank the organizers and the United Nations 
for designating today as a day of commemoration.
We  are  here  to  recognize,  commemorate  and 
celebrate the lifetime contributions and ideals of Nelson 
Mandela as well as his practical involvement in realizing 
freedom, justice and peace in the world in general, and 
in Africa in particular. As we celebrate the centenary 
of his birth, we remind ourselves of his unique legacy 
of  a  spirit  of  patriotism  and  endurance  in  the  work 
that he accomplished during his lifetime. He did it in 
a spirit of reconciliation and of future participation in 
world  affairs.  We  look  to  this  day  as  a  day  of  peace 
and reconciliation, a day when human rights received 
a champion by the name of Nelson Mandela, and a day 
for the future prosperity of Africa and the world.
The  liberation  of  Africa  ushered  in  peace  and 
democracy.  Tanzania  is  proud  to  have  hosted  the 
headquarters  of  the  African  Liberation  Committee  of 
the Organization of African Unity and took an active 
part in the liberation struggle to emancipate our fellow 
African  brothers  and  sisters.  We  shall  not  forget  that 
Africa’s  struggle  for  independence  was  very  much 
inspired  by  the  late  Julius  Mwalimu  Nyerere  who,  in 
his  last  days,  worked  together  with  the  late  Nelson 
Mandela to lay the foundations of peace, reconciliation 
and stability in Burundi. To live up to the commitment 
of  helping  the  liberation  struggle,  Tanzania  not  only 
became the seat of the African National Congress and 
other liberation movements in Southern Africa, it has 
also  remained  committed  to  the  cause  of  freedom, 
peace  and  justice  throughout  the  world,  particularly 
under the banner of the United Nations.
Mandela was not only a committed leader; he will 
also  remain  an  icon  of  peace  for  the  world  and  for 
Africa,  showing  the  way  to  a  path  of  reconciliation 
18-29599
59/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
to  difficult 
issues  related 
and an option for peace rather than conflict in finding 
solutions 
to  conflicts. 
Furthermore, as we bring forth the political declaration 
we  have  adopted  today  (resolution  73/1),  let  us  all 
be  reminded  of  Mandela’s  long-standing  values  and 
humanitarian  service  in  conflict  resolution  and  the 
promotion and protection of human rights. I stand here 
to  reiterate  that  Tanzania  will  always  be  a  champion 
and active advocate for preserving his legacy and the 
maintenance  of  peace  in  the  spirit  of  Madiba  that  we 
are celebrating today.
I would like to conclude by encouraging current and 
future leaders to make use of the exemplary leadership 
of Nelson Mandela to encourage tolerant, harmonious 
societies  and  peaceful  coexistence.  His  last  words  to 
the General Assembly and to the United Nations should 
always serve as a lasting reminder of the important role 
of  the  Organization  in  the  liberation  of  South  Africa 
and  other  African  countries,  and  we  should  hold  him 
in  high  esteem  as  one  of  the  pillars  that  will  always 
underscore the significance of the United Nations as a 
citadel of peace for us today and for future generations.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker for this afternoon. In view of the late hour, we 
will now suspend this plenary meeting. We will hear the 
remaining speakers on Tuesday, 2 October, at 10 a.m.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  6.15  p.m.  on 
Monday, 24 September, and resumed at 10.10 a.m. 
on Tuesday, 2 October.
The President returned to the Chair.
The President (spoke in Spanish): Before proceeding 
to the item on our agenda, in keeping with established 
practice,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
General  Assembly  to  document  A/73/367/Add.1,  in 
which the Secretary-General informs the President of 
the  General  Assembly  that,  since  the  issuance  of  his 
communication contained in document A/73/367/Rev.1, 
Guinea-Bissau  has  made  the  payment  necessary  to 
reduce its arrears specified in Article 19 of the Charter.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
due  note  of  the  information  contained  in  document 
A/73/367/Add.1?
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
Assembly will now resume the Nelson Mandela Peace 
Summit in order to get to the end of the list of speakers 
from Monday, 24 September.
Before  we  begin  with  the  list  of  speakers,  I 
would  like  to  remind  members  of  some  important 
organizational  matters  pertaining  to  the  conduct  of 
plenary meetings. I would like to appeal to all speakers 
to  keep  their  statements  brief  and  concise  in  order  to 
make maximum use of the limited time we have for this 
high-level meeting. In order to enable all on the list of 
speakers  to  be  heard,  statements  should  be  limited  to 
three minutes when speaking in a national capacity and 
five  minutes  when  speaking  on  behalf  of  a  group,  as 
stipulated in resolution 72/243.
As  members  will  recall,  in  its  resolution  72/313, 
of  17  September,  the  General  Assembly  called  for 
speakers  to  adhere  strictly  to  the  time  limits  in  the 
Assembly, particularly during high-level meetings. To 
assist speakers in managing their time, a light system 
has been installed at the speaker’s rostrum. Participants 
with longer statements are encouraged to read a shorter 
version of their text and to submit their full statements 
to the Secretariat for posting on the PaperSmart portal.
Also in accordance with resolution 72/313, the “all 
protocol observed” principle is recommended, whereby 
participants are encouraged to refrain from the listing of 
standard protocol expressions during their statements. 
Bearing in mind the time limit, I would like to appeal 
to speakers to deliver their statements at a reasonable 
pace so that interpretation into the six official United 
Nations languages may be properly provided.
I appeal for speakers’ cooperation in observing the 
time limits for statements so that all those inscribed on 
the list can be heard in a timely manner.
I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Vladimir 
Makei,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of Belarus.
Mr.  Makei  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  I  would 
like  to  begin  my  statement  at  this  event  dedicated  to 
Nelson  Mandela,  one  of  the  most  famous  people  ever 
to  fight  for  Africa’s  independence,  with  some  of  his 
own words: “It is so easy to break down and destroy. 
The heroes are those who make peace and build.” It is 
no coincidence that our Peace Summit is named for a 
statesman  and  a  great  political  leader,  a  Nobel  Peace 
Prize  laureate  who  is  inextricably  linked  to  an  entire 
era of modern history. The ideals preached by Mandela 
made  the  international  community  believe  that  world 
60/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
peace might not be an illusion. Rather, it is a reality that 
we States Members of the United Nations can and must 
achieve together.
Unfortunately,  not  everybody  heeds  Mandela’s 
preaching.  Today  there  are  still  wars  and  geopolitical 
clashes  and  conflicts.  Decade  after  decade,  we 
continue  to  see  few  practical,  viable  results  from  the 
international efforts to prevent armed conflicts and free 
the world of weapons of mass destruction. Nor have we 
seen  significant  progress  in  the  bilateral  forums  for 
disarmament negotiations. In fact, the threats posed by 
nuclear  weapons  are  becoming  more  tangible  and  are 
having a direct impact on global and regional security. 
To take just one example, a mechanism as effective as 
that  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  is  still  a  long  way 
from  covering  every  region  of  the  world.  In  the  mid-
1990s Belarus proposed setting up nuclear-weapon-free 
zones  in  Central  and  Eastern  Europe.  At  the  time, 
unfortunately,  our  well-intentioned  impulse  and  call 
went  unheeded.  Perhaps  today,  with  the  world  closer 
than it has ever been to the threat of a major conflict, 
we should look at that initiative in a new light.
The  main  reason  for  the  growing  confrontations, 
which  represent  a  serious  obstacle  on  the  path  to 
universal peace and harmony, is the lack of trust, unity, 
mutual respect and solidarity between countries. If we 
are  to  attain  Nelson’s  Mandela’s  grand  ideals  in  the 
service of the entire international community, we must 
aim only for those goals and priorities that can engender 
unifying,  consensus-based  ideas  and  approaches  and 
enjoy universal support. And we can achieve that only 
by strengthening confidence-building measures among 
every  participant,  without  exception,  in  international 
efforts for peace. Today the world needs a new format 
for international relations, based on modern principles 
designed  to  ensure  peace,  security  and  cooperation. 
To  that  end,  Belarus  has  proposed  conducting  a 
broad  dialogue  aimed  at  transcending  the  current 
disagreements  between  States  and  developing  new 
principles for collaborative efforts that are acceptable 
to all. Belarus is ready to join and participate actively 
in  that  process,  and  will  continue  to  contribute  to 
regional security.
In conclusion, I would again like to cite some words 
of Nelson Mandela, which are as relevant today as when 
they were first spoken and which demand an answer.
“All of us should ask ourselves the question: have I 
done everything in my power to bring about lasting 
peace and prosperity in my city and my country?”
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  call  on 
His Excellency Mr. Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Nepal.
Mr. Gyawali  (Nepal):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like 
to commend you, Madam President, for convening this 
important summit to mark the centenary of the birth of 
Nelson Mandela.
I  feel  honoured  to  be  asked  to  offer  a  sincere 
tribute to an extraordinary statesman of our time. He 
was  indeed  the  epitome  of  struggle,  freedom,  human 
dignity  and  democracy.  The  strength  of  unity,  the 
power  of  discipline,  the  influence  of  humility  and 
the  results  of  diligence  are  the  lessons  that  we  can 
learn  from  his  life.  He  taught  us  the  importance  of 
reconciliation, forgiveness and compassion by forgiving 
even  those  who  had  taken  away  everything  he  had. 
Truth  eventually  emerges  triumphant,  no  matter  how 
strong the adversaries are, and a sense of fortitude and 
sacrifice defeats even the most invincible. His career, 
which spanned his years as an anti-apartheid activist to 
his visionary presidency, is a living testimony to that, 
and his ideals will continue to inspire humanity. In that 
regard, Nepal is proud to recall its service as a member 
of  the  Special  Committee  against  Apartheid  since  its 
inception and as its Vice-Chair for 25 years.
Nepal,  the  birthplace  of  Buddha,  the  apostle 
of  peace,  has  unwavering  faith  in  peace.  The  long 
contribution  we  have  made  to  United  Nations  peace 
operations testifies to that. Nepal shares the vicissitudes 
of  Africa’s  revolutionary  past.  Our  history  has  been 
marked  by  long  struggles  against  the  aggression  of 
imperialists; authoritarian regimes and socioeconomic 
and political oppression, and by our efforts to cement 
our most recent peace process. The Nepali people have 
shown exemplary resilience in the pursuit of peace. Our 
political  forces  have  exhibited  wisdom  and  chosen  a 
path of peaceful solutions to conflict through dialogue 
and accommodation, ideals embraced by the late Nelson 
Mandela. Our home-grown, nationally owned and led 
peace process helped us to make a successful transition 
to becoming a stable, peaceful State after the holding 
of peaceful democratic elections under the Constitution 
adopted by our people’s representatives.
18-29599
61/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Every  conflict  situation  is  unique  and  demands 
context-specific solutions. Just as there is no universal 
model for conflict resolution, there is no single model for 
addressing issues of peace and justice. The main thrust 
of our peace process has been to achieve reconciliation 
by healing the wounds left by conflict. We believe that 
as  long  as  the  parties  to  a  conflict  choose  to  address 
accountability  issues  through  a  functioning  national 
justice  system  and  to  seek  accommodation  through 
reconciliation, it is unnecessary to have recourse to the 
international justice system. That is our understanding 
of  paragraph  19  of  the  political  declaration  we  have 
adopted  (resolution  73/1).  Nepal  has  allowed  the 
independent  transitional  justice  process  to  take  its 
course, in accordance with our laws. We are now well 
on the way to reconciliation by ensuring social justice, 
nurturing  an  inclusive  society  and  delivering  good 
governance.  Nepal  reaffirms  its  faith  in  the  values  of 
world peace and stands ready to share our experiences 
of our successful peace process.
As I am sharing this success story with the Assembly, 
conflicts  around  the  world  continue  unabated.  The 
aspirations  of  millions  for  equality,  justice,  peace 
and  development  continue  to  elude  us,  seven  decades 
after  of  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations.  Our 
commitment  to  forgiveness,  reconciliation,  humanity 
and peace, not just in words but in actions, would be a 
true tribute to Madiba.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  give 
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Oquist  Kelley, 
Minister and Private Secretary for National Policies of 
the Presidency of the Republic of Nicaragua.
Mr. Oquist Kelley (Nicaragua) (spoke in Spanish): 
It  is  an  honour  for  Nicaragua  to  participate  in  this 
historic Nelson Mandela Peace Summit in honour of the 
centenary of the birth of that giant of humankind and 
lover of inclusion, democracy, tolerance and peace. We 
endorse the theme and the political declaration of this 
Summit, which reflects the values of Nelson Mandela, 
in particular where it says,
“We also reaffirm our commitment to upholding 
the sovereign equality of all States, respect for their 
territorial  integrity  and  political  independence 
and  the  duty  of  Member  States  to  refrain  in  their 
international  relations  from  the  threat  or  use  of 
force in any manner” and “non-interference in the 
internal affairs of States.”
The  Sandinista  people’s  revolution  served  as  a 
source  of  inspiration  to  Nelson  Mandela,  who  said 
that  the  Sandinista  revolution  gave  South  Africans 
confidence  in  their  own  struggle  when  they  saw  the 
difficult circumstances in which the Sandinistas fought 
for  change  in  Nicaragua,  and  that  greatly  encouraged 
them.  In  1991  there  was  a  historic  meeting  between 
Nelson  Mandela,  President  of  the  African  National 
Congress; Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, National President 
of the Workers’ Party of Brazil; and Commander Daniel 
Ortega Saavedra, General Secretary of the Sandinista 
National  Liberation  Front  of  Nicaragua,  accompanied 
by  our  current  Vice  President,  Ms.  Rosario  Murillo 
Zambrana.  At 
that  meeting  Mandela  described 
Commander  Daniel  Ortega  as  a  hero  in  South  Africa 
and expressed his certainty that he was a hero for all the 
democrats  and  progressives  of  the  world.  He  assured 
the Commander of his full support for the Sandinistas, 
as  a  progressive  force  that  deserved  to  be  supported 
by all.
At  Madiba’s  passing,  the  President  Commander 
Daniel Ortega Saavedra wrote,
“The  world  says  farewell  to  a  great  man,  a 
myth, a legend, a part of the heritage of Africa and 
of humankind. Nelson Mandela lived every day of 
his life fighting consistently for peace, brotherhood 
and  human  dignity.  We  feel  the  enormous  loss 
that  his  death  represents  for  his  heroic  people 
and  for  African  peoples  in  general.  Mandela  was 
their leader in their greatest battles. We know his 
legacy will prevail and that his life will continue to 
inspire those of us who believe that a better world 
is possible.”
Nelson Mandela was a great friend to our Sandinista 
revolution  and  to  the  people  of  Nicaragua.  During 
the  95  years  of  his  life  he  made  history,  bequeathing 
to  us  principles,  values  and  exemplary  practices. 
In  these  times  of  struggle  against  discrimination, 
racism,  oppression  and  disrespect  for  the  dignity 
and  self-determination  of  peoples,  his  testimony  of 
commitment grows every day, becoming a standard for 
all of us who love freedom and recognize the inviolable 
human condition.
Despite  the  fact  that  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean  we  have  reiterated  our  will  to  reaffirm 
ourselves  as  a  zone  of  peace  and  sustainable 
development,  the  intentions  of  certain  countries  to 
implement  their  destabilizing  plans  and  coups  d’état 
62/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
against  our 
legitimate  Governments  persist.  The 
legitimate  Government  of  Commander  Daniel  Ortega 
has  recently  been  a  victim  of  destabilizing  plans  and 
an attempted coup d’état. That failed coup attempt has 
now  been  defused  and  defeated  by  the  courage  and 
conviction of the people of Nicaragua themselves. Since 
July, victorious, they have restored the peace and calm 
that we won with great effort over the past 11 years.
Truth  is  triumphing  over  the  lies  and  deception 
levelled at the Government of Nicaragua. Our country 
has resumed its trajectory towards the peace, stability, 
security and development that we have been building. 
That  means  re-establishing  the  deteriorating  mutual 
social  trust  and  building  peace,  which  we  all  know 
is  more  than  the  absence  of  violence.  Moreover,  it 
also  requires  national  reconciliation,  which  President 
Nelson Mandela achieved in South Africa and President 
Ortega  accomplished  among  the  national  opponents 
in  the  counter-revolutionary  war  of  the  1980s.  The 
fact  that  reconciliation  was  achieved  under  President 
Ortega’s leadership following the 10-year war inspires 
confidence that it will be possible to again bring about 
a culture of peace and reconciliation, thereby ensuring 
Nicaragua’s  future  development  and  security  in  a 
culture of peace.
In conclusion, the message that we bring from our 
free Nicaragua, where we continue to fight the shared 
battles  for  a  world  of  peace,  harmony  and  coexisting 
cultures and for human diversity, is this: we pay tribute 
to the heroic people of the South Africa Mandela left 
us,  whose  tremendous  achievements  of  reconciliation 
and solidarity continue to inspire and encourage us as 
well as the world. Long live Nelson Mandela. Long live 
reconciliation and peace.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of Burkina Faso.
Mr.  Tiare  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French): 
Burkina Faso is delighted to take part in this Summit 
convened in honour of our icon, Nelson Mandela.
Following  the  adoption  by  the  African  Union  of 
the  2014-2024  Madiba  Nelson  Mandela  Decade  of 
Reconciliation  in  Africa,  today  it  is  the  turn  of  the 
United Nations, through the General Assembly, to adopt 
on  24  September  the  political  declaration  declaring 
the  period  2019-2028  the  Nelson  Mandela  Decade  of 
Peace (resolution 73/1). The joy with which the political 
declaration  was  adopted  amply  affirms —  were  there 
need to do so — the great admiration and high regard 
of the United Nations for the critical role that President 
Nelson Mandela played both in his country and beyond.
At  this  very  moment,  as  I  speak  on  behalf  of  my 
country,  Burkina  Faso,  I  am  thinking  not  only  of  all 
countries  that  are  dealing  with  hotbeds  of  conflict 
but  also  especially  of  all  the  people  —  civilians  and 
servicemen  —  who  risk  their  lives  daily  in  theatres 
of  operations  for  the  cause  of  peace  in  the  world.  I 
particularly  spare  a  sincere  thought  for  the  peoples 
of  the  Sahelo-Saharan  region,  where  peace  is  now 
disturbed  by  an  asymmetrical  war,  imposed  by  evil 
terrorist forces whose ultimate goal is to destabilize our 
countries and undermine our development efforts.
The pursuit of peace is ongoing. An analysis of the 
current world situation clearly shows us that peace in the 
twenty-first century is inevitably the main quest of our 
generation. The greatest legacy that we could leave to 
future generations is to lay the foundations today for its 
effectiveness and sustainability. From that standpoint, 
Nelson Mandela’s life, struggle and sacrifices must be 
the guiding lights for all leaders and at all levels.
On  24  September,  Nelson  Mandela  inspired  more 
than  100  Heads  of  State  and  Government,  who  spoke 
from  this  rostrum.  Everything,  or  almost  everything, 
has  been  said  about  Nelson  Mandela,  a  man  of 
exceptional  qualities  and  a  great  leader  of  our  time, 
who taught us that, whatever the situation, it is always 
possible to forgive.
Mr.  Beleffi  (San  Marino),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
What  Mandela  would  ask  and  expect  of  us  today 
is to move from words to deeds through our behaviour 
in following in his steps. The political declaration that 
we  adopted  reminds  us  all  of  our  role  in  redoubling 
our  efforts  for 
international  peace  and  security, 
development  and  human  rights  and  to  build  a  just. 
peaceful, prosperous, fair world that is open to all and 
that  revives  the  values  defended  by  Nelson  Mandela. 
Our Organization, the United Nations, has a key role to 
play in that regard.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Eswatini.
Mr.  Kunene  (Eswatini):  It  is  an  honour  for  me 
to  address  this  high-level  plenary  meeting  of  the 
General Assembly to commemorate the centenary of an 
icon — Nelson Mandela, the first black President of the 
Republic of South Africa, who was born on 18 July.
18-29599
63/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
As  evidenced  by  our  gathering  here  today,  we 
further  attest  to  the  fact  that  Nelson  Mandela  was  an 
inspirational anti-apartheid revolutionary and a human 
rights advocate who was globally renowned. He won the 
Nobel Prize in 1993 for his advocacy for peace, stability 
and coexistence in South Africa. He sacrificed his life 
for  27  years  in  Robben  Island  prison  in  order  for  the 
people of South Africa to be liberated from apartheid. 
He  was  a  selfless  leader  in  our  time.  He  believed  in 
freedom for all and equal justice.
The  Kingdom  of  Eswatini  applauds  the  United 
Nations leadership for convening this merited gathering 
in the name of Mandela. His appeal transcended colour, 
creed,  age,  gender  and  race,  which  was  one  of  his 
greatest  lessons  to  humankind.  He  accorded  respect 
to  both  the  young  and  the  elderly.  As  we  celebrate 
his life, we are therefore called upon to live up to his 
legacy, which lives on to this day, and also to champion 
humanity and selflessness.
As  the  world  finds  itself  mired  in  uncertainty, 
we  believe  that  the  teachings  of  Madiba,  as  he  was 
affectionately  known,  would  ring  true  today.  To  that 
end,  we  note  with  sadness  that  one  of  Madiba’s  core 
values  —  peace  —  remains  elusive  in  some  parts  of 
the globe, including our own beloved continent, Africa. 
Conflict,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia,  poverty 
and inequality continue to haunt us.
It  is  instructive  how,  upon  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  in  1994,  Nelson  Mandela  sought  out  a 
conciliatory approach to his stewardship. He recognized 
that a divided people are not a desirable circumstance 
and did his utmost to heal the rifts that had developed 
with an unexpected and resolute kindness.
The  Kingdom  of  Eswatini  joins  the  world  in 
the  spirit  of  Madiba  to  reaffirm  its  commitment  to 
meaningful dialogue as an avenue towards preventing 
and resolving conflict for the maintenance of peace and 
security in the world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Jordan.
Ms. Bahous (Jordan): As we gather to honour the 
life and values of Nelson Mandela, I would like to start 
by  recalling  the  words  spoken  by His  Majesty  King 
Abdullah II when the great man of peace passed away. 
At that time, His Majesty said,
and development. We share with him a feeling of 
responsibility for a global future where all people 
reap  the  fruits  of  peace,  away  from  exclusion, 
poverty and conflict.”
Today,  we  salute  Nelson  Mandela  and  his 
outstanding qualities, his values and his dedication to 
the  service  of  humankind.  We  salute  his  unrelenting 
efforts to promote peace, justice, equality, democracy 
and human rights. We salute him today and every day 
as we work towards peace and stability in the Middle 
East  and  strive  to  find  a  solution  to  the  Palestinian-
Israeli conflict, which remains the crux of the problems 
in the region. That brave man, Mandela, described the 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict as the greatest moral issue 
of our time. Our freedom, he said, is incomplete without 
the freedom of the Palestinians.
The  only  path  to  ending  the  Palestinian-Israeli 
conflict  is  through  a  comprehensive  settlement  based 
on  the  two-State  solution,  which  guarantees  the 
establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State 
based on the 4 June 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem 
as  its  capital.  The  road  to  peace  starts  in  Jerusalem. 
That city of peace, which has suffered for too long from 
occupation,  will  always  remain  in  the  hearts  of  the 
billions  of  believers  around  the  world.  Jordan  is  very 
proud  of  the  historic  Hashemite  custodianship  of  the 
Islamic and Christian holy sites in Jerusalem, and we 
will  be  relentless  in  countering  all  attempts  aimed  at 
changing  the  historical  Arab,  Christian  and  Muslim 
identity of the Holy City.
Mandela’s  words  also  ring  true  when  it  comes  to 
many of the issues facing our region today. He once said,
“As long as poverty, injustice and gross inequality 
persist in our world, none of us can truly rest.”
Jordan,  as  the  largest  refugee-hosting  country  in 
the  world,  continues  to  work  with  the  international 
community to mobilize political and financial support 
to tackle such systemic injustices. Jordan will continue 
resolutely  to  mobilize  the  international  community 
to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East  and 
its services continue sustainably and uninterrupted, so 
that 500,000 Palestinian children can continue to go to 
school and thousands of others to receive the necessary 
social and humanitarian services.
“In  Jordan,  we  recall  Mandela’s  visit  to  our 
country  and  his  partnership  with  us  for  peace 
As  the  Syrian  crisis  enters  its  eighth  year,  we 
continue  to  advocate  for  a  comprehensive  political 
64/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
solution  that  is  accepted  by  all  components  of  Syrian 
society  —  a  solution  that  guarantees  Syria’s  unity, 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  and  the  safety  of 
all its citizens. The time has come for all parties to lay 
down their weapons and give peace a chance to thrive in 
a peaceful Syria where refugees can voluntarily return 
without  fear  to  rebuild  their  homes,  communities  and 
schools.  Jordan  is  fully  committed  to  peace  and  will 
continue to work with the international community to 
help resolve the many conflicts across our region and 
the world, and to help bring about regional and world 
peace and stability.
The world is facing an unprecedented global terrorist 
threat that seeks to divide us and destroy the common 
ideals that bind humankind together: tolerance, mercy, 
compassion  and  mutual  respect  —  the  very  values 
Mandela  to  which  dedicated  his  life.  The  only  way 
to defeat that scourge is for all of us to work together 
and  to  win  the  war  of  ideas  against  the  ideologies  of 
darkness and destruction. Our Summit today is about 
the  values  that  maintain  peace,  harmony,  coexistence 
and shared prosperity. Despite our differences, we can 
together defend and uphold those values. Mandela’s life 
is  a  testament  to  perseverance  and  conviction,  which 
can  create  miracles.  Together,  we  must  honour  his 
legacy and build a peaceful and prosperous future for 
all of humankind.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Benin.
Mr. Do Rego (Benin) (spoke in French): It is with 
pride that I take the floor on behalf of the delegation 
of  Benin  at  this  high-level  plenary  meeting  dedicated 
to the theme of world peace in honour of the centenary 
of the birth of Nelson Mandela. I welcome the fact that 
the General Assembly has included in its agenda prior 
to the opening of the general debate a commemoration 
of  this  great  African  icon  whose  legacy  is  shared  by 
all  humankind.  Who  better  than  Nelson  Mandela 
could embody the essential values on which the United 
Nations is based?
The  fight  against  all  forms  of  discrimination, 
the  defence  of  everyone’s  fundamental  rights,  the 
recognition of diversity as an asset, as well as tolerance, 
forgiveness, reconciliation and the struggle to recognize 
the  dignity  of  all  people,  all  form  the  cornerstone  of 
his  commitment  to  social  justice,  freedom  and  peace 
in South Africa. Through his struggle, Nelson Mandela 
not  only  changed  the  course  of  history  for  South 
Africa, but also contributed to changing the world for 
the  better.  He  left  us  a  lesson  on  the  power  of  peace 
and  reconciliation,  the  importance  of  forgiveness  and 
respect for the dignity of each and every human being.
Even  as  the  global  level  of  peace  continues  to 
deteriorate and inequality widens between countries; as 
climate change, rapid urbanization, food insecurity and 
water shortages aggravate the competition for resources, 
deepening  tensions  and  increasing  instability;  and  as 
despair seems to be on the rise everywhere, the legacy 
of Nelson Mandela reminds us that nothing is inevitable 
if we act boldly and that as long as we are able to rise 
above our circumstances, we can change the future.
In an Africa that sometimes doubts its capabilities, 
Nelson Mandela also teaches us that solutions are found, 
first and foremost, among the women and men of Africa 
who are resolute in shouldering our responsibilities. He 
has also left us the legacy of a culture of dialogue as 
our  principal  political  weapon,  rather  than  violence 
and  deadly  confrontation,  as  well  as  that  of  putting 
general interests first rather than those that are racist, 
faction-based,  ethnic  or  partisan.  Those  are 
the 
assets  that  allowed  my  country,  Benin,  to  implement 
a  peaceful  regime  change  in  1990  and introduce  an 
unprecedented  peaceful  formula  of  transition  through 
a coming together of national forces — a formula that 
was also adopted, with varying levels of success, by a 
dozen other French-speaking African States.
A long road remains to be travelled in Africa and 
around  the  world  in  order  to  achieve  greater  equality 
of opportunities, emancipation and social justice. The 
most  beautiful  homage  we  can  pay  to  this  illustrious 
person, Nelson Mandela, is to bear his message of hope 
and continue to uphold the values for which he struggled 
throughout  his  entire  life.  Africa  owes    immense 
gratitude to a man of such stature, whose name will be 
forever etched in the hearts and minds of Africans of 
every generation.
In these times of inertia, when we sometimes can 
be  insufficiently  bold,  Nelson  Mandela  remains  the 
personification  of  African  dignity  because  he  gave 
substance  to  the  dream  of  an  Africa  standing  tall, 
fully  itself,  that  brings  its  voice  and  experience  to 
the  development  and  humanization  of  our  planet.  It 
is  essential  that  Nelson  Mandela’s  story  be  taught  to 
all  children  in  Africa  and  around  the  world  and  that 
younger generations of Africans use it to nurture their 
willingness to act for the common good.
18-29599
65/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Cambodia.
Mr. Ke (Cambodia): I have the honour to address 
this Hall on the occasion of the United Nations Peace 
Summit in celebration of the centenary of the birth of 
Nelson Mandela.
In  his  life,  Nelson  Mandela  was  a  person  of 
strength  and  character  who  firmly  stood  in  the 
face  of  oppression,  ready  to  challenge  it  with  all  his 
determination and power. Today, he remains a symbol 
of  peace,  justice,  reconciliation  and  compromise.  He 
dedicated his life to creating a free and peaceful future 
for  the  people  of  South  Africa,  while  also  creating 
an  enabling  environment  for  sustainable  peace  and 
development for all.
Mandela’s legacy reminds us of the importance of 
working  together.  It  highlights  how  cooperation  and 
collaboration  can  lead  to  the  attainment  of  mutually 
beneficial  solutions  to  some  of  the  most  difficult 
problems that the international community faces today. 
As  we  declare  the  period  2019  to  2028  the  Nelson 
Mandela Decade of Peace, I would like to urge all States 
Members of the United Nations to work together in an 
ever closer manner to achieve our common objective of 
safeguarding a peaceful and prosperous future for all.
Indeed, over the past several years, we have set out 
ambitious goals for ourselves, aiming to address such 
priority issues as global security, hunger, poverty and 
climate change, inter alia. As we implement the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  we  must  keep  our 
people-centred  focus.  Cambodia  is  certain  that  such 
an  approach  will  unite  the  global  community  around 
our cause, advancing intercultural understanding while 
improving relations among States.
Nelson  Mandela  once  said  that  education  is  the 
most  powerful  tool  one  can  use  to  change  the  world 
for  the  better.  Cambodia  fully  agrees  with  this  view. 
My country is committed to lifting people up through 
education. In fact, our national investment in education 
programmes  has  brought  peace  and  stability  to  our 
country and contributed to a steadily growing economy 
that  has  averaged  7.7  per  cent  per  annum,  while  also 
aiding in the dramatic reduction of poverty rates.
Ensuring access to learning provides young people 
with the knowledge and skills necessary to participate 
as  full  members  of  global  society.  It  reduces  rates  of 
violence  and  extremism  and  contributes  to  engaged 
and  caring  young  people.  Investing  in  education 
infrastructure  and  opening  avenues  of  employment 
gives young people hope for the future, while growing 
sustainable, 
economies.  Nelson 
Mandela  was  clear  when  he  said  that  there  can  be  no 
keener  revelation  of  a  society’s  soul  than  the  way  in 
which it treats its children, and so it is incumbent upon 
us  to  ensure  that  our  children  live  free  in  peaceful, 
stable and prosperous societies.
people-centred 
As  the  global  community  sets  out  on  the  path 
towards the future we want, we would like to reiterate 
that  sustainable  development  cannot  be  realized 
without  peace,  and  peace  cannot  be  achieved  without 
sustainable development. Indeed, conflict prevention is 
the prerequisite for securing a safe and prosperous future 
for  our  children.  Accordingly,  the  global  community 
must  channel 
into  settling  disputes 
peacefully based on negotiation and compromise and in 
accordance with respect for sovereign equality.
its  energies 
In line with Nelson Mandela’s thinking that to live 
free is to live in a way that respects and enhances the 
freedom  of  others,  the  global  community  must  do  its 
utmost to fully respect the purposes and principles of 
the United Nations Charter, the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights and other such relevant instruments. 
This  will  contribute  to  peaceful  coexistence  among 
States  and  help  promote  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international level.
As  we  celebrate  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of 
Nelson Mandela, the Royal Government of Cambodia 
would like to reaffirm its commitment to peace. We are 
ready to work with all our partners to ensure that future 
generations live free in a stable and prosperous society.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the United Arab Emirates.
Mrs.  Nusseibeh  (United  Arab  Emirates):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank Ireland and the Republic of 
South Africa for their tireless efforts in facilitating the 
consultations for the political declaration adopted at this 
summit on the occasion of the centennial anniversary 
of the birth of Nelson Mandela (resolution 73/1).
In his autobiography, Nelson Mandela said that on 
his long walk to freedom, he discovered the secret that 
after climbing a great hill one only finds that there are 
so many more hills to climb. He dared not linger, for 
his long walk was not yet ended. We here at the United 
66/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Nations  are  all  too  cognizant  of  the  hills  we  have 
yet  to  climb.  In  today’s  world,  with  the  tremendous 
challenges and widespread crises that we face, we must 
remind ourselves of the values of tolerance, compassion 
and acceptance that bind us. These are the values that 
Mr.  Mandela  not  only  fought  for  but  embodied  in 
his  leadership.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  therefore 
deeply  values  the  opportunity  to  honour  leaders  such 
as Mandela for their humanity, leaders who fought to 
advance  these  values  and  bring  peace  and  justice  not 
only to their own societies, but also around the world.
Mr.  Mandela  sought  to  make  the  world  a  better 
place  and  champion  just  causes  and  human  rights  for 
all.  He  believed  in  the  rights  of  people  everywhere 
to  self-determination,  the  importance  of  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes and the imperative of abiding by 
the United Nations Charter and international law. These 
principles are the same ones that our leadership in the 
United  Arab  Emirates  believe  in  and  work  to  uphold 
around the world. In fact, Mr. Mandela shared a close 
personal relationship with the founding father and first 
President  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  His  Highness 
Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, which was based 
on  their  life-long  dedication  to  humanitarianism  and 
shared values that they worked to advance not only in 
their respective countries, but around the world.
Not  only  did  they  share  this  enlightened  vision, 
they  shared  a  birth  year:  2018  is  the  centennial  of 
both  Mr.  Mandela’s  and  Sheikh  Zayed’s  births.  Our 
nation  therefore  celebrates  the  shared  centenary  of 
these two great leaders this year, and on occasions like 
today’s, it is necessary not only to remind ourselves of 
the  values  and  principles  established  by  our  leaders, 
but  also  to  invest  in  these  values  so  as  to  strengthen 
our  international  efforts  to  build  peace,  strength  and 
security  and  to  fight  poverty,  racism  and  persecution 
wherever they exist.
To that end, the United Arab Emirates believes that 
we must focus on the following core principles espoused 
by Mr. Mandela. First, we must intensify efforts aimed 
at  combating  extremism  and  terrorism  and  promote  a 
culture  based  on  tolerance  and  acceptance.  Secondly, 
we  must  strengthen  diplomacy  to  resolve  conflicts, 
including 
confidence-building 
among Governments and support for the United Nations. 
Thirdly, we must empower women and young people to 
make them effective partners in building peaceful and 
inclusive societies. Fourthly, we must resolve the root 
causes of crises rather than simply managing them. In 
through  dialogue, 
this regard, we must promote innovation and the use of 
technology to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. Finally, we must renew the commitments 
of  States  to  international  law  and  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  which  includes  holding  States  that  violate 
principles and norms truly accountable for their actions.
The United Arab Emirates will continue to promote 
these steps through its foreign policy and international 
leadership  and  to  work  with  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  and  international  partners  to  advance 
development, prosperity and progress for all people and 
to build a more peaceful future for generations to come.
As Sheikh Zayed said,
“There is no glory without the glory of the country 
and  its  citizens.  We  have  to  be  proud  of  our 
forefathers, who were able to face the harshness of 
life  with  a  strong  will  and  dedication  to  shape  a 
better collective future”.
It is in precisely that spirit that today we honour Nelson 
Mandela,  who,  more  than  most  of  us  can  imagine, 
faced  the  harshness  of  life,  but  whose  compassion, 
righteousness  and  goodness  inspire  us  to  carry  his 
work forward.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Thailand.
Mr. Prongthura (Thailand): I am honoured to be 
here  today,  representing  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  at 
this gathering to commemorate Mr. Mandela’s selfless 
contribution to the greater good of humankind and to 
join  others  in  expressing  our  determination  to  follow 
in  his  footsteps  in  our  collective  pursuit  to  sustain 
global peace.
To achieve what Mr. Mandela started, we have to 
promote a culture of peace and non-violence. We have 
to  foster  mutual  respect,  tolerance  and  understanding 
among peoples. If and when conflict inevitably arises, 
our  efforts  to  bring  about  reconciliation  must  be 
based  upon  wisdom  and  truth,  not  on  repression  or 
suppression. True reconciliation must be accompanied 
by  acceptance  and  forgiveness.  Peace  will  stand  a 
better  chance  if  lessons  are  learned  and  mistakes  are 
not repeated.
We  must  realize  that  conflict  is  born  out  of 
human  minds  and  occurs  when  people  are  not  free 
of  fear  or  want.  To  prevent  and  to  end  conflict,  we 
must free people from fear. We must also free people 
18-29599
67/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
from  want,  and  we  need  to  protect  human  rights 
and  ensure  that  people  live  with  dignity.  We  need  to 
promote  development  so  that  humankind  can  reach 
its  potential.  We  must  also  recognize  that  peace  is 
not  just  about  the  absence  of  conflict.  Peace  can  be 
sustained only by addressing the root causes of conflict 
through inclusive and participatory dialogue. We must 
therefore  encourage  multi-stakeholder  engagement 
and constructive partnerships in which everyone has a 
chance to contribute actively to lasting peace and their 
own futures. We must also pass the values of sustaining 
peace  on  to  our  children,  for  they  are  the  agents  of 
change that will shape the future of this world.
To  keep  the  torch  of  Mr.  Mandela’s  aspiration 
burning, Thailand will always support the work of the 
United  Nations  on  sustaining  peace  and  sustainable 
development.  We  will  continue  to  work  to  realize 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  to  leave  no 
one behind.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Italy.
Mrs.  Zappia  (Italy):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to 
address this Peace Summit dedicated to the memory of 
Nelson Mandela, a man who shaped the history of our 
time.  He  truly  embodied  the  values  enshrined  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
In Madiba we do not only celebrate the unrelenting 
leader  of  the  struggle,  we  also  remember  him  for  the 
way he pursued peace and reconciliation with those who 
persecuted him the most, and for how he led the way to 
the refoundation of South Africa as the rainbow nation.
Throughout  his  life,  President  Mandela’s  actions 
were always guided by the objectives of ending war and 
maintaining peace and security in the world, affirming 
justice and social progress and promoting human rights 
and dignity. Protecting and promoting human rights is 
a  priority  for  Italy.  Italy’s  candidature  for  the  Human 
Rights Council for the term 2019-2021 is based on that 
commitment.  We  are  inspired  by  Nelson  Mandela’s 
example  in  our  commitment  against  all  forms  of 
discrimination; in promoting the rights of women and 
children;  implementing  the  universal  moratorium  on 
the  death  penalty;  promoting  religious  freedom  and 
protecting  the  rights  of  religious  minorities;  fighting 
against  human  trafficking;  promoting  the  rights  of 
persons  with  disabilities;  protecting  human  rights 
defenders; and protecting cultural heritage.
In  our  efforts  to  promote  the  dignity  of  the 
individual and fight human trafficking, we are among 
those that believe that migration is a global phenomenon 
that cannot be managed by one country alone. Building 
on  our  experience,  Italy  has  contributed  to  the  global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration, 
which is based on respect for the fundamental human 
rights of migrating persons, shared responsibility and 
true  partnerships  among  countries  of  origin,  transit 
and destination.
As  a  son  of 
the  African  continent,  Nelson 
Mandela  was  instrumental  in  laying  the  groundwork 
for  the  relationship  between  Africa  and  the  rest  of 
the  world.  Because  of  our  history,  geography  and 
cultural  traditions,  Italy  has  always  had  a  strong  and 
profound relationship with Africa. Over the years, our 
development cooperation has led us to devote significant 
resources to the continent and, because we believe in 
Africa’s future, Italy is the sixth-largest investor in the 
continent. Italy is also assisting many African countries 
with training and capacity-building programmes, from 
Libya to the Sahel and the Horn, in different areas, as 
identified  in  agreement  with  local  authorities  and  in 
full  respect  of  the  principle  of  African  ownership  of 
crisis management.
represents 
the 
highest-level 
The upcoming Italy-Africa ministerial conference, 
which 
structured 
framework  of  the  partnership  established  between 
Italy  and  Africa,  will  take  place  in  Rome  on  24  and 
25  October.  That  second  conference  will  be  a  further 
occasion to celebrate Nelson Mandela’s legacy. It will 
focus  on  Africa’s  economic  growth;  our  enhanced 
concerted efforts to promote peace on the continent; and 
the promotion of human development. That high-level 
dialogue  will  enable  us  to  strengthen  the  cooperation 
between  Italy  and  Africa  towards  reaching  the  goals 
of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  and 
Agenda 2063 of the African Union.
Today, I want to reaffirm Italy’s strong commitment 
to  building  on  Nelson  Mandela’s  legacy  as  a  driving 
force  of  our  collective  efforts  towards  peace,  justice 
and  prosperity.  On  the  centenary  of  his  birth,  I  wish 
to pay homage to all the women and men who walked 
together with him towards freedom and justice.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Myanmar.
68/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
U Aung Lynn (Myanmar): Allow me first to join 
other speakers in commending the President for having 
convened this very important Peace Summit.
to  endorse 
Myanmar  wishes 
the  statements 
delivered by the representative of Singapore, on behalf 
of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  and 
by  the  representative  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (see A/73/PV.5).
We also express our appreciation to the Permanent 
Representatives of South Africa and Ireland for having 
facilitated  the  political  declaration  adopted  at  this 
Summit (resolution 73/1). Myanmar pays tribute to the 
great contribution of Nelson Mandela, Madiba, for his 
long struggle for freedom in South Africa and for his 
aspiration  and  dedication  to  promoting  the  culture  of 
peace throughout the entire world.
As we honour the centenary of the birth of Nelson 
Mandela,  we  fondly  remember  his  words  on  peace 
and reconciliation:
“In  the  end,  reconciliation  is  a  spiritual  process 
which requires more than just a legal framework. 
It has to happen in the hearts and minds of people”.
Those  valuable  words  are  very  precious  to  us,  as 
Myanmar is working very hard to achieve lasting peace 
through national reconciliation with a view to building 
a democratic federal union.
Furthermore,  in  support  of  Nelson  Mandela’s 
efforts  to  achieve  the  total  elimination  of  nuclear 
weapons, Myanmar is pleased to inform the Assembly 
that we signed the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear 
Weapons  during  the  treaty  event  held  during  the 
seventy-third session of the General Assembly.
May  I  conclude  by  saying  that  the  people  of 
Myanmar will always remember Nelson Mandela as the 
champion of peace, democracy and social justice. We 
express our strong support for Madiba’s spirit of peace 
and  reconciliation,  which  will  remain  as  his  lasting 
legacy for our future generations.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Philippines.
Mr. Locsin (Philippines): It is an absolute honour 
and privilege to be here today at the Nelson Mandela 
Peace  Summit,  not  only  to  honour  one  of  the  most 
influential political figures that the world has seen, but 
also to commemorate his legacy as a freedom fighter, 
a nation-builder and a global icon through the political 
declaration that all Member States adopted this morning 
(resolution 73/1).
Nelson Mandela, or Madiba, embodied the highest 
ideals of humanity: courage and compassion, humility 
and  harmony,  intelligence  and  integrity,  respect  and 
reconciliation,  tolerance  and  a  total  commitment  to 
justice.  From  prisoner  to  President,  Mandela’s  larger-
than-life story is about the power of reconciliation. He 
demonstrated that hope is a powerful weapon, a peaceful 
force  for  peace.  He  displayed  strength  of  character 
and  steely  determination  to  overcome  apartheid.  He 
showed,  in  the  face  of  cruelty  and  injustice,  what 
is  truly  possible  when  the  rule  of  law  triumphs  over 
prejudice. It is said that Mr. Mandela credited his prison 
experience with teaching him the strategies that would 
make him President, for in weakness there is strength 
and in defeat, one finds the means to a greater victory.
Eighteen  years  ago,  New  York  City  warmly 
welcomed Mr. Mandela. Almost a million New Yorkers 
lined  the  streets  of  Brooklyn,  Manhattan  and  Queens 
to  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  man.  As  the  first  President 
of post-apartheid South Africa, Mr. Mandela delivered 
a  landmark  speech  before  the  General  Assembly, 
stating  that:
“The  millions  across  our  globe  who  stand 
expectant  at  the  gates  of  hope  look  to  this 
Organization  to  bring  them  peace,  to  bring  them 
life, to bring them a life worth living.” (A/49/PV.14, 
p. 10)
President  Mandela  paid  a  State  visit  to  the 
Philippines  in  March  1998.  Ever  since  then,  Filipinos 
have  looked  up  to  Mr.  Mandela  as  the  inspiration  for 
action  for  the  betterment  of  humankind.  He  never 
stopped  working  on  the  things  that  matter.  On  the 
occasion  of  his  birthday  in  July  2007,  Mr.  Mandela 
founded  The  Elders  in  Johannesburg  as  a  group  of 
independent global leaders. He mandated the group to 
support courage where there is fear, foster agreement 
where  there  is  conflict,  and  inspire  hope  where  there 
is despair.
Mr.  Mandela  embodied  the  highest  values  of  the 
United  Nations  —  social  justice,  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights,  the  fight  against  poverty 
and  discrimination  and,  always,  peace  and  freedom 
foremost. The life and legacy of Madiba is about self-
sacrifice, constructive reconciliation and an unwavering 
commitment  to  freedom.  These  are  pursuits  that  are 
18-29599
69/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
difficult to attain but, as Mandela might say, it always 
seems impossible until it is done.
The challenges for all of us remain: to envision all 
possibilities where none seems to exist and to continue 
to work for a just, inclusive and better world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Oman.
Mr.  Al  Towaiya  (Oman)  (spoke 
in  Arabic): 
Today I am addressing the Assembly on behalf of the 
delegation of my country, the Sultanate of Oman. We 
are participating in this important session focusing on 
global  peace  to  commemorate  the  birth  centenary  of 
the late Nelson Mandela, who was well known for his 
courage, humanity and tolerance.
We  participate  in  this  Summit  today  because  we 
have high regard for our relations with friendly South 
Africa.  We  commend  Mandela’s  strong  human  and 
ethical values, which made him an international leader 
who transcended his country and continent. He devoted 
himself to the service of humankind and humanitarian 
issues and to promoting the culture of peace throughout 
the world while supporting Arab causes, in particular 
the Palestinian question.
In that regard, I would like to mention that Nelson 
Mandela  paid  a  visit  to  the  Sultanate  in  1999,  during 
which  he  met  with  His  Majesty  Sultan  Qaboos  bin 
Said. That visit marked an important milestone in the 
bilateral  relations  between  the  Sultanate  and  South 
Africa — a relationship that we greatly value.
This Summit is an opportunity for us to reflect on 
the  life  and  legacy  of  the  late  Nelson  Mandela,  as  it 
reminds us of the responsibility of the United Nations 
to achieve and maintain peace.
A few days ago, my country underscored from this 
rostrum  that  dialogue  and  negotiations  are  the  best 
means of finding solutions to conflicts and that peace 
is  the  very  foundation  of  stability  and  development. 
Nelson Mandela affirmed this belief by saying:
discussion 
are 
and 
“Negotiations 
the 
greatest  weapons  we  have  for  promoting  peace 
and development”.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Ukraine.
Mr. Yelchenko (Ukraine): Ukraine appreciates the 
initiative to hold this Summit. It is a timely opportunity 
for  Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  leadership 
to  consider  measures  to  promote  peace,  security  and 
human  rights  and  their  interconnection,  as  well  as 
the  role  played  by  Nelson  Mandela  in  shaping  the 
modern world.
Mandela’s legacy proves that the power of personal 
courage,  integrity,  self-confidence,  self-sacrifice  and 
leadership can be much more powerful than the power 
of  a  country.  The  speech  that  Nelson  Mandela  gave 
the  day  he  walked  out  of  prison  reaffirmed  the  same 
demands  he  made  to  the  Government  on  the  day  he 
was sentenced to jail. After 27 years, he walked out of 
prison proud and unbroken. Despite 27 years in jail, he 
knew that anger could tear his country further apart, so 
instead he chose nation-building over revenge.
“Recognize that the world is hungry for action, not 
words. Act with courage and vision.”
These are the words of a true leader.
Ukraine is proud to always have been true friend 
and  defender  of  human  rights,  especially  at  the  time 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Africa’s  first  democratic 
presidential  elections,  in  1994,  when  Nelson  Mandela 
was  elected  President.  Ukraine  was  also  actively 
engaged in the activities of the United Nations Special 
Committee against Apartheid and served as Vice-Chair 
of that body for many years in ensuring the restoration 
of justice in South Africa.
In  this  connection,  let  me  recall  —  as  just  one 
element of this — the unique experience of Ukraine’s 
participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations 
in  Africa,  including  in  Sierra  Leone,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Liberia,  South 
Sudan and the Sudan.
Nowadays,  despite  foreign  aggression,  Ukraine 
is  continuing  with  its  proud  duty  as  a  contributor  to 
peacekeeping operations in the African region. Looking 
back on the more than 25 years of history of Ukraine’s 
participation in United Nations peacekeeping activities, 
I  am  particularly  proud  that  Blue  Helmets  from 
Ukraine were a part of the operations that contributed 
so  much  to  peace  in  Africa,  from  the  introduction  of 
robust peacekeeping in Côte d’Ivoire to the most recent 
success story, in Liberia. We remain a reliable partner 
of the United Nations and of Africa in this endeavour.
Furthermore, increased attention on the part of the 
Security Council to peacemaking and peacebuilding on 
the African continent was among the main priorities for 
70/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
Ukraine during its non-permanent membership in that 
body in 2016-2017.
Peace  and  security  and  respect  for  human  rights 
are closely linked. We support those who declare that 
human rights violations must be considered as an early 
warning of future instability and conflicts, and we are 
committed to ensuring that greater attention is given to 
human rights during discussions in the relevant United 
Nations formats. In this regard, Ukraine has consistently 
promoted  Human  Rights  Council  resolutions  on  the 
role  of  prevention  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights.
Turning back to Nelson Mandela, we are glad that 
his  heritage  continues  to  enrich  the  world,  even  after 
his passing. A true recognition of his personal strength 
was the adoption of the revised United Nations Standard 
Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners in 2015, 
also  known  as  the  Nelson  Mandela  Rules.  It  is  a  true 
honour for all of us to share the legacy of Madiba today.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Lithuania.
Ms.  Plepytė  (Lithuania):  It  is  an  honour  for  me 
to  participate  in  this  high-level  event  dedicated  to 
promoting  the  legacy  of  Nelson  Mandela.  Because  of 
his  determination  to  fight  for  what  is  right,  Nelson 
Mandela  has  become  a  synonym  for 
tolerance, 
non-discrimination, dialogue and reconciliation, peace 
and  stability,  respect  for  diversity  and  the  promotion 
of human rights. These are the values that humankind 
sorely needs in today’s world.
By  celebrating  the  life  and  legacy  of  Nelson 
Mandela, we are commemorating the anniversary of the 
most important human rights instrument, the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Nelson  Mandela 
devoted  his  life  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human  rights.  He  fought  against  racial  and  other 
forms of discrimination and promoted gender equality 
and  the  rights  of  children  and  people  in  vulnerable 
situations — all of the rights enshrined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights.
In looking at the legacy of Nelson Mandela to future 
generations, we should ask ourselves if we have done 
everything to preserve and promote human rights. Have 
we been able to step outside of our comfort zones and 
uphold the international principles of equality, justice 
and human dignity? These questions are essential today.
The  democratic  space  is  shrinking,  and  human 
rights are being denied by the falsification of security 
needs.  Populism  also  plays  a  part  when  human  rights 
are  limited  in  the  pursuit  of  fake  promises.  Neither 
sustainable peace nor security can be achieved without 
respect for human rights and those who defend them. We 
must recommit to the ideals enshrined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and revive the values that 
Nelson Mandela stood for.
Lithuania  is  committed  to  the  goals  set  out  in 
the  Political  Declaration  (resolution  73/1),  which  can 
provide  new  impetus  for  the  promotion  of  Nelson 
Mandela’s  legacy.  We  must  strive  for  just,  peaceful, 
prosperous, democratic and equitable societies based on 
the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights 
and freedoms. The best way to celebrate the centenary 
of  Nelson  Mandela’s  birth  is  with  a  commitment  to 
building total, just and lasting peace with unconditional 
tolerance,  understanding 
in 
our relations.
reconciliation 
and 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Latvia.
Mr. Pildegovičs (Latvia): It is an honour to be part 
of the commemoration of the legacy of Nelson Mandela 
on his centenary. He was a man of great wisdom and 
courage who has become a global symbol of freedom 
and peace. He continues to inspire all generations. It is 
very important that, at a time when we are facing many 
global challenges, we all come together to reflect on the 
much-needed global peace strongly pursued by Nelson 
Mandela  throughout  his  lifetime.  Latvia  supports  the 
political declaration adopted at this Summit (resolution 
73/1), and we hope that all countries will embrace the 
principles and values therein.
Peace cannot be taken for granted. It is at risk in 
many places around the globe, with conflicts, tensions 
and terrorism leaving serious wounds on our collective 
consciousness.  We  must  fight  for  peace.  We  must 
translate  our  commitments  to  end  conflicts  and  the 
devastation  of  our  peoples  into  clear  priorities  and 
concrete actions. Nelson Mandela said:
“It always seems impossible until it is done”
and
“real leaders must be ready to sacrifice all for the 
freedom of their peoples”.
18-29599
71/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
In  the  early  1990s,  Nelson  Mandela  rejected 
violence  and  steered  South  Africa  —  a  country  in 
turmoil  —  towards  a  negotiated  settlement  aimed  at 
ending the era of apartheid and lay the foundation for 
reconciliation  and  a  truly  inclusive  democracy.  These 
transformational  changes  in  South  Africa  occurred 
alongside  the  historic  liberation  of  the  former  captive 
nations  in  Central  and  Eastern  Europe.  During  the 
peaceful  and  non-violent  independence  movement 
known  as  the  Singing  Revolution,  the  peoples  of 
Latvia,  Estonia  and  Lithuania  ultimately  succeeded 
in  overcoming  the  brutal  foreign  occupation  and 
totalitarian  regime  that  had  lasted  for  more  than 
50 years.
Since the restoration of its independence and joining 
the United Nations in September 1991, Latvia has been 
a staunch supporter of international law and promoter 
of  democracy  and  human  rights.  These  principles  are 
fundamental  in  maintaining  an  international  order 
based  on  predictability,  stability  and  the  security  of 
States.  There  are  great  expectations  for  the  United 
Nations,  as  the  only  truly  universal  organization,  to 
meet  the  growing  challenges  to  peace,  development 
and human rights and deliver results effectively. Latvia 
is  a  strong  advocate  of  multilateralism  and  believes 
that  we  must  all  work  together  to  restore  trust  in  the 
multilateral  system’s  ability  to  deliver  solutions  to 
pressing global issues.
Latvia sees conflict prevention as the backbone of 
the United Nations agenda. As we mark the seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights, it is important to remind ourselves that human 
rights  and  the  promotion  of  tolerance  within  society 
are the best tools for the prevention of violent conflict, 
because inclusive societies guarantee peace and security. 
With  an  effective  and  accountable  justice  system  and 
institutions  in  place  and  with  fundamental  freedoms, 
including  freedom  of  speech  and  association,  every 
society can thrive. Latvia will continue to promote and 
protect these values both at home and internationally.
At 
the 
the  beginning  of 
twentieth  century, 
combatants  accounted  for  90  per  cent  of  conflict-
related  casualties.  Today  90  per  cent  of  casualties  in 
armed  conflicts  are  civilians.  Conventional  weapons 
kill approximately 500,000 people per year, 70,000 of 
them in conflict zones. These figures clearly prove that 
the  international  community  must  focus  not  only  on 
weapons of mass destruction, but also on conventional 
weapons.  With  that  in  mind,  Latvia  will  assume  the 
presidency of the Arms Trade Treaty next year and will 
spare  no  effort  to  promote  its  objectives.  I  call  on  all 
States to become parties to the Treaty, which would also 
contribute directly to the legacy of Nelson Mandela and 
to  the  attainment  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development’s Sustainable Development Goals.
This year Latvia is celebrating the centenary of the 
modern democratic republic. Latvia’s greatest resource 
is  our  people.  Those  who  sacrificed  their  lives  for 
freedom and those who have dedicated their lives to the 
creation and maintenance of an independent State have 
created our present reality with the work they do on a 
daily basis. Together with the new generation, they are 
laying the foundation for our future.
To reiterate my message I would like to quote the 
great Latvian poet Rainis, who said in 1911, “We are as 
great as is our will”.
The  awareness  of  this  simple  truth  has  followed 
Latvians through an entire century of joy and suffering, 
destruction  and  renewal.  This  simple,  succinct  truth 
expresses the essence of our national will: belief in our 
strength and the desire to be free. Today we can also 
achieve all that we believe in.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Pakistan.
Mr.  Hashmi  (Pakistan):  Nelson  Mandela’s  name 
is  synonymous  with  struggle,  reconciliation,  peaceful 
coexistence and respect for others. His charisma, stoic 
optimism and undying spirit to help the oppressed made 
him  one  of  the  world’s  most  recognizable  statesmen 
of  the  twentieth  century  and  a  hero  of  South  African 
democracy. His legacy continues to reverberate around 
the  world.  As  we  are  gathered  here  to  celebrate  that 
great  statesman,  who  stood  for  peace  and  unity,  we 
see  around  us  a  world  that  is  hardly  at  peace  and  in 
which  conflicts  abound,  human  rights  abuses  remain 
rampant  and  humanitarian  laws  are  flouted  in  open 
violation of the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations. We must learn from Madiba and see how his 
legacy can guide us in navigating the troubled waters of 
international peace and security today.
One  of  Nelson  Mandela’s  priorities  was  ending 
poverty.  Despite  the  important  progress  made  in 
our  fight  against  extreme  poverty,  hunger,  illiteracy 
and  disease,  the  dividends  of  those  gains  continue 
to  be  unequally  distributed.  Inequality,  exclusion 
and  lack  of  opportunity  continue  to  blight  the  hopes 
72/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
and  aspirations  of  millions  of  people,  especially 
women  and  girls.  Similarly,  internecine  violence  and 
conflict continue to undermine the prospects of peace 
and  stability  throughout  many  parts  of  the  world. 
Protracted conflicts have also spawned unprecedented 
humanitarian  crises,  if  not  emergencies.  Prolonged 
conflicts cannot be wished away. The Jammu-Kashmir 
dispute  is  one  such  scar  on  the  face  of  the  United 
Nations. Addressing the Summit Conference of Heads 
of  State  or  Government  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  in 
Durban in 1998, Mandela said,
 “All of us remain concerned that the issue of Jammu 
and  Kashmir  should  be  solved  through  peaceful 
negotiations  and  should  be  willing  to  lend  all  the 
strength we have to the resolution of this matter”.
We must pay heed to such voices if we are serious about 
peace and Mandela’s legacy.
At  a  time  when  international  cooperation  is  most 
needed to address the myriad interrelated and mutually 
reinforcing  challenges,  the  world  is  becoming  more 
divided  and  polarized.  Mandela  devoted  his  life  to 
the  service  of  his  people  and  humankind,  and  he  did 
so  at  great  personal  sacrifice.  He  chose  the  path  of 
reconciliation and cooperation, while leaving behind a 
powerful legacy of reconciliation and diversity together 
with resistance to economic and other inequalities. We 
must  use  the  power  of  peace  and  reconciliation  and 
learn about the importance of forgiveness and respect 
for the dignity of all people. The greatest tribute that 
we can pay him is to carry on his message of hope and 
continue to defend the values for which he stood. That is 
not an easy task, but let us always remember Madiba’s 
often-quoted lesson:
“It always seems impossible until it is done”.
Let us pledge to work with that undying spirit.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Burundi.
Mr. Shingiro (Burundi) (spoke in French): Burundi 
welcomes  the  convening  on  24  September  of  the 
high-level  plenary  meeting  entitled  “Nelson  Mandela 
Peace  Summit”,  organized,  as  all  here  are  aware,  in 
accordance  with  resolution  72/243,  of  22  December 
2017,  which  my  country,  Burundi,  fully  endorsed. 
Through the holding of this summit, held following the 
centenary of his birth, on 18 July, Burundi pays a well-
deserved tribute to a statesman who made his mark on 
world  history  through  his  dedication  to  the  struggle 
for  freedom,  equality  and  dignity  not  only  for  South 
Africa, but also for the entire world.
As a result of his singular achievements, Madiba’s 
light continues to shine brightly throughout the world, 
burning 
through  every  cloud.  Nelson  Mandela’s 
exemplary sense of courage, determination, love, self-
sacrifice  and  compassion  continues  to  be  a  source  of 
inspiration for the entire world. His legacy shows us the 
path  ahead  and  encourages  us  to  pursue  the  struggle 
to achieve equality, dignity and justice with the same 
dedication and tenacity that he demonstrated throughout 
his entire life, without ever showing any sign of fatigue 
or  resignation  despite  the  27  long  years  he  spent  in 
prison. In his youth, Nelson Mandela preferred to devote 
his  energy  to  forgiveness  and  reconciliation,  working 
towards realizing his model of a peaceful, multi-ethnic, 
multicultural, democratic and definitively unified and 
reconciled  South  Africa.  He  is  today  the  indisputable 
symbol  of  shared  universal  values  such  as  peace, 
forgiveness,  humility,  integrity,  patience,  generosity, 
respect and sincerity, among countless others.
Burundi also welcomes the fact that every year on 
18 July, Nelson Mandela International Day provides us 
with a unique opportunity to reflect on the legacy of that 
iconic figure in the struggle for liberty, in particular his 
call for solidarity and mutually respectful international 
cooperation. It is that sense of duty towards others that 
drove Nelson Mandela to risk his life to save the lives of 
others. He confronted his oppressors while in prison, in 
court and in the street, knowing full well that they had 
the power of life or death over him. He refused to back 
down  or  resign  himself  despite  the  peril  that  hovered 
over him. He sacrificed a major part of his life so that 
others could live in peace, dignity, freedom, tolerance, 
equality  and  mutual  respect  among  the  formerly 
oppressed and those who had oppressed them. He was 
an infallible guide lighting the way and today remains 
an example for the whole world to follow, as we strive 
to  pursue  his  work  in  the  service  of  humankind.  The 
best way of paying him well-deserved tribute would be 
to reverse the current trends towards the fragmentation 
and polarization of the international community through 
dynamic, sincere and equitable multilateralism.
In conclusion, I would be remiss if I did not remind 
the  Assembly  that,  throughout  his  struggle,  Nelson 
Mandela showed us that dialogue and negotiations must 
be  pursued  tirelessly,  regardless  of  the  nature  of  the 
divisions in question. All the peoples of the world have 
the  opportunity  today  to  remember  Mandela’s  legacy, 
18-29599
73/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
which is written in words of gold. His charisma, unifying 
leadership, integrity, humility, sincerity and combative 
spirit  for  achieving  freedom,  equality  and  dignity  for 
all led to the liberation of the people of South Africa 
from the yoke of the racist apartheid regime and that of 
other Africans from repressive regimes. In that regard, 
the people of Burundi are particularly grateful to him 
for his personal commitment to the inter-Burundi peace 
process,  which  led  to  the  Arusha  Peace  Agreement 
in  2000,  the  subsequent  comprehensive  ceasefire 
agreements and the end of a years-long civil war pitting 
the people of Burundi against their brothers.
On  the  occasion  of  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace 
Summit,  let  us  all,  as  an  international  community, 
take  advantage  of  this  opportunity  to  condemn  and 
reject the rise of intolerance, hatred, racism, prejudice, 
discrimination and the trend of radical unilateralism in 
order  to  make  our  world  a  haven  of  peace  where  the 
peoples of the world may live and cooperate in perfect 
harmony and in complementarity.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Chile.
Mr. Skoknic Tapia (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Five 
years  after  the  passing  of  Nelson  Mandela,  the  best 
tribute we can pay to his legacy is to gather here at a 
Peace Summit that bears his name. The perspective that 
Mandela’s birth gives us allows us to be mindful of the 
changes in the notion of peace and security, especially 
in terms of the threats thereto.
This occasion is also an opportunity for all of us to 
reaffirm our commitment to the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  on  its  seventieth  anniversary.  To  a 
large  extent,  traditional  threats  to  peace  and  security 
have been replaced by new threats that are not always 
of a State or military nature — a paradigm change that 
has  convinced  us  that  a  multidimensional  approach 
is  the  best  way  to  address  conflicts.  Causes  include 
socioeconomic, gender-related, ethnic, tribal, religious 
and ideological tensions that may have a local, regional 
or  global  impact.  Such  a  multidimensional  approach, 
with  an  emphasis  on  prevention,  allows  us  to  see 
that  peace  is  intimately  linked  to  development.  As 
the  Assembly  has  reiterated  on  multiple  occasions, 
sustainable  development  cannot  be  achieved  without 
peace and security, while peace and security are at risk 
without  the  achievement  of  sustainable  development. 
Chile  is  of  the  view  that  peace  and  development  are 
closely  linked,  and,  in  the  light  of  the  foregoing,  a 
cooperative  approach  with  a  broad  vision  is  essential 
when dealing with threats of a global nature. Chile is 
therefore  firmly  committed  to  cooperating,  through 
its technical and human resources, in all multilateral, 
universal and regional forums in order to contribute to 
resolving the problems that threaten nations.
In  terms  of  development  cooperation,  one  of  the 
ways that Chile remembers Nelson Mandela is through 
the  scholarship  bearing  his  name.  The  objective  of 
that scholarship and that collaboration is to contribute 
to  the  development  of  advanced  human  capital  for 
Africa, allowing students from all over that continent 
to  graduate  from  Chilean  universities.  Since  the 
scholarship’s creation, in 2014, more than 100 students 
from the African continent have benefited therefrom.
I would conclude by saying that Chile is a peaceful 
country  that  is  resolutely  committed  to  globalization 
and  to  a  world  order  that,  to  be  legitimate,  must  be 
consistently  governed  by  multilaterally  negotiated 
rules. Our outward-looking development model requires 
global conditions of peace and security that effectively 
allow the widest possible circulation of people, goods 
and services.
We  view  international  security  as  a  global  public 
good that must be provided by all States, whatever their 
size, population or military power. For that reason, we 
believe that all members of the international community 
should  participate  in  the  quest  for  global  solutions  to 
major global threats.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the United States of America.
Mr. McCulley (United States of America): It is a 
great honour to be here today as we celebrate the life 
and accomplishments of Nelson Mandela, who devoted 
almost 70 years of his life to helping to transform South 
Africa  into  a  better  version  of  itself  and  who  left  the 
world  a  legacy  to  cherish  and  remember.  As  one  of 
the  twentieth  century’s  greatest  visionaries,  Nelson 
Mandela  demonstrated  to  the  world  the  strength  of 
the  human  spirit  to  overcome  adversity.  His  legacy 
transcends  boundaries  and  will  continue  to  bring 
people  closer  for  generations  to  come  in  the  fight  for 
justice and equality around the world.
Nelson  Mandela  was  no  stranger  to  immense 
adversity  and  hardship.  And  yet  he  never  stopped 
pursuing  the  justice  and  equality  that  he  knew  all 
people  deserve.  Madiba  fought  to  defend  a  universal 
74/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
human  dignity  and  to  create  a  brighter  future  for 
succeeding  generations.  This  Summit  is  a  powerful 
manifestation of President Mandela’s vision of the world 
coming  together  and  recognizing,  amid  our  profound 
disagreements,  the  universality  of  our  common  cause 
to build a better future for humankind.
Through holding this event, we are better and more 
appropriately  able  to  honour  the  memory  of  Nelson 
Mandela  by  improving  the  world.  Despite  decades  of 
imprisonment, Nelson Mandela’s belief in freedom and 
human  dignity  was  unbreakable.  He  maintained  his 
faith, not only in his cause but in the humanity of his 
fellow countrymen, including his oppressors. President 
Mandela  demonstrated 
that  even  after  enduring 
unimaginable adversity, great leaders can govern with 
fairness and honesty and build a better future for their 
countries and for humankind.
President  Mandela  also  did  not  shy  away  from 
shining a spotlight on corruption and the abuse of power. 
In  April  1964,  in  his  famous  speech,  entitled:  “I  am 
prepared to die”, given from the defence dock in a trial 
where he faced the real possibility of a death sentence, 
he  publicly  indicted  a  corrupt  and  unjust  system  of 
State-sponsored oppression. He knew instinctively that 
focusing  public  attention  on  oppression  and  injustice 
would turn opinion towards the peacemaker and human 
rights activist. He knew that the inherent fairness and 
decency of informed human beings would lead to the 
defeat  of  tyranny,  the  spread  of  democracy  and  the 
development  of  strong,  just  institutions  that  preserve 
the  rights  of  every  citizen.  We  have  expressed  our 
concerns with parts of the political declaration that was 
adopted  last  week,  and  we  will  continue  to  share  our 
views on a host of issues in the weeks to come. But let 
us  proceed  under  the  wisdom  of  Mandela’s  legacy  to 
elevate the objectives of our dialogue.
Through Nelson Mandela’s example, we know that 
change can occur when actions and messages of respect 
and  peace  are  used  instead  of  violence  and  division. 
May  we  ever  strive  to  follow  and  continue  to  learn 
from Nelson Mandela on how we should forgive when 
it comes to the past and forge ahead towards a future 
where  all  humankind  can  share  rights  and  privileges 
that are not reserved solely for the few. Nelson Mandela 
was a beacon of hope in this world and a testament to 
the  fact  that  peace  and  profound  growth  are  possible 
anywhere.  In  honour  of  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace 
Summit, we join our fellow representatives in reflecting 
on his legacy of striving for progress, peace, justice and 
equality for all.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Poland.
Mr.  Radomski  (Poland):  I  am  honoured  and 
proud  to  represent  Poland  at  the  Nelson  Mandela 
Peace Summit. Indeed, this is a particularly important 
occasion,  not  only  for  our  dear  friends  and  partners 
from  South  Africa  but  —  I  will  not  hesitate  to  say 
it — for all the people of the world.
Nelson  Mandela’s  personality  and  his  legacy  of 
peaceful transformation from the oppressive apartheid 
regime  to  a  democratic  South  Africa  remind  me  of 
two dates from our own Polish history. Some moments 
during  the  past  century  were  surprisingly  similar  to 
the  long  walk  to  freedom  of  South  Africa  and  other 
African  countries.  A  few  months  after  the  birth  of 
Nelson Mandela — when the horrors of the First World 
War  had  just  ended  —  on  11  November  1918  Poland 
regained its independence after 123 years of partition 
and  oppression  by  the  three  empires,  namely,  Russia, 
Germany and Austria. This year we therefore celebrate 
both centenaries, of Nelson Mandela’s birth and of the 
resurrection of Poland in 1918.
There  are  more  historical  parallels,  however.  The 
years 1989 and 1994 marked the other important dates 
and  similarities  between  Poland  and  South  Africa. 
We  Poles  threw  off  the  bloody  yoke  of  communism 
in  1989,  and  only  five  years  later  Nelson  Mandela 
became  the  first  democratically  elected  President  of 
South Africa, ending the thoroughly unfair and brutal 
apartheid regime.
Let me say this clearly and forcefully: the heritage of 
Nelson Mandela and the histories of both South Africa 
and Poland should serve as a reminder and warning for 
all those who do not abide by the rules of democracy or 
respect human dignity, the right to self-determination 
and the sovereignty of all countries around the world.
Let us remember the great personality and legacy of 
Nelson Mandela. It should inspire us today to contribute 
further to a cessation of hostilities and raging wars and 
to act against aggression and hatred in our world today, 
for which we are all responsible.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Germany.
18-29599
75/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
Mr.  Schulz  (Germany):  I  thank  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  for  convening  this  high-level 
plenary meeting in honour of the centenary of the birth 
of Nelson Mandela.
and  oppression  were 
Nelson  Mandela  was  a  champion  in  so  many 
ways,  and  his  contributions  to  overcoming  apartheid, 
discrimination 
legendary. 
The  same  is  true  for  his  dedication  to  human  rights, 
development and freedom. From early on he emphasized 
the  importance  of  empowering  women  and  youth. 
Today we are challenged by a new wave of populism, 
discrimination  and  violence,  as  our  multilateral  order 
is increasingly coming under threat. Madiba’s life and 
values can help guide us through those challenges. This 
commemoration is therefore called to apply his values 
and actions to today’s problems.
Germany wholeheartedly supports the declaration 
we adopted last week (resolution 73/1) and thanks South 
Africa and Ireland for their leadership in drafting it.
Germany aligns itself with the statement delivered 
on behalf of the European Union during the first part 
of this meeting.
The integration of prevention and sustaining peace 
into the work of the United Nations was long overdue. 
For  us,  prevention  is  the  foundation  of  building 
and  sustaining  peace.  Both  are  key  issues  in  our 
multilateral  work.  At  the  national  level  Germany  has 
spelled  out  its  policy  on  prevention  and  stabilization 
in  our  guidelines  on  preventing  crisis,  resolving 
conflict and building peace. This is the first time that 
Germany has defined its peace policy in this way: we 
are  fully  committed  to  the  primacy  of  politics  and 
the priority of prevention. We have tripled our budget 
for  crisis  prevention,  stabilization  and  humanitarian 
assistance, and we are proud to currently co-chair the 
Peacebuilding Commission.
The  year  2019  will  mark  the  start  of  the  Nelson 
Mandela Decade of Peace, and Germany will serve on 
the Security Council starting in January. Strengthening 
the Council’s work in conflict prevention and conflict 
resolution remains a top priority for Germany. Germany 
will also prioritize human rights and the implementation 
of the women and peace and security agenda during our 
time on the Council.
Speaking about women’s empowerment, I think it is 
appropriate to commemorate the struggle of the South 
African  women  who  fought  alongside  Tata  Mandela. 
I  would  like  to  mention  one  of  them  in  particular, 
Albertina Sisulu. Her life reminds us that women play an 
essential role in the struggle for a more peaceful world. 
That belief is why Germany will continue to promote 
women’s empowerment across the United Nations. That 
is how we can carry on the legacy of Nelson Mandela 
and his dedication to freedom, democracy, human rights 
and the empowerment of women. We believe that they 
are the only way to create lasting peace and stability.
In  today’s  world,  Madiba  reminds  us  all,  maybe 
more  than  ever,  that  those  are  the  guiding  principles 
for  the  United  Nations  and  that  decency  is  not  a  sign 
of weakness.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of the Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr.  Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  The  late  Nelson  Mandela  —  a  great  warrior 
in  South  Africa’s  struggle  and  President  of  that 
country  —  left us a glorious legacy and is a source 
of  pride  for  all  peoples  opposing  foreign  occupation,  
fighting  for  their  independence  and  sovereignty  over 
their  national  territory,  and  combating  terrorism  and 
extremism. Nelson Mandela spent 27 years of his life 
in the apartheid prisons in South Africa. Following his 
release,  he spent the rest of his life fighting tirelessly to 
maintain freedom and independence in his country, to 
defend it and to defend his values and principles in the 
service of humankind.
My country, Syria, supported Nelson Mandela and 
his struggle when he was detained in apartheid prisons. 
We  are  proud  to  say  that  we  have  our  own  Syrian 
Mandela, a man by the name of Sidqi Sleiman Al-Makt, 
a Syrian prisoner who, like Mandela, spent 27 years of 
his life in prison  — Israeli prisons, in his case. He was 
arrested once again by the Israeli occupying authorities 
and sentenced to 14 additional years in prison because 
he exposed Israel’s support for terrorist groups in the 
divided Golan.
Regrettably, the quest for peace will be in vain as 
long as policies exist that support hegemony, occupation 
and terrorism while covering up the crimes committed 
by terrorists. It will be in vain as long as such policies 
impose  unilateral  coercive  measures  amid  rising 
radicalism and the discourse of hatred and racism.  It 
will be in vain as long as many of our peoples continue 
to pay with their blood the price of colonial ambitions, 
international terrorism and proxy wars, in addition to 
illegal alliances that, through their crimes and acts of 
76/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
aggression,  undermine  the  great  developmental  and 
structural achievements that were achieved over many 
decades.  It  will  be  in  vain  as  long  as  certain  States 
continue  to  exacerbate  and  prolong  crises  in  order  to 
serve  their  own  interests  rather  than  find  peaceful 
solutions to them.
Unfortunately,  the  picture  is  bleak  when  we  talk 
about  world  peace  in  the  presence  of  States  that  seek 
to  undermine  international  peace  and  security  rather 
than maintain it. How many States have been destroyed 
under  the  pretext  of  possessing  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  the  responsibility  to  protect  or  spreading 
democracy? The list is endless.
The  challenges  we  face  today  make  our  mission 
as  the  United  Nations  even  more  difficult  and  our 
responsibility  greater.  Consequently, 
the  required 
collective  efforts  must  be  intensified  to  ensure  that 
peace  prevails  over  hegemony,  terrorism,  extremism 
and  hatred.  That  requires  respect  for  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which 
underscores  respect  for  the  sovereignty,  territorial 
integrity and political independence of States, as well 
as non-interference in their internal affairs.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Chad.
Mr.  Moustapha  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
welcome  the  holding  of  today’s  Peace  Summit  to 
commemorate  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  Nelson 
Mandela.  I  am  very  proud  to  speak  on  behalf  of  my 
country, Chad, on this occasion to honour the memory 
of this great man and leader whom the world continues 
to celebrate.
The stature and political career of Nelson Mandela 
serve as an invitation to continue the struggle for our 
peoples. Madiba’s commitment to peace, security and 
harmony transcended the borders of his country, South 
Africa,  and  was  known  throughout  the  world.  That 
is  why  his  faith  in  peace  and  social  justice  inspires 
us  all  to  take  action,  in  particular  in  a  country  such 
as  Chad,  which  has  experienced  decades  of  conflict. 
Peace, security and social justice are yet to be achieved 
in  many  regions,  such  as  the  Lake  Chad  basin  region 
and  the  Sahel,  where  terrorist  groups  and  trafficking 
networks  of  all  kinds  jeopardize  the  safety  of  goods 
and  people  and  threaten  the  stability  of  countries.  In 
addition,  major  vulnerabilities  and  poverty  in  such 
regions are another destabilizing factor in the area of 
peace and security. Abject poverty, which forces men 
and women to live on less than $1 a day, remains one of 
the greatest injustices of our time.
Although  resources  abound  and  technical  means 
exist,  food  insecurity  threatens  millions  of  human 
beings  throughout  the  world.  The  peaceful  world 
that  Nelson  Mandela  ardently  advocated  is  one  that 
eliminates  hunger  and  malnutrition.  The  peaceful 
world Madiba called for allows children to be housed, 
educated  and  realize  their  equal  right  to  participate 
so  as  to  ensure  that  peace,  harmony,  tolerance  and 
compassion continue to prevail. The adoption of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and Agenda 2063 
of  the  African  Union  are  responses  to  the  challenges 
of  poverty  and  the  manifold  and  multidimensional 
threats. We commend the tireless efforts of the United 
Nations  and  the  African  Union  to  implement  the 
promising  commitments  made  under  such  initiatives. 
We support them because they constitute the best way 
to overcome the scourge of poverty and abject poverty 
in the world and ensure peace. There can be no peace 
without development.
However,  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals  depends  entirely  upon  marshalling  financial 
resources,  without  which 
the  2030  Agenda  will 
remain  but  a  litany  of  woes  and  an  unfulfilled  list  of 
desires.  Therefore,  on  this  solemn  occasion,  we  call 
upon  the  donor  community  and  all  Member  States 
to  work  together  to  ensure  that  our  world  becomes 
a  better  place.  In  doing  so  we  would  be  honouring 
both  the  commitments  we  made  and  the  memory  of 
Nelson Mandela.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Iraq.
Mr.  Bahr  Aluloom  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the 
Republic of Iraq, I would like at the outset to express 
my  gratitude  to  those  who  participated  in  organizing 
this Peace Summit to commemorate the ideas of the late 
leader Nelson Mandela, who said,
“To  be  free  is  not  merely  to  cast  off  your  chains, 
but  to  live  in  dignity  that  respects  the  freedom 
of others.”
As  peoples  of  different  States,  we  live  in  a 
diversified and multilateral world in terms of cultures, 
ideologies,  religions  and  ethnicities.  Hence  we  must 
deal with all of those differences based on respect for 
the rights and freedoms of others in order to maintain 
18-29599
77/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
our own rights and freedoms. Diversity and difference 
have been a way of life from the dawn of creation and 
enrich our shared human legacy.
Nelson  Mandela’s  ideals  and  his  struggle  against 
all  forms  of  racial  discrimination  in  the  Republic  of 
South Africa are a beacon that illuminates the path of 
all parties pursuing respect for the principles of human 
rights as an approach to the future of peoples. The broad 
participation of the international community at today’s 
Summit  attests  to  the  fact  that  Member  States  have 
adopted Mandela’s ideas, given their global nature. We 
believe that the rule of law requires that procedures and 
institutions, as well as legal norms, reflect respect for 
human rights. The rule of law is closely linked to the 
protection of human rights. Human rights can never be 
protected  in  communities  without  the  rule  of  law,  as 
it  is  the  only  mechanism  that  activates  such  rights  in 
order to transform them from mere principles to reality, 
by laying the foundations of democratic governance on 
international principles.
The Iraqi Constitution adopted in 2005 encompasses 
the  basic  principles  that  acknowledge  a  broad  range 
of  rights  and  freedoms  for  all  people,  in  line  with 
international humanitarian principles. Our Constitution 
prohibits  the  enactment  of  any  law  that  contravenes 
the  fundamental  principles  of  freedoms  and  prohibits 
any entity or approach that endorses racism, terrorism, 
takfirism or sectarian cleansing.
that 
threaten 
In collaboration with the international community 
and  the  United  Nations,  the  Government  of  Iraq 
is  working  diligently  to  eradicate  the  remnants  of 
extremism 
international  peace  and 
security. It does so by implementing institutional reform 
programmes,  fighting  all  forms  of  discrimination, 
building  national  capacity,  applying  the  principle  of 
gender  equality,  empowering  women  and  youth  and 
providing equal opportunities, while also respecting the 
multi-religious, cultural and national features of Iraq. 
We  are  earnestly  pursuing  the  development  of  think 
tanks in order to develop a human approach aimed at 
leading society towards sustainable peace and making 
it part and parcel of the daily lives of the Iraqi citizens.
It  is  very  clear  that  since  2003  Iraq  has  lived 
through  an  exceptional  phase  in  its  socio-political 
history. It  suffered  an aggressive, racist and terrorist 
attack by Al-Qaida and subsequently by Da’esh terrorist 
gangs in 2014. They targeted the very existence of the 
State and its intellectual system and spilled the blood 
of our citizens of all sects and religions. However, the 
synergistic  efforts  of  Iraqis  with  the  support  of  the 
international community saved the country from those 
terrorist gangs, while preventing them from spreading 
to  other  parts  of  the  region  and  the  world.  Terrorism 
was  defeated 
in  Mesopotamia.  The  Government 
of  Iraq  announced  last  year  all-out  victory  against 
such  criminal  gangs.  Iraqis  understand  very  well  the 
principles of human rights and how to address them and 
insist that they will be part of their future.
The United Nations adopted the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development in 2015. We believe that many 
of its decisions reflect the global ideas of the late leader 
Nelson  Mandela.  They  focus  primarily  on  educating 
and advancing individuals in order to accept others in 
the spirit of coexistence. Iraq now works in earnest on 
incorporating those goals into its governmental scheme.
In conclusion, I would like to note that we, as States 
Members of the United Nations, can realize and sustain 
peace  while  also  preventing  internal,  regional  and 
international conflicts.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Ethiopia.
Mr.  Amde  (Ethiopia):  We  join  the  whole  world 
in paying special tribute to Nelson Mandela — one of 
Africa’s  greatest  sons,  an  inspiration  to  humankind 
and  a  global  icon.  Today  we  have  an  opportunity  to 
celebrate the life of Mandela and reflect on his legacy. 
It  was  a  life  of  endless  courage,  boundless  sacrifice, 
measureless  perseverance  and  indomitable  action.  He 
fought ceaselessly for the ideals of freedom and justice, 
equality,  tolerance  and  reconciliation.  Those  are  the 
very ideals to which the Organization is dedicated and 
that are inscribed in the Charter of the United Nations 
and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Just 20 years ago, the General Assembly celebrated 
the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  During  the  summit, 
President  Nelson  Mandela  said  at  the  general  debate 
that the challenges of the next half century would be
“whether  humanity,  and  especially  those  who 
will  occupy  positions  of  leadership,  will  have  the 
courage  to  ensure  that  at  last  we  build  a  human 
world consistent with the provisions of that historic 
Declaration and other human rights instruments that 
have been adopted since 1948.” (A/53/PV.7, p.14)
78/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
We  do  not  think  we  have  yet  made  the  significant 
progress that he would have wanted and hoped for.
Mandela  dedicated  his  entire  life  to  the  cause 
of  freedom  and  justice.  His  struggle  to  liberate 
South  Africa  from  apartheid  will  be  remembered  for 
generations to come. He passed through countless trials 
and tribulations. It was indeed a long walk to freedom, 
but  he  still  kept  the  courage  to  preach  tolerance, 
forgiveness and reconciliation.
A young Madiba spent time in Ethiopia during the 
early days of his struggle. I am proud to say we provided 
him with some of the support and training he needed 
for his struggle against apartheid and colonialism. He 
remembered and said that Ethiopia always held a special 
place in his heart and imagination. And we Ethiopians 
hold a special place for him in our hearts too. We revere 
his place in the history of Africa’s freedom, even more 
so today. As we undertake considerable reform, we look 
to  the  values  and  ideals  for  which  he  fought.  We  are 
engaging  our  people  with  his  message  of  forgiveness 
and  reconciliation,  tolerance  and  dialogue  to  sustain 
the peace, stability and development of our country.
We  are  not  confining  our  efforts  to  Ethiopia.  We 
in the Horn of Africa are living up to our commitment 
to silence the guns by 2020 so as to lift the burden of 
conflict  and  war  from  our  children.  We  are  working 
towards  making  peace  a  reality  for  our  people.  Over 
the  past  three  months,  we  have  launched  region-wide 
reconciliation and started the process of normalization 
between and among most of the countries of the Horn of 
Africa. Ethiopia and Eritrea have opened a new chapter 
in  their  relationship,  ending  two  decades  of  conflict. 
That  spirit  of  reconciliation  is  also  reaching  across 
Somalia, Djibouti and the Horn of Africa at large. All 
of  us  in  the  region  have  played  a  remarkable  role  in 
creating peaceful engagement in that regard.
The  African  Union  Commission  Chairperson 
rightly called it a clear demonstration of the value and 
effectiveness  of  the  search  for  African  solutions  to 
African problems. I can say with confidence that those 
are major developments for the Horn of Africa region. 
As  the  Secretary-General  put  it,  there  is  a  powerful 
wind of hope blowing across the Horn of Africa region. 
It  is  a  wind  that  offers  a  start  to  unravelling  years  of 
conflict and suspicion across a region that has been one 
of the most conflict-ridden in Africa. We are extending 
the  process  to  promote  a  framework  for  regional 
integration to fight poverty.
The 
of 
theme 
today’s  Nelson  Mandela 
Summit — “Strengthening the role of the United Nations 
in  the  promotion  and  maintenance  of  international 
peace:  building  on  Mandela’s  legacy”  —  could  not 
be  more  timely  or  appropriate.  In  these  difficult 
times, Madiba’s legacy has real importance and great 
significance for global peace. The unanimous adoption 
of the Nelson Mandela political declaration (resolution 
73/1), declaring 2019 as the start of the Nelson Mandela 
Decade  of  Peace,  is  most  welcome.  We  ourselves  are 
already  nearly  half-way  through  the  Nelson  Mandela 
Decade  for  Reconciliation  in  Africa,  declared  by  the 
African  Union  summit  four  years  ago.  Its  member 
States  have  been  encouraged  to  promote  truth  and 
reconciliation  as  a  means  to  advance  democracy  and 
participatory  governance  and  work  to  secure  peace, 
stability  and  development  in  Africa.  However,  we 
should  do  more  than  just  renew  our  pledge  to  the 
building  of  a  just,  peaceful,  prosperous,  inclusive 
and  fair  world  —  a  world  in  which  Mandela  would 
have  been  proud  to  participate.  To  celebrate  the  life 
of  this  extraordinary  man,  we  should  act  and  follow 
his precept:
“We can change the world and make it a better 
place. It is in our hands to make a difference.”
Our future is indeed in our hands.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Observer State of the Holy See.
Archbishop  Auza  (Holy  See):  Mandela’s  legacy 
has  become  synonymous  with 
the  promotion  of 
peace  and  non-violence,  reconciliation  and  healing, 
non-discrimination and the promotion of human rights. 
In a telegram to express his condolences on the death 
of  Nelson  Mandela,  Pope  Francis  paid  tribute  to  his 
steadfast commitment in promoting the human dignity 
of citizens from all nations and in forging a new South 
Africa  built  on  the  firm  foundations  of  non-violence, 
reconciliation  and  truth.  The  centenary  of  Mandela’s 
birth reminds us of another centenary, that of the end 
of  the  First  World  War  —  a  conflict  that  violently 
disfigured the face of Europe. Reflecting on the Great 
War and the life of Nelson Mandela, two great lessons 
emerge that could serve as golden rules to foster peace.
The  first  lesson  is  that  victory  never  means 
humiliating a defeated foe. Peace is not built by vaunting 
the power of the victor over the vanquished. The haughty 
glory  of  the  victor  sows  a  seed  of  rancor  that  would 
sprout  at  the  first  opportunity  as  vengeance,  whereas 
18-29599
79/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
humility in victory is a promise of reconciliation. After 
27  years  of  imprisonment,  Mandela’s  sacrifices  were 
vindicated with the end of apartheid and his becoming 
the  President  of  South  Africa.  He  was  gracious  and 
generous  in  victory  and  remained  humble  before  the 
cheers  of  the  world.  His  wisdom  led  him  to  reject 
recrimination in favour of reconciliation and to extend 
a hand of friendship to those who had made him suffer, 
for he was convinced that the future demanded moving 
beyond the past.
The  second  lesson  is  that  peace  is  consolidated 
when  nations  can  discuss  matters  on  equal  terms. 
There is a reason that the League of Nations was born 
after the Great War, and then the United Nations out of 
the dying embers of the Second World War. Effective 
multilateralism is a concrete expression of the family of 
nations. As Pope John Paul II affirmed in his address to 
the General Assembly on 5 October 1995,
“The  United  Nations  needs  to  rise  more  and 
more  above  the  cold  status  of  an  administrative 
institution  and  become  a  moral  centre  where  all 
the nations of the world feel at home and develop 
a shared awareness of being, as it were, a family of 
nations.  The  idea  of  ‘family’  immediately  evokes 
something more than simple functional relations or 
a mere convergence of interests. The family is by 
nature a community based on mutual trust, mutual 
support and sincere respect. In an authentic family 
the  strong  do  not  dominate;  instead,  the  weaker 
members,  because  of  their  very  weakness,  are  all 
the more welcomed and served.” (A/50/PV.20, p. 5)
In  Nelson  Mandela’s  legacy  we  find  that  idea  in 
the  very  rich  concept  of  ubuntu,  according  to  which 
people  are  made  people  through  other  people  —  that 
we are one humankind so bound to one another that we 
flourish only if we help people around us flourish.
The political declaration adopted at the beginning 
of  this  Peace  Summit  (resolution  73/1)  acknowledges 
that  we  must  seek  the  conversion  of  heart  and  mind 
that  can  make  a  difference.  A  conversion  of  hearts  is 
needed.  The  Holy  See  joins  Member  States  in  every 
effort  to  work  strenuously  for  true  peace,  while 
expressing  hope  that  the  daily  commitment  of  us  all 
will  continue  to  bear  fruit  and  that  there  will  be  an 
effective  application  in  international  law  for  the  right 
to peace as a fundamental human right and a necessary 
prerequisite to every other right.
As  Mandela  counsels  in  his  autobiography,  Long 
Walk to Freedom,
“If you want to make peace with your enemy, 
you  have  to  work  with  your  enemy.  Then  he 
becomes your partner.”
May  Mandela’s  inspiring  perseverance  in  seeking 
justice,  freedom  and  peace  be  a  motivation  for 
this  family  of  nations  to  redouble  our  efforts  and 
dedication in the quest for a more just, and therefore 
more peaceful, world.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Observer State of Palestine.
Ms.  Abdelhady-Nasser  (Palestine):  We  thank 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
representatives  of  South  Africa  and  Ireland  for 
their  laudable  efforts  to  bring  us  together  on  this 
momentous occasion.
The  late,  honourable  President  Mandela  is  widely 
quoted as having insightfully stated,
“We  know  too  well  that  our  freedom  is 
incomplete without the freedom of the Palestinians.”
With those words he further reinforced the unbreakable 
bond  between  those  who  have  suffered  oppression 
and  those  who  have  struggled  side-by-side  to  defeat 
it.  While  imprisoned,  Mandela  never  lost  sight  of  the 
path  to  freedom  and  remained  a  messenger  of  peace 
and  coexistence.  As  we  honour  him,  we  honour  and 
uphold the ideals and true justice that he dedicated his 
life to defending, including, as the adopted declaration 
(resolution  73/1)  reaffirms,  the  right  to  the  self-
determination  of  peoples  who  remain  under  colonial 
domination or foreign occupation.
Upholding those ideals means rejecting domination, 
oppression,  discrimination  and  injustice,  while  never 
compromising  on  the  right  to  freedom,  dignity  and 
equality  for  all  peoples.  It  means  standing  together 
in  solidarity.  It  means  defending  multilateralism  and 
its  principal  foundation,  international  law.  It  means 
actively  working  for  peace,  not  only  speaking  or 
dreaming of peace, but striving daily to rid our world 
of conflict and all forms of injustice and inequality.
As we commemorate Mandela’s centenary and the 
seventieth  anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of  Human  Rights,  nothing  can  justify  the  fact  that 
the  Palestinian  people  continue  to  be  denied  their 
inalienable  rights,  even  after  having  endured  more 
80/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
than seven decades of dispossession, displacement and 
oppression, and with no end to their suffering in sight. 
We stood alongside many nations that are represented 
here  during  their  long  walks  to  freedom  and  proudly 
celebrated their independence with them. We still await 
the moment when we can celebrate our freedom.
Transformed  by  their  own  experiences  of  the  ills 
of oppression, Mandela and his companions could not 
abide by any form of injustice. That explains why they 
were and still are among the most vocal in denouncing 
Israel’s colonial occupation and what they themselves 
describe  as  the  resurgence  of  apartheid  in  Palestine.
Ahmed  Kathrada,  who  spent  26  years  in  apartheid 
jails, dedicated the last years of his life to the freedom 
of  Palestinian  prisoners  and  the  Palestinian  people. 
The  late  Theo-Ben  Gurirab  of  Namibia,  who  once 
presided  over  the  General  Assembly,  was  also  among 
the  strongest  advocates  of  our  just  cause,  as  is  the 
Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu. 
While solidarity with the Palestinian people is strong 
worldwide,  for  which  we  are  grateful,  it  has  found  in 
South Africa its ultimate expression.
In recognition of the deep ties between our struggles, 
the city of Johannesburg offered a statue of Mandela to 
the city of Ramallah. That statue now stands proudly in 
the heart of occupied Palestine, bearing witness to an 
anachronistic,  illegal  and  colonial  occupation  regime, 
but also as an inspiration of what the future might be 
once  it  ends.  Apartheid  and  colonialism  must  not  be 
the  fate  of  either  the  Palestinian  people  or  the  Israeli 
people. They are man-made disasters that can and must 
be defeated for a just peace to prevail.
However,  apartheid  in  South  Africa  was  not 
defeated by mere words. It took the struggle of a nation, 
global solidarity and measures of accountability against 
that abhorrent regime to bring it to an end. It is time to 
resort to similar means to achieve a similar goal — the 
freedom  for  the  Palestinian  people,  as  well  as  peace 
and coexistence for all on the holiest of lands, so that 
there are no oppressors and no oppressed, only brothers 
and sisters in humanity. May the spirit of Madiba help 
guide us on that path.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor 
to  the  observer  of  the  International  Development 
Law Organization.
Mr.  Civili 
(International  Development  Law 
Organization):  I  am  the  Permanent  Observer  of  the 
International  Development  Law  Organization  (IDLO) 
to the United Nations, and with your permission, Sir, I 
will read out a statement that our Director General was 
to deliver last week, before the meeting was suspended.
“Nelson Mandela was born at a time when  
inequality between races and genders was accepted 
in  both  policy  and  fact,  when  nations  used  force 
to  pursue  their  agendas  and  the  gap  between  the 
rich  and  the  poor  seemed  too  big  to  overcome. 
Unfortunately, our world today is not that different. 
Yes,  apartheid  is  dead,  but  many  of  the  other 
things  that  Mandela  fought  against  are  still  alive 
today  and  in  some  cases  thriving  —  entrenched 
poverty,  growing  inequalities,  violent  conflicts, 
widespread  violence  against  women  and  girls, 
rising  authoritarianism, 
the 
erosion  of  human  rights.  There  can  be  no  peace 
without justice.
intolerance  and 
“Our  Director  General  was  one  of  many 
among the crowds in London in 2005 when Nelson 
Mandela said,

charity. It is an act of justice. It is the protection of 
a fundamental human right, the right to dignity and 
a decent life.’
‘[O]vercoming poverty is not a gesture of  
“We know this only too well at the International 
Development  Law  Organization,  the  world’s  only 
intergovernmental organization that is exclusively 
devoted  to  advancing  the  contribution  of  the  rule 
of law to development. For 30 years we have been 
working in some of the poorest and most fragile parts 
of the world to reform laws, strengthen institutions 
and empower people to access justice and claim their 
rights. The rule of law is not an abstract concept but 
rather the means by which peaceful and inclusive 
societies can be built. It gives a widow the rights to 
the land that she has farmed for decades. It enables 
a community to resolve its disputes in a courtroom 
rather than on the battlefield. It empowers the poor 
to hold the powerful to account. Access to justice 
and  the  rule  of  law  are  integral  elements  of  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  They 
are  also  fundamental  to  preventing  conflicts  and 
sustaining peace.
“IDLO  welcomes 
the  political  declaration 
adopted at this Summit (resolution 73/1). We note 
in  particular  the  call  to  move  beyond  words.  The 
biggest threat to peace is a failure of leadership — the 
failure to stand up against intolerance, the erosion 
18-29599
81/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
of human rights and attacks on the rule of law at the 
national and international level. Mandela’s legacy 
is one of courageous leadership. If I may recall his 
words again, ‘Recognize that the world is hungry 
for action, not words. Act with courage and vision’. 
Let us all act with courage and vision.”
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer  of  the  International  Institute  for  Democracy 
and Electoral Assistance.
Institute 
(International 
Mr.  Tommasoli 
for 
Democracy  and  Electoral  Assistance): It  is  an  honour 
for me to celebrate the legacy of a great man of peace 
and a democratic leader whose wisdom and compassion 
continue to inspire democracy advocates, human rights 
defenders and peacebuilders around the world. His life 
and  legacy  are  particularly  important  to  the  mission 
and work of the International Institute for Democracy 
and  Electoral  Assistance,  which  has  proudly  counted 
South  Africa  among  its  founding  members  since  our 
establishment in 1995, one year after the end of apartheid 
and the first democratic elections in South Africa.
We  are  humbled  by  the  opportunity  to  recall 
Madiba’s two key messages that continue to guide our 
action to this day. The first is that dialogue as a means 
to achieve democracy, peace and development is at the 
core of his legacy. Even at the darkest time of his fight 
against apartheid, and especially during the challenging 
period of transition towards a democratic South Africa, 
he  underscored  the  importance  of  dialogue  and  the 
need  to  look  holistically  at  the  mutually  sustaining 
goals of democracy, peace and development, which are 
enshrined in the South African Constitution.
is 
that 
The  second  message 
freedom  and 
democracy  are  values  that  we  should  always  defend, 
irrespective  of  the  consequences.  Many  delegations 
have  quoted  Mandela  the  statesman  and  Nobel  Peace 
laureate. I would like to quote him when he was facing 
trial. In  1964,  when  he  was  about  to  be  sentenced  to 
imprisonment, he said,
“During  my  lifetime  I  have  dedicated  myself 
to this struggle of the African people. I have fought 
against white domination, and I have fought against 
black  domination.  I  have  cherished  the  ideal  of  a 
democratic  and  free  society  in  which  all  persons 
will  live  together  in  harmony  and  with  equal 
opportunities.  It  is  an  ideal  which  I  hope  to  live 
for.  But  if  needs  be,  it  is  an  ideal  for  which  I  am 
prepared to die.”
We join the many voices that have today echoed the 
values that Mandela so valiantly promoted and that are 
at the core of the ideals of the United Nations.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Ms. Torsney (Inter-Parliamentary Union): “If you 
want to make peace with your enemy, you have to work 
with your enemy. Then he becomes your partner.” That 
memorable quote of Nelson Mandela is a clear example 
of his wisdom and illustrates the value of his legacy. We 
are all different. Each of us has a particular point of view 
and  concrete  proposals  to  address  the  challenges  that 
our world is facing today. But staying entrenched in our 
positions  will  not  contribute  to  long-term  sustainable 
solutions.  Working  together,  as  partners,  and  putting 
aside our differences is the only way to move forward. 
That  is  what  the  United  Nations  does,  by  promoting 
tolerance and peaceful coexistence.
That is also what we do at the Inter-Parliamentary 
Union  (IPU),  the  global  organization  of  national 
parliaments. We foster dialogue, build bridges between 
people  and  promote  peace  and  understanding  among 
parliamentarians  from  around  the  world  and  from 
all  political  factions.  The  IPU  and  its  178  member 
parliaments  welcome  this  Peace  Summit  in  honour 
of  Nelson  Mandela.  The  world  needs  more  leaders 
who  are  guided  by  ideals  of  equality,  understanding 
and  compassion,  like  Madiba.  In  a  few  weeks,  at  our 
139th Assembly, in Geneva, the IPU will celebrate the 
centenary  of  Mr.  Mandela’s  birth  and  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. The global parliamentary community will pay 
tribute to the legacy of Madiba and will recommit to the 
principles enshrined in the Declaration.
The  human  race  is  on  a  course  towards  self-
destruction.  Its  drivers  are  many,  but  they  can  be 
summed up in a few points — a global competition for 
resources and new markets, a senseless arms race and 
rising  inequality  and  economic  insecurity  around  the 
world.  As  a  result,  people  are  growing  angry  and  see 
enemies where friends should be found. Governments 
that  reflect  that  anger  are  increasingly  being  elected, 
and  they  are  searching  for  opportunities  to  win  what 
they  perceive  to  be  a  zero-sum  game.  In  the  process, 
they exploit racism, xenophobia and other fears in order 
to fuel even more anger and division among people.
Let us take a minute to think about that. Globally, 
we  are  producing  and  consuming  more  than  nature 
82/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
can  generate.  Our  economic  model  is  tilted  towards 
growth  as  an  end  in  itself  and  does  not  value  human 
well-being,  which,  at  the  end  of  the  day,  is  all  that 
really  matters.  Can  we  sleep  soundly  when  we  know 
that we are contributing to the inexorable and tragic end 
of humanity? We have a responsibility as individuals. 
Our actions have a concrete impact on other people and 
on  nature.  We  also  have  a  collective  responsibility  as 
communities  and  nations.  Our  first  responsibility  is 
to  work  resolutely  towards  attaining  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, as they represent our best option for 
achieving environmental sustainability and social and 
economic justice. Importantly, we need to recognize the 
value of democracy and human rights as the bedrock of 
peace. Democracy empowers people and provides them 
with a way to work through their differences and find 
solutions to their problems, whatever they are.
The President returned to the Chair.
Inspired by Nelson Mandela’s legacy, let us all work 
together, Governments and parliaments, as partners for 
peace in a sustainable world.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the observer of the South Centre.
Mr.  Montes  (South  Centre):  I  am  honoured  to 
read  out  the  South  Centre’s  statement  for  the  Nelson 
Mandela  Peace  Summit  on  behalf  of  my  director, 
Mr. Carlos Correa.
“The  South  Centre  is  greatly  pleased  to  join 
the  international  community  and  the  people  of 
South Africa in this historic Nelson Mandela Peace 
Summit. This is a memorable event in the year of 
celebrations  of  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  the 
founding father of the South African nation, a giant 
of humankind.
“Our  remarks  are  centred  on  Mandela’s 
contribution  to  social  development  as  he  battled 
the  unjust  system  of  apartheid.  They  also  refer 
to  one  of  the  many  examples  of  his  capacity  to 
listen  to  and  address  the  problems  of  the  people, 
particularly  the  poor.  Mr.  Mandela’s  fight  against 
oppression  and  poverty  and  for  social  justice  is 
an example to us all. His legacy remains a strong 
source  of  inspiration  for  all  people.  He  taught  us 
to  be  strong  in  our  beliefs  and  committed  to  our 
cause, to respect, to forgive and to make peace. He 
was an icon in the fight for freedom, social justice 
and  a  dignified  life,  to  which  all  human  beings 
are entitled despite the fact that because of greed 
and hunger, many are still condemned to a life of 
suffering and poverty.
“South Africa’s progress in social development 
since the end of apartheid is clear. Apartheid was 
the  main  obstacle  to  that  development.  It  was  the 
system that normalized and enforced discrimination 
against  non-white  South  Africans  in  education, 
health,  decent  work,  income-earning  assets  and 
a  dignified  life.  The  legal  system  condemned 
non-whites  to  a  life  of  poverty  and  vulnerability. 
Leading  the  African  National  Congress,  Mandela 
overturned  that  system  to  ensure  that  all  South 
Africans  would  be  treated  equally  under  the  law 
and  that  all  forms  of  discrimination  were  ended. 
The fact that in September 2015 the United Nations 
community was able to arrive at an agreement on 
transforming  our  world  (resolution  70/1)  would 
have been  impossible  to  imagine  if  apartheid had 
still reigned in South Africa.
to 
the  suffering  of 
“I  now  turn  to  the  example  of  Mandela’s 
sensitivity 
the  people, 
especially the poor. In an interview in April 2001, 
Mandela,  then  a  private  citizen  after  serving 
as  South  Africa’s  President,  spoke  forthrightly 
against  the  39  multinational  companies  that  had 
taken  the  Government  to  court  over  its  decision 
to  use  flexibilities  allowed  under  World  Trade 
Organization rules to foster access to medicines to 
fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic. At that time, official 
figures showed that one in nine South Africans was 
infected with HIV or already had AIDS, and only 
a  tiny  minority  of  those  4.7  million  people  could 
afford  appropriate  drugs.  As  a  court  respondent, 
Mandela said,
‘I think the pharmaceuticals are exploiting 
the situation that exists in countries like South 
Africa, in the developing world, because they 
charge exorbitant prices which are beyond the 
capacity of the ordinary HIV/AIDS person. That 
is completely wrong and must be condemned.’
“Mandela  joined  his  voice  with  those  who 
claimed that the Government’s action was necessary 
and fully legitimate:
‘The  Government  is  perfectly  entitled,  in 
facing that situation, to resort to generic drugs, 
and  it  is  a  gross  error  for  the  companies,  for 
18-29599
83/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
the  pharmaceuticals,  to  take  the  Government 
to court.’
“Mr. Mandela’s intervention contributed to the 
mounting pressure on multinational pharmaceutical 
firms  to  abide  by  the  internationally  agreed 
patent rules and abandon their attempts to further 
expand  patent  rights  in  the  developing  world. 
His  intervention  represented  a  strong  ethical  call 
to  subordinate  commercial  interests  to  the  right 
to health.
“As  the  think  tank  of  developing  countries 
working on multilateral affairs, we are indebted to 
Nelson Mandela. He was a strong supporter of the 
South Centre. In his address at the opening session 
of the South Centre’s Council of Representatives in 
1998 in New York, he said,
‘As  the  premier  source  of  research  on 
issues  affecting  the  South,  and  growing 
out  of  the  work  and  experience  of  the  South 
Commission,  the  Centre  plays  a  role  whose 
value  for  the  developing  world  cannot  be 
underestimated.’
“In  recognizing  the  work  and  value  of  the 
South Centre as a research institution of the South, 
he also paid a tribute to another great son of Africa, 
his  good  friend  the  late  Mwalimu  Julius  Nyerere, 
the  founding  father  of  the  South  Commission, 
which led to the establishment of the South Centre, 
the  intergovernmental  organization  of  developing 
countries. The work and legacy of two of the greatest 
sons of Africa remain the driving forces in our daily 
work to support the efforts of developing countries 
to reach inclusive and sustainable development.”
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  give 
the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation.
Mr.  Awawdeh 
Islamic 
Cooperation) (spoke in Arabic): It is an honour for me 
to be in this Hall today to commemorate a true hero of 
our times. There can be no doubt that Nelson Mandela 
left  a  great  legacy  that  demonstrates  the  importance 
of  peaceful  struggle,  of  patience  and  of  modesty  in 
victory,  while  promoting  reconciliation  among  South 
Africans. His ideas, his fight and his victories constitute 
a collective legacy that we are proud of.
(Organization 
of 
We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
this  high-
the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
through 
integration,  exclusion 
level  meeting  on  global  peace  to  mark  the  hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Nelson  Mandela.  We  are 
also immensely grateful to South Africa and Ireland for 
their efforts in organizing this event, which represents 
a  source  of  inspiration  that  will  light  our  path  in  the 
days  to  come  as  we  seek  to  sustain  peace  throughout 
the  world.  The  experience  of  Nelson  Mandela  and 
his struggle are models to follow in terms of national 
reconciliation  and  democracy-building.  Addressing 
isolation 
through 
engagement  and  discrimination  through  coexistence 
will ultimately result in a strong and cohesive society 
based on citizenship and diversity, capable of bringing 
a nation to the highest levels of progress, development, 
security and prosperity. That is the model that we hope 
to see in Yemen, Iraq, Syria and other Member States.
The  Palestinian  question  remains  the  main  cause 
for  our  organization.  We  fully  support  the  legitimate 
right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  be  free  from 
occupation  and  achieve  independence  while  living  in 
peace  and  dignity  on  their  own  land.  The  Palestinian 
people have lived for seven decades under continuous 
repression, deprived of their basic human rights. If we 
truly believe in Nelson Mandela’s vision and ideals, we 
should commit to peace and to settling the Palestinian 
question on fair foundations in accordance with United 
Nations  resolutions.  Mandela  has  a  famous  saying: 
“[O]ur  freedom  is  incomplete  without  the  freedom  of 
the Palestinians”.
We  should  align  our  thoughts  and  values  with 
those  of  Nelson  Mandela  in  our  collective  quest  to 
achieve peace. We must not only talk about the apartheid 
that Nelson Mandela rose up against. We must also talk 
about  the  racist  wall  of  separation  built  by  Israel  to 
separate Palestinians from Israeli settlements built on 
occupied Palestinian land. We must achieve peace and 
justice for the Palestinian people and for the peoples of 
Yemen, Iraq, Libya, Syria and Kashmir and others such 
as the Rohingya minority in Myanmar.
The  absolute  truth  is  that  racial  discrimination 
still  exists  everywhere  on 
the  planet.  We  must 
therefore  sincerely  commit  today  to  honouring  all  of 
the  commitments  we  have  made  and  to  addressing 
oppression  and  tyranny,  as  well  as  supporting  the 
oppressed  and  the  victims  while  standing  by  them. 
The only way to express our appreciation and respect 
for Nelson Mandela is by safeguarding his legacy and 
taking it further.
84/86 
18-29599
24/09/2018 
A/73/PV.5
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  give  the 
floor to the observer of the International Organization 
of la Francophonie.
Ms.  Herdt  (International  Organization  of 
la 
Francophonie)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  the  honour 
of  delivering  the  message  of  Ms.  Michaëlle  Jean, 
Secretary-General of the International Organization of 
la Francophonie.
“It  is  with  great  respect  that  I  welcome  the 
holding  of  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace  Summit 
and  the  platform  it  offers  us  today  to  rebuild  the 
values at the heart of our work. We speak with one 
voice  —  Nelson  Mandela’s  legacy  compels  us  to. 
This  Summit  carries  with  it  a  deep  emotion  that 
galvanizes  us  and  reminds  us  of  the  evidence  of 
our  common  humanity  and  our  shared  destiny. 
To be free is not only being able to throw off our 
chains, it is being able to live in a way that respects 
and  strengthens  the  freedom  of  others.  Nelson 
Mandela, a man of peace and wisdom, kindness and 
forgiveness,  taught  us  the  unconditional  respect 
that we owe to each and every human being.
“His powerful legacy relentlessly compels us to 
meet our dual responsibilities. First, we are called 
on to meet our individual responsibilities, because 
it  is  above  all  through  the  daily  exercise  of  will 
and courage that we can all contribute to building 
a  world  marked  by  mutual  respect,  tolerance  and 
understanding in our relationships. And after that, 
we  must  also  meet  our  collective  responsibilities, 
through  the  official  missions  entrusted  to  us  that 
task us with safeguarding the general interest and 
ensuring full respect for the equal dignity of all.
“La  Francophonie  stands  ready 
to  fully 
assume  its  rightful  place.  I  would  like  to  assure 
the Assembly that we are up to the task of acting 
with the essential courage that the people demand 
of us. As the political declaration (resolution 73/1) 
solemnly  adopted  at  the  opening  of  this  Summit 
reminds us, it is up to us to take responsibility as 
we  address  the  Assembly,  and  as  the  leaders  of 
our  organizations,  we  must  work  to  break  down 
resistance  and  do  everything  we  can  to  tackle 
those  who  would  cast  doubt  on  the  primacy  of 
multilateralism. That was behind the conclusions of 
the  high-level  interactive  dialogue  with  the  heads 
of  international  and  regional  organizations  held 
in  June  at  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General, 
to  which  we  actively  contributed.  The  Assembly 
can  count  on  La  Francophonie’s  commitment  not 
only  to  promoting  but  above  all  to  realizing  the 
multilateralism  that  we  have  called  for,  both  in 
networking and in action, based on improving the 
complementarity and coordination of our efforts.
in 
“The  entire  francophone  world  is  committed 
to  participating 
these  struggles.  “Living 
together  in  solidarity,  sharing  humanistic  values 
and  respecting  diversity:  a  source  of  peace  and 
prosperity  in  the  francophone  area”  will  be  the 
theme  of  the  seventeenth  Summit  of  Heads  of 
State  and  Government  of  la  Francophonie  when 
our  politicians  and  diplomats  meet  in  Yerevan, 
Armenia, on 11 and 12 October.
“That is also the meaning behind the tools and 
mechanisms  that  we  continue  to  develop  in  the 
service of peace. The International Organization of 
la Francophonie has never ceased to support those 
of its members in difficulties, in our understanding 
that  democracy,  peace  and  development  are 
inseparable. In both the French-speaking world and 
the world in general, our objective is to encourage 
renewed  mobilization  to  prevent  and  settle  crises 
and conflicts peacefully, to enshrine fundamental 
rights and the fight against inequality and identify 
innovative  measures  in  a  continually  challenging 
international  context.  La  Francophonie  continues 
to oppose the notion of cultural relativism, because 
what  defines  us  —  beyond  the  diversity  of  our 
cultures,  languages  and  characteristics  of  our 
civilizations  —  is  shared  universal  values.  The 
Libres  Ensemble  initiative,  an  expression  of  the 
hope  and  determination  of  francophone  youth  in 
response to movements of hatred and the rejection 
of others, also magnificently echoes the teachings 
of Nelson Mandela.
“At a time of retreat into nationalism, dialogue 
and  solidarity  are  essential.  The  Fez  Summit 
Conference  on  dialogue  between  cultures  and 
religions,  held  a  few  days  ago  in  Morocco,  was 
similarly  aimed  at  promoting  new  relationships 
based  on  the  renewal  of  a  culture  of  peace  and 
coexistence  by  questioning  our  diversity  and 
our otherness.
“At a time when we are striving to achieve the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  when 
we  have  at  last  realized  that  prevention  and  the 
18-29599
85/86
A/73/PV.5 
24/09/2018
patient  and  meticulous  building  of  lasting  peace 
should be our greatest priority — but also at a time 
when  our  humanity  is  being  questioned  by  the 
disgrace  and  horror  that  are  destroying  the  lives 
of  tens  of  millions  of  men,  women  and  children, 
and when the very survival of future generations in 
the face of climate change is in our hands — will 
we be capable of living up to the legacy of Nelson 
Mandela,  a  man  who  never  ceased  to  believe, 
despite  the  immensity  of  the  trials  he  faced,  that 
‘love  comes  more  naturally  to  the  human  heart 
than its opposite’? We are infinitely grateful to him 
for his legacy, and we owe it to ourselves never to 
betray him.”
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the Director of the Liaison Office of the Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Mrs. Mucavi (Food and Agriculture Organization 
of the United Nations): Freeing the world from hunger 
and want is a fundamental contribution to lasting peace. 
Those  words  are  part  of  the  Constitution  of  the  Food 
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations 
(FAO)  and  were  introduced  by  our  founders  in  1945 
when  it  was  created  immediately  after  the  end  of  the 
Second World War.
Nelson  Mandela’s  historic  centenary  once  again 
obliges  us  to  recognize  that  promoting  human  rights 
and fundamental freedoms such as the right to food and 
to economic and social development is key to achieving 
inclusive and peaceful societies, as set forth in the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Regrettably,  the  The  State  of  Food  Security  and 
Nutrition in the World 2018 report shows that 821 million 
people  are  suffering  from  hunger  and  malnutrition 
today.  The  increase  in  that  number  during  the  past 
year is due to two main reasons, conflicts and climate 
change. The evidence is clear — where conflicts arise, 
hunger increases. There is a direct relationship between 
them,  and  the  impact  of  wars  and  conflict  on  hunger 
and malnutrition is even worse when one considers that 
global  military  spending  continues  to  increase  while 
the resources that countries can allocate to eradicating 
hunger  and  poverty  are  scarce  and  sometimes 
decreasing.  According  to  the  Global  Report  on  Food 
Crises 2018, 60 per cent of the people who experienced 
acute  hunger  in  2017  were  in  conflict  areas.  Earlier 
this  year,  with  its  unanimous  adoption  of  resolution 
2417  (2018),  the  Security  Council  drew  attention  to 
the link between armed conflicts and conflict-induced 
food insecurity and the threat of famine. The FAO has 
contributed  to  that  important  step  by  generating  the 
evidence  through  the  Integrated  Food  Security  Phase 
Classification, the Global Report on Food Crises and 
the  regular  FAO-World  Food  Programme  briefings  to 
the Security Council.
The FAO is strongly committed to promoting food 
security and peace. In 2016, for instance, together with 
several  Nobel  Peace  Prize  laureates,  we  established 
the  FAO-Nobel  Peace  Laureates  Alliance  for  Food 
Security  and  Peace  to  tackle  the  twin  problems  of 
hunger  and  violence.  Last  week,  we  were  pleased  to 
admit  Ms. Graça  Machel to  honorary  membership  of 
the Alliance as a tribute to Mandela’s work for freedom 
and peace. As Madiba said,
“Like  slavery  and  apartheid,  poverty  is  not 
natural. It is man-made and it can be overcome and 
eradicated  by  the  actions  of  human  beings.  And 
overcoming poverty is not a gesture of charity. It is 
an act of justice.”
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker for this meeting.
We have thus concluded the Nelson Mandela Peace 
Summit. The participation of more than 150 speakers 
and  the  adoption  of  a  powerful  political  declaration 
(resolution  73/1)  attests  to  the  commitment  of  the 
General Assembly to the principles that guided the life 
and  transformative  action  of  Madiba.  At  this  Summit 
we  have  affirmed  our  commitment  to  multilateralism 
for  addressing  global  threats  and  challenges.  I  invite 
one  and  all  to  be  inspired  in  their  daily  work  by  the 
ideals  that  inspired  this  great  leader,  such  as  peace, 
development,  disarmament  and 
the  defence  of 
fundamental rights.
The  Nelson  Mandela 
now concluded.
Peace 
Summit 
is 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 66.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
86/86 
18-29599
