United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
55th plenary meeting
Monday, 17 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Reports of the Third Committee
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
Assembly  will  consider  the  reports  of  the  Third 
Committee on agenda items 28, 29, 65, 69 to 74, 109, 
110, 123 and 137.
I request the Rapporteur of the Third Committee, 
Ms. Katharina Konzett-Stoffl of Austria, to introduce 
the reports of the Committee in one intervention.
Ms.  Konzett-Stoffl  (Austria),  Rapporteur  of  the 
Third  Committee:  It  is  a  great  privilege  for  me  to 
introduce  to  the  General  Assembly  the  reports  of  the 
Third  Committee  submitted  under  the  agenda  items 
allocated to it by the Assembly, namely, items 28, 29, 
65, 69, 70 to 73, 74, 109, 110, 123 and 137.
The  reports,  contained  in  documents  A/73/581  to 
A/73/593,  include  the  texts  of  draft  resolutions  and 
decisions  recommended  to  the  General  Assembly 
for  adoption.  For  the  convenience  of  delegations,  the 
Secretariat  has 
issued  document  A/C.3/73/INF/1, 
which contains a checklist of actions taken on the draft 
proposals contained in the reports before the Assembly.
“Social 
development”, including sub-items (a), (b) and (c), the 
Third Committee recommends, in paragraph 31 of its 
report contained in document A/73/581, the adoption of 
six draft resolutions.
entitled 
Under 
agenda 
item 
28, 
Under  agenda  item  29,  entitled  “Advancement 
of  women”,  the  Third  Committee  recommends,  in 
paragraph  37  its  report  contained  in  of  document 
A/73/582, the adoption of four draft resolutions and, in 
paragraph 38, the adoption of one draft decision.
Under  agenda  item  65,  entitled  “Report  of  the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees, 
questions relating to refugees, returnees and displaced 
persons  and  humanitarian  questions”, 
the  Third 
Committee recommends, in paragraph 16 of its report 
contained  in  document  A/73/583,  the  adoption  of  two 
draft resolutions.
Under agenda item 69, entitled “Report of the Human 
Rights  Council”,  the  Third  Committee  recommends, 
in  paragraph  11  of  its  report  contained  in  document 
A/73/584, the adoption of one draft resolution.
Under  agenda 
item  70,  entitled  “Promotion 
and  protection  of  the  rights  of  children”,  the  Third 
Committee recommends, in paragraph 56 of its report 
contained in document A/73/585, the adoption of three 
draft resolutions and, in paragraph 57, the adoption of 
one draft decision.
Under  agenda 
item  71,  entitled  “Rights  of 
indigenous peoples”, the Third Committee recommends, 
in  paragraph  8  of  its  report  contained  in  document 
A/73/586, the adoption of one draft resolution.
Under  agenda  item  72,  entitled  “Elimination  of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance”,  the  Third  Committee  recommends,  in 
paragraph  26  of  its  report  contained  in  document 
A/73/587, the adoption of two draft resolutions.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-44315 (E)
*1844315*

A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Under agenda item 73, entitled “Right of peoples to 
self-determination”, the Third Committee recommends, 
in  paragraph  24  of  its  report  contained  in  document 
A/73/588, the adoption of three draft resolutions.
Under  agenda  item  74,  entitled  “Promotion  and 
protection  of  human  rights”,  the  Third  Committee 
recommends, in paragraph 9 of document A/73/589, the 
adoption of one draft resolution and, in paragraph 10, 
the adoption of one draft decision.
Under  sub-item  (a),  entitled  “Implementation  of 
human rights instruments”, of agenda item 74, entitled 
“Promotion and protection of human rights”, the Third 
Committee recommends, in paragraph 21 of its report 
contained in document A/73/589/Add.1, the adoption of 
one draft resolution.
alternative 
approaches 
(b),  entitled  “Human 
Under  sub-item 
including 
rights 
questions, 
for 
improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms”,  of  agenda  item  74,  entitled 
“Promotion and protection of human rights”, the Third 
Committee recommends, in paragraph 162 of its report 
contained in document A/73/589/Add.2, the adoption of 
17 draft resolutions.
Under sub-item (c), entitled “Human rights situations 
and reports of special rapporteurs and representatives”, 
of agenda item 74, entitled “Promotion and protection 
of  human  rights”,  the  Third  Committee  recommends, 
in  paragraph  88  of  its  report  contained  in  document 
A/73/589/Add.3, the adoption of five draft resolutions.
Under  sub-item  (d),  entitled  “Comprehensive 
implementation  of  and  follow-up 
the  Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action”, of agenda item 
74, entitled “Promotion and protection of human rights”, 
the  Third  Committee  wishes  to  advise  the  Assembly 
that no action was required under that sub-item.
to 
Under 
agenda 
entitled 
item  109, 
“Crime 
prevention and criminal justice”, the Third Committee 
recommends,  in  paragraph  45  of  its  report  contained 
in  document  A/73/590,  the  adoption  of  nine  draft 
resolutions  and,  in  paragraph  46,  the  adoption  of  one 
draft decision.
Under  agenda  item  110,  entitled  “International 
drug  control”,  the  Third  Committee  recommends, 
in  paragraph  10  of  its  report  contained  in  document 
A/73/591, the adoption of one draft resolution.
Under  agenda  item  123,  entitled  “Revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly”,  the  Third 
Committee  recommends,  in  paragraph  6  of  its  report 
contained  in  document  A/73/592,  the  adoption  of  one 
draft decision.
Finally, under agenda item 137, entitled “Programme 
planning”,  the  Third  Committee  wishes  to  advise  the 
Assembly that no action was required under that item.
I would like to thank my fellow Bureau members — the 
Chair of the Committee, Ambassador Mahmoud Saikal, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Afghanistan;  and  the 
Vice-Chairs,  Ms.  Lahya  Itedhimbwa  Shikongo  of 
Namibia, Mr. Martin Kováčik of Slovakia and Mr. Edgar 
Andrés  Molina  Linares  of  Guatemala,  as  well  as  the 
Secretary  of  the  Committee,  Mr.  Moncef  Khane,  and 
his able team, for their unwavering support and sound 
advice  in  the  management  of  the  proceedings  of  the 
Third  Committee.  Finally,  I  am  grateful  to  all  Third 
Committee experts for their support to the Bureau and 
for their friendship.
In conclusion, I would like to respectfully commend 
the reports of the Third Committee before the plenary 
of the General Assembly for its consideration.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank  the 
Rapporteur of the Third Committee.
regarding 
The  positions  of  delegations 
the 
recommendations  of  the  Committee  have  been  made 
clear in the Committee and are reflected in the relevant 
official  records.  Therefore,  if  there  is  no  proposal 
under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I shall take it 
that  the  General  Assembly  decides  not  to  discuss  the 
reports  of  the  Third  Committee  that  are  before  the 
Assembly today.
It was so decided.
The President (spoke in Spanish): Statements will 
therefore be limited to explanations of vote or position. 
I  would  like  to  remind  members  that,  in  accordance 
with  General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  a  delegation 
should,  as  far  as  possible,  explain  its  vote  only  once, 
that is, either in the Committee or in plenary meeting, 
unless  that  delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is 
different from its vote in the Committee. I would also 
like  to  remind  members  that  explanations  are  limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
2/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
to 
take  action  on 
Before  we  begin 
the 
recommendations contained in the reports of the Third 
Committee, I would like to advise representatives that 
we are going to proceed to take decisions in the same 
manner  as  was  done  in  the  Committee,  unless  the 
Secretariat is notified otherwise in advance. That means 
that, where separate or recorded votes were taken, we 
will do the same. I would also hope that we may proceed 
to  adopt  without  a  vote  those  recommendations  that 
were adopted without a vote in the Third Committee. 
The results of the votes will be uploaded and available 
on the PaperSmart portal.
Before proceeding further, I would like to draw the 
attention  of  members  to  a  note  by  the  Secretariat,  in 
English  only,  entitled  “List  of  proposals  contained  in 
the  reports  of  the  Third  Committee”,  which  has  been 
circulated  as  document  A/C.3/73/INF/1.  The  note  has 
been distributed desk-to-desk in the General Assembly 
Hall as a reference guide for action on draft resolutions 
and  decisions  recommended  by  the  Third  Committee 
in its reports.
Members  will  find  in  column  4  of  the  note  the 
symbols  of  the  draft  resolutions  and  decisions  of  the 
Third  Committee,  with  the  corresponding  symbols 
of  the  reports  for  action  in  the  plenary  in  column 
2  of  the  same  note.  For  reports  containing  multiple 
recommendations,  the  draft  resolution  or  decision 
number is contained in column 3 of the note.
Members  are  reminded  that  additional  sponsors 
are no longer accepted now that draft resolutions and 
decisions  have  been  adopted  in  the  Committee.  Any 
clarification about sponsorship in the Committee reports 
should be addressed to the Secretary of the Committee.
Furthermore,  members  are  reminded  that  any 
corrections to the voting intention of delegations after 
the voting has concluded on a proposal should be made 
directly to the Secretariat after the meeting. I would seek 
members’ cooperation in avoiding any interruptions to 
our proceedings in that regard.
Agenda item 28
Social development
(a) Implementation of the outcome of the World 
Summit for Social Development and of the 
twenty-fourth special session of the General 
Assembly
(b) Social development, including questions 
relating to the world social situation and to 
youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family
(c) Literacy for life: shaping future agendas
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/581)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has before it six draft resolutions recommended by the 
Third Committee in paragraph 39 of its report.
We shall now take decisions on draft resolutions I to 
VI, one by one. After all the decisions have been taken, 
representatives will have an opportunity to explain their 
vote or position on any or all of the draft resolutions.
We 
turn  first 
to  draft  resolution  I,  entitled 
“Volunteering  for  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development”.  The  Committee  adopted  it  without 
a  vote.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to 
do likewise?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 73/140).
The  President:  Draft  resolution  II  is  entitled 
“Implementation of the outcome of the World Summit 
for Social Development and of the twenty-fourth special 
session of the General Assembly”. A recorded vote has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada, 
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, 
Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Eswatini, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
18-44315
3/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Israel, Papua New Guinea, United States of America
Abstaining:
None
Draft resolution II was adopted by 188 votes to 3 
(resolution 73/141).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
III  is  entitled  “Inclusive  development  for  and  with 
persons  with  disabilities”.  The  Committee  adopted  it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do likewise?
Draft resolution III was adopted (resolution 73/142).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
IV is entitled “Follow-up to the Second World Assembly 
on Ageing”. The Committee adopted it without a vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 73/143).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
V is entitled “Follow-up to the twentieth anniversary of 
the International Year of the Family and beyond”. The 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution V was adopted (resolution 73/144).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
VI is entitled “Literacy for life: shaping future agendas”. 
The Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it 
that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution VI was adopted (resolution 73/145).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I  take  it 
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its  consideration  of  agenda  item  28  and  its  sub-items 
(a), (b) and (c)?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 29
Advancement of women
(a) Advancement of women
(b) Implementation of the outcome of the Fourth 
World Conference on Women and of the twenty-
third special session of the General Assembly
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/582)
Draft amendment (A/73.L.56)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has before it four draft resolutions recommended by the 
Third Committee in paragraph 37 of its report, as well 
as one draft decision recommended in paragraph 38 of 
the same report. In connection with draft resolution I, 
the General Assembly has before it a draft amendment 
circulated in document A/73/L.56.
I  shall  first  give  the  floor  to  representatives  who 
wish to speak in explanation of vote before the voting.
Mr. Mohamed (Sudan): I would like to commend 
your work, Madam President, during this session, and 
the tireless efforts of the Chair of the Third Committee 
and  his  Bureau  in  pursuit  of  multilateralism  and  in 
bringing  differing  opinions  in  the  Third  Committee 
to the degree of consensus that multilateralism allows 
and to the degree that we can adhere to that principle, 
4/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
the  embodiment  of  world  peace.  In  that  context,  we 
have  tried  our  best  to  do  away  with  paragraphs  and 
concepts that might affect or compromise our general 
quest  for  the  greatest  possible  level  of  consensus  and 
for  enhancing  multilateralism.  Taking  that  principled 
position  into  account,  we  would  like  to  make  the 
following  statement.  I  will  now  speak  with  regard  to 
the draft amendment we are requesting.
(spoke in Arabic)
Through draft amendment A/73/L.56, my delegation 
requests  the  deletion  of  the  sixteenth  preambular 
paragraph of draft resolution I, entitled “Trafficking in 
women  and  girls”,  recommended  in  the  report  of  the 
Third Committee (A/73/582). The paragraph mentions 
the International Criminal Court (ICC), and we request 
the draft amendment for the following reasons.
First,  we  asked  for  the  paragraph  to  be  rejected 
during the informal consultations on the draft resolution 
because it gives the untrue impression that the ICC is 
the only authority that has the jurisdiction to try certain 
crimes.  Furthermore,  it  ignores  the  fact  that  not  all 
countries  are  party  to  the  Rome  Statute,  under  which 
the ICC was established, and that the ICC is a stand-
alone  organ  that  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  United 
Nations except through their Relationship Agreement.
regard 
to 
the 
international  mechanisms 
Secondly,  my  delegation  believes  that  a  draft 
resolution  containing  a  paragraph  that  references  the 
ICC in isolation from other international mechanisms 
ignores the fact that there are many national, regional 
that  are  achieving 
and 
considerable  success  with 
issues 
under  consideration.  That  is  why  we  proposed  some 
amendments  to  the  paragraph  during  the  informal 
consultations  with  a  view  to  striking  a  balance,  and 
suggested  alternative  language  and  options  with  a 
view  to  ultimately  achieving  consensus  on  the  draft 
resolution. In fact, we spared no effort in that regard. 
Unfortunately, however, those efforts were fruitless and 
our position fell on deaf ears. Despite the fact that the 
topic of the draft resolution is a very important one, the 
selective methods used really left us with no choice but 
to propose an amendment, because it is unacceptable to 
impose a specific legal system as a main reference and 
benchmark for all.
among  countries  and  preserves  national  sovereignty. 
In that regard, my country is concerned about attempts 
to  globalize  the  ICC  and  the  Rome  Statute  as  a  legal 
system  and  benchmark  that  must  be  imposed  on  all 
Member States, despite the sovereign right of States to 
voluntarily accede or not accede to a given agreement.
Thirdly, we have an established and clear position 
on the reference to the ICC, since it helps to politicize 
the  language  of  Third  Committee  draft  resolutions 
and  undermines 
the  Committee’s  objectives  and 
fundamental  principles.  Such  references  can  also 
be  used  as  a  platform  to  promote  the  ICC  while 
undermining the consensus, or the unanimity, on those 
draft resolutions in every instance.
I  would  like  to  thank  those  who  will  vote  in 
favour  of  our  amendment.  We  request  the  deletion  of 
the sixteenth preambular paragraph and urge Member 
States to support our position and vote in favour of the 
proposed amendment.
Mr. Sparber (Liechtenstein): I have the honour to 
deliver this statement on behalf of Australia, Canada, 
Iceland,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Switzerland  and  my 
own country, Liechtenstein. 
We  are  once  again  deeply  disturbed  by  one 
delegation’s  attempts  to  challenge  references  to  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) in draft resolutions 
of the Third Committee that have been agreed language 
for many years.
The  ICC  is  an  independent  organization  with  a 
strong  institutional  connection  to  the  United  Nations. 
It is the world’s first and only permanent international 
independent court with criminal law jurisdiction, and it 
has a key role to play in ending impunity where national 
courts are unwilling or unable to exercise jurisdiction 
over  the  most  serious  crimes  under  international  law 
and in the protection of human rights. The ICC’s work 
is  therefore  vitally  important  within  the  scope  of 
various Third Committee draft resolutions that will be 
adopted by the General Assembly today, including on 
trafficking in women and girls, the rights of the child, 
extrajudicial summary or arbitrary executions, and the 
situation  of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea.
My delegation would also like to stress that fighting 
impunity has been and remains a priority for the Sudan, 
within  the  framework  of  the  principle  of  respect  for 
international  law,  which  ensures  justice  and  equality 
We  regret  that  once  again  we  are  confronted 
with  draft  amendments  that  undermine  the  important 
role  of  the  ICC  in  ending  impunity  for  grave  human 
rights violations, and thereby upholding human rights, 
18-44315
5/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
which  is  one  of  the  Assembly’s  core  mandates,  and 
that  challenge  language  that  has  been  included  in  the 
relevant texts for many years. We therefore call on all 
States to vote against all draft amendments that ask for 
the deletion of references to the ICC.
Mr. Kickert (Austria): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the European Union and its member States. 
In  all  brevity,  and  so  as  not  to  duplicate  the 
deliberations we already held in the Third Committee, 
I would just like to state that we deeply regret that the 
Sudan  has  once  again  introduced  a  draft  amendment 
to draft resolution I, seeking to delete references to the 
International  Criminal  Court.  That  issue  has  already 
been  considered  in  the  Third  Committee,  and  the 
outcome was a clear rejection of the draft amendment. 
As in the Third Committee, the 28 member States of the 
European Union will vote against the draft amendment, 
which  is  a  deletion,  and  we  call  on  all  other  States, 
particularly  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International Criminal Court, to also vote no.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  shall  now 
take decisions on draft resolutions I to IV and on the 
draft amendment, one by one.
We 
turn  first 
to  draft  resolution  I,  entitled 
“Trafficking in women and girls”. In connection with 
draft resolution I, the General Assembly has before it 
a draft amendment circulated in document A/73/L.56. 
In  accordance  with  rule  90  of  the  rules  of  procedure, 
the  Assembly  shall  first  take  a  decision  on  the  draft 
amendment. A recorded vote has been requested.
Iceland, 
Denmark,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  El 
Salvador,  Estonia,  Eswatini,  Finland,  France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Ireland, 
Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia,  Lesotho, 
Liberia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, 
Mexico,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of), 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Namibia,  Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, 
Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon 
Islands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Ukraine, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of), Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Algeria,  Angola,  Bahamas,  Bhutan,  Brunei 
Darussalam, Cambodia, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, 
Israel,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic, 
Lebanon,  Malaysia, 
Mauritius,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Qatar,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Singapore, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Togo, Turkey, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  States  of 
America, Viet Nam
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  China, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Egypt, 
Eritrea, Iraq, Oman, Pakistan, Russian Federation, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Seychelles,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Yemen
Against:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cabo 
Verde,  Canada,  Chile,  Colombia,  Congo,  Costa 
Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
The  draft  amendment  was  rejected  by  17  votes  to 
112, with 32 abstentions.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Third 
Committee  adopted  draft  resolution  I  without  a  vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 73/146).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
II is entitled “Intensification of efforts to end obstetric 
fistula”. The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 73/147).
The President (spoke in Spanish): We turn next to 
draft resolution III, entitled “Intensification of efforts 
6/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against 
women  and  girls:  sexual  harassment”,  on  which  a 
separate recorded vote has been requested on operative 
paragraphs 8 (d) and 11.
I now call on the representative of the Netherlands 
on a point of order.
Mr.  Oppenheimer  (Netherlands):  We  are  a  little 
surprised by what is going on because we have not been 
informed about a vote. There is now suddenly a vote on 
draft resolution III, and we do not really know what we 
are voting on.
If we are voting on keeping the text as we agreed 
in the Third Committee, by all means let us go ahead. 
However, it is very unclear. I am looking at the screen 
and I am quite certain about the outcome of the voting, 
so  I  do  not  necessarily  want  to  stop  it,  given  that  it 
looks positive. But we are confused about what is going 
on.  Let  us  continue  the  voting,  but  we  would  like  to 
understand what we are voting on.
The President (spoke in Spanish): The delegation 
of the United States has requested a vote on operative 
paragraphs  8  (d)  and  11.  The  representative  of  the 
Netherlands is correct in saying that draft resolution III 
was adopted in the Third Committee without a vote.
We  will  now  proceed  to  take  action  on  draft 
resolution III. The Assembly will first take a decision 
on  the  proposal  to  delete  paragraphs  8  (d)  and  11.  A 
recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Argentina, 
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Cabo  Verde,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Eswatini,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, 
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, 
Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and  Northern 
Ireland,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
United States of America
Abstaining:
Angola,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Bhutan,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Chad,  Comoros,  Democratic  Republic 
of the Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, 
Gambia,  Ghana,  Guatemala,  Honduras, 
Iraq, 
Jamaica, Malaysia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Philippines, 
Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Togo
Operative paragraphs 8 (d) and 11 were retained 
by 130 votes to 1, with 31 abstentions.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Third 
Committee adopted draft resolution III without a vote. 
May I take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft  resolution  III,  as  a  whole,  was  adopted 
(resolution 73/148).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
IV  is  entitled  “Intensifying  global  efforts  for  the 
elimination  of  female  genital  mutilation”.  The  Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution IV was adopted (resolution 73/149).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  shall  now 
turn  to  paragraph  38  of  the  report  to  take  action  on 
the  draft  decision,  entitled  “Documents  considered 
by the General Assembly in connection with the item 
‘Advancement  of  women’”.  The  Third  Committee 
18-44315
7/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
The draft decision was adopted (decision 73/523).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I  take  it 
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 29?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 65
Report of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Refugees, questions relating to refugees, 
returnees and displaced persons and humanitarian 
questions
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/583)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has before it two draft resolutions recommended by the 
Third Committee in paragraph 16 of its report.
I shall now call on those representatives who wish 
to speak in explanation of vote or position before action 
is taken on draft resolutions I and II.
help  us  deliver  a  more  effective  response,  putting  the 
rights  and  potential  of  refugees  and  their  hosts  at  the 
heart of a more comprehensive approach.
We look forward to assessing our common progress 
at the first Global Refugee Forum, to be held in one year’s 
time. We commend UNHCR for the comprehensive and 
transparent  process  of  consultation  it  conducted  with 
Member States in Geneva to develop the global compact 
on  refugees,  and  we  underline  the  importance  of  its 
implementation.  Once  implemented  and  supported,  it 
has the potential to strengthen international solidarity 
and  responsibility,  sharing  and  paving  the  way  for  a 
more effective, collective response to one of the central 
global challenges of our time.
The UNHCR omnibus resolution has to date always 
been  adopted  by  consensus  in  the  General  Assembly 
and  has  never  been  adopted  by  vote.  Our  colleagues 
in  Geneva  worked  hard  for  over  a  month  to  agree  on 
important  changes  and  additions  to  this  year’s  draft 
resolution.  At  its  adoption  in  the  Third  Committee 
some weeks ago, an overwhelming majority of Member 
States  expressed  their  support  for  it  and  the  work  of 
UNHCR.
Ms. Schoulgin Nyoni (Sweden): I am honoured to 
make this statement today on behalf of the five Nordic 
countries: Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and my 
own country, Sweden. 
As  a  facilitator  of  this  year’s  draft  resolution  and 
on  behalf  of  the  Nordic  countries,  I  today  encourage 
all Member States to support it and vote in favour of its 
adoption by the General Assembly.
The  work  on  draft  resolution  II,  on  the  Office  of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
(UNHCR), the so-called UNHCR omnibus resolution, is 
traditionally facilitated by one of the Nordic countries. 
This year it has been our privilege to facilitate the draft 
resolution  in  Geneva  and  to  present  it  to  the  General 
Assembly in New York.
The  subject  matter  of  the  draft  resolution  is  the 
mandate  and  work  of  the  United  Nations  refugee 
agency,  UNHCR.  It  is  a  humanitarian,  non-political 
text, dealing with the common ground that will enable 
UNHCR to continue to work in the interests of us all 
and,  most  essentially,  for  the  benefit  of  refugees  and 
other persons of concern under its mandate.
This year, as delegations are aware, is an especially 
important one for the UNHCR omnibus draft resolution. 
The  New  York  Declaration  stipulates  that  the  global 
compact on refugees is to be presented to the Assembly 
for  its  consideration  in  conjunction  with  the  UNHCR 
draft  resolution.  The  compact  is  the  tool  kit  that  will 
Mr. Schulz (Germany): I have the honour to deliver 
this statement on behalf of France, the Netherlands and 
my own country, Germany.
Two  years  ago  we  adopted 
the  New  York 
Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants,  recognizing 
that more equitable burden- and responsibility-sharing 
is  indispensable  if  we  want  to  provide  sustainable 
solutions  for  the  world’s  refugees  and  those  who  host 
them. The global compact on refugees is a major step 
in  that  direction.  It  is,  however,  not  only  a  historical 
necessity  but  also  a  great  opportunity  to  modernize 
and  enhance  refugee  responses.  It  will  serve  as  a 
toolbox  to  address  and  respond  effectively  to  various 
situations that may arise and as a platform to build new 
partnerships. Its real added value will be its capacity to 
mobilize more States and stakeholders around common 
objectives, with mutual commitments to address needs 
at national and regional levels.
The development of the global compact on refugees 
was guided and inspired by the practical application of 
8/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
the  comprehensive  refugee  response  framework  over 
the past two years. The framework has been a catalyst 
for change and has generated positive, concrete results 
for  refugees  and  host  communities  in  a  number  of 
countries. Its roll-out in Central America and the Horn 
of Africa are great examples of what such broad-based 
processes can deliver on the ground.
By affirming the compact, we demonstrate once more 
our  shared  conviction  that  solidarity  and  cooperation 
are the only way to effectively address today’s refugee 
movements. Germany, France and the Netherlands have 
contributed their share and will continue to do so. We 
strongly  commend  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)  for  its 
leadership  in  the  significant  and  sometimes  difficult 
process  it  was  tasked  with,  culminating  in  the  first-
ever  global  compact  on  refugees.  We  sincerely  thank 
the Swedish facilitation team for its relentless efforts, 
which  led  to  the  successful  completion  of  this  year’s 
draft resolution on the UNHCR (draft resolution II.)
Germany, France and the Netherlands stand firmly 
behind the global compact on refugees and look forward 
to starting its implementation through the adoption of 
the  UNHCR  omnibus  draft  resolution  by  the  General 
Assembly. That will signal a tangible shift towards a new, 
comprehensive way of approaching refugee protection 
and solutions. It will also confirm the political will and 
ambition of the international community in addressing 
forced displacements worldwide.
Germany, France and the Netherlands will vote in 
favour of the adoption of the draft resolution before us. 
We urge all Member States to do the same. Let us seize 
this unique, probably once-in-a-generation, opportunity 
to open a new chapter in our joint endeavour: to provide 
support and solutions to the millions of refugees around 
the world and those who generously host them.
Mr.  Al-Khalil  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): The global compact on refugees is the outcome 
of consultations, and not negotiations. It is therefore not 
binding on Member States.
My  delegation  reiterates  that  there  is  a  need  for 
commitment  to  the  principles  of  professionalism, 
neutrality and non-politicization , while respecting the 
Charter of the United Nations. The Office of the United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  should 
increase  its  efforts  to  facilitate  the  voluntary  return 
of refugees, including Syrian refugees, and to support 
the  relevant  efforts  of  the  Syrian  Government.  Racist 
practices,  discrimination  and  xenophobia  against 
refugees, including Syrians, must also be eliminated.
Ms. González (Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela) 
(spoke in Spanish): Venezuela recognizes the importance 
of draft resolution II in the context of implementing the 
commitments  of  the  2016  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees  and  Migrants.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  of 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Refugees (UNHCR) in proposing a global compact 
for refugees, which could be implemented voluntarily 
according to the guiding principles.
  Much  work  remains  to  be  done  to  ensure  that 
the  concerns  of  developing  countries  and  the  main 
host  countries  are  taken  into  account  during  the 
implementation of the compact. We welcome the support 
in the text for the voluntary return and repatriation, as it 
fully recognizes the rights of citizens to remain in their 
countries of origin if they so wish. We wish to highlight 
that this right must never be prevented or affected by 
the implementation of coercive unilateral measures or 
other  forms  of  neocolonialism,  blockades  or  foreign 
intervention  aimed  at  paralysing  the  economic  and 
social development of States.
Venezuela  recognizes  the  positive  contributions 
of  the  global  compact.  However,  we  must  warn  that 
its  implementation  must  strictly  adhere  to  its  guiding 
principles  and  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United Nations. We urge against any effort to convert it 
into a tool for intervention that could be used by some 
States. No manipulation or selective interpretation of its 
objectives should be accepted, nor should its provisions 
be made more flexible.
We  therefore  urge  that  due  respect  be  paid  to 
UNHCR’s  mandate,  established  by  the  statute  of 
resolution 428 (V), of 1950, and resolution 46/182, on 
strengthening coordination for emergency humanitarian 
relief  and  humanitarian  principles.  Humanitarian 
principles  are  fundamental  and  must  guarantee  the 
non-politicization  of  its  implementation,  in  particular 
when  linked  to  mechanisms  for  the  distribution  of 
burden and responsibilities, such as support platforms 
or forums on refugees.
For those reasons Venezuela will vote in favour of 
this draft resolution.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  will  now 
take decisions on draft resolutions I and II one by one.
18-44315
9/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Draft resolution I is entitled “Assistance to refugees, 
returnees and displaced persons in Africa”. The Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 73/150).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
II  is  entitled  “Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees”.  A  recorded  vote  has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon, 
Canada,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Ecuador, Egypt, El 
Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Estonia,  Eswatini, 
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Hungary, United States of America
Abstaining:
Dominican Republic, Eritrea, Libya
Draft resolution II was adopted by 181 votes to 2, 
with 3 abstentions (resolution 73/151).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the  floor  to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the 
resolutions just adopted, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Ms. Bogyay (Hungary): Hungary is a strong, long-
time supporter of the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and its mandate. 
We reaffirm our commitment to the full implementation 
of  the  1951  United  Nations  Convention  relating  to 
the  Status  of  Refugees  and  its  1967  Protocol.  We  are 
grateful  to  UNHCR  and  humanitarian  personnel  for 
their tireless work to deliver a humanitarian response 
to  the  needs  of  refugees,  internally  displaced  persons 
and other persons of concern.
Budapest  hosts 
long-term  support  from 
the  UNHCR  regional  office 
and  shared  service  centre  for  Central  Europe,  with 
generous 
the  Hungarian 
Government,  which  is,  again,  a  token  of  Hungary’s 
commitment  to  UNHCR  and  the  cause  it  represents. 
However, the Hungarian Government has decided not 
to  join  the  global  compact  on  refugees.  As  Hungary 
indicated  during  the  negotiations  on  the  document  in 
Geneva,  the  Government  considers  that  the  existing 
international  legal  framework  adequately  addresses 
refugee  and  asylum  matters;  consequently, 
the 
Government considers that there is no necessity for a 
new instrument in that regard. It is also concerned that 
the  differentiation  between  refugees  and  migrants,  as 
well as the voluntary nature of responsibility-sharing, 
are not adequately reflected in the compact.
10/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
For  those  reasons,  the  Hungarian  Government 
is  not  in  a  position  to  agree  with  paragraphs  23  and 
24 of resolution 73/151, which affirm and call for the 
implementation  of  the  global  compact  on  refugees. 
Therefore, Hungry voted against resolution 73/151.
Mr.  Kashaev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We voted in favour of resolution 73/151. We 
thank  the  sponsors  and  the  delegation  of  Sweden  for 
preparing the draft. We believe that the effect of the work 
of Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for 
Refugees  (UNHCR)  on  strengthening  international 
protection  for  refugees,  internally  displaced  persons 
and stateless persons is relevant and necessary. We will 
continue to provide comprehensive support to UNHCR.
Regarding  the  global  compact  on  refugees,  we 
would  like  to  note  the  following.  We  believe  that  the 
compact  will  facilitate  the  protection  of  the  rights 
and improvement of the situation of refugees and will 
strengthen  the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  UNHCR 
within its existing mandate. We would once again like 
to  reiterate  our  position  on  the  use  of  responsibility-
sharing.  We  interpret  that  term,  under  the  1951 
Convention  relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  and  its 
1967 Protocol, as the solidarity of the global community 
in addressing the problem of refugees.
We  also  believe  that  a  decision  to  host  refugees 
can  be  taken  only  by  the  host  country,  in  accordance 
with  its  national  legislation  and  its  international 
obligations.  The  rights  of  refugees  do  not  extend  to 
persons who have committed crimes against peace, war 
crimes or crimes against humanity. We believe that the 
responsibility  of  States  to  grant  labour  rights,  social 
support and Government assistance to refugees applies 
only to refugees who are legally present in the territory 
of  that  country.  We  also  believe  that  climate  change, 
environmental  degradation  and  natural  disasters 
cannot be construed under international law as reasons 
for refugee displacement.
Given 
those  considerations,  we  believe 
the 
provisions  in  the  global  compact  on  refugees  are  not 
legally  binding  and  do  not  place  any  obligations, 
including  legal  and  financial  obligations,  on  the 
Russian Federation.
Ms.  Shoman  Khot  (Jordan):  I  would  like  to 
reiterate  my  country’s  support  for  resolution  73/151. 
In that regard, we would like to explain the following 
points with regard to the global compact on refugees.
Throughout  the  process,  the  delegation  of  Jordan 
indicated  clearly  its  position  with  regard  to  the  New 
York  Declaration  for  Refugees  and  Migrants,  the 
comprehensive  refugee  response  framework  and  the 
global  compact  on  refugees.  As  a  major  traditional 
host  country,  we  believe 
importance  of 
operationalizing 
the  principles  of  solidarity  and 
burden- and responsibility-sharing and of establishing 
the  necessary  mechanisms  or  arrangements 
to 
implement them.
the 
in 
The  New  York  Declaration  committed  to  more 
equitable burden- and responsibility-sharing, as well as 
to support for host countries and communities. There 
was also a commitment to strengthen the resilience of 
host  countries  and  communities  and  of  community-
based  development  programmes  that  benefit  both 
refugees and host communities. It is our understanding 
that the compact does not alter that. That understanding 
and the points that follow from it guide our position on 
the New York Declaration, the comprehensive refugee 
response framework and the compact.
Nothing in the text or the context of implementation 
of  the  compact,  the  comprehensive  refugee  response 
framework  and  the  New  York  Declaration  may  be 
interpreted  as  altering  what  is  stipulated  in  the  1951 
Convention  relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees,  which 
clearly  states  that  the  Convention  shall  not  apply  to 
persons  who  are  at  present  receiving  protection  or 
assistance  from  organs  or  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations  other  than  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees.
Nothing in the New York Declaration, the compact 
or the comprehensive refugee response framework may 
be  interpreted  in  a  way  that  would  extend  the  scope 
or change the definition of the term refugee, confirm 
rights  or  expand  the  scope  of  protection  to  subjects 
that  do  not  enjoy  them,  or  redefine  the  principle  of 
non-refoulement and/or extend its scope of application 
to  categories  that  this  principle  had  not  intended  to 
cover in the 1951 Convention, when State security is at 
risk or we rightly interpret the sovereign right of a State 
to control its border.
Jordan does not consider itself bound or committed 
to regional or international instruments listed to which 
it  is  not  party,  or  to  guidelines  or  other  international 
decisions,  conclusions  or  resolutions  on  which  we 
made  clear  our  position,  or  to  reports  and  outcomes 
of  non-intergovernmental  processes  that  we  have  not 
18-44315
11/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
participated in or endorsed. That is true, for example, 
with  respect  to  the  instruments  on  statelessness  and 
migration. The same position also applies to references 
and footnotes.
Refugee  status  ceases  once  the  reason  that  had 
led  to  identifying  the  status  as  stipulated  in  the  1951 
Convention ceases to exist. Countries of origin should 
receive  their  nationals  upon  that  eventuality.  States 
must readmit their returning nationals and ensure that 
they are received without undue delay.
On solutions, our understanding is that other local 
solutions  referred  to  are  temporary  and  are  interim 
solutions  that  are  subject  to  international  cooperation 
and solidarity and burden-sharing. The root causes of 
flight  in  countries  of  origin  should  be  addressed  and 
relevant solutions in those countries should be found to 
prevent movement in the first place or, should movement 
take place, to create the conditions for return.
Mr.  Iglesias  Mori  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Chile  welcomes  resolution  73/151  in  line  with  our 
national legislation, in particular the provisions of Law 
No. 20430, which regulates the matter in our country. 
We reaffirm Chile’s long-standing contribution to the 
international  community  with  respect  to  refugees, 
which  we  will  always  continue.  Chile  considers  the 
needs  of  asylum  seekers  in  the  light  of  our  country’s 
available means and resources.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the  last  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  on  this  item. 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its 
consideration of agenda item 65.
Agenda item 69
Report of the Human Rights Council
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/584)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has  before  it  a  draft  resolution  recommended  by  the 
Third Committee in paragraph 11 of its report, entitled 
“Report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council”.  We  will  now 
take a decision on the draft resolution. A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, 
Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Cameroon, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, 
Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial 
Guinea,  Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon, 
Gambia,  Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  India, 
Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Sri  Lanka, 
Sudan,  Suriname,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste,  Togo, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Tuvalu,  Uganda, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic 
of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Belarus, Israel, Myanmar, United States of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Australia,  Austria, 
Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria, 
Canada,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Iran (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Kazakhstan, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malta,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand,  Norway,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Spain,  Sweden, 
Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey, 
Ukraine,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, Uzbekistan
12/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
The draft resolution was adopted by 121 votes to 4, 
with 60 abstentions (resolution 73/152).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the  floor  to  those  representatives  who  wish  to  speak 
in  explanation  of  vote  on  the  resolution  just  adopted, 
may I remind delegations that explanations are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Poveda  Brito 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): The Bolivarian Republic 
of  Venezuela  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  73/152,  on 
the  basis  of  a  position  of  principle.  We  reaffirm  the 
importance  of  this  subsidiary  body  of  the  General 
Assembly as the supreme body on this very important 
matter  with  regard 
to  cooperation  and  dialogue 
with States.
However,  Venezuela  affirms  its  condemnation  of 
the  adoption  of  resolutions  and  special  procedures  or 
any  other  mechanism  on  the  human  rights  situation 
in  specific  countries.  Furthermore,  we  reject  the 
selective manner in which this process is handled and 
its politically motivated objectives, which constitute a 
violation of the principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations. Therefore, Venezuela disassociates itself from 
document HRC/39/1.
The  continued  practice  of  the  selective  adoption 
of  resolutions  regarding  human  rights  situations  in 
specific  countries  goes  beyond  the  competencies  of 
the Human Rights Council and violates the principles 
of  universality,  objectivity  and  non-selectivity  with 
which  all  human  rights  topics  should  be  approached. 
Cooperation  and  dialogue  are  the  appropriate  means, 
as  well  as  essential  principles,  for  achieving  the 
effective promotion and protection of human rights. In 
that regard, we support the positions reiterated by the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries in this area.
Venezuela  calls  for  strengthening  the  positive 
progress  made  since  the  establishment  of  the  Human 
Rights Council. We wish to see the Universal Periodic 
Review adopted as the preferred formula for cooperation 
when  addressing  human  rights  matters.  We  also  call 
for  the  practice  of  selective  adoption  of  resolutions 
by  countries  to  be  eliminated,  as  it  undermines  the 
mandate of the Human Rights Council.
While  we  support  the  report  in  its  entirety,  my 
delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  its  position  of 
principle. We are concerned by certain aspects of the 
report,  especially  as  concerns  the  resolution,  which 
targets  and  singles  out  specific  countries,  including 
Burundi. Burundi remains convinced that any progress 
in  the  area  of  human  rights  must  come  through 
dialogue,  cooperation  and  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review mechanism.
Without  repeating  what  we  already  stated  at 
the  Third  Committee,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
dissociate  itself  from  the  section  of  the  report  that 
targets Burundi, in particular all passages pertaining to 
the Commission of Inquiry on Burundi.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote on the resolution 
just adopted.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 69?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 70
Promotion and protection of the rights of children
(a) Promotion and protection of the rights of 
children
(b) Follow-up to the outcome of the special session 
on children
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/585)
Draft amendment (A/73/L.59)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has before it three draft resolutions recommended by the 
Third Committee in paragraph 56 of its report, as well 
as one draft decision recommended by the Committee 
in paragraph 57 of the same report. In connection with 
draft resolution III, the Assembly has before it a draft 
amendment circulated in document A/73/L.59.
Before giving the floor to representatives who wish 
to speak in explanations of vote before the voting, may 
I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  are  limited  to 
10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Ms. Ndayishimiye (Burundi) (spoke in French): I 
would like to make the following statement following 
the adoption of resolution 73/152. 
Mrs.  Ahmed  (Sudan):  As  previously  and  clearly 
stated, my delegation has serious reservations regarding 
the  inclusion  in  draft  resolution  III  of  any  references 
18-44315
13/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
to the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC) and the gratuitous use of the draft resolution to 
call for, propagate and exert unacceptable pressure on 
Member States to include such references and language, 
which jeopardize the ongoing peacebuilding efforts in 
my country aimed at safeguarding the rights of children 
in the Sudan.
in  Darfur, 
As  Member  States  are  aware,  the  delisting  of  the 
Sudan from the group of States in which the rights of 
children  are  violated,  in  the  context  of  the  currently 
de-escalating  conflict 
is  a  milestone 
achievement.  Since  the  year  2003  and  throughout  the 
long  period  during  which  we  addressed  the  conflict 
in  Darfur,  the  International  Criminal  Court  has  been 
an  impediment  to  peace.  All  efforts  towards  lasting 
peace were hampered by the ICC simply because of its 
interference, which has always been malignant since its 
entry into force in 2002. At best, the ICC is a threat to 
stability and peace in my country.
The  ICC  is  not  an  organ  of  the  United  Nations, 
in  spite  of  the  repeated  attempts  by  some  parties  to 
maintain otherwise at meetings of the Main Committees 
of  the  General  Assembly.  Since  2008,  at  consecutive 
African Union Summits, Heads of State have decided 
not  to  cooperate  with  the  ICC  until  pending  issues 
regarding  the  questions  related  to  articles  13,  17  and 
98 of the Rome Statute are answered and the targeting 
of African leaders as a way of showing that the ICC is 
functional has ceased. At its ministerial conference in 
April  2018,  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries 
supported that position.
My delegation distances itself from the Court and, 
as such, kindly refers the Assembly to the amendment 
contained  in  document  A/73/L.59,  with  regard  to 
paragraph 51 of the draft resolution on the rights of the 
child. We request that it be put to the vote and call upon 
Member States to support our amendment by deleting 
the following words at the end of the paragraph:
“and calls upon the international community to hold 
those responsible for violations accountable, inter 
alia, through the International Criminal Court”.
Mr.  Paolino  Laborde 
(spoke 
in 
Spanish): Paragraph 51 of the draft resolution includes 
the agreed language on children and armed conflict that 
has  been  adopted  every  year  for  more  than  10  years. 
The  paragraph  calls  upon  States  to  protect  children 
affected by armed conflict, in particular from violations 
of  international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights 
(Uruguay) 
law,  and  to  ensure  that  they  receive  timely,  effective 
humanitarian  assistance,  while  noting  the  efforts 
taken to end impunity by ensuring accountability and 
punishing perpetrators, and calls upon the international 
community  to  hold  those  responsible  for  violations 
accountable, 
the  International 
Criminal Court.
inter  alia, 
through 
The Court is the main permanent court established 
to end impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes against individuals and their rights that are of 
concern  to  the  international  community,  as  a  whole. 
Such  crimes  include  violations  of  the  rights  of  the 
child.  It  represents  an  important  achievement  of  the 
international community in its effort to create a rules-
based  world  order  and  a  key  instrument  for  ensuring 
that those accused of committing serious crimes, under 
the  principle  of  complementarity,  are  tried  before  the 
Court in full respect of their rights and international law, 
thereby promoting the global fight against impunity.
The  role  of  the  Court  in  protecting  children  in 
situations of armed conflict is clearly stipulated in the 
various provisions of the Rome Statute, in particular in 
articles 6, 7, 8, 36, 42, 54 and 68. In that regard, a clear 
reference  to  the  Court  in  the  draft  resolution  is  vital 
and  all  the  more  relevant  given  the  case  Prosecutor 
v.  Thomas  Lubanga  and  his  sentencing  for  recruiting 
and  enlisting  children  under  15  to  engage  in  hostile 
activities, as well as other cases now before the Court.
For  those  reasons,  the  main  sponsors  of  the  draft 
resolution  understand  that  the  language  of  paragraph 
51 pertaining to the International Criminal Court is not 
only accurate in terms of rights but also very relevant 
and  timely.  We  must  therefore  retain  it  as  part  of  the 
text, as has been agreed for several years now. For those 
reasons,  we  cannot  accept  the  draft  amendment.  The 
main sponsors of the draft resolution call for it to be put 
to the vote. We will vote against the draft amendment 
and urge other delegations to do the same.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  shall  now 
take a decision on draft resolutions I to III and the draft 
decision, one by one.
We turn first to draft resolution I, entitled “Child, 
early and forced marriage”.
(spoke in English)
A single, separate recorded vote has been requested 
by  the  United  States  on  the  twenty-third  preambular 
14/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
paragraph  and  operative  paragraphs  14,  17  and  18  of 
draft resolution I.
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United Arab 
Emirates, Yemen
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Belgium,  Belize,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Cabo Verde, Cameroon, Canada, 
Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India, 
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kiribati,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Romania,  Rwanda,  Samoa,  San  Marino, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Serbia,  Seychelles, 
Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Solomon  Islands,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan, 
Spain,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Timor-Leste,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
Nauru, United States of America
Abstaining
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus,  Bhutan,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Guatemala,  Guyana,  Haiti, 
Honduras, 
Jordan,  Kuwait, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Russian 
Federation,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Jamaica, 
Iraq, 
twenty-third  preambular  paragraph  and 
The 
operative paragraphs 14, 17 and 18 were retained 
by 134 votes to 2, with 32 abstentions.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Third 
Committee  adopted  draft  resolution  I,  as  a  whole,  
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
Draft  resolution  I,  as  a  whole,  was  adopted 
(resolution 73/153).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
II is entitled “Protecting children from bullying”. The 
Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take 
it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 73/154).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
III is entitled “Rights of the child”. The Assembly has 
before  it  a  draft  amendment,  which  was  circulated  as 
document A/73/L.59. In accordance with article 90 of 
the rules of the procedure, the Assembly will first take 
a decision on the draft amendment. A recorded vote has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  China, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Egypt, 
Eritrea, 
Iraq,  Pakistan,  Russian  Federation, 
Seychelles,  South  Sudan,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic
Against
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia, 
Austria,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Bosnia and 
Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cabo 
Verde,  Canada,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad, 
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gambia,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, 
Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia, 
18-44315
15/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Maldives,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Niger, 
Nigeria,  Norway,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Spain,  Sweden, 
Switzerland,  Thailand, 
former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic 
of), Yemen, Zambia
the 
Abstaining
Algeria,  Bhutan,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Ethiopia, 
India,  Indonesia,  Israel,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 
Malaysia,  Mali,  Mauritius,  Morocco,  Myanmar, 
Nepal,  Philippines,  Rwanda,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Singapore,  Sri  Lanka,  Suriname,  Togo,  Turkey, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  States  of 
America, Viet Nam
Draft  amendment  A/73/L.59  was  rejected  by  15 
votes to 116, with 30 abstentions.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Third 
Committee  adopted  draft  resolution  III,  as  a  whole, 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
Draft  resolution  III  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/155).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  will  now 
turn to paragraph 57 of the report to take action on the 
draft  decision  entitled  “Document  considered  by  the 
General  Assembly  in  connection  with  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  the  rights  of  children”.  The  Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft decision was adopted (decision 73/524).
The President (spoke in Spanish): I shall now give 
the floor to those representatives who wish to speak in 
explanation of vote or position on the resolutions and 
decision just adopted.
Ms. Korac (United States of America): We regret 
that we were unable to deliver this statement at the time 
of adoption in the Third Committee, but wish to take 
this opportunity to provide clarification of the United 
States  position  regarding  elements  of  this  important 
resolution, entitled “Child, early and forced marriage” 
(resolution 73/153). 
We regret that the United States proposal to delete 
preambular paragraph 23 and paragraphs 14, 17 and 18 
was not adopted. The United States disassociates itself 
from  preambular  paragraph  23  and  paragraphs  14, 
17, and 18 because of its concerns about wording that 
exceeds prior international consensus on issues related 
to reproductive health care.
The  United  States  believes  that  women  should 
have  equal  access  to  reproductive  health  care.  We 
remain  committed  to  the  commitments  set  out  in  the 
Beijing  Declaration  and  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development. As has been made clear over many years, 
there is international consensus that the Declaration and 
Programme of Action do not create new international 
rights,  including  any  right  to  abortion.  The  United 
States fully supports the principle of voluntary choice 
regarding  maternal  and  child  health  and  family 
planning. We do not recognize abortion as a method of 
family planning or support abortion in our reproductive 
health assistance. We also note that the United States 
is the largest bilateral donor of reproductive health and 
family planning assistance.
With  regard  to  this  resolution’s  references  to  the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  we  note 
that  we  addressed  our  concerns  during  the  Third 
Committee session. The United States understands that 
General Assembly resolutions do not change the current 
state of conventional or customary international law, or 
does the Universal Declaration of Human Rights itself 
create legal obligations. We do not read this resolution 
to imply that States must join or implement obligations 
under  international  instruments  to  which  they  are 
not  party,  and  the  United  States  understands  that  any 
reaffirmation of prior documents applies only to those 
States that affirmed them initially and, in the case of 
international  treaties  or  conventions,  to  those  States 
that are party to them.
16/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
We  note  that  in  the  United  States  decisions 
regarding  education  funding  and  curricular  and  other 
education  policies,  materials  and  programmes  are 
made as appropriate and consistent with our respective 
federal, state or local authorities. We also note that any 
potential  actions  to  address  school-related  violence, 
including sexual and gender-based violence, should be 
consistent with applicable due process protections.
Mr. Iglesias Mori (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): The 
delegation  of  Chile  wishes  to  express  its  reservations 
concerning  the  eighth  preambular  paragraph  and 
paragraphs  35,  36,  37  and  38  of  resolution  73/155,  on 
rights of the child.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  May  I  take  it 
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 70?
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
its 
Assembly  has 
this  stage  of 
consideration of agenda item 70 and its sub-item (a).
thus  concluded 
Mr.  Ten-Pow 
the Chair.
(Guyana),  Vice-President, 
took 
Agenda item 71
Rights of indigenous peoples
(a) Rights of indigenous peoples
(b) Follow-up to the outcome document of the 
high-level plenary meeting of the General 
Assembly known as the World Conference on 
Indigenous Peoples.
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/586)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  before 
it  a  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Rights  of  indigenous 
peoples”,  recommended  by  the  Third  Committee  in 
paragraph 8 of its report.
We will now take a decision on the draft resolution. 
The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I 
take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/156).
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 
the  representative  of  Chile,  who  wishes  to  speak  in 
explanation of position on the resolution just adopted.
Mr. Iglesias Mori (Chile): The delegation of Chile 
wishes  to  express  its  reservations  with  regard  to  the 
seventh preambular paragraph of resolution 73/156.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (b) of Agenda item 71?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 71 and its sub-item (a).
Agenda item 72
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance
(a) Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance
(b) Comprehensive implementation of and follow-
up to the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of Action
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/587)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it 
two draft resolutions recommended by the Committee 
in paragraph 26 of its report.
Before proceeding further, I should like to inform 
members that action on draft resolution II, entitled “A 
global call for concrete action for the total elimination 
of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related 
intolerance  and  the  comprehensive  implementation 
of  and  follow-up  to  the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme of Action” is postponed to a later date to 
allow  time  for  the  review  of  its  programme  budget 
implications  by  the  Fifth  Committee.  The  Assembly 
will  take  action  on  draft  resolution  II  as  soon  as  the 
report of the Fifth Committee on its programme budget 
implications is available.
The General Assembly will now take a decision on 
draft resolution I. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, 
Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, Cabo Verde, 
Bahamas, 
18-44315
17/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa 
Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, 
Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Madagascar, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Nicaragua, 
Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Somalia, 
South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Ukraine, United States of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan, 
Kiribati, Latvia, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malta,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Palau, Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, Samoa, San Marino, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Solomon Islands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Tonga, 
Turkey,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland
Draft resolution I was adopted by 129 votes to 2, 
with 54 abstentions (resolution 73/157).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 72?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 72 and its sub-item (b).
Agenda item 73
Right of peoples to self-determination
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/588)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  before 
it  three  draft  resolutions  recommended  by  the  Third 
Committee in paragraph 24 of its report. We will now 
take a decision on draft resolutions I to III, one by one.
We  first  turn  to  draft  resolution  I,  entitled  “The 
right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination”. 
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Azerbaijan, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Central African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial 
Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland, 
France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
18/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea, 
Republic of Moldova, Romania, Russian Federation, 
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal, 
Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Canada,  Israel,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Nauru,  United  States  of 
America
Abstaining:
Australia,  Cameroon,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Honduras, 
Kiribati, Liberia, Palau, South Sudan, Togo, Tonga, 
Vanuatu
Draft resolution I was adopted by 172 votes to 6, 
with 11 abstentions (resolution 73/158).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  II  is 
entitled  “Use  of  mercenaries  as  a  means  of  violating 
human  rights  and  impeding  the  exercise  of  the  right 
of peoples to self-determination”. A recorded vote has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State  of),  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia, 
Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad, 
Chile,  China,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives, 
Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mongolia,  Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkmenistan, 
Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands, 
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova, Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America
Abstaining:
Colombia, Fiji, Liberia, Mexico, Palau, Papua New 
Guinea, Sao Tome and Principe, Solomon Islands, 
Switzerland, Tonga
Draft resolution II was adopted by 129 votes to 53, 
with 10 abstentions (resolution 73/159).
The  Acting  President:  We  now  turn  to  draft 
resolution  III,  entitled  “Universal  realization  of  the 
right  of  peoples  to  self-determination”.  The  Third 
18-44315
19/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft  resolution  III  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/160).
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Kyrgyzstan, who wishes to speak in 
explanation of position on the resolution just adopted.
Mr. Omurzakov (Kyrgyzstan) (spoke in Russian): 
The  Kyrgyz  Republic  is  firmly  committed  to  the 
norms  and  principles  of  international  law,  one  of 
which is the right of peoples to self-determination. We 
note  with  satisfaction  that  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  unanimously  supported  the  adoption 
of  resolution  73/160,  thereby  demonstrating  their 
commitment  to  the  ideals  of  freedom,  independence 
and the equality of all States and peoples of the world. 
The delegation of Kyrgyzstan would like to express its 
thanks to the delegation of Pakistan for its work on the 
resolution. 
Kyrgyzstan has consistently expressed its support 
for the resolution and is a sponsor of it. We believe it is 
a significant symbolic document that demonstrates the 
importance  of  the  right  of  peoples  to  determine  their 
own destiny. However, we also want to point out that 
the principle of the self-determination of peoples should 
not  be  interpreted  as  permitting  or  encouraging  any 
action that partially or wholly violates or undermines 
the  territorial  integrity  or  political  unity  of  sovereign 
independent States, as expressed in the Declaration on 
Principles  of  International  Law  concerning  Friendly 
Relations and Cooperation among States in accordance 
with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  adopted  on 
24 October 1970.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 73?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 74
Promotion and protection of human rights
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/589)
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  inform 
members that we will take action on sub-items (a) to (d) 
of agenda item 74 immediately after taking action on 
the main agenda item.
The  Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft  resolution 
recommended by the Third Committee in paragraph 9 
of its report, as well as a draft decision recommended 
by the Committee in paragraph 10 of the same report.
We will now take a decision on the draft resolution 
and on the draft decision, one by one.
We turn first to the draft resolution, entitled “World 
Braille Day”. The Third Committee adopted it without 
a  vote.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  do 
the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 73/161).
The  Acting  President:  We  now  turn  to  the  draft 
decision,  entitled  “Documents  considered  by 
the 
General  Assembly  in  connection  with  the  question  of 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights”.  The 
Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take 
it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
The draft decision was adopted (decision 73/525).
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 74.
(a) Implementation of human rights instruments
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/589/Add.1)
The Acting President: The Assembly has before it a 
draft resolution recommended by the Third Committee 
in  paragraph  21  of  its  report.  We  shall  now  take  a 
decision on the draft resolution, entitled “Human rights 
treaty body system”. The Third Committee adopted it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 73/162).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 74?
It was so decided.
(b) Human rights questions, including alternative 
approaches for improving the effective 
20/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/589/Add.2)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  before 
it  17  draft  resolutions  recommended  by  the  Third 
Committee in paragraph 162 of its report.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan  to  introduce  draft  amendments  A/73/L.57  and 
A/73/L.58.
Mr. Mohamed (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): I would 
like to thank you, Sir, for giving me the floor for the 
third time today.
My country’s delegation would like to submit two 
draft amendments, contained in documents A/73/L.57 
and A/73/L.58, to draft resolution X, recommended in 
the  report  of  the  Third  Committee  (A/73/589/Add.2) 
and  entitled  “Extrajudicial  summary  or  arbitrary 
executions”.  The  first  amendment  is  to  delete  the 
fifteenth  preambular  paragraph,  and 
the  second 
amendment is to delete paragraph 13, which both refer 
to the International Criminal Court (ICC). After it was 
completely  impossible  to  achieve  consensus  in  that 
regard with the facilitators of the draft resolution, we 
have a reservation on the reference to the ICC for the 
following reasons.
First, not all Member States are party to the Rome 
Statute, and no specific legal system may be imposed 
as  a  basic  benchmark  or  reference  through  all  or  any 
attempt to globalize the ICC system. On 14 December, 
we  indicated  in  the  Security  Council  the  structural 
deformities  in  the  Statute  of  the  ICC  when  we  were 
deliberating  the  twenty-eighth  report  submitted  by 
the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICC  (see  S/PV.8425).  We  also 
mentioned the gaps and loopholes that became apparent 
after  the  Statute  entered  into  force,  in  2001,  and 
categorically demonstrated that corruption is not related 
to only one or two persons in the ICC. The corruption 
of  the  Court  discourages  us  from  taking  it  seriously. 
We also stated that such corruption is institutional and 
integral to the ICC, the Rome Statute and the practices 
thereof.  During  the  past  13  years  the  ICC  has  proven 
itself to be notorious, given its corruption, which States 
and  the  media  are  aware  of.  In  that  regard,  I  would 
like to refer to the article in Der Spiegel magazine few 
months ago with regard to the corruption of the ICC.
chosen to be party to the ICC, but we do not agree on 
imposing  it  as  the  single  legal  system  throughout  the 
world.  We  insist  on  reconsidering  the  international 
criminal  system  so  that  it  is  commensurate  with  the 
hopes  and  aspirations  of  the  founders  of  the  United 
Nations in 1945 when they began thinking of building 
an international criminal system. Nobody at that time 
thought that the results would be so deplorable.
Given the fact that the international criminal system 
is related to the criminal responsibility of individuals 
and natural persons, we must bear in mind that 60 per 
cent of human beings are outside the legal jurisdiction 
of the ICC. We say 60 per cent of human beings because 
the jurisdiction of the ICC applies to natural persons. 
Therefore,  it  is  totally  unacceptable  for  such  persons 
to  be  subjected  to  a  jurisdiction  that  does  not  apply 
to them, in accordance with the peremptory principle 
of  international  law,  which  states  that  no  crime  can 
be  established  without  a  text.  Those  structural  flaws 
in  the  current  Statute  must  be  reconsidered  sooner 
or  later.  We  are  confident  that  will  take  place.  Also, 
we  know  that  the  Rome  Statute  lacks  integrity  and 
neutrality. That can be seen in its practice, because the 
ICC has exercised its jurisdiction only over the African 
continent and its leaders.
the  ICC 
is  considered  a  political 
instrument for the achievement of specific and narrow 
interests. The lack of credibility and neutrality of the 
ICC  was  evident  in  the  successive  withdrawals  by 
countries  from  its  Statute.  Given  the  fact  that  we  are 
not party to the Rome Statute, we have reservation with 
regard to any reference contained in the draft resolution 
before  us  to  the  Rome  Statute,  which  established  the 
ICC.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
assert that no liabilities may be imposed on any country 
beyond its sovereign right to be party or not to be party 
to a Treaty.
Secondly, 
There is another point that has been raised: that the 
Sudan  requested  a  recorded  vote  on  these  paragraphs 
in  various  draft  resolutions  of  the  Committees  and 
the  General  Assembly  recently.  Actually,  the  Sudan, 
from the very beginning, has been very consistent with 
regard to its reservations to the ICC and any attempts to 
include it in United Nations resolutions, because doing 
so  causes  clear  division  and  shameful  polarization 
among Member States, which we want to avoid.
  As  a  result  of  that,  confidence  in  the  ICC  is 
dwindling and weakening. We respect those that have 
The Sudan has never changed its objection against 
the ICC, we changed only the way in which we object 
18-44315
21/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
to the Rome Statute. As a State Member of the United 
Nations,  we  are  totally  free  to  choose  the  method  by 
which we object to the jurisdiction of the Court.
Therefore,  my  delegation  urges  other  countries 
to  support  the  two  draft  amendments  that  we  are 
introducing now, which we previously introduced in the 
Third Committee, and to vote in favour of them.
The Acting President: I shall now give the floor 
to delegations wishing to speak in explanation of vote 
or  position  on  any  or  all  of  the  17  draft  resolutions 
contained in document A/73/589/Add.2 and on the two 
draft amendments to draft resolution X.
(b),  entitled  “Human 
Ms.  Ferry  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French)  Under 
sub-item 
rights  questions, 
including  alternative  approaches  for  improving  the 
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental 
freedoms”,  of  agenda  item  74,  entitled  “Promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights”,  Monaco  intended  to 
co-sponsor  draft  resolution  XII,  entitled  “Terrorism 
and human rights”.
Mr.  Tanner  (Finland):  It  is  with  deep  regret  that 
my  delegation  notes  draft  amendments  A/73/L.57 
and  A/73/L.58,  proposed  by  the  delegation  of  the 
Sudan,  to  the  fifteenth  preambular  paragraph  and 
operative  paragraph  13  of  draft  resolution  X,  entitled 
“Extrajudicial summary or arbitrary executions”, which 
refer to the Rome Statute. The draft amendments were 
defeated by clear numbers in the Third Committee. 
On behalf of the Nordic countries, Finland reiterates 
its  unwavering  support  for  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  as  an  important  tool  of  the  international 
community  for  fighting  impunity  and  contributing  to 
peaceful societies. The gross violations of international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law  that  we 
witness  worldwide,  especially  extrajudicial  summary 
and  arbitrary  executions,  are  a  sharp  reminder  of  the 
increasing  relevance  of  the  Court,  the  role  of  which 
is  to  complement  rather  than  replace  national  justice 
systems.  The  primary  responsibility  for  investigating 
and prosecuting the most serious crimes remains with 
individual States. All perpetrators of such crimes must 
be held accountable for their actions.
is  especially  important  to  remember  this  year  as  we 
celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption 
of  the  Rome  Statute.  As  we  look  back  on  the  history 
of  its  existence,  the  impact  that  the  Court  has  had  in 
addressing impunity is clear. 
The President returned to the Chair.
For  those  reasons,  Finland  and  the  co-sponsors 
of  draft  resolution  X  will  vote  against  those  draft 
amendments. We call on all other States, in particular 
States parties to the Rome Statute, to also vote “no”. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  I  take  the  floor  to 
provide an explanation of our vote before the voting on 
draft resolution XIII, entitled “Moratorium on the use 
of the death penalty”.
While the death penalty has remained a prescribed 
form  of  punishment  in  the  Maldives  for  decades,  we 
are  proud  of  the  fact  that  an  informal  moratorium  on 
its use has been in existence since 1954, for more than 
60 years. It was only in 2014 that the Maldives enacted 
its  new  penal  code,  which  specifically  prescribes  the 
use of the death penalty for premeditated murder and 
deliberate manslaughter, which states that punishments 
for  crimes  for  which  retribution  or  the  restoration  of 
justice  is  required  must  be  carried  out  according  to 
the  principles  of  Islamic  sharia.  Article  10  of  the 
Constitution of Maldives stipulates that Islam should be 
the basis of all laws in the country. We fully maintain 
that legal measures in Islamic sharia relating to the use 
of this punishment must be rigorously and meticulously 
examined within the judicial framework to ensure that 
the enforcement of sentences is not arbitrary. 
However,  we  also  agree  that  the  Maldives  must 
undertake  a  thorough  process  in  which  the  judicial 
framework,  especially  the  criminal  justice  system 
in 
its  entirety,  must  be  reformed,  strengthened 
and  institutionalized.  It  is  the  intention  of  the  new 
Government  to  ensure  that  the  process  of  reform  is 
carried  out  without  delay  and  with  the  deliberate 
purpose  of  having  an  independent  and  impartial 
judiciary in the Maldives that commands the trust and 
confidence of the general public. 
A  key  element  in  the  Rome  Statute  is  its  equal 
application.  In  that  respect,  the  creation  of  the  ICC 
gave  millions  of  victims  of  atrocity  crimes  new  hope 
that  justice  would  be  done.  States  from  all  over  the 
world have joined efforts to make that possible, which 
The  reality  is  that  the  death  penalty  remains  on 
the books. To favour its abolition without wider public 
consultation and referendums, and without preceeding 
domestic  legislation  to  nullify  its  implementation, 
would be both unconstitutional and undemocratic. It is 
22/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
against that backdrop that we must take measures with 
a view to the task ahead. 
The  Maldives  will  uphold  its  existing  informal 
moratorium on the use of the death penalty. We will also 
work  in  tandem  with  our  international  and  domestic 
partners to bring about positive and meaningful changes 
to  the  judiciary  so  that  it  can  function  independently 
and impartially in its administration of justice. 
During  the  deliberations  at  the  Third  Committee 
in  November,  the  Maldives  voted  against  the  draft 
resolution  that  is  before  us.  While  the  Government 
is  committed  to  maintaining  the  moratorium,  for  the 
legal reasons I just outlined the Maldives will maintain 
its  position  in  the  plenary  and  vote  “no”  on  the  draft 
resolution entitled “Moratorium on the use of the death 
penalty”.
Ms.  Wagner  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 
Switzerland  would  like  to  explain  its  vote  on  draft 
resolution III, entitled “United Nations Declaration on 
the  Rights  of  Peasants  and  Other  People  Working  in 
Rural Areas”. The draft resolution was adopted by the 
Third Committee on 19 November under sub-item (b) 
of  agenda  item  74.  It  is  being  addressed  today  in  the 
report contained in document A/73/589/Add.2. 
Although  peasants  produce  the  majority  of  food 
products  in  the  world,  they  are  at  the  same  time 
disproportionately affected by poverty. Switzerland is 
committed  at  the  national  and  international  levels  to 
maintaining  and  developing  small-scale  agricultural 
systems.  For  that  reason,  Switzerland  has  in  recent 
years supported the development of the United Nations 
Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People 
Working  in  Rural  Areas.  We  are  co-sponsors  of  the 
draft resolution for the mandate of the working group 
in Geneva. 
The  Declaration  contained  in  the  annex  to  the 
draft  resolution  seeks  to  summarize  the  rights  of 
peasants in a single document in order to better raise 
awareness about their situation. It is a very important 
political  signal.  Moreover,  the  new  instrument  is  not 
legally binding; existing norms are therefore not called 
into  question  by  the  Declaration.  Switzerland  took 
part in the negotiations on the Declaration in an open 
and  constructive  spirit.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the 
majority of our concerns were taken into account. From 
our  point  of  view,  the  process  led  to  a  positive  and 
largely balanced results. 
For  the  reasons  I  mentioned,  Switzerland  voted 
in favour at the Human Rights Council and the Third 
Committee, but we did so with an explanation of vote 
to underscore the fact that the content and wording that 
Switzerland  would  have  preferred  was  not  reflected 
throughout  the  entire  text  of  the  Declaration  and  that 
the  Declaration  contains  certain  provisions  that  are 
problematic for Switzerland. We will today once again 
vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  and  the  new 
Declaration contained in the annex while repeating the 
following points. 
First, we would like to underscore that the agrarian 
reforms  mentioned  in  article  17,  paragraph  6,  would 
require  a  legal  procedure  with  the  necessary  legal 
safeguards, and that the expropriation of lands with a 
view to their redistribution should be accompanied by 
fair compensation. 
Secondly,  in  our  view,  article  19,  on  the  right  to 
seeds,  contains  problematic  provisions,  in  particular 
with regard to intellectual property, which Switzerland 
will  interpret  in  line  with  its  national  laws  and 
international  law.  We  refer  specifically  to  paragraphs 
1 (a), 1 (d), 4 and 8.
the 
existing 
reference 
Finally,  we  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Declaration  does  not 
adequately 
international 
environmental  regime  and  no  longer  incorporates 
sustainable  development.  While  such  an  approach  is 
necessary to ensure the rights of future generations of 
peasants,  we  regret  the  fact  that  the  Declaration  does 
not sufficiently mention the obligations tied to the rights 
of various stakeholders, for example, the obligation to 
implement environmental conventions. It is with those 
clarifications that Switzerland will vote in favour of the 
draft resolution.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I would like to refer to the statement made by 
my  colleague  His  Excellency  the  Ambassador  of  the 
Republic of the Sudan with regard to draft amendments 
A/73/L.57  and  A/73/L.58  to  draft  resolution  X,  as 
recommended  in  the  report  of  the  Third  Committee 
(A/73/589/Add.2). 
I  note  that  my  delegation  supports  the  draft 
amendments  put  forward  by  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan with regard to voting on the fifteenth preambular 
paragraph and paragraph 13 of draft resolution X with 
a view to deleting them. We support putting those two 
18-44315
23/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
paragraphs to the vote for the reasons explained by the 
representative of the Sudan.
Mr.  Gebru  (Ethiopia):  In  explanation  of  vote 
before  the  voting  on  draft  declaration  III,  entitled 
“United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants 
and Other People Working in Rural Areas”, I would like 
to make the following points. 
First, I would like to express Ethiopia’s appreciation 
to the facilitators of the draft Declaration for their hard 
work and the consultations they facilitated. 
Secondly, 
the  Constitution  of 
the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia recognizes the rights 
of  peasants  and  pastoralists,  including  the  right  to 
obtain  land  without  payment  and  protection  against 
eviction  from  their  possessions.  It  also  recognized 
the  right  of  pastoralists  to  have  access  to  free  land 
for  grazing  and  cultivation.  It  is  in  that  context  that 
Ethiopia constructively engaged in the negotiations on 
the draft United Nations Declaration on the Rights of 
Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas. 
Thirdly,  we  have,  however,  noted  the  expanded 
scope and application of the rights of peasants and other 
people working in rural areas, particularly in the context 
of  articles  7  and  21  of  the  draft  Declaration,  relating 
to  transboundary  tenure  and  water-related  issues, 
respectively.  Ethiopia  cannot  accept  the  expanded  the 
scope of articles 7 and 21 of the draft Declaration. We 
recognize article 7 and 21 of the draft Declaration to be 
limited to issues under the jurisdiction of States and not 
apply to transboundary issues.
Fourthly,  for  Ethiopia,  the  draft  Declaration  is  a 
non-legally  binding  instrument.  In  international  law 
and customary practice, the rights and duties of a State 
and its people are limited to the State’s territory and are 
subject  to  its  jurisdiction.  That  principle  is  explicitly 
prescribed in article 2, sub-article 1, of the International 
Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and  implicitly 
prescribed in all other international instruments. In line 
with  that  principle,  Ethiopia  understands  and  would 
like to underscore that the applicability and scope of the 
current draft United Nations Declaration on the Rights 
of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas 
are limited to the territory of each State and subject to 
its jurisdiction only.
Fifthly,  Ethiopia  appreciates 
inclusion  of 
article 28 in the Declaration. We believe the article is 
appropriate because of the non-legally binding nature 
the 
of  the  draft  Declaration.  In  keeping  the  aspirational 
nature of the draft Declaration and our collective will 
to work for its realization, Ethiopia would like to put on 
record and reaffirm that the current and future national 
laws of Ethiopia and its international obligations prevail 
over the Declaration. 
It is with that interpretation and understanding that 
Ethiopia will abstain in the voting on draft resolution 
III.  It  is  our  sincere  hope  that  our  concerns  will  be 
properly addressed in future negotiations so that we can 
align ourselves with the entire Declaration in future. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now take decisions on draft resolutions I to XVII 
one  by  one.  After  all  the  decisions  have  been  taken, 
representatives  will  again  have  an  opportunity  to 
explain their votes or positions. 
We first turn to draft resolution I, entitled “Human 
rights  and  extreme  poverty”.  The  Third  Committee 
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution I was adopted (resolution 73/163).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
II 
intolerance,  negative 
is  entitled  “Combating 
stereotyping, stigmatization, discrimination, incitement 
to  violence  and  violence  against  persons,  based  on 
religion  or  belief”.  The  Third  Committee  adopted  it 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
Draft resolution II was adopted (resolution 73/164).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
III is entitled “United Nations Declaration on the Rights 
of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas”.  
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Bahamas, 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Burundi,  Cabo  Verde, 
Cambodia,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad, 
Chile, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Cuba,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Djibouti, 
24/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana, 
Grenada,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Haiti,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Liberia,  Libya,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Switzer-
land,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
Australia,  Guatemala,  Hungary, 
Israel,  New 
Zealand, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Cameroon,  Canada,  Colombia,  Croatia,  Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Honduras,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Kiribati, 
Latvia,  Lesotho,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Malta, 
Montenegro, Netherlands, Norway, Palau, Poland, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Russian  Federation, 
Samoa, San Marino, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Spain, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, Vanuatu
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
IV is entitled “The right to development”. A recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State 
of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo 
Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Central  African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, 
Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Marshall 
Islands, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nauru, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Portugal, Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra 
Leone,  Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Re-public 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Draft resolution III was adopted by 121 votes to 8, 
with 54 abstentions (resolution 73/165). 
[Subsequently the delegation of China informed the 
Secretariat it had intended to vote in favour. ]
Against
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France, 
Germany,  Israel,  Netherlands,  Sweden,  Ukraine, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland, United States of America
18-44315
25/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Abstaining
Italy, 
Iceland, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bulgaria,  Canada,  Croatia,  Estonia,  Georgia, 
Hungary, 
Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Montenegro, 
New  Zealand,  Norway,  Palau,  Poland,  Republic 
of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  San 
Marino,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Switzerland, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Japan, 
Draft resolution IV was adopted by 148 votes to 11, 
with 32 abstentions (resolution 73/166).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
V  is  entitled  “Human  rights  and  unilateral  coercive 
measures”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State 
of), Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, 
Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Liberia,  Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation, 
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  Sao  Tome 
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
Ireland, 
Iceland, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Hungary, 
Israel, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America
Abstaining
Brazil, Kiribati, Palau
Draft resolution V was adopted by 133 votes to 53, 
with 3 abstentions (resolution 73/167).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
VI 
is 
international 
cooperation  in  the  field  of  human  rights”.  The  Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do likewise?
“Enhancement  of 
entitled 
Draft resolution VI was adopted (resolution 73/168).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
VII  is  entitled  “Promotion  of  a  democratic  and 
equitable  international  order”.  A  recorded  vote  has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Cameroon, 
Central African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, 
Congo,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
26/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicara-gua,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation, 
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and 
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South 
Africa, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
Ireland, 
Iceland, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Hungary, 
Israel, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America
Abstaining
Armenia,  Brazil,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Mexico, Peru
Draft  resolution  VII  was  adopted  by  131  votes  to 
53, with 7 abstentions (resolution 73/169).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
VIII  is  entitled  “Promotion  of  peace  as  a  vital 
requirement for the full enjoyment of all human rights 
by all”. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State  of),  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia, 
Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa 
Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Gambia, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Nicaragua,  Niger, 
Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, 
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South 
Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Togo, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkmenistan, 
Tuvalu,  Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Canada, 
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Hungary, 
Israel, 
Italy,  Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Iceland, 
Ireland, 
18-44315
27/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Poland, 
Portugal, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, 
Romania, San Marino, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United States of America
Abstaining
Tonga
Draft resolution VIII was adopted by 135 votes to 
53, with 1 abstention (resolution 73/170).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
IX is entitled “The right to food”. A recorded vote has 
been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burundi,  Cabo  Verde, 
Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Central  African 
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Democratic  Re-public  of  the 
Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial 
Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Eswatini,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of), 
Italy,  Jamaica, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Ireland, 
Iraq, 
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Is-lands, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thai-land, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Timor-Leste, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
Israel, United States of America
Abstaining
none
Draft resolution IX was adopted by 188 votes to 2, 
with no abstentions (resolution 73/171).
The President (spoke in Spanish): Draft resolution 
X  is  entitled  “Extrajudicial,  summary  or  arbitrary 
executions”.  The  Assembly  has  before  it  two  draft 
amendments, which have been circulated as documents 
A/73/L.57 and A/73/L.58. 
In  accordance  with  article  90  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, the Assembly will take a decision on draft 
amendment A/73/L.57.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
United States on a point of order
Ms.  Korac  (United  States  of  America):  For 
clarification  purposes,  would  it  be  possible  for  the 
beginning of the draft amendment to be read out?
The President (spoke in Spanish): I give the floor 
to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  Draft  amendment 
A/73/L.57 begins with the following:
“Delete  the  fifteenth  preambular  paragraph, 
which  reads  “Acknowledging  that  extrajudicial, 
summary or arbitrary executions may under certain 
28/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
circumstances amount to genocide, crimes against 
humanity ...”.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested on the draft amendment circulated 
as document A/73/L.57.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  China, 
Cuba,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Guyana,  Iraq, 
Libya,  Maldives,  Myanmar,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Russian  Federation,  Saudi  Arabia,  Seychelles, 
South  Sudan,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Yemen, Zimbabwe
Against
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, 
Bangladesh,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cabo Verde, Canada, 
Chad,  Chile,  Colombia,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  El 
Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Gambia, Geor-
gia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, 
Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia,  Liechten-stein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of),  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Namibia, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Niger,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea,  Repub-
lic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San 
Marino,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone,  Singa-
pore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Ukraine,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay, 
Vanuatu, Zambia
the 
Abstaining
Algeria,  Angola,  Barbados,  Bhutan,  Brunei 
Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Comoros,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Guatemala,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia,  Israel, 
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Liberia,  Malaysia,  Mali, 
Mauritius,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Nepal,  Papua 
New  Guinea,  Qatar,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe, Sri Lanka, Togo, Turkey, Uganda, United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  States  of  America,  Viet 
Nam
Draft  amendment  A/73/L.57  was  rejected  by  25 
votes to 100, with 37 abstentions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested on the draft amendment circulated 
as document A/73/L.58.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Bahrain,  Belarus,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  China, 
Cuba,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Egypt,  Eritrea,  Guyana,  Iraq,  Libya,  Myanmar, 
Oman, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, 
South Sudan, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Yemen, 
Zimbabwe
Against
Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, 
Austria,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Cabo  Verde,  Canada,  Chile,  Colombia,  Congo, 
Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia, 
Liberia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malawi,  Maldives,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Namibia,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Serbia, 
Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Zambia
18-44315
29/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Abstaining
Algeria,  Angola,  Bhutan,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia,  Ethiopia,  Guinea,  Haiti, 
India, 
Indonesia,  Israel,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Mali, 
Mauritius,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Nepal, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  Qatar,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  Singapore,  Sri  Lanka,  Suriname, 
Thailand,  Togo,  Turkey,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates, United States of America, Viet Nam
Draft  amendment  A/73/L.58  was  rejected  by  22 
votes to 99, with 35 abstentions.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  will  now 
proceed to take action on draft resolution X, as a whole. 
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Albania, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Canada, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chile,  Colombia, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India, 
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kiribati, 
Latvia, Lebanon, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Maldives,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated 
States  of),  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Palau, Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San 
Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Serbia, Seychelles, 
Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States  of  America,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian Republic of)
Against
none
Abstaining
Belarus, 
Botswana, 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, 
Brunei 
Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon,  Chad, 
China,  Comoros,  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Djibouti,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Gambia,  Ghana, 
Guyana,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of), 
Iraq,  Israel,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libya, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, 
Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Qatar, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal,  Solomon  Islands,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Tajikistan, Togo, Tonga, Uganda, United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uzbekistan, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
(Guyana),  Vice-President, 
Draft  resolution  X,  as  a  whole,  was  adopted 
by  125  votes  to  none,  with  60  abstentions 
(resolution 73/172).
Mr.  Ten-Pow 
the Chair.
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XI  is 
entitled “Promotion and protection of human rights and 
fundamental freedoms, including the rights to peaceful 
assembly and freedom of association”. A recorded vote 
has been requested.
took 
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia, 
Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bangladesh, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Cabo 
Verde,  Canada,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad, 
Chile,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gabon, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, 
30/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, 
Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Maldives, 
Mali,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of),  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco, 
Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Nor-way,  Oman, 
Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Rwanda, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Seychelles, 
Sierra  Leone,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United  States  of  America,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against
none
Abstaining
Algeria,  Bahrain,  Belarus,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  China,  Cuba, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Egypt, Guinea, Indonesia, 
Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Kuwait,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Libya,  Malaysia, 
Myanmar,  Nicaragua,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Russian 
Federation,  Saudi  Arabia,  Singapore,  Sudan, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela 
(Bolivarian Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen
Draft  resolution  XI  was  adopted  by  154  votes  to 
none, with 35 abstentions (resolution 73/173).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XII  is 
entitled  “Terrorism  and  human  rights”.  The  Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft  resolution  XII  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/174).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XIII  is 
entitled “Moratorium on the use of the death penalty”. 
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Israel, 
Ireland, 
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Argentina, 
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State 
of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Canada, 
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, 
Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
Italy,  Kazakhstan, 
Kiribati, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Libya, Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, 
Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Norway, Pakistan, Palau, Panama, Paraguay, 
Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Samoa, San 
Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Serbia, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Tajikistan, 
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of)
Against:
Afghanistan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Belize,  Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
China,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Grenada,  India,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kuwait, 
Maldives, Nauru, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Qatar, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Saudi  Arabia,  Singapore, 
18-44315
31/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, 
United States of America, Yemen, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Belarus,  Cameroon, 
Comoros,  Congo,  Cuba,  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Ghana,  Guinea,  Guyana, 
Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Mauritania, 
Morocco, Myanmar, Nigeria, Philippines, Republic 
of Korea, South Sudan, Thailand, Tonga, Uganda, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia
Draft resolution XIII was adopted by 121 votes to 
35, with 32 abstentions (resolution 73/175).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XIV  is 
entitled  “Freedom  of  religion  or  belief”.  The  Third 
Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take it that 
the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft  resolution  XIV  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/176).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XV  is 
entitled “Human rights in the administration of justice”. 
The Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I 
take it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft resolution XV was adopted (resolution 73/177).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XVI  is 
entitled  “Missing  persons”.  The  Third  Committee 
adopted it without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly 
wishes to do the same?
Draft  resolution  XVI  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/178).
The  Acting  President:  Draft  resolution  XVII  is 
entitled “The right to privacy in the digital age”. The 
Third Committee adopted it without a vote. May I take 
it that the Assembly wishes to do the same?
Draft  resolution  XVII  was  adopted  (resolution 
73/179).
The Acting President: I shall now give the floor to 
delegations wishing to speak in explanation of vote or 
position after the adoption of the resolutions.
Ms. Simpson (United States of America): We are 
pleased  to  maintain  consensus  on  resolution  73/174, 
entitled  “Terrorism  and  human  rights”.  We  take  the 
floor today to fully state our understanding of the text.
We  understand  paragraph  8  of  the  resolution  to 
refer  to  the  importance  of  ensuring  access  to  justice 
and  accountability  in  accordance  with  applicable 
international law. We also understand the reference in 
paragraph  9  to  States  acting  in  accordance  with  their 
obligations  under  international  law  to  mean  that,  if  a 
State carries out the stated actions within its criminal 
justice system, it should do so in a manner consistent 
with  its  applicable  international  obligations;  it  should 
not be understood to suggest the existence of particular 
obligations to implement the actions described.
Nothing 
in 
the 
resolution 
requesting  States 
to  take  certain  actions  to  counter  terrorism  alters 
States’  obligations  under  applicable  international  law, 
including  the  decisions  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
understand  paragraph  13  to  mean  that  States  must 
comply  with  their  international  obligations,  including 
the  non-discrimination  provisions  of  international 
human  rights  treaties  to  which  they  are  party,  as 
applicable, when taking measures to counter terrorism 
and violent extremism.
With respect to paragraph 14, we reject and dissociate 
from it as it is an unfair and thinly veiled attack against 
United States material support law. We reject its overly 
broad  call  on  States  to  ensure  that  counter-terrorism 
legislation  does  not  impede  humanitarian  aid,  even  if 
terrorists  benefit  from  such  activities.  That  could  be 
read as exempting humanitarian activities from counter-
terrorism  legislation  and  other  measures  designed  to 
prevent the provision of material support and resources 
to  terrorist  groups  and  individual  terrorists  for  any 
reason. While we support the role humanitarian actors 
should continue to have in alleviating the suffering of 
those  who  are  displaced  and  otherwise  victimized  by 
terrorism,  we  stress  that  there  is  no  obligation  under 
international law that countries allow the unrestricted 
delivery of humanitarian or other assistance to terrorist 
groups  or  individual  terrorists,  or  that  countries 
allow  the  provision  of  support  to  terrorist  groups  or 
individual terrorists for any purported humanitarian or 
other activities they may pursue. That language has no 
impact upon the binding obligation of Member States to 
prohibit their nationals or those within their territories 
from providing funds or other economic resources for 
the  benefit  of  terrorist  organizations  or  to  individual 
terrorists  for  any  purpose,  even  in  the  absence  of  a 
link  to  a  specific  terrorist  act,  regardless  of  whether 
32/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
or  not  such  support  is  meant  to  further  the  terrorist, 
humanitarian  or  any  other  goals  or  activities  of  a 
terrorist or terrorist organization. It is unfortunate that 
the misleading and damaging language of paragraph 14 
appears in the resolution.
To all those who may seek to rely on such language 
in future, we urge them to understand it as calling on 
States to ensure only that their counter-terrorism efforts 
are implemented appropriately in a manner consistent 
with  their  international  obligations  and  to  use  future 
opportunities to correct that language accordingly. We 
are also concerned about the fact that the call on States 
not  to  hinder  the  work  of  civil  society  organizations 
in  paragraph  28  can  be  similarly  misconstrued.  We 
understand  it  to  mean  only  that  States  must  comply 
with international obligations in that respect.
Furthermore,  we  disassociate  from  paragraph  30, 
given its calls to prevent speech that goes beyond the 
narrow exceptions to freedom of expression permitted 
by our Constitution and article 19 of the International 
Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights.  We  are 
committed to cooperating to counter violent extremist 
propaganda and incitement to violence on the Internet 
and social media. But we believe the new language in 
the paragraph goes too far and could be used to support 
excessive restrictions on speech, in particular online.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 
would  like  to  reiterate  that  we  support  the  overall 
objective  of  resolution  73/172,  entitled  “Extrajudicial 
summary  or  arbitrary  executions”,  the  draft  form  of 
which the Third Committee recommended in its report 
(A/73/589/Add.2).  We  abstained  in  the  voting  on  the 
draft resolution because some of its provisions address 
contentious  issues,  concepts  and  ideas  that  have  no 
international legal basis or consensus.
In that regard, I refer to concepts concerning sexual 
orientation and sexual identity that are not included in 
any international human rights treaty. That contradicts 
international  rules  and  benchmarks  on  human  rights 
that enjoy unanimity, and contradicts as well the basic 
principles that underpin many societies.
As  members  know,  the  resolution  also  contains 
references to the International Criminal Court, which 
we asked members to vote against.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
sub-item (b) of agenda item 74.
(c) Human rights situations and reports of special 
rapporteurs and representatives
Report of the Third Committee (A/73/589/
Add.3)
Draft amendment (A/73/L.60)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  before 
it  five  draft  resolutions  recommended  by  the  Third 
Committee in paragraph 88 of its report. In connection 
with draft resolution I, the General Assembly has before 
it a draft amendment circulated in document A/73/L.60.
Before proceeding, I should like to inform members 
that  action  on  draft  resolution  III,  entitled  “The 
situation of human rights in the Autonomous Republic 
of  Crimea  and  the  city  of  Sevastopol  (Ukraine)”,  and 
draft  resolution  V,  entitled  “The  situation  of  human 
rights in Myanmar”, is postponed to a later date to allow 
time for a review of its programme budget implications 
by the Fifth Committee. The Assembly will take action 
on  draft  resolutions  III  and  V  as  soon  as  the  reports 
of  the  Fifth  Committee  on  their  programme  budget 
implications are available.
I shall now give the floor to delegations wishing to 
speak in explanation of vote or position.
Mr.  Kim  Song  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea):  My  delegation  strongly  and  totally  rejects 
draft resolution I, as contained in document A/73/589/
Add.3  and  entitled  “Situation  of  human  rights  in  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea”,  which  was 
submitted by the European Union and the Japan. The 
draft resolution has nothing to do with genuine human 
rights, as it is the product of a political plot by hostile 
forces that try to disgrace the image of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and overthrow its political 
and  social  system.  As  we  have  made  clear  on  several 
occasions,  the  human  rights  issues  mentioned  in  the 
draft  resolution  have  never  existed  and  cannot  be 
allowed to exist in my country, where we greatly value 
the dignity and rights of the human being.
With regard to the material contained in the draft 
resolution, those despicable false words were fabricated 
by  a  handful  of  defectors  who  escaped  after  having 
committed crimes in my country to sustain their dirty 
lives. Therefore, my delegation does not feel any need 
to even vote on the draft resolution, which is consistent 
with the lying and the plots and distorts the real human 
rights situation in the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea.
18-44315
33/35
A/73/PV.55 
17/12/2018
My  delegation  expresses  its  deep  concern  and 
surprise about the fact that the criminal State of Japan, 
which  in  the  past  committed  class-A  crimes  against 
humanity  —  such  as  kidnapping,  forced  enlistment 
and  sexual  slavery  —  is  talking  about  human  rights 
issues  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea, 
instead of assuming responsibility for its dirty human 
rights  record  and  officially  apologizing  and  offering 
compensation to victims. Furthermore, we will not look 
on idly at the fact that the European Union and Japan 
are  provoking  confrontation  by  submitting  the  draft 
resolution  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea by going against the prevailing trend on the 
Korean  peninsula,  at  a  time  when  the  international 
community  is  making  diplomatic  efforts  to  achieve  a 
peaceful  environment  to  promote  our  people’s  well-
being.
Although 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  remains  ready  to  attach  great  importance 
to  dialogue  and  cooperation  for  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights, it will strongly respond to 
put an end to provocative action, such as the adoption 
of  the  anti-Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
human  rights  draft  resolution  under  the  pretext  of 
non-existent  human  rights  issues.  My  delegation  will 
neither  recognize  nor  accept  the  forcibly  railroaded 
anti-Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  human 
rights draft resolution. We also never feel any need to 
call for a vote.
In conclusion, my delegation categorically rejects all 
the draft resolutions against the Russian Federation, the 
Islamic Republic of Iran and the Syrian Arab Republic, 
based on our principled position against politicization, 
selectivity and double standards on human rights.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  My  delegation  renews  its  full  rejection  of 
draft  resolution  IV,  entitled  “The  situation  of  human 
rights in the Syrian Arab Republic”, in both form and 
content. Procedurally, we stress that the key delegation 
that  submitted  the  draft  resolution,  namely,  the  Saudi 
delegation,  has  no  legal  or  ethical  grounds  to  submit 
any  draft  resolution  that  deals  with  the  situation  of 
human rights anywhere in the world.
We  confidently  and  sincerely  believe  that  it  is 
necessary for Member States to reflect on the shameful 
situation that we are currently experiencing, especially 
when  we  see  that  the  representatives  of  the  Kingdom 
of  Saudi  Arabia  —  the  most  dangerous  and  violent 
religious  dictatorship  in  the  world  —  are  submitting 
draft resolutions on the human rights situation in Syria, 
which preceded the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia by many 
light years in promoting and protecting human rights.
On  its  content,  my  country  in  principle  opposes 
the politicization of this issue and the fact that certain 
permanent  Member  States  resort  to  submitting  draft 
resolutions 
targeting  specific  States  for  political 
reasons, which everyone is aware of, especially given 
that  the  draft  resolution  is  imbalanced  and  aims  to 
distort  facts  and  tarnish  the  image  of  my  country’s 
Government and its legitimate institutions.
That is a reflection of the position of the Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia and its destructive policies towards my 
country,  which  is  based  on  its  military  and  political 
investments  in  Wahhabi  extremist  terrorism  with 
a  view  to  spreading  chaos,  toppling  the  legitimate 
Government,  undermining  the  political  process  and 
negatively  impacting  it,  in  violation  of  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  that  underscore  that  the 
political process is exclusively Syrian-owned, without 
any foreign intervention.
The  royal  family  rules  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia with a sword, which is evident on the Kingdom’s 
flag,  using  the  ascendency  of  religion  while  Islam 
has  nothing  to  do  with  that.  The  royal  family  strives 
to use the surplus in oil revenues to exercise political 
pressure  and  achieve  financial  polarization  within 
the  Organization.  It  seeks  to  destroy  the  principles 
and  well-established  rules  of  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations, as well as undermine the credibility, sincerity 
and balance of the Organization.
More clearly, the representatives of the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia want members of the Assembly today to 
become accomplices and bear false witness to a draft 
resolution that calls for measures and well-established 
traditions in Syria that have been applied for decades 
and  centuries,  namely,  holding  elections,  possessing 
a  Constitution  and  electing  a  Parliament,  while  also 
giving  a  role  to  women,  protecting  journalists  and 
ensuring  the  freedom  of  press.  They  are  demanding 
all  that  while  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  since  its 
establishment until present, has not had a parliament, 
a constitution or elections. Rather, it oppresses citizens 
and persecutes women, religious and ethnic minorities 
and expatriates. Recently, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
discovered a new way to enjoy human rights, which was 
34/35 
18-44315
17/12/2018 
A/73/PV.55
to  use  its  diplomatic  offices  to  kill  and  dismember  a 
dissident Saudi journalist who opposed the royal family.
That raises the following question: Where is Saudi 
Arabia  on  implementing  those  rightful  demands  as 
its  people  languish  under  the  yoke  of  sheikhdoms, 
which  have  nothing  to  do  with  either  parliaments 
or  constitutions?  Those  sheikhdoms  are  ashamed 
of  women  in  their  communities,  as  was  the  case  in 
the  pre-Islamic  era  when  the  population  of  those 
sheikhdoms used to bury baby girls alive because they 
were ashamed of them.
We  are  not  naïve,  and  we  know  fully  well  that 
the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  has 
always been a tool in the hands of those who support 
terrorism  in  my  country,  Syria.  But  whoever  pushed 
the Saudi delegation to submit that draft resolution is 
a  hypocrite  and  a  liar.  For  eight  years,  the  Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia has been at the forefront of targeting 
stability and security in my country, Syria, within the 
General Assembly by submitting a draft resolution on 
the human rights situation and democracy in Syria.
We  urge  the  majority  of  the  States  Members  of 
the Organization to not engage in such a farce, which 
history will prove is one of the setbacks of the United 
Nations. How could it not be so when we are witnessing 
the  representatives  of  a  State  beheading  people  in  its 
streets  under  the  pretext  of  religion  while  calling  for 
democracy in a State with a well-established tradition 
and history of thousands of years, namely, Syria?
Speaking  of  hypocrisy  and  lying,  many  of  the 
countries that co-sponsored the draft resolution — and 
here we single out those Governments that are members 
of  the  so-called  global  coalition  —  also  partook  in 
the  perpetration  of  the  most  abominable  crimes  that 
violated human rights in Syria when they engaged in the 
illegitimate military operations under the leadership of 
the United States of America and destroyed the city of 
Raqqa, killing thousands of its population. To date, their 
bodies are still buried under the rubble of the city. They 
also participated in destroying bridges, infrastructure, 
gas  stations,  energy  plants,  agricultural  land  and 
factories, as well as public and private properties, in the 
Syrian Arab Republic. In addition, they pillaged Syrian 
artefacts and cultural heritage and traded it, under the 
false pretext of combating Da’esh.
The adoption of this Saudi draft resolution will set 
a  serious  precedent  that  will  be  used  on  any  Member 
State  when  Governments  that  practice  politicization 
and  financial  polarization  target  those  who  oppose 
their policies, hegemony and influence.
Again, I call on those present to be cautious as to the 
abnormal practices that some Member States are using 
to  politicize  human  rights  mechanisms  and  leverage 
them as pressure on some Member States. The Syrian 
Arab  Republic  considers  voting  in  favour  of  this  so-
called Saudi draft resolution to be an act of aggression 
against Syria. We will spare no effort to exercise our 
sovereign national rights and take all measures against 
the co-sponsors and those who vote in favour of it, so 
as to isolate them from any contribution or role in the 
Syrian-owned  political  process.  Furthermore,  we  will 
ensure their exclusion from any reconstruction efforts.
that 
have  to  appease  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  for 
political reasons or financial considerations, but those 
Governments should do so either by being silent with 
regard to the Kingdom’s record, which is replete with 
human rights violations, or situations that are related to 
them, and not at the expense of my country, Syria, and 
the  fate  and  freely  expressed  independent  aspirations 
of its people. Again, my country’s delegation requests 
a  recorded  vote  on  this  draft  resolution,  and  urges 
Member States to vote against it.
there  are  Governments 
We  believe 
that 
In conclusion, I congratulate Saudi Arabia and the 
other Arab States that co-sponsored this draft resolution 
on the inclusion of Israel on the list of co-sponsors. That 
demonstrates the nature and motives of Saudi Arabia, 
while the Saudi-Israeli coalition exposes the nature of 
such a draft resolution.
The Acting President: I thank the interpreters for 
their  forbearance.  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in 
explanation of vote for this meeting. We shall hear the 
remaining speakers at 3 p.m. here in the Hall, followed 
by consideration of the remaining reports of the Third 
Committee. The Assembly will then consider sub-item 
(b) of agenda items 3, sub-item (a) of agenda item 34 
and sub-item (b) of agenda item 116.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
18-44315
35/35
