United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
13th plenary meeting
Friday, 28 September 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.13
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Ke (Cambodia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.35 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Timothy S. Harris, Prime 
Minister and Minister for Sustainable 
Development, National Security, People 
Empowerment and Constituency Empowerment 
of Saint Kitts and Nevis
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Sustainable  Development,  National  Security,  People 
Empowerment  and  Constituency  Empowerment  of 
Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Mr.  Timothy  S.  Harris,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Sustainable  Development,  National 
Security,  People  Empowerment  and  Constituency 
Empowerment  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Timothy  S. 
Harris,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Sustainable 
Development, National Security, People Empowerment 
and  Constituency  Empowerment  of  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Harris  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  It  is  my 
privilege and honour once again to address the General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Federation  of  Saint  Kitts 
and Nevis. At the outset, allow me to congratulate the 
President on her election to lead this body at this most 
significant time and as the first woman to assume the 
post from the Group of Latin American and Caribbean 
States.  I  assure  her  of  my  country’s  fullest  support 
during her tenure.
in 
the 
that 
it  was  critical 
During  the  opening  days  of  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  we  paid  tribute  to  the  late  former 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  whom  we  remember 
dearly,  and  what  he  said  about  the  United  Nations, 
namely, 
international 
community’s efforts to solve the wide range of global 
problems.  Multilateralism,  with  the  United  Nations 
system  at  its  fulcrum,  has  long  informed  our  global 
engagements. The United Nations has been, is and will 
continue  to  be  critical  to  global  peace,  progress  and 
prosperity. That is why there is a need to move urgently 
to reform the United Nations, making it more responsive 
to  the  needs  and  concerns  of  all,  in  particular  small 
island developing States (SIDS).
The  United  Nations  has  become  too  preoccupied 
with  summitry,  that  is,  with  specialized  high-level 
meetings  and  declarations,  and 
less  focused  on 
delivery.  The  lack  of  cooperation  among  Member 
States  stymies  the  forward  march  of  humankind. 
A  reformed  United  Nations  must  become  a  body  of 
greater action and fewer words. We need urgent action 
on climate change, non-communicable diseases, global 
cooperation, peace, prosperity and the reordering of the 
international  financial  system.  Guided  by  this  year’s 
theme,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30110 (E)
*1830110*

A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
people:  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  my 
delegation  is  of  the  view  that  those  ideas  can  enable 
us  to  address  the  unfairness  and  inequity  of  the 
international development order, and we urge a new and 
more  inclusive  paradigm  of  equitable  and  sustainable 
development.
Although it is the smallest country in the western 
hemisphere,  my  country  has  always  had  its  own 
goals, since long before the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  were 
announced.  More  than  a  week  ago,  we  celebrated  35 
years  of  independence.  We  have  made  significant 
progress  towards  alleviating  poverty,  providing  free 
primary  and  secondary  education,  ensuring  access  to 
affordable  health  care  and  enhancing  the  standard  of 
living for our citizens and residents.
All those gains could be erased by the phenomenon 
of  climate  change.  The  damage  sustained  last  year 
by  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States 
subregion  as  a  result  of  Hurricanes  Irma  and  Maria 
was unimaginable. The high-level pledging conference 
in  the  aftermath  of  those  hurricanes  was  an  attempt 
to  chart  the  way  forward  towards  creating  resilience 
and  better  recovery.  We  ask  that  Member  States  with 
commitments  still  outstanding  fulfil  them  as  soon 
as  practicable.  We  applaud  those  countries  that  have 
redeemed  their  pledges.  There  is  still  a  great  deal  to 
be  done  to  restore  affected  Member  States,  but  that 
requires strong, meaningful and enduring international 
partnerships.
We  continue  to  highlight,  on  the  one  hand,  our 
inherent  vulnerabilities 
to  natural  disasters  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  an  unflinching  determination  to 
maintain  a  sustainable  society.  Our  responsibility  is 
clear.  Individually  and  collectively,  we  must  commit 
to  reducing  the  amount  of  harmful  materials  that 
we  emit  into  the  environment.  It  is  a  matter  of  great 
concern that nations such as my own continue to pay 
dearly for a problem that we did not create. Our people 
see  the  impact  of  climate  change  on  their  lives  and 
livelihoods. Climate change is largely the consequence 
of  the  actions  of  the  more  developed  countries,  their 
carbon emissions and harmful lifestyles, yet SIDS pay 
an unfair price — a price so high that, for many of us, 
climate change presents an existential threat.
In  that  connection,  how  will  the  United  Nations 
assist  our  region  with  the  growing  prevalence  of  the 
sargassum  seaweed  that  has  adversely  impacted  the 
Caribbean  area  and  is  thought  to  be  a  noxious  side 
effect  of  global  warming?  Sargassum  affects  our 
marine environment, in particular our coastal fisheries, 
and  has  affected  the  revenues  of  the  fisherfolk  in  the 
region.  Hotels,  beaches  and  other  tourism-related 
activities  have  also  been  severely  impacted.  It  is 
my  fervent  hope  that  my  plea  today  for  international 
intervention will bring some relief to the people of our 
region.  We  must  hold  countries  accountable  for  the 
environmental  degradation  that  they  cause  not  only 
in their own jurisdictions but also in other States. The 
United Nations system presents the best vehicle to do 
that.
We  welcome  the  funding  mechanisms  established 
to  assist  countries,  particularly  highly  vulnerable 
SIDS. However, the process must be transparent, easily 
accessible  and,  most  importantly,  the  commitments 
of  donor  countries  must  bear  fruit.  That  said,  the 
international  community  cannot  on  the  one  hand 
claim  to  be  helping  SIDS,  while  at  the  same  time 
classifying  us  as  middle-  and  high-income  countries 
based on archaic financial models that ultimately deny 
access to critical developmental assistance and hinder 
investment  financing.  We  reiterate  our  calls  for  the 
international  community  to  address  with  urgency  the 
sterile measure of per capita income now employed. It is 
equally important to address the issues of disaster-risk 
insurance and recognition of the unique vulnerabilities 
of  small  States.  My  country  remains  committed  to 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  the  SIDS 
Accelerated Modalities of Action Pathway.
relationships.  That 
The developmental efforts of small States are also 
being  thwarted  by  an  unfair  financial  architecture, 
which  includes  the  threat  of  de-risking  and  the  loss 
of  correspondent  banking 
is 
compounded by the very discriminatory and irrational 
blacklisting of countries that are forced to divert scarce 
resources to address the onerous and arbitrary demands 
of  the  European  Union’s  Code  of  Conduct  Group  for 
business  taxation and  other  entities  created  by  large, 
highly  developed  countries.  It  is  completely  unfair  to 
subject  some  countries  to  such  evaluation  and  ever-
fluctuating standards, while others are exempt.
The  threats  to  the  survival  of  small  States  are 
real. I therefore call on this body to bring the plight of 
small States like Saint Kitts and Nevis to the forefront 
of  international  discourse  and  to  bring  an  end  to  the 
discriminatory policies that I have mentioned. At great 
2/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
cost,  my  country  and  other  small  States  seek  to  rise 
to  the  challenges  posed  by  the  unfair  international 
financial  architecture.  However,  the  frequency  and 
arbitrariness  of 
those  unilateral  demands  derail 
essential development efforts in small States. I submit 
to this body that we deserve and have a right to expect 
fairness, transparency and consistency in the treatment 
of all States. A clear, rules-based financial system that 
applies to all States must be our collective goal.
My  Government  is  mindful  that  without  peace, 
there can be no shared prosperity. We have aggressively 
confronted the problem of crime and violence on several 
fronts.  We  condemn  all  acts  of  violence  and  support 
efforts  to  maintain  peace.  My  Government  will  use 
every  resource  available  to  achieve  a  stable,  peaceful 
and equitable society, which is what our people expect 
and certainly deserve. Saint Kitts and Nevis supports 
the  calls  for  diplomacy  aimed  at  addressing  the 
conflicts around the world and is particularly heartened 
by the welcome dialogue on the Korean peninsula. The 
Caribbean is a zone of peace, and our clear philosophy 
is  to  promote  peace,  friendship  and  dialogue  while 
avoiding conflict with other territories. In that regard, 
a denuclearized world is a most desirable objective for 
all humankind.
Throughout  the  Caribbean,  we  suffer  from  an 
increase in crime connected to the trade in small arms, 
light weapons and drugs. Those weapons flow into the 
Caribbean,  where  they  are  not  manufactured,  and  are 
linked to an insatiable drug appetite in the West. It is 
beyond  our  power  to  unilaterally  control  the  flow  of 
guns  into  the  region  or  the  addiction  that  drives  the 
dangerous  global  drug  trade.  We  seek  the  assistance 
of  the  international  community  as  we  work  tirelessly 
to  address  that  scourge.  My  country  remains  fully 
committed  to  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  Our  increasing 
internal  budget  allocations  are  an  indication  of  our 
commitment to the maintenance of safety and security.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  delighted  that  this 
week,  this  body  joined  in  committing  to  scaling  up 
multi-stakeholder  and  multisectoral  responses  aimed 
at  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs),  in  the  context  of  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development.  Our  region  remains 
encumbered by the unfortunate burden that the NCDs 
have placed on our society and economy. The statistics 
are stark and startling. Eight of every 10 deaths in the 
Caribbean  are  attributable  to  NCDs,  40  per  cent  of 
which are premature and 70 per cent of that number are 
preventable. Hypertension is our leading risk factor for 
death.  The  Caribbean  region’s  diabetes  rate  is  double 
the  global  rate.  We  are  facing  an  NCD crisis  in  our 
region. In that regard, we applaud the launch earlier this 
week of the Defeat-NCD Partnership, and the Caribbean 
Community  and  the  Caribbean  Public  Health  Agency 
will provide the fullest support to that new partnership.
We endorse a holistic approach to health, and I am 
happy to report that we have moved into high gear to 
make universal health coverage, which is an essential 
component  of  global  health,  a  reality  for  all  citizens 
in Saint Kitts and Nevis. However, I must remind the 
Assembly that NCDs and climate change are two sides 
of the same coin. They are symptoms of the failure of 
the current development paradigm.
My  Government  believes  in  making  an  equitable 
society a reality for all citizens in Saint Kitts and Nevis. 
In keeping with our commitment to transform our world 
through the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
we have endeavoured to create an equitable pathway by 
improving the standard of living of the most vulnerable 
so that they can become self-sufficient and productive 
citizens and residents.
I  cannot  address 
this  great  body  without 
recognizing our dear friend, Taiwan. My Government 
views  the  United  Nations  as  an organization  for  all 
people,  including  the  people  of  Taiwan.  We  strongly 
believe  that  Taiwan  has  an  important  and  continuing 
role to play in international development strategies, as 
it has achieved great success in technology, agriculture, 
health and renewable energy. We advocate that Taiwan 
be  given  space  to  add  to  the  dialogue,  progress  and 
well-being of the global community. We also continue 
to voice our support for our Caribbean sister, Cuba, and 
call  for  the  normalization  of  relations  between  Cuba 
and the United States of America in order to alleviate 
the  real  suffering  caused  to  the  Cuban  people  by  the 
policy  of  exclusion.  My  country  is  conscious  of  the 
current difficulties in Venezuela. Venezuela has been a 
very good friend to the Caribbean, and Saint Kitts and 
Nevis continues to call for peaceful dialogue aimed at 
resolving the issues in that country, with due regard to 
the rule of law and the democratic ideals that we hold 
dear.
As I conclude, I must remind the Assembly that our 
people want action. They want results. We need to see 
all global leaders come together to create and maintain 
stability,  equality  and  peace  in  our  countries  so  that 
18-30110
3/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
our collective contributions can prevent and avoid war 
and violence, end the proliferation of nuclear weapons, 
reduce  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  create  a  level 
playing field, enabling small States to thrive. May we 
be always mindful and proactive so as to ensure that no 
country is left behind in the pursuit and achievement of 
the 2030 Agenda.
It  is  our  shared  responsibility  to  create  the  best 
opportunities and fulfil the expectations of our current 
and  future  generations.  I  am  convinced  that  if  we 
continue  to  work  steadfastly,  while  always  remaining 
vigilant and focused on the overarching goals, we will 
contribute  to  a  more  relevant,  fair,  productive  and 
meaningful United Nations and, by extension, a better 
world for all our peoples.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister 
for  Sustainable  Development,  National 
Security,  People  Empowerment  and  Constituency 
Empowerment of Saint Kitts and Nevis for the statement 
he has just made.
Mr.  Timothy  S.  Harris,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Sustainable  Development,  National 
Security,  People  Empowerment  and  Constituency 
Empowerment  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Hubert Alexander Minnis, 
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of the 
Bahamas
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth 
of the Bahamas.
Mr.  Hubert  Alexander  Minnis,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, was escorted 
to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hubert  Alexander 
Minnis,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Minnis (Bahamas): I congratulate the President 
on her election to the presidency of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  wish  to  assure  her  and 
members of the Assembly of my delegation’s support. 
I commend Secretary-General António Guterres, who 
continues to guide the Organization through a process 
of reform that is vital for the continued relevance of our 
Organization. I also pay tribute to the late Kofi Annan 
for  the  immense  contribution  he  made  to  the  United 
Nations and the global community.
This year, as we mark the 100th anniversary of the 
end of the First World War, it is fitting that the theme for 
this seventy-third session is “Making the United Nations 
relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies”. One of the painful lessons learned from the 
two world wars was the necessity for nations to work 
together to minimize conflicts and promote economic 
and  social  development.  The  relevance  of  the  United 
Nations  to  the  global  community  is  without  question. 
That is not to say that we ought not to strive to achieve 
more — it is imperative that we do.
As nations, we must intensify our deliberations and 
commitments  to  addressing  climate  change.  Climate 
change  is  a  clear  and  present  danger  to  us  all,  but  in 
particular to low-lying coastal nations like the Bahamas. 
We  see  that  in  the  rising  sea  levels,  the  loss  of  coral 
reefs and the increased volume of acid in our oceans, 
as  well  as  the  more  severe  and  frequent  hurricanes 
and typhoons. This time last year, the Bahamas, along 
with  many  countries  in  the  Caribbean  and  parts  of 
the  United  States  of  America,  faced  the  onslaught  of 
hurricanes of category 4 or higher. As Hurricane Irma
hurtled  towards  the  Bahamas,  my  Government  took 
the  difficult  decision  to  evacuate  residents  from  the 
southern islands in order to prevent injury and the loss 
of life. We fortunately escaped without loss of life, but 
our southern neighbours were not as fortunate. As such, 
I  fully  support  the  Secretary-General’s  plan  to  call  a 
climate summit next September to mobilize action and 
financial support.
As  part  of  such  discussions,  we  must  dedicate 
considerably more energy and resources to building the 
resilience  and  sustainability  of  our  island  and  coastal 
nations. Like our neighbours, the Bahamas is trying to 
rebuild its islands. However, the accumulated damage 
of  a  series  of  major  hurricanes  has  made  that  very 
difficult. As an archipelago of many islands stretching 
approximately  600  miles  from  north  to  south,  we  are 
required  to  replicate  infrastructure  many  times  over 
with already limited resources.
While the delivery of humanitarian aid is essential, 
it is equally important to focus on prevention and the 
strengthening of capacity-building. Such a focus must 
be grounded in a comprehensive approach to sustainable 
4/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
development  that  addresses,  in  an  integrated  manner, 
the  range  of  issues  that  are  critical  to  the  Bahamas, 
from  disaster-risk  reduction  to  the  sustainable  use  of 
the  world’s  seas  and  oceans,  in  order  to  ensure  their 
viability  for  generations  to  come.  Tourism  is  the 
world’s largest industry. It is also the lifeblood of the 
Bahamian  economy.  Millions  of  tourists  travel  to  the 
Bahamas  annually  because  of  our  beautiful  turquoise 
waters  and  biodiversity.  In  that  context,  the  Bahamas 
has committed to banning single-use plastics by 2020.
The  Bahamas  looks  forward  to  the  successful 
outcomes of the review of the Small Island Developing 
States  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  Pathway,  the 
international framework that seeks to advance those and 
other sustainable development priorities for small island 
developing States. The Bahamas will also advocate for a 
strong outcome at the intergovernmental conference on 
an international, legally binding instrument under the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction.
Earlier this week, I participated in the Bloomberg 
round  table  on  building  resilient  economies  and 
preserving marine ecosystems in coastal Commonwealth 
nations.  I  commend  such  dialogues.  However,  I  must 
stress that the Bahamas and our neighbours are being 
punished twice for circumstances that are not of our own 
making. It is not our island nations that are primarily 
responsible  for  the  climate  change  that  has  resulted 
in the recent scourges of hurricanes and other natural 
disasters  that  ravage  our  islands.  However,  when  we 
respond to national needs by borrowing internationally, 
seeking  to  restore  basic  human  infrastructure,  our 
debt  to  gross  domestic  product  ratio  rises,  risking 
the possibility of a rating downgrade. That limits our 
ability  to  provide  for  ourselves,  but  we  are  burdened 
with a price tag too heavy to be borne.
A relevant United Nations should urgently facilitate 
a  meaningful  dialogue  on  the  international  stage  to 
establish a workable solution. Furthermore, the adverse 
impact  of  global  financial  inequity  is  seen  in  the  use 
of the distorted matrix of the per capita gross domestic 
product as a measure of national wealth and viability. 
That is done without due regard being given to a country’s 
vulnerabilities and the weight that should be accorded 
to  local  circumstances.  We  remain  concerned  and 
disappointed that the application of that matrix causes 
the  Bahamas  to  be  assessed  as  being  economically 
stronger than the threshold level for contributions from 
international financial organizations and for receiving 
grants  and  international  assistance  when  disasters 
strike.  The  United  Nations  must  devote  greater  focus 
and action to that inequitable issue.
the 
We  also  reaffirm  our  support  for  Cuba’s  ability 
to  access  resources  for  development  to  rebuild  after 
disasters.  Similarly,  notwithstanding 
strong 
and  unwavering  commitment  to  the  integrity  of  our 
financial-services  industry,  the  Bahamas,  like  other 
jurisdictions, is fighting an uphill battle to avoid being 
blacklisted  as  a  non-cooperative  jurisdiction  for  tax 
purposes. The goalposts for cooperation are constantly 
being moved. They are being inequitably applied with 
unfair advantages to some and disadvantages to others. 
The  Bahamas  remains  committed  to  international 
tax  transparency  and  cooperation,  the  exchange  of 
information and international regulatory standards, as 
well as to conducting business in a fair, transparent and 
competitive manner.
The  Bahamas 
to 
provide  greater  opportunities  to  our  disadvantaged 
revitalization,  economic 
urban  centres 
empowerment  and  poverty-alleviation 
initiatives. 
Those  initiatives  have  been  designed  to  be  consistent 
with  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  My 
Government is committed to achieving the SDGs and 
will continue to work with the United Nations and our 
other international partners and domestic stakeholders 
towards their implementation.
comprehensively 
seeks 
through 
is  dedicated 
The  Bahamas 
to  serving  as  a 
productive  presence  and  committed  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  International  Maritime  Organization. 
We  have  presented  our  candidature  for  re-election  in 
category C in the 2019 elections. The Bahamas intends 
to continue its efforts to make positive and innovative 
contributions towards ensuring the safety and security 
of shipping and the prevention of marine pollution by 
maritime vessels.
The Bahamas remains committed to the protection 
and  promotion  of  human  rights  and  gender  equality. 
The geographical location of the Bahamas has made us 
particularly  vulnerable  to  illegal  migration.  We  have 
been embattled by that problem for decades. However, 
we  are  firmly  resolved  to  fight  illegal  migration  and 
to  do  so  in  a  manner  that  prioritizes  the  safety  and 
security  of  the  Bahamas,  while  adhering  to  human 
rights  principles.  The  Bahamas  is  committed  to  the 
use  of  information  communication  technology  to 
18-30110
5/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
support  development.  We  have  offered  ourselves  as 
the smart choice with our candidature for the Council 
of 
International  Telecommunication  Union. 
The  Bahamas  has  been  endorsed  by  our  Caribbean 
Community neighbours.
the 
The  world  continues  to  make  progress  in  myriad 
areas  of  economic,  political  and  social  development. 
But  progress  requires  the  eternal  vigilance  of  each 
generation,  a  recommitment  to  upholding  the  dignity 
and equality of all people and unrelenting international 
cooperation. I wish to reaffirm the commitment of the 
Bahamas to the principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  the  Bahamas  for  the  statement  he 
has just made.
Mr.  Hubert  Alexander  Minnis,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, was escorted 
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Thomas Motsoahae Thabane, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Lesotho.
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcome  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae 
Thabane, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Thabane  (Lesotho):  Allow  me  at  the  outset 
to  sincerely  congratulate  the  President  on  her  well-
deserved  election  as  the  fourth  woman  to  ascend  to 
the  highest  seat  at  the  United  Nations.  Although  we 
are happy about her election, we can certainly take no 
pride in our own record as leaders. Out of 73 Presidents 
of  General  Assembly  sessions  to  date,  only  four  have 
been  women.  Nevertheless,  all  is  not  lost.  We  must 
resolve to walk the talk and ensure that women get the 
same opportunities as men, in line with the spirit of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
I  assure  the  President  of  my  delegation’s  full 
support.  Her  impeccable  credentials  and  experience 
spanning  more  than  two  decades  in  the  multilateral 
setting assure us of a successful seventy-third session. It 
would be remiss of me not to commend her predecessor, 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  for  his  noteworthy  leadership 
during  the  previous  session.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/73/1), which outlines the state of our 
United Nations.
World  history  has  been  replete,  since 
time 
immemorial, with periods when peace was lacking. It 
speaks of conflict among brothers and sisters — wars 
between  and  within  nations.  Terrorism  and  violence 
have disrupted and displaced families, while economic 
devastation has ruined countless lives. Natural disasters 
such  as  earthquakes,  floods  and  tornadoes  caused  by 
climate  change  have  taken  their  toll  on  humankind. 
Injustice continues to permeate countries, and societies 
are left devoid of hope for a prosperous, free, peaceful 
and just world. As new wars and civil unrest seem to 
be flaring up every week, our people look to us as their 
leaders for solutions, and they yearn for help from the 
United Nations.
It is in that context that we welcome the theme for 
this session — “Making the United Nations relevant to 
all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities 
for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”. The 
theme speaks to the very principles underpinning the 
formation  of  the  Organization.  The  Charter  of  the 
United Nations puts people at the centre of the United 
Nations with the following words in its Preamble: “We 
the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations”.  The  big  question 
today  is:  have  we  put  the  people  at  the  centre  of  our 
efforts as an Organization for more than seven decades?
As  the  session  of  51  representatives  who  came 
from  across  the  world  to  adopt  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations in 1945 was drawing to a close, the then 
President of the United States, Harry Truman, said:
“The Charter of the United Nations which you have 
just signed is a solid structure upon which we can 
build a better world. ... Between the victory in Europe 
and the final victory, in this most destructive of all 
wars,  you  have  won  a  victory  against  war  itself. 
...  With  this  Charter  the  world  can  begin  to  look 
forward to the time when all worthy human beings 
may be permitted to live decently as free people.” 
(Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on 
International Organization, final plenary session, 
San Francisco, 1945)
6/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
For the past 73 years now, we have been standing at 
this rostrum making commitments and inspiring hope 
among the citizens of the world. However, our rhetoric 
has not been matched with action. Our lack of fidelity 
to  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  remains  a 
concern.  Seven  decades  on,  we  are  still  embroiled  in 
vicious  conflict  and  violence.  The  world  envisioned 
by  our  forebears,  where  “worthy  human  beings  may 
be  permitted  to  live  decently  as  free  people”  (ibid.), 
continues  to  elude  us.  The  multilateral  system  seems 
to  provide  no  sustainable  solution  to  the  multifaceted 
challenges that confront our world, while unilateralism 
is on the rise. Those challenges put to the test the trust 
that humanity has put in the United Nations. Their hope 
that future generations will be saved from the scourge 
of war, which, as stated in the Preamble to the Charter, 
has  twice  in  our  lifetime  brought  untold  sorrow  to 
mankind, is further receding from sight.
The  above  scenario  is  a  reality.  Even  so,  the 
centrality and relevance of the United Nations cannot 
be  challenged.  The  world  would  not  have  been  the 
same  without  the  United  Nations.  Imperfect  as  it  is, 
its  positive  impact  on  the  lives  of  countless  people  is 
a fact that cannot be denied. From feeding more than 
104 million people in over 80 countries every year to 
assisting  millions  of  refugees  and  protecting  women 
and children, fighting against poverty, HIV and AIDS, 
and  restoring  calm  through  peacekeeping  initiatives, 
the United Nations has undoubtedly made a difference 
in the lives of global citizens.
When  addressing  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second session (see A/72/PV.17), I did so with 
a heavy heart, as there was a dark cloud of instability 
and insecurity hovering over my country. But today, I 
stand  before  the  Assembly  to  attest  to  the  difference 
that the United Nations can make in people’s lives. With 
the  help  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Southern  African 
Development Community, the African Union and other 
development partners, we are on the path to changing 
the  trajectory  of  a  vicious  circle  of  instability  and 
volatile insecurity in Lesotho. The Kingdom of Lesotho 
is now embarking on a comprehensive national reform 
agenda that will culminate in the calibration of pivotal 
elements  of  Government,  and  thus  achieve  the  tenets 
of  the  National  Vision  2020.  Our  shared  commitment 
as  a  nation  to  transforming  our  mountain  kingdom 
into  a  just,  prosperous  and  stable  country,  marked  by 
effective  and  people-focused  institutions,  national 
unity of purpose, the rule of law, good governance and 
human rights, will certainly be attained.
Our  resolve  to  build  a  safe,  stable  and  secure 
country is motivated  by the fact that peace and security 
are preconditions for development. We are determined 
to  take  charge  of  our  socioeconomic  transformation 
as  a  country,  in  line  with  the  African  Union  Agenda 
2063,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  —  premised  upon  the 
principle  of  inclusivity  and  leaving  no  one  behind. 
We  note,  however,  the  important  role  that  financing 
plays  in  any  attempt  to  achieve  the  goals  enshrined 
in  both  Agenda  2063  and  the  2030  Agenda.  While 
we  acknowledge  that  official  development  assistance 
remains  a  catalyst  for  development,  we  also  advocate 
for  robust  domestic  resource  mobilization.  We  are 
determined to combat illicit financial flows, strengthen 
tax administration and harness remittances.
In line with our national priorities, we are taking 
substantive steps towards providing an appropriate space 
for private-sector investment and entrepreneurship as a 
complement  to  public  investments.  An  industrial  hub 
has been launched in the northern region. When fully 
operational,  it  will  create  job  opportunities  for  more 
than 14,000 people. Private property investors will also 
be invited to build factory shells there.
We  also  cannot  ignore  the  disturbing  issue  of 
migration. We all know that the movement of persons 
across borders is an issue of staggering importance. It is 
our view that migration is one area where opportunities 
for  skilled  and  surplus  labour  can  be  explored.  To 
that  end,  my  Government  is  working  closely  with 
international partners to explore development outcomes 
related to migration. In addition, a national consultative 
committee  was  set  up  to  deal  with  a  range  of 
migration-related matters, such as the development of a 
strategic plan on migration and development. Included 
in  the  plan  are  interventions  aimed  at  enhancing  the 
proper utilization of remittances from the diaspora. We 
therefore need to embrace migrants at the global level 
for their contribution to the economic development of 
both their countries of origin and their host countries. 
We find it disturbing that migrants all over the world 
continue to face challenges of unprecedented magnitude. 
We  call  upon  all  parties  concerned  to  adhere  to  the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, 
and  we  look  forward  to  the  adoption  of  the  compact 
in December.
18-30110
7/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
Peace  and  prosperity  cannot  be  achieved  when 
women  and  girls  are  marginalized  and  not  given  the 
opportunity  to  contribute  to  development.  The  role 
of  women  and  other  disadvantaged  sectors  of  our 
communities  in  advancing  the  global  development 
agenda must be further enhanced. It is equally important 
to  underline  that  the  protection  of  human  rights  is  a 
noble  objective  of  the  international  community  that 
must not be politicized, redefined or even subjected to 
double standards according to the whims and caprices 
of a few powerful States pursuing their own agendas.
Today  on  the  African  continent  we  are  more 
determined  than  ever  to  rid  ourselves  of  conflict  by 
settling disputes through peaceful means. The warring 
parties  in  South  Sudan  have  finally  brokered  a  peace 
deal. The developments in the Horn of Africa offer hope 
for a prosperous and peaceful region. In particular, the 
normalization of relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea 
through the signing of a peace deal and the opening of 
embassies in both countries’ capitals will usher in a new 
era  of  peace,  with  substantial  concomitant  economic, 
humanitarian and strategic implications for the region.
We  continue  to  be  saddened,  however,  by  the 
situation in Western Sahara, which continues to be the 
only  colony  on  the  African  continent.  The  suffering 
of  the  Sahrawi  people  has  been  going  on  for  far  too 
long now. They deserve to be afforded an opportunity 
to  voice  their  aspirations  for  independence  through 
universal suffrage. Lesotho will continue to stand with 
them in their pursuit of emancipation.
As  the  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people  worsens, 
the  hope  for  the  resolution  of  the  crises  in  Syria  and 
Iraq  also  diminishes.  We  cannot  remain  indifferent 
to  the  suffering  of  those  innocent  people.  Unilateral 
actions that defy international agreements and United 
Nations  resolutions  will  only  worsen  the  situation  of 
the  Palestinians.  A  two-State  solution,  with  Palestine 
and  Israel  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  harmony, 
remains the only viable option for the settlement of the 
Palestinian question. Achieving peace is a process that 
requires engagement, accommodation and genuineness. 
Peace  cannot  be  achieved  through  war  or  oppression. 
All  of  us  joined  this  Organization  voluntarily  and 
professed a love for peace. Our actions must also reflect 
that commitment.
In  the  same  vein,  the  economic  and  commercial 
embargo imposed on Cuba continues to weigh heavily 
on our conscience. There is no doubt that that measure 
has had a negative impact on the people and the economy 
of Cuba. We call for the embargo to be lifted and for 
Cuba to be reintegrated into the world trading system.
In  today’s  globalized  world  it  is  indefensible  and 
incomprehensible that decisions that bind us all are left 
in  the  hands  of  a  few  Member  States.  Our  advocacy 
for the democratization of the United Nations must be 
intensified.  Reform  of  the  Security  Council,  one  that 
takes into account the aspirations of Africa, as set out 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  cannot  be  postponed  any 
longer. Transparency, inclusivity and democracy must 
inform the work of the entire United Nations system.
It is equally important to underscore that the gains 
made  in  the  field  of  disarmament  are  being  eroded 
gradually.  Small  arms  and  light  weapons  continue 
to  flood  the  illegal  market.  The  threat  of  the  use  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  has  re-emerged,  and 
the  United  Nations  is  paralysed  by  the  current  size, 
allocation  of  membership  and  power  configuration  of 
the Security Council, making the call for the reform of 
that organ even more urgent.
Mr.  Sokhonn  (Cambodia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
In conclusion, I note that the United Nations, to a 
very  large  extent,  has  attempted  to  put  people  at  the 
centre of its core business. However, still more needs 
to  be  done.  I  appeal  to  all  present  to  shun  those  who 
seek  to  divide  and  incite  us  against  each  other.  It  is 
through  our  solidarity,  more  than  anything  else,  that 
the  United  Nations  will  thrive  and  successfully  put 
humankind  at  the  centre  of  its  activities.  The  United 
Nations is the only platform that enables us to embrace 
true multilateralism.
At  the  same  time,  let  us  remember  that,  although 
we may have a shared vision and leadership determined 
to address peace, equity and sustainability challenges, 
the truth is that we are mortal beings with intellectual 
and other constraints. As such, we need to acknowledge 
that there is a divine Power above, which is the source of 
true wisdom. Let us therefore keep our communication 
lines  with  God  open  in  order  to  find  real  and  lasting 
solutions to the world problems that so often besiege us.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Lesotho for the statement he has just made.
8/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
Mr.  Thomas  Motsoahae  Thabane,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne, 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance  and 
Corporate Governance of Antigua and Barbuda
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for  Finance  and  Corporate  Governance  of  Antigua 
and Barbuda.
Mr. Gaston Alphonso Browne, Prime Minister and 
Minister for Finance and Corporate Governance of 
Antigua and Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso 
Browne, Prime Minister and Minister for Finance and 
Corporate  Governance  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Browne  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Year  after 
year,  Government  leaders  from  across  the  world 
travel  to  this  Hall  in  the  United  Nations  in  the  hope 
of finding a pathway to universal peace and progress, 
which has persistently eluded us all. The people of our 
nations — rich and poor, large and small — have long 
since stopped paying much attention to, or caring about, 
what  is  said  here.  For  them  this  place  is  a  talk  shop 
where  much  is  said  and  not  enough  is  being  done  to 
change their lives or give them good reason to believe 
that  a  better  life  is  coming.  What  they  know  is  that 
they live in a world in which 1 per cent of humankind 
controls more wealth than the other 99 per cent. What 
they see is a world controlled by a few powerful nations 
that impose their will on all the others in perpetuation 
of a system of sectional dominance.
To the children of Syria, Palestine, Israel, Yemen 
and Afghanistan who do not know a life without war, 
without  bombs,  without  conflicts  and  without  violent 
confrontation,  the  promise  of  turning  swords  into 
ploughshares is a meaningless phrase. To the people in 
sub-Saharan Africa and many parts of Latin America 
and Asia, the World Bank’s dream, emblazoned on its 
grand entrance in Washington, D.C., of a world free of 
poverty, continues to be a nightmare they relive every 
waking moment.
The fundamental undertaking by all nations, as set 
out in the Charter of the United Nations, namely,
“to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in 
the dignity and worth of the human person, in the 
equal rights of men and women and of nations large 
and small”,
stands in stark contradiction to the reality of refugees 
from  Africa,  Latin  America  and  war-torn  countries, 
who are forced to flee their homelands to try to cross 
the borders of the rich — some literally in cages.
Why, then, did I travel to the United Nations? Why 
am I standing at this rostrum when I could be in my own 
country tending to its affairs and trying, as best I can, 
to improve my people’s lives? I am here because none 
of  the  crises  I  just  described  exists  in  isolation.  Each 
of them engulfs us all, and at this forum, at least, I can 
raise my voice for the disadvantaged and dispossessed, 
including my own people in Antigua and Barbuda.
History  has  taught  us  that  no  nation  should 
believe  that  its  individual  oasis  of  wealth,  prosperity 
and  advantage  can  continue  to  exist  and  expand  if 
the rest of the globe is a wasteland. The reality is that 
the world is a global neighbourhood. No place on our 
planet is distant any longer, and neither are the issues 
that  plague  it.  The  hopes  and  aspirations  of  all  those 
communities — and, yes, their terrors, their torments 
and their fears — are shared by everyone. If they have 
not yet reached Member States’ doorstep, at the rate we 
are going they are certainly coming soon.
Walls around the rich cannot keep out diseases that 
are carried on the winds blowing from neglected pools 
of poverty. Migrants will not halt their determined trek 
from  their  homelands  in  search  of  better  conditions 
until  circumstances  in  their  own  countries  improve. 
While  the  Governments  and  political  parties  in  those 
countries  bear  a  great  responsibility  to  respect  and 
uphold  the  human,  civil  and  political  rights  of  their 
citizens, 
the 
rich,  has  an  obligation  to  contribute  to  the  economic 
development of those countries. Human freedoms, like 
fragile plants, even in the purest air cannot take root and 
thrive in conditions of deprivation and dispossession.
the  global  community,  particularly 
For  all  those  reasons,  our  nations,  collectively 
and  acting  in  a  united  way,  must  act  to  improve  the 
human condition. It is an imperative. That is why the 
revitalization of the General Assembly is vital, urgent 
and  important.  For  instance,  without  the  inclusion 
of  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  in  the 
discussions on global financial reforms, there can be no 
real comprehension of the grave vulnerability of small 
18-30110
9/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
States  to  external  shocks,  high  levels  of  poverty  and 
high debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratios.
A few privileged nations are making decisions that 
impact the livelihoods of billions. The exclusive clubs 
of the Group of Seven and the Group of 20 cannot repair 
the fragmented international financial system without 
taking full account of the circumstances and views of 
the majority of the world’s nations, and neither can the 
European Commission, which now seeks to impose its 
own anti-competition, high-tax policies on developing 
countries around the world.
Limits  on  participation  limit  ideas,  innovation 
and  human  development.  Arbitrary  rules  set  by 
unrepresentative bodies for their own narrow purposes 
have  no  legitimacy  in  the  world.  The  enforcement  of 
those arbitrary rules by the threats and sanctions of the 
mighty  is  not  legitimate.  It  results  only  in  grumbling 
and reluctant acquiescence that lacks enduring support. 
The might exercised by enforcers does not make their 
actions right.
That  is  why  the  General  Assembly  must  be 
revitalized.  Its  revitalization  would  serve  to  give 
this  gathering  relevance  and  would  help  address 
meaningfully  the  indifference  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world towards the Organization, about which I spoke at 
the beginning of this statement.
The  special  value  of  the  General  Assembly  is  its 
universality of membership and the fact that the voice of 
every Member State can be raised, but it must be seen to 
be more than a place for talk. It must be a place for action 
and  for  results.  For  years  the  General  Assembly  has 
been marginalized by the Security Council and by the 
notion that a small group of powerful countries should 
make decisions for the rest of the world. Where is the 
democracy  in  that  type  of  behaviour?  That  erroneous 
thinking has crept into every multilateral organization. 
It is so in the World Trade Organization (WTO); it is 
so in the International Monetary Fund; and it is so in 
the World Bank. The General Assembly must become 
the principal organ of the United Nations system — the 
only system that every nation of the world accepts and 
to which they all subscribe.
That  is  what  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
promised, and that is what nations expect. The failure to 
deliver on that promise has undermined multilateralism 
and encouraged the abuse of power by the powerful few 
and has frustrated people all over the world. Unless the 
General Assembly is revitalized and made relevant, the 
actions of the Security Council and other organizations 
will  be  endured,  but  not  embraced;  they  will  be 
accepted, but not respected; and they will be enforced, 
but not legitimized.
Despite the risk of my call falling on deaf ears, I 
hereby make the call once again for a reinvigorated and 
relevant  General  Assembly.  I  recognize  that  it  would 
not  serve  the  interests  of  the  powerful,  who  fear  the 
expression  of  dissent  and  the  call  for  political  rights, 
rights that many of the powerful demand should exist 
in other countries, but I would be neglectful of my duty 
of care and my responsibility to the poor and vulnerable 
and  to  the  silenced  and  stifled  if  I  did  not  raise  this 
clarion call for greater and fairer representation for all 
the world’s peoples.
As the leader of my country, I put its interests first. 
However,  I  know  that  in  standing  up  for  my  country 
first it would be foolhardy to stand up for my country 
alone.  That  would  be  a  dog-eat-dog  policy  that,  if 
practiced  by  every  nation,  would  result  in  short-term 
gains  for  the  richer  ones,  but  ultimately  in  losses  for 
all.  My  country  would  soon  run  out  of  friends,  run 
out  of  foreign  investors  and,  more  important,  run  out 
of  markets  for  its  goods  and  services.  The  analogy 
applies  to  countries  much  larger  than  mine,  even  the 
richest and most powerful, even those who believe that 
they are invincible. For when they have weakened all 
others to strengthen themselves, to whom will they sell 
their  goods  and  services  and  how  will  they  maintain 
their high standard of living and increase their wealth? 
Humankind itself is our global community that provides 
all of us with enduring citizenship. Loyalty to myopic, 
nationalistic  ideals  cannot  trump  patriotism  towards 
our common humankind.
I  recognize  that  today  all  nations  of  the  world 
are  interdependent  in  the  effort  to  stop  the  spread  of 
disease,  curb  the  effects  of  climate  change,  make  our 
peoples  safe  from  terrorists  and  organized  crime, 
share  knowledge  and  technology  and  have  access  to 
one another’s markets to trade in goods and services, 
thereby improving the lives of all people. Today’s world 
will be able to maintain and broaden peace, security and 
prosperity only through international teamwork. There 
is  no  other  way.  No  one  nation,  however  powerful, 
can  go  it  alone.  That  is  why  my  country  supports 
denuclearization by North Korea and Iran. It is why we 
would like to see all countries eliminate their nuclear 
arsenals. Global peace will not be won by a balance of 
terror,  and  that  is  what  pointing  nuclear  warheads  at 
10/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
each other is all about. It is a balance of terror. It is a 
zero-sum game that is playing with the survival of our 
planet  and  all  humankind.  No  one  should  be  playing 
that game, no matter how rich or powerful they are. In 
my country’s own Caribbean region, we have strongly 
advocated for a zone of peace. For too many centuries, 
our area has been the site of other peoples’ conflicts and 
ambitions. We had no say in those conflicts, which have 
left our region with a long shadow of stunted growth, 
dispossession  and  underdevelopment.  We  want  no 
more to be the theatre of the proxy wars of others. We 
want the chance to grow and develop, to claim a place 
under the sun and to make our unique contribution to 
human progress.
For that reason we welcome a recent visit to Cuba 
by  the  Chairman  of  the  Senate  Foreign  Relations 
Committee  of  the  United  States,  Mr.  Bob  Corker,  to 
talk  about  relations  between  the  two  countries.  We 
understand  that  progress  is  never  made  in  a  straight 
line.  There  have  been  many  zigs  and  many  zags,  but 
after five decades of imposing a trade embargo on Cuba 
the senselessness of that policy should be obvious to all. 
It is time to end it and to provide the Cuban people with 
the chance they have been so long denied to put their 
well-known  talents  in  medicine,  the  arts,  music  and 
education at the disposal of all humankind. We again 
call on the Congress of the United States to abandon the 
outdated trade embargo of Cuba and renew the avenues 
of  dialogue  and  cooperation  that  offer  beneficial 
prospects  for  the  peoples  of  both  countries,  and  by 
extension to all the Americas.
In  the  same  vein,  we  urge  all  nations  to  recall 
that  the  countries  of  the  United  Nations  committed 
themselves,  13  years  ago,  to  the  responsibility  to 
protect  their  own  populations  from  genocide,  war 
crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. 
What we did not do was to give any country or group of 
countries the right to intervene uninvited in the affairs 
of  any  other  country.  We  certainly  did  not  authorize 
military intervention in any way, shape or form. What 
we agreed was that there is a collective responsibility to 
encourage and help each country uphold its individual 
commitment to protect its own people, and we declared 
our preparedness to take timely and decisive action, in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, to 
help them to do so.
We all know that, in the words of the Charter itself,
“Nothing  contained  in  the  present  Charter 
shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in 
matters which are essentially within the domestic 
jurisdiction of any state”.
In  that  connection,  when  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-third  session  once  again  discusses  this 
matter,  we  must  strongly  discourage  bellicose  talk  of 
military  intervention  in  any  State  by  any  other  State 
or  group  of  States.  The  responsibility  to  protect  must 
not  be  used  as  political  cover  for  vigilante  action  to 
justify intervention in any country. The encouragement 
of  military  interventions  would  mortally  wound  the 
United Nations as a legitimate and effective body. That 
is a prospect to be firmly eschewed. Therefore, when 
and if the United Nations decides that democracy and 
human  rights  have  been  emasculated  by  tyranny  in 
any  country,  it  is  the  United  Nations  collectively  that 
must authorize and carry out any agreed action. In the 
words  of  former  United  States  Republican  President 
Dwight Eisenhower:
“If the United Nations once admits that international 
disputes can be settled by using force, then we will 
have destroyed the foundation of the Organization 
and our best hope of establishing a world order.”
The United Nations must always be a manifestation 
of the better angels of our common humanity, through 
which  we  must  seek  a  world  of  security  and  freedom 
governed by justice and moral law. Together we must 
assert  the  pre-eminence  of  right  over  might  and  the 
general  good  over  narrow  sectional  aims.  That  is 
why  my  country  calls  for  a  renewed  commitment  to 
multilateralism  and  a  rejection  of  trade  wars.  Goods 
and services together represent more than 28 per cent 
of the global gross domestic product, but the escalation 
of trade wars will lead to severe disruption across the 
globe. No country will be spared and, incidentally, the 
worst affected will be those that wage those wars. That 
disruption has already started, and its effects are being 
felt globally.
Already,  even  though  my  country  is  not  involved 
in  any  trade  war  with  anyone,  it  is  experiencing  the 
downside of trade wars between our trading partners, 
as  prices  of  our  imports  from  them  rise,  pushing  up 
the  cost  of  living.  The  World  Trade  Organization  is 
not  a  perfect  mechanism  for  solving  trade  disputes, 
but  walking  away  from  it  and  tearing  it  down  would 
do  nothing  except  to  destabilize  the  world’s  trading 
system,  which  is  fundamental  to  the  well-being  of 
18-30110
11/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
all.  It  is  up  to  all  nations,  rich  and  poor,  to  make  the 
system  work  by  improving  it  and  by  honouring  their 
individual commitments.
Fifteen  years  after  winning  an  arbitration  at  the 
WTO, my little country is still awaiting an acceptable 
settlement by the United States to honour its obligation 
to us. That is right — 15 years later we are still waiting. 
The United States economy is 20,000 times larger than 
that of Antigua and Barbuda. The compensation for the 
injury to my small country is less than 0.008 per cent 
of one year of the gross domestic product (GDP) of the 
United States. The injury that was done to my country’s 
economy now amounts to over 20 per cent of its GDP. No 
country can easily absorb that severe a blow, which hurts 
our economy, sets back our infrastructural development 
and  constrains  the  provision  of  employment  and 
advances in health and education. That my people have 
been able to survive that pain speaks to their resilience, 
of which I am extremely proud, but they should not be 
made to endure it.
Of course, the WTO is powerless to enforce its own 
awards, and my country has no means to do so. We rely 
on  respect  for  the  international  system,  adherence  to 
international law and the conscience of the mighty to 
do right to the weak whom they have injured. That is a 
struggle in which my country will continue to engage. 
We will not relent. And we will do so not in anger or 
in  enmity,  but  in  calm  and  in  comity  until  justice  is 
achieved. We owe it to our small island community not 
to rest until justice is done. As I said before, we will not 
relent on that issue.
those 
that  are 
In  the  context  of  justice,  the  refusal  by  some 
countries,  particularly 
the  worst 
contributors  to  greenhouse-gas  emissions,  to  admit 
to  the  harmful  effects  of  climate  change  and  to  take 
remedial action is an act of injustice. Small countries 
such  as  Antigua  and  Barbuda  contribute  the  least  to 
harmful  carbon  emissions  —  less  than  0.01  per  cent. 
Yet,  along  with  other  small  States  in  the  Caribbean 
and the Pacific, we are its greatest victims. The injury 
to  our  countries  continues  without  compensation, 
causing  our  economies  to  decline,  creating  refugees 
within  our  States,  scaring  away  foreign  investors, 
escalating  the  costs  of  insurance  and  rebuilding  and 
increasing the level of our debt. Those are the realities 
of climate change.
Last  year’s  hurricane  season  cost  the  Caribbean 
region more than  $150 billion. To put that in perspective, 
the  overall  economy  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) totals $80 billion. 
That  means  that  the  damage  to  countries  within  our 
subregion last year alone was almost twice the size of 
all our economies combined. Almost a year ago today, 
a  CARICOM-United  Nations  high-level  pledging 
conference was convened to assist Caribbean countries 
that  were  affected  by  Hurricanes  Irma  and  Maria. 
Billions  of  dollars  were  pledged,  although 
they 
were  insufficient  to  meet  the  costs.  More  important, 
unfortunately, less than half of the pledges have been 
delivered. Reconstruction is far from done; rebuilding 
lives and livelihoods will challenge us for some time to 
come. Where is the justice?
The  Caribbean  has  been  fortunate  this  year  in 
that  we  have  so  far  survived  the  hurricane  season. 
We watched in anguish and with enormous sympathy 
and  empathy  the  destruction  wrought  by  Hurricane 
Florence  on  the  Carolinas  in  the  United  States.  We 
mourned the loss of lives — a pain we know only too 
well.  What  the  destruction  of  the  Carolinas  this  year 
and the ruin of Caribbean countries last year served to 
emphasize to us is that borders may separate nations but 
they do not insulate them from the shared dangers of 
climate change. Sovereignty and patriotism do not give 
sanctuary from calamity; disaster befalls the wealthy as 
well as the poor.
that 
integrates 
That  is  why  we  continue  to  urge  for  a  global 
policy  dialogue 
the  environment 
with  development  and  that  accepts  the  fundamental 
understanding 
that  every  country  —  with  no 
exceptions — must play a meaningful role, within its 
means, to stop the persistent deterioration of our lives 
caused by climate change. The problem is global, and it 
requires a global solution. It requires the commitment 
of  all.  What  the  world  needs  is  a  recommitment  to 
the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  including  a 
commitment to the replenishment of the Green Climate 
Fund and the Adaptation Fund.
On behalf of the people of my country, the people of 
the Caribbean and Pacific islands, the people who live 
in the eye of storms such as those afflicting the eastern 
seaboard  of  the  United  States,  I  urge  all  countries 
to  come  to  the  table  of  dialogue  and  to  stand  by  the 
agreements  we  have  made  and  the  treaties  we  sign. 
Our shared planet and our common humanity depend 
upon it.
12/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Antigua 
and Barbuda for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Gaston  Alphonso  Browne,  Prime  Minister 
of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Moldova
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Moldova.
Mr.  Filip  (Republic  of  Moldova)  (spoke 
Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Moldova, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
in 
Moldovan; English text provided by the delegation): I 
would like to begin by congratulating Her Excellency 
Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session and to wish her success in fulfilling her 
important mandate. Furthermore, I would like to thank 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for the fruitful actions he carried 
out in his capacity as President of the General Assembly 
during the previous session and to wish him success in 
his future endeavours.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the  late 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  a  true  leader 
and  promoter  of  United  Nations  values,  who  will 
remain  in  the  memory  of  the  Organization  as  one  of 
the  most  distinguished  and  dedicated  supporters  of 
humanitarianism and global peace.
For  more  than  70  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
been  at  the  centre  of  multilateral  diplomacy,  playing 
a  primary  role  in  global  processes  from  international 
peace  and  security  to  the  promotion  of  human  rights 
and  sustainable  development.  While  the  international 
environment  continues  to  evolve,  now  is  a  crucial 
moment in which the United Nations must adapt itself 
in  order  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  modern  world. 
Hence we welcome the initiatives of Secretary-General 
António  Guterres,  which  he  has  been  carrying  out 
since his first day in office. In particular, we welcome 
the  reform  aimed  at  enhancing  the  performance  of 
the  Secretariat  in  the  area  of  international  peace 
and  security  by  focusing  on  conflict  prevention  as  a 
top  priority.  Furthermore,  we  support  the  efforts  to 
reform  United  Nations  management  by  streamlining 
functions  and  increasing  the  accountability  of  all  of 
the  branches  of  the  Secretariat  in  the  fulfilment  of 
their mandate. Finally, the recent decision to reposition 
the United Nations development system by enabling it 
to  effectively  contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals,  which  were  agreed 
three years ago, is particularly important.
Undoubtedly,  those  initiatives  are  very  complex 
and  will  bring  systemic  changes  across  the  entire 
Organization.  In  order  to  ensure  that  those  reforms 
yield  the  expected  results  in  the  medium  and  long 
terms,  transparent  and  constructive  dialogue  among 
United Nations management and States Members of the 
Organization must continue.
The  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development will definitely be a milestone 
in the work of the Organization for years to come. The 
reform of the United Nations development system comes 
at a time when the implementation of that Agenda must 
be accelerated at all levels in a joint effort of the United 
Nations system and Member States.
We  welcome  the  new  reform  vision  by  which  the 
private  sector  will  be  more  actively  involved  in  the 
achievement of sustainable development at the global, 
regional  and  national  levels.  That  partnership  has  the 
potential  to  provide  a  new  impetus  for  progress  and 
innovation, including for financial mobilization aimed 
at  filling  the  funding  gaps  that  the  Organization  is 
currently facing.
Bearing  in  mind  the  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  has  developed,  through  an  inclusive  and 
participatory  process,  a  vision  of  a  new  development 
strategy  called  Moldova  2030,  which  is  fully  aligned 
with  its  international  commitments,  including  the 
Moldova-European Union Association Agreement. That 
new development strategy highlights the well-being and 
human rights of our citizens and the protection of the 
environment, as well as cultivating an inclusive society, 
as its top priorities.
There are several ongoing projects aimed at realizing 
those  objectives.  We  are  currently  implementing  an 
ambitious national programme to rehabilitate the road 
infrastructure  across  the  country  in  order  to  improve 
18-30110
13/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
the  connectivity  and  mobility  of  people,  goods  and 
services.  We  are  introducing  greater  innovation  and 
technology in public services for greater accessibility, 
better  quality  and  transparency  and  in  order  to 
eliminate corruption.
We have taken an important step forward towards 
the  integration  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  into  the 
European energy market by signing an agreement with 
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
for  the  financing  of  the  largest  energy  project  in 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  since  its  independence. 
The  country’s  energy  independence  is  crucial  to  its 
sustainable  development  and  social  stability.  We  are 
working  actively  with  our  international  partners, 
including  United  Nations  agencies  and  programmes 
in the area of the environment, to continually develop 
renewable  energy  and  reduce  gas  emissions 
in 
accordance with our international commitments. Given 
the  complexity  of  the  2030  Agenda,  we  are  pursuing 
several  other  initiatives  as  part  of  our  comprehensive 
sustainable  development  vision,  which  we  are 
implementing together with the United Nations and our 
partners, in line with the new integrated approach.
While  the  United  Nations  managed  to  establish 
a  vision  for  reform  in  the  field  of  development  in 
the  General  Assembly  resolution  adopted  last  May 
(resolution  72/91),  in  the  security  sphere,  where 
political  factors  are  more  predominant,  deficiencies 
persist. The effectiveness and relevance of the United 
Nations  in  that  area  cannot  be  fully  achieved  simply 
through  the  internal  restructuring  of  its  Secretariat. 
The  delay  in  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  over 
the past 25 years has not contributed to respect for the 
Charter of the United Nations, international law or the 
maintenance of international peace and security, which 
are the core prerogatives of the Organization.
We follow with great concern the violent conflicts 
that  are  taking  place  in  various  parts  of  the  world 
with  severe  consequences  for  the  civilian  population. 
The inability of the Security Council to take effective 
measures in those situations raises a legitimate question 
about  its  relevance  as  a  decision-making  body  for 
international  security.  From  that  perspective,  reform 
is  key  to  restoring  the  relevance  and  authority  of  the 
Security Council and, by extension, that of the entire 
United  Nations,  in  matters  of  international  peace  and 
security. The Republic of Moldova supports the vision 
of an effective, representative, democratic and inclusive 
Security Council that is capable of swiftly responding 
to  complex  security  challenges.  Furthermore,  as  we 
have stated several times in the past, we advocate for 
the designation of an additional non-permanent seat in 
the Council to the Group of Eastern European States. 
And  we  hope  that  the  membership  of  the  General 
Assembly  will  come  to  an  agreement  on  outstanding 
reform issues sooner rather than later.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  requires  the 
Organization  to  play  a  proactive  role  in  maintaining 
international peace and security and in ensuring respect 
for Member States’ sovereignty and territorial integrity. 
By  bringing  matters  arising  from  challenges  to  their 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  national  security 
before  the  General  Assembly,  Member  States  do  not 
seek confrontation or the politicization of the work of 
the Assembly. It is only natural for such States to turn 
to the United Nations for assistance in promoting and 
encouraging solutions based on the strict observance of 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations.
During  the  high-level  segment  of  the  seventy-
second  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  reiterated, 
from this high rostrum, the calls to the United Nations 
to focus meaningfully on a grave breach of international 
law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  namely, 
the continued presence of Russian military forces and 
armaments on the territory of the Republic of Moldova 
without  our  consent  and  against  our  express  wishes 
(see A/72/PV.15). I also appealed to Member States to 
support the inclusion of an item focused on that pressing 
political,  legal  and  security  issue  for  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  in  the  agenda  of  General  Assembly.  I  am 
pleased  to  note  that  the  General  Assembly  adopted  a 
resolution  that  declared  in  a  straightforward  manner 
the  incompatibility  of  the  political  preconditions  that 
underpin  the  Russian  Federation’s  continuing  refusal 
to  withdraw  its  military  forces  and  armaments  from 
Moldovan soil with the norms of international law and 
the Charter of the United Nations (resolution 72/282). 
By  adopting  that  resolution,  on  22  June,  the  General 
Assembly also unequivocally stressed that the Russian 
Federation’s  non-compliance  with  international  law 
and the Charter of the United Nations has led to a clear 
violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of 
the Republic of Moldova and that Russia must withdraw 
its  military  forces  unconditionally,  completely  and 
without  further  delay.  The  resolution  is  a  first  and 
important  milestone  for  consolidating  the  support  of 
the  United  Nations  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity of the Republic of Moldova. In that context, 
14/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
I  would  like  to  express  our  deep  gratitude  to  all  of 
the  Member  States  that  sponsored  that  resolution  or 
supported its adoption.
forces  and 
Last  week,  following  the  recommendation  by  the 
General Committee, the General Assembly decided by 
consensus to include in the agenda of the seventy-third 
session  a  new  item  entitled  “Complete  withdrawal  of 
foreign military forces from the territory of the Republic 
of  Moldova”  (see  A/73/PV.3).  The  Government  of  the 
Republic of Moldova welcomes that important decision, 
which comes at a time when internal and subregional 
security has worsened owing to the repeated, unlawful 
and  destabilizing  activities  undertaken  by  the  foreign 
military 
the  unconstitutional  power 
structures  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  country.  The 
military exercises conducted jointly by the operational 
group  of  Russian  forces  in  Moldova,  which  are 
stationed  illegally  on  our  soil,  and  the  paramilitaries 
of the unconstitutional power structures have increased 
in scope and frequency, which represents a continued 
violation  of  the  1992  Moldovan-Russian  ceasefire 
agreement,  which  includes  an  explicit  legally  binding 
commitment  on  the  part  of  the  Russian  Federation  to 
ensure the neutrality of Russian military forces during 
the  process  of  their  withdrawal  from  the  territory  of 
the  Republic  of  Moldova.  The  illegal  joint  military 
exercises are aimed at upgrading the military-offensive 
capacity of the unconstitutional power structures and at 
undermining international efforts aimed at the peaceful 
resolution  of  the  protracted  Transnistrian  problem. 
Other States members of the Organization for Security 
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  have  echoed  the 
Republic of Moldova in its repeated expressions of deep 
concern  with  regard  to  those  unlawful  and  ongoing 
destabilizing  exercises,  which  run  contrary  to  the 
obligations undertaken by the Russian Federation in the 
framework of the 5+2 international settlement format.
From this rostrum today, we appeal once again to 
the Russian Federation to discontinue those illegal and 
provocative  activities  and  to  resume,  unconditionally 
and without further delay, the process of withdrawing 
its troops and armaments, in accordance with its legal 
commitments  under  the  1999  OSCE  Istanbul  summit 
outcome document and in observance of its obligations 
under international law and the Charter of the United 
Nations.
The  complete  and  unconditional  withdrawal 
of  foreign  military  forces  from  the  territory  of  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  will  undoubtedly  facilitate  the 
process of settling the Transnistrian conflict and help 
reintegrate  the  country.  Despite  the  many  difficulties 
encountered  in  the  settlement  process,  the  Moldovan 
authorities  are  determined  to  find  a  political  solution 
to  the  protracted,  externally  generated  conflict  in  the 
eastern part of the Republic of Moldova, within the 5+2 
negotiating  format.  For  us,  it  is  extremely  important 
that  that  solution  be  based  on  full  respect  for  the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of 
Moldova, with the provision of a special status for the 
Transnistrian region, as stipulated in the relevant OSCE 
documents.
I  would  now  like  to  refer  briefly  to  the  goal  of 
European integration, which guides the reform agenda 
of my country, particularly through the application of 
the  Association  Agreement  with  the  European  Union 
(EU).  By  aligning  the  Republic  of  Moldova  with  EU 
principles and standards and by harmonizing Moldovan 
national legislation with European legislation, we aim 
to bring our country closer to the EU and to ensure the 
sustainability of the modernization process.
terms, 
includes  several  dimensions, 
in  constructive  and 
The  extent  of  our  cooperation  with  the  EU  is 
broad.  It 
including 
engaging 
intensive  political 
dialogue, creating a free and comprehensive trade zone, 
promoting  intersectoral  cooperation  and  taking  stock 
of  opportunities  for  collaboration  within  the  Eastern 
Partnership.  In  economic 
the  Association 
Agreement  is  a  big  step  forward  for  the  economy  of 
the  Republic  of  Moldova,  as  the  European  Union  has 
become  the  country’s  main  trading  partner.  Several 
positive results have been achieved that facilitate trade 
in key sectors, including increasing the competitiveness 
of  our  goods  and  services,  and  opening  up  new 
opportunities for local producers. I am convinced that 
the implementation of the Association Agreement is the 
best and most viable option for ensuring prosperity and 
sustainable  development  for  the  Republic  of  Moldova 
and  will  warrant  making  the  path  to  EU  integration 
irreversible.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  the 
commitment of my country to continuously promoting 
respect  for  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  to 
contributing  to  the  achievement  of  internationally 
agreed  United  Nations  goals.  I  would  also  like  to 
express the hope that the initiatives recently launched 
to  strengthen 
the  Organization’s  capacities  will 
contribute to achieving improved performance in terms 
of  development  and  international  peace  and  security. 
18-30110
15/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
We shall remain true to United Nations ideals and will 
work  to  uphold  the  Organization’s  capacity  to  ensure 
respect for international law.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Moldova for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Pavel Filip, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Moldova, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Ms. Mia Amor Mottley, Prime 
Minister, Minister for National Security and 
the Civil Service, and Minister for Finance, 
Economic Affairs and Investment of Barbados
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
National Security and the Civil Service, and Minister 
for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs  and  Investment  of 
Barbados.
Ms.  Mia  Amor  Mottley,  Prime  Minister,  Minister 
for  National  Security  and  the  Civil  Service,  and 
Minister 
for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs  and 
Investment  of  Barbados,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Mia  Amor  Mottley, 
Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  National  Security  and 
the Civil Service, and Minister for Finance, Economic 
Affairs and Investment of Barbados, and inviting her to 
address the Assembly.
Ms.  Mottley  (Barbados):  Let  me  begin  by 
congratulating  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés 
on  her  election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly 
at its seventy-third session, and in particular for being 
the fourth woman in the 73-year history of the United 
Nations to receive the high honour of being elevated to 
the position of President of the General Assembly.
However,  I  would  like  to  pause  at  this  stage, 
because  I  came  here  with  a  speech  that  is  impossible 
for me to deliver given the events that have happened 
in the past 24 hours in the world in which we live and 
that cannot be ignored. Those events include the transit 
of  a  tropical  storm  across  my  own  country  that  we 
thought would have passed us by, only to have floods 
hit many of our communities overnight, the onslaught 
of that same storm on our sister country, Saint Lucia, an 
earthquake  off  the  shores  of  Martinique,  Guadeloupe 
and Dominica this morning, which did not affect land 
but  destabilized  those  islands,  an  earthquake  and 
tsunami off Indonesia earlier today, and a typhoon that 
is  about  to  deal  a  blow  to  the  people  of  Japan.  Those 
events are of great concern because the world in which 
we live is a very different world from the one we have 
known.
I ask myself, what does all that matter? Last year 
the Prime Minister of Dominica stood at this rostrum 
within  days  of  the  passage  of  a  hurricane  so  violent 
that to describe it as a category 5 hurricane would be 
to  do  injustice  to  what  the  people  of  Dominica  were 
exposed to (see A/72/PV.19). The Assembly heard my 
colleague the Prime Minister of Antigua speak earlier 
of the fact that over $140 billion in damage has come 
to  the  Caribbean  region  as  a  result  of  those  weather 
systems. I therefore ask the interpreters today to bear 
with  me,  because  it  is  impossible  to  deliver  a  speech 
that is focused on anything else other than our reality 
in the Caribbean, our reality in the Pacific islands, our 
reality in the world in which we live.
As  Heads  of  Government,  we  have  asked  the 
international community to address those issues, both 
in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and as we 
come to twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, against the background of climate 
change consisting of a warming of as much as 2°C. But 
two days ago, at the One Planet Summit, a graph was 
shown that has haunted me for the past 48 hours. That 
graph spoke to the fate of the world with respect to the 
tipping points for a warming of 3° Celsius and under, 
for 3° to 5°, and for over 5°. For a change of 3° Celsius 
and  under,  for  which  we  are  now  on  course  because 
of our inability to take decisive action, the Arctic, the 
Antarctic  and  Greenland,  as  well  as  the  coral  islands 
and their people — the people of the region from which 
I come — are at terrible risk.
For us it is about saving lives; for others it is about 
saving  profits.  We  have  reached  the  stage  where  we 
ask the global community to recognize that what is at 
stake is simply not an academic debate. It is simply not 
a question of the profits of multinational corporations. 
But the evidence is clear and decisive that it is the lives 
and the livelihoods of our people that are at stake.
I  ask  the  Assembly,  how  can  we  just  listen  to 
speech  after  speech  after  speech  about  the  problem? 
How many more speeches must we listen to before we 
realize that agreements are necessary to fund the effort 
16/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
to  address  climate  change,  as  well  as  agreements  to 
cap our emissions. We cannot accept a change of 2°C, 
because a change of 2° means a rising sea level of 1.5 to 
2 metres for our islands. For islands like ours much of 
our economy is based on our coasts. The international 
community  must  begin  to  understand  what  it  will  be 
like for us by the end of the century. Matters pertaining 
to  migration  and  security  will  become  ever  more 
pressing  in  this  world  if  we  do  not  put  a  stop  our 
growing emissions.
I have therefore come here today not to talk about 
a  wide  range  of  issues.  There  are  those  who  would 
wish  that  I  would  speak  on  denuclearization,  and  our 
voice will be heard on that issue, as the statement that 
I  originally  planned  to  deliver  will  be  distributed. 
There  are  those  who  would  wish  that  we  should 
also  speak  on  a  matter  that  is  gravely  affecting  our 
community  —  chronic  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs) — and we shall speak on that continuously in 
other forums, because it is affecting one in every four 
of  our  citizens.  There  are  those  who  would  want  me 
to  speak  also  about  the  graduation  of  middle-income 
countries  to  a  status  where  we  have  lost  access  to 
finance, which, ironically, affects our ability to adapt 
our environments, economies and societies to confront 
climate change and its vagaries.
But when we make those arguments in forum after 
forum after forum, we are met with stern faces and a 
determination that our per capita income — as if that 
were the real factor in how people eat and how people 
move  and  how  people  sleep  —  should  now  preclude 
us from being able to have access to the very funding 
needed to protect our people from the worst ravages of 
the  storms,  earthquakes  and  fires  that  beset  us.  I  ask 
this  global  community  to  pause  and  reflect.  As  we 
learned when we went to San Francisco two weeks ago 
for  the  Global  Climate  Action  Summit,  time  is  truly 
running out on us.
We will make the decisions that we have to make 
on  a  national  level.  We  have  committed  to  banning 
single-use  plastics  and  styrofoam  starting  in  April 
2019. We will try to become a fossil-fuel-free country 
by 2030. But what does that mean against the backdrop 
of  a  world  that  is  not  prepared  to  put  the  funding  in 
place  to  be  able  to  stop  the  worst  aspects  of  climate 
change?  What  does  that  mean  to  people  who  have  to 
rely on a Green Climate Fund because their per capita 
income or their capacity to provide for their people is 
simply not there? Is this a sterile environment, or is this 
an environment that recognizes that, mighty or small, 
we in this world must protect each other?
As  a  small  State  we  are  accustomed  to  being 
treated sometimes as if we did not exist. That is what 
happened when de-risking from correspondent banking 
became the order of the day in the past few years, as 
if  it  were  possible  to  cut  a  region  off  from  access  to 
trade  and  expect  it  to  be  able  to  pay  for  goods  and 
services, despite the fact that its banks can no longer 
have relationships with banks outside its borders. The 
only  time  people  were  treated  like  that  before  was  in 
the previous century when we separated persons out of 
the general population as lepers. But the countries that 
come here to the United Nations as sovereign countries 
begin  to  ask  themselves,  do  we  now  live  in  a  world 
where  the  mighty  manoeuvre  to  make  the  majority 
into minions? Or is this still a world that was promised 
to  us  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
upholding respect for the dignity of all?
We as small States need a corridor of stability. We 
simply do not have the buffer to be able to withstand the 
shocks of international economic and financial crises. 
We do not have the ability to withstand climate shock, or 
the capacity to come to grips with the pervasive nature 
of chronic NCDs. Those are the things that destabilize 
us.  But  to  that  is  added  the  removal  of  the  insurance 
policy  of  the  United  Nations  —  an  Organization  that 
may  not  be  well  known  or  popular  by  name  among 
our citizens, but an organization nevertheless without 
which  we  could  not  have  made  the  gains  that  we 
have made with respect to the reduction in childhood 
mortality, with respect to the billions of people being 
lifted out of abject poverty, or with respect to us being 
able as a world to create zones of peace, as we hope our 
Caribbean region will always be, not like in previous 
centuries, when it became a theatre of battle.
The  United  Nations  matters  to  us.  It  protects  the 
small, it constrains the large and it gives us the ability 
to  be  able  to  plan  for  the  future  in  that  corridor  of 
stability. When multilateralism is taken away from us, 
what are we left with and who is left to protect us? Who 
will hear us, and on whose platform will we be able to 
call not just upon the Governments of the world but also 
on the people of the world? For what is clearly required 
now is a behavioural change so that we can constrain 
the  madness  that  is  taking  place  and  restore  global 
governance  so  as  to  counter  the  unilateral  actions 
of many.
18-30110
17/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
We  ask  ourselves,  how  do  our  citizens  feel  that 
we must come here year after year and make the call 
year after year as we do? From Barbados we come here 
and we speak about the embargo against the people of 
Cuba — year after year — almost as if it were pro forma. 
But it is not pro forma for the people in La Habana or 
Santiago.  We  speak  about  territorial  disputes  but  we 
see no major gains with respect to them. That may be 
tolerable for certain things, but it cannot be acceptable 
for the issue of climate change. That is a matter of life 
and death for us.
We  stand  here  conscious  that,  in  many  respects, 
today’s  world  looks  like  the  world  of  100  years 
ago — the world that my grandparents inhabited, with 
its  concentration  of  wealth,  inequity  and  disposition 
to  nationalism  and  xenophobia.  And  what  did  that 
lead to 100 years ago? It led to two world wars and an 
atomic bomb. I repeat, it led to two world wars and an 
atomic  bomb.  There  are  some  who  might  say  that  it 
was the occurrence of those wars that gave rise to the 
United Nations, because the circumstances at that time 
forced nations to agree when they might otherwise not 
have agreed.
I  truly  pray  that  this  world  does  not  need  to  see 
greater calamity or greater loss of life to understand what 
is required of each and every one of us, as we stand in 
trust on behalf of the people whom we represent and who 
demand decisive action. We are not expected to achieve 
it all. The Talmud says that we are not even expected 
to complete the task, but we are not at liberty to resile 
from it. We in the Caribbean and in the Pacific need the 
world to look again at a commitment to a change of no 
more than 1.5° C, because 2° would be calamitous. We 
need dedicated financing for development in accordance 
with the Addis Ababa Action Plan, which speaks about 
small  island  developing  States.  We  need  the  world  to 
recognize that the graph that showed the tipping points 
must  not  serve  to  reinforce  our  greatest  fear,  namely, 
that the world believes that we are dispensable. For that 
was how we felt a century and more ago.
I raise the question in the same way that I understand 
that  our  principles  must  remain  constant.  Fifty-two 
years ago, the first Prime Minister of Barbados stood 
at  this  rostrum  and  articulated  a  principle  that  binds 
us  still  today,  namely,  that  we  in  Barbados  shall,  in 
the  conduct  of  our  international  relations,  forever  be 
friends  of  all  and  satellites  of  none  (see  A/PV.1487). 
That is absolutely still our principle, but the world in 
which we live is no longer the world that existed when 
he  delivered  those  comments.  The  baton  has  been 
passed from leader to leader, but it is time now for us in 
this Hall and in my country to recognize that that baton 
must  be  held  firmly,  because  the  storms,  tsunamis, 
hurricanes, earthquakes and fires threaten to take the 
baton from us. I pray that the United Nations recognizes 
that the year 2020 is but 15 months away and that there 
will be a point of no return.
This  is  not  a  science-fiction  movie.  This  is  not  a 
cartoon.  And  if  I  ever  thought  that  it  was  a  fantasy, 
what transpired in the last 24 hours across the different 
poles of the world has reminded me that it is not. I leave 
here to cut short my trip so that I can go home to my 
country. Some may say that, in spite of the flooding, we 
were lucky that tropical storm Kirk did not do greater 
damage. Two weeks ago in San Francisco, it was Isaac. 
I say simply that we cannot plan our affairs, or those 
of  our  people,  on  the  basis  of  luck.  It  must  be  on  the 
basis of policy and decisive action, but above all else 
on the basis of caring and empathy. I ask the world to 
pause — pause — and let us get this one right, because 
it is not about Governments anymore. It is about people.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  National  Security  and  the  Civil  Service,  and 
Minister for Finance, Economic Affairs and Investment 
of Barbados for the statement she has just made.
Ms.  Mia  Amor  Mottley,  Prime  Minister,  Minister 
for  National  Security  and  the  Civil  Service,  and 
Minister 
for  Finance,  Economic  Affairs  and 
Investment  of  Barbados,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Ricky Nelson Houenipwela, 
Prime Minister of Solomon Islands
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Solomon 
Islands.
Mr. Ricky Nelson Houenipwela, Prime Minister of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ricky  Nelson 
Houenipwela, Prime Minister of Solomon Islands, and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Houenipwela (Solomon Islands): At the outset, 
allow me, on behalf of my Government and the people 
of Solomon Islands, to convey our warmest greetings to 
18/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
the President and the members of the General Assembly. 
We offer our warmest congratulations to the President 
on  her  election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  am  confident  that  she 
will  ably  guide  our  deliberations  during  the  current 
session.  I  assure  her  of  my  delegation’s  full  support 
and  cooperation  during  her  tenure  in  office.  I  also 
commend  and  thank  her  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Miroslav Lajcák, for his sterling stewardship of the 
previous session, and we thank him for his leadership.
Solomon  Islands  also  joins  other  members  in 
mourning  the  loss  of  the  late  Kofi  Annan,  former 
Secretary-General  and  a  proud  son  of  Ghana  and 
Africa. We acknowledge his immense contributions to 
the work of our Organization. The late Kofi Annan was 
truly a global statesman.
I  welcome  the  theme  chosen  for  this  session.  It 
reflects  the  ultimate  goal  that  this  organ  strives  to 
achieve.  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies” is indeed 
a powerful theme. It speaks of a united world, with both 
equal  responsibilities  and  equal  opportunities.  It  also 
speaks of the need to be united in order to achieve peace 
and tranquillity among all our nations and peoples.
The implementation of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) of Agenda 2030 requires a unified global 
partnership, and the achievement of those Goals requires 
the  concerted  efforts  of  all  stakeholders  to  mobilize 
all  available  resources.  Agenda  2030  recognizes  that 
by  acting  together  we  can  conquer  the  inequities  that 
have  befallen  us  today,  be  they  man-made  or  natural. 
The Goals also reflect the Preamble to the Charter of 
the  United  Nations,  which  speaks  powerfully  of  our 
mission to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, 
the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person  and  the 
equal rights of men and women and of nations large and 
small. The Preamble clearly articulates the principle of 
universality for all peoples and all nations regardless of 
their size.
Unfortunately,  the  world  has  entered  an  era  in 
which the foundation and strengths of multilateralism 
are  being  challenged  and  undermined  by  unilateral 
State  posturing  and  manoeuvres.  We  have  seen  a 
proliferation  of  insularly  focused  policies  on  the  part 
of  some  countries,  causing  them  to  renege  on  their 
commitments  under  various  international  frameworks 
to 
and 
treaties.  The  United  Nations  enables  us 
consolidate  our  collective  resolve  and  solidarity  for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security, 
promote sustainable development, advance respect for 
human rights and promote the rule of law.
Solomon  Islands  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
achieving  the  SDGs  by  2030.  To  that  end,  we  have 
incorporated the SDGs into our national development 
strategy for the period 2016-2035. We also welcome the 
midterm review of the small islands developing States 
(SIDS)  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  Pathway. 
It  is  my  hope  that  the  outcomes  of  the  review  will 
provide the impetus needed to reinvigorate the special 
case  for  SIDS  going  forward.  The  review  should  also 
ensure  that  all  partners  and  stakeholders,  together 
with  SIDS,  more  effectively  address  the  challenges 
faced by SIDS and take full advantage of opportunities 
through  genuine  and  durable  partnerships.  Solomon 
Islands  acknowledges  that  achieving  the  SDGs  will 
be  an  arduous  and  challenging  task.  However,  it  is  a 
path that we must trek. We welcome all the assistance 
and  support  we  have  received  from  our  development 
partners towards that cause.
This  year  Solomon  Islands  met  two  of  the  three 
criteria  for  graduation  from  the  status  of  a  least 
developed  country  (LDC)  for  the  second  consecutive 
time.  The  Committee 
for  Development  Policy 
recommended that Solomon Islands graduate from the 
list  of  LDCs.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has 
also recommended that this organ consider and endorse 
our graduation accordingly.
in  order 
to  maintain 
While  my  Government  appreciates  the  report 
and  its  recommendations,  I  must  point  out  that,  as  a 
post-conflict  State,  Solomon  Islands  will  require  the 
development  of  appropriate  prudent  macroeconomic 
and  financial  policies 
the 
threshold  indicators  upon  which  the  recommendation 
for  graduation  is  premised.  It  is  therefore  my  fervent 
hope that the Assembly will grant Solomon Islands an 
opportunity  to  properly  assess  the  potential  impacts 
of LDC graduation on the key sectors that sustain our 
economy.  A  predictable  and  workable  strategy  that 
would put us on a continued upward trajectory will need 
to  be  developed  as  well.  I  call  on  the  United  Nations 
system  to  support  us  in  those  assessments  and  in  the 
development of appropriate strategies that could assist 
us to move forward boldly and with confidence.
The  Solomon  Islands  Government  respects  the 
process  of  graduation,  which  is  based  on  an  agreed 
18-30110
19/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
rules-based system, and we will endeavour to graduate 
from  the  LDC  status.  However,  any  appropriate  and 
relevant  assessment  undertaken  of  the  country  must 
be  well-conceived,  thorough  and  consultative.  As 
Members  States  are  aware,  the  graduation  of  SIDS 
from LDC status will not improve the problem of our 
vulnerabilities.  In  that  connection,  we  are  pleased  to 
know that a special task force has been established to 
ensure a smooth transition of SIDS from LDC status.
While we in Solomon Islands are not subject to threats 
of an armed invasion, we are nevertheless continuously 
being  invaded  by  a  common  enemy,  one  that  the 
international community calls climate change. Climate 
change  is  now  the  greatest  threat  facing  humankind. 
For  us  in  the  Pacific  islands  that  threat  is  existential. 
The resulting climate-change-related extreme weather 
events  mean  that  Solomon  Islands  —  like  other 
Pacific  island  countries  and,  as  we  have  just  heard, 
the Caribbean — is increasingly susceptible to natural 
disasters of great severity. The threat of sea-level rise, 
as well as the inundation and salination of arable land 
and the destruction of biodiversity, partially caused by 
a  warming  ocean  and  acidification,  are  elements  that 
give  rise  to  food-security  concerns,  and  increase  the 
risk of potential conflicts.
In  the  light  of  that  threat,  Solomon  Islands  calls 
for  collective  global  leadership  on  climate  change 
action  and  strengthened  commitment  to  achieving 
positive  outcomes  during  the  twenty-fourth  session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is to 
be held in Katowice, Poland, this year. Solomon Islands 
joins other Pacific island States in strongly urging the 
largest  emitters  of  greenhouse  gases  to  take  urgent 
actions  to  reduce  those  harmful  emissions:  reduce 
now, or regret later. In the ongoing dialogue on climate 
challenge,  appropriate  financial  support  to  SIDS  to 
address their losses and the damage resulting from the 
destructive effects of climate change must be seriously 
considered.
In  our  efforts  to  reduce  our  reliance  on  fossil 
fuels  and  meet  our  intended  nationally  determined 
contributions,  Solomon  Islands  remains  committed  to 
transitioning to the use of renewable energy. On behalf 
of my Government and the people of Solomon Islands, 
I  extend  our  gratitude  to  our  partners,  including  the 
World  Bank,  the  Green  Climate  Fund,  the  Economic 
Development  Cooperation  Fund  of  Korea, 
the 
Australian  Development  Assistance  Bureau  and  the 
Asian Development Bank, for their financial assistance 
and  support  for  the  Tina  River  hydrodevelopment 
project.  When  completed,  that  project  will  provide 
approximately  80  per  cent  of  the  power  needs  of 
Honiara,  our  capital.  I  also  acknowledge  the  bilateral 
assistance  provided  by  the  Governments  of  Italy, 
Spain,  Austria  and  Luxembourg  to  the  Pacific  small 
island developing States, including Solomon Islands, to 
support renewable energy projects. We look forward to 
continuing those partnerships in the coming years.
Adequate and quality infrastructure is a prerequisite 
for positive economic and inclusive growth. Investment 
in infrastructure projects positively impacts a majority 
of the population and enhances accessibility to goods 
and services, both private and public. In that connection, 
Solomon Islands is grateful to the Government and the 
people of Japan for their assistance in implementing the 
transformative  development  of  major  infrastructure, 
such as the Honiara city main roads, the Honiara seaport 
and  the  proposed  upgrade  of  Honiara  International 
Airport.  The  opening  of  the  second  international 
airport, in Munda, and the undersea fibre-optic cables 
are  also  game-changing  infrastructures.  The  people 
and  the  Government  of  Solomon  Islands  are  grateful 
for  that  valuable  assistance  from  Australia  and  New 
Zealand.
Solomon  Islands  has  benefited  from  South-South 
cooperation on capacity-development programmes with 
countries  such  as  Papua  New  Guinea,  Fiji  and  Cuba, 
including  the  potential  to  explore  other  innovative 
opportunities  such  as  pharmaceutical  solutions.  The 
people of Solomon Islands are forever grateful to all of 
our development partners for their genuine and durable 
partnerships. We will collaborate and increase efforts 
going forward.
As a large ocean State, the issue of the conservation 
and  proper  management  of  ocean  resources  is  an 
important  priority  for  Solomon  Islands.  We  will 
actively engage on matters concerning the management 
of  oceans.  With  regard  to  oceans  management  on 
the  high  seas,  my  Government  welcomes  the  recent 
first  intergovernmental  conference  to  negotiate  an 
international  legally  binding  instrument  under  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the 
conservation and sustainable use of marine biological 
diversity  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction.  A 
successful outcome in the form of a fair and equitable 
framework  will  again  prove  the  relevance  of  the 
Organization and its convening powers.
20/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
At  the  regional  level,  Solomon  Islands  subscribes 
to  the  Blue  Pacific  initiative,  which  sets  the  context 
for  the  development  of  our  regional  priorities.  We 
believe  that  maintaining  the  well-being  of  the  oceans 
should be a key priority, as acknowledged in SDG 14. 
The  restoration  of  fish  stocks,  the  implementation  of 
science-based  management  measures  and  monitoring, 
control and enforcement are but some of the measures 
that  Solomon  Islands  is  promoting  through  domestic 
and regional arrangements.
At  the  national  level,  I  am  pleased  to  inform  the 
Assembly that we are in the final stages of developing 
an  ocean  policy  that  will  rationalize  and  enhance  the 
coordination  and  implementation  of  all  ocean-related 
legislation and policies. The development of the national 
policy is a voluntary commitment that we announced at 
last year’s Ocean Conference.
Security  concerns  have  become  more  complex. 
They  now  involve  activities  beyond  the  traditional 
definitions.  Some  of  them  now  include  new  threats 
such as climate change, cybercrimes and transnational 
organized  crime,  among  others.  It  is  therefore  now 
more  important  than  ever  that  we  work  more  closely 
and  collectively  with  the  international  community  to 
address those security concerns and threats.
This  year  we  witnessed  constructive  engagement 
towards  the  better  management  of  relations  on  the 
Korean  peninsula.  The  United  Nations  must  continue 
to ensure that conflict prevention and resolution remain 
a central plank in its work, as mandated by the Charter 
of the United Nations.
Solomon  Islands  recognizes  that  stability  in  the 
Middle  East  is  critical  to  world  peace.  A  peaceful 
Middle East will lead to a prosperous world. Solomon 
Islands also continues to call for the peaceful settlement 
of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and supports a two-
State solution.
landscape, 
In  the  Pacific,  security  concerns  are  driven  by 
external  factors,  human  security  and  climate-change 
challenges.  In  recognizing  the  importance  of  our 
changing  security 
the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum  leaders  undertook  to  build  on  the  positive 
platform established by the Biketawa Declaration. That 
culminated in our adoption, earlier this month, of the 
Boe  Declaration  at  the  recent  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
summit held in Nauru. As we continue to work towards 
the goal of global peace, the need to actively engage in 
peacekeeping remains.
Although small, Solomon Islands is contributing to 
the achievement of global peace and security through 
its  participation  in  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
programme.  So  far,  Solomon  Islands  has  contributed 
12  officers  to  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  South 
Sudan. Solomon Islands is committed to increasing its 
participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions. 
Cognizant  of  the  important  role  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions,  we  call  on  Member  States  to 
work  collectively  to  ensure  that  the  sustainability  of 
United  Nations  programmes  is  not  undermined  by 
funding shortfalls. Having benefited from the Regional 
Assistance Mission to the Solomon Islands, my country 
values the importance of peacekeeping missions.
Adequate resources are required in order to sustain 
peace. I am sure that the international community also 
recognizes  that.  In  that  connection,  Solomon  Islands 
has  benefited  from  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  approved 
by  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  November  2017. 
Through the resources provided under the Peacebuilding 
Fund, we have been able to facilitate dialogue involving 
a wide range of stakeholders on key issues, including 
land reform, rural development, border issues and the 
participation of youth and women.
Recognizing 
landscape  and 
the  complex  and  ever-changing 
global-security 
realities,  Solomon 
Islands reiterates the call for the reforms of the Security 
Council to be inclusive, by expanding the focus of the 
Council  to  non-traditional  security  priorities.  Small 
island  developing  States  must  have  a  voice  through 
a  dedicated  seat  in  the  non-permanent  membership 
category in the Council.
The  biggest  threat  facing  the  Pacific  islands, 
apart  from  climate  change,  is  the  threat  caused  by 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs).  Approximately 
70  to  80  per  cent  of  all  deaths  in  the  Pacific  can  be 
attributed  to  NCDs,  with  many  of  those  deaths  being 
premature.  In  the  Pacific,  including  in  Solomon 
Islands, the high prevalence of NCDs translates into an 
economic burden on health-care systems. Two thirds of 
the beds in the National Referral Hospital in Honiara, 
our capital, are occupied by NCD patients. The burden 
that  NCDs  poses  on  the  productivity  of  the  people  of 
Solomon Islands and the opportunities forgone in order 
to provide care for NCD patients make that issue a key 
socioeconomic  concern  for  an  economy  with  a  small 
human-resource  base.  The  international  community 
has already acknowledged, in the Samoa Pathway, the 
18-30110
21/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
challenges posed by NCDs to small island developing 
States. Now is the time for action.
While we speak of leaving no one behind, we still 
close  our  doors  to  Taiwan  and  continue  to  contradict 
our  own  principles  by  leaving  Taiwan’s  23  million 
people behind. The implementation of the Sustainable 
Development Goals requires a unified global partnership. 
Taiwan  is  ready,  willing  and  able  to  engage  in,  and 
contribute  to,  the  wide  range  of  substantive  United 
Nations  programmes  for  the  welfare  of  humankind. 
Solomon Islands continues to call for the participation 
of  Taiwan  in  United  Nations  specialized  bodies, 
including  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, the World Health Organization and 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization.  Taiwan 
is the twenty-second-largest economy in the world and, 
as  such,  Taiwan  should  be  part  of  global  solutions  in 
the  various  international  frameworks.  I  believe  that 
Taiwan  has  a  lot  to  contribute  through  its  experience 
and  technological  capability.  If  we  are  to  focus  on 
shared  responsibility  and  promote  peaceful,  equitable 
and sustainable societies, we should give Taiwan and its 
23 million people a chance. Despite the contributions 
made by Taiwan to the well-being of the citizens of the 
globe, we continue to ignore the right of Taiwan to self-
determination. The time has come for the Assembly to 
give due recognition to Taiwan as a legitimate member 
of the family of nations.
It  is  important  that  the  administering  Powers  of 
non-self-governing  territories  and  all  the  relevant 
organizations  honour  their  commitments  made  under 
the Charter and the 1960 Declaration on the Granting 
of  Independence  to  Colonial  Countries  and  Peoples. 
To that end and in accordance with the 1998 Nouméa 
Accord,  Solomon  Islands  welcomes  the  free  and  fair 
referendum to be held in New Caledonia on 4 November. 
Solomon Islands reaffirms that human rights principles 
are  universal,  indivisible  and  interrelated  and  must 
be treated in a fair manner. All States have the moral 
duty and responsibility to uphold, respect and promote 
human  rights  and,  where  necessary,  take  preventive, 
protective and punitive measures against human rights 
abuses and violations.
Solomon Islands recognizes and respects Indonesia’s 
sovereignty  over 
territorial  boundaries.  My 
Government commits to working with the Government 
of  Indonesia  on  areas  of  mutual  interest,  including 
human rights concerns in Papua and West Papua.
its 
Solomon Islands is committed to the principles of 
good  governance  and  transparency.  We  have  passed 
an  anti-corruption  act,  which  aims  to  eliminate  the 
scourge of corruption from all levels of our society. In 
addition,  our  Parliament  has  passed  a  whistle-blower 
protection  act,  thereby  giving  due  protection  to  those 
who bring issues of  corruption  to  the  attention  of  the 
relevant authorities. Solomon Islands is also committed 
to democratic principles and processes. We are equally 
committed to the holding of free and fair elections in 
early 2019.
Solomon Islands is an ardent believer in collective 
action.  We  are  staunch  supporters  of  multilateralism. 
As  such,  we  stand  in  solidarity  with  all  members 
of  the  Assembly  —  the  pinnacle  of  multilateralism. 
Without the United Nations, we would not, as a small 
island  country,  be  able  to  be  heard.  Other  louder 
voices would drown us out. Our expectations from the 
Organization remain high. As such, adequate resources 
for programmes and projects that will have an impact 
on citizens are needed. The United Nations has flaws, 
but Solomon Islands continues to feel the impact of the 
power  of  working  together  on  global  issues  that  are 
championed by the United Nations. We believe that the 
principles  and  values  upon  which  the  United  Nations 
was founded remain relevant.
Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people 
is  not  just  about  standing  up  and  talking  about  it  in 
the  General  Assembly  Hall.  It  is  incumbent  upon  us 
all  to  be  seen  as  making  the  United  Nations  relevant 
to all peoples in the actions that we take individually 
and collectively.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Solomon Islands for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Ricky Nelson Houenipwela, Prime Minister of 
Solomon Islands, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Khurelsukh Ukhnaa, Prime 
Minister of Mongolia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Mongolia.
Mr.  Khurelsukh  Ukhnaa,  Prime  Minister  of 
Mongolia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Khurelsukh  Ukhnaa, 
22/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
Prime  Minister  of  Mongolia,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Ukhnaa  (Mongolia)  (spoke  in  Mongolian; 
English text provided by the delegation): At the outset, I 
wish to express my heartfelt congratulations to Ms. María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  being  elected  President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. I 
pledge my delegation’s full support and cooperation in 
the discharge of her heavy responsibilities.
Today  we  are  living  in  a  flat,  globalized  and 
interrelated  world.  Our  life  is  digitalized  to  a  great 
extent,  and  our  way  of  life  is  greatly  shaped  by 
technological progress. In spite of such developments, 
we encounter a plethora of global flashpoints, including 
conflicts, poverty, hunger and inequality. I am therefore 
glad to represent my Government in this general debate, 
which  will  deliberate  issues  relating  to  making  the 
United Nations more relevant to all people and making 
the world more peaceful, equitable and sustainable.
Over  the  past  73  years,  the  United  Nations  has 
reached out to and assisted every Member State as part 
of  its  diligent  activities  to  promote  peace,  justice  and 
global  understanding.  Accordingly,  under  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, it is timely for the 
United Nations to endeavour, in line with its founding 
principles, to reach every individual in Member States. 
Mongolia  appreciates  the  leadership  that  Secretary-
General  António  Guterres  has  shown  through  his 
reform  initiatives  in  reinforcing  the  joint  efforts  of 
Member States to leave no one behind. We support his 
reform initiatives in the peace and security architecture, 
which  are  aimed  at  ensuring  stronger  prevention 
and  mediation  activities  and  making  peacekeeping 
operations more cost-effective, as well as his initiatives 
aimed at repositioning the United Nations development 
system, which aspire to reform the United Nations so as 
to create a more effective, well-coordinated, transparent 
and accountable organization.
According to a report by the Stockholm International 
Peace Research Institute, world military expenditures 
are estimated to have reached $1.7 trillion in 2017. That 
is not only an increase over the previous year, but also 
the highest level of such expenditures since the end of 
the Cold War. The arms race shows no sign of abating, 
and the situations in some regions are unstable owing 
to  deteriorating  conflicts.  The  use  of  technological 
advancements 
the 
world  situation  more  dangerous  than  ever.  Mongolia 
in  armed  conflicts 
is  making 
has  always  held  the  principled  position  that  conflicts 
should  be  resolved  peacefully  and  through  dialogue. 
Based  on  our  peaceful  philosophy,  originating  in  our 
national mentality and religious beliefs, we have always 
supported peace and security initiatives proposed at the 
General Assembly and other forums, and have striven 
to be a responsible member of the Organization.
With  regard  to  Mongolia’s  initiatives  aimed  at 
demonstrating  its  contributions  to  peace  and  security 
at  the  global  and  regional  levels,  I  need  mention 
only  the  resolutions  on  Disarmament  Week,  which 
has  been  observed  from  24  to  30  October  every  year 
since 1978; the Declaration on the Right of Peoples to 
Peace, adopted in 1984; and my country’s declaration 
as  a  nuclear-weapon-free  State  in  1992,  the  status  of 
which  we  continue  to  guarantee.  Mongolians  have 
a saying that, “It is better to give a needle in time of 
need rather than to give a camel when wealthy” — or, 
as  it  is  said  in  English,  “A  friend  in  need  is  a  friend 
indeed”. Mongolians always try to assist other nations 
and  people  when  they  are  in  need  or  seek  peace  and 
stability. On one such occasion, we brought hundreds 
of  orphans  from  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  to  Mongolia  following  the  Korean  War  and 
subsequently  raised  them.  During  past  decades,  we 
have stretched out our hands to the extent possible to 
a number of countries that have faced natural disasters 
and 
rendering  development 
assistance  to  countries  of  the  region  and  sharing  our 
modest experience with democratic transition.
terrorist  acts,  while 
This  year  we  are  celebrating 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  which 
has contributed immensely to world peace and security. 
Mongolia  first  joined  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
in  2002,  with  the  deployment  of  unarmed  military 
observers, and began deploying troops in 2006. Today 
we  are  proud  of  our  troops,  who  have  been  praised 
by the international community for their robust, calm 
and  appropriate  approach  to  peacekeeping.  As  one  of 
the  major  30  troop-contributing  countries,  as  well  as 
one  of  the  leaders  in  terms  of  troop  deployment  per 
capita, Mongolia envisages increasing its participation 
in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and 
fully  supports  the  Secretary-General’s  Action  for 
Peacekeeping initiative.
Addressing  security  issues  in  North-East  Asia  is 
one  of  our  foreign-policy  priorities,  as  it  has  a  direct 
impact on our security and development. Mongolia has 
been closely following and has welcomed recent positive 
18-30110
23/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
developments  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  including  the 
inter-Korean  and  other  bilateral  summits,  which  have 
provided an important impetus to confidence-building 
and  ensuring  peace  and  security  in  North-East  Asia. 
However, we are not merely observing the process, but 
are also trying to contribute to it. Since the 1980s, we 
have been consistently pursuing the policy of launching 
a dialogue mechanism in North-East Asia. Those efforts 
yielded the Ulaanbaatar Dialogue on Northeast Asian 
Security  — an international conference that has been 
held  annually  since  2014.  The  Dialogue  is  currently 
developing  into  an  open  and  inclusive  mechanism 
that  brings  together  both  Government  officials  and 
representatives from academia from all of the countries 
in the subregion. Discussion topics cover a broad range 
of  issues,  including  security,  energy,  infrastructure, 
green development and opportunities for humanitarian 
cooperation, among others.
Asia  is  one  of  the  most  disaster-prone  regions  of 
the world. We actively support regional cooperation for 
enhancing  disaster  resilience,  reducing  disaster  risk 
and increasing the effectiveness of disaster-prevention 
activities.  Within  that  framework,  we  have  proposed 
an  initiative  to  establish  the  Northeast  Asia  Disaster 
Risk  Reduction  Platform  in  Mongolia.  The  proposal 
was  discussed  at  the  conferences  of  the  Ulaanbaatar 
Dialogue on Northeast Asian Security and the second 
Asian  Ministerial  Conference  on  Disaster  Risk 
Reduction, successfully hosted in Ulaanbaatar in July, 
which received warm support from the countries of the 
region  with  regard  to  its  implementation.  Mongolians 
believe  that  neighbours  share  the  same  disposition 
and  interests.  As  Mongolia  is  determined  to  develop 
strategic  partnerships  with  its  two  big  neighbours,  it 
closely  follows  their  initiatives  at  the  regional  level 
and strives to engage with them in every possible way. 
We recently proposed initiatives to facilitate travel for 
nationals of countries along the Belt and Road corridor 
and proposed the Peace, Prosperity, Progress, Promise 
Award for junior diplomats and scholars from Belt and 
Road countries.
Undoubtedly,  many  of 
the  armed  conflicts, 
rivalries, insurgencies and terrorist attacks that trouble 
us today have been caused by the clash of civilizations 
and religions. Mongolia is one of the few nations that 
has had no religious or ethnic wars in its history. The 
great  Mongolian  Empire,  established  812  years  ago, 
was governed by a written and codified law, and it was 
a genuine home of religious freedom, where Christians, 
Muslims,  Confucians  and  Buddhists  were  treated 
equally  and  lived  together  without  any  ideological 
struggle.  In  brief,  the  legacy  of  religious  tolerance 
and  respect  in  the  Mongolian  Empire,  which  covered 
an immense swathe of territory, is very instructive for 
today’s world. More recently, during the era of the Cold 
War  in  the  twentieth  century,  we  carried  out  specific 
activities  aimed  at  bringing  together  the  voices  of 
international Buddhists to support world peace through 
the  Asian  Buddhist  Conference  for  Peace  (ABCP), 
which was established in 1969 and has achieved tangible 
results in combating ideological divisions.
We  perceive  a  pressing  need  today  for  effective 
dialogue mechanisms, such as the ABCP, which enjoys 
consultative status in the Economic and Social Council. 
We are therefore determined to revitalize its activities 
at the regional and international levels. In that regard, 
as  a  regional  hub  connecting  North-East  and  Central 
Asian countries, we are announcing, from this rostrum, 
our  initiative  to  host  the  Conference  on  Religious 
Freedom in Mongolia in March 2019. We are confident 
that our initiative will contribute constructively to new 
developments  in  the  culture  of  peace  and  religious 
tolerance and freedom worldwide.
Mongolia  was  one  of  the  early  adopters  of  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the national 
level,  with  the  adoption  of  its  own  Sustainable 
Development  Vision  2030 
in  February  2016.  In 
accordance with its Vision, by 2030 Mongolia aspires 
to  consolidate  its  democratic  governance,  preserve 
ecological  balance,  eradicate  poverty  in  all  its  forms 
and  rank  among  the  upper-middle-income  countries. 
My  Government  has  been  taking  important  steps  to 
ensure  coherence  between  the  SDGs  and  the  national 
development  policies  that  have  been  implemented 
previously and translate them into short- and medium-
term  plans  and  programmes.  In  order  to  provide 
financing for development, an investment programme 
has  been  adopted  in  line  with  the  Government  action 
plan.  Moreover,  SDG 
indicators  were  developed 
based  on  multi-stakeholder  consultations  and  will  be 
adopted shortly.
Mongolia  has  witnessed  an  economic  resurgence 
with  accelerated  foreign-trade  turnover,  increased 
investment and a budget surplus over the past two years. 
However, Mongolian economic growth, which is highly 
dependent  on  mining  and  vulnerable  to  commodity 
prices,  tends  to  be  unstable  and  risky  in  terms  of 
ensuring  the  allocation  of  financial  resources  for  the 
24/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
particularly  in  years  of  commodity-price  decline. 
Moreover, another challenge faced by my Government 
involves  ensuring  that  every  citizen  benefits  from 
economic  growth.  For  instance,  following  the  recent 
economic  growth,  unemployment,  but  not  poverty, 
decreased  modestly.  We  are  therefore  introducing 
measures  aimed  at  reducing  income  disparities  and 
poverty  into  all  relevant  Government  programmes 
and  sectoral  plans,  while  compiling  a  comprehensive 
database  of  low-income  households  and  supporting 
public-private  partnerships.  In  order  to  resolve  issues 
comprehensively, the national programme on reducing 
poverty and unemployment will be launched shortly.
This  year  we  are  celebrating 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights — a milestone document in the history of human 
rights. In accordance with the ideals enshrined in the 
Declaration,  Mongolia  has  made  remarkable  progress 
in the area of the promotion and protection of human 
rights. In recent years particular importance has been 
attached  to  the  issues  of  enhancing  gender  equality, 
protecting the rights of children, the elderly and persons 
with  disabilities,  combating  human  trafficking  and 
drugs, and ensuring freedom of speech and expression. 
For the period from 2016 to 2018, Mongolia has been 
serving as a member of the Human Rights Council for 
the first time. It has been an honour for us to contribute 
to  global  endeavours  to  protect  and  promote  human 
rights. Everyone is entitled to a social and international 
order  in  which  the  rights  and  freedoms  set  forth  in 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  can  be 
fully realized.
Following  the  2016  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees and Migrants, Member States have continued 
working  constructively  on  the  issue  of  migration. 
We  expect  that  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly 
and  regular  migration  will  be  adopted  in  Marrakesh, 
Morocco, in December on the historic day marking the 
seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and will serve as a valuable document 
in terms of ensuring the protection of the rights of all 
migrants. The world has witnessed the highest level of 
population displacement ever over the past two decades. 
That  phenomenon  has  not  spared  my  country,  which 
has a small population and is located in the highlands 
of North-East Asia.
We are experiencing a high volume of internal and 
external migration for a number of reasons, including 
unemployment and poverty. Owing to a large number 
of citizens who have been moving from the countryside 
to cities since the 1990s, as of 2017 45 per cent of our 
total population lives in the capital city of Ulaanbaatar, 
with a net annual growth of 22.3 per cent. The social 
ramifications  include  poverty,  unemployment,  poor 
access  to  health-care  services  and  a  high  level  of  air 
pollution  in  the  capital  city  as  compared  with  other 
areas.  The  citizens  of  Mongolia  are  highly  educated. 
The  fact  that  the  second-largest  portion  of  the  2018 
State budget has been allocated to the education sector 
demonstrates  the  Government’s  firm  commitment  to 
prioritize  human-resource  development.  However, 
access to schools and the quality of education has not 
always  kept  pace  with  demographic  growth,  rates  of 
urbanization and modern education standards. While the 
pupil-to-classroom  ratio  in  schools  and  kindergartens 
has decreased together with the population density in 
rural areas, the opposite is true in urban centres. It was 
troubling for me to hear at one of my public meetings 
in Ulaanbaatar last year that the 10-year-old child of a 
citizen had to walk home at 9 p.m. through dark winter 
streets,  as  the  temperature  dropped  to  between  -20°C 
and -25°C on his way back home after the third shift of 
his school, which does not provide bus service.
The  Government  of  Mongolia  is  planning  and 
implementing  policies  and  programmes  that  aim,  by 
2030,  to  address  effectively  the  challenges  faced  by 
living in the capital, including kindergarten shortages, 
the fact that approximately 30 suburban schools must 
operate  in  three  shifts,  the  overloading  of  family 
hospitals  and  the  adverse  affects  of  air  pollution  on 
people’s  health,  as  well  as  the  issue  of  unemployed 
people in Ulaanbaatar, who account for one third of the 
nation’s unemployed. Furthermore, approximately 5 per 
cent  of  our  total  working-age  population  is  working 
abroad, and that percentage is increasing. We therefore 
need to take comprehensive measures to resolve issues 
pertaining to their health care, social insurance and dual 
citizenship, and improve the related legal environment.
Climate  change  is  yet  another  daunting  challenge 
for  humankind  today,  along  with  peace,  security  and 
development  issues.  The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change  has  been  ratified  by  179  countries.  However, 
the implementation rate is not living up to expectations, 
and the fulfilment of shared responsibilities by States 
Members  remains  insufficient.  We  therefore  welcome 
and  support  the  Secretary-General’s  timely  initiative 
to  convene  the  United  Nations  2019  Climate  Summit 
18-30110
25/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
for  reviewing  the  Paris  Agreement  commitments. 
Global  warming  and  climate  change 
impact  all 
nations, and they are felt more intensely in the context 
of  the  economic  and  social  development  of  the  least-
developed  countries,  landlocked  developing  countries 
and  small  island  developing  States.  In  that  regard, 
I  would  like  to  highlight  that,  through  the  initiative 
and  leadership  of  Mongolia,  the  International  Think 
Tank  for  Landlocked  Developing  Countries  has  been 
established in Ulaanbaatar and became fully operational 
in  May.  The  International  Think  Tank  —  the  first-
ever  intergovernmental  organization  representing  the 
32  landlocked  developing  countries  —  will  carry  out 
policy  research  and  implement  feasible  projects  to 
address  common  challenges  and  protect  the  interests 
and  positions  of  those  countries  with  the  purpose  of 
augmenting  their  ability  to  benefit  from  international 
trade. I am confident that members will continue their 
cooperation and support for the activities of the Think 
Tank, as they have done in the past.
In  Mongolia,  where  extreme  weather  conditions 
prevail and the economy mostly relies on mining and 
agriculture, the scope, frequency and negative impact 
of  disasters  —  such  as  earthquakes,  desertification, 
soil erosion and forest fires — have increased in recent 
years. I would like to take this opportunity to inform 
the  Assembly  that,  during  United  Nations  Climate 
Week, my delegation will be screening a documentary 
entitled  Blue  Gold.  We  are  sharing  that  documentary 
with members not only to show the devastating impact 
of  climate  change  in  Mongolia,  but  also  to  sound  the 
alarm about similar consequences elsewhere and appeal 
for timely protective steps to be taken.
In conclusion, I would like to call, from this United 
Nations rostrum, for unity among all nations in a spirit 
of  mutual  trust  and  awareness  of  our  responsibilities 
for the sake not only of the current but also of future 
generations, as well as to strive for peaceful, equitable 
and sustainable societies.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Mongolia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Khurelsukh  Ukhnaa,  Prime  Minister  of 
Mongolia, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Simon  Coveney,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade 
with responsibility for Brexit of Ireland.
Mr.  Coveney  (Ireland):  The  General  Assembly  is 
meeting this week as we mark the 100th anniversary of 
the birth of the late Nelson Mandela of South Africa and 
as  we  mourn  the  recent  death  of  Kofi  Annan,  former 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. They were two 
great leaders from Africa,whose personal commitment 
to  the  values  and  principles  of  multilateralism  was 
unwavering — something that we should reflect upon 
and,  I  hope,  draw  inspiration  from,  particularly  at  a 
time of global instability and of open challenges to the 
very  approach  to  the  global  decision-making  process 
that has been the foundation of this institution. Ireland 
was  honoured  to  have  been  asked  to  co-facilitate  the 
consultative  process  with  Member  States  to  produce 
the political declaration adopted at the Mandela Peace 
Summit (resolution 73/1) on Monday. Nelson Mandela 
and Kofi Annan were revered and loved in my country. 
In  order  to  do  justice  to  their  legacy,  we  must  renew 
our  efforts  to  actively  work  for  a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance  and  respect  for  human  dignity  globally.  Is 
that not fundamentally what the United Nations should 
be  about  today?  Can  we  not  challenge  ourselves  to 
use  the  Peace  Summit  and  this  week  at  the  General 
Assembly to strive, with the courage and humility that 
Mandela and Annan showed, for the type of world that 
they  envisioned  and  fought  for?  In  truth,  we  must  do 
much better than we are currently doing to live up to the 
aspirations that they represented.
Geographically,  Ireland  is  a  small  island  on  the 
western edge of Europe, but in Ireland we see ourselves 
as  an  island  at  the  centre  of  the  world,  with  a  global 
diaspora more than 10 times the size of our population at 
home. We have learned that, in an interdependent world, 
the  challenges  of  our  time  do  not  respect  geographic 
boundaries.  Finding  solutions  is  surely  now  a  shared 
responsibility and — whether a small Polynesian island 
or a super-Power — we all breathe the same air. That 
sense of shared responsibility guides Ireland’s view of 
the world and the part that we are trying to play in it. 
Almost a century ago, Ireland became an independent 
State, thereby escaping a history of colonialism. Ours is 
hardly a unique story, but it is one that I hope allows us 
in Ireland to empathize with so many of the countries 
represented  in  this  Hall.  Like  the  United  Nations 
itself, we were born out of conflict. It has shaped how 
we  view  the  world  and  our  current  responsibilities  as 
global citizens. Our membership in the United Nations 
has played, and continues to play, a major part in our 
development.  We  not  only  support  a  fair,  rules-based 
order in international affairs, but we exist, survive and 
26/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
prosper  because  of  it.  We  see  no  viable  alternative  to 
that approach.
In 
peacekeeping, 
disarmament, 
sustainable 
development,  climate-change  issues,  nutrition,  human 
rights  and  humanitarian  assistance,  we  have  striven 
to match our words with actions, along with increased 
funding  and  support  for  multilateral  structures. 
While  the  system  has  its  flaws  and  always  requires 
improvement and modernization, Ireland is convinced 
that  there  is  no  other  way  to  meaningfully  address 
the  common  opportunities  and  threats  that  face  us 
all.  For  Ireland  —  and,  I  suggest,  for  many  smaller 
Member States as well — multilateralism strengthens 
our independence, self-confidence and security, rather 
than  diminishes  it.  If  one  believes,  like  Ireland,  in 
multilateralism,  now  is  the  time  to  fight  for  it  across 
the  United  Nations  system,  including,  if  necessary, 
standing  in  opposition  to  powerful  countries  that 
have 
roles 
within  this  institution.  We  certainly  cannot  —  and  I 
will  never  —  defend  a  logic  that  views  multinational 
engagement as an abdication of national leadership or 
as  a  loss  of  influence  on  the  international  stage.  We 
urgently need global leadership that galvanizes global 
support  through  strength  of  argument,  as  opposed  to 
economic or military strength, and that leads to finding 
solutions  to  our  collective  problems  so  as  to  raise 
living standards for everybody, in particular for those 
furthest  behind.  We  must  start  believing  in  a  world 
where  solidarity  is  just  as,  if  not  more,  important  as 
sovereignty —  a  world  where  we  live  in  each  other’s 
shelter and not shadow.
traditionally  played  great 
leadership 
We  need  —  and  I  believe  that  we  must  demand 
during  weeks  like  this  one  —  positive  outward-
looking  leadership  by  the  great  Powers  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  Powers  that  traditionally  have 
been  indispensable,  if  imperfect,  forces  for  good 
across the world. Without that, in truth, I fear for the 
future  of  global  stability,  and  I  fear  for  the  future  of 
the United Nations in the work that it must do — work 
that can never be replicated or replaced by transactional 
bilateral  engagement  where  the  powerful  dominate 
decision-making, and decisions are no longer based on 
the  strength  of  argument,  compassion  or  generosity, 
but are instead based on States being forced to choose 
sides, fearful, perhaps, of being offside with the strong 
and powerful, or, in some cases, singled out for special 
treatment if they do not provide their support. Ireland 
does not wish to see any diminution in the role played 
by  the  United  Nations  leading  actors  and  funders.  At 
the same time, we will always demand a place on the 
stage for everyone and an atmosphere that encourages 
free  speech  and  new,  if  sometimes  controversial, 
thinking. The United Nations foundations will crumble 
without  the  inclusivity  and  generosity  of  thinking 
embedded  through  decades  of  experience.  Sometimes 
it  is  the  smallest  States  that  have  the  answers  to  the 
biggest problems.
the 
Today  we  cannot  be  complacent  about 
the 
institutional  reforms  needed  to  maximize  the  United 
Nations legitimacy and relevance in a rapidly changing 
world.  Ireland  salutes  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General and welcomes the steps taken by the General 
Assembly  on  reform,  but 
implementation  of 
those reforms will be our real test of success. Ireland 
particularly  wants  to  see  the  successful  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  development  system  aimed  at  better 
supporting  the  implementation  of  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals. That is why my Government earlier 
this month pledged more than $1 million in support of 
the reform of the United Nations development system 
as  a  complement  to  the  strong  financial  support  that 
Ireland  has  an  obligation  to  continue  to  provide  to 
United Nations funds, programmes and agencies.
However,  reforms  at  the  United  Nations  must  go 
beyond the managerial and structural level. The United 
Nations  political  bodies  must  also  catch  up  to  where 
the rest of the world is right now. That is particularly 
the case regarding the Security Council. Ireland is clear 
on the need to increase the size of the Council. Many 
areas of the world are either insufficiently represented 
in the Council or, in some cases, not represented at all. 
The historically unjust underrepresentation of Africa in 
particular needs to be addressed so that there can be an 
equitable African voice in Council decisions affecting 
their own continent, where much of the United Nations 
focus will be needed in the decades ahead. We know that. 
We also want to see the consideration of a designated 
role  for  small  island  developing  States.  The  growing 
impact of climate change, which many speakers before 
me have mentioned, on international peace and security 
concerns adds weight to that call.
It  is  not  only  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council,  however,  that  needs  to  come  under  scrutiny. 
The use or threat of use of the veto remains a serious 
obstacle to the work of the Council, but also to that of 
the United Nations as a whole. Far too often the use of 
the veto has resulted in the shocking abandonment of 
18-30110
27/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
some of the most vulnerable people on our planet. The 
failure of the Security Council to take action to prevent 
mass-atrocity  crimes  betrays  victims  and  undermines 
the United Nations credibility. History will not judge us 
kindly on that issue. I strongly believe that the political 
reform of the Council would inevitably lead to a greater 
sense  of  participation,  responsibility  and  ownership 
among  the  United  Nations  membership,  as  a  whole. 
That would surely only be positive for the functioning 
of  the  United  Nations  more  broadly.  Many  say  that 
people like me and others are wasting our time calling 
for the reform of the Security Council and that the great 
Powers will never allow it. That may be so, but if the 
power of evidence and argument is to mean anything in 
the Council Chamber, Ireland will keep trying to build 
a coalition for change.
While recognizing the need for new structures, we 
also need to make the best use of existing structures and, 
of course, always look to improve them. International 
criminal  justice,  where  there  has  been  an  irreversible 
and, I hope, significant shift towards accountability, is 
one such example. It is particularly pertinent to recall 
that fact on the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of 
the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
Justice and accountability always provide a better 
alternative to revenge, impunity or amnesty. We have 
seen  important  developments  in  the  area  of  gender-
based and sexual violence by enabling the prosecution 
of  sexual  violence  as  a  war  crime,  a  crime  against 
humanity  and  genocide.  I  am  glad  to  say  that  we 
have  witnessed  universal  justice  strengthened  beyond 
power politics and geopolitical interests. I am pleased 
to  report  that  earlier  this  month,  Ireland  ratified  the 
Amendments  to  the  Rome  Statue  of  the  International 
Criminal Court on the crime of aggression, which were 
agreed in Kampala. Yesterday I lodged our instrument 
of ratification with the Secretary-General.
Ireland welcomes the level of ambition at the heart 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  new  disarmament  agenda. 
We  hope  that  it  will  serve  as  a  turning  point  in  the 
current  challenges  facing  the  disarmament  and  arms-
control processes.
Ireland is proud of the historic role that it played in 
the development of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  in  the  past  century.  The 
NPT demonstrates what States can achieve together in 
the spirit of peace and cooperation. However, we also 
have a responsibility to remain ambitious in the pursuit 
of the total elimination of nuclear weapons. I hope that 
our  efforts  to  promote  the  adoption  of  the  Treaty  on 
the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  will  continue  to 
reflect that.
Ireland, like many in this Hall, is deeply concerned 
by the persistent use of explosive weapons in populated 
areas  in  armed  conflicts  around  the  globe.  Civilian 
populations  continue  to  bear  the  brunt  of  armed 
conflicts.  We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  fulfil  the 
Secretary-General’s  call  to  address  that  challenge  in 
a  more  comprehensive  way  than  we  have  to  date.  We 
continue  to  call  on  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea to abide by its obligations under the relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  its  international 
commitments  and  to  abandon  all  nuclear  and  other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  ballistic-missile 
programmes in a complete, verifiable and irreversible 
manner. We welcome the progress towards that end.
Ireland’s  multilateralism  runs  deep  through  our 
commitment  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping.  Our 
contribution to United Nations peacekeeping operations 
enjoys a special place in the hearts of the Irish people. 
This  year  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  Ireland’s 
participation in United Nations peacekeeping missions. 
Tens  of  thousands  of  Irish  women  and  men  have 
worn  blue  helmets  or  blue  berets  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations over six decades, particularly 
on missions in Africa and the Middle East. Our Prime 
Minister  stated  here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters 
in July that we are as proud of the blue helmet as we 
are of the harp or the shamrock — symbols of Ireland. 
Today  there  are  more  than  500  Irish  defence  force 
personnel — men and, increasingly, women, I am glad 
to say — deployed across the Middle East and Africa in 
six United Nations missions.
The  humanitarian  and  development  work  of  the 
United  Nations  is  central  to  Ireland’s  commitment  to 
the  Organization.  However,  we  know  that  we  have 
an  obligation  to  do  more.  We  have  reaffirmed  our 
commitment  to  achieving  the  United  Nations  target 
of  providing  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income 
for  official  development  assistance  by  2030  —  the 
same  year  that  the  world  has  pledged  to  deliver  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  But  in  real  terms 
what that means is that Ireland would have to increase 
its  contribution  to  development  from  approximately 
€750 million a year to more than €2.5 billion a year over 
the next 10 to 12 years. We are ambitious for Ireland’s 
international  development  cooperation,  but  we  also 
28/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
need to be authentic to our own experiences as we seek 
to maximize our contribution.
My  country  has  known  hunger  and  famine.  We 
have  known  poverty.  But  we  have  also  experienced 
transformation — a transformation based on education, 
innovation and a vibrant civic society. Of course, our 
values are not Ireland’s alone. They are at the core of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 
future that most people in this Hall seek. We know that, 
in  order  to  create  a  peaceful,  fair  and  just  world,  we 
must respect the human rights of everyone. Economic 
progress cannot be delivered at the cost of equality for 
all and of protecting the most vulnerable in our societies. 
We  must  also  go  beyond  rhetoric  in  our  efforts  to 
empower women and girls. Gender equality cannot be 
seen as a gift to be granted but rather as a fundamental 
driver that can underpin real improvements in the lives 
of so many people.
The  need  for  collective  action  to  address  climate 
change  has  been  a  common  theme  this  week  and  is 
more  evident  by  the  month.  As  an  island  State,  we 
learned centuries ago that the waters surrounding our 
island cannot deter forces beyond our control. Isolation 
certainly  does  not  mean  safety.  Since  I  spoke  here 
last  year  (see  A/72/PV.20),  Ireland  has  experienced 
its  first  hurricane,  generated  in  the  eastern  Atlantic, 
its  most  severe  winter  cold  snap  and,  this  summer, 
the  most  sustained  drought  in  living  memory.  The 
denial  of  climate  change  needs  to  end,  and  collective 
action  on  climate  adaptation,  as  well  as  mitigation, 
needs  to  intensify.  Today  many  more  island  nations 
face challenges not of their own making as a result of 
climate change, pollution and rising sea levels. We must 
work together to overcome those challenges as nations 
united in our determination to protect ourselves and the 
way in which we live.
More  broadly,  the  scale  of  the  humanitarian 
crises  facing  the  international  community  cannot 
be  overstated.  More  than  134  million  people  around 
the  world  are  in  need  of  humanitarian  assistance  and 
protection,  with  conflict  being  the  single  greatest 
driver  of  that  need.  As  a  country  committed  to  the 
humanitarian principles, we will continue to contribute 
to  international  efforts  to  ease  the  plight  of  civilians 
suffering  the  impact  of  conflicts  in  places  such  as 
South  Sudan,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Syria, 
Yemen, Palestine and, unfortunately, many other parts 
of the world.
Today there are over 68 million people worldwide 
who  have  been  forcibly  displaced  from  their  homes, 
with  more  than  25  million  cross-border  refugees.  I 
am  very  conscious  that  a  huge  majority  of  displaced 
people are being sheltered in countries that are already 
experiencing  high  levels  of  vulnerability  and  poverty 
and that their generosity places a huge strain on already 
very limited resources. Ireland will continue to support 
refugees  and  vulnerable  host  communities.  However, 
I  want  to  particularly  acknowledge  the  generosity  of 
many States and the extraordinary burden that they bear 
today —  States  such  as  Bangladesh,  Ethiopia,  Egypt, 
Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Pakistan, Turkey, Uganda and 
many more. Those countries host enormous numbers of 
people displaced by conflicts in neighbouring regions. 
We need to do more to help them.
Bangladesh  is  now  host  to  the  world’s  largest 
refugee  camp,  sheltering  over  1  million  refugees.  In 
the  year  since  I  last  addressed  the  General  Assembly 
that  camp  has  swelled  with  hundreds  of  thousands 
of  Rohingya  refugees  fleeing  appalling  violence  in 
their neighbouring home state. The Rohingya must be 
assured of a safe, voluntary, dignified and sustainable 
return, and the international community must insist on 
an  end  to  impunity  for  the  appalling  acts  of  violence 
that have come to light, as well as ensure accountability 
for the crimes that have been committed.
Because  of  Ireland’s  experience  of  prolonged, 
intractable conflict, but one that ended in a successful 
peace  settlement,  the  Israel-Palestine  conflict  and 
the  lack  of  progress  on  a  peace  agreement  have  been 
a  big  foreign  policy  priority  for  me  and  for  the  Irish 
Government for many years. Ireland’s own experience 
shows  that  even  decades-long  conflicts  do  have  a 
turning  point.  Sometimes  that  turning  point  comes 
unexpectedly, and sometimes it happens quickly.
Peace is a process; it is not a moment. To bear fruit, 
that  process  requires  untiring  work  and  commitment. 
We all surely realize by now that forced outcomes with 
winners  and  losers  can  never  be  a  basis  for  lasting 
peace.  From  all  my  visits  to  the  Middle  East,  I  know 
that the current situation serves the interests of neither 
people, but I am also conscious that the burden of being 
under occupation is the heavier one.
Settlement construction exacerbates that fact and is 
causing ever-greater damage to the prospects for peace. 
Ireland,  like  many,  is  very  conscious  of  the  threat  to 
the small Bedouin village of Khan al-Ahmar and other 
18-30110
29/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
strategically located West Bank villages. Let me say this 
very clearly: what happens there will tell us much about 
whether we can count on a real commitment on the part 
of those involved to negotiating a two-State solution.
The situation in Gaza is also simply untenable, and 
the 1.9 million people living there desperately need the 
decade-long  blockade  to  end  so  that  they  can  start  to 
rebuild  normal  lives  and  so  that  teenagers  will  reject 
the twisted promises of radicals and look to the future 
with some hope. They also need for the countries that 
fund terrorist activities, chaos and mismanagement in 
Gaza to halt their unwelcome interference without any 
further delay.
When  I  visited  Gaza  I  was  struck  by  how  much 
people there rely on the efforts of the United Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East (UNRWA) — both to meet basic needs such 
as education and health care, but also to know that they 
are not forgotten. They are not forgotten by countries 
around the world. I am proud that Ireland is such a long-
standing  supporter  of  UNRWA,  not  just  in  Gaza  but 
in the West Bank and across the region in Jordan and 
Lebanon too. Ireland will continue that assistance and 
has increased its contribution to €7 million for this year. 
I hope that before the end of the year we will have added 
even more to that, recognizing the financial pressures.
I greatly regret the recent cuts to UNRWA funding 
announced by the United States, and I plead with those 
in power in that country to reconsider the consequences 
of  their  decisions  in  that  regard.  Reform  of  UNRWA 
may  be  needed,  but  surely  it  should  happen  in  the 
context  of  a  peace  deal  and  a  functioning  Palestinian 
State in the future. Shutting off funding now is simply 
adding to the turmoil of current pressures and hardship, 
where UNRWA cuts are interpreted — certainly locally, 
on  the  ground  —  as  collective  punishment  targeting 
women and children as well as men.
Is  it  so  hard  to  understand  that  increasing  the 
misery  of  Palestinians  only  empowers  the  radicals, 
who want to poison the minds of hopeless, angry, young 
Palestinians  and  destabilize  the  moderate  political 
leadership  who  are  committed  to  a  lasting  peace?  A 
people  who  have  been  downtrodden  for  decades  will 
not  be  forced  or  pressurized  into  negotiating  through 
enforced  hardship  or  humiliation  —  the  human  soul 
simply does not work that way. How many examples of 
that do we need in order to learn that lesson? Without 
hope  or  dignity,  minds  close  to  the  compromises  that 
we  all  know  are  necessary  for  a  final  settlement  and 
for peace.
I believe there is a way forward in the Middle East 
with  American  leadership,  but  also  with  the  support 
and  involvement  of  other  countries  that  can  help  to 
broker  a  peace  deal  between  an  Israel  that  justifiably 
demands security in any future deal and a Palestinian 
people  who  dream  of  their  own  country  and  State.  I 
know  that  Ireland  is  a  small  player  in  all  of  that,  but 
we will continue to advocate honestly for progress and 
justice as a friend of both Israel and Palestine.
Member  States  know  that  Ireland  is  a  proud  and 
ambitious candidate for a seat on the Security Council 
at the elections that will be held in June 2020. We have 
been making our case better known with States over the 
past months. My apologies if we have been overdoing 
it. We Irish are by nature bridge-builders and talkers, 
but we listen too — to all sides — and work to build 
collective  solutions  to  our  global  challenges.  We  are 
committed  to  hearing  and  heeding  the  voices  of  all 
States  to  forge  consensus  and  common  purpose.  We 
think independently. Our path is very much our own, 
and we bring no partisan agenda to the table. We are 
here to serve the wider good and to support the United 
Nations. We will always fight for a multilateral system 
that works for all, particularly the small and the weak. 
We  will  be  courageous  when  the  United  Nations  and 
all  of  its  Members  need  courage  and  leadership  from 
the  Security  Council.  Empathy,  partnership  and 
independence will guide us.
Ireland  is  a  small  country  with  a  broad  mind, 
a  listening  ear  and  a  strong  independent  voice  that 
promotes  the  values  that  I  hope  we  all  share  and  that 
can  take  this  institution  forward  with  confidence  and 
fairness in the future.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Adel Ahmed Al-Jubeir, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Mr.  Al-Jubeir  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  it  is  my  pleasure  to  congratulate  Her 
Excellency  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its  seventy-third  session.  I  wish  her  every  success  in 
her tasks. I also wish to congratulate her predecessor, 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  President  during  the  previous 
session, for his efforts. It would be remiss of me not to 
commend as well the tireless efforts undertaken by His 
30/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
Excellency  Mr.  António  Guterres,  Secretary-General 
of the United Nations,
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Yemen over the past 
four years amounts to more than $13 billion.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is founded on a great 
legacy of principles and constant elements that underpin 
its foreign policy, at the top of which is its permanent 
ambition to achieve peaceful solutions to conflicts, while 
preventing  their  escalation  by  undertaking  mediation 
efforts in order to achieve that noble objective. Perhaps 
the  best  illustration  of  the  responsible  political  role 
played by my country in the promotion of international 
peace  and  security  is  the  peace  agreement  concluded 
recently  in  the  city  of  Jeddah  between  Ethiopia  and 
Eritrea, under the auspices of the Custodian of the Two 
Holy Mosques, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud. 
The  agreement  brought  to  an  end  the  longest-lasting 
conflict on the African continent. Another illustration 
is  the  historic  meeting  held  under  the  auspices  of  my 
country  between  the  leaders  of  Eritrea  and  Djibouti 
after they had shunned all contacts with each other for 
10 years.
The  Palestinian  question  has  been  pivotal  for  my 
country  and  the  Islamic  world.  It  is  our  conviction 
that  the  Palestinian  people  have  the  right  to  build  an 
independent Palestinian State within the 1967 borders 
and  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  in  accordance 
with  international  resolutions  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative.  We  reiterate  our  call  to  redouble  sincere 
efforts aimed at ending that conflict, which has lasted 
longer than any other in the region.
The  Houthi  terrorist  militias  of  Iran  continue  to 
launch ballistic missiles manufactured and supplied by 
Iran towards Saudi cities — there have been 199 such 
missiles to date. Their activities seek to destabilize the 
safety and security of navigation in the Bab Al-Mandab 
region  and  the  Red  Sea.  My  country  reiterates  our 
commitment to the need for a political settlement to the 
situation in Yemen based on three terms of reference, 
namely,  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  Initiative,  the 
outcomes of the Yemeni National Dialogue Conference 
and Security Council resolution 2216 (2015).
We  will  continue  to  provide  and  facilitate  all 
humanitarian efforts to alleviate the disastrous situation 
facing  the  brotherly  Yemeni  people.  We  also  seek  to 
fully support the Yemeni economy, including through 
the  recent  deposit  of  $2  billion  in  the  Central  Bank 
of  Yemen,  which  was  ordered  by  His  Majesty  King 
Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Custodian of the Two 
Holy Mosques. The humanitarian support provided by 
Terrorism  and  extremism  are  two  of  the  major 
challenges  faced  by  the  whole  world.  Our  region  has 
not  been  spared  from  the  scourge  of  terrorist  groups. 
In  that  context,  we  reiterate  our  call  for  greater 
international  cooperation  to  end  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms, cut off its funding sources and punish those who 
support  terrorists  or  facilitate  their  activities  in  any 
way. The efforts of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to that 
end are clear to everyone. My country has established 
institutions to fight extremism and terrorism, namely, 
the  Global  Center  for  Combating  Extremist  Ideology, 
the  Islamic  Military  Counter  Terrorism  Coalition, 
made up of more than 40 States, and the International 
Centre for Counter-Terrorism, to which my country has 
contributed $110 million.
Iran continues its terrorist activities and aggressive 
behaviour.  The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  expresses 
its  support  for  the  new  United  States  strategy  for 
dealing with Iran, which includes seriously addressing 
its  nuclear  and  ballistic-missile  programmes  and  its 
support  for  terrorism.  Our  country  believes  that,  in 
order  to  achieve  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle 
East,  it  is  necessary  to  deter  Iran  from  exercising  its 
expansionist  and  subversive  policies.  Iran  has  formed 
armed terrorist militias and provided them with ballistic 
missiles.  It  has  conducted  assassinations  targeting 
diplomats  and  committed  acts  of  aggression  against 
diplomatic  missions.  In  addition,  Iran  has  stirred  up 
sectarian strife and interfered in the affairs of countries 
in  the  region.  Such  aggressive  behaviour  constitutes 
a  glaring  violation  of  all  international  covenants  and 
treaties, as well as Security Council resolutions. That is 
why Iran is under international sanctions.
Mr. Arrocha Ruíz (Panama), Vice-President, took 
the Chair.
As  part  of  our  resolute  and  continuous  efforts  to 
counter  terrorism,  my  country,  along  with  the  United 
Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of Bahrain and the Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt,  has  broken  off  all  contacts  with 
the  State  of  Qatar,  a  State  that  continues  to  support 
terrorism,  sponsor  extremists  and  spread  hateful 
rhetoric through its media, while failing to uphold its 
obligations  under  the  Riyadh  Agreement  of  2013  and 
Riyadh  Supplementary  Agreement  of  2014,  which  is 
unacceptable. Qatar has persisted in its practices, which 
has left us with no choice but to boycott it.
18-30110
31/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
In  the  eighth  year  of  the  Syrian  crisis,  the 
humanitarian situation requires all of us to shoulder our 
responsibilities. My country, from the very first day of 
the  outbreak  of  the  crisis,  has  sought  to  care  for  the 
Syrian people to help them realize their ambitions to live 
in safety on their own soil. In that regard, we reiterate 
the  need  to  implement  Security  Council  resolution 
2254 (2015) and reach a political solution in line with 
the  principles  of  the  Geneva  communiqué  (A/66/865, 
annex).  The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  has  worked  to 
unite  the  Syrian  opposition  groups  so  that  they  can 
negotiate with the regime and ensure Syria’s security, 
stability and unity and prevent foreign intervention or 
any attempt to partition the country.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia supports legitimacy 
in  Libya.  We  recall  the  importance  of  upholding  the 
Skhirat  Agreement  to  resolve  the  Libyan  crisis,  and 
call for maintaining the unity and territorial integrity 
of  Libya.  We  underscore  our  support  for  the  United 
Nations  efforts  and  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ghassan Salamé.
and  development 
My  country  is  among  the  leading  donors  of 
assistance.  The 
humanitarian 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has contributed 3.7 per cent 
of the Saudi gross domestic product, thereby surpassing 
the percentage called for by the United Nations, namely, 
0.7 per cent of gross domestic product.
The 
international  order 
that  has  existed  for 
centuries is based on the principle of respect for national 
sovereignty  and  non-interference  in  the  domestic 
affairs of other countries. Commitment to international 
norms and laws is of the utmost importance and is not 
up for discussion. Sovereignty is a red line that cannot 
be crossed. My country rejects any intervention in its 
domestic affairs and any form of dictate by any country.
The  Government  of  my  country,  with  the  firm 
support  of  His  Majesty  King  Salman  Bin  Abdulaziz 
Al-Saud,  Custodian  of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques, 
and  Crown  Prince  Mohammed  Bin  Salman  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al-Saud, has placed its people at the core of 
development. Based on the Kingdom’s Vision 2030, my 
country has opened doors for its citizens so that they 
can move towards the future, and has empowered young 
people and sought to benefit from their creative spirit. 
In addition, it has been employing modern technologies 
to serve development and make our country a leading 
environment for investment.
Women in my country have an active presence at 
all levels. Empowering women is a governmental goal 
so that they can have a full opportunity to contribute 
to development.
The  vocation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  is 
based  on  genuine  partnership  with  the  world,  leading 
to a prosperous present and a bright future. That would 
enable the next generations to live in security, stability 
and peace. We wish our Organization further success in 
achieving its lofty objectives.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Péter Szijjártó, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of Hungary.
Mr.  Szijjártó 
(Hungary):  History 
usually 
defines  certain  periods  by  the  major  developments 
and  phenomena  that  occur  during  that  period.  If  you 
pose  the  question  as  to  which  development  or  which 
phenomenon history will select to identify the current 
period that we have been living in, then the answer is 
pretty obvious. The huge migratory waves that we are 
experiencing  globally  are  how  history  will  identify 
our  current  era.  Those  huge  migratory  waves  impose 
a  significant  security  risk  almost  everywhere  in  the 
world.  They  have  destabilized  a  number  of  countries 
over the past years. They have caused serious political 
debates  globally.  They  bring  with  them  the  threat  of 
terror  and  its  consequences,  which  are  more  serious 
than ever — even in those parts of the world that have 
not  experienced  that  phenomenon  before.  Migratory 
waves  are  not  beneficial  for  anyone,  certainly  neither 
for  those  who  must  risk  their  lives  to  get  to  another 
place in the world nor for those countries that end up 
having to host a large number of people coming from 
different  cultures.  Those  huge  migratory  waves  lead 
only  to  the  creation  of  parallel  societies,  with  very 
serious security implications.
I  come  from  a  Central  European  country  whose 
territory  saw  400,000  illegal  migrants  march  through 
it in 2015. Those migrants violated our borders. They 
showed  disrespect  for  our  regulations,  our  culture 
and our way of life. The migrants attacked the police. 
They  rejected  any  kind  of  cooperation  with  the  local 
authorities.  They  occupied  public  areas.  And  they 
threatened people and families.
We  Hungarians  have  first-hand  experience  with 
illegal migration — we did not just see it on television 
or hear it from storytellers. We have first-hand, direct 
experience. Based on that, I can tell members that it is 
32/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
no wonder that there are big debates going on globally 
as  to  how  to  handle  that  phenomenon.  Unfortunately, 
I  have  to  tell  the  Assembly  that  the  European  Union 
(EU)  has  failed  to  find  an  answer  to  that  challenge. 
The European Union gave a very poor answer: instead 
of  concentrating  on  how  to  stop  migratory  flows,  the 
European  Union  concentrated  on  how  to  encourage 
and  manage  the  flows.  That  is  basically  a  policy  of 
invitation  and  encouragement  for  further  migratory 
waves to be launched.
As  Member  States  might  know,  the  European 
Union  wanted  to  introduce  a  system  of  obligatory 
quotas  to  distribute  migrants  among  the  EU  member 
States. Hungary is among those countries that rejected 
that approach and were subsequently blackmailed and 
punished. The European Union’s approach to tackling 
migration has turned out to be very unsuccessful and 
harmful. If we reflect on recent years in Europe, we see 
that there have been more than 30 major terrorist attacks 
committed  by  persons  with  a  migratory  background 
since 2015. More than 300 people were killed and more 
than  1,000  injured.  That  was  not  a  phenomenon  that 
Europe had previously experienced.
European  institutions  in  Brussels  kept  on  saying 
that  it  was  impossible  to  stop  migration,  but  that  is 
not  true.  The  truth  is  that  migratory  waves  can  be 
stopped  —  we  Hungarians  have  proved  it,  with  the 
assistance of several Central European countries, such 
as  the  Czech  Republic,  Slovakia  and  Poland.  We  are 
spending more than €1 billion to build a fence on our 
southern  border  and  have  placed  police  and  military 
officers there. We have proved that, yes, it is possible to 
stop the migratory waves, and it is possible to protect 
the borders of the countries I mentioned. Very recently, 
the Italian Minister of the Interior made an attempt to 
stop  migratory  waves  on  the  maritime  route.  Instead 
of  being  praised,  he  was  attacked  very  severely,  as 
Hungary has been.
Based  on 
the  experiences  of 
recent  years, 
international efforts should seek to stop the migratory 
flows and put an end to policies that encourage further 
migratory  waves.  They  are  harmful  and  must  be 
ended immediately. With respect to international law, 
international  organizations  should  make  it  very  clear 
that  migration  is  simply  not  a  fundamental  human 
right.  It  is  not  a  fundamental  human  right  to  pick  a 
country where one would like to live and, in order to 
get there, violate a series of borders and ignore national 
and international regulations. That is not a fundamental 
human right.
Unfortunately,  like  some  EU  officials,  United 
Nations  officials  have  suggested  a  false  context,  as  if 
migration  were  a  fundamental  human  right.  But  that 
is  not  true;  that  is  not  the  case.  Despite  recent  global 
events that have proved that migration is a dangerous 
and  unfavourable  phenomenon  that  poses  serious 
security  challenges  to  many  regions  of  the  world, 
United  Nations  officials  have  tended  to  speak  about 
migration  as  a  source  of  prosperity,  innovation  and 
global wealth. It is as though migration were the best 
thing  ever  that  happened  to  humankind;  but  that  is  a 
false and biased claim. That is why Hungary strongly 
opposes that position.
The  United  Nations  is  currently  preparing  to 
approve  the  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and 
regular migration. I can tell Member States that that is 
the worst possible thing that the United Nations could 
do  with  regard  to  responding  to  the  challenge  posed 
by  migration.  Unfortunately,  the  United  Nations  is 
preparing to commit the same kind of mistake as was 
committed  by  the  European  Union.  It  is  not  without 
good reason that the United States left the negotiation 
process at the very beginning and that the Hungarian 
Government  has  also  decided  to  disassociate  itself, 
because  we  do  not  accept  the  principle  of  the  global 
compact  on  migration.  We  do  not  accept  the  global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration itself, 
and we will not take part in the approval mechanism. 
As we have stated, we absolutely do not consider it to 
be an obligation.
The  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration 
is  a  strongly  biased,  unbalanced  and 
extremely  pro-migration  document.  That  is  why  it  is 
very dangerous and will cause much harm to the world 
by  encouraging  further  mass  and  illegal  migratory 
waves. We strongly disagree with the basic approach of 
the global compact on migration, which tries to portray 
migration  as  though  it  provided  a  definition  for  the 
future of our globalized world, making us all countries 
of  origin,  transit  and  destination.  Hungary  does  not 
want  to  be  any  of  those  three;  we  believe  exactly  the 
contrary, that the international community must respect 
the sovereignty of each country.
The international community must respect the right 
of  States  to  make  the  safety  and  security  of  its  own 
citizens  a  priority,  and  the  international  community 
18-30110
33/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
must  respect  the  right  of  countries  to  decide  whom 
they will and will not allow to enter their territory. All 
countries, all nations, have the right to decide with whom 
they  would  like  to  live.  The  international  community 
should — and must — support countries in safeguarding 
their historical, religious and cultural heritage, as well 
as their social structure. The international community 
clearly must not put pressure on any country to get rid 
of its values or heritage or to change such phenomena.
Unfortunately,  the  global  compact  on  migration 
suggests  that  migration  would  be  the  best  answer  to 
the  challenges  regarding  demography  and  the  labour 
market.  We  strongly  disagree  with  that.  We  believe 
the contrary — that the international community must 
respect the sovereign rights of every country to make its 
own  decisions  regarding  its  own  economic  and  social 
policy, which is supposed to be the most successful for 
that given country. The international community must 
respect  the  sovereign  right  of  a  country  to  control  its 
own policies with regard to labour market regulations, 
economic policies and addressing demographic trends.
The  global  compact  on  migration  suggests  that 
the  border  protection  measures  of  certain  countries 
should  be  judged  based  on  human  rights.  We  find 
that approach extremely dangerous and harmful. That 
is  why  we  strongly  reject  it.  We  believe  the  contrary. 
We believe that the protection of borders is a national 
security  issue  and  is  the  obligation  of  every  single 
country.  Let  me  underline  the  fact  that  every  State 
has the right and the responsibility to control its own 
border.  The  international  community  must  support 
every  State  in  successfully  carrying  out  its  border 
control  responsibilities.  The  international  community 
must make it clear that the illegal crossing of borders 
is  a  serious  criminal  offence.  We  must  terminate 
policies that either encourage or mitigate illegal border 
crossing and those who commit that offence. Crossing 
borders  should  be  possible  only  with  full  respect  for 
international and national regulations. The violation of 
such regulations must result in serious consequences.
The global compact on migration also suggests that, 
by definition, a multicultural society is more valuable or 
better than a homogeneous society. Again, we strongly 
reject that definition and approach because it must be 
left up to the decision of the respective nation whether it 
believes that a multicultural society or a homogeneous 
society is more valuable. We Hungarians do not think 
that our society would be less valuable or worse than 
any other society that considers itself multicultural.
However,  in  sum,  the  greatest  problem  is  that 
although  the  text  of  the  global  compact  on  migration 
states  that  the  compact  places  individuals  at  its  core, 
unfortunately,  that  is  not  true.  The  truth  is  that  the 
compact  takes  only  the  rights,  interests  and  well-
being of migrants into consideration and does not say 
anything about the already existing fundamental human 
rights of those who would like to live their lives in their 
homes in safe and secure circumstances. I would like 
to make it clear that Hungary bases its migration policy 
on  common  sense.  We  do  not  want  to  see  the  events 
of 2015 repeated in Hungary. For us, the security and 
safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people are the top 
priority — first and foremost, security.
We  continue  to  firmly  and  strictly  protect  our 
borders. We will not allow anyone to enter the territory 
of Hungary illegally. Instead of considering migration, 
we will continuously modernize our education system 
and help families to be able to raise more children in 
order to address the challenges of the labour market and 
demography in the meantime. We will preserve Hungary 
as a Hungarian country that is proud of its history and 
heritage. We urge the international community not to 
encourage further migratory waves to be launched but 
to stop the migratory flows now.
The international community must recognize that 
every person has the right to live in his or her homeland 
in peace and security. If that is not possible, we must 
help them to live in a dignified manner as close to their 
homes as possible until they can return there. Instead of 
suggesting that people risk their lives by taking to the 
road, pay millions of euros for the services of smuggling 
networks and leave their homes, we should bring help 
to  where  it  is  needed.  Hungary  helps  the  Christian 
communities  in  the  Middle  East.  We  spend  many 
millions  of  euros  on  reconstructing  houses  that  have 
been torn down, building schools, covering the medical 
expenditure  of  hospitals  and  giving  scholarships  to 
youngsters  in  the  region.  Church  leaders  from  the 
Middle East usually ask us not to encourage members 
of  their  communities  to  leave  but  to  help  them  to  be 
able  to  stay  where  their  communities  have  lived  for 
centuries, or at least a long time.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  inform 
representatives  that  Hungary  will  not  support  the 
adoption  of  the  global  compact  on  migration  because 
it is not in the national interest of our country. We will 
never  give  up  our  sovereign  right,  namely,  that  it  is 
exclusively  the  Hungarian  people  who  have  the  right 
34/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
to  make  a  decision  about  the  future  of  Hungary,  our 
country. We will always adhere to that right of ours.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Gilles Tonelli, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Monaco.
Mr.  Tonelli  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  In 
February,  President  Espinosa  Garcés  presented  her 
strategic  vision  for  the  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General  Assembly:  “Dialogue  and  strengthening  of 
multilateralism  as  a  catalyst  for  the  well-being  of 
all  persons  and  a  sustainable  planet”.  We  welcome 
her  commitment  to  the  theme  “Making  the  United 
Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and 
shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable societies”.
The delegation of Monaco will support her so that, 
together, we can contribute to aligning our institutions 
with  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  to  ensure 
that  the  high-level  political  forum  that  we  will  hold 
here  next  year  delivers  the  necessary  adjustments 
for  the  full  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development.
Dialogue and the promotion of multilateralism with 
a  human  face  were  also  priorities  of  her  predecessor, 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák.  Under  his  presidency, 
the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-second 
session  facilitated  the  vital  progress  necessary  for 
United  Nations  decisions  to  remain  relevant.  I  would 
particularly like to emphasize the repositioning of the 
United Nations system for development as well as the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, 
which  is  to  be  formally  adopted  in  Marrakech  in 
December.  We  warmly  thank  him  for  having  always 
listened to our representatives and for having prioritized 
the  common  interest,  which  is  the  guarantor  for  the 
success of multilateralism.
As  the  General  Assembly  commemorates  the 
seventieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  on  10  December,  how 
can we not recall the fact that, as the Preamble to the 
Charter of the United Nations states, the reason that we, 
nations  great  and  small,  have  committed  to  working 
together  is  “for  the  promotion  of  the  economic  and 
social advancement of all peoples”?
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
President Bachelet for having rightly taken up the torch 
of Prince Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein as United Nations High 
Commissioner for Human Rights. We assure her of our 
support and congratulate Prince Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein 
on  never  having  avoided  difficulties  and  on  having 
assiduously championed the defence of human rights.
The  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  have 
continuously  adapted  to  the  new  challenges  posed  by 
violence,  conflict,  transnational  organized  crime  and 
the  global  scourge  of  terrorism.  When  the  Security 
Council acts, it does so to ensure on behalf of all States 
international  security  and  the  protection  of  civilians. 
When the Council is prevented from acting, civilians, 
in particular women and children, pay an even higher 
price.  In  that  regard,  can  we  ignore  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/72/865),  which  notes 
its 
paragraph  5  that  in  2017,  armed  conflicts  resulted  in 
6,000  proven  cases  of  violations  committed  against 
children by Government forces and more than 15,000 by 
non-State armed groups? That is why Monaco supported 
the code of conduct regarding Security Council action 
against mass atrocity crimes at the seventieth session of 
the General Assembly.
in 
In that spirit, we strongly condemn attacks against 
schools  and  hospitals,  sexual  violence  and  the  denial 
of  access  to  humanitarian  aid.  We  firmly  believe  in 
the role of women in peace processes. We support the 
involvement  of  young  people  in  the  prevention  and 
resolution of conflicts. In that understanding, Monaco 
supports Security Council resolutions on such issues.
As the Monaco Red Cross celebrates its seventieth 
anniversary  this  year,  I  would  like  to  recall  the 
Principality’s  commitment  to  strengthening  respect 
for  international  humanitarian  law.  We  also  take  this 
opportunity to pay tribute to all the men and women who 
have dedicated their lives to the Organization, tirelessly 
working to ensure that United Nations values prevail, 
and  to  the  peacekeepers  and  United  Nations  officials 
who have died in the discharge of their mission.
Our country strongly supports the appointment by 
the Secretary-General of a Victims’ Rights Advocate, 
entrusted  with  placing  rights  and  dignity  at  the  heart 
of  the  Organization’s  efforts  and  the  zero-tolerance 
policy  towards  sexual  harassment.  We  also  hope  that 
the principle of the responsibility to protect, contained 
in the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1), 
will at last be acknowledged and harnessed as a tool for 
progress accepted by all.
Since  joining  the  United  Nations,  Monaco  has 
legal  arsenal.  Over 
significantly  strengthened 
its 
18-30110
35/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
the  past  25  years,  Monaco  has  ratified,  adhered  to  or 
accepted more than 40 international treaties on human 
rights,  refugees,  privileges  and  immunities,  criminal 
issues,  disarmament,  the  environment  and  the  law  of 
the sea and has signed eight such treaties.
Even if today less than 10 per cent of the world’s 
population  lives  below  the  poverty  line,  the  fact  is 
that  millions  of  human  beings,  including  women  and 
children, still live below that threshold and consequently 
are  without  access  to  education,  health  care,  decent 
housing and work and opportunities for economic and 
social development.
In a world where artificial intelligence is developing 
and  where  genetic  engineering  and  cyberspace  are 
realities  for  many  of  us,  how  can  we  disregard  the 
fact  that  more  than  68  million  people  were  forcibly 
displaced  in  2017  and  that  the  United  Nations  has 
delivered assistance to a record number of 105 million 
people in 40 countries? Is it acceptable that three out 
of 10 people do not have access to safe drinking water 
and six out of 10 to sanitation? The Central Emergency 
Response Fund, to which the Principality contributes, 
has also funded emergency assistance in 36 countries 
to the tune of $418 million.
As  we  know,  the  many  crises  and  challenges  that 
I  have  mentioned  are  interlinked.  In  that  spirit,  we 
adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
(resolution  70/1).  However,  what  is  the  paramount 
challenge  facing  our  human  societies  today?  It  is 
clearly that of climate change. Its systemic effects spare 
no  region  of  the  world  and  equally  are  factors  in  the 
geopolitical  upheaval  that  exacerbates  the  inequality 
and conflict that daily we strive to combat in this forum. 
Today, if we do not act ambitiously and effectively to 
combat that scourge, tomorrow we will have to be ready 
to  live  on  a  devastated  planet,  where  it  will  be  very 
difficult to maintain peace.
therefore  endorse 
the  Secretary-General’s 
call,  issued  earlier  this  month,  to  end  the  paralysis, 
indifference  and  weak  commitments  to  the  challenge 
of  climate  change.  Today,  the  term  “crisis”  is  nearly 
obsolete.  As  Mr.  Guterres  recalled,  to  prevent  the 
worst, we must change course by 2020. That is why it 
is imperative that the negotiations of the twenty-fourth 
session of the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
to be held in Katowice, result in the adoption of rules 
I 
allowing for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
For future generations, we must rise to that challenge.
Monaco is no exception to that framework. At the 
national level, the energy transition pact, launched at the 
beginning of the year, is ambitious and seeks to achieve 
the  goal  set  by  His  Serene  Highness  Prince  Albert  II 
of  achieving  carbon  neutrality  by  2050  following  a 
50  per  cent  reduction  in  greenhouse  gases  by  2030. 
That initiative represents a new concrete action by the 
Royal  Government  in  order  to  meet  the  objectives  of 
the Paris Agreement. The pact is a partnership among 
all  elements  of  society  and  demonstrates  the  will  of 
the  Sovereign  Prince  for  Monaco  to  remain  a  land  of 
innovation, all the more so if that is likely to accelerate 
the transition to a carbon-free world.
In that regard, we also welcomed with the keenest 
interest the Secretary-General’s intention to convene a 
climate  summit  in  2019.  A  few  days  before,  Monaco 
will  have  hosted  a  meeting  of  the  Intergovernmental 
Panel  on  Climate  Change  with  a  view  to  issuing 
the  special  report  on  the  ocean  and  cryosphere  in  a 
changing climate.
The  maxim  that  there  is  no  development  without 
peace  and  no  peace  without  development  has 
continuously guided our work since the Earth Summit 
in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. However, progress is uneven 
and sometimes too slow to ensure that all the goals and 
targets will be met by 2030. That necessary adaptation 
to  the  challenges  of  implementing  the  2030  Agenda 
is  an  important  step  towards  initiating  a  paradigm 
shift  that  will  bring  more  coherence,  efficiency  and 
visibility to the work of our Organization, even though 
it is of course the primary duty of each Member State 
to remain mobilized.
Our  cooperation  with 
In that regard, Monaco also prioritizes partnerships 
in its international cooperation given the long-standing 
evidence.  We  can  achieve  our  united  actions  only  by 
leveraging best practices and by constantly reviewing 
the technical opportunities based on our past experience.
local  non-governmental 
organizations  in  partner  countries  is  based  on  trust 
and  human  involvement.  The  size  of  our  territory 
has  naturally  led  us  to  look  towards  others.  Trust  in 
the  links  established  with  Monaco’s  11  international 
cooperation  partnership  countries  makes  it  possible 
to  support  exclusively  through  grants  more  than  130 
projects  a  year  in  priority  sectors,  namely,  education, 
health,  food  security  and  socioeconomic  integration. 
36/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
The  Principality  remains  a  committed  and  resolute 
partner in doing its part to make the new paradigm of 
sustainable development a reality for all.
competition.  Our  most  urgent  global  challenges  will 
not be solved by countries acting alone; solutions begin 
with collaboration.
Our  faith  in  multilateralism  is  anchored  in  the 
reality of a world of evolving threats. The Principality 
of Monaco shoulders its responsibility by implementing 
the  principle  of  one  State,  one  vote  enshrined  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Monaco  is  convinced 
that  the  United  Nations  alone  remains  a  centre  for 
harmonizing  the  actions  of  nations  towards  shared 
goals. The authors of the Charter were visionaries. Like 
them,  we  must  constantly  renew  our  commitment  to 
saving succeeding generations from the scourge of war.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  quote  Seneca,  who 
said: “It is not because things are difficult that we do 
not  dare;  it  is  because  we  do  not  dare  that  they  are 
difficult.” Given the proliferation of challenges, let us 
dare  to  stand  closer  together.  Even  if  not  everything 
will  be  resolved  in  an  easily  measurable  time  frame, 
let us promote understanding among people and respect 
for  our  differences.  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not 
reiterate our full trust in Mr. António Guterres and his 
transformative initiatives, which will make the United 
Nations better suited and more likely to effectively and 
efficiently meet the challenges of tomorrow.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
call on Her Excellency Ms. Marise Payne, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Commonwealth of Australia.
Ms. Payne (Australia): We are all proud members 
of  this  venerable  institution.  If  this  place  and  our 
membership in it stand for anything, then we stand for 
an international order based on rules and cooperation. 
That  principle  guides  our  actions,  our  dealings  with 
each other, and our treatment of collective challenges 
as they arise before us. Australia recognizes the reality 
of  a  world  in  which  the  power  of  great  States  shapes 
the international system in which we seek to advance 
our national interests. That is the grain with which we 
all work.
true 
to 
We  also  hold 
the  following  simple 
proposition  —  we  will  be  safer  and  more  prosperous 
in  a  world  where  global  differences  are  managed  and 
global  challenges  met  by  agreed  rules  rather  than  by 
the exercise of power alone. Strong global cooperation 
sets  a  tone  and  sets  in  place  rules  and  norms  for 
constructive  diplomacy  in  every  region  of  the  world. 
That is true even in a period of rapid and accelerating 
change  and  of  rising  nationalism  and  geopolitical 
In  Australia’s  2017  Foreign  Policy  White  Paper, 
we  set  out  an  analysis  of  the  trends  that  are  shaping 
the  world.  Most  importantly,  we  set  out  our  policy 
response.  In  a  very  competitive  and  contested  era, 
Australia  is  taking  responsibility  for  its  own  security 
and  prosperity.  At  home,  we  are  investing  in  our 
national  resilience  and  strength,  ensuring  that  our 
economy is strong and that Australians are safe. We are 
sovereign and independent. In our region — the Indo-
Pacific — we seek a neighbourhood in which the rights 
of all States are respected, and in which adherence to 
rules  delivers  lasting  peace.  Internationally,  we  are 
committed  to  promoting  and  protecting  the  rules  and 
institutions  that  support  stability  and  prosperity,  and 
enable collective action to meet global challenges.
At this time of change, challenge and opportunity, 
we representatives of Member States have the honour of 
preserving and advancing international rules and order 
so as to deliver on the expectations of our people for a 
just, fair and secure world. One proof of the necessity of 
the United Nations is the hard fact that we cannot, with 
all confidence, rid the world of nuclear weapons — not 
today or this year.
Given  that  reality,  we  must  redouble  our  efforts 
to  prevent  nuclear  proliferation  and  to  build  the 
international  trust  and  confidence  necessary  to  move 
towards a world free of nuclear weapons. Our peoples 
expect us to continue to work towards verifiable nuclear 
disarmament  with  sound  compliance,  safeguards  and 
enforcement  regimes.  Overwhelmingly,  our  peoples 
expect  us  to  prevent  further  proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons.  To  do  that,  we  must  continue  to  build  on 
the progress we have made through the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
For  that  reason,  Australia  supports  the  Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on  Iran’s  nuclear 
programme, as long as Iran abides by its commitments. 
It  is  in  our  collective  interest  that  controls  on  Iran’s 
nuclear  programme  remain  in  place.  And  for  that 
reason, 
the 
negotiations between the United States and North Korea, 
pursuing  the  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible 
denuclearization of the peninsula, in accordance with 
United Nations resolutions.
the  world  watches  with  anticipation 
18-30110
37/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
Australia  will  also  continue  to  fully  implement 
our  obligations  under  Security  Council  resolutions 
and  maintain  our  own  autonomous  sanctions,  while 
awaiting  real  progress  towards  denuclearization.  In 
addition,  we  have  most  recently  witnessed  a  new 
pattern  of  indiscriminate  slaughter  through  the  use 
of  chemical  weapons,  including  the  weaponization  of 
toxic  industrial  chemicals  such  as    chlorine.  We  have 
collectively  agreed  that  the  use  of  chemical  weapons 
anytime,  anywhere  and  under  any  circumstances  is 
unjustifiable and unacceptable.
As  Member  States,  we  must  defend  our  long-
standing prohibition on the use of chemical weapons and 
be prepared to abide by our collective right and resolve 
to investigate allegations and to verify compliance with 
that prohibition. Australia joins those calling for Syria 
to cease the use of chemicals as weapons. Australia also 
continues to urge Russia and all nations to reinforce the 
prohibition on the use of chemical weapons anywhere.
Australia, like the United Nations, is committed to 
improving humanitarian assistance in fragile settings. 
I commend the Secretary-General for establishing the 
United  for  Gender  Parity  initiative,  and  for  declaring 
zero  tolerance  for  sexual  exploitation  and  abuse. 
Australia  is  also  a  robust  and  strong  contributor  to 
the  Organization’s  women  and  peace  and  security 
agenda, first set out in Security Council resolution 1325 
(2000).  Australia  was  one  of  the  first  Member  States 
to draw up a national action plan on women and peace 
and security, and we are continuing work on our next 
five-year national action plan.
Examples  of  our  work  on  that  issue  include  a 
benchmark  of  a  minimum  of  15  per  cent  of  female 
military members deployed on Australian peacekeeping 
mission teams, which I was proud to support over the 
past  three  years  in  my  previous  role  as  Australia’s 
Minister for Defence. Australia also has active training 
programmes  on  women  and  peace  and  security  in 
Afghanistan,  Iraq  and  the  Philippines,  where  our 
military is assisting partner forces to deal with counter-
terrorism and counter-insurgency challenges.
Australia firmly believes that it is only through the 
inclusion of women in all aspects of peace and security 
initiatives, including negotiations, the design of peace 
processes  and  the  management  and  enforcement  of 
peace  programmes,  that  lasting  and  resilient  security 
can be achieved.
Many  here  will  remember  my  predecessor  and 
friend  Julie  Bishop’s  determined  and  sustained  work 
pursuing  accountability  for  the  downing  of  Malaysia 
Airlines  flight  MH-17.  Australia  remains  resolutely 
committed  to  that  objective,  and  we  will  continue 
working with our Joint Investigation Team partners to 
pursue justice for the victims and their loved ones.
initiated  under 
In  expecting  other  Member  States  to  abide  by 
international  rules,  we  must  also  subject  ourselves  to 
those  same  standards  and  expectations.  On  6  March, 
here  in  New  York,  Australia  and  Timor-Leste  signed 
a  new  maritime  boundaries  treaty.  The  treaty  was 
the  successful  result  of  the  first-ever  compulsory 
conciliation 
the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  It  underscores 
Australia’s  commitment  to  international  law  and  is 
a  testament  to  the  way  in  which  international  law, 
in  particular  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea,  enables  countries  to  resolve  disputes 
peacefully  and  properly,  abiding  by  the  rules.  The 
conciliation process created the space for compromise 
and negotiation on what I acknowledge was a previously 
intractable  disagreement,  and  ultimately  strengthened 
bilateral relations.
When  Member  States  work  together  to  uphold 
international  law  and  the  institutions  that  support  it, 
the benefits accrue to all alike — the powerful and the 
weak, the large and the small. That is a long-standing 
principle  that  all  we  share,  regardless  of  our  culture, 
language, religion or political system. We are all equal 
before the law.
the 
Australia  particularly  welcomes 
active 
engagement  of  the  United  Nations  in  our  region,  the 
Indo-Pacific.  It  is  a  dynamic  region  that  in  recent 
decades  has  experienced  an  economic  transformation 
that  is  unprecedented  in  human  history.  The  region’s 
rising prosperity has been built on a strong foundation of 
stability. Australia is absolutely committed to ensuring 
that  the  fundamental  principles  that  have  enabled  the 
region’s success are maintained.
We are committed to a region in which the rights 
of  all  States  are  respected,  where  there  is  respect  for 
international law and other norms, where disputes are 
resolved peacefully, and where open markets facilitate 
the  free  flow  of  trade,  capital  and  ideas.  In  order  to 
achieve those outcomes, Australia is strengthening its 
Indo-Pacific bilateral relations, because they are among 
our most important in their own right and because strong 
38/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
bilateral  relations  help  us  support  our  regional  goals. 
Our aid programme is an important mechanism through 
which we support the aspirations of our neighbours. It is 
predominately and unashamedly focused on the Indo-
Pacific  region,  and  geared  to  expand  opportunities 
for  people,  businesses  and  communities  to  promote 
economic growth and further reduce regional poverty.
We  work  in  sectors  that  drive  economic  growth 
and  human  development,  including  aid  for  trade, 
infrastructure, 
the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls.  And  we  work  in 
ways  that  are  most  effective,  including  with  United 
Nations resident coordinators, and through the region’s 
political, security and economic architecture.
and  health, 
education 
and 
The  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  sits  at  the  heart  of  our  region.  It  is  the 
collective  voice  of  South-East  Asia.  There  are  good 
reasons  why  Australia  is  ASEAN’s  longest-standing 
dialogue  partner.  We  are  both  committed  to  driving 
continued  strong  regional  economic  growth,  and  we 
share  optimism  for  the  future.  At  the  same  time,  we 
share  a  conviction  of  the  need  to  tackle  head-on  the 
security  challenges  of  our  region,  including  the  fight 
against  terrorism.  As  the  convener  for  more  than  50 
years  of  the  Indo-Pacific’s  most  important  diplomatic 
architecture, particularly the East Asia Summit, ASEAN 
plays a vital role in the security, stability and prosperity 
of the Indo-Pacific region. Australia’s interests are well 
served by ASEAN, and our commitment to its continued 
effectiveness and success is stronger than ever.
That  commitment  was  there  for  all  to  see  at  the 
ASEAN-Australia  Special  Summit,  held  in  Sydney  in 
March. The Summit marked a new era in the strategic 
partnership  between  ASEAN  and  Australia.  Leaders 
issued the Sydney Declaration, which comprehensively 
sets  out  ASEAN  and  Australia’s  shared  commitment 
to  working  together  towards  a  more  secure  and 
prosperous region.
In  other  key  pieces  of  regional  architecture,  the 
Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  forum seeks  to 
build  upon  the  growing  interdependence  of  the  Asia-
Pacific’s  21  member  economies.  The  Asia-Pacific 
Economic  Cooperation  forum  meeting 
in  Papua 
New  Guinea  in  November  will  provide  an  important 
opportunity to foster cooperation and economic activity 
across borders to the mutual benefit of all. I commend 
Papua New Guinea for the significant work that it has 
done  to  host  the  2018  forum,  and  I  look  forward  in 
particular to a very successful Leaders’ Week in Port 
Moresby later this year.
I also commend our Pacific neighbour, the Republic 
of Nauru, for its successful hosting of the 49th Pacific 
Islands  Forum  in  the  first  week  of  September.  With 
the  theme  of  “Building  a  strong  Pacific:  our  islands, 
our  people,  our  will”,  the  member  States,  associate 
members, observers and dialogue partners of the Pacific 
Islands  Forum continued  the  long  tradition  of  amity, 
consultation,  partnership  and  policy  development  on 
diverse  matters  such  as  climate  change,  economic 
reform, transport and trade.
Australia  is  committed  to  working  with  States 
members  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  and  United 
Nations  resident  coordinators  to  strengthen  resilience 
to climate change and natural disasters in the Pacific. 
The  United  Nations  Development  Programme  is  a 
vital  partner  in  that  effort.  Australia  recognizes  that 
Pacific  island  countries  are  particularly  vulnerable  to 
the effects of climate change and disaster, and that that 
problem is a leading priority for the region. The Pacific 
Islands Forum Boe Declaration, released last month at 
the  meeting  by  member  States,  takes  a  contemporary 
view of security, inclusive of human and environmental 
security,  and  emphasizes  the  importance  of  regional 
cooperation and collaboration in building resilience to 
disasters and climate change.
In  2018,  Australia  joined  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  first  time.  In  the  Council  Australia 
works for and seeks to develop a region that promotes 
accountability  and  respects  international  law  for  the 
benefit of all — nations and people. Australia has been 
a  strong  supporter  of  the  Independent  International 
Fact-finding  Mission  on  Myanmar,  and  we  have  been 
deeply  disturbed  by  its  findings.  We  are  working 
with  Myanmar  and  with  ASEAN  and  regional  and 
international  partners  to  find  long-term  solutions 
to  that  complex  crisis,  including  with  Indonesia 
as  co-chairs  of  the  Bali  Process  and  through  joint 
humanitarian  efforts  in  Cox’s  Bazar.  Australia  will 
continue  to  work  with  the  Myanmar  Government  and 
the international community to achieve a long-term and 
durable  resolution  of  Myanmar’s  complex  problems. 
After  50  years  of  isolation  and  instability,  Myanmar 
is  at  a  critical  stage  in  its  democratic  and  economic 
transition,  and  it  is  in  all  our  interests  to  ensure  that 
it  succeeds.  Let  us  honour  the  late  former  Secretary-
General,  Kofi  Annan,  by  renewing  our  efforts  to  see 
fully and genuinely implemented the recommendations 
18-30110
39/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
of the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State, which 
he so ably led.
the  Astana  process  to  strengthen  confidence-building 
measures among the conflicting parties in Syria.
International  institutions,  and  the  United  Nations 
in particular, help us to adapt collectively as our world 
changes around us. But as Secretary-General Guterres 
noted  when  he  opened  the  General  Assembly  earlier 
this week:
“[t]rust  in  global  governance  is  also  fragile,  as 
twenty-first-century challenges outpace twentieth-
century institutions and mindsets” (A/73/PV.6, p.1).
That  is  why  Australia  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s  efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations.  We 
need  to  work  together  to  keep  pace  with  the  needs 
and aspirations of the people we serve. But in order to 
remain fit for our times, the United Nations must remain 
true to the founding principles, the universal rights and 
obligations  that  we  agreed  upon  when  we  first  came 
together  as  Member  States.  Chief  among  them  is  the 
sovereign  equality  of  all  States.  Member  States  must 
rededicate themselves to the aspirations of the founders 
of the Organization and take to heart the Charter of the 
United Nations, so that our world can indeed be a more 
just, fair and secure place to live.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Kairat Abdrakhmanov, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr.  Abdrakhmanov  (Kazakhstan):  This  year,  as 
we commemorate the 100th anniversary of the birth of 
one of the greatest sons of humankind, the late Nelson 
Mandela,  I  would  like  to  begin  my  statement  with  a 
quote of his: “It is so easy to break down and destroy. 
The heroes are those who make peace and build”.
We  have  approached  the  seventy-third  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  with  an  increased  number  of 
problems compared with last year, including a lack of 
trust and mutual respect. We find ourselves in a state of 
profound worldwide crisis that touches every aspect of 
the life of each and every person in our interconnected 
and  rapidly  accelerating  world.  Millions  of  people 
live  under  the  shadow  of  dreadful  wars,  such  as  in 
Syria,  Yemen  and  many  other  corners  of  the  globe. 
Kazakhstan  believes  that  war  can  never  be  a  lasting 
solution to any problem.
Based on that conviction and sharing the belief that 
the only viable solution to the current crisis in Syria is an 
inclusive and Syrian-led political process, we launched 
Our  far-reaching  commitment  is  embodied  in 
the  2016  anti-war  manifesto,  entitled  The  World. 
21st  Century,  by  Kazakhstan’s  President,  Nursultan 
Nazarbayev,  who  stated  in  that  treatise  that  the  main 
tool  for  resolving  all  disputes  between  States  should 
be peaceful dialogue and constructive negotiations on 
the basis of equal responsibility for peace and security, 
mutual respect and non-interference in domestic affairs. 
It is a road map for peace, and it calls for the effective 
use of all tools available — from early warning, conflict 
prevention,  diplomacy  and  mediation,  peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding to sustainable development.
At a time of crisis, we believe that it is of the utmost 
importance for the United Nations to stay close to the 
people around the world and to ensure that no one is left 
behind. We have to overcome differences and reaffirm 
our shared commitments to the values enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations.
My country has become a net contributor to peace, 
security and stability, as well as to economic and social 
development,  not  only  in  our  region  but  far  beyond. 
We have carefully preserved peace and harmony in our 
multi-ethnic  and  multireligious  society  by  stressing 
and enforcing the equality and dignity of every citizen. 
We have achieved that while also creating an effective 
economic model — our economy has grown more than 
20 times from the day that my country emerged as an 
independent State.
Looking forward, Kazakhstan has a clear vision for 
its  future  development.  By  2050,  we  seek  to  become 
one  of  the  top  30  most  advanced  economies  in  the 
world,  meeting  the  highest  global  standards  in  terms 
of economic performance and transparent governance, 
especially the demanding standards of the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development.
As  a  new  model  of  economic  growth,  President 
Nazarbayev announced his plan in his annual address 
earlier this year, called “New development opportunities 
under  the  fourth  industrial  revolution”.  It  outlines 
the path for our country to follow in order to achieve 
those  ambitious  goals.  That  new  road  map  focuses 
on  industrialization,  the  further  development  of  our 
resource potential, the use of smart technologies, which 
provide a chance for a breakthrough in the development 
of  our  agricultural  industry,  increasing  the  efficiency 
of  transport  and  logistics  infrastructure,  relaunching 
40/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
the  financial  sector,  and  strengthening  human  capital 
as the basis of modernization.
At  the  global  level  President  Nazarbayev  has  put 
forward  the  G-Global  initiative,  an  information  and 
technology (ICT) platform aimed at ensuring wide and 
inclusive dialogue on the need to find common solutions 
for  global  economic  and  financial  shortcomings.  The 
platform  unites  prominent  international  scientists, 
entrepreneurs and politicians.
In the regional context, we are committed to further 
extending our partnership with Central Asian countries 
and to enhancing our common capability to withstand 
threats  and  challenges.  Today  in  Central  Asia  a  new 
reality  has  been  formed.  We  consider  the  political, 
economic  and  cultural  potential  of  the  region  to  be  a 
common resource, the most rational and effective use 
of which is achievable only in a collective format.
Our shared goal is to create a model for a zone of 
peace, security, trust, development and cooperation in 
our region of Central Asia and beyond. Several features 
of such a zone are already in place, as exemplified by 
the  Cooperation  Council  of  Turkic-speaking  States, 
the  International  Fund  for  Saving  the  Aral  Sea  and 
the  latest  Summit  of  that  Fund,  which  demonstrated 
strong  political  collaboration  among  regional  leaders 
on  subjects  including  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-
weapon-free zone in Central Asia and other mechanisms.
Being  the  first  country  from  the  region  to  be 
represented on the Security Council, we have deepened 
our focus on the situation in Afghanistan with its full 
implications and threats in the broader regional context. 
Moreover, Kazakhstan has for many years contributed 
significantly to peace in and the rehabilitation of that 
country. We believe that the revival of that country as a 
prosperous and peaceful neighbour will have a positive 
impact on overall security in our region. A special role 
in that process should be played by Afghan women.
In  order  to  increase  international  awareness  and 
support  for  the  needs  of  Afghan  women  and  girls, 
we  hosted  the  Regional  Conference  on  Empowering 
Women  in  Afghanistan  in  September  in  Astana.  It 
was  attended  by  female  politicians,  parliamentarians, 
entrepreneurs 
from 
Afghanistan  and  the  Eurasian  region.  The  event  gave 
great  impetus  to  strengthening  the  role  of  women, 
not  only  in  Afghanistan  but  in  the  whole  region  of 
Central Asia, thereby helping to improve their lives and 
influence their futures.
civil-society  members 
and 
New globalization trends have revealed cross-border 
threats and challenges, which requires a new paradigm 
to  address  them.  Those  transnational  challenges  are 
specific, but common to particular regions, especially 
conflict-prone  ones,  and  they  necessitate  a  transition 
from a country-specific to a regional strategy to tackle 
them.  A  regional  strategy  becomes  effective  with  the 
whole-of-system coordination of the activities of United 
Nations structures region-wide.
As  a  pilot  case,  we  offer  the  establishment  of 
a  United  Nations  regional  hub  for  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  in  Almaty,  our  southern 
capital.  The  city  already  hosts  more  than    a  dozen 
United Nations offices with regional, subregional and 
multi-country  mandates.  That  solid  United  Nations 
field presence has successfully promoted the SDGs in 
our region for years, and I am happy to announce that, 
as a host country, we will provide those offices with a 
state-of-the-art, fully equipped and furnished building, 
specifically  designated  and  designed  as  per  United 
Nations and international requirements, by the end of 
the year.
As an example of regional cooperation, I would also 
like to outline the results of the Caspian Summit held a 
month ago in the city of Aktau, in western Kazakhstan. 
We  all  are  extremely  satisfied  and  proud  that  the 
long-awaited legal status of the Caspian Sea has been 
agreed on and determined by the five littoral countries. 
The  treaty  creates  a  solid  legal  basis  for  further 
comprehensive  interaction  among  all  the  Caspian 
States, strengthening regional security and stability, as 
well as the efficient use of sea resources. I would like 
to emphasize that the Caspian Sea has become an area 
of peace, harmony, good-neighbourliness and enhanced 
international cooperation.
Today,  the  ability  of  countries  to  show  global 
leadership  and  responsibility  is  being  challenged  by 
numerous threats — from the spread of both conventional 
weapons  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  (WMDs), 
terrorism, extremism, organized crime and all forms of 
trafficking, to food, water, energy and health insecurity 
the violation of human rights, particularly the rights of 
women,  youth  and  children,  which  degrades  human 
dignity, and the lack of respect and justice for all.
Kazakhstan is trying its best to stay in the vanguard 
of efforts to tackle those international challenges and 
to seek innovative solutions to them. We fully support 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to  implement  his 
18-30110
41/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
reforms of the peace and security architecture and the 
United Nations development system and management. 
We will contribute to improving shared responsibility 
for,  transparency  and  the  overall  coordination  of  all 
United Nations bodies with a view to achieving those 
goals. We are engaged in reforming the methods of work 
of the Security Council so as to enhance its relevance, 
transparency,  accountability  and  effective  capacity  to 
respond speedily to varying crises.
Kazakhstan  remains  committed  to  strengthening 
peacekeeping  by  ensuring  clear  and  achievable 
mandates,  highly  qualified  personnel  and  adequate 
resources. We will increase our contribution to United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  through  innovative 
forms  of  partnerships,  including  co-deployment.  We 
will  deploy  a  unit  and  additional  officers  to  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions  during  this  seventy-
third session and expand their number in future.
Being fully supportive of the concept of preventive 
diplomacy, conflict prevention and confidence-building, 
the  President  of  Kazakhstan  initiated  the  creation  of 
the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive 
Diplomacy for Central Asia, as well as the Conference 
on  Interaction  and  Confidence-building  Measures  in 
Asia, which comprises 27 countries, spanning from the 
Middle to the Far East and South-East Asia.
My country has proved itself to be a moral leader 
in  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation,  after 
having  renounced  the  world’s  fourth-largest  nuclear 
arsenal  and  the  world’s  largest  nuclear  test  site,  in 
Semipalatinsk.  We  call  upon  all  other  countries  to 
follow our example, as nuclear weapons do not ensure 
either real power or true protection. Protection comes 
from trust in the international community.
Kazakhstan  signed  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition 
of Nuclear Weapons on 2 March, following its engaged 
participation  in  the  elaboration  and  adoption  of  the 
Treaty. We are now processing its ratification. The early 
entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty remains a key goal for us. Our country, one 
of the most impacted by the harmful consequences of 
nuclear tests, is making great efforts to bring the world 
to global zero. We therefore sponsored resolution 64/35, 
which established the International Day against Nuclear 
Tests.  Three  weeks  ago,  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations commemorated the ninth observance of 
the Day, with the General Assembly firmly supporting 
an urgent and complete end to all nuclear testing.
The creation of nuclear-weapon-free zones remains 
one  of  the  most  effective  measures  for  combating 
the  spread  of  WMDs.  With  that  in  mind,  President 
Nursultan  Nazarbayev 
strengthening 
cooperation  among  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  and 
convening  inter-zone  conferences  on  a  regular  basis. 
Astana proposes hosting the first such meeting.
proposed 
We  have  also  steadfastly  advocated  for 
the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  call  on 
all the parties involved to agree on mutually acceptable 
conditions  to  sustain  the  negotiation  process.  We 
also  support  preserving  and  ensuring  the  proper 
implementation  of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of 
Action for Iran, as well as a thorough investigation of 
chemical-weapons crimes in Syria and the prevention 
of chemical terrorism.
Countering  terrorism  is  of  special  significance 
for  my  country.  Kazakhstan  has  ratified  16  of  the  19 
United  Nations  instruments  on  combating  terrorism, 
with  measures  taken  for  the  early  accession  to  the 
remaining three treaties. Stronger global leadership in 
fighting terrorism remains crucial. We must do more to 
address the roots of radicalization, using best practices 
and relevant United Nations instruments.
We  are  actively  working  under  the  Joint  Plan  of 
Action  for  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  in  Central  Asia. 
Having contributed $300,000, Kazakhstan has become 
the  first  donor  to  its  third  phase,  and  we  thank  other 
donors too.
In  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  in  2015 
(see  A/70/PV.13),  President  Nazarbayev  put  forward 
several  counter-terrorism  initiatives:  the  creation  of  a 
global  counter-terrorism  coalition  or  network  and  the 
adoption of a comprehensive United Nations document 
on  combating  terrorism.  In  that  context,  our  country 
has  offered  the  Code  of  Conduct  towards  Achieving 
a World Free of Terrorism and invites all countries to 
closely  coordinate  in  the  fight  against  that  evil.  We 
commend all our partners for their support. The Code 
signing ceremony was held earlier this afternoon at a 
special  high-level  event,  with  more  than  70  Member 
States having endorsed the document, for which we are 
very grateful. The Code remains open for signature by 
other  States,  and  we  invite  them  all  to  manifest  their 
goodwill in fighting that disastrous phenomenon.
Our  strong  conviction 
that  comprehensive 
success in the area of hard security is impossible without 
is 
42/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
success  in  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals.  We  have  launched  a  number  of  initiatives  to 
implement the SDGs: the renowned international Expo 
2017  exhibition  on  the  theme  of  future  energy;  the 
Post-Expo International Centre for Green Technologies 
and  Investment  Projects;  the  Astana  International 
Financial Centre; the annual Astana Economic Forum; 
the KazAlD development agency; the Regional Hub of 
the Civil Service; the Regional Centre for Disaster Risk 
Reduction; and the Central Asian Regional Information 
and  Coordination  Centre 
illicit 
trafficking in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances 
and their precursors. All those and many other projects 
have many promising prospects for the future.
for  combating 
Kazakhstan  is  the  world’s  largest  landlocked 
country, and it is also a part of the biggest landlocked 
region  of  Central  Asia  and  Afghanistan,  and  the 
farthest away from any ocean. It has made many strides 
in  achieving  connectivity  and  in  turning  what  can  be 
termed “landlockedness” into “landlinkedness”.
Based on the outcomes of the implementation of the 
Almaty Programme of Action and working together to 
fulfil the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action 
for the landlocked least developed countries (LLDCs), 
we  are  working  to  further  expand  communications, 
enhance infrastructure, boost trade and transit, counter 
climate change and improve energy security. Recently, 
we  hosted  the  LLDCs’  Ministerial  Meeting  on  Trade 
and Trade Facilitation in Astana.
We are ready to share our experiences in promoting 
the  goals  of  our  large-scale  third  modernization 
programme,  geared  towards  joining  the  top  30  most 
developed  nations,  and  we  offer  our  assistance  to 
developing  countries.  In  that  context,  South-South 
cooperation  is  gaining  importance  for  us.  Together 
with the United Nations system and other partners we 
will continue to extend assistance to African countries. 
We will work under the Africa-Kazakhstan partnership 
for the SDGs, and we will continue to work with small 
island developing States.
The 
recent 
the 
establishment  of 
Islamic 
Organization  for  Food  Security 
in  Astana  will 
contribute  to  humanitarian  assistance  efforts  through 
the  creation  of  food  reserves.  Also,  a  new  initiative 
of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  in  the 
area of science and technology will serve the purpose 
of  narrowing  the  digital  and  ICT  gap  between  the 
developed and the developing countries.
took 
(Guyana),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Ten-Pow 
the Chair.
Kazakhstan’s  hallmarks,  among  many  others,  are 
pluralism  and  interfaith  accord.  They  are  promoted 
through  an  unprecedented  dialogue  platform,  namely, 
the  Congress  of  Leaders  of  World  and  Traditional 
Religions  in  Astana.  The  sixth  Congress  of  that  kind 
will take place next month in Astana. Its added value 
is that it brings together religious and political leaders, 
international organizations and civil society and turns 
the  paradigm  of  conflict  and  clashes  of  cultures  and 
religions into a unique model of tolerance and harmony. 
President  Nazarbayev  has  unveiled  a  new  programme 
of  spiritual  modernization  of  Kazakh  society  called 
“spiritual  enlightenment”,  which  blends  traditional 
with contemporary elements. I can convey the essence 
of the initiative by recalling his words that in dreaming 
of  our  great  future,  we  should  not  forget  about  our 
worthy past.
Before I conclude, I reiterate that it is only through 
our collective will and solidarity that we can turn this 
world in crisis into a world of hope and promise. The 
United  Nations  should  stay  open  and  relevant  to  all 
people, since it is our common responsibility to leave 
a strengthened and well-used heritage to move towards 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies where no 
one is left behind.
In  conclusion  I  want  to  refer  again  to  the  words 
of  Nelson  Mandela,  namely,  that  it  is  in  our  hands 
to  create  a  better  world  for  all  who  live  in  it.  We 
need  to  turn  our  goodwill  and  good  words  into  good 
actions.  That  is  what  we  desperately  need  today.  The 
President of Kazakhstan, His Excellency Mr. Nursultan 
Nazarbayev, clearly stated that the time to look ahead 
is now; the time for action is now; the time to show our 
will is now; and the time to make a difference is now.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Kyaw Tint Swe, Union Minister for the Office of 
the State Counsellor of Myanmar.
Mr.  Kyaw  Tint  Swe  (Myanmar):  We  live  in 
challenging  times.  This  year’s  theme,  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies”, is therefore most appropriate. It 
serves to remind us of the need to strengthen the role 
of this important Organization if we wish to overcome 
the complex challenges we face today. In that process, 
we  must  not  forget  the  core  principles  of  the  Charter 
18-30110
43/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  principle  of 
sovereign  equality.  It  is  also  important  to  remember 
that  the  promotion  of  economic,  social,  cultural  and 
humanitarian  interests,  as  well  as  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, 
can be attained only through international cooperation. 
Furthermore,  we  should  not  forget  the  international 
character of the United Nations.
It  is  only  through  constructive  and  peaceful 
approaches that we will be able to create a better United 
Nations  —  one  that  is  relevant  to  all  nations.  Only 
then  can  our  hopes  for  global  leadership  with  shared 
responsibilities become a reality. Here I wish to stress 
that Myanmar’s view on the role of the United Nations 
remains  unchanged.  There  is  no  suitable  multilateral 
platform other than the United Nations where countries 
can  work  together  to  find  solutions  to  overcome 
global challenges.
Let  me  apprise  the  Assembly  of  our  efforts  to 
transform  Myanmar  from  an  authoritarian  system 
into  a  democratic  one  and  of  our  efforts  to  bring 
about  sustainable  development  and  build  a  society 
where stability, peace and harmony prevail. A country 
without  peace  and  stability  cannot  achieve  economic 
development.  Of  that  we  are  convinced.  Accordingly, 
our  democratically  elected  Government  has  given 
priority  to  national  reconciliation  and  peace  since  we 
assumed office.
We  are  convinced  that  ethnic  strife  and  armed 
conflicts  in  Myanmar  can  be  ended  only  through 
political  means.  Lasting  peace  will  become  a  reality 
only  when  the  democratic  federal  union  to  which  our 
people  have  aspired  is  established.  We  are  therefore 
conducting negotiations at the Union Peace Conference 
to  reach  agreement  on  the  fundamental  principles  for 
a  democratic  federal  union.  The  three  sessions  of  the 
conference  held  so  far  have  resulted  in  the  adoption 
of 51 fundamental principles that will become part of 
the  Union  Peace  Accord.  To  ensure  that  the  process 
is  inclusive,  we  have  continued  negotiations  not  only 
with the eight ethnic armed groups that have signed the 
Nationwide  Ceasefire  Agreement  but  also  with  those 
that have yet to come on board.
During  the  past  year,  two  more  ethnic  armed 
groups, namely, the New Mon State Party and the Lahu 
Democratic Union, joined the peace process by signing 
the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement. We will continue 
our endeavours to bring all ethnic armed organizations 
under  the  umbrella  of  the  Nationwide  Ceasefire 
Agreement and to the conference table.
Essential  to  our  endeavours  to  bring  peace  and 
prosperity to the nation is the need to ensure balanced 
development in the economic, social and environmental 
spheres. To that end, the Government has adopted the 
Myanmar  Sustainable  Development  Plan  2018–2030, 
which  is  in  accord  with  the  United  Nations  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Among  its 
important  goals  are  peace,  national  reconciliation, 
security and good governance. The success of the Plan 
requires  not  only  national  endeavours  but  also  the 
involvement and commitment of development partners 
and international organizations.
Human  rights  and  inclusiveness  are  fundamental 
to  the  successful  transformation  of  Myanmar  into  a 
democratic  society.  The  Government  has  spared  no 
effort to nurture democratic norms and practices among 
all its citizens. Those efforts include the promotion of 
the  rule  of  law,  good  governance  and  the  protection 
of  human  rights,  and  the  fostering  of  civil  society. 
All  those  elements  are  essential  for  the  emergence  of 
a  democratic  federal  union  in  which  the  security  and 
prosperity of all citizens are ensured. It is a supremely 
challenging task, particularly for a fledgling democracy. 
However, Myanmar is strong in its resolution to build 
the democratic society to which our people aspire.
Resolving the issue in Rakhine state is an important 
component of our democratic process. Our Government 
has consistently exerted all possible efforts to bring peace 
and development to Rakhine. Within weeks of assuming 
the  responsibilities  of  governing,  the  Government  set 
up  the  Central  Committee  for  the  Implementation  of 
Peace,  Stability  and  Development  in  Rakhine  state 
in  May  2016  under  the  chairmanship  of  the  State 
Counsellor, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. That was followed 
by  the  establishment  of  the  Advisory  Commission  on 
Rakhine  State  in  September  2016,  headed  by  the  late 
Kofi  Annan,  former  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations,  to  provide  recommendations  for  bringing 
peace, stability and development to Rakhine state.
I wish at this point to pay tribute to Kofi Annan, 
who  with  his  immense  wisdom  provided  us  with 
recommendations in his desire for us to reach our goal 
of peace, prosperity and security.
Barely a month after the Advisory Commission was 
established,  an  extremist  terrorist  group,  called  Aga 
Mul Mujahidin — later renamed the Arakan Rohingya 
44/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
Salvation  Army  —  launched  attacks  on  three  border 
police  posts  in  northern  Rakhine  state.  The  attacks 
were  premeditated,  well  organized  and  designed  to 
invoke fear among the inhabitants, as well as to incite 
violence and attract international attention.
The  Government,  despite  the  attacks,  continued 
with its efforts to seek sustainable solutions for Rakhine 
state.  The  Advisory  Commission  presented  its  final 
report to the Government of Myanmar in August 2017. 
It  contains  88  recommendations  towards  achieving 
lasting  peace  and  stability  in  Rakhine.  We  have  set 
up  an  implementation  committee,  and  I  am  happy  to 
report that we are now implementing 81 out of the 88 
recommendations made by the Commission.
Within  hours  of  the  release  of  the  Advisory 
Commission’s final report, Arakan Rohingya Salvation 
Army terrorists carried out simultaneous attacks on 30 
police  outposts  and  one  army  battalion  headquarters. 
Here,  it  must  be  stressed  that  the  Arakan  Rohingya 
Salvation Army attacks of 2017 were not only against 
the security forces but also against various communities 
inhabiting Rakhine state. The attacks opened a chapter 
of  fear  and  instability  that  led  to  a  large  outflow  of 
refugees to Bangladesh. International attention has been 
focused on the outflow but has overlooked the broader 
picture of the various reasons — immediate as well as 
long-standing  —  that  brought  about  the  displacement 
of  those  people.  Nevertheless,  the  Government  has 
persisted in its sincere efforts to address as a whole the 
need for stability, reconciliation and the development of 
all communities in Rakhine.
We  deeply  sympathize  with 
these  displaced 
persons,  especially  the  women  and  children,  and 
have taken steps to effect the early repatriation of all 
displaced  persons  from  Rakhine  who  are  verified  as 
residents of the State. To that end, we have signed three 
bilateral agreements with Bangladesh. In line with these 
bilateral  agreements,  the  necessary  preparations  have 
been made, and we have been ready to receive verified 
returnees  from  Bangladesh  since  23  January.  We  call 
on Bangladesh to fulfil its commitments in accordance 
with these bilateral agreements so as to allow without 
delay  the  return  of  verified  persons  under  voluntary, 
safe and dignified conditions. A number of people have 
returned of their own volition, having made their own 
arrangements. They have been systematically registered 
and  processed  and  are  now  with  their  relatives  and 
families in their own homes. However, not even a single 
displaced person has been repatriated by Bangladesh as 
part of the implementation of the bilateral agreement. 
The only way to resolve the issue swiftly and peacefully 
is through the implementation of bilateral agreements, 
working together in the spirit of good-neighbourliness 
and refraining from activities that might be inimical to 
the national interests of either Myanmar or Bangladesh.
We recognize the crucial role of the United Nations 
in  addressing  the  issue  of  Rakhine.  Accordingly,  the 
Government  of  Myanmar  signed  a  memorandum  of 
understanding  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme and the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  with  a  view  to  assisting 
the speedy and efficient resettlement and rehabilitation 
of returnees. The United Nations team has started this 
process, and we are looking forward to its feedback.
The  Myanmar  Government  has  expressed  its 
serious  concerns  over  the  report  of  the  independent 
international 
fact-finding  mission  on  Myanmar 
published by the Human Rights Council on 12 September 
(A/HRC/39/64). Due to our Government’s serious and 
genuine concerns about the advisability of fact-finding 
mission’s  establishment,  composition  and  mandate, 
Myanmar  objected  to  the  mission’s  creation  from  the 
very beginning, At a time when we are working hard to 
build harmony on the ground, we are concerned that the 
release of the report, which is based on narratives and 
not on hard evidence — a point which I energetically 
emphasize  —  will  serve  only  to  further  inflame 
tensions  and  could  potentially  hinder  our  efforts  to 
create the much-needed social cohesion in Rakhine. In 
this regard, I would like to stress what accountability 
should mean to all of us. Accountability should mean 
taking responsibility for one’s actions. Accountability 
must  apply  equally  to  all.  Individuals,  organizations 
and  national  Governments  —  as  well  as  multilateral 
organizations  —  must  be  held  responsible  for  the 
consequences of their words and actions.
As the Assembly will also be aware, the Government 
of  Myanmar  has  resolutely  rejected  the  International 
Criminal  Court’s  6  September  ruling  in  connection 
with Rakhine state. Our position in this regard is clear: 
Myanmar  is  not  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute,  and  the 
Court has no jurisdiction whatsoever over my country. 
The Court’s decision was made on dubious legal grounds 
and applied to a situation where domestic remedies had 
not yet been exhausted. I speak to all delegations today 
when  I  say  that  we,  the  members  of  the  international 
community, should be deeply concerned by the recent 
decision  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
18-30110
45/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
various precedents that the Court may be setting by this 
ruling, as well as by the way in which it was made. Such 
action  can  only  erode  the  moral  and  legal  authority 
of  the  Court.  We  are  heartened  that  we  are  not  alone 
in  having  grave  misgivings  about  the  Court.  I  would 
also like to make it clear that, while the Government is 
unable to accept this legally dubious intervention by the 
International Criminal Court, we are fully committed 
to  ensuring  accountability  where  there  is  concrete 
evidence  of  human  rights  violations  committed  in 
Rakhine state.
inquiry 
that  will 
We  have  recently  established  an  independent 
commission  of 
investigate  all 
violations  of  human  rights  and  atrocities  committed 
in  Rakhine  state  as  part  of  our  efforts  to  address  the 
issues of accountability, reconciliation, peace, stability 
and  development  in  our  country.  The  Commission  is 
chaired by Ms. Rosario Manalo, former Deputy Foreign 
Minister of the Philippines, and comprises Ambassador 
Kenzo  Oshima, 
Permanent 
Representative  to  the  United  Nations  and  Under-
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  and  two 
Myanmar nationals, one of whom is a former Chairman 
of  the  Constitutional  Tribunal  and  the  other  a  former 
senior official of the United Nations Children’s Fund. 
We  hope  that,  alongside  the  recommendations  of  the 
Advisory  Commission  on  Rakhine  State,  the  work  of 
the independent commission of inquiry will become an 
important guiding light for the resolution of problems 
in Rakhine state.
former 
Japanese 
The  challenges  facing  Myanmar  are  complex  and 
multifaceted.  However,  the  people  of  Myanmar  are 
resilient. We stand united to face all obstacles and to meet 
all challenges as we strive to bring peace, development 
and  national  harmony  to  our  country,  which  has 
suffered  from  decades  of  conflict,  underdevelopment 
and disharmony.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Gudlaugur Thór Thórdarson, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Iceland.
Mr.  Thórdarson  (Iceland):  The  United  Nations 
has  played  a  critical  role  in  promoting  peace  and 
development  for  all.  Most  indices  measuring  human 
development  tell  a  positive  story  —  a  story  of  our 
shared success. It is a story we should tell more often.
Technological  advances  and  social  and  economic 
progress that we never envisioned have become a reality, 
which  gives  us  hope  that  humankind  can  once  again 
prove that no challenge is too big to overcome and that we 
are right to dream big. But dreams will come true  only 
with  hard  work  and  determination.  And  our  common 
goals  will  be  achieved  only  through  international 
cooperation and by significantly accelerating the pace 
of progress. The United Nations is the most important 
platform we have for this vital cooperation.
Iceland is a small country with high ambitions. A 
gender-equal world is one of those ambitions. We have 
a solid record as one of the most gender-equal countries 
in  the  world,  which  could  only  happened  through  the 
hard work of women pioneers who changed our politics 
and our law to empower all women in Iceland, and, of 
course, with the cooperation of a few good men. Even 
though more needs to be done at home, we stand ready to 
share our experience with other States. Gender equality 
is a master key to unlocking sustainable development in 
all countries, in line with the goals of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development.
Another  goal  of  ours  is  to  make  sure  that  future 
generations  will  thank  us  —  all  of  us  —for  having 
worked hard to save them from the worst consequences 
of  climate  change.  Given  its  location  in  the  Arctic, 
Iceland sits in the front row as a witness to disappearing 
ice caps and environmental change. In the drier parts of 
the globe, desertification continues and causes serious 
challenges  to  people’s  livelihoods.  There  is  no  doubt 
in  my  mind  that  climate  change  is  fast  becoming  the 
single most serious challenge to global peace, security 
and development. While technology will be a big part 
of the solution — with electric cars, and with renewable 
energy  fuelling  our  economies  —  we  will  also  need 
to  nurture  our  soil  and  restore  our  land  as  key  parts 
of  our  efforts  aimed  at  fighting  climate  change.  This 
perspective  is  reflected  in  the  ambitious  new  climate 
strategy of the Government of Iceland, which has been 
put in place to meet our Paris Agreement targets for 2030 
and to make Iceland carbon-neutral by 2040. Already, 
all electricity and heating in Iceland is produced from 
renewable resources. Our plan aims to phase out fossil 
fuels  in  transport  and  increase  afforestation  and  the 
restoration of wetlands.
We have joined a coalition of other countries that 
have already put such plans in place because, again, the 
only way forward is through cooperation. High-income 
countries must do their share to reduce emissions and 
help low-income countries adapt to the effects of climate 
change. In the end, our reaction to climate change has 
more to do with self-preservation than self-sacrifice.
46/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
Sustainable development, with particular emphasis 
on  the  oceans,  climate  and  energy,  and  social  and 
economic  development  will  be  among  the  guiding 
principles  of  Iceland’s  chairmanship  of  the  Arctic 
Council  from  2019  to  2021.  The  Council  has  shown 
remarkable 
sustainable 
development  and  practical  cooperation  in  the  high 
north  and  could  be  used  as  a  model  for  other  regions 
of the world, as local actions can drive global change.
in  promoting 
leadership 
Iceland is firmly committed to the 2030 Agenda, with 
its  inclusive  and  bottom-up  approach  to  development. 
It  is  a  key  policy  priority  for  our  Government  and 
features  strong  ownership  and  participation  by  both 
the  private  sector  and  civil  society.  We  look  forward 
to  the  upcoming  Iceland  voluntary  national  review  in 
2019 and are hoping for constructive feedback that will 
encourage us to do better.
Healthy  oceans  and  sustainable  fisheries  will 
remain at the core of Iceland’s foreign policy. To reach 
our goal on healthy oceans, all nations must join hands. 
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
and  its  implementing  agreements  provide  a  tried  and 
tested  framework  for  the  work  ahead.  Through  our 
experience,  we  have  learned  that  the  most  effective 
approach  to  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of 
marine resources is the regional approach. This should 
also  be  the  main  approach  in  the  new  “biodiversity 
beyond national jurisdiction” implementing agreement 
currently being negotiated.
In  the  field  of  marine-resource  management,  we 
stand  ready  to  share  our  expertise  with  others.  The 
same  applies  to  gender  equality,  green  energy  and 
land restoration, all of which are a part of the United 
Nations training programmes in Iceland. Almost 5,000 
experts from 100 countries have been trained since the 
first programme was established almost 40 years ago. 
This  has  been  made  possible  because  the  knowledge 
was  fostered  by  Icelandic  institutions  and  private 
companies,  not  least  within  the  fishery  and  energy 
sectors. Development, trade and business can and should 
go hand in glove in implementing the 2030 Agenda, and 
we are pleased to note that the United Nations is taking 
concrete steps to make such partnerships stronger and 
to bring energy, innovation and know-how into national 
and global efforts.
In  the  past  few  decades  we  have  also  seen 
incredible advances in medicine. These advances have 
enabled us to live longer despite increasingly unhealthy 
lifestyles. Yesterday, we vowed to actively cooperate in 
the prevention of non-communicable diseases and the 
promotion of healthy lifestyles. One neglected issue is 
neurological  disorders,  including  spinal-cord  injuries, 
which  affect  a  billion  people  worldwide.  The  Nordic 
countries  are  working  towards  a  common  resource 
database on neurological disorders to facilitate medical 
advances  in  this  area.  We  encourage  others  to  do  the 
same, as, yet again, cooperation will be key to success.
Earlier this year, Iceland took a seat on the Human 
Rights Council for the first time. It was a proud moment 
for us, to join the Council, as it came at a time when 
Iceland is celebrating 100 years of sovereignty and the 
seventieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of 
Human  Rights.  We  believe  that  human  rights  express 
the core purpose of the United Nations. Advancing the 
dignity and equality of all human beings must be our 
fundamental goal. Only in that way can we attain peace, 
security and sustainable development for all societies. 
We firmly believe that upholding human rights is in the 
interest of every State.
The Human Rights Council should be the standard 
bearer for respecting, protecting and promoting human 
rights  around  the  globe.  Its  Member  States  must  be 
willing to improve human rights in their own backyards, 
so that our criticism does not fall on deaf ears. We will 
strive  to  improve  the  Human  Rights  Council  through 
dialogue and cooperation.
Our  priorities  also  revolve  around  promoting 
women’s  human  rights,  safeguarding  our  children’s 
rights  and  upholding  freedom  from  violence.  We  will 
work  to  advance  the  human  rights  of  lesbian,  gay, 
bisexual, transgender and intersex persons, and, lastly, 
focus  on  the  connection  between  climate  change  and 
human rights.
Iceland’s  history  emphasizes  that  the  prosperity 
and  well-being  of  nations  is,  to  a  large  extent, 
dependent  upon  protecting  and  promoting  the  rights 
of our citizens, including civil, political, economic and 
cultural rights. As a part of our commitment to human 
rights, Iceland’s new development cooperation strategy 
will  incorporate  an  approach  based  on  human  rights, 
which  means  that  further  steps  will  now  be  taken  to 
ensure that our development strategies and projects are 
formulated,  implemented  and  evaluated  with  human 
rights at the forefront of our considerations.
It  is  better  to  light  a  candle  than  to  curse 
the  darkness.  The  United  Nations  is  the  heart  of 
18-30110
47/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
international  cooperation  but,  in  order  to  reach  our 
common  goals,  a  more  efficient  and  effective  United 
Nations  is  called  for.  Iceland  strongly  supports  the 
Secretary-General’s  reform  agenda  aimed  at  making 
the Organization, which was created in a different era, 
fit to meet the challenges of and take advantage of the 
opportunities  offered  by  the  twenty-first  century.  We 
should  continue  to  seek  ways  to  reform  the  Security 
Council,  its  working  methods  and  membership.  It 
should not be held hostage to narrow national interests 
when our house is on fire. We need to show more unity. 
Despite the progress that we have made in every area, 
difficult conflicts remain to be resolved. Even today, in 
2018, we are witnessing the use of chemical weapons, 
ethnic  cleansing,  war  crimes,  forced  migration  and 
other  horrors,  which  should  be  echoes  from  a  distant 
past, not everyday news.
The Syrian war has left the country in ruins, with 
more  than  400,000  people  dead  and  almost  half  the 
population displaced. A political solution continues to be 
the only viable path towards achieving peace. In Yemen, 
we are witnessing a conflict that is fast becoming the 
worst humanitarian crisis in the world, and there seems 
to be no end in sight, as regional powerhouses continue 
to  fuel  the  fires  of  war.  The  issue  of  Western  Sahara 
remains unresolved, and the same applies to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. The disregard for the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of Ukraine and Georgia remains 
a wound in the European security architecture. We are 
seeing mounting challenges in Venezuela and continue 
to receive reports of the horrors committed against the 
Rohingya population in Myanmar.
We must act and make full use of the tools available 
to hold those responsible to account, including before 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  All  these  conflicts 
become  even  more  disconcerting  when  we  consider 
that almost 250 million children are affected, which is 
casting a long shadow on their future. These conflict-
stricken  areas  and  other  emergencies  are  also  the 
drivers of the greatest refugee crisis since the end of the 
Second World War and call for a coordinated response, 
upon  which  we  hope  the  global  compact  on  refugees 
will be able to deliver.
The multilateral system — the very foundation of 
prosperity and peace — is under strain from new and 
challenging political agendas in which simple answers 
are provided to complex questions, favouring strongman 
politics  over  diplomacy,  free  trade,  democracy  and 
human rights. We need to stand by our convictions and 
principles both at home and abroad, while addressing 
some  of  the  legitimate  grievances  of  our  citizens. 
Iceland has been increasing its contributions to United 
Nations  programmes  and  funds.  We  will  continue  to 
support  the  United  Nations  and  stand  by  its  founding 
values and principles.
On 1 December, Iceland will mark the centenary of 
its independence and sovereignty. This period has been 
characterized  by  rapid  economic  growth  and  social 
development. It has given birth to a society that scores 
high on almost all development indices. One might be 
tempted to say that this success was all our own making 
and good luck, but that would be far from the truth. The 
bedrock of our independence and success has been the 
international rules-based order with its open markets, 
free trade, multilateral institutions, liberal democracy 
and international cooperation. This foundation should 
never  be  taken  for  granted,  and  it  falls  to  us  —  the 
States Members of the United Nations — to ensure that 
future generations can enjoy the same benefits.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Elmar Maharram oglu Mammadyarov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Mr.  Mammadyarov  (Azerbaijan):  I  am  pleased 
to  begin  my  statement  by  congratulating  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  assumption  of  the 
presidency of the General Assembly, as the fourth-ever 
woman elected to this position of great responsibility, 
and wish her every success in discharging her important 
duties.  Ms.  Espinosa  Garcés  may  count  on  the  full 
support of Azerbaijan during her tenure.
We are also grateful to His Excellency Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák for his outstanding work in presiding over the 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-second  session.  I  express  my 
profound  respect  for  and  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. António Guterres, for his 
dedicated leadership and efforts aimed at improving the 
efficiency of the Organization. I would also like to take 
this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  former  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan — a man of peace. His legacy will 
remain a true inspiration for all of us.
The  theme  of  this  year’s  general  debate  is  very 
timely and embodies those issues of utmost significance 
for all of us. We live in a globalized world where the 
interactions  among  people  from  different  countries 
are  growing  in  intensity  as  they  become  increasingly 
extensive.  Azerbaijan  fully  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s  determination  to  genuinely  contribute  to 
48/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
preventing  wars  and  sustaining  peace,  as  well  as  his 
efforts  aimed  at  responding  to  conflicts  and  crises  in 
an early and effective manner, assisting Member States 
in their endeavours to sustain peace and build resilient 
and  prosperous  societies,  making  the  United  Nations 
more coherent, integrated, effective and efficient.
As  we  embark  upon  a  path  of  implementing  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, we need to 
regularly ask ourselves to what extent we are delivering 
on  our  commitments.  Coordinated  efforts  and  shared 
responsibilities  among  States,  backed  by  adequate 
resources, are essential to securing a sustainable future 
and ensuring that no one is left behind.
(SDGs) 
In  adopting  its  national  development  strategy, 
Azerbaijan  has  taken  into  account  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals 
to 
implement 
improving 
good  governance,  ensuring 
sustainable  growth, 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law,  promoting  respect  for 
human rights, facilitating access to public services and 
providing for inclusive societies.
large-scale  programmes  for 
continues 
and 
We are consistent in our efforts aimed at improving 
the living conditions of our citizens. The poverty rate 
in the country is 5.4 per cent, while the unemployment 
rate is 5 per cent. The Davos World Economic Forum 
Global  Competitiveness  Report  for  2017-2018  ranked 
Azerbaijan  35  out  of  137  countries  with  respect  to 
competitiveness. Among the developing countries, the 
World Economic Forum ranked Azerbaijan third on its 
2018 Inclusive Development Index.
inaugurated 
Azerbaijan  contributes  to  regional  development 
efforts 
through  promoting  connectivity.  It  plays 
an  important  role  in  bringing  continents  together 
and  creating  a  platform  for  mutually  beneficial 
collaboration.  The  East-West  transportation  corridor, 
which  was 
is  a 
transportation corridor that saves at least two weeks of 
time in transporting goods from Asia to Europe or the 
reverse.  Other  important  projects  include  the  South-
North and South-West corridors, which, thanks to our 
efforts combined with those of neighbouring countries, 
have become a reality. Azerbaijan invests substantially 
in those corridors and is an active participant in both 
initiatives.
in  October  2017, 
The  first  phase  of  the  construction  of  the  Baku 
International  Sea  Trade  Port  complex  was  begun 
in  May.  The  handling  capacity  of  the  port  will  be 
15 million tons of cargo per year, with the possibility of 
increasing it to 25 million tons in time. Azerbaijan has 
also initiated a transnational broadband project, namely, 
the Trans-Eurasian Information Super Highway, which 
aims to build a transnational fibre-optic line between 
Hong  Kong  and  Frankfurt.  It  will  be  the  shortest 
connecting  line  between  East  and  West,  in  an  era  of 
competition where every single second counts.
Today,  Azerbaijan  is  providing  the  world  with  its 
own  development  model,  backed  by  internal  stability, 
civil  unity,  solidarity  in  society  and  an  environment 
of peace and tolerance among the various peoples and 
religions  living  together  in  a  liberal,  sustainable  and 
dynamic  economy.  Inspired  by  its  achievements  in 
economic  development,  successful  social  policy,  rich 
human capital and traditional values of multiculturalism, 
Azerbaijan  decided 
the 
city  of  Baku,  to  host  the  World  Expo  2025.  Our 
theme — “Developing human capital, building a better 
future” — is of universal interest and has a particular 
significance for Azerbaijan. It is also fully aligned with 
the international development agenda, in particular, the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
to  nominate 
its  capital, 
The  region  that  encompasses  Eastern  Europe,  the 
Caucasus  and  the  Caspian  has  never  hosted  a  World 
Expo.  Accordingly,  World  Expo  2025  Baku  will  be 
truly  universal  in  the  way  it  goes  beyond  traditional 
geography  and  presents  a  vivid  example  of  a  country 
achieving  remarkable  results  within  a  historically 
short period of time — it has only been 27 years since 
Azerbaijan’s independence — and proposing to host an 
event of the scale of World Expo. I would therefore like 
to take this opportunity to kindly ask States members 
of the International Exhibitions Bureau to vote for Baku 
at this year’s elections, which are to be held in Paris on 
23 November.
to 
focus  on 
Sustainable 
economic  growth  has 
enabled 
Azerbaijan  not  only 
its  national 
development  strategy,  but  also  to  actively  support 
international  development  efforts.  Azerbaijan  has 
provided  international  humanitarian  and  development 
assistance to a number of countries through the Heydar 
Aliyev  Foundation  and  the  Azerbaijan  International 
Development Agency under the auspices of the Ministry 
for Foreign Affairs. Particular attention has been paid 
to  addressing  the  needs  of  the  developing  and  least-
developed countries, as well as those recovering from 
natural disasters.
18-30110
49/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  this  year,  we 
reaffirm our commitment to strengthening democracy 
and  protecting  human  rights  as  top  priorities  for 
is 
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan.  The  Government 
implementing 
large-scale  programmes  so  as 
to 
create  the  necessary  conditions  for  all  the  citizens 
of  Azerbaijan  to  fully  enjoy  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  Education  is  a  top  priority  in 
our  domestic  policy  because  a  well-established  and 
educated  society  is  a  guarantee  of  successful  and 
sustainable development.
The right to health is fully ensured in Azerbaijan. 
Every  year,  more  than  5  million  people  —  half  the 
country’s  population  —  undergo  medical  check-
ups  that  are  fully  subsidized  by  funds  from  the  State 
budget. Azerbaijan was the first country in the Muslim 
world  to  grant  women  the  right  to  vote,  as  early  as 
1918. Azerbaijan strives to ensure gender equality and 
empower  women  in  public  and  social  life.  It  is  also 
worth noting that, as we live in a digital age, currently 
about  80  per  cent  of  the  country’s  population  has 
unimpeded  access  to  the  Internet,  which  has  become 
the most favoured and practical vehicle for information, 
media,  communications  and  the  free  flow  of  ideas 
and thoughts.
Combating  corruption  lies  at  the  heart  of  SDG 
implementation in Azerbaijan. The implementation of 
innovative  approaches  and  technological  innovations 
has  enabled  Azerbaijan  to  make  significant  progress 
in  curbing  corruption  in  the  public  sector.  Earlier 
this  year,  the  Human  Rights  Council  unanimously 
adopted  resolution  37/7,  on  promoting  human  rights 
and  the  SDGs  through  the  transparent,  accountable 
and  efficient  delivery  of  public  services,  which  was 
introduced  by  Azerbaijan  and  aims  to  promote  the 
Azerbaijan  Service  and  Assessment  Network  brand 
concept of public service.
In  early  May,  Azerbaijan  successfully  presented 
its  periodic  report  within  the  framework  of  the  third 
cycle  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review.  We  remain 
committed to enhancing dialogue and interaction with 
other United Nations human rights mechanisms, based 
on mutual respect and understanding.
Azerbaijan is one of the world’s recognized centres 
of  multiculturalism.  All  ethnic  and  religious  groups 
living in Azerbaijan coexist in peace and harmony. We 
have  hosted  numerous  international  events  aimed  at 
strengthening  intercultural  dialogue.  As  a  member  of 
both the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and the 
Council of Europe, Azerbaijan launched, in 2008, the 
Baku Process, whose main goal is to strengthen dialogue, 
partnership and cooperation between the Muslim world 
and  Europe.  Implemented  under  the  patronage  of  the 
Azerbaijani  leadership,  the  Baku  Process  provides  a 
large-scale  platform  for  the  exchange  of  knowledge 
through interreligious and intercultural dialogue.
In  his  most  recent  report  on  the  promotion  of  a 
culture  of  peace  and  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace 
(A/72/488), the Secretary-General specifically mentions 
the important role being played by the Baku Process in 
advocating dialogue among cultures. This year marks 
the tenth anniversary of the Baku Process, and a series 
of events will be organized on this occasion, including 
the  sixth  high-level  Humanitarian  Forum,  to  be  held 
from 25 to 26 October in Baku.
From  this  rostrum,  I  am  pleased  to  announce 
that  Azerbaijan  will  assume  the  chairmanship  of 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries  next  year. 
Throughout its history, the Non-Aligned Movement has 
played a fundamental role in strengthening international 
peace  and  security  by  promoting  adherence  to  the 
principles  adopted  at  the  Bandung  Conference.  The 
chairmanship  of  Azerbaijan  will  provide  further 
impetus  for  advancing  the  founding  principles  of  the 
Movement, the sixty-fifth anniversary of which will be 
celebrated in 2020.
Unresolved armed conflicts, existing and emerging 
security  challenges  and  related  humanitarian  crises 
threaten to reverse much of the development progress 
made.  The  ongoing  armed  conflict  between  Armenia 
and  Azerbaijan  continues  to  represent  a  major  threat 
to  international  and  regional  peace  and  security.  The 
conflict has resulted in the occupation of one fifth of the 
territory  of  Azerbaijan  and  has  turned  approximately 
one  out  of  every  nine  persons  in  the  country  into  an 
internally displaced person or refugee.
Since  the  very  first  day  of  the  conflict,  combat 
operations  have  been  conducted  exclusively  inside 
the  territory  of  Azerbaijan —  virtually  in  the  middle 
of  the  country  —  affecting  its  civilian  population 
and  infrastructure.  In  its  resolutions  822  (1993),  853 
(1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993), the Security Council 
acknowledged  the  fact  that  military  force  was  used 
against Azerbaijan, that such actions are unlawful and 
50/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
in contradiction with the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations, and that they constitute 
an obvious violation of the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  of  the  country.  Numerous  decisions  and 
documents adopted by other authoritative international 
organizations have been framed along the same lines.
international  community  to  send  a  strong  message 
to  and  exert  pressure  on  Armenia  to  ensure  its  full 
compliance with international law and to immediately 
and  unconditionally  start  implementing  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions adopted with regard to the 
settlement of the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict.
However,  the  Security  Council’s  key  demands, 
including,  first  of  all,  the  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan, have 
yet  to  be  implemented.  On  the  contrary,  Armenia’s 
policy  and  practices  clearly  demonstrate  its  intention 
to  secure  the  annexation  of  Azerbaijani  territories  it 
captured  through  military  force  and  in  which  it  has 
carried out ethnic cleansing on a massive scale.
Initially,  after  changes  in  the  Government  of 
Armenia,  there  were  some  expectations  that  the  new 
leadership  would  uphold  democratic  values  and  the 
norms  and  principles  of  international  law,  including 
the  relevant  resolutions  and  decisions  of  international 
organizations,  particularly 
the 
Security Council. Unfortunately, so far no progress has 
been observed in that regard.
those  adopted  by 
Contrary  to  his  earlier  statements,  the  Prime 
Minister of Armenia now does not even shy away from 
overtly  attempting  to  regard  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
region  of  Azerbaijan  as  part  of  Armenia.  Such  an 
annexationist  claim  not  only  shows  utter  disrespect 
for  the  norms  and  principles  of  international  law  and 
the  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Security  Council,  but 
also  undermines  the  peace  process  mediated  by  the 
Minsk  Group  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  and  its  Chairs.  Therefore,  at 
the highest political level, Armenia demonstrates that 
its real intentions are not the settlement of the conflict 
through negotiations, but the continuation of the illegal 
occupation of the Azerbaijani territories.
There are continual internal political developments 
in Armenia of an unstable nature, with no understanding 
by  the  international  community  of  what  is  going  on 
in there. That is why we cannot and will not rule out 
the  notion  that  the  latest  statements  and  actions  of 
the  Armenian  Prime  Minister  are  aimed  at  further 
escalating  the  situation  on  the  ground  and  provoking 
armed  hostilities  along  the  line  of  contact  and  on  the 
border  between  Armenia  and  Azerbaijan.  But  one 
thing is clear: full responsibility for the consequences 
of  this  negative  scenario  will  lie  entirely  with  the 
Republic  of  Armenia.  We  therefore  call  upon  the 
Armenia  has  consistently  obstructed  the  conflict-
settlement  process  and,  at  the  same  time,  refuses  to 
conduct  results-oriented  negotiations  and  regularly 
resorts  to  various  provocations  designed  to  escalate 
the  situation  on  the  ground.  Armenia  is  trying  to 
consolidate  its  occupation  of  the  seized  territories  by 
changing  their  demographic,  cultural  and  physical 
character and preventing the hundreds of thousands of 
forcibly displaced Azerbaijanis from returning to their 
homes. In flagrant violation of the Geneva Conventions 
of 1949, Armenia continues to implement its policy of 
illegally  settling  Armenians,  particularly  those  from 
Syria, in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan.
Armenia’s  new  leadership  should  understand  that 
their promises to the Armenian people to make Armenia 
an  economically  developed  and  prosperous  State 
cannot  be  possible  without  peace,  good-neighbourly 
relations and respect for the sovereignty and territorial 
integrity  of  its  neighbours.  The  earlier  Armenia  puts 
aside its territorial claims and withdraws troops from 
the territories of Azerbaijan, the sooner peace can come 
to  our  region  and  the  sooner  prospects  for  Armenia’s 
development will improve.
There  is  now  much  talk  of  democracy  and  the 
the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region  of 
Armenians  of 
Azerbaijan. But what about the Azerbaijani population 
of  Nagorno  Karabakh  and  the  Azerbaijanis  from  the 
seven  surrounding  districts  who  were  subjected  to 
brutal ethnic cleansing and forced to leave their places 
of  origin,  homes  and  property?  If  the  new  Armenian 
leadership is calling itself democracy, then they have to 
act in accordance with the rule of law and democratic 
values. It must let those uprooted people return to their 
homes, and it must withdraw its armed forces from the 
occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan,  as  demanded  by 
relevant resolutions of the Security Council and other 
international organizations.
Azerbaijan  sincerely  believes  that  there  is  no 
alternative  to  peace,  stability  and  mutually  beneficial 
regional cooperation, and is the most interested party in 
the earliest possible political settlement of the conflict. 
At the same time, no settlement of the conflict can be 
18-30110
51/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
reached if it violates the Constitution of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan  and  is  inconsistent  with  international  law. 
The  resolution  of  the  conflict  is  possible  only  on  the 
basis  of  the  respecting  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Azerbaijan  within 
internationally 
recognized borders.
its 
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Mahamat Zene Cherif, Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
African  Integration  and  International  Cooperation  of 
the Republic of Chad.
Mr. Cherif (Chad) (spoke in French): At the outset, 
permit  me  to  convey,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Idriss Deby Itno, President of the Republic of Chad 
and  Head  of  State,  the  Chadian  delegation’s  warmest 
congratulations  and  best  wishes  for  success  to  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on 
her  successful  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. Chad assures her 
of our support as she strives to fulfil her noble mission.
We  would  also  like  to  express  our  sincere  thanks 
and  great  appreciation 
to  her  predecessor,  His 
Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, for the quality of the 
work  conducted  and  the  convincing  results  achieved 
during his term. On behalf of Chad, I would also like to 
recognize the leadership of Secretary-General António 
Guterres and thank him for his continued commitment 
to  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and 
promoting its partnership with regional organizations, 
particularly the African Union.
Chad  welcomes  the  relevance  of  the  President’s 
this  session,  “Dialogue  and 
strategic  vision  for 
strengthening  of  multilateralism  as  a  catalyst  for  the 
well-being of all persons and a sustainable planet”. The 
choice of this theme is justified in many ways. We live 
in a world experiencing perpetual change where we are 
confronted  with  the  serious  consequences  of  climate 
change,  conflicts  and  crises,  underdevelopment, 
unprecedented  migratory 
nationalism 
and isolationism.
flows, 
In a world so deeply troubled and exposed to such 
diverse and grave perils, humankind has no choice but 
to  further  unite  around  the  shared  universal  values 
underpinning the establishment of the United Nations, a 
melting pot of nations and peoples of the world aspiring 
to  live  together  in  peace,  mutual  respect,  solidarity, 
complementarity and a common destiny. Our future, as 
well  as  that  of  generations  to  come  for  whom  we  are 
responsible, depend on it.
More than anywhere else, Africa in general and the 
countries of the Sahel in particular are experiencing the 
combined negative effects of all these aforementioned 
scourges.  My  country,  Chad,  surrounded  by  hotbeds 
of  conflict  and  crisis  and  in  a  region  characterized 
by  burgeoning  terrorism,  illicit  trafficking  of  all 
kinds — including human trafficking related to illegal 
immigration  —  transnational  crime,  drought  and 
desertification, is deeply affected.
On the basis of the firm conviction that there can 
be no development, peace or stability without security, 
Chad, despite its meagre resources, has been obliged to 
engage on several fronts in the fight against terrorism, 
across  the  Lake  Chad  basin  and  the  Sahel.  Despite 
the  immense  sacrifices  made  both  individually  and 
collectively  with  the  countries  of  the  subregion,  the 
terrorist  threat  remains  present  and  persistent  and 
jeopardizes all our development efforts.
Terrorist  groups  linked  to  vast  criminal  networks 
of  all  kinds  of  heavily  armed  and  wealthy  traffickers 
continue  to  test  our  individual  response  capabilities. 
This  does  not  begin  to  cover  the  efforts  required  to 
address other security challenges such as mercenaries, 
the circulation and proliferation of weapons, poaching, 
deforestation,  piracy 
to 
environmental degradation.
conflicts 
and 
related 
Although it is true that the collective commitment 
and  determination  of  the  member  States  of  the  Lake 
Chad Basin Commission have led, within the framework 
of  the  Multinational  Joint  Task  Force,  to  the  military 
defeat  of  the  terrorist  group  Boko  Haram,  the  group 
clearly  remains  capable  of  causing  harm.  The  Group 
of  Five  for  the  Sahel  (G-5  Sahel)  member  countries 
are  working  just  as  hard  to  deal  with  other  terrorist 
groups operating in this area with their support base in 
southern Libya.
The 
fight  against 
terrorism  continues  with 
determination  from  our  States,  some  of  the  poorest 
in  the  world,  within  the  framework  of  both  the 
Multinational Joint Task Force and the G-5 Sahel. Such 
work is conducted on behalf and in the interest of all 
our  States  and  therefore  deserves  the  full  attention 
and  support  of  the  international  community,  more  so 
through  action  than  through  statements  and  promises 
often left unfulfilled.
Peace  and  security  are  essential  for  long-term 
progress  and  sustainable  development.  The  stability 
of a region has far-reaching benefits for neighbouring 
52/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
regions  and  beyond,  which  gives  rise  to  the  need 
for  a  comprehensive  approach  and  coherent  and 
coordinated collective action to address the root causes 
of terrorism and conflict, including poverty, ignorance 
and underdevelopment.
In this regard, I firmly reiterate the call made by 
the Heads of State of the G-5 Sahel member countries at 
their summit held on 6 February in Niamey, the Niger, 
asking  the  members  of  the  Security  Council  to  place 
the G-5 Sahel Joint Force, whose purpose is to fight the 
threat  of  terrorism,  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter 
of the United Nations, in order to secure its sustainable 
funding and a mandate commensurate with the scope 
of  this  international  threat.  The  operationalization 
and  increased  power  and  effectiveness  of  the  Force 
depend largely and fundamentally on the mobilization 
of resources dedicated to this cause. I would also like 
to  reiterate  our  sincere  thanks  to  Secretary-General 
António  Guterres  for  his  steadfast  commitment, 
principled  positions  and  advocacy  for  this  legitimate 
request of the G-5 Sahel.
the  path 
As  Chad  advances  on 
towards 
socioeconomic  development,  which  is  a  guarantee 
of  peace,  stability  and  security,  and  drawing  upon 
lessons from past and present experiences, my country 
intends to give priority to our partnerships to achieve 
concrete  results  measured  in  terms  of  improving  the 
living  conditions  of  our  people.  In  this  context,  we 
welcome  the  ongoing  reform  of  the  United  Nations 
Development  Support  System,  which  seeks  to  move 
away  from  an  assistance-based  model  to  emphasize 
resilience  through  sustainable  development.  We  hope 
that this new approach will take into account the need 
for  regular  dialogue,  the  genuine  needs  of  countries 
and their priorities when it comes to choosing projects, 
Government involvement in implementing, monitoring 
and evaluating projects, and the streamlining of project 
approval and disbursement procedures.
In  the  same  vein,  we  welcome  the  approach  of 
reviewing  the  United  Nations  integrated  strategy  for 
the Sahel through the United Nations Support Plan for 
the Sahel. We also stress the need to thoroughly involve 
the  countries  concerned  in  the  review  process  and  to 
take their priorities into account.
Despite  multiple  security,  environmental  and 
socioeconomic challenges, Chad initiated, in 2015, the 
drafting of two documents on its medium- and long-term 
development, “Vision 2030: the Chad we want”, and its 
first  five-year  national  development  plan  2017-2021, 
in  the  context  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
The  Government’s  approval  of  these  two  documents 
in  July  2017  was  followed  by  the  presentation  of  the 
national development plan at the round table in Paris in 
September 2017. I would like to take this opportunity to 
make, on behalf of my Government, a heartfelt call to 
all our partners to fulfil the pledges announced at the 
round table. Keeping these promises is vital for Chad.
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Chad,  well 
aware  of  the  prominent  role  played  by  women  in  the 
country’s development process, is tackling the gender 
issue as an essential component of and a key priority in 
the formulation and implementation of public policies. 
For  this  purpose,  through  a  law  adopted  on  22  May, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno,  President  of 
the  Republic  and  Head  of  State,  made  it  compulsory 
for  30  per  cent  of  all  civil  servant  appointments  and 
elective positions to be set aside for women, with the 
ultimate  goal  of  gradually  achieving  gender  parity. 
This  quota  has  already  shown  its  effectiveness  in 
its implementation.
In  addition,  we  have  taken  specific  measures 
to  ensure  the  development  of  women,  including  the 
promotion  of  girls’  education  and  the  adoption  of  a 
law prohibiting their early marriage. This law sets the 
minimum age for marriage at 18 years and provides for 
a prison term of five to 10 years for those who violate 
this prohibition.
The  Lake  Chad  Conventional  Basin  is  the  place 
where  the  dramatic  consequences  of  the  combined 
effect  of  terrorist  attacks  and  climate  change  on  the 
vulnerable populations, victims of these two scourges, 
as  well  as  on  the  environment,  are  most  visible.  We 
must remember that living around Lake Chad are more 
than 45 million people of diverse origin who bear the 
full brunt of the consequences of the drying up of Lake 
Chad,  seriously  undermining  their  livelihoods  and 
drastically limiting their resilience capabilities.
The surface area of the Lake Chad has decreased 
from  25,000  square  kilometres  40  years  ago  to  less 
than  2,500  square  kilometres,  and  the  risk  of  its 
disappearance is very real. The efforts of four riparian 
countries and other members of the Lake Chad Basin 
Commission aimed at saving it are far from adequate to 
respond to the enormity of the task alone. The gradual 
disappearance  of  Lake  Chad  constitutes  a  major 
ecological disaster with serious consequences for food 
18-30110
53/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
security and stability in the Sahel, as evidenced by the 
scarcity of natural resources and the development of the 
terrorist threat. That is why the international community 
as a whole must mobilize to lobby to save Lake Chad 
by supporting the joint initiative of UNESCO and the 
Lake Chad Basin Commission to register Lake Chad as 
a biosphere reservation and a World Heritage Site.
The 
international  community 
is  capable  of 
achieving  and  must  help  to  achieve  this  noble  goal, 
which    is  perfectly  aligned  with  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development.  In  this  regard,  Chad  once 
again  urges  all  parties  to  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda 
to fulfil their commitments.
remains  one  of 
Migration  management 
the 
greatest challenges of our time. Thousands of African 
migrants, driven by desperation, are constantly trying 
to reach Europe and risking their lives in the process. 
The  flow  of  migrants  will  not  cease  so  long  as  the 
root  causes  of  migration  persist,  including  poverty, 
underdevelopment, conflict and lack of opportunity for 
African  young  people.  In  addition  to  this  are  factors 
such as demographic pressure and the adverse effects of 
climate change, further accentuating the vulnerability 
of  African  societies.  In  the  absence  of  appropriate 
sustainable  migration  management  mechanisms  that 
take into account the root causes of the phenomenon, 
we  will  never  be  able  to  put  an  end  to  the  tragedy  of 
thousands  of  people  dying  at  sea  or  in  the  desert  or 
to  scenes  from  another  era,  such  as  that  of  African 
migrants being sold at auction as slaves.
In that regard, we must all make a significant effort 
to  promote  economic  and  social  development  in  the 
countries of origin and transit of migrants in order to 
stabilize the situation. Improving our cooperation with 
those countries is the best way to curb illegal migration. 
Similarly, urgent measures must be taken to help those 
currently trapped in transit camps or caught in situations 
of slavery or serious violence. We must collectively call 
on States where migrants are subjected to such violence 
to respect their basic rights and to bring their migration 
management methods in line with the rule of law. The 
best way for all of us to address migration challenges is 
to put in place flexible mechanisms for legal migration 
and to consider these phenomena, which have existed 
since time immemorial, as a means of bringing people 
closer together and not as a threat.
At  the  continental  and  international  levels,  Chad, 
while  remaining  concerned  about  the  persistence  of 
conflict  zones  here  and  there,  welcomes  the  progress 
made  in  some  countries.  In  the  Central  African 
Republic,  Chad  welcomes  the  commitment  of  the 
Central African authorities and the 14 armed groups to 
entering the path of dialogue under the auspices of the 
Panel of Facilitators of the African Initiative for Peace 
and  Reconciliation  in  the  Central  African  Republic. 
Chad  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  African  Initiative, 
which  is  led  by  the  African  Union  and  supported  by 
the entire international community. The restoration of 
trust and the beginning of true reconciliation are within 
the reach of the brotherly Central African people. We 
call on all bilateral and multilateral partners to provide 
the necessary resources for the implementation of the 
African Initiative.
In  Mali,  Chad  welcomes  the  successful  holding 
of  peaceful  presidential  elections  and 
reiterates 
its  congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim 
Boubacar  Keita  on  his  decisive  re-election,  which 
reflects  the  commitment  of  the  Malian  people  to  the 
ongoing political process and peace. Chad encourages 
all  Malian  stakeholders 
the 
Agreement  on  Peace  and  Reconciliation  in  Mali,  and 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  supporting  Mali  in  its 
stabilization phase.
implement 
to  fully 
In South Sudan, Chad welcomes the peace agreement 
recently  signed  in  Addis  Ababa  by  South  Sudanese 
actors  and  congratulates 
Intergovernmental 
Authority on Development on the fruits of its tireless 
efforts.  Chad  urges  all  parties  to  the  agreement  to 
implement it in good faith.
the 
Chad also welcomes the very positive developments 
the  Horn  of  Africa,  characterized  by 
the 
in 
rapprochement  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  as  well 
as that between Eritrea and Djibouti, and hopes to see 
these processes continue.
In Libya, Chad calls on all Libyan parties to give 
priority  to  dialogue  and  reconciliation  over  armed 
conflict. We encourage them to use their goodwill and 
common sense to turn the page on violence. In this regard, 
the  international  community  must  facilitate  dialogue 
and  inclusive  reconciliation  as  an  immediate  priority 
with a view to restoring peace and ultimately holding 
credible, transparent and peaceful elections. It should 
be recalled that the Libyan crisis has serious security 
consequences  for  neighbouring  countries,  including 
54/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
Chad, as a result of the chaos in southern Libya, which 
is  a  lawless  area  that  serves  as  a  haven  for  terrorist 
groups,  mercenary  gangs  and  all  kinds  of  traffickers. 
In this regard, we invite all our partners to support the 
efforts undertaken by Libya, the Niger, the Sudan and 
Chad within the framework of the agreement signed on 
31 May in N’Djamena among the four countries, with a 
view to securing their common borders.
In  Yemen,  Chad  reaffirms  its  support  for  United 
Nations  efforts  to  promote  a  political  solution  to  the 
crisis  and  urges  the  Yemeni  actors  concerned  to  give 
priority  to  dialogue  and  comply  with  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions.
In  Syria,  Chad  reiterates  its  support  for  United 
Nations  mediation  efforts  and  calls  on  the  parties  to 
the  conflict  to  put  an  end  to  the  suffering  they  have 
inflicted  on  their  people  for  more  than  seven  years 
by  ending  the  violence  and  committing  themselves 
resolutely to dialogue and reconciliation. Chad calls on 
the  belligerents  to  respect  international  humanitarian 
law and to facilitate the delivery of aid to civilians.
With  regard  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict, 
Chad reiterates its commitment to a two-State solution 
with Israel and Palestine living side by side in peace, 
stability and security within the June 1967 borders and 
with East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine.
With  regard  to  Cuba,  Chad  notes  with  concern 
the  deterioration  of  that  country’s  relations  with  the 
United States and encourages both sides to continue the 
process of normalizing their relations. Chad reiterates 
its call for the lifting of the embargo imposed on Cuba.
I cannot conclude my remarks without addressing 
the  issue  of  United  Nations  reform,  namely,  Security 
Council reform, which remains a major ongoing concern 
for  Africa.  Chad  stresses  the  urgent  need  to  redress 
the  injustice  done  to  Africa  by  accelerating  the  long-
awaited reform to reflect the realities of today’s world 
in  the  United  Nations  system.  The  African  common 
position on this point deserves to be taken into account 
by  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  if  we 
genuinely want to involve Africa in global governance. 
Like it or not, the Africa of the twenty-first century is 
indispensable, and its voice must be heard by the rest 
of the world.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr.  Mamadi  Touré,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
for Guineans Abroad of the Republic of Guinea.
Mr.  Touré  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, on behalf of the President, the Government and 
the people of the Republic of Guinea, I would like to 
convey our sincere condolences on the death of Mr. Kofi 
Annan,  a  great  son  of  Africa  and  former  Secretary-
General of the United Nations, who dedicated his life 
to  promoting  peace,  international  humanitarian  law 
and multilateralism.
My  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
President on her election to lead the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session  and  to  assure  her  of  its 
support  for  the  success  of  her  term.  Guinea  would 
like to pay a well-deserved tribute to her predecessor, 
Mr. Miroslav Lajcák, for his inclusive presidency of the 
General Assembly at its seventy-second session, during 
a crucial period of reform of our Organization.
My 
delegation 
also  warmly 
congratulates 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  on  his  vision 
and  the  commendable  efforts  he  has  taken  to  give 
a  new  impetus  to  the  United  Nations,  which  is  beset 
by  political,  economic  and  social  challenges  in  an 
ever-changing  international  context.  It  is  clear  that, 
in  addressing  those  challenges,  we  must  give  priority 
to  new,  more  pragmatic,  effective  and  coordinated 
approaches  to  achieving  the  objectives  set  out  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
The seventy-third session, under this year’s theme 
of “Making the United Nations relevant to all people: 
global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for 
peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  calls 
on  us  to  urgently  strengthen  the  global  leadership  of 
the  United  Nations  with  respect  to  the  requirements 
of  reform  and  the  aspirations  contained  in  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  We  must  recall 
that  the  United  Nations  was  created  in  the  aftermath 
of one of humankind’s most devastating wars, suffered 
the  stigma  of  the  Cold  War  and  was  shaken  by  the 
turbulences  linked  to  the  end  of  that  same  Cold  War. 
However,  it  has  resisted  all  attempts  to  weaken  it  by 
making  it  ineffective  at  managing  certain  crises  that 
threaten peace and stability throughout the world.
In an increasingly interdependent world, the United 
Nations  is  the  only  multilateral  platform  capable  of 
adopting  a  global  and  concerted  approach  in  seeking 
solutions  to  the  many  challenges  it  faces.  During  a 
period  of  deep  crisis  for  the  Organization,  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan recalled the following:
18-30110
55/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
“[A]  group  of  far-sighted  leaders...  saw  that  the 
human race had only one world to live in, and that 
unless it managed its affairs prudently, all human 
beings might perish. So they drew up rules to govern 
international  behaviour  and  founded  a  network  of 
institutions, with the United Nations at its centre, in 
which the peoples of the world could work together 
for the common good.” (A/58/PV.7, p.3)
Today,  the  purposes  and  principles  contained 
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  remain  more 
relevant  than  ever.  The  universality  of  the  United 
Nations  in  maintaining  international  peace,  security 
and  prosperity  in  the  world  is  confirmed  on  a  daily 
basis. The multiple fields of action make it possible to 
assist  Member  States  in  their  development  processes. 
That is why we must remain determined and resolutely 
committed to implementing the reforms that are crucial 
for our Organization.
The  Republic  of  Guinea  supports  that  ongoing 
reform  process, 
initiated  by  Secretary-General, 
in  particular  in  the  pillars  of  peace,  security  and 
sustainable development. Guinea cannot insist enough 
on the need for Security Council reform. It is time to 
take  into  account  Africa’s  demographic,  political  and 
economic importance in order to give it the role it can 
and must play on the international stage and to redress 
the  injustice  the  continent  has  suffered  by  granting 
it  two  permanent  seats  and  as  many  non-permanent 
seats.  The  results  of  the  reform  must  ultimately  lead 
to  the  establishment  of  a  fair  and  equitable  system 
of  international  cooperation  based  on  solidarity  and 
shared responsibility.
The seventy-third session of the General Assembly 
coincides this year with the sixtieth anniversary of the 
Republic of Guinea’s independence, on 2 October 1958. 
In the same year, it joined the Organization as the eighty-
second  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  As  we 
celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of our independence, 
we  will  be  flying  the  flag  of  pan-Africanism.  It  is 
clear that the United Nations has been and remains for 
Guinea a multilateral forum that has enabled it to realize 
the  ideals  for  it  has  struggled  so  much,  including  its 
pan-African  vision  of  independence,  the  fight  against 
apartheid, the promotion of peace and security, and the 
socioeconomic development of the continent.
Today,  under 
the  dynamic 
the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  our  country  has  made  significant 
leadership  of 
progress in the economic and social fields, which can 
guarantee  a  better  future  for  the  people  of  Guinea. 
The  megaprojects  carried  out  in  the  energy  and 
agriculture  sectors  and  the  creation  of  infrastructure 
that is crucial to development have been welcomed by 
the  Guinean  people  because  they  are  convinced  that 
those  achievements  will  certainly  lead  to  Guinea’s 
development by 2040.
Based  on  the  priorities  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development and the 2063 Agenda of the 
African  Union,  Guinea  has  focused  on  the  ownership 
and implementation of the 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals. In this context, our country, at the third High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development, 
presented  its  first  voluntary  national  review  —  for 
2018 — on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. That 
was a timely opportunity for my country to share with 
other  Member  States  its  experience  in  the  process  of 
implementing its sustainable development programme 
by 2040.
The  Government’s  determination  to  contribute  to 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 
was  supported  by  the  2016-2020  national  economic 
and  social  development  plan,  guided  by  the  forward-
looking  “Guinea  Vision  2040”  plan,  which  aims  to 
make development planning the appropriate instrument 
for  achieving  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  In 
this  regard,  Guinea  is  counting  on  the  support  of  the 
United Nations and other partners.
The  Government  strongly  appreciates  the  new 
climate  of  dialogue  for  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
peace  in  Africa,  as  peace  and  security  are  essential 
conditions  for  inclusive  development.  The  tangible 
progress achieved in the strategic partnerships between 
the  United  Nations  and  African  peace  missions,  as 
well  as  the  significant  progress  in  crisis  management 
in  Guinea-Bissau,  South  Sudan,  Somalia  and  in  the 
disputes  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  and  between 
Eritrea  and  Djibouti,  confirm  once  again  the  need 
to  continue  to  focus  on  political  solutions  to  create  a 
peaceful environment conducive to development.
We  are  convinced  that  substantial  investments 
in  conflict  prevention  and  the  quest  for  political 
solutions will save humankind countless lives and the 
destruction  of  infrastructure.  However,  these  positive 
developments  that  have  been  made  here  and  there 
should not distract us from our common struggle against 
international terrorism and violent extremism. That is 
56/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
why  my  delegation  strongly  condemns  the  barbaric 
acts committed against innocent people in Africa and 
throughout  the  world.  It  urges  the  major  Powers  to 
support Africa in its fight against these scourges and to 
support the Group of Five for the Sahel in confronting 
the  atrocities  committed  by  terrorist  groups  so  as  to 
restore lasting peace in the Sahel region.
Guinea welcomes the implementation of the United 
Nations  Support  Plan  for  the  Sahel,  entitled  “Sahel, 
Land  of  Opportunities”,  which  targets  10  countries, 
including  Guinea.  The  plan  focuses  on  six  key  areas: 
cross-border  cooperation,  prevention,  peacekeeping, 
inclusive  growth,  climate  and  renewable  energy. 
Partnerships  with  Member  States,  regional  economic 
communities, civil society and donors will facilitate the 
implementation  of  various  development  projects,  help 
to  fight  extreme  poverty,  improve  the  humanitarian 
situation,  strengthen  resilience  to  change  and  reduce 
the scourge of food insecurity.
If  there  is  another  situation  where  the  role  of  the 
United Nations remains indisputable, it is the conflict 
in  the  Middle  East,  which  remains  a  major  concern 
for  the  international  community.  Guinea  has  always 
unambiguously  expressed  its  unconditional  solidarity 
with the just cause of the Palestinian people. We remain 
convinced  that  any  viable  and  sustainable  solution  in 
the  Middle  East  necessarily  means  respecting  and 
implementing the relevant Security Council resolutions 
that  call  for  the  creation  of  two  States  living  side  by 
side  in  security  and within  safe  and  internationally 
recognized borders.
Conflicts  — 
protracted 
crises — environmental degradation and human rights 
violations  continue  to  increase  humanitarian  needs, 
which  are  currently  estimated  at  nearly  $22.5  billion. 
However,  the  mobilization  of  funds  is  hampered  not 
only by a lack of solidarity but also the drastic cuts to 
the United Nations budget. That is why the management 
of generated funds must be transparent and inclusive.
in 
particular 
Of  all  the  humanitarian  challenges,  the  issue  of 
human  mobility  is  the  most  consequential  for  us  and 
therefore requires greater solidarity and the sharing of 
responsibilities. That is why we welcome the advent of the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, 
which  is  a  source  of  hope  for  more  than  258  million 
international migrants, composed largely of women and 
children. This important document, which the Republic 
of  Guinea  will  adopt  in  December  in  Marrakech, 
will  strike a  balance  between  State  sovereignty  and 
fundamental  rights.  The  compact  is  fundamentally 
aligned  with  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals,  the 
Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the New York 
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants, while providing 
an important monitoring mechanism.
The achievement of social well-being through the 
Sustainable Development Goals can be made possible 
only  if  we  succeed  in  ridding  our  world  of  recurring 
diseases.  It  is  therefore  important  to  strengthen  our 
solidarity  in  the  fight  against  communicable  and 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  continue 
to 
decimate  a  large  part  of  the  world’s  population.  My 
delegation  welcomes  the  steps  taken  and  the  progress 
made in effectively eradicating tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS 
and  other  diseases.  We  wholeheartedly  support  the 
United Nations project for universal health coverage.
The  creation  of  an  inclusive  society  underpins 
the elimination of inequalities and social barriers that 
prevent  the  participation  of  young  people  and  women 
in  economic  and  political  activities.  Gender  equality 
and the promotion and empowerment of young people 
and  women  are  fundamental  to  achieving  sustainable 
development  and  must  be  taken  into  account  in 
development policies.
I take this opportunity to congratulate the Secretary-
General, who has been working since his inauguration 
for  the  achievement  of  parity  through  appointments 
to the higher bodies of the United Nations. We have a 
responsibility  to  perpetuate  that  good  practice  within 
the United Nations and other international and national 
institutions,  as  it  is  in  line  with  the  agreements  on 
gender and women’s rights.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  emphasizing  that  the 
United  Nations  remains  the  only  institution  that  can 
maintain  global  balance  and  ensure  our  collective 
security  and  shared  prosperity.  Any withdrawal  into 
ourselves would be detrimental to peace and stability 
around  the  world.  Multilateralism  therefore  remains 
the  only  way  forward  to  effectively  achieve  the  goals 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Mohamed Siala, Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and International Cooperation of the State of Libya.
Mr.  Siala  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As  His 
Excellency  President  Faiez  Serraj  is  unable  to  attend 
the general debate at this year’s session of the General 
18-30110
57/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
Assembly  due  to  the  latest  developments  in  Tripoli, 
he has asked me to deliver the following statement on 
his behalf:
 “At the outset, allow me, Sir, to congratulate, 
through  you,  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa 
Garcés on her election to preside over the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. I would like 
to wish her every success and assure her of our full 
cooperation as she works to realize the goals of this 
session. I also thank her predecessor Mr. Miroslav 
Lajčák  for  the  efforts  he  made  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  during  the  seventy-second 
session.  In  addition,  I  would  like  to  commend 
Secretary-General António Guterres for the efforts 
he has made to fulfil the purposes and objectives of 
the United Nations.
“Undoubtedly,  the  situation  of  my  country, 
Libya, continues to draw the attention of the United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  as  a 
whole and still requires monitoring. We appreciate 
and respect all those who have made sincere efforts 
to help us overcome the difficult circumstances in 
which  we  find  ourself  and  the  challenges  we  are 
facing. We underscore the need to coordinate and 
integrate  these  efforts  and  to  avoid  rivalries  or 
divergences when initiatives are launched, because 
failure to do so diminishes our capacity to respond 
to  the  crisis.  We  believe  that,  before  holding  any 
regional  or  international  meeting  on  the  Libyan 
issue, it is important that there be coordination with 
the United Nations so as to ensure that the outcome 
is compatible with the United Nations vision for the 
resolution of the Libyan crisis.
“Since 
its  establishment, 
the  Presidency 
Council of the Government of National Accord of 
Libya  has  recognized  the  scope  of  the  challenges 
that the country is facing, namely, the upsurge in 
terrorism, political divergences, security instability 
and  an  exacerbated  economic  crisis,  all  of  which 
has had an impact on the delivery of the  necessary 
basic services and therefore on the lives of Libyans 
themselves.  We  remain  committed  to  finding 
expeditious solutions to these challenges. Last year, 
we proposed a road map for overcoming the crisis 
based  on  holding  presidential  and  parliamentary 
elections, putting an end to all fighting except the 
fight against terrorism, and providing the necessary 
conditions for national reconciliation. In our view, 
this  approach  would  unify  national  institutions 
and  allow  us  to  create  a  modern  democratic 
State. However, even though the relevant national 
institutions  have  not  shown  any  reciprocity,  we 
nevertheless  remain  hopeful,  reaching  out  to  all 
with  determination  and  sincere  initiatives,  with 
a view to breaking the political deadlock that has 
brought such frustration to the people of Libya and 
the State alike.
“We  highly  commend  the  ongoing  efforts  of 
Mr.  Ghassan  Salamé,  Special  Representative  of 
the  Secretary-General  for  Libya,  and  his  team, 
aimed  at  bringing  together  the  points  of  view  of 
the  Libyan  parties  and  seeking  solutions  to  the 
wide range of issues and challenges we are facing. 
In this regard, I would recall that the Government 
of  National  Accord  welcomed  the  road  map 
proposed by Mr. Salamé at the high-level meeting 
on  Libya  in  September  2017.  The  Government 
encouraged all relevant parties to show flexibility 
so that consensus on amendments related to certain 
controversial items in the Political Agreement could 
be  quickly  reached,  thereby  creating  momentum 
towards  implementing  the  remaining  steps  of  the 
plan. Unfortunately, no progress has been made.
“The  Presidency  Council  of  the  Government 
of  National  Accord  supports  any  path  leading  to 
a  comprehensive  political  solution,  which  is  why 
we have engaged in dialogue with those calling for 
general elections as a way out of the political crisis. 
We  have  facilitated  the  High  National  Electoral 
Commission’s  efforts  to  register  voters,  and  the 
results  have  been  very  encouraging.  The  number 
of  voters  registered  has  been  unprecedented, 
surpassing  our  expectations  and  reflecting  the 
desire of Libyans to have elections held. We have 
also  allocated  60  million  Libyan  dinars  to  the 
Commission in order to prepare for the elections. 
We have worked with the relevant parties to ensure 
the  security  conditions  needed  for  elections  to  be 
held  in  complete  freedom  and  integrity.  We  hope 
that  this  expression  of  the  will  of  the  people  will 
be  acted  upon  by  the  relevant  institutions,  which 
must commit to seeing that the country’s interests 
prevail,  to  making  all  necessary  legislative  and 
legal  arrangements  to  end  the  political  stalemate 
and  to  bringing  all  State  institutions  together  to 
resolve  the  various  problems  being  faced  by  the 
Libyan people.
58/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
“We underscore our determination to continue 
making efforts to get the country out of its crises. 
We will strongly oppose all who attempt to impose 
their  will  through  the  use  of  weapons.  We  have 
condemned the military attacks that took place in 
the suburbs of Tripoli city a few weeks ago, which 
led  to  gross  material  damage  and  loss  of  human 
lives, terrorizing women and children and forcibly 
displacing innocent civilians. .
“We highly appreciate the efforts of the United 
Nations  Support  Mission  in  Libya  (UNSMIL), 
under  the  leadership  of  Mr.  Ghassan  Salamé,  to 
bring  about  a  ceasefire  agreement,  and  we  call 
on  all  relevant  parties  to  respect  that  ceasefire.  I 
give  my  word  that  the  national  and  international 
judicial bodies will be seized with the prosecution 
of  the  perpetrators  of  attacks  for  the  suffering 
they caused.
“We  are  also  determined  to  take  the  security 
measures  needed  to  unify  the  country’s  military 
and  security  institutions  and  establish  security 
and  peace  in  Libya,  as  stipulated  by  the  Political 
Agreement. We wish to underline once again that 
the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  weapons  only  benefits 
terrorists who, amid the chaos, find opportunities 
to carry out their criminal acts. We saw this in the 
terrorist  attacks  in  Tripoli  that  targeted  the  High 
National  Electoral  Commission  and  the  national 
oil  company.  Accordingly,  priority  must  be  given 
to  security  and  stability  as  an  indispensable  goal 
and  urgent  step  that  also  requires  active  support 
from the United Nations. We therefore believe that 
it is important to convert UNSMIL from a special 
political  mission  to  a  mission  whose  purpose  is 
to  establish  and  support  security  and  stability 
throughout the country.
“The Government of National Accord is striving 
to  find  solutions  to  the  difficult  living  conditions 
and  lack  of  services  that  Libyans  are  facing.  It 
has  launched  economic  reforms  to  facilitate  and 
improve  the  living  conditions  of  our  citizens  and 
to enhance the performance of a hitherto unstable 
service sector. In this regard, we attach particular 
importance  to  mobilizing  financial  resources  to 
respond  to  the  needs  of  our  people.  We  call  on 
all States holding Libyan assets or funds to make 
the  necessary  arrangements  for  the  Presidency 
Council to be able to cover the costs of policies and 
programmes designed to help all Libyans.
“My 
country 
its 
reiterates 
absolute 
condemnation and rejection of terrorism in all its 
forms and manifestations, regardless of its origin, 
perpetrators  or  motives.  We  underscore 
that 
terrorism is a global phenomenon that should not be 
linked to any religion or doctrine. As the Assembly 
is aware, my country has made enormous sacrifices 
to  eradicate  terrorist  organizations  with  foreign 
fighters in their ranks, including Da’esh, which was 
exported to us from abroad. Not only does Da’esh 
threaten the security and stability of Libya, but it 
also exploits our natural resources for its own benefit 
as  it  carries  out  its  bloodthirsty  agenda —  one,  I 
would  add,  that  has  no  link  to  Islam.  Libya  has 
ratified all international conventions related to the 
fight  against  terrorism  and  considers  the  United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy and its 
four pillars one of the most important international 
legal  frameworks  to  guide  national  legislation  in 
fighting the phenomenon of terrorism.
“The  dangers  posed  by  terrorist  networks 
remain  in  Libya,  requiring  us  to  be  vigilant  and 
to  strengthen  joint  coordination  at  all  levels  as 
well  as  regional  and  international  cooperation  so 
that terrorists can be tracked down and eliminated 
wherever they are. It is also important that regional 
and subregional plans and programmes, including, 
for example, the outcomes of ministerial meetings 
on  bolstering  cooperation  in  the  field  of  security 
and joint monitoring of borders, continue to receive 
support. The most recent meeting on this topic was 
held in the Sudanese capital, with the participation 
of the Sudan, the Niger, Chad and Libya, resulting in 
a joint action plan to implement the agreement that 
had  been  previously  concluded  in  N’Djamena  by 
those four States. We hope that this action plan will 
receive support from the international community. 
We have expressed our support for all international 
efforts aimed at fighting terrorism and underscored 
on many occasions our support for calls for holding 
an  international  high-level  conference  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  on  ways  to  unify 
efforts in that regard.
“With respect to human rights, we emphasize 
our  determination  to  uphold  and  protect  them. 
As  proof  of  our  commitment  in  that  domain,  we 
have  adopted  several  laws,  including  those  on 
establishing  political  parties,  legalizing  peaceful 
demonstrations, criminalizing torture and enforced 
18-30110
59/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
disappearances,  amending  the  penal  code  and 
codifying  transitional  justice.  This  legislation, 
which  will  soon  enter  into  force,  is  designed  to 
promote tolerance and harmony among members of 
our national community.
services 
educational 
“With regard to economic, social and cultural 
rights,  the  Government  of  National  Accord  has 
continually  sought  to  promote  women’s  rights 
and  gender  equality,  while  providing  free  and 
ongoing 
and  medical 
care  to  all  citizens.  Pursuant  to  article  7  of  the 
Constitutional Declaration, which calls for joining 
all  international  and  regional  conventions  and 
charters related to strengthening human rights, we 
have ratified some of those conventions, including 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities, to which Libya is now a party.
to 
“We  once  again  wish 
reiterate  our 
commitment  to  protecting  and  upholding  human 
rights.  However,  we  note  that  current  difficulties 
in  the  transitional  period  have  given  rise  to 
certain  security  challenges 
to 
human  rights  violations.  In  this  regard,  we  look 
forward  to  benefiting  from  technical  assistance 
mechanisms from the Human Rights Council and 
other programmes and specialized agencies of the 
United Nations.
that  have 
led 
“My country pays great attention to the issue of 
illegal migration. We seek to address the ongoing 
flow  of  migrants  being  exploited  by  human 
trafficking  networks,  thousands  of  whom  have 
perished at sea. This kind of migration is causing 
human suffering that the international community 
has  been  unable  to  address  until  now.  Libya  is  a 
transit  country  that  is  facing  serious  economic, 
social  and  security  consequences  as  a  result  of 
the  migration  phenomenon;  indeed,  the  migration 
issue has clearly exacerbated the state of insecurity 
in  Libya,  causing  many  difficulties  and  problems 
across  Libyan  society.  It  is  difficult  to  limit  the 
repercussions  of  the  phenomenon  without  foreign 
cooperation and assistance commensurate with the 
scope of these challenges and their consequences. 
Clearly, the optimal solution does not lie in dealing 
with  it  merely  as  a  problem  of  security.  We  need 
to  focus  on  the  real  underlying  causes  that  push 
people to seek the daunting path of migration.
the 
“Accordingly,  we  welcome 
efforts 
undertaken to reach an international agreement for 
safe, orderly and regular migration, to be adopted 
at the intergovernmental conference to be held in 
Marrakech,  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  in  December. 
Nevertheless,  we  would  have  liked  to  see  the 
draft  agreement  deal  with  this  issue  in  a  broader 
manner. We agree on the need to protect the rights 
of  migrants  as  much  as  possible.  However,  the 
current and increasing flow of migrants excessively 
burdens  national  potentials  and  capabilities  to 
such an extent that migrants’ rights can rarely be 
guaranteed.
“I 
that 
the 
firmly  believe 
international 
community should support countries of origin and 
encourage them to develop and implement effective 
development  programmes  and  projects,  thereby 
enhancing  their  productive  and  services  sectors, 
so that poverty, unemployment and other forms of 
deprivation fall away and people can stop thinking 
of irregular and dangerous emigration as a solution.
“My country pays great attention to issues of 
disarmament and the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security.  It  actively  participates  in  the 
deliberations  in  various  forums  on  those  issues 
and actively supports many decisions taken by the 
United  Nations  in  the  field.  We  fully  endorse  the 
relevant  international  treaties  and  conventions, 
cognizant of the fact that producing and stockpiling 
weapons  of  mass  destruction 
to 
international  peace  and  security,  which  horrifies 
all members of the human race.
has 
in 
international  disarmament  efforts 
to 
weapons of mass destruction and the maintenance 
of international peace and security. In this regard, I 
would like to recall that after joining the Chemical 
Weapons  Convention,  my  country  promptly 
addressed  its  chemical  stock,  in  cooperation  and 
coordination with the secretariat of the Convention 
and its international partners, which eventually led 
us to destroying our chemical stocks.
participated 
related 
“Moreover,  Libya 
threat 
is  a 
“We  reaffirm  our  support  for  international 
efforts  aimed  at  establishing  nuclear-weapon  free 
zones. We stress that the Middle East region as a 
whole should be free of weapons of mass destruction 
and that all countries in the region should declare 
that they possess such weapons or have the intention 
60/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
to do so. All countries in the region must also join 
the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons.
“At the same time, we would like to underscore 
the  right  of  States  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy. States that have abandoned weapons of mass 
destruction  should  be  supported  and  encouraged 
to  train  people  in  the  area  of  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear  energy  so  that  they  might  acquire  the 
necessary technical knowledge to pursue such uses.
“Three  years  have  elapsed  since  the  2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development,  which  is 
focused  on  17  ambitious  goals,  was  adopted  by 
the Heads of State and Government. We in Libya 
are  facing  many  challenges  in  the  achievement 
of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs), 
mostly  due  to  political  and  security  instability. 
The Assembly is aware that development is closely 
linked  to  security;  indeed,  as  is  well  known, 
there  is  no  development  without  security  and  no 
security  without  development.  We  look  forward 
to moving past these difficulties and to launching 
development plans and programmes to improve our 
economy and start focusing on attaining the SDGs.
“The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing 
for  Development  stress  the  need  of  countries 
to  mobilize  financial  resources  to  achieve  their 
development  goals.  My  country,  Libya,  is  one  of 
the  countries  whose  funds  have  been  transferred 
abroad.  We  therefore  call  on  States  holding  our 
funds to disclose that fact and help us recover them 
so that we can begin to implement the Sustainable 
Development Goals in a serious manner.
“Accordingly,  we  would  like  to  recall  the 
frozen  Libyan  funds  and  assets  of  the  Libyan 
sovereign  wealth  fund,  which  is  incurring  losses 
as  a  result  of  the  sanctions  imposed  by  the  many 
Security  Council  resolutions  adopted  since  2011. 
We underscore that the purpose of those sanctions 
was  to  preserve  Libyan  funds  and  assets,  rather 
than deplete them. However, the assets freeze has 
caused  those  funds  and  assets  to  incur  enormous 
ongoing 
losses.  Since  March  2016,  we  have 
provided  the  Security  Council  and  the  relevant 
sanctions committee with clear information about 
our losses, and have appealed to them to amend the 
current sanctions regime so that we can put a stop 
to  these  huge  losses.  Unfortunately,  we  have  not 
seen any action taken in response to our justified 
requests. If nothing changes, the wasting of frozen 
Libyan resources would in essence deprive Libyans 
of funds that could be invested in their future.
supports 
“My  delegation 
the  Secretary-
General’s  proposed  reforms  of  certain  United 
Nations  bodies,  and  we  hope  that  these  reforms 
lead  us  to  fulfilling  the  commitments  set  forth 
in  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome,  namely,  to 
consolidate  the  authority  of  the  Organization  and 
ensure  its  effectiveness  and  ability  to  properly 
address all current challenges. Despite the progress 
that has been made elsewhere, the Security Council, 
the most important organ in the Organization, has 
yet to implement any reform. It is therefore crucial 
that the Security Council, which no longer reflects 
the realities of the world of the twenty-first century, 
undertake genuine reform.
“In 
the 
face  of 
the  serious  challenges 
threatening  international  peace  and  security,  the 
current  geopolitical  situation  calls  for  a  reform 
process  that  results  in  equitable  representation  in 
the  Council.  We  call  for  an  end  to  the  historical 
injustice  suffered  by  the  African  continent  with 
regard to its unfair representation in the permanent 
and non-permanent categories of Security Council 
membership.  We  underline  the  African  demand 
contained in the Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte 
Declaration, namely, two permanent seats with all 
rights and powers, including the right to veto, and 
two  non-permanent  seats.  This  demand  is  in  line 
with  the  requirements  of  justice  and  the  right  of 
the  African  continent  to  effectively  participate  in 
the decisions made by the Council, particularly in 
the  light  of  the  fact  that  many  such  decisions  are 
on  African  issues.  The  African  demand  reflects 
the  right  of  the  continent  to  a  minimum  of  fair 
representation  in  the  Council  and  offsets  the 
marginalization and historical injustice that Africa 
has  suffered.  Accordingly,  we  also  support  the 
demand by the Group of Arab States to be granted 
a permanent seat on the Council.
“Peace in the Middle East will not be achieved 
as long as the occupying Power continues to shed 
the  blood  of  innocent  Palestinians,  confiscate 
their  land,  build  settlements,  impose  an  unjust 
siege  on  the  Palestinian  people,  seek  by  any 
means to Judaize Jerusalem, and flout all relevant 
18-30110
61/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
international  resolutions.  We  join  the  Palestinian 
people  in  rejecting  the  announcement  by  the 
occupying Power that Israel is a Jewish nation State. 
This  announcement  risks  triggering  dangerous 
escalation and improperly resolving the Palestinian 
question by removing native Palestinians from their 
ancestral lands and allowing them to be replaced by 
Jewish settlers. Such practices have been soundly 
rejected as racist.
“Furthermore,  we  reject  attempts  to  change 
the  legal  status  of  occupied  Jerusalem,  including 
attempts  by  certain  States  to  use  a  policy  of  fait 
accompli, 
their 
embassies in Israel to the city of Jerusalem as the 
capital of the State of Israel. These attempts violate 
relevant  General  Assembly  and  Security  Council 
resolutions.
for  example  by 
transferring 
“We underscore our support for the Palestinian 
people  and  their  right  to  self-determination  and 
to  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We  call  for  the 
protection  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  demand 
that the occupying Power cease all acts of violence, 
terrorism, 
repeated  attacks 
against them.
settlements  and 
“Not  far  from  occupied  Palestine,  in  some 
regions of Syria, the brotherly Syrian people have 
been facing disastrous humanitarian situations for 
years as a result of a destructive conflict that has 
caused immense human and material damage and 
led to the displacement of many innocent people. We 
condemn all brutal terrorist acts committed against 
the  Syrian  people  and  support  all  international 
efforts  aimed  at  finding  a  peaceful  solution  that 
would  avoid  dismantling  and  partitioning  the 
country.  We  also  support  international  efforts 
aimed  at  fulfilling  the  aspirations  of  the  Syrian 
people to live a decent life in a democratic country 
governed  by  the  rule  of  law,  where  human  rights 
are maintained and respected.
“With 
regard 
to  our  brotherly  country 
Yemen, we express deep concern at the disastrous 
humanitarian  situation  unfolding  there.  We  have 
spoken  out  against  the  continuing  conflict  that  is 
clearly threatening the security, stability and unity 
of  Yemeni  society,  as  well  as  the  security  of  the 
region  as  a  whole.  In  this  context,  we  support  all 
efforts aimed at stopping the bloodshed in Yemen 
and  at  alleviating  the  suffering  of  the  brotherly 
Yemeni people.
“In conclusion, I would like to stress that today’s 
challenges,  whether  they  be  security,  economic, 
social  or  other  types  of  challenge,  require  that 
we all work together to strengthen the role of the 
United Nations so that it can adapt to developments 
in the international arena and resolve conflicts and 
crises through peaceful means.”
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
Several  speakers  have  asked  to  speak  in  exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited to 
10 minutes for the first intervention and to five minutes 
for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Al-Khalifa  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Qatari  delegation  has  requested  the  floor  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  following  the  statement 
by the representative of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
in  which  he  made  false  and  unacceptable  accusations 
against my country. More than a year after the unjust 
embargo  was  imposed  on  Qatar,  we  can  assert  that 
it  failed  to  achieve  its  goals.  However,  the  Saudi 
accusations,  intended  to  undermine  the  reputation  of 
my country, are nothing new.
As  has  been  clearly  shown,  Qatar  has  always 
cooperated with the international community. Indeed, 
we  have  made  efforts  to  fight  terrorism  by  cutting 
off the flow of resources to it, combat radicalism and 
achieve  sustainable  peace.  The  Saudi  accusations  are 
not  worthy  of  a  response.  However,  it  should  be  said 
that  when  a  party  repeats  the  same  accusations  over 
and over without providing any factual evidence, that 
party’s credibility is severely undermined.
As  we  have  said  in  many  forums,  as  a  first  step 
in combating the phenomenon of terrorism, we should 
pay close attention to its sources. It is well known that 
terrorism has always been rooted in the type of religious 
radicalization advocated by Saudi Arabia to promote its 
own political interests. It is ironic that, from one day to 
the next, radicalization rooted in religious ideology can 
be  suppressed  and  substituted  with  a  disingenuously 
civilized  call  made  on  the  world  stage.  We  see 
activists,  religious  moderates  and  those  calling  for 
reform — particularly women — being put into Saudi 
62/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
jails  without  fair  trials,  in  violation  of  international 
law,  as  the  whole  world  watches.  Saudi  Arabia’s  goal 
is to politicize terrorism, and it will make accusations 
of terrorism against all who disagree with its policies, 
including against sovereign States. The State of Qatar 
is not the only victim; other countries have also borne 
the brunt of Saudi Arabia’s crude methods.
The  State  of  Qatar  has  shown  wisdom  and 
restraint in responding to a fabricated crisis. We have 
used everything at our disposal to try to alleviate the 
suffering  caused  by  an  unjust  embargo.  There  were, 
however,  humanitarian  consequences  resulting  from 
coercive  and  illegal  measures  that  affected  property 
rights  and  access  to  justice  that  cannot  be  redressed 
without reparations to Qatari citizens and non-citizens 
whose rights were violated, to families whose members 
were  separated  and  to  students  who  were  unable  to 
complete their studies.
I  would  also  like  to  mention  the  worst  measures: 
Qatari  citizens  and  non-citizens  residing  in  the  State 
of  Qatar  were  barred  under  fake  pretexts  for  the 
second consecutive year from fulfilling their Hajj and 
Umrah  religious  duties.  This  prohibition  was  widely 
condemned because it is a grave human rights violation 
and an unprecedented politicization of religious issues.
Despite the unilateral measures that denied Qataris 
many of their rights, amply documented in international 
reports,  the  Government  of  the  State  of  Qatar  has 
abstained from taking retaliatory measures against the 
brotherly Saudi people. Moreover, we will continue our 
constructive partnerships with the United Nations and 
countries across the world in order to achieve tangible 
results  that  strengthen  security  and  sustained  peace, 
alleviate  human  suffering,  promote  human  rights  and 
enhance  the  quality  of  relationships  among  countries 
and peoples.
Mr.  Djani  (Indonesia):  My  delegation  takes  the 
floor to exercise Indonesia’s right of reply in order to 
respond  to  the  statement  made  by  the  representative 
of Vanuatu (see A/73/PV.12). Indonesia condemns the 
slander  and  baseless  comments  that  the  delegation 
of  Vanuatu  made  in  its  statement  this  morning  when 
referring  to  the  Indonesian  provinces  of  Papua  and 
West Papua. Not only do these accusations undermine 
the sanctity of friendly relations among nations and the 
principle of non-interference, but they also violate the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
For many years, Vanuatu has tried to spread several 
fraudulent ideas — that there are flagrant, systematic 
and widespread human rights violations in Indonesia; 
that Indonesia neglects civil, political, social, economic 
and cultural rights; and that the people in the provinces 
of  Papua  and  West  Papua  are  racially  different  and 
therefore  do  not  belong  in  Indonesia.  Vanuatu  argues 
that, based on these factors, which have been injected 
into  their  minds  by  criminal  individuals,  the  two 
provinces should be the subject of debate at the United 
Nations.
We fail to understand the motive behind Vanuatu’s 
intentions  in  supporting  a  group  of  people  who  have 
wrought  terror  and  mayhem  on  so  many  occasions, 
causing  fatalities  and  sorrow  for  innocent  families  in 
their own communities. Indonesia categorically rejects 
any  efforts  to  disturb  the  peace,  stability  and  growth 
enjoyed  by  the  people  of  Papua  and  West  Papua,  and 
would like to state the following points.
First,  accusing  Indonesia  of  committing  gross 
violations of human rights and inhuman acts is serious 
and unacceptable. No country in the world is free from 
human rights or development challenges, but accusing 
others  of  human  rights  violations  when  one  has  so 
many problems of one’s own is the pot calling the kettle 
black. Vanuatu, which portrays itself as a champion of 
human rights, is party to only a few of the international 
human  rights  instruments,  while  Indonesia,  on  the 
other hand, is party to eight out of the nine instruments. 
Interestingly, Vanuatu has not ratified the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination,  whereas  Indonesia  did  so  a  long 
time ago.
Indonesia  is  a  diverse  and  multicultural  nation 
comprising  hundreds  of  ethnic  groups,  thousands  of 
tribes  and  hundreds  of  local  languages.  We  define 
ourselves  neither  on  the  basis  of  racial  purity  nor  as 
a  single  ethnic  group.  We  reject  racial  discrimination 
in  Indonesia.  If  we  were  to  follow  the  irresponsible 
premise  and  logic  of  Vanuatu,  then  the  world  would 
consist  of  tens  of  thousands  of  countries,  given  the 
multitude  of  races  and  ethnicities  in  the  world.  I 
would therefore like to take this opportunity to remind 
Vanuatu that the customary international law deriving 
from  the  Montevideo  Convention  on  the  Rights  and 
Duties of States of 1933 clearly stipulates four elements 
that  define  a  country,  namely,  population,  territory, 
government and capacity to enter relations with other 
States.  I  emphatically  state  that  neither  ethnicity  nor 
18-30110
63/65
A/73/PV.13 
28/09/2018
race  has  been  stated  as  an  underlying  reason  for  the 
right to be a country.
Secondly,  let  me  provide  Vanuatu  with  a  short 
lesson  on  our  history.  Almost  50  years  ago,  through 
resolution  2504  (XXIV),  adopted  in  this  very  same 
forum and in this very same Hall, all of us at the United 
Nations decided on the final status of Papua as a rightful 
and legitimate part of Indonesia. The resolution, which 
recognized the successful implementation of the act of 
free choice, was adopted with no single country voting 
against it. The people of Papua reaffirmed their place 
and unity with Indonesia. In other words, what Vanuatu 
is putting forward is nothing more than an outrageous 
challenge  to  a  decision  of  the  United  Nations  —  a 
decision of the then 128 States Members of the United 
Nations almost half a century ago.
Indonesia, like every other responsible member of 
the  United  Nations,  vigorously  upholds  the  principles 
of  the  Charter.  For  that  reason,  Vanuatu’s  support  for 
individuals whose separatist agendas seek to challenge 
Indonesia are an undeniable violation of the principles 
of  the  Charter  and  must  therefore  be  denounced. 
Furthermore, it is a shame that, since last year, Vanuatu 
has appointed those very individuals to serve as official 
members of its delegation. Such actions are tantamount 
to acts of hostility and have no place — none at all — in 
the United Nations system.
A  country 
that  supports  separatists  and 
the 
dismemberment  of  another  country  should  not 
participate  at  a  gathering  of  a  decent,  law-abiding 
family of nations. Enough is enough. We could not care 
less what Vanuatu’s motives are, but what we know for 
sure is that Indonesia will firmly and strongly defend 
its sovereignty, its territorial integrity and its dignity. 
Let that be known.
Ms. Danish (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): The 
delegation of my country, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
entirely rejects and condemns the statement delivered 
by the representative of Qatar.
In  the  two  decades  since  the  mid-1990s,  Qatar 
has  incited  peoples  and  supported  extremists.  As  the 
headquarters  for  the  Muslim  Brotherhood,  Qatar  has 
been instrumental in the creation of other such groups 
as  the  Takfir  wal-Hijra  group,  Al-Qaida  and  Jabhat 
Al-Nusrah.  It  has  also  allowed  religious  extremist 
leaders to appear in their television broadcasts to justify 
suicide  attacks.  Qatar  has  a  history  of  harbouring 
terrorist groups; indeed, one Al-Qaida leader succeeded 
in entering the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia using a Qatari 
passport, while other Al-Qaida members were arrested 
by  Saudi  authorities  when  they  tried  to  enter  our 
territory using Qatari passports. Qatar is well aware of 
these actions, as is the United States.
Qatar has also supported separatists in my country, 
as  well  as  in  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  Bahrain  and 
Kuwait,  in  attempts  to  fabricate  crises  to  undermine 
those countries’ Governments in order to destabilize the 
region. The one that should be accused of harbouring 
and supporting terrorism is not the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia, but Qatar, for it is Qatar that is financing and 
supporting terrorism.
Qatar’s  accusations  against  the  Government  of 
my  country  with  respect  to  barring  Qatari  pilgrims 
are  false.  The  Ministry  of  Hajj  welcomes  our  Qatari 
pilgrim brethren who wish to perform Hajj and Umrah 
after  they  have  completed  the  required  procedures 
upon arrival at King Abdul Aziz International Airport 
in Jeddah. Just like pilgrims from all other countries, 
Qataris  must  provide  personal  data,  register  with  the 
Hajj Ministry’s website and sign contracts with Saudi 
companies authorized to provide services to pilgrims. 
There  are  various  packages  available  from  which 
pilgrims can choose according to what suits them. The 
only  restriction  is  that  they  must  arrive  by  air  at  the 
King Abdul Aziz International Airport in Jeddah using 
any airline other than Qatar Airways.
Mr.  Al-Khalifa  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
5 June 2017, Saudi Arabia attempted an act of aggression 
against the sovereignty of the State of Qatar through an 
unjust embargo and other illegal measures proscribed 
under  international  law  and  international  norms.  The 
State of Qatar has also been subject to a misleading and 
cheap campaign of abuse by the Saudi press and social 
media consisting of clearly fabricated false accusations. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  strange  and  regrettable  that  this 
slander  has  found  its  way  into  the  general  debate 
of  the  General  Assembly,  where  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  are  supposed  to  discuss  how  to  improve 
relations and promote international cooperation among 
States with a view to addressing common challenges.
I would like to reiterate that the State of Qatar is 
boldly advancing in all areas of development so as to 
serve our people, bring them prosperity and contribute 
to  attaining  peace  and  security  in  the  Middle  East 
region and throughout the world. We continue to wage 
the fight against terrorism, while working to strengthen 
64/65 
18-30110
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.13
human  rights.  We  strive  to  promote  stability,  peace 
and security in our region and to maintain our crucial 
regional arrangements, despite the efforts of others to 
impose blockade policies against us.
As  this  is  my  second  statement  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply, in accordance with the rules of procedure 
of the General Assembly, I will not be able to take the 
floor again to respond to the foregoing or any further 
allegations. My country therefore reserves the right to 
respond to these allegations in writing. 
The meeting rose at 10.30 p.m.
18-30110
65/65
