United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
21st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 17 October 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 130
International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal Tribunals
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/289)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  call  on 
Judge  Theodor  Meron,  President  of  the  International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
Judge  Meron  (International  Residual  Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals): It is my profound privilege to 
appear before the General Assembly once again, and for 
the final time, as President of the International Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  Before  turning 
to  the  substance  of  my  remarks,  I  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  warmly  congratulate  you,  Madam 
President,  on  Ecuador’s  assumption  of  the  presidency 
of the Assembly and to wish you every success during 
your term.
I would also like to express my thanks for the vital 
support  and  cooperation  provided  to  the  Mechanism 
by  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs,  and  especially  by 
Mr. Miguel de Serpa Soares, Under-Secretary-General 
for  Legal  Affairs  and  United  Nations  Legal  Counsel, 
and Mr. Stephen Mathias, Assistant Secretary-General 
for Legal Affairs.
Justice,  accountability  and  the  rule  of  law  are 
principles that stand out among our noblest and highest 
ideals.  Commitment  to  those  principles  forms  the 
bedrock of our Organization. But as familiar as those 
ideals  may  be,  I  would  nonetheless  ask  all  of  us  to 
pause  for  a  moment  and  reflect  on  why  they  matter. 
Justice matters because it is by pursuing accountability 
through  independent,  impartial  and  rigorously  fair 
adjudication that we cement respect for the rule of law, 
and, by doing so, shape the bricks that pave the way for 
us along pathways to peace.
Justice  matters  because  it  is  through  judicial 
proceedings that we defend, and demand adherence to, 
the values embodied in our laws — laws that, in many 
ways,  reflect  our  better  selves,  laws  that  denounce 
cruelty and malice and, at the international level, laws 
that  reflect  the  fundamental  expectation  that,  even  in 
the chaos of armed conflicts, we shall be guided by and 
strive to protect, basic humanity.
Justice  matters  because,  at  its  core,  it  represents 
a  profound  acknowledgment  of  human  dignity,  the 
importance  of  every  life,  the  pain  of  victims  and  the 
responsibility we have for one another. In everyday life 
we may not reflect a great deal upon the value of justice, 
accountability or the rule of law, but it is when we stand 
aggrieved, watch loved ones taken away on trains and 
trucks  never  to  return,  bear  witness  to  brutality  and 
barbarism,  or  bear  that  ourselves,  that  we  are  most 
keenly aware of the value of justice. And it is when we 
endeavour to rebuild our lives and our communities in 
the wake of devastating violence and strive together to 
bring about lasting peace that we are most aware of the 
crucial  foundation  that  justice,  accountability  and  the 
rule of law provide.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-32506 (E)
*1832506*

A/73/PV.21 
17/10/2018
Over  the  course  of  nearly  three-quarters  of  a 
century, the United Nations has borne witness, time and 
again, to horrific atrocities and utter inhumanity. In the 
face  of  some  of  the  worst  crimes,  conflict  and  chaos 
imaginable, the United Nations is at its undeniable best 
when it acts swiftly and decisively to prevent suffering 
and  takes  concrete  steps  to  ensure  that  our  common 
and vital commitment to justice, accountability and the 
rule of law will be upheld. The International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  and  the  International 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  were 
born  of  just  such  compelling  demands  for  justice  and 
accountability.  From  the  time  they  were  established, 
those Tribunals were true pioneers, blazing a trail for all 
of the other efforts to ensure individual accountability 
for violations of international law that would follow in 
the intervening years.
In  case  after  case,  the  Tribunals  clarified  the 
contours  of  international  humanitarian  and  human 
rights  law,  reinforced  respect  for  the  rule  of  law 
and  made  it  plain  that  no  one  stands  above  it.  They 
demonstrated  the  singular  importance  of  fairness  and 
due  process.  And  they  brought  into  sharp  focus  the 
horrific atrocities committed during the 1994 genocide 
against the Tutsi in Rwanda and across the region of the 
former  Yugoslavia  during  the  terrible  conflicts  there. 
In  short,  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals  is  a  remarkable 
one.  And  it  is  one  that  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, as their successor 
and the institution established to carry out and complete 
their residual, essential responsibilities, proudly carries 
forward today.
As set forth in its annual report submitted in August 
(see  A/73/289),  the  Mechanism  made  good  progress 
over  the  course  of  the  past  year.  From  providing 
protection  and  support  for  vulnerable  victims  and 
witnesses to supervising the enforcement of sentences 
of those convicted, and from preserving and managing 
the Tribunals’ incomparable archives to responding to 
requests for assistance from national jurisdictions, the 
Mechanism  continued  to  carry  out  the  core  functions 
entrusted to it. As detailed in the report, the Prosecutor 
for  the  Mechanism,  Mr.  Serge  Brammertz,  and  his 
Office also continued their efforts to locate and arrest 
the remaining fugitives indicted by the ICTR and the 
Mechanism.  The  cooperation  of  Member  States  with 
those efforts remains vital to ensuring that the fugitives 
are brought to justice. State cooperation is also vital for 
so many other aspects of the Mechanism’s work, such 
as the enforcement of the sentences of those convicted, 
the  relocation  of  those  who  have  been  acquitted  and 
released and the ability of the Mechanism to function 
smoothly on the territories of its host States.
And of course, the Mechanism has continued to be 
engaged in a wide range of judicial activities, with the 
Judges of the Mechanism issuing one appeal judgment 
and  scores  of  other  decisions  and  orders  during  the 
reporting  period,  as  well  as  amending  the  Rules  of 
Procedure and Evidence. In addition, significantly, the 
Judges adopted a revision to the Code of Professional 
Conduct  for  the  Judges  of  the  Mechanism,  which 
introduced  a  disciplinary  procedure.  That  is  further 
evidence  of 
commitment 
to 
accountability and best practices in all that it does. 
the  Mechanism’s 
As set forth in the report, the Mechanism reached 
another important milestone when, following the closure 
of the ICTY, in December 2017, the Mechanism began 
to  operate,  for  the  first  time  since  its  establishment, 
as a stand-alone institution, without the support of its 
predecessors. While it weathered unexpected budgetary 
challenges  during  that  same  time  frame,  thanks  to 
the  leadership  of  the  Registrar  of  the  Mechanism, 
Mr. Olufemi Elias, the exceptional professionalism and 
dedication  of  the  Mechanism’s  staff  and  the  support 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Mechanism,  as  an 
institution, emerged with a demonstration of resilience. 
Indeed, in many ways, we have redoubled our efforts to 
improve operations, working methods and procedures 
so  as  to  maximize  efficiency  and  effectiveness  while 
also seeking to serve as a model of careful stewardship 
of the limited resources entrusted to us.
Although  the  reporting  period  ended  on  30  June, 
before concluding my remarks I would like briefly to 
touch upon three developments that have since occurred.
First, it grieves me to report the sad passing away, 
earlier  this  month,  of  Judge  Mparany  Mamy  Richard 
Rajohnson  of  Madagascar,  a  colleague  who  was 
appreciated  and  respected  by  his  fellow  Judges  and 
staff alike, both at the Mechanism and, before that, at 
the ICTR. He will be greatly missed. With his passing, 
and in the light of two other vacancies on the judicial 
roster created by the departure of Judge Bakone Justice 
Moloto of South Africa and the non-renewal of the term 
of  Judge  Aydin  Sefa  Akay  of  Turkey,  the  Mechanism 
now has only 22 Judges on its roster. I wish to take this 
opportunity to express my appreciation to all those who 
are taking steps to help fill those vacancies.
2/9 
18-32506
17/10/2018 
A/73/PV.21
Secondly,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  Arusha 
Branch  of  the  Mechanism  began  its  first  judicial 
activity  in  September,  with  the  initial  appearance 
of  five  individuals  indicted  on  charges  of  contempt 
of  court.  That  first  hearing  went  very  smoothly  and 
demonstrates  the  Mechanism’s  readiness  to  respond 
at  short  notice  once  the  remaining  fugitives  who  are 
expected  to  be  tried  by  the  Mechanism  are  located 
and arrested.
Finally,  as  some  may  already  be  aware,  changes 
were  made  in  recent  weeks  to  the  composition  of 
the  Appeals  Chamber  benches  that  are  hearing  the 
appeals  in  the  cases  of  Ratko  Mladić  and  Radovan 
Karadžić following motions for the disqualification of 
certain  Judges,  including  myself.  In  the  Mladić  case, 
and  in  accordance  with  the  Rules  of  Procedure  and 
Evidence, the responsibility to decide the motions for 
disqualification was assumed by the most senior Judge 
able  to  act,  who  granted  the  motions  to  disqualify 
Judge Carmel Agius, Judge Liu Daqun and myself. In 
the Karadžić case, following the filing of a motion for 
my disqualification, I withdrew from the case prior to 
the senior Judge issuing a ruling. While I have every 
confidence that my fellow Judges now on the benches 
of  those  two  cases  will  take  all  possible  measures  to 
ensure  that  the  changes  in  bench  composition  do  not 
extend  the  time  for  those  proceedings  any  more  than 
necessary, I regret that I will no longer be in a position 
to  see  the  Karadžić  case  to  its  conclusion  by  the  end 
of  the  year,  as  had  been  the  aim.  Nonetheless,  as  set 
forth in my decision to withdraw from the bench in that 
case, I considered it to be in the interest of justice that I 
withdraw from the case in order to not allow the then-
pending  disqualification  proceedings  to  impede  the 
progress of the appeals in the case.
I  end  my  remarks  as  I  began  them  today,  with  a 
focus  on  justice.  Underlying  the  establishment  of  the 
ICTY  in  the  early  1990s  was  a  principle  brilliantly 
articulated by the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm 
Friedrich  Hegel:  Let  justice  be  done,  lest  the  world 
should  perish.  That  same  principle  must  continue  to 
guide  us  today  —  not  just  at  the  Mechanism,  but  at 
the  United  Nations  more  generally.  It  has  been  my 
profound  privilege  to  do  my  part  to  serve  that  noble 
end as a Judge for nearly two decades and as President 
of the Mechanism since the institution’s inception. For 
that  extraordinary  opportunity  to  serve,  and  for  the 
opportunity to bid the Assembly farewell today, I am 
most grateful.
The President: I would like to thank Judge Theodor 
Meron  for  his  long-standing  dedication,  contribution 
and  commitment  to  international  law,  justice  and 
human rights. I thank him for his service.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
Mr.  Chaboureau  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align 
themselves  with 
this statement.
We  thank  President  Theodor  Meron  for  the  sixth 
annual  report  (see  A/73/289)  of  the  International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals, submitted 
pursuant to article 32 (1) of its statute and covering the 
period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
Concerning  the  activities  of  the  Mechanism,  we 
would like first of all to express our gratitude to Judge 
Meron for all that he has accomplished as President of 
the Mechanism. Judge Meron contributed significantly 
to enhancing and developing international criminal law 
and justice during his time at the Residual Mechanism 
and,  before  that,  at  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). We also congratulate Judge 
Carmel  Agius  on  his  appointment  as  President  of  the 
Mechanism as of 19 January 2019.
We  underline  the  importance  of  respecting  the 
judicial  independence  of  the  Mechanism  and  its 
Judges. We take note of the amendments to the Rules 
of Procedure and Evidence of the Mechanism and the 
revision  of  the  Code  of  Professional  Conduct  for  the 
Judges, as well as of the issuance of practice directions 
by the President.
On the activities of the President and the Chambers, 
the EU and its member States commend all the entities 
of the Mechanism on the work carried out during the 
period covered by the report. We note with satisfaction 
the  assessment  made  by  Office  of  Internal  Oversight 
Services on Chambers management.
We  note  that  eight  fugitives  indicted  by  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR) 
remain at large. We welcome the efforts of the Office 
of  the  Prosecutor  to  locate  and  arrest  three  fugitives 
18-32506
3/9
A/73/PV.21 
17/10/2018
whose  cases  would  be  tried  by  the  Mechanism,  as 
well as to seek information on the whereabouts of five 
fugitives  who  were  expected  to  be  brought  to  trial  in 
Rwanda after their arrest. In that regard, we appreciate 
the work carried out by the participants in the European 
and  African  Task  Forces  established  by  the  Office  of 
the Prosecutor in order to locate fugitives.
As mentioned in the report, national prosecutions 
are  now  essential  to  achieving  greater  justice  for  the 
victims  of  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
crimes of genocide committed in the former Yugoslavia 
and Rwanda. The role of the Office of the Prosecutor 
to  assist  and  support  effective  national  prosecution 
of  those  crimes  is  therefore  crucial,  as  demonstrated 
by  the  404  requests  for  assistance  received  by  the 
Office  during 
the  reporting  period.  Concerning 
capacity-building for the benefit of national judiciaries 
prosecuting war crimes, we welcome the organization 
of training courses under the auspices of the Office in 
Senegal, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.
We  note  with  concern  that  budgetary  constraints 
have  exposed  the  Mechanism  to  difficulties  in  terms 
of  staffing,  while  we  also  welcome  the  adoption  of 
its  biennial  budget  for  2018-2019.  We  commend  the 
Mechanism  for  having  carried  out  its  responsibilities 
after  the  closure  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
former Yugoslavia as of 1 January 2018, as well as for 
achieving gender parity goals within its staff. We are 
grateful to the Republic of Tanzania for its support for 
the  completion  of  the  project  concerning  the  Arusha 
premises.  We  commend  the  Registrar  on  the  support 
provided  for  judicial  activities  and  other  mandated 
activities,  notably  concerning  the  completion  of  the 
transfer of the records of the ICTY and the updating of 
public interfaces to access and search judicial records 
of the ICTY, the ICTR and the Mechanism.
With  regard  to  the  enforcement  of  sentences, 
we  would  like  to  thank  the  Member  States  that  have 
accepted the transfer of persons to serve their sentences 
on their territory. We are also grateful to the African 
States  that  have  accepted  on  their  territories  persons 
either  acquitted  or  released  after  the  completion  of 
their sentences. We encourage other Member States to 
conclude agreements with the Mechanism in that area 
in order to reduce the number of acquitted and released 
persons in Arusha.
whose  mission  is  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law, 
the  fight  against  impunity  and  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. We call on all States 
to  cooperate  with  the  Mechanism,  in  full  compliance 
with  their  obligations  under  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions.
Finally,  we  regret,  and  remain  concerned  about, 
the circumstances that led to the non-reappointment of 
former Judge Akay at the Mechanism.
Mr. Arbeiter (Canada) (spoke in French): I have the 
honour to speak today on behalf of Canada, Australia 
and New Zealand (CANZ).
We would like to take this opportunity to express 
our  continued  support  for  the  important  work  of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals.  The  ongoing  work  of  the  Mechanism 
ensures that the legacies of the ad hoc tribunals — the 
International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) 
and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR)  —  endure.  The 
international  community 
should be extremely proud of the accomplishments of 
those  two  pioneering  Tribunals  and  their  important 
contributions  to  international  criminal  justice.  Now 
that their mandates have ended, the Mechanism carries 
on their essential work by continuing the fight against 
impunity for the most serious international crimes.
criminal 
Our countries remain strong and active supporters 
of 
justice  mechanisms 
international 
and  believe  that  the  Mechanism,  as  well  as  other 
international courts, are the cornerstones of the rules-
based international order. We would like to emphasize 
that international support for those mechanisms cannot 
be  extended  just  at  the  early  stages,  when  a  situation 
commands international attention. It is easy to overlook 
the  work  of  those  bodies  once  the  horrendous  crimes 
they were established to address fade from the headlines. 
However,  the  fact  remains  that,  when  it  comes  to  the 
administration of justice, the later stages of cases can 
often  be  as  important  as  their  initial  stages  to  ensure 
that justice is delivered. Therefore, we believe that it is 
important for the international community to continue 
to provide support to the Residual Mechanism and other 
mechanisms to encourage lasting and positive impacts 
on affected communities, victims and witnesses.
(spoke in English)
The  EU  and  its  member  States  will  continue  to 
be strong supporters of international criminal justice, 
We  express  our  appreciation  for  the  smooth 
handover  by  the  ICТY  to  the  Mechanism  and  the 
4/9 
18-32506
17/10/2018 
A/73/PV.21
ICTY’s  clear  commitment  to  realizing  its  completion 
strategy. For the first time since its establishment, the 
Mechanism is carrying out the full range of functions 
entrusted  to  it  without  the  support  of  its  now  closed 
predecessor Tribunals. We commend the Mechanism on 
achieving that important milestone in its mandate and 
urge it to draw upon the best practices of and lessons 
learned from the Tribunals. In that regard, we hope that 
the Mechanism will carefully consider the recent report 
of  Justice  Jallow,  following  the  independent  expert 
review into the death of Slobodan Praljak.
took 
(Guyana),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Ten-Pow 
the Chair.
As it was intended, the Mechanism operates with a 
small staff and limited resources. CANZ appreciates the 
efforts the Mechanism has made to deliver its mandate 
without compromise and acknowledges the operational 
challenges  it  has  faced  in  that  regard.  In  particular, 
CANZ  would  like  to  highlight  the  achievements  of 
the  Mechanism  this  year  with  respect  to  sentence 
enforcement.  Eight  prisoners  were  transferred  from 
the United Nations detention facility in Arusha to the 
custody of authorities in Member States. We understand 
that negotiations for the transfer of the four remaining 
prisoners are at an advanced stage and expected to be 
completed  by  the  end  of  2018.  CANZ  commends  the 
Mechanism for its efforts in that area. Those transfers 
are  a  significant  step  towards  the  completion  of  the 
Mechanism’s  mandate.  However,  we  express  our 
continued concern about the plight of acquitted persons 
who  wish  to  be  relocated  from  Arusha.  We  urge  the 
Mechanism  to  continue  dialogue  with  Member  States 
in search of a practical solution to the difficult situation 
of those individuals.
CANZ  notes  that  eight  fugitives  indicted  by  the 
ICTR remain at large. Three of the eight fugitives are 
to  be  tried  by  the  Mechanism  and  the  remaining  five 
will  be  tried  by  Rwanda.  We  urge  Member  States  to 
provide  greater  cooperation  to  secure  their  arrest  and 
surrender.  That  much-needed  cooperation  with  the 
Mechanism,  as  with  all  other  international  criminal 
courts  and  tribunals,  is  crucial  to  the  path  to  justice. 
We remain hopeful that those individuals will one day 
soon be held to account for their alleged crimes.
CANZ appreciates the work done by the Mechanism 
in support of national jurisdictions and acknowledges 
that staff and resources are required to respond to those 
requests for assistance. The success of the Mechanism 
is  dependent  upon  the  support  and  cooperation  of 
Member  States.  We  commend  such  cooperation, 
and  in  particular  the  recent  execution  by  Rwanda 
of  five  arrest  warrants  issued  by  the  Mechanism  for 
individuals  accused  of  interfering  with  witnesses  and 
the administration of justice.
New  Zealand,  Australia  and  Canada  renew  their 
pledge of support to the Mechanism. We will continue 
to  offer  our  full  commitment  to  it,  in  order  to  give 
practical  effect  to  our  steadfast  and  unwavering 
commitment to international criminal justice.
Mr. Meza-Cuadra (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): As a 
country committed to multilateralism and international 
law,  Peru  welcomes  the  sixth  annual  report  of  the 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal 
Tribunals  (see  A/73/289),  presented  to  the  General 
Assembly today by its President, Judge Theodor Meron, 
and covering the work of the Mechanism for the period 
1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
We  believe  that,  while  the  functions  of  the 
Residual Mechanism, established by Security Council 
resolution 1966 (2010), will continue to diminish over 
time, the Mechanism will continue to contribute to the 
development  of  international  criminal  law,  as  did  the 
special tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, 
while ensuring accountability and preventing impunity.
We  welcome  the  way  in  which  the  Residual 
Mechanism  fulfils  its  mandates  and  carries  out  the 
functions assigned to it, which is especially important 
after  the  closure,  last  December,  of  the  International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. We highlight the 
steps taken to implement the recommendations of the 
report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services and 
take note of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure 
and  Evidence,  which  call  for  a  balance  between  the 
various  approaches  used  in  the  Romano-German  and 
Anglo-Saxon legal systems. In addition, we would like to 
commend several African and European Governments 
for  their  willingness  to  allow  convicted  persons  to 
serve sentences in their respective countries. We also 
underscore the need to bring fugitives to justice. In that 
regard, the success of the Residual Mechanism depends 
to  a  large  extent  on  State  cooperation  in  enforcing 
sentences, adhering to rulings and meeting the requests 
of the Residual Mechanism for assistance.
like 
I  would 
the 
commitment  of  Peru,  current  Chair  of  the  Security 
Council’s  Informal  Working  Group  on  International 
to  conclude  by  reiterating 
18-32506
5/9
A/73/PV.21 
17/10/2018
Tribunals,  to  the  promotion  of  justice,  the  rule  of 
law  and  accountability,  as  well  as  to  the  work  of  the 
International Residual Mechanism.
Mr.  Arrocha  Olabuenaga  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Mexico  thanks  President  Judge  Theodor 
Meron  for  the  sixth  report  on  the  work  of  the 
International  Residual  Mechanism 
for  Criminal 
Tribunals  over  the  past  year  (see  A/73/289),  which 
reflects the Mechanism’s challenges and achievements.
My  delegation  echoes  the  words  of  appreciation 
expressed  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
for Judge Meron’s work in the service of international 
justice. We also echo the Judge Meron’s own words that 
justice matters.
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  difficulties  that 
the  Residual  Mechanism  has  faced,  in  particular 
considering  that,  since  January  and  for  the  first  time 
since its establishment, the Mechanism is shouldering 
its  responsibilities  without  the  administrative  and 
financial support of the International Tribunal for the 
Former  Yugoslavia,  following  its  closure.  In  order  to 
meet  those  challenges,  we  believe  it  timely  that  the 
Mechanism is implementing a cost-cutting plan.
Mexico  acknowledges  that  the  Mechanism  has 
managed  to  establish  itself  as  a  small,  temporary 
and  efficient  structure  with  the  capacity  to  handle 
various  workloads  and  strike  a  balance  between  its 
immediate  needs  and  longer-term  priorities,  as  the 
Office  of  Internal  Oversight  Services  concluded  in 
March in its review of the Residual Mechanism. That 
efficiency  is  reflected  in  the  wide  range  of  activities 
undertaken by the President, the Chambers, the Office 
of the Prosecutor and the Registry. We encourage the 
Mechanism to continue its positive trend of reducing its 
personnel and expenses, in accordance with its residual 
and temporal mandate.
Finally, we reiterate that the work of the Mechanism, 
whose  establishment  we  supported  in  2010,  is  crucial 
to  ensuring  the  effective  culmination  of  the  judicial 
processes  initiated  by  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  such  as  appeals,  the  protection 
of  witnesses  and  victims  and  the  enforcement  of 
judgments, as well as to preserving and propagating the 
valuable legacy of ad hoc tribunals in the development 
of international criminal law.
Ms. Paláu-Hernández (United States of America): 
With  the  closure  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  in  December  2017,  the 
United States thanks those who served at the ICTY for 
their  hard  work  in  providing  justice  to  the  victims  of 
atrocities and for their efforts in promoting international 
criminal  accountability.  Justice  and  accountability  at 
the  international  and  national  levels  remain  critically 
important, particularly in the face of ongoing conflicts 
where grave crimes have been committed.
The  United  States  commends  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  for 
smoothly assuming the functions of the ICTY and the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR). 
During the reporting period, the Mechanism functioned 
without the support of either Tribunal for the first time, 
and did so successfully and efficiently.
The United States recognizes President Meron for 
his continued leadership of the Mechanism. President 
Meron  has  faithfully  served  the  Mechanism  and, 
through his work, has helped ensure justice for victims 
of atrocities and due process for defendants.
During 
the  reporting  period, 
the  Mechanism 
adopted  amendments  and  policies 
increase 
efficiency and clarity with regard to the procedures of 
the  Mechanism.  We  are  hopeful  that  the  expenditure 
reduction  plan  implemented  by  the  Mechanism  will 
further increase its efficiency.
to 
We recognize the efforts of Prosecutor Brammertz, 
particularly  in  collecting  new  intelligence  and  leads 
on the eight fugitives indicted by the ICTR. Tracking 
activities  have  helped  develop  a  clearer  picture  of 
the  strategies  used  by  the  fugitives,  and  the  United 
States  remains  hopeful  that  will  aid  in  the  efforts  to 
locate them.
in 
to  national 
jurisdictions 
The United States also commends the Prosecutor’s 
assistance 
their  own 
prosecution of atrocity crimes. In response to requests 
from  Member  States,  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor 
handed over more than 310,000 pages of documentation, 
which  will  constitute  meaningful  assistance  for  the 
national  prosecution  of  atrocity  crimes.  The  efforts 
to  increase  the  capacity  within  national  judiciaries, 
especially  in  East  Africa  and  the  former  Yugoslavia, 
promote 
the 
international  community  is  committed  to  providing. 
Such efforts encourage sovereign national Governments 
justice  and  accountability 
the 
that 
6/9 
18-32506
17/10/2018 
A/73/PV.21
to  take  action  and  ensure  the  legitimate  and  effective 
prosecution of international crimes and other atrocities.
The  Mechanism  should  continue  to  be  supportive 
of  appropriate  prosecution  by  sovereign  national 
Governments.  Attention  to  the  Mechanism’s  mandate 
as  a  temporary  institution  is  of  particular  importance 
in understanding the need to support national systems 
for justice. The transfer of nine persons to enforcement 
States to serve their sentences shows the Mechanism’s 
commitment to its mandate.
October  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
first rewards, of up to $5 million, that the United States 
authorized  for  information  leading  to  the  arrest  of 
individuals  responsible  for  war  crimes,  genocide  and 
crimes against humanity. In the past 20 years, we have 
paid  dozens  of  rewards  totalling  millions  of  dollars 
to  bring  those  responsible  for  crimes  in  the  former 
Yugoslavia  and  Rwanda  to  justice.  But  our  pursuit  of 
justice  is  not  over.  Eight  Rwandans  remain  at  large, 
and  the  United  States  is  more  committed  than  ever 
to  ensuring  that  they  are  brought  to  justice.  We  will 
continue to offer large rewards for information leading 
to the arrest of those men. We urge all States to remain 
relentless in their efforts to find, arrest and surrender 
those fugitives.
To  the  victims  of  those  individuals  —  they  are 
not  forgotten.  To  those  fugitives  and  those  who 
harbour  them  —  we  will  not  cease  our  search.  To 
Governments  —  we  emphasize  that  the  adjudicated 
facts  established  through  the  proceedings  of  those 
Tribunals  represent  an  actual  historical  record  of 
crimes  committed  during  the  conflicts,  including 
genocide. They offer an opportunity for us to reach a 
shared  understanding  of  what  happened  and  prevent 
recurrence.  None  of  us  gains  when  individuals  or 
Governments seek to falsely revise facts, deny history, 
politicize  tragedy  or  portray  convicted  war  criminals 
as heroes. We must work together to reverse that trend, 
in  a  spirit  of  truth  and  reconciliation,  and  ensure  the 
crimes of perpetrators continue to be publicly rejected.
The  United  States  would  like  to  emphasize  its 
gratitude to those who worked with the ICTR, the ICTY 
and  the  Mechanism,  along  with  those  who  continue 
to  work  with  the  Mechanism.  Those  efforts  show 
that  justice  can  be  achieved  when  the  international 
community  comes  together.  May  those  who  lost  their 
lives  in  Rwanda  and  the  former  Yugoslavia  continue 
to  be  remembered,  and  may  the  efforts  to  attain 
justice  for  them  remain  strong.  It  is  with  great  pride 
that we state our continued support of the Mechanism 
and  our  continued  commitment  to  accountability  for 
perpetrators and justice for victims of atrocities.
Ms. Pejic (Serbia): I am grateful for the opportunity 
to address the General Assembly today on behalf of the 
Republic of Serbia.
Serbia 
fulfils  all 
its  obligations 
regarding 
cooperation with the International Residual Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals.  Only  one  first-instance  case 
and  two  appeals  cases  remain  before  the  Mechanism. 
Our  relevant  institutions  continue  to  facilitate  the 
Mechanism’s Office of the Prosecutor’s free access to 
all evidence, documents, archives and witnesses. That 
cooperation  is  unencumbered  and  all  requests  have 
been addressed. Witnesses have been allowed to testify 
freely, relinquishing their right to not testify on account 
of State, military and/or official secrets. All conditions 
under which the defendants were temporarily released 
were  met  without  exception.  The  defendants’  conduct 
was in accordance with the decisions delivered by the 
Mechanism’s Judges.
Serbia’s initiative related to the enforcement of the 
sentences of convicted parties in the countries of origin 
would  help  achieve  the  purpose  of  punishment  and 
resocialization, which the enforcement of the sentences 
in  far-off  countries  does  not  do.  The  convicts  do  not 
understand the language of those countries and cannot 
meet with their families or relatives. More often than 
not, they are kept in inadequate conditions and provided 
inadequate  health  care.  Serbia  is  ready  to  provide 
guarantees  that  all  the  necessary  security  measures 
will be taken if sentences are enforced in the country of 
origin, and accepts international monitoring.
At  the  national  level,  Serbia  continues  to  be 
committed to processing war crimes irrespective of the 
nationality  of  the  perpetrators  of  the  grievous  crimes 
against humanity.
At  the  regional  level,  my  country  believes  that 
regional  cooperation  is  the  only  way  to  achieve 
reconciliation and stable relations among neighbouring 
States.  That  is  why  Serbia  is  actively  engaged  in 
deepening  and  enhancing  that  cooperation.  We  have 
signed  bilateral  agreements 
legal 
framework  for  cooperation  between  our  countries  in 
relation to cases of war crimes.
that  provide  a 
18-32506
7/9
A/73/PV.21 
17/10/2018
that  we 
regret 
I  want 
to  emphasize 
the 
circumstances that resulted in former Judge Aydin Sefa 
Akay  not  being  reappointed  to  the  Mechanism.  We 
believe  that  during  his  time  at  the  Mechanism  Judge 
Akay  demonstrated  exceptional  professionalism  and 
objectivity in performing his duties.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  underline  that  Serbia 
remains fully committed to meeting its obligations in 
cooperation with the Mechanism.
Mr.  Kuzmin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in 
Russian): My statement will not be as sunny as that of 
some of the delegations that preceded me, and I would 
therefore like to ask members to listen carefully.
We  thank  the  leadership  of  the  International 
Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  for 
the  presentation  of  the  report  (see  A/73/289)  on  its 
activity.  We  continue  to  closely  follow  its  activity 
and work, including its judicial proceedings. The past 
year saw the completion of the second two-year cycle 
of  the  Mechanism’s  existence,  a  review  of  its  work 
by  the  Security  Council,  as  provided  for  in  Council 
resolution  1966  (2010),  and  the  two-year  extension  of 
the Mechanism’s operation as a result of that review.
At  the  time  of  the  review,  we  had  hoped  that  the 
Residual Mechanism would be able to take into account 
the mistakes made by its predecessor, the International 
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), in the work 
of administering international criminal justice, and be 
able  to  justify  that  model’s  right  to  exist.  However,  it 
appears that we were wildly optimistic. The Mechanism 
is  clearly  copying  the  ICTY’s  flawed  practices.  It  is 
using  familiar  tricks,  such  as  transforming  what  is 
really  an  acquittal  into  a  conviction  by  limiting  the 
related sentence to time served in pretrial detention, as 
in the Vojislav Šešelj case. Going on the March report of 
the Office of Internal Oversight Services (S/2018/206), 
the Mechanism also seems to be following the ICTY’s 
dubious  practices  with  regard  to  staffing  policy  and 
judicial  administration.  In  the  past  few  months  the 
Mechanism’s  judges  have  been  reshuffled,  including 
through  the  recusal  of  the  President  himself,  who 
according to the Statute should preside over the Appeals 
Chamber.  In  that  context,  we  cannot  understand  how 
judges who were migrated over to the Mechanism from 
the  ICTY  could  have  been  appointed  to  the  Radovan 
Karadžić  and  Ratko  Mladić  appeal  cases  in  the  first 
place, especially since the roster includes other experts 
who are not tainted with the deplorable so-called legacy 
of the ICTY. Doubts have naturally and inevitably arisen 
about  the  impartiality  of  the  proceedings  under  way, 
and as we understand it, the Mechanism is currently in 
total chaos.
We  have  studied  the  publicly  available  recent 
rulings of the Mechanism on the Mladić and Karadžić
cases.  Behind  the  dry  bureaucratic  language,  one 
thing  is  clear  —  the  Mechanism’s  leadership  is  to  a 
large degree focused on some internal intrigues rather 
than  the  administration  of  justice.  We  have  already 
frequently  warned  of  the  danger  of  that,  including  in 
the  Security  Council  when  there  was  a  proposal  to 
reappoint the-then ICTY leadership to analogous posts 
in the Mechanism.
Against that depressing backdrop, one can imagine 
how the Mechanism is dealing with other issues, such 
as  providing  defendants  with  timely  and  appropriate 
medical care. That is very important, and in that regard 
we are particularly concerned about the health of Ratko 
Mladić, for whom we have repeatedly demanded quality 
medical examination and treatment. We reiterate that if 
that is an impossible task for the Mechanism’s prison 
doctors,  the  time  has  come  to  release  Mr.  Mladić 
temporarily  so  that  he  can  get  treatment  in  Russia 
or Serbia.
We have studied the sections of the report on the 
Residual  Mechanism’s  capacity-building  assistance 
to  national  judicial  organs  that  prosecute  war  crimes. 
As  was  the  case  last  year,  the  work  is  being  carried 
out  in  countries,  among  others,  that  have  absolutely 
no  connection  to  the  situations  under  the  Residual 
Mechanism’s  consideration.  Such  so-called  capacity-
building 
contravenes  Security  Council 
resolution 1966 (2010), according to which the Residual 
Mechanism  is  a  temporary  structure  with  a  strictly 
limited mandate.
activity 
We  therefore  call  on  the  Mechanism  to  halt  its 
inappropriate  expenditure  of  the  funds  and  human 
resources allocated to it. We trust that it will not become 
distracted by tasks not included in its Statute but will 
rather focus on concluding the functions entrusted to it 
as quickly as possible.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
May I take it that it is the wish of the Assembly to 
take note of the sixth annual report of the International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals?
8/9 
18-32506
17/10/2018 
A/73/PV.21
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
the speaker in the exercise of the right of reply, I would 
like to remind delegations that statements in the exercise 
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the 
first intervention and five minutes for the second, and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
I now give the floor to the representative of Turkey.
Ms.  Buner  (Turkey):  Turkey  would  first  like  to 
thank  President  Meron  for  his  briefing  on  the  report 
(see A/73/289) of the International Residual Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals  and  for  his  leadership  during 
his  term  of  office.  We  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to reaffirm our support for the work of the 
Mechanism, as defined in Security Council resolution 
1966  (2010)  and  subsequent  resolutions,  with  a  view 
to ensuring that a number of essential functions of the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  are 
carried out.
Regarding  the  unfortunate  remarks  made  by  the 
observer of the European Union and the representative 
of  Serbia  about  a  Turkish  national,  I  would  like  to 
set  the  record  straight  for  the  General  Assembly. 
Mr.  Aydin  Sefa  Akay  is  a  Turkish  national  who  was 
elected to the Mechanism’s roster of judges in 2011. In 
2016 judicial proceedings were initiated in Turkey and 
serious criminal charges brought against Mr. Akay for 
conduct that was outside the scope of his functions as 
a judge of the Mechanism. Against that backdrop, the 
Secretariat decided not to reappoint him to the roster in 
June. As President Meron emphasized in his statement, 
justice matters and nobody is above the law, including 
the judges of the Mechanism in matters unrelated to the 
exercise of their official mandate.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 130.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
18-32506
9/9
