United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
12th plenary meeting
Friday, 28 September 2018, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.12
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mrs.  Gueguen 
(France), Vice-President, took the Chair.
as  a  multilateral  instrument  through  which  peaceful 
international order is safeguarded.
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Address by Mr. Ilir Meta, President of the Republic 
of Albania
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Albania.
Mr. Ilir Meta, President of the Republic of Albania, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ilir  Meta, 
President of the Republic of Albania, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Meta:  Let  me  first  join  all  the  other 
speakers  in  congratulating  and  wishing  success  to 
President  Espinosa  Garcés.  Albania  wishes  to  assure 
her of our full support in her tasks and mission.
through  global 
The  theme  of  this  general  debate,  “Making  the 
United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people”,  takes  us  to 
the heart of multilateralism, the kind that our nations 
have  built 
leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities  for  the  benefit  of  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies.  While  we  share  the  belief 
in  the  need  for  the  constant  pursuit  of  reform,  we 
remain  faithful  to  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Organization.  We  continue  to  see  the  United  Nations 
The  United  Nations  was  created  in  a  concert  of 
sovereign  wills  that  produced  a  corpus  of  rules  and 
good  practices  to  guide  our  efforts  to  find  global 
solutions  to  global  problems.  The  United  Nations  has 
no life of its own outside the will of its Members, nor 
is  it  immune  to  evolving  changes  and  developments. 
The United Nations has grown as the world has become 
more  global.  The  issues  of  democracy,  human  rights, 
security,  development,  technological  advances  and 
the  worldwide  web,  the  environment  and  many  more 
increasingly feature on the United Nations agenda, just 
as they dominate our domestic policies.
Albania  takes  seriously  its  responsibility  to  be 
active in this debate and thereby add relevance to our 
part of the world. It is in that spirit that we fully support 
the vision of Secretary-General Guterres for reform and 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 
at  the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  We 
strongly believe that the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development  is  universal,  because  it  is  relevant  and 
applicable to all the countries of the world. Albania has 
taken  a  clear  stance  through  a  unanimous  resolution 
adopted  by  the  Albanian  Parliament  that  expresses 
our  firm  commitment  to  implementing  and  achieving 
those Goals.
Albania presented its national voluntary report in 
July, incorporating a combination of its European agenda 
objectives  with  those  of  sustainable  development.  I 
would like to emphasize that those strategic documents 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30104 (E)
*1830104*

A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
are  fully  compatible  and  in  line  with  our  national 
strategic  project  for  European  integration.  Albania’s 
national  strategy  for  development  and  integration 
enshrines the same strategic vision and objectives for 
development  —  good  governance,  the  rule  of  law,  a 
competitive and sustainable economy and the promotion 
of,  and  respect  for,  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. As we look forward to a future decision to 
open accession negotiations with the European Union 
(EU), we remain committed to progress, with domestic 
reforms in key areas.
We  also  consider  the  EU  prerogative  of  open 
regional  cooperation  to  be  an  indispensable  policy. 
With  ongoing  processes  aimed  at  maintaining  peace 
and  integration  in  the  Balkans,  we  believe  that  every 
bilateral achievement among our countries contributes 
directly 
to  greater  peace,  security,  stability  and 
economic  development.  We  consider  that  the  recently 
reached  agreement  between  Greece  and  Macedonia 
has the opportunity to become a historic achievement. 
We  have  called  on  all  political  actors  in  Macedonia, 
including local Albanian leaders, to be actively engaged 
in  ensuring  the  success  of  the  referendum  to  be  held 
on  30  September  and  to  support  a  vote  in  favour  of 
the agreement.
NATO’s  open-door  policy  towards  the  Western 
Balkans remains vital and will be decisive in anchoring 
the region to the NATO security umbrella and ensuring 
responsible local ownership. In that context, I strongly 
welcome the recent messages that our strategic partners 
sent  to  Macedonian  citizens.  Those  messages  echo 
their determination to uphold the immense investment 
over the past two decades in establishing stability and 
security in the Balkans. The combined commitment of 
both NATO and the EU is the best guarantor for all the 
countries and citizens in our region.
That positive momentum can also nurture further 
progress  in  the  EU-led  dialogue  between  Kosovo  and 
Serbia.  The  dialogue  has  entered  its  final  stage  and 
is  expected  to  be  concluded  with  a  legally  binding 
agreement  on  the  comprehensive  normalization  of 
relations  between  the  two  States.  It  is  of  paramount 
importance that the expected agreement should embody 
positive energy while fostering the European values of 
inter-ethnic  coexistence  and  harmony.  It  is  extremely 
important  that  the  agreement  mark  a  breaking  away 
from history and the past and improve the daily lives of 
the peoples in both States.
Let  us  bear  in  mind  that  for  the  Balkans,  the 
past  is  notoriously  linked  to  border  changes,  ethnic 
cleansing and violent massive displacements. However, 
over  the  past  two  decades,  the  region  has  undergone 
a  tremendous  transformation,  thanks  to  the  support 
and involvement of the United Nations and the serious 
political, social and economic investments of the United 
States of America and the EU. We call on and welcome 
every effort on the part of the States Members of the 
United Nations to promote the international recognition 
of  Kosovo  and  further  support  its  membership  in 
regional and international organizations. Based on the 
stability and positive developments in Kosovo, Albania 
supports  a  reduction  in  the  number  of  meetings  held 
by  the  Security  Council  on  the  reports  on  the  United 
Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo.
Albania  fully  supports  a  more  effective  United 
Nations  agenda  through  a  more  integrated  peace  and 
security  architecture,  with  peacekeeping  operations 
as  vital  instruments  and  a  flagship  activity  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  support  the  recent  Action  for 
Peacekeeping  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General,  and 
we  have  endorsed  the  declaration  on  that  initiative. 
Albania  fully  supports  Security  Council  resolution 
2242  (2015)  and  the  substantively  similar  resolutions 
that  were  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council  on  the  review  of  the  peacebuilding 
architecture  (resolutions  70/262  and  2282  (2016)).  We 
remain  confident 
that  Secretary-General  Guterres 
will  keep  up  the  momentum  for  a  revitalized  role  for 
the United Nations, with a special focus on peace and 
security in the world. His platform for the revitalization 
of the United Nations is promising, and we support it. 
Allow me to note that more than 6,500 members of the 
Albanian armed forces and civilians have participated 
in  international  peacekeeping  operations  since  1996. 
They  have  contributed  to  operations  in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Chad,  South  Sudan,  Afghanistan  and 
other  countries.  We  have  pledged  to  continue  our 
modest but steady contribution.
Albania  has  been  aligned  with  all  of  the  United 
Nations initiatives aimed at fighting terrorism and has 
ratified 12 of the 19 related United Nations conventions 
and protocols. Albania joined the immediate response 
as part of the global struggle against violent extremism 
and,  notably,  the  Global  Coalition  against  Daesh.  As 
a NATO member, we tripled our troop contribution to 
Afghanistan last year. Our contribution is a significant 
part of the collective efforts to fight illegal migration 
2/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
in  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  We  are  part  of  the  NATO 
maritime  mission  in  the  Aegean  Sea  and  assist  the 
European Border and Coast Guard Agency in stopping 
migrant smuggling. Albania believes that the protection 
of civilians, women and children is of crucial importance 
in  peacekeeping  operations,  because  the  life  of  every 
person is precious.
We  welcome  the  growing  attention  to  the  role 
of  regional  organizations  in  security  issues.  In  that 
connection,  we  greatly  appreciate  and  welcome  the 
close  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and 
the  European  Union  on  the  platform  of  the  Common 
Security and Defence Policy. If we are to have a safer 
and more peaceful planet, concrete steps must be taken. 
In  that  regard,  Albania  hails  the  progress  that  has 
been  made  under  the  leadership  of  the  United  States 
of  America  on  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula and considers it a very positive step forward, 
not only for that region but the entire planet.
Another  issue  of  serious  concern  threatening 
peace  and  security  is  the  ongoing  conflict  in  Syria. 
We  support  all  the  actions  taken  by  the  international 
actors to end the conflict and stop the use of chemical 
weapons. The humanitarian situation has worsened, and 
that tragedy has produced millions of displaced persons 
and war refugees, which also threatens the security of 
neighbouring countries and the European continent.
The situation in Libya also continues to seriously 
concern us, and we affirm our strong commitment to the 
unity and territorial integrity of Libya and emphasize 
the need to de-escalate the violence there and combat 
the spread of terrorism. We have supported the efforts 
of the international community to develop an inclusive 
political  dialogue  among  all  parties  on  the  future  of 
Libya as the only way to stop the conflict and resolve 
the  Libyan  crisis,  which  is  a  seriously  threatening 
situation, and not only to its immediate neighbours.
The  conflict  between  Israel  and  Palestine  is  still 
undermining peace and stability in the Middle East. A 
two-State  solution  will  realistically  enable  both  sides 
to  fulfil  their  aspirations,  put  an  end  to  the  conflict 
and  achieve  a  just  and  lasting  peace  for  Israelis  and 
Palestinians. We have always welcomed and supported 
the  efforts  of  all  sides  and  those  of  the  international 
community to find a solution through negotiation.
A few days ago, on behalf of Albania, I expressed, 
our full support for the principles and implementation 
of the declaration on the Global Call to Action on the 
World  Drug  Problem,  initiated  by  the  United  States. 
We  all  need  to  take  bold  action  and  work  together  to 
eliminate drugs from the lives of our young people and 
children and save our societies and our national security 
and public health. For that reason, we must strengthen 
international  cooperation  and  build  a  common  basis 
of  understanding  of  the  problem,  including  taking 
effective measures against it. In that context, I would 
also  like  to  underline  that  Albania  enjoys  excellent 
cooperation with the United Nations Office on Drugs 
and Crime.
As  a  country  with  valuable  contributions  to  the 
enforcement  of  peace,  stability  and  progress,  our 
respect  for  and  strong  desire  to  protect  universal 
human  rights  and  our  strong  faith  in  multilateralism, 
Albania seeks to serve as a non-permanent member of 
the Security Council for the period from 2022 to 2023. 
To that end, we stand ready to engage constructively in 
conflict prevention and various peace operations, both 
in  the  United  Nations  and  in  other  regional  security 
implement  sustainable 
organizations, 
development  policies  and  contribute 
to  universal 
respect  for  human  rights.  Albania  is  committed  to 
protecting and promoting all human rights and supports 
the integration of the human rights dimension into the 
agenda of United Nations.
in  order 
to 
Finally, I would like to address the issue of climate 
change, which affects every country and continent. It is 
disrupting national economies and affecting lives, at a 
high cost to peoples, communities and countries. The 
historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change of 2015, 
which  is  based  on  the  Kyoto  Protocol  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
provides  a  legally  binding  international  commitment 
to engaging with concrete action. Albania has adopted 
corresponding strategies and action plans and is taking 
the  necessary  measures  to  protect  the  environment 
and  reduce  gas  emissions.  It  is  quite  clear  that  the 
consequences  of  climate  change  are  moving  faster 
than we are. We must prevent climate change in order 
to  ensure  the  existence  of  the  planet  and  save  future 
generations.  Collective  efforts  are  needed  to  address 
collective challenges.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Albania  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
18-30104
3/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
Mr. Ilir Meta, President of the Republic of Albania, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Carl Greenidge, Vice-President 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Co-operative Republic of Guyana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Vice-President 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Co-operative 
Republic of Guyana.
Mr.  Carl  Greenidge,  Vice-President  and  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Co-operative Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carl 
Greenidge,  Vice-President  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  Co-operative  Republic  of  Guyana,  and 
inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Greenidge  (Guyana):  I  am  pleased  to  extend 
our  warmest  congratulations  to  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  and  the  people  of  Ecuador  on  the 
occasion  of  her  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. That election is 
all  the  more  gratifying  because  Ms.  Espinosa  Garcés 
represents  the  Latin  America  and  Caribbean  region. 
She  joins  a  small  but  distinguished  group  of  women 
who have presided over the Assembly in the 72 years of 
its history. Guyana pledges its unwavering support as 
she discharges her responsibilities.
Let me also take the opportunity to pay tribute to 
the  previous  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Miroslav 
Lajčák, for his successful stewardship of the Assembly’s 
seventy-second session.
I  would  also  like  to  take  a  moment  to  salute  the 
memory  of  the  late  former  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan, a son of Africa and a servant of the peoples of 
the  world  whose  dedication  to  the  global  community 
was epitomized by a lifetime of selfless service to the 
United Nations.
Guyana is guided by the value of multilateralism, 
sometimes  termed  liberal  multilateralism,  which  has 
oriented  its  policies  since  independence.  That  rules-
based  system,  with  a  pivotal  role  for  nation  States 
alongside key international and multilateral institutions, 
is valued by Member States, particularly small States. 
It is largely predictable, as it is based on the rule of law, 
and it has enabled extensive economic development and 
improvements in human welfare across the globe since 
its establishment after the 1939-1945 war.
In  spite  of  that  success,  multilateralism  is  now 
under attack in some quarters of the world, and recently 
there have even been calls for it to be replaced. Some 
of the challenges fuelling such calls are obvious. The 
rapid expansion in the number of States over the past 
few decades has contributed to the exponential growth 
in the number and complexity of decision-making units 
in the system. The consequences of the latter have been 
most evident in some of the very areas in which global 
multilateral governance has had the greatest success in 
the  past  —  trade,  economic  growth  and  the  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts.
At the United Nations, we are faced with stymied 
efforts at Security Council reform. The debates about 
the  reforms  needed  to  move  us  forward  and  out  of 
this  cul-de-sac  have  yielded  many  ideas.  But  rather 
than  turning  to  outdated  models,  solutions  based  on 
misconceived economic goals, or some form of national 
exceptionalism,  we  need  to  explore  complementary 
organizational forms and arrangements that could help 
simplify decision-making.
In  their  attempts  to  look  outside  the  box  for 
solutions,  some  observers  have  turned  to  the  idea  of 
including  new  partners,  such  as  non-governmental 
organizations  and  social  networks  working  alongside 
States and Governments, as well as to some degree of 
regionalization of organizational structures — the so-
called Web 2.0 option. It may also be worth exploring 
other voting rules for decision-making. In other words, 
we need to fashion a more equitable and just variant of 
multilateralism rather than its replacement.
Serious  proposals  should  seek  to  preserve  the 
valued elements of multilateralism, because as we face 
more intractable problems, the capacities of individual 
States do not give us the ability to solve those problems. 
It is no wonder that the Secretary-General, in his report 
on the work of the Organization (A/73/1), asserts that 
the  United  Nations  offers  a  platform  where  Member 
States,  regional  organizations  and  civil  society  can 
find  solutions  to  global  problems  that  no  nation  can 
resolve  by  acting  alone.  Working  together  is  not  an 
option. It is the only answer. Guyana therefore pledges 
its  full  support  for  the  strategic  vision  proposed  by 
4/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
the  President,  “Dialogue  and  the  strengthening  of 
multilateralism  as  a  catalyst  for  the  well-being  of  all 
persons and a sustainable planet”.
Global  governance  and  peace  are  inextricably 
linked.  In 
that  regard,  Guyana  has  noted  with 
satisfaction  the  efforts  of  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres,  in  close  collaboration  with  Member  States, 
to reform and streamline the machinery of the United 
Nations so as to make it more fit for purpose. We fully 
support the reform of the peace and security pillar, with 
its emphasis on preventive diplomacy.
Peace  is  also  inextricably  linked  to  sustainable 
development.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Nations 
disarmament agenda is a central element in our efforts 
to  achieve  a  stable,  secure  and  peaceful  world  order. 
Guyana  has  demonstrated  its  commitment  to  that 
agenda,  most  recently  in  its  signing  and  ratification 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
We recognize, however, that the commitment of every 
Member  State  to  the  disarmament  agenda  is  key  to 
achieving the world to which we aspire. The onus is on 
all of us to fulfil the obligations that we have taken on 
ourselves by becoming State parties to the various legal 
instruments concerned with questions of disarmament 
and non-proliferation.
For Guyana and the wider Caribbean, the illicit trade 
in  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and  their  associated 
ammunition  poses  one  of  the  most  serious  threats  to 
human  security  and  sustainable  development  in  our 
region.  International  drug  trafficking,  transnational 
organized crime, unregulated cyberspace and the illicit 
trade in small arms and light weapons divert resources 
that could otherwise be invested in other critical areas. 
We believe that with effective international cooperation 
and assistance, small countries like Guyana can tackle 
that illicit trade and ultimately create safer communities, 
countries and regions and a safer world.
Adherence to the cardinal principles of the sovereign 
equality  of  States,  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of States and the peaceful resolution 
of disputes are the most effective guarantees of peace. 
Members are no doubt aware of the controversy that has 
arisen between Guyana and its neighbour the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela over Venezuela’s contention that 
the  1899  arbitral  award,  which  settled  the  boundaries 
between the two countries, is null and void.
On  30  January  2018,  Secretary-General  Guterres 
took  the  decision  that  the  controversy  with  the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela should be referred to 
the International Court of Justice. The decision of the 
Secretary-General is binding on the parties. Accordingly, 
in  March  of  this  year,  Guyana  filed  its  application  in 
the Court, seeking an affirmation of the validity of the 
1899  arbitral  award  and  the  international  boundary 
that  it  established.  Unfortunately,  notwithstanding  its 
obligation  to  do  so,  Venezuela  has  so  far  refused  to 
participate in the proceedings. Guyana sincerely hopes 
that Venezuela will change its mind. There is still time 
for it to do so. Guyana wishes to express its gratitude 
to the Secretary-General for his important contribution 
to the resolution of this long-standing matter and looks 
forward to a final judgment by the International Court 
of Justice.
As a responsible member of the global community, 
Guyana seeks peace not only in our region but throughout 
the  world  where  the  scourges  of  war  and  conflict  are 
an obstacle to development. They divert attention away 
from  the  pressing  problems  of  development  and  the 
enhancement of human well-being.
 With regard to the Middle East, the region of the 
world that has given birth to thethree great monotheistic 
religions  of  our  age,  we  reiterate  our  call  for  a  two-
State  solution  to  the  generational  conflict  between 
the peoples of Palestine and Israel. Those two peoples 
have much to gain by living side by side in peace. Like 
people everywhere, the people of Palestine, including 
the inhabitants of Gaza, have a right to life, a dignified 
existence and their own homeland.
Similarly, we deplore the suffering being endured 
by the Rohingya population. We call on the international 
community to take the necessary steps to ensure respect 
for the human rights of the affected population. At the 
same time, we commend the efforts of Bangladesh to 
provide  a  safe  haven  for  the  refugee  population,  with 
the assistance of international agencies.
Closer to home, in the Caribbean region, we again 
join  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  international 
community in calling for the removal of the trade and 
economic  embargo  on  our  sister  Caribbean  nation  of 
Cuba.  That  embargo  hinders  the  right  of  the  Cuban 
people  to  development  and  the  enhancement  of  their 
material well-being.
Guyana also welcomes the measures being taken to 
reposition  the  United  Nations  development  system  in 
order to better align its operations with the goals set out 
in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We 
18-30104
5/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
accept that that repositioning is a shared responsibility, 
and Guyana is committed to playing its part. Guyana 
has  fully  embraced  the  holistic  and  people-centred 
approach to development enshrined in the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  Our  nation  is  currently  engaged 
in efforts to mainstream and integrate those Goals into 
our national development strategy, known as the Green 
State  Development  Strategy,  which  seeks  to  ensure 
that development is not achieved at the expense of the 
environment,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  Guyana 
will soon become a significant oil producer, regionally 
and internationally. We will wean Guyana away from 
its  current  near-total  dependence  on  non-renewable 
sources of energy. We are turning to renewable sources 
such as hydroelectricity, wind, solar and biomass.
Guyana is unalterably committed to the principles 
of  sustainable  development  and  to  working  with  the 
international  community  and  all  partners  to  help 
combat the effects of climate change, including rising 
sea  levels,  to  which  we  are  particularly  vulnerable  as 
a  low-lying  coastal  State.  For  that  reason,  Guyana’s 
strategy  is  to  emphasize  inclusive  transformation, 
sustainable  natural 
transition, 
resilient infrastructure, human development and well-
being,  Government  and  institutional  foundations  and 
international cooperation, trade and investment.
resources,  energy 
than  half  of 
Guyana  fully  recognizes  the  necessary  —  nay, 
critical  —  contribution  of  women  and  girls  to  its 
sustainable  development.  Women  and  girls  constitute 
more 
the  world’s  population.  The 
underutilization of their potential represents a serious 
loss  of  resources  in  the  global  effort  to  promote 
human development. We are trying to ensure that the 
management  of  that  development  is  undertaken  with 
women  and  girls  fully  represented  at  the  helm  of  the 
decision-making in Guyana. We therefore applaud the 
steps taken by the Secretary-General to ensure parity in 
the appointment of United Nations senior management, 
including Resident Coordinators in the field.
I  want  to  express  Guyana’s  satisfaction  at  the 
successful conclusion this year of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on a global compact for safe, orderly and 
regular migration. Its provisions are consistent with the 
2030  Agenda  and  the  commitments  made  in  the  New 
York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants. It is our 
hope  that  this  global  framework  will  help  to  manage 
international  migration  flows  in  all  their  dimensions 
for  the  benefit  of  all  States,  both  of  origin  and 
destination, and for the benefit of migrants themselves. 
Guyana looks forward to the successful adoption of the 
compact at the Intergovernmental Conference to Adopt 
the  Global  Compact  for  Safe,  Orderly  and  Regular 
Migration, to be held in December in Marrakech.
We  meet  this  year  in  disconcerting  times.  Our 
planet,  the  only  one  we  have,  faces  grave  threats  on 
multiple fronts, including to the very existence of life 
as we know it. As I have already hinted, there are many 
who  question  whether  our  Organization,  the  nations 
of the world united, will be able to unite our strength 
in  order  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security 
while  promoting  social  progress  and  better  standards 
of  living  in  larger  freedom  and  reaffirming  faith  in 
fundamental human rights, the dignity and worth of the 
human person and the equal rights of men and women. 
It is for us to decide and to summon the will to work 
for those ends. Our children and our children’s children 
will  judge  us.  Guyana  reaffirms  its  strong  resolution 
to  doing  its  part  within  the  limits  of  its  capacity 
and resources.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Co-operative Republic of Guyana for the statement he 
has just made.
Mr.  Carl  Greenidge,  Vice-President  and  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Cooperative Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Taban  Deng  Gai,  First 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  First 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan.
Mr.  Taban  Deng  Gai,  First  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Taban Deng 
Gai,  First  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Gai  (South  Sudan):  It  is  my  great  honour  to 
deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Salva  Kiir  Mayardit,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan,  who  unfortunately  could  not  be  here 
today  owing  to  his  engagement  in  consolidating  and 
6/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
streamlining the implementation of the peace process. 
I would also like to congratulate the President on her 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-third  session  and  on  being  the  fourth  woman 
to  hold  that  position.  The  Republic  of  South  Sudan 
affirms its commitment to playing its role in supporting 
the implementation of the agenda she has proposed for 
this historic session.
On  behalf  of  the  people  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  and  my  Government,  I  would  like  to  reiterate 
our heartfelt condolences to the entire United Nations 
family and to the family of the late former Secretary-
General His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, who recently 
passed away. He played a crucial role in supporting the 
people of the Republic of South Sudan by ensuring that 
we  peace, which was instrumental in the formation of 
the Republic of South Sudan.
In  addition,  I  was  happy  to  attend  the  centenary 
commemoration  of  the  late  Madiba  (see  A/73/PV.4  et 
seq.). It is fitting that the United Nations has dedicated 
24  September  to  the  annual  holding  of  the  Nelson 
Mandela Peace Summit. He was an icon of peace whose 
legacy will live forever.
The  theme  selected  by  the  President  for  this 
session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”, resonates 
very well with the vision of the Republic of South Sudan 
for peace and prosperity. At this juncture, I would like 
to share with members some of the successes that we 
have achieved on our long walk to peace and prosperity.
I stood before the General Assembly last year (see 
A/72/PV.19)  as  the  First  Vice-President  of  a  country 
in  the  middle  of  violent  conflict.  I  stand  before  the 
Assembly  today  in  testament  to  what  Members  of 
this Organization have helped achieve in the Republic 
of  South  Sudan,  especially  the  relevant  specialized 
United Nations bodies operating in our country, along 
with the Intergovernmental Authority on Development 
(IGAD), the African Union (AU), the European Union, 
the  Troika,  China,  the  IGAD  Partners  Forum  and  the 
international  partners  and  friends  of  South  Sudan.  I 
am pleased to inform the Assembly that we now have a 
more united Republic of South Sudan, heading towards 
peaceful  stability.  With  the  continued  support  and 
goodwill of our regional and international partners, we 
are on schedule to hold free and fair general elections 
after a transitional period of 36 months.
The path leading towards that agreement began at 
the thirty-first Extraordinary Summit of IGAD Heads 
of State and Government, held on 12 June 2017 in Addis 
Ababa on the situation in the Republic of South Sudan. 
The Heads of State and Government agreed on the need 
for the establishment of a high-level revitalization forum 
for all of the parties to the Agreement on the Resolution 
of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan.  That 
process includes new stakeholders and various groups, 
including  civil  society,  women’s  groups,  religious 
leaders, young people and eminent persons as observers. 
The  purpose  of  the  High-level  Revitalization  Forum, 
as stated at the Extraordinary Summit, was threefold: 
first,  to  institute  a  permanent  ceasefire;  secondly,  to 
give fresh impetus to the inclusive implementation of 
the provisions of the peace agreement; and thirdly, to 
agree  on  a  realistic  new  timeline  and  implementation 
schedule for the holding of democratic elections at the 
end of the transitional period.
the 
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan 
unreservedly  embraced 
IGAD-led  High-level 
Revitalization Forum. Its objectives were crystal clear, 
and the delegation of the Government of the Republic of 
South Sudan attended the meetings of the Forum fully 
prepared  to  take  advantage  of  every  opportunity  to 
achieve  comprehensive  and  lasting  peace.  The  thirty-
second Extraordinary Summit of IGAD Heads of State 
and Government on the situation in the Republic of South 
Sudan  entrusted  His  Excellency  Field  Marshal  Omer 
Hassan Ahmed Al-Bashir, President of the Republic of 
the Sudan, to facilitate a second round of face-to-face 
discussions  with  His  Excellency  General  Salva  Kiir 
Mayardit, Mr. Riek Machar and other political leaders 
to  resolve  the  outstanding  issues  pertaining  to  the 
governance and security arrangements emerging from 
the Revitalization Forum.
The  signing  of  the  Khartoum  Declaration  of 
Agreement  between  the  Parties  to  the  Conflict  in  the 
Republic of South Sudan took place on 27 June. General 
Salva Kiir Mayardit and Mr. Riek Machar, together with 
other political leaders, approved under that agreement: 
first, the declaration of a permanent ceasefire throughout 
South  Sudan,  based  on  the  Cessation  of  Hostilities 
Agreement  signed  on  21  December  2017;  secondly, 
the  adoption  of  security  arrangements  to  build  one 
national army, a police force and other security organs 
of  an  inclusive  character;  and  thirdly,  the  conclusion 
of  an  agreement  on  the  revised  bridging  proposal 
before the closure of the Khartoum round of talks. On 
18-30104
7/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
12  September,  all  of  the  parties  —  the  Transitional 
Government of National Unity, the Sudanese People’s 
Liberation  Movement/Sudanese  People’s  Liberation 
Army  in  Opposition,  the  South  Sudan  Opposition 
Alliance, former detainees, other political parties and 
other  stakeholders  with  regard  to  the  original  peace 
Agreement — signed the final Revitalized Agreement 
on  the  Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan  in  Addis  Ababa.  The  signing  was 
graciously attended and witnessed by the IGAD Heads 
of State and Government, the international community, 
the  African  Union,  the  European  Union,  the  United 
Nations, the Troika, China, the IGAD Partners Forum 
and international partners and friends of the Republic 
of South Sudan.
In  addition  to  the  recently  signed  Revitalized 
Peace  Agreement,  since  December  2015  we  have 
been  working  on  a  national  dialogue  and  grass-roots 
people-to-people peace initiatives. It is our belief that 
such a complementary three-track approach is the only 
way to consolidate the efforts for peace on the ground, 
as  well  as  to  ensure  the  restoration  of  accountability 
and  the  upholding  of  human  rights  in  my  country.  In 
South  Sudan’s  unique  environment,  a  multilayered 
approach such as the one adopted by my Government is 
the best way forward.
the  full 
implementation  of 
It  is  therefore  against  that  background  that  the 
Transitional  Government  of  National  Unity  has 
embraced 
the  peace 
Agreement as the only instrument crucial to achieving  
that mission and vision. The Government of the Republic 
of  South  Sudan  is  ready  to  welcome  forces  from  the 
guarantors  of  the  Revitalized  Agreement  to  monitor 
its implementation and encourages IGAD and the AU 
to discuss with the Security Council how the Regional 
Protection  Force  can  help  to  monitor  and  ensure  that 
peace holds in the Republic of South Sudan. With regard 
to security-sector reforms, which are a major pillar of 
the Revitalized Agreement, my Government reiterates 
its  commitment  and  resolve  to  implement  transitional 
security  arrangements  encompassing  a  range  of 
security-sector  reforms,  including  the  cantonment  of 
forces.  Moreover,  the  Government  is  committed  to 
transforming the Sudan Peoples’ Liberation Army, and 
its structures are already in place to achieve the aim of 
creating a professional national army.
be  entrusted  with  the  functions  of  overseeing  and 
coordinating the implementation of the peace agreement 
activities during the pretransitional period.
lasting  peace 
The  achievement  of 
requires 
establishing mechanisms to tackle impunity and ensure 
accountability.  In  the  recently  decided  Terrain  Hotel 
case, the Government interviewed victims in order to be 
able to hold the responsible individuals accountable. A 
detailed investigation formula and evidence-gathering 
process,  carried  out  with  the  support  of  the  United 
States  Government  through  the  Federal  Bureau  of 
Investigation,  enabled  the  victims  to  identify  their 
attackers  and  enabled 
those 
responsible  to  the  full  extent  of  the  law.  Since  the 
eruption  of  the  conflict  in  December  2013,  the  court 
martial  has  tried  204  cases,  including  the  Terrain 
Hotel  case.  The  Terrain  Hotel  trials  demonstrated 
the  commitment  of  the  Sudanese  People’s  Liberation 
Movement/Sudanese  People’s  Liberation  Army 
in 
Opposition to holding its members to account for their 
crimes, including abuse of civilians.
the  prosecution  of 
The President took the Chair.
It  goes  without  saying  that  war  has  blighted  the 
economy of the Republic of South Sudan. We have seen 
tremendous losses of life, property and human dignity. 
No report affects my heart as much as the sight of our 
young and infirm dying needlessly and suffering from 
deprivation.  Indeed,  I  have  been  asked  specifically 
why  my  Government  believes  that  this  time  peace  is 
permanent. There is an African proverb that advises a 
person to look at the place where he slipped, because 
there he will find what made him fall.
It  is  through  a  change  of  leaders’  attitudes  from 
entrenched  positions  that  we  have  moved  towards 
a  conciliatory  and  accommodating  Government  of 
National Unity. My President, Mr. Kiir Mayardit, has 
compromised  on  many  positions  and  worked  with 
more stakeholders for the sake of peace. The IGAD-led 
peace initiatives have demonstrated the way in which 
African  solutions  to  African  problems  can  lead  to  an 
agreement. I want to express my heartfelt appreciation 
to IGAD, the Republic of the Sudan in particular, and 
the  broader  international  community  for  the  critical 
roles they played, without which the Revitalized Peace 
Agreement would not have happened.
I  am  very  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  of  the 
formation of the National Pre-Transitional Committee, 
which  is  made  up  of  all  of  the  stakeholders  who  will 
In that regard, given the positive role being played 
by  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  in  the  peace  process  in 
South  Sudan  and  the  region,  we  appeal  for  a  speedy 
8/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
normalization  of  the  relationship  between  the  Sudan 
and  the  United  States  of  America.  Moreover,  we  call 
for the total lifting of the sanctions against the Sudan.
We  urge  the  Government  of  the  Sudan  to  find  a 
speedy resolution to the contentious issues in the Blue 
Nile, Southern Kordofan and Darfur regions, based on 
our strong belief that stability in those areas is critical 
for  total  and  lasting  peace  in  South  Sudan  and  the 
Sudan, as well as the region as a whole.
On  Abyei,  as  we  await  the  settlement  of  its  final 
status,  the  Government  of  South  Sudan  reiterates  its 
support  for  the  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  letter  to  the  Security  Council  dated 
20  August  (S/2018/776).  We  also  commend  the  good 
work of the United Nations Interim Security Force for 
Abyei (UNISFA) and remain grateful to Ethiopia, the 
sole UNISFA troop contributor.
We also urge Member States to continue supporting 
efforts at the level of the African Union to find a political 
solution to the problem of Abyei. We call especially for 
the implementation of the 21 September 2012 proposal 
of  the  AU  High-Level  Implementation  Panel  for  the 
Sudan  and  former  President  Mbeki,  which  has  been 
endorsed more than six times to date by the AU Peace 
and Security Council. It is high time that we brought an 
end to the suffering of the Ngok Dinka people.
Conflict by itself can also be a vehicle for positive 
change, if we are aware of where we have come from, 
where we are now and where we are going. As brothers 
and sisters, we have hurt each other. As we seek national 
healing,  President  Kiir  Mayardit  has  empowered 
a  cross-section  of  community  representatives  and 
mediators to set up national dialogue and other grass-
roots people-to-people peace initiatives.
The  national  dialogue  was  launched  to  create  a 
multilayered approach to repairing the social fabric. It 
has been heavily criticized by some external observers, 
mainly because of a misconception that it was considered 
a substitute for peace talks. At the launch of the national 
dialogue in 2015, its aim was to create a forum in which 
the  causes  of  conflict  could  be  discussed  and,  among 
other  things,  to  ask  the  people  important  questions 
about matters such as national identity, governance and 
the  relationship  between  the  communities,  including 
the causes of intercommunal conflict.
The  grass-roots  component  has  been  the  most 
effective.  Members  of  the  committee  visited  regions, 
starting  at  the  community  level,  asking  questions 
designed  to  identify  the  causes  of  division  while  also 
searching  for  solutions  to  those  divisions  and  how  to 
heal  them.  The  process  enabled  those  who  had  not 
had an opportunity to have their voices heard to begin 
expressing their various viewpoints. The reports from 
the grass-roots initiatives were candid, as communities 
were  allowed  to  express  their  opinions  freely  without 
fear of repercussions. We look forward to seeing the next 
steps of that process as we enter the transitional period.
As  we  work  to  make  the  United  Nations  relevant 
to  all  people  through  global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies, I would like to reiterate that my Government 
welcomes the presence and support of United Nations 
agencies. However, the terms of that relationship need 
to  be  reconsidered,  specifically  when  it  comes  to 
protecting vulnerable citizens in the host country. It is 
only  through  a  reflective  approach  that  we  can  move 
forward  in  adapting  the  nature  of  this  institution  to 
make it fit for today’s environment.
Last but not least, as I speak of reviving peace in 
the Republic of South Sudan, it is only right to mention 
the late former President John F. Kennedy, who said in 
an address to the Assembly on 20 September 1963:
“Peace  is  a  daily,  a  weekly,  a  monthly  process, 
gradually  changing  opinions,  slowly  eroding 
old  barriers,  quietly  building  new  structures.” 
(A/PV.1209, para.38)
I  call  on  members  of  the  United  Nations  family, 
including  those  who  are  sceptical,  to  give  peace  a 
chance in the Republic of South Sudan by supporting 
the  critical 
the  peace 
agreement. South Sudan will continue its cooperation 
with  the  United  Nations,  the  regional  bodies,  IGAD, 
the  East  African  Community,  the  AU,  the  EU,  the 
Troika,  China,  other  international  partners  and  all 
our  friends  as  we  work  to  enhance  conditions  in  our 
country. We undertake to consolidate peace and justice, 
rebuild strong institutions in our country and stabilize 
our economy.
implementation  phase  of 
We  call  on  all  Member  States  as  partners  to 
support,  cooperate,  consult  and  engage  in  dialogue 
with  us  as  we  join  together  in  achieving  the  agenda 
for  making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people 
through  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies. That 
is our agenda, too.
18-30104
9/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf 
of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  First 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan for the 
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Taban  Dei  Gei,  First  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Boyko Borissov, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Bulgaria
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr. Boyko Borissov, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Bulgaria, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Boyko 
Borissov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Borissov  (Bulgaria)  (spoke  in  Bulgarian; 
English text provided by the delegation): I believe we 
should appreciate the fact that the theme of this year’s 
general debate deals with global leadership and shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies.  It  is  comprehensive  and  provides  food  for 
thought  on  the  direction  in  which  our  world  should 
develop  —  and  this  international  Organization  along 
with it.
Global  leadership  is,  first  and  foremost,  a  great 
responsibility. In order for us to achieve sustainability 
and  standards  of  living  that  uphold  the  principle 
of  dignity  for  every  human  being  on  the  planet,  it  is 
absolutely crucial that we demonstrate our commitment 
and unity as we face the challenges of our time. I am 
convinced that we are all aware that we need to act with 
determination  and  unity  in  sharing  the  responsibility 
to  ensure  peace,  equality  and  the  sustainability  of 
our communities.
The  Republic  of  Bulgaria  has  worked  constantly 
and actively to sustain a world order based on the rule 
of  law  and  to  reaffirm  the  principles  of  multilateral 
cooperation. That is why I would like to highlight that 
it is the destiny of the United Nations to play a central 
role in that effort, and we therefore actively support the 
Organization in its efforts.
The  main  global  challenges,  such  as  conflict 
resolution  and  peacekeeping,  strengthening  global 
security  and  stability,  countering  climate  change, 
terrorism  and  ever-deepening  inequality,  cannot  be 
addressed by one country alone. Those challenges require 
shared responsibility and everyone’s contribution.
Global peace and security depend on the stability 
and sustainable development of the various parts of our 
globalized  world.  Every  country,  large  or  small,  has 
the  responsibility  and  capacity  to  make  a  significant 
contribution to security and prosperity in the region in 
which it is located. For example, this past Monday, at the 
high-level event on the global drug problem organized 
by President Trump, every participating country made 
a firm commitment to fighting that global scourge. It 
was not by chance that Bulgaria was one of the co-hosts 
of that event. We have already pledged and proven our 
commitment  to  fighting  the  drug  problem  through 
our  actions.  Even  as  we  speak,  Bulgarian  customs 
authorities  and  prosecutors  have  managed  to  seize 
hundreds of kilogrammes of drugs, making my country 
a positive example. In order to achieve peace, security 
and  stability,  as  well  as  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals, we all need to take more actions of that kind.
The  United  Nations  plays  an  integral  part  in 
promoting  the  fair  use  of  global  opportunities  for  the 
benefit of all. Inclusive and sustainable global growth 
underpins the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable  Development.  Achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals, which are universal in nature and 
closely interlinked, is the key to addressing our current 
global challenges.
During  the  first  half  of  this  year,  the  Bulgarian 
presidency of the Council of the European Union (EU) 
invested  considerable  efforts  in  achieving  marked 
progress  and  consensus  among  member  States  on  the 
main  goals  of  the  2030  Agenda.  We  are  proud  that 
during  our  six-month  tenure  of  the  presidency,  the 
European Union adopted a mandate to start negotiations 
for the signing of a new partnership agreement with 79 
countries from Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. 
The  negotiations  seek  to  achieve  a  modern,  dynamic 
partnership  with  those  countries  as  an  important 
instrument in tackling global challenges, ranging from 
poverty and inequality to the promotion of peace and 
sustainable development for all.
Allow me to highlight some of the idiosyncrasies of 
the region in which my country, Bulgaria, is situated. 
10/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
This year we mark the 100th anniversary of the end of 
the First World War, which serves to remind us of the 
importance  of  the  Balkans  in  the  past  as  well  as  the 
relevance of the region in the present day. The Balkans 
have often been the source of conflicts and to this day 
the embers of some in that area continue to burn.
Despite the circumstances and obstacles they face, 
the  countries  of  South-Eastern  Europe,  especially 
those in the Western Balkans, have managed to make 
remarkable  progress  on  important  and  much  debated 
issues.  It  took  several  decades  to  reach  the  current 
state  of  affairs,  which  is  why  we  should  not  hesitate 
any  further  to  offer  the  international  community’s 
unequivocal political support to every State or initiative 
that deserves support.
Compelling  proof  of  the  progress  made  by  the 
Western  Balkan  countries  can  be  seen  in  the  recent 
signing  of  agreements  between  Sofia  and  Skopje, 
as  well  as  that  between  Athens  and  Skopje.  Those 
agreements  are  crucial  steps  towards  stability  and 
security in South-Eastern Europe and towards the Euro-
Atlantic  prospects  of  the  Western  Balkan  countries. 
The  agreement  between  Podgorica  and  Pristina  on 
the border demarcation, which just came into force, is 
also a significant milestone. Those documents not only 
show but also help to create the new spirit of relations 
between and among the countries of that region.
I  will  provide  one  more  example.  Based  on  the 
historic  opportunity  that  the  rotating  presidency  of 
the Council of the EU offered us, Bulgaria initiated a 
process that put the Western Balkans back on the agenda 
of European politics. Opportunities for cooperation and 
the participation of countries from outside the region in 
the construction of the new Balkan infrastructure have 
already started to attract interest and investments.
An 
important  and  emblematic  expression  of 
that  process  was  the  Leaders’  Summit  of  the  States 
members of the EU and the Western Balkan countries 
in  our  capital,  Sofia,  in  May  this  year.  That  was  the 
first meeting of its kind since the Thessaloniki Summit 
in  2003.  Connectivity  in  all  its  dimensions  was  the 
focus  of  the  discussion,  as  was  the  joint  response  of 
the  young  and  relatively  small  Balkan  States  to  the 
common  challenges  to  security  that  we  all  face,  such 
as  irregular  migration,  organized  crime,  terrorism, 
hybrid threats, cybersecurity and misinformation. The 
Sofia Declaration adopted at the Summit reaffirmed the 
European  prospects  for  the  region  and  made  them  an 
achievable goal.
We  are  aware  that  that  is  just  the  beginning  of  a 
new path that is encouraging but neither easy nor quick. 
However, the stakes are high, not only for the citizens of 
those countries and for their EU neighbours and friends, 
but also for the global processes aimed at economic and 
political  strengthening  and  development.  We  cannot 
leave  blank  spots  marked  by  lagging  development, 
weak economies and societies susceptible to the present 
global threats.
In  two  days’  time,  the  citizens  of  our  neighbour 
to  the  south-east,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, will have to take a landmark decision about 
their  future  —  whether  to  endorse  the  unprecedented 
compromise achieved with neighbouring Greece, which 
will clear their path towards Euro-Atlantic integration. 
It is a truly historic moment and shows exactly why we 
should support the citizens of that country as they take 
that new decision for their country.
Two of our other neighbours face a very difficult 
dilemma.  We  support  the  dialogue  between  Belgrade 
and  Pristina,  and  we  welcome  their  determination  to 
move forward in normalizing bilateral relations with the 
help of EU mediation. At the same time, we deem the 
potential re-tailoring of borders a non-viable solution, 
not just in this case but in general.
Important  elections  for  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
are coming up in October. They will serve as a key test 
of  the  country’s  unity  and  determination  to  progress 
further along the path of European integration. As we 
can  see,  the  situation  in  that  part  of  Europe  is  very 
dynamic  and  fraught  with  important  events  that  for 
many years to come will determine the direction of the 
region’s  development  and,  to  a  large  extent,  the  state 
of  the  EU.  What  we  have  managed  to  achieve  so  far 
as  a  result  of  our  work  within  the  main  priorities  of 
Bulgarian foreign policy is part of our contribution to 
peace and security on the European continent and the 
world beyond.
However,  the  generally  optimistic  prospects  for 
the  Western  Balkans  and  South-Eastern  Europea  are 
in drastic contrast to the conflicts that surround them 
on  three  sides  —  in  Ukraine  to  the  north-east,  in  the 
Middle East to the south-east and in Libya to the south. 
Migration flows and the increasing threat of terrorism 
are  the  direct  consequences  of  conflicts  around  the 
world. I will address those topics in due course.
18-30104
11/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
First, I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention 
to the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine. In the past 
four and a half years, according to data from the United 
Nations, the total number of victims in the conflict has 
exceeded  10,000,  and  the  number  of  wounded  stands 
at 24,000. There is special cause for concern about the 
deteriorating humanitarian and environmental situation 
in  Donbas.  In  addition  to  such  dire  statistics,  there 
has been no real progress in implementing the Minsk 
agreements, which, in our view, represent the only way 
to  a  peaceful  and  sustainable  solution  to  the  conflict. 
The existing differences with regard to the deployment 
of international peacekeeping forces in eastern Ukraine 
under the auspices of the United Nations continue. We, 
the leaders of the States Members of this international 
Organization,  share  the  responsibility  to  establish  a 
peaceful, fair and sustainable world order that rests on 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  I 
call on the Assembly to redouble its efforts to achieve 
peace and stability in Ukraine without infringing on its 
sovereignty and territorial integrity.
The  situation  in  Syria  remains  tragic.  Despite 
the  efforts  of  the  international  community,  military 
activities in the country continue, resulting in increasing 
numbers of casualties among the civilian population, as 
well as thousands of new migrants. As a country that 
is  geographically  close  to  Syria,  Bulgaria  supports 
efforts to prevent any further escalation of the military 
conflict.  To  that  end,  we  support  the  continuation  of 
political  dialogue  and  intra-Syria  negotiations,  with 
the  aim  of  finding  a  permanent  political  solution  to 
the crisis.
We  support  the  launch  of  international  initiatives 
to create conditions that are conducive to restarting the 
Middle East peace process through bilateral talks. We 
believe that that is the way to achieve a final agreement, 
based on the principle of two States coexisting in peace 
and  stability.  That  is  why  we  greatly  appreciate  and 
strongly support the efforts of Nickolay Mladenov, the 
United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East 
Peace Process, to improve the humanitarian situation in 
the Gaza Strip as soon as possible.
With  regard  to  Libya,  Bulgaria  supports  the 
United  Nations  Action  Plan  for  Libya  and  the  efforts 
of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya, whose 
primary  task  is  to  stabilize  the  country  and  reach 
national  conciliation  in  the  context  of  the  existing 
political  and  institutional  fragmentation.  We  support 
the agreement reached by the four key political leaders 
for conducting presidential and parliamentary elections.
It  is  impossible  to  end  all  conflicts,  but  I  would 
nevertheless  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  another 
important  issue  related  to  peace  and  security  in  the 
world,  especially  after  some  of  the  statements  we 
have  heard  from  Mr.  Abbas,  Mr.  Netanyahu  and 
Mr. Rouhani. We are of the opinion that in the current 
context,  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on 
the  Iranian  nuclear  programme  continues  to  be  a  key 
element  in  the  international  security  architecture. 
We also support all efforts for the full, verifiable and 
irreversible  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula 
and  the  establishment  of  permanent  peace  in  North-
East Asia.
Migration  flows  and  refugee  crises  are  a  global 
phenomenon,  the  result  of  a  myriad  political  and 
socioeconomic factors, and of conflicts in various parts 
of the world in particular. Let me underscore clearly and 
right from the start that irregular migration is a serious 
challenge to our societies’ security and stability. That 
is  why  we  need  to  strengthen  cooperation  among  all 
the countries concerned, including countries of origin, 
transit and destination, in order to reach a sustainable 
and permanent solution. It must fully guarantee human 
rights  and  the  sovereign  right  of  States  to  ensure  the 
security of their borders.
The efforts of the international community should 
focus chiefly on the main causes of migration, which 
are  political,  socioeconomic  and  natural  —  that  is, 
the  result  of  natural  disasters.  We  should  pay  special 
attention to the various dimensions of development and 
the  integral  link  between  development  and  security. 
However, if we do not support those efforts with active 
mediation  and  peacekeeping  and  do  not  manage  to 
resolve current conflicts and prevent future ones, our 
chances for success are doomed. That is where I see the 
crucial  and  unique  role  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
can  and  should  be  strengthened  if  there  is  sufficient 
political will on the part of Member States.
During  its  presidency  of  the  Council  of  the 
European  Union,  Bulgaria  took  an  active  part  in  the 
process  of  negotiating  the  global  compact  for  safe, 
orderly and regular migration. Finalizing the language 
of the compact is an achievement based on multilateral 
cooperation,  and  I  am  confident  that  its  adoption  at 
the  Intergovernmental  Conference  in  Morocco  in 
December  will  lay  the  groundwork  for  the  successful 
12/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
implementation of the first-ever global framework for 
cooperation in the area of international migration.
We  in  Bulgaria  also  welcome  the  completion  of 
the consultations on the text of the global compact on 
refugees, which constitutes a comprehensive response 
to  the  problem  of  large-scale  migration  flows,  based 
on  the  principle  of  shared  responsibility.  We  have 
recently  seen  an  increase  in  the  numbers  of  terrorist 
attacks  all  over  the  world,  as  well  as  in  the  number 
of  innocent  victims  of  terrorism.  Irregular  migration 
waves  have  enabled  the  infiltration  of  our  countries 
and  communities  by  former  fighters  from  Syria, 
Iraq,  Afghanistan  and  other  places,  including  trained 
members of terrorist organizations, such as the Islamic 
State in Iraq and the Levant and Al-Qaida.
Bulgaria  categorically  condemns  all  forms  and 
expressions  of  terrorism,  no  matter  what  cause  they 
claim to support. They undermine peace, security and 
the  social  and  economic  development  of  States.  That 
is  why  an  effective  response  to  the  problem  requires 
the  coordinated  efforts  of  the  entire  international 
community.  That  is  also  why  we  support  the  United 
Nations  in  its  capacity  as  a  universal  organization 
that  possesses  the  full  range  of  instruments  to  lead 
and coordinate the process, along with facilitating the 
exchange  of  experience  among  regional  organizations 
and  national  agencies  and  assisting  in  streamlining 
their efforts.
We support the work of the United Nations Office 
of  Counter-Terrorism  and  the  specific  steps  taken  to 
intensify the Organization’s operations in that regard, 
including support for the organization of the High-level 
Conference  of  Heads  of  Counter-Terrorism  Agencies 
of Member States. One priority is taking measures to 
protect young people from being radicalized or joining 
terrorist groups, as well as to neutralize the influence of 
persons and organizations instigating terrorist attacks.
This  year  we  mark  the  seventieth  anniversary  of 
the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  and  for  the  first  time  Bulgaria  will  present 
its  candidacy  for  membership  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. We rely on the support of Member States. That 
is  not  an  end  in  itself  for  us  but  rather  an  expression 
of  our  consistent  policy  of  working  for  the  protection 
and  affirmation  of  human  rights  in  Bulgaria  and  at 
the global level. Our presidency of the Council of the 
European  Union  also  gave  Bulgaria  the  opportunity 
to  showcase  its  contribution  to  various  aspects  of  the 
protection  of  human  rights.  We  intend  to  continue  to 
share  our  best  practices  as  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council.  The  values  that  give  meaning  to  any 
political  effort  subsume  the  past,  the  present  and  the 
future. That is also what allows us to better comprehend 
and appreciate our present efforts.
There is a moment in Bulgaria’s history of which 
we  Bulgarians  are  justifiably  proud.  Seventy-five 
years ago, in some of the darkest years of the Second 
World War, Bulgaria’s citizens, Church and enlightened 
leaders and intellectuals stood up to attempts to deport 
nearly 50,000 Bulgarian Jews to the death camps. They 
managed  to  prevent  that  from  happening.  Bulgarians 
achieved  that  at  a  time  when  Nazi  Germany  had 
subordinated  and  occupied  almost  all  of  Europe. 
Bulgaria is proud of the people who managed to save 
nearly 50,000 Jews.
I share the story about the saving of Bulgarian Jews 
because it carries a very strong message that is relevant 
to  the  present  day  and  to  all  who  feel  threatened.  It 
shows that humaneness and courage can triumph over 
power  and  irrationality  and  save  lives.  It  reminds  us 
that we should never stop fighting for human life and 
the  right  causes.  The  salvation  of  the  Bulgarian  Jews 
is  a  much-needed  example  that  can  reassure  us  that 
values are not a forgotten notion but offer a chance for 
a better future.
The Bulgarian example should become more widely 
known  to  more  people  so  that  it  can  give  courage  to 
others around the world who are fighting to defend their 
lives and those lives of others and to protect dignity and 
human rights. It is our mission at present not to allow 
xenophobia and anti-Semitism to return or to permit a 
disregard for the right to live based on race, ethnicity 
or other factors. We Bulgarians know that it is possible 
and that it has happened before.
Our main task is to guarantee peace and prosperity 
around the world. I am convinced that that is attainable, 
not through arms or battles but rather through a greater 
sense  of  humanity  and  responsibility.  We  also  need 
more  than  ever  to  strengthen  the  role  and  authority 
of  the  United  Nations  in  its  global  operations.  I  am 
confident  that,  with  effort  and  good  will  on  the  part 
of all Member States, that grand goal can be achieved.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Bulgaria  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
18-30104
13/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
Mr. Boyko Borissov, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Bulgaria, was escorted from the rostrum.
and  that  of  our  entire  Pacific  region,  today  and  well 
into the future.
Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign 
Affairs and Trade of the Independent State 
of Samoa
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent State of Samoa.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of 
the  Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa 
Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Independent State of 
Samoa, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
I  have  had 
the 
privilege  of  addressing  the  General  Assembly  over 
the  past  21  years  as  Samoa’s  Prime  Minister,  and  my 
message  has  remained  consistent  throughout  those 
years.  Put  simply,  climate  change  poses  our  single 
greatest  threat,  especially  to  small  island  developing 
States  like  Samoa  —  albeit  not  through  our  doing  or 
choice — and the need for the international community 
to take effective action to mitigate its impact is urgent 
and real.
Mr.  Malielegaoi 
(Samoa): 
Climate  change  also  encompasses  the  breadth  of 
security issues facing our blue Pacific region, including 
human  security,  environmental  and  resource  security 
and transnational crime and cybersecurity. As we have 
explained to the United Nations before, climate change 
is one of the most pressing security challenges facing 
island countries, affecting food security and access to 
safe  water  and  fundamentally  affecting  our  ability  to 
draw sustenance from the pristine ocean and seas that 
surround us. It is the highest priority challenge facing 
the  countries  of  the  world  and  does  not  discriminate 
between rich and poor.
The  logic  of  our  perspective  is  simple.  Climate 
change  affects  the  whole  of  Samoa’s  realities  and 
aspirations.  It  affects  our  society,  economy,  culture, 
faith  and  way  of  life  and  will  continue  to  be  our 
overriding  policy  concern  and  major  preoccupation, 
It is a societal problem requiring a decisive response 
from the world community. Its global reach and impact 
should unite and strengthen our resolve, not weaken and 
divide us. As a united community, there is a great deal 
that we can do to arrest, and even reverse, the threat of 
climate  change,  although  its  effects  are  worsening  by 
the day. Acting alone, no one country or single group of 
nations or organization can win the war against climate 
change. The divergent, yet inextricably linked, interests 
of Member States demand that we work together.
Our  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  was  a 
beacon of hope, especially for vulnerable island States. 
It is based on shared responsibilities, trust, collaboration 
and principled action. It demonstrates a new brand of 
cooperation  and  a  broad  outlook,  where  the  narrow 
pursuits of self-interest and a reliance on economic and 
political expediencies were to be set aside. It was meant 
to be a timely reminder that no action is too small or 
insignificant. All contributions matter, and every action 
counts, irrespective of who provides it. Importantly, it 
places the responsibility of addressing climate change 
squarely on every leader and every individual country 
in  terms  of  the  implementation  of  their  nationally 
determined contributions to the Paris Agreement.
It is indeed worrisome and alarming that the level of 
commitments to the Paris Agreement by Member States 
will not keep global warming anywhere below 1.5° C, 
which is the ideal and moral goal required to save planet 
Earth.  Without  that,  the  continuing  existence  of  low-
lying islands in our Pacific region and elsewhere will 
be in grave doubt. We must work together with a sense 
of urgency and commitment to address climate change 
today.  It  should  not  only  be  science  that  recommends 
what  we  should  do  but  also  our  very  conscience  and 
political will to follow through.
Clearly, we want leaders who view the world as a 
single constituency where all must work together within 
the limits of their capacity and capability to be part of 
the total solution. Samoa also wants to be part of that 
solution,  because  it  is  in  our  interest  to  do  so.  As  for 
those suggesting that they are being asked to implement 
bold actions just for the sake of our vulnerable islands, 
they  need  to  be  quietly  reminded  that  in  the  final 
analysis,  implementation  initiatives  will  ultimately 
benefit their economies, their people and the survival 
14/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
of their countries as well. In fact, the whole world will 
stand to benefit.
For vulnerable countries, the issue does not require 
the setting of new targets, the commissioning of more 
studies  and  reports  or  even  more  polite  talking-shops 
and structured dialogue sessions. What is needed now 
is adaptation in the interest of long-term survival. The 
United  Nations  remains  our  last  best  hope  to  provide 
the political will and the necessary commitment to turn 
the tide against climate change.
Samoa  appeals 
to  States  Members  of  our 
Organization  in  positions  of  world  leadership  to  lead 
the charge in finding and implementing solutions to the 
causes of climate change. As custodians of our world’s 
environment, we owe it to our future generations to do 
what  needs  to  be  done  quickly  and  decisively.  In  the 
same way that nations in leadership roles are called to 
account to do the right thing for our world, all States 
Members of the United Nations must uphold their part 
of the bargain in the work that needs to be done. Without 
that  cooperation  from  all  Member  States,  reaching 
the objectives that we all know must be achieved will 
continue to elude us.
The  Pacific  region  is  already  dealing  with  the 
destructive  impact  of  climate  change  and  disasters. 
Unprecedented  cyclones,  floods,  droughts,  sea  level 
rise  and  ocean  acidification  are  taking  their  toll  on 
the health and well-being of our peoples, environment 
and  economies.  Disaster-related  economic  losses,  as 
a percentage of gross domestic product, are higher in 
Pacific  island  countries  than  almost  anywhere  else  in 
the world.
Our  people  are  waiting;  the  world  is  watching.  It 
is incumbent on each individual leader and country to 
raise the level of ambition, not just as an aspirational 
goal but as deliverables under the Paris Agreement. For 
the Pacific peoples and our blue Pacific region, urgent, 
ambitious action on climate change is the only option.
We welcome the determination that we heard in the 
Secretary-General’s remarks to the General Assembly 
earlier this month to sound the alarm on the need for 
bolder action on climate change (see A/73/PV.6). Those 
are  big  demands  to  deliver  on,  and  it  would  be  naive 
to  think  otherwise.  But  when  the  future  existence  of 
sovereign island nations, populations and cultures are 
at stake, there is a moral imperative for the world to act 
decisively and collectively.
The  Pacific  leaders  are  increasingly  conscious  of 
and concerned about the security of our region, and we 
look at security not only from the orthodox perspective 
of  State  security  but  also  for  what  it  means  for  us  as 
Pacific  communities.  The  Framework  for  Pacific 
Regionalism  identifies  security  as  one  of  the  four 
objectives of regionalism, a security that ensures stable 
and safe human, environmental and political conditions 
for all.
The  Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders  have  renewed 
their  commitment  to  work  together  as  one  blue 
Pacific continent, particularly in view of the renewed 
geopolitical  interests  in  the  Pacific  region.  Suddenly, 
the  Pacific  is  swimming  in  a  rising  tide  of  so-called 
fit-for-purpose  strategies,  stretching  from  the  tip  of 
Africa, encompassing the Indian Ocean and morphing 
into the vast blue Pacific Ocean continent, which is our 
home and place. The big Powers are doggedly pursuing 
strategies to widen and extend their reach and creating 
a far-reaching sense of insecurity. The renewed vigour 
with which a strategy based on a free and open Indo-
Pacific Ocean is being advocated and pursued leaves us 
with much uncertainty. For the Pacific, there is a real 
risk of privileging Indo over Pacific.
While  the  Pacific  region  is  currently  enjoying  a 
period  of  relative  stability,  drivers  of  instability  exist 
in  the  region  and  beyond.  The  2017  State  of  Pacific 
Regionalism  report  indicated  that  shifting  global  and 
regional geopolitics are creating an increasingly complex 
and crowded region that places the Pacific at the centre 
of contemporary global geopolitics. That trend, coupled 
with broader challenges, such as climate change, rising 
inequality,  resource  depletion,  maritime-boundary 
disputes and advances in technology, will continue to 
shape the Pacific regional security environment.
While  the  world  belabours  the  issues  of  security 
based on military might and the wonders of technological 
advancement in achieving such ends, our priority in the 
Pacific is to maintain the stability of our Governments 
and  countries.  We  can  do  that  by  reviewing  of  our 
governance  pathways  and  ensuring  that  our  elected 
leaders  respond  to  people’s  needs.  Pacific  Island 
Forum members have a very proud history of working 
collectively in response to events and issues that have 
challenged regional security, peace and stability, from 
the 1985 Rarotonga Treaty, which created a nuclear-free 
zone  in  the  South  Pacific,  to  a  collective  approach  to 
addressing the existential threat of climate change.
18-30104
15/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
The  Pacific  region’s  current  geopolitical  and 
geostrategic  context  underlines 
the  need  for  an 
integrated  and  comprehensive  security  architecture 
incorporating  an  expanded  concept  of  security.  A 
stable  and  resilient  security  environment  provides 
the  platform  for  achieving  the  region’s  sustainable 
development aspirations.
In 2017, in recognition of those considerations, the 
Pacific Forum leaders agreed to build on the Biketawa 
Declaration  and  other  security-related  declarations 
issued by the Forum as a foundation for future regional 
strategic responses, recognizing the importance of an 
expanded concept of security and regional cooperation 
in building resilience to disasters and climate change. 
The  leaders  have  also  prioritized  action  on  climate 
change  and  disaster-risk  management,  fisheries  and 
ocean management and conservation, all of which have 
significant security elements.
As if being vulnerable to climate change were not 
a  lifelong  challenge,  the  label  of  Pacific  small  island 
developing State can also bring with it unintended trials 
and  tribulations.  For  far  too  long,  the  international 
community has been given to believe that our States are 
little and classified as have-nots. We are susceptible to 
being characterized as countries that have little and that 
should be grateful for whatever is offered to us. We are 
highly protective of our means of livelihood and have 
embraced  regional  action  to  ensure  the  sustainability 
of  our  fisheries  resources.  We  are  actively  asserting 
our  ambitions  to  ensure  that  there  is  inheritance  for 
the generations to come. Any approach to engagement 
with  partners  must  be  genuine  and  durable,  premised 
on  understanding,  friendship,  mutual  benefit  and  a 
collective  ambition  to  achieve  sustainable  results.  It 
must  also  be  non-partisan  and  non-interventionist.  I 
repeat that any engagement must be non-partisan and 
non-interventionist.
In  that  process,  our  partners  have  fallen  short  of 
acknowledging  the  integrity  of  Pacific  leadership 
and  the  responsibility  that  our  leaders  have  for  every 
decision  made  in  order  to  garner  support  for  the 
sustainable development of their nations. Some might 
say that there is a patronizing nuance that suggests that 
Pacific nations do not know what they are doing or are 
incapable of reaping the benefits of close relations with 
countries that are, and will be, in the region for some 
time to come. To the extent that emerging partners have 
engaged with Pacific countries without conditionality, 
the  relationships  are  perceived  to  be  associated  with 
problems of corruption or unprecedented environmental 
degradation. We have the tendency to be bemused by 
the fact that the reaction is an attempt to hide what we 
see as strategic neglect.
Where  we  are  now  would  not  have  been  possible 
without  the  valuable  support  of  our  circle  of  partners 
and the value of the partnerships that we have nurtured 
and cultivated over the years to respond to our people’s 
multitudinous  needs.  The  friendly  relations  that  we 
have  with  some  partners  are  construed  by  others  as 
compromising and obtrusive, prompting some to speak 
up for us in order to ward off the influences that we are 
supposedly too naive to recognize. By the same token, 
we are given alternatives that reflect interests beyond 
altruism  and  improvement  of  the  poor.  As  Pacific 
leaders we need to ask ourselves what we ought to do 
in order to make a difference for ourselves and for the 
world and to promote our values, which are premised 
on peace, stability and security.
Our geographical isolation and insularity no longer 
shield or protect us from today’s  increasingly complex 
and  dynamic  security  challenges  —  transnational 
crime, nuclear proliferation, challenges to sovereignty 
and humanitarian crises. The rules-based international 
system is being bent out of shape. Gone are the days when 
we  took  only  what  we  needed  from  our  environment 
and  were  much  more  conscious  of  the  importance  of 
the continuity of our cultures and values, unadulterated 
by the infringing, impinging world around us. In those 
days we did not worry much about borders because the 
original  migrations  of  our  peoples  defined  for  us  our 
ocean  space  and  place.  Poverty  was  not  a  part  of  our 
consciousness because we cared for each other and the 
oceans provided their bounty.
We  should  not  be 
influenced  by  economic 
dependence,  as  that  is  a  compromise  in  itself.  We 
should  seek  to  strengthen  domestic  cohesion,  develop 
resilience  and  rethink  our  governance  pathways.  The 
leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum are committed to 
a  vision  for  the  Pacific  —  that  it  should  be  a  region 
of  peace,  harmony,  security,  social  inclusion  and 
prosperity  so  that  all  Pacific  people  can  lead  free, 
healthy  and  productive  lives  now  and  into  the  future. 
Moreover,  we  have  committed  to  working  together  to 
achieve that vision. The blue Pacific platform offers all 
Pacific  countries  the  adaptive  capabilities  to  address 
a  changing  geostrategic  landscape.  The  opportunity 
to realize the full benefits of the blue Pacific rests on 
our  ability  to  work  and  stand  together  as  a  political 
16/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
bloc. The challenge for us is to maintain solidarity in 
the face of the intense engagement of an ever-growing 
number of partners in our region. We should never let 
that challenge divide us.
In  four  weeks’ 
time,  Samoa  will  host 
the 
interregional meeting of small island developing States 
and  their  development  partners  in  preparation  for  the 
five-year review of the Small Island Developing States 
Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action  (SAMOA  Pathway) 
during the high-level week in September next year. My 
Government  looks  forward  to  welcoming  our  guests, 
and we thank Member States, in particular small island 
developing  States,  for  agreeing  to  allow  the  SAMOA 
Pathway  to  make  a  brief  return  to  its  namesake 
and birthplace.
Let me conclude by acknowledging the support of 
all States Members of the United Nations, Samoa’s circle 
of friends, that supported our candidate’s re-election to 
the Committee on the Rights of the Child.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on His 
Excellency Mr. Wang Yi, State Councillor and Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.
Mr.  Wang  Yi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  Every 
September,  global  attention  is  focused  on  the  United 
Nations and on this stately Assembly Hall. People watch 
closely what is happening here, hoping that the United 
Nations  will  deliver  peace,  development,  harmony 
and prosperity to the world. People look to the United 
Nations to help them realize their dreams for a better 
life, to a United Nations that is committed to making 
itself relevant to all people, thereby making our world a 
better place for everyone to live in.
The contemporary international order, which began 
with the founding of the United Nations, is based on the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and is enhanced by the vision and practice of 
multilateralism. It has brought about general peace and 
rapid  development  over  the  past  70  years  or  more.  A 
people-centred philosophy has gained wide acceptance, 
and  a  broad  consensus  has  formed  on  the  need  for 
interdependence and win-win cooperation.
Yet  it  is  also  true  that  the  international  order 
today  faces  problems  and  needs  steady  reform  and 
improvement. The world is changing. As we celebrate 
humankind’s  proud  achievements  and  progress,  we 
must never lose sight of the challenges and difficulties 
we  face  in  an  ever-changing  world.  We  must  remain 
vigilant. What we see today is that international rules 
and multilateral mechanisms are under attack, and the 
international landscape is filled with uncertainties and 
destabilizing  factors.  Should  we  stay  committed  to 
multilateralism or let unilateralism have its way? Should 
we seek to uphold the architecture of the world order or 
allow  it  to  be  eroded  and  collapse?  Those  are  critical 
questions bearing on the future of all countries and the 
destiny of humankind, questions that all countries must 
carefully reflect on and seek answers to.
the 
China’s  answer  is  clear  cut.  All  along,  China 
has  upheld 
international  order  and  pursued 
multilateralism.  Though  once  kept  out  of  the  United 
Nations  for  22  years,  China  has  never  wavered  in  its 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  to  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
China  stayed  true  to  its  commitment  throughout 
the  negotiation  process  on  its  return  to  the  General 
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and then its accession 
to the World Trade Organization (WTO) — negotiations 
that lasted 15 long years and were concluded at a certain 
price. China fulfilled its promise and integrated itself 
into the world economic system. After the international 
financial crisis broke out, China chose not to stand idly 
by; instead it worked together with other countries to 
get  through  those  challenging  times.  For  many  years, 
China has contributed more than 30 per cent of global 
economic growth. It has played its part in helping with 
the global recovery. In the face of new developments and 
severe challenges, China will keep to its commitment 
and remain a champion of multilateralism.
this 
rostrum 
Standing  at 
in  2015,  Chinese 
President  Xi  Jinping,  in  his  statement  reflecting  the 
key  understanding  of  humankind’s  common  interest 
and  the  future  of  our  planet,  called  for  the  building 
of  a  community  with  a  shared  future  for  humankind 
(seeA/70/PV.13). That initiative is in keeping with the 
trend of history, and it echoes the call of the times. It 
adds to our conviction and strength as we pursue our 
common  endeavour  to  protect  this  global  village.  It 
18-30104
17/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
points us in the direction where we should work together 
to open up an even better future for humankind.
To  uphold  multilateralism  in  this  new  era,  we 
believe  that  the  following  principles  must  be  adhered 
to.  First,  we  must  pursue  win-win  cooperation.  Our 
world  is  undergoing  profound  changes,  never  before 
seen  in  this  century.  Also  never  seen  before  are  the 
problems  and  challenges  we  are  facing.  No  country 
can  meet  them  alone  or  stay  immune  to  their  impact. 
We  must  replace  confrontation  with  cooperation  and 
coercion with consultation. We must remain united as 
a big family. Instead of forming closed circles, we must 
promote  common  development  through  consultation 
instead  of  taking  a  “winner-takes-all”  approach.  That 
is a sure way to usher in a bright future.
international 
Secondly,  we  must  act  in  accordance  with  rules 
and  order.  State-to-State  relations  must  be  based  on 
credibility, not the wilful revocation of commitments. 
International  cooperation  should  be  guided  by  rules, 
not  impulse.  Practising  multilateralism  is,  first  and 
foremost,  about  upholding  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  observing  international  law  and  basic  norms 
governing 
relations,  and  honouring 
international agreements reached through negotiations.
Thirdly, we must uphold the principles of fairness 
and justice. In international affairs, fairness and justice 
mean equality among all countries, big or small. They 
signify  the  responsibility  of  big  countries  to  help 
the  small,  and  rich  ones  to  assist  the  poor.  Fairness 
and  justice  also  mean  respect  for  other  countries’ 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity,  as 
well as their choice of development paths and right to 
a better life and increased development opportunities.
Fourthly,  we  must  act  to  deliver  real  results. 
Multilateralism is not based on empty rhetoric. It must 
be pursued to solve problems. Efforts must be targeted, 
results-oriented  and  measured  by  visible  progress. 
Whether  a  multilateral  mechanism  works  depends  on 
the will and engagement of countries. It is imperative 
that  we  work  together  to  uphold  the  international 
system with the United Nations at its core, as well as the 
multilateral trading system centred on the World Trade 
Organization. Multilateralism requires a strong United 
Nations.  China  supports  Secretary-General  Guterres 
in  advancing  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system  in 
the three critical areas of peace and security, economic 
development  and  internal  management.  That  reform 
should be led by Member States, and it should prioritize 
the concerns of developing countries, make the United 
Nations  more  effective  and  enhance  oversight  and 
accountability. Stable and predictable funding is critical 
to the proper functioning of the United Nations. China 
will  continue  to  fulfil  its  financial  obligations  and 
calls on other Member States to pay their membership 
contributions  and  peacekeeping  assessments  on  time 
and in full.
The  momentum  of  humankind’s  drive  forward 
towards  development  and  progress  is  unstoppable. 
Peace,  reconciliation  and  harmony  represent 
the 
predominant  trend,  while  war,  conflict  and  terror  are 
opposed  by  all.  Equality,  mutual  trust  and  win-win 
cooperation are key words of our times, whereas power 
politics and the law of the jungle find no support. As a 
major  responsible  country,  China  is  committed  to  the 
path of peaceful development, and it will work together 
with other countries and contribute its share to global 
peace and security.
Over  the  past  year,  the  situation  on  the  Korean 
peninsula  has  seen  a  major  turnaround  thanks  to  the 
efforts  of  all  the  parties  concerned.  China,  for  its 
part, has contributed to that progress. China supports 
the  comprehensive  improvement  of  relations  between 
the  north  and  the  south  of  the  peninsula,  as  well  as 
efforts  to  facilitate  dialogue  between  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States. 
China  encourages  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of Korea to continue moving towards denuclearization. 
We  believe  that  it  is  also  incumbent  on  the  United 
States  to  respond  in  a  timely  and  positive  manner  so 
as  to  truly  meet  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  halfway.  China  will  continue  to  honour  its 
international  responsibilities  and  obligations  and  will 
strictly  implement  the  Security  Council  resolutions 
related to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
China  calls  on  the  Security  Council  to  take  timely 
action in the light of developments and changes in the 
situation  so  as  to  create  more  favourable  conditions 
for a peaceful settlement of the issue on the peninsula 
through political and diplomatic means. To effectively 
settle the issue we need complete denuclearization and 
the  establishment  of  a  peace  mechanism.  Only  when 
those  components  move  in  tandem  can  the  issue  be 
truly resolved and peace achieved.
Regarding the Iranian nuclear issue, now is a crucial 
time  for  the  continued  implementation  of  the  Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA).  The  JCPOA 
is  a  consensus-based  multilateral  agreement  endorsed 
18/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
by the Security Council. It serves the common interests 
of  all  the  parties  concerned  and  the  international 
community  at  large.  If  it  is  not  implemented,  the 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  will 
be undermined, the authority and role of the Security 
Council challenged, and peace and stability jeopardized 
both in that region and throughout the world,. That is 
a  scenario  from  which  no  one  stands  to  gain.  China 
urges the parties concerned to continue to observe and 
implement  the  JCPOA.  On  that  basis,  the  possibility 
could  be  explored  for  a  platform  for  dialogue  that  is 
inclusive and transparent so as to enable each party’s 
concerns  to  be  adequately  addressed  through  talks 
and consultations.
The question of Palestine must not be marginalized. 
For  more  than  seven  decades,  peace  and  justice  have 
remained  elusive  in  that  part  of  the  world.  What  the 
international community needs most is not a proposal 
or  an  initiative  but  resolve  and  action.  In  order  to 
implement  a  two-State  solution,  a  new  round  of 
peace-promoting efforts must be made with a view to 
exploring  a  new  mediation  mechanism.  To  that  end, 
China  will  play  its  part,  and  Chinese  humanitarian 
assistance to the Palestinian people will continue.
The  issue  involving  Myanmar’s  Rakhine  state 
cannot  be  resolved  overnight,  and  steady  progress 
must be made through a three-phase process involving 
a  cessation  of  violence,  the  return  of  the  displaced 
persons  and  economic  development.  Myanmar  and 
Bangladesh are inseparable neighbours and could well 
be inseparable partners. Yesterday, at my meeting with 
colleagues from Myanmar and Bangladesh and in the 
presence of Secretary-General Guterres, an agreement 
was  reached  between  Myanmar  and  Bangladesh  on 
accelerating  the  return  of  the  first  wave  of  displaced 
persons.  We  believe  that  Myanmar  and  Bangladesh 
are  capable  of  resolving  the  issue  properly  through 
friendly negotiations.
China supports the leading role of the United Nations 
in  coordinating  responses  to  non-traditional  security 
challenges. On the new frontiers of global governance, 
such as cyberspace and outer space, State sovereignty 
must  be  upheld,  rules  observed  and  responsibilities 
honoured.  Terrorism,  a  threat  to  all  societies,  can 
never  be  justified.  Security  Council  resolutions  must 
be vigorously implemented to counter cyberterrorism, 
terrorist financing and the spread of radical narratives 
so as to eliminate the breeding grounds of terrorism.
Development is essential for our world today. We 
need  to  address  both  insufficient  development  and, 
more  importantly,  imbalance  in  development.  There 
is no one-size-fits-all model. Every country is entitled 
to  explore  a  particular  development  path  aimed  at 
delivering  happiness  and  security  to  its  people  and 
bringing about a future of confidence and hope for its 
children. Countries face various questions with regard 
to  development.  Such  questions  could  be  turned  into 
drivers for reform, and solutions to problems could bring 
about development. Economic globalization should not 
be a process whereby some profit and others lose; even 
less should it result in widening the gap between North 
and  South.  It  is  important  that  we  adapt  to  the  trend 
of economic globalization and ensure that the process 
is open, inclusive, balanced and mutually beneficial so 
that  it  can  deliver  benefits  to  all.  International  trade 
is  complementary  and  mutually  beneficial  in  nature. 
It  should  not  be  a  zero-sum  game  in  which  one  side 
gains at the expense of the others, and no one should be 
allowed to place their own interest above the interest of 
others.  Protectionism  will  only  be  self-defeating,  and 
unilateral moves will hurt everyone.
With  regard  to  friction  in  trade,  China  stands  for 
a  proper  settlement  of  disagreements  based  on  rules 
and consensus through dialogue and consultation on an 
equal footing. China will not be blackmailed or yield 
to pressure. We have not only taken steps to defend our 
own legitimate rights and interests but also to uphold 
the  free  trade  system,  international  rules  and  the 
international  order  for  the  benefit  of  global  recovery 
and the common interests of all countries.
to 
incorporate 
its 
implementation 
The  implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development  should  be  at  the  top  of  the 
agenda of the current session of the General Assembly. 
We  need 
into 
Member  States’  development  strategies  and  pursue 
innovation-driven,  coordinated,  green  and  open 
development that benefits all. We need to forge closer 
partnerships for development and pursue international 
development  cooperation,  with  the  United  Nations  at 
its  centre  and  North-South  cooperation  as  the  main 
channel, supplemented by South-South cooperation. To 
meet the challenges of climate change, it is crucial to 
achieve  sustainable  development.  China  hopes  to  see 
the conclusion of the negotiations on the implementation 
guidelines of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
scheduled for the end of this year, with a view to boosting 
joint efforts for global ecological conservation.
18-30104
19/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
In  pursuing  our  common  cause  of  humankind’s 
development  and  progress,  China  has  worked  in 
partnership  with  other  countries  of  the  international 
community.  This  year  marks  the  fortieth  anniversary 
of China’s reform and opening up. Over those 40 years, 
we  have  worked  hard  and  forged  ahead  successfully 
along a path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. 
That path has brought fundamental changes to China. 
In the past 40 years, more than 700 million individuals 
in  the  Chinese  population  have  been  lifted  out  of 
absolute poverty, which accounts for more than 70 per 
cent  of  the  global  totals  for  the  same  period.  A  basic 
medical  insurance  system  has  been  set  up  to  cover 
China’s  1.35  billion  people,  and  a  social  pension 
network accessible to more than 900 million people has 
been fully implemented. China has built approximately 
25,000 kilometres of high-speed railway. That accounts 
for  two  thirds  of  the  global  total  and  helps  elevate 
global 
to 
polls  conducted  by  authoritative  international  polling 
agencies, China is at the top of global rankings in terms 
of public satisfaction with its development and public 
confidence  in  its  future.  The  path  of  development 
that  China  is  pursuing  has  provided  the  world  with 
opportunities  for  shared  development.  Over  the  past 
40 years, China’s foreign trade has averaged an annual 
growth  rate  of  14.5  per  cent.  That  has  sustained  the 
impetus for global growth and provided the world with 
a  huge  Chinese  market.  We  have  every  confidence 
that we will maintain that momentum and continue to 
realize high-quality development. China will accelerate 
efforts  to  build  an  advanced  economic  system,  which 
will  create  greater  trade  opportunities  and  an  even 
better investment environment for other countries.
infrastructure  construction.  According 
China  will  not  reverse  course  or  shut  its  doors 
but will rather open its doors even wider to the world. 
China  will  not  erect  market  barriers  but  will  expand 
access to the Chinese market. Of all of the developing 
countries  in  the  world,  China  has  been  the  fastest  in 
terms of opening up at a level unparalleled by others. 
When  it  comes  to  overall  tariff  reduction,  China  has 
accomplished more than it committed to when it joined 
the WTO. The breadth of China’s openness in services 
is  close  to  the  average  level  of  developed  countries. 
In  November,  China  will  host  the  first  International 
Import  Expo  in  Shanghai,  which  will  be  yet  another 
major  step  in  opening  China’s  market.  Countries  are 
welcome to participate actively in it.
The Belt and Road Initiative, proposed by President 
Xi Jinping, is a public good that China is providing for 
the  world.  It  has  grown  into  the  largest  platform  for 
international  cooperation.  It  aims  to  deliver  benefits 
for  all  through  consultations  and  cooperation.  The 
Initiative  is  open,  transparent  and  inclusive.  It  is 
based  on  international  rules  and  laws,  and  it  aims  to 
achieve  green,  environment-friendly  and  sustainable 
development. It is about pursuing common prosperity 
through  greater  complementarity  among  participating 
countries. By September, more than 130 countries and 
international organizations will have signed agreements 
on  Belt  and  Road  cooperation  with  China.  Next  year, 
China  will  host  the  second  Belt  and  Road  Forum  for 
International Cooperation, and we welcome all parties 
to attend that event.
China  is  the  largest  developing  country  in  the 
world.  Strengthening  cooperation  and  solidarity  with 
other developing countries has been and will continue 
to  be  a  firm  strategic  priority  in  China’s  diplomacy. 
That choice has been determined by what defines China 
as a country and by the system and values that China 
upholds.  No  matter  how  much  China  has  increased 
in  strength,  and  regardless  of  how  the  international 
landscape might change, that strategic priority of China 
will not change.
The  United  Nations  is  the  primary  platform  for 
advocating for and practising multilateralism. We hope 
that the current session of the General Assembly will be 
remembered  for  its  part  in  upholding  multilateralism, 
world  peace  and  development.  We  hope  that  all  of 
us  in  the  international  community  will  support  the 
United  Nations  in  its  efforts  to  play  a  central  role  in 
international  affairs,  and  we  call  on  people  of  all 
countries to work together to build a community with a 
shared future for humankind.
Address by Mr. Charlot Salwai Tabimasmas, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Vanuatu.
Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Charlot 
20/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
Salwai Tabimasmas, Prime Minister of the Republic of 
Vanuatu, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Salwai  (Vanuatu)  (spoke 
in  French):  It 
is  an  honour  for  Vanuatu  to  join  other  speakers 
in  congratulating  you,  Madam  President,  on  your 
accession to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-third session, and we assure you of our full 
support.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, 
for his excellent leadership. Allow me also to commend 
Secretary-General  Guterres  and  reiterate  to  him  my 
Government’s confidence in his ability to carry out his 
functions as chief administrator.
I also want to pay tribute to His Excellency the late 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  passed 
away last month. Mr. Annan will long be remembered 
for  his  advocacy  for  United  Nations  reform  and  his 
commitment to resolving major issues peacefully, given 
his faith in mediation and dialogue.
The United Nations was founded on the vision that 
nations can together play an important preventive role 
in  saving  successive  generations  from  the  scourge  of 
war and restoring confidence in basic human rights. The 
founders also envisioned an organization that would be 
a pillar of the world order, in which international peace 
and security would be guaranteed by international law. 
Moreover, they envisaged international mechanisms for 
strengthening social progress and the living conditions 
of humankind. During these weeks of debate we have 
an  opportunity  to  assess  the  progress  that  has  been 
made over the past seven decades and to discuss areas 
in which we must do more. The theme of the seventy-
third session, “Making the United Nations relevant to 
all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  is 
more fitting than ever as we deliberate on ways to build 
a stronger, fairer and more transparent United Nations 
that meets its goals.
The United Nations has made great strides in the 
past  few  decades.  Extreme  poverty  has  been  halved. 
More girls are enrolled in school than ever before. More 
women, especially in rural areas, are playing roles with 
increased responsibility and contributing to the global 
economy. Similarly, the health of mothers and children 
has improved significantly. However, those advances are 
overshadowed  by  gaps  in  the  Organization,  including 
its  continued  inability  to  address  the  growing  list  of 
problems  facing  humankind,  including  preventing 
crises. The Security Council’s inability to take decisive 
action  on  the  Syrian  issue  is  one  of  many  examples. 
The Government of Vanuatu joins other Governments 
in  recalling  that  membership  in  the  Security  Council 
is not only a mark of prestige but also entails knowing 
how  to  demonstrate  strong  leadership  and  assume 
shared responsibilities to safeguard peace and security 
in the world.
the  reforms 
My  Government  welcomes 
that 
Secretary-General Guterres is undertaking, prioritizing 
prevention and the maintenance of peace while making 
the Organization more coherent and effective through 
a comprehensive approach. We welcome the efforts to 
reform the United Nations development system, which 
require specific changes within the system in order to 
achieve  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  by  2030. 
My Government asks that the United Nations system be 
flexible and provide opportunities to review and adapt 
the configuration, role and development services of the 
many United Nations country teams so as to ensure the 
achievement  of  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals. 
With  reference  to  an  important  part  of  the  United 
Nations  reform  agenda  under  way,  I  would  like  to 
draw  attention  to  the  pillar  of  human  rights.  Without 
an  effective  and  resilient  United  Nations-led  human 
rights system within every State, it will be difficult to 
employ  preventive  diplomacy.  United  Nations  reform 
should consider the entire system by aligning peace and 
security  more  closely  with  the  pillars  of  development 
and human rights.
The  Pacific  region  is  committed  to  strengthening 
climate resilience as quickly as possible so as to build 
a strong region. That emerged from the Pacific Islands 
Forum leaders summit held in Nauru earlier this month. 
Nature continues to warn us of the imminent dangers to 
our planet as it approaches a point of no return beyond 
which our climate systems will no longer be able to cope. 
Summer heatwaves, huge forest fires, extreme drought 
and  the  increasing  frequency  and  scale  of  weather 
events have brought the debate on global warming to an 
indisputable level of importance. I sincerely hope that 
those warnings will provoke concerted climate action.
As  the  world’s  most  at-risk  country  in  terms  of 
exposure  to  natural  hazards,  according  to  the  World 
Risk Index of the United Nations University, for Vanuatu 
climate  change  continues  to  be  the  biggest  threat  to 
attaining  the  national  targets  of  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable Development, and it is currently our worst 
problem, putting the lives of tens of thousands at risk. If 
18-30104
21/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
the level of greenhouse-gas emissions continues to rise 
relentlessly, we will witness an escalation of the costs 
associated with the effects of climate change, costs that 
vulnerable  countries  such  as  Vanuatu  cannot  afford. 
That will cost us dearly in the future if the international 
community does not act now.
important step in our independence process, and we are 
determined to resolve those issues. We are committed 
to  and  are  encouraged  by  the  decision  of  the  Pacific 
leaders,  under  the  auspices  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum, to bring the negotiations forward with a view to 
finishing and reporting in 2019.
Mr.  Yelchenko  (Ukraine),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
The  Governments  of 
industrialized  countries 
have pledged $100 billion annually by 2020 to finance 
climate-change  mitigation  measures  in  vulnerable 
countries. But how to attain that goal remains unclear. 
We  call  for  prioritizing  those  commitments  and 
putting in place a specific road map for mobilizing and 
accumulating the promised funds as soon as possible, 
because  climate  change  is  upon  us.  We  also  call  for 
more flexible access to climate funding by simplifying 
validation  procedures,  so  that  vulnerable  countries 
can  take  action  and  repair  the  damage  caused  by 
climate change.
The  Pacific  region  cannot  afford  to  see  the  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change relegated to the archives 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  therefore  call  for  the  Paris 
Agreement’s  work  programme  to  be  completed  and 
made  operational  at  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change in Katowice, Poland. Climate change threatens 
the  sustainability  of  the  environment,  sustainable 
development  and  people’s  inalienable  rights,  both 
now  and  in  the  future.  It  represents  a  real  danger  to 
the  survival  of  future  generations  and  to  low-lying 
countries in the Pacific. The current pledges being made 
through nationally determined contributions are simply 
not  enough  to  reverse  climate  change.  The  parties  to 
the Paris Agreement must intensify their ambitions to 
reach the agreed target limit of no more than 1.5° C. For 
vulnerable countries, especially in our region, a failure 
to  do  so  would  mean  even  greater  exposure  to  more 
frequent natural disasters.
As the largest oceanic continent in the world, the 
Pacific islands region is a vital source of food and income 
for our population. It is therefore important to implement 
sustainable  policies  for  the  sound  management  and 
conservation of the oceans that can ensure a future for 
our peoples. We welcome opportunities to support our 
regional  efforts  to  protect  our  oceans.  Vanuatu,  like 
other  countries,  has  unresolved  issues regarding  the 
delimitation of its maritime boundaries, which is a very 
Vanuatu welcomes the mobilization of the Pacific 
Islands  Forum to  establish  a  new  implementation 
agreement  on  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use 
of  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction, 
which  represents  an  important  opportunity  for  the 
Pacific region.
Vanuatu maintains its position on denuclearization. 
Pacific  island  countries,  including  our  brothers  and 
sisters in the Federated States of Micronesia, continue 
to  be  exposed  to  ongoing  threats  from  radioactive 
contaminants,  including  remnants  from  the  Second 
World War and unexploded ordnance. We therefore call 
on Member States to join us in ratifying the Treaty on 
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
to  achieve 
Since  the  inception  of  the  United  Nations,  some 
750 million people from more than 80 former colonies 
have  gained  political  independence.  However,  the 
situation still remains desperate for millions of others 
aspiring 
self-determination.  Vanuatu 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of  the  Special 
Committee  on  Decolonization.  The  elimination  of  all 
forms of colonialism must remain a top priority on the 
United Nations agenda, in the spirit of the Charter of the 
United Nations. New Caledonia is on a path to deciding 
its political destiny through a referendum to be held on 
4 November. We appeal to the international community 
to support the right of the people of New Caledonia to 
fully participate in that referendum and, above all, to 
ensure that it takes place in a free and fair manner.
The international community is witnessing violence 
and human rights abuses against West Papua nationals. 
We urge the Human Rights Council to investigate those 
abuses. We also call on our leading counterparts around 
the  world  to  pay  more  attention  to  those  inhumane 
acts and, together with Indonesia, to stop all forms of 
violence and find common ground with nationalists so 
as to facilitate the establishment of a process that will 
allow them to freely express their choice.
According  to  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  we  all  have  an  obligation  to  work 
together  to  lift  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
embargoes  imposed  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  and 
22/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
lifting those bans will, among other things, allow the 
Cuban people to benefit and enjoy their human rights.
My Government’s top priority is to ensure national 
sustainable development for our population by 2030, and 
we aim to leave no one behind. Our national sustainable 
development goals are people-oriented, transformative 
and indivisible in order to strike a balance to the three 
dimensions of sustainable development. We recognize 
that the eradication of poverty in all its forms and aspects 
is an essential condition for sustainable development.
However, my Government cannot bear the immense 
responsibility of achieving sustainable development in 
our country alone, a responsibility that is all the more 
difficult given that we are exposed to increasingly fierce 
natural disasters. Most recently, my Government had to 
evacuate some 11,000 people from Ambae Island owing 
to  increased  volcanic  activity.  That  poses  a  financial 
challenge in the context of an already limited national 
budget.  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  express  my  sincere 
appreciation  to  the  development  partners  who  have 
assisted the Government and the people of Vanuatu in 
these difficult times and are helping to fund activities 
that improve the living conditions of our people.
My  Government  welcomes  the  opportunity  to 
present Vanuatu’s national voluntary review in 2019, and 
we count on the support and comments of delegations 
as we share our progress, shortcomings and challenges. 
In  implementing  Vanuatu’s  sustainable  development 
plan,  we  believe  it  is  essential  to  create  sincere  and 
sustainable  partnerships  across  all  sectors  and  with 
multiple  stakeholders.  Vanuatu  will  emerge  from 
its  status  as  a  least-developed  country  by  December 
2020. We hope to be able to count on our development 
partners  to  assist  us with  support  measures  that  will 
enable  us  to  attain  developed  country  status  with 
improved conditions.
I would like to conclude by reiterating that Vanuatu 
believes  and  trusts  in  multilateralism.  The  United 
Nations  has  made  this  world  a  better  place  compared 
to what it was 70 years ago. While much progress has 
been made since then, there is still much work ahead of 
us if we want to maintain the relevance of the United 
Nations.  International  problems  require  appropriate 
solutions. We need to find ways to act collectively and 
inclusively in order to solve those problems. We must 
continually strive to reform the Organization in order to 
make it more effective so that it meets our expectations 
today and in the years to come.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Vanuatu for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Charlot  Salwai  Tabimasmas,  Prime  Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Allen Michael Chastanet, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, 
Economic Growth, Job Creation, External 
Affairs and the Public Service of Saint Lucia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for Finance, Economic Growth, Job Creation, External 
Affairs and the Public Service of Saint Lucia.
Mr.  Allen  Michael  Chastanet,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Finance,  Economic  Growth,  Job 
Creation, External Affairs and the Public Service 
of Saint Lucia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Allen  Michael 
Chastanet,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance, 
Economic Growth, Job Creation, External Affairs and 
the Public Service of Saint Lucia, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Chastanet  (Saint  Lucia):  Allow  me  to  begin 
by congratulating the President on her election to the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session. Her assumption of that important office 
contributes  to  our  progress  in  breaking  down  the 
barriers  of  inequality,  considering  that  she  is  one  of 
only four women to have held that position in 73 years.
The  President  is  the  first  woman  from  the  Latin 
America  and  Caribbean  region  to  have  been  elected 
to  that  post,  and  we  are  especially  proud  of  her 
achievement.  Saint  Lucia  is  a  staunch  advocate  for 
gender equality, as evidenced by the large percentage of 
Saint Lucian women who hold senior positions in and out 
of Government, including the four female ministers in 
my Cabinet. The President can rest assured that she has 
my delegation’s full support at the upcoming session.
I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today  as  a  leader  of 
a  small  island  developing  State  (SIDS)  that  is  also  a 
middle-income  country.  Saint  Lucia’s  engagement  in 
the  international  system  is  framed  by  acronyms  that 
represent  designations  and  categorizations  that  have 
been  globally  accepted.  For  example,  it  has  become 
18-30104
23/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
accepted  that  SIDS  are  more  vulnerable  to  natural 
hazards than other countries. The fact that the resulting 
damage  from  natural  disasters  has  a  greater  overall 
impact  on  our  economies  by  virtue  of  our  small  size 
has also become widely accepted. The fact that SIDS 
that  are  also  middle-income  countries  face  additional 
challenges  because  of  the  assumptions  regarding  the 
capabilities of countries carrying that designation has 
also been acknowledged.
We  all  know  those  truths.  They  are,  in  fact,  self-
evident. This Hall has echoed with the words of SIDS 
and  middle-income  country  leaders,  who  make  plain 
and  clear,  year  after  year,  the  challenges  that  we 
face.  Yet  global  policies,  programmes  and  strategies 
remain  unfairly  unaccommodating  to  those  very  real 
and  true  challenges.  The  world  acknowledges  our 
acronyms,  but  little  or  nothing  else  changes.  Saint 
Lucia  remains  economically  vulnerable  to  de-risking 
and  the  loss  of  correspondent  banking  relations. 
We  remain  excluded  from  access  to  concessionary 
financing.  Our  reputations  are  unfairly  tarnished  by 
tax-related  labels.  We  continue  to  struggle  under  the 
weight of international frameworks that do not provide 
an  enabling  environment  for  my  country  to  chart  an 
effective  sustainable  development  path  or  even  to  be 
able to take control of our own destiny.
Despite  the  fact  that  the  odds  remain  stacked 
against us, Saint Lucia must survive and persist. I have 
an  obligation  to  the  people  of  my  country,  and  so  I 
must find new and innovative ways, regardless of the 
difficulties, to keep our economy growing and to ensure 
and  enhance  environmental  and  social  protections.  I 
do not have the luxury of waiting for the international 
system to adjust to the special needs of countries like 
my  own,  while  natural  disasters  continue  to  threaten 
and erode the gains that we have made. In preparation 
for the coming hurricane season, Saint Lucia has had 
to spend three times the amount of money that we did 
last season. In order to meet those costs, we have had to 
impose new taxes to facilitate our preparedness.
For  example,  we  have  introduced  a  water  tax 
to  assist  with  the  de-silting  of  our  dam,  a  gas  tax  to 
assist  with  road  rehabilitation  and  slope  stabilization, 
and an airport tax to assist with the development of a 
new terminal, as well as highway and flood mitigation 
measures  around  the  airport.  Saint  Lucia  is  moving 
forward  with  an  aggressive  agenda  to  reform  our 
institutions  and  build  a  more  resilient  country.  We 
are  making  difficult  decisions  and  are  committed  to 
increasing the productivity of our Government through 
the use of e-Government tools. I want to acknowledge 
and thank Estonia for its assistance in that area.
We are building resilience with the support of the 
United Arab Emirates, which has given us assistance in 
the form of engineers, and with loans from Taiwan to 
enable us to rebuild our roads and our airport. I want 
to thank my citizens, in particular, for their continued 
support and understanding. We will play our part in the 
adaptation  of  our  economy,  and  we  will  adapt  to  the 
new normal.
The President of the World Bank has acknowledged 
that “good health is the foundation of a country’s human 
capital, and no country can afford low-quality or unsafe 
health care”. The challenge of providing adequate and 
affordable health care is another area of focus for Saint 
Lucia.  We  understand  that  preventive  and  affordable 
health  care  is  critical  to  the  social  development  of 
any  nation,  and  more  so  for  a  small  State  with  a 
small  population.  We  are  plagued  with  cases  where 
individuals  delay  in  seeking  early  medical  assistance 
owing to the high cost, only to be saddled with a serious 
diagnosis  later,  thereby  increasing  the  cost  burden  to 
the State and the individual.
We have therefore taken steps to address the issue 
from  multiple  angles.  We  are  working  with  partners 
such as the European Union and the World Bank with 
the  goal  of  implementing  the  necessary  policies  and 
legislation  to  give  life  to  a  national  health-insurance 
scheme. We are also looking into preventive approaches, 
such  as  the  imposition  of  appropriate  labelling  and  a 
sugar  tax,  as  we  grapple  with  the  high  prevalence  of 
non-communicable  diseases.  We  are  also  expanding 
our after-school programmes, which focus on building 
healthy  lifestyles  through  physical  activity  and  diet. 
We  are  establishing  sports  academies  complete  with 
nutritionists who will be community-based so that their 
expertise can be shared.
Saint Lucia has worked hard to grow and develop 
within  the  context  of  an  international  system  that 
acknowledges our existence and needs only theoretically, 
while any practical and tangible manifestation of those 
acknowledgements is rarely seen or felt.
We  have  seen  the  disastrous  impact  of  natural 
disasters brought on by the changes in our climate. As 
I  speak,  my  country  is  suffering  from  the  ravages  of 
Tropical Storm Kirk, which was on a projected course 
north of my island but changed direction overnight and 
24/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
moved directly over Saint Lucia. This morning, Saint 
Lucia also suffered an earthquake. Early reports indicate 
damage to our utilities that remain above ground and 
extensive damage to the agricultural sector. Once again, 
my heart goes out to our hard-working men and women 
and  the  communities  that  depend  on  agriculture.  But 
they may rest assured that regardless of the difficulties, 
we  will  provide  the  necessary  support  to  help  our 
people recover as quickly as possible. My thoughts and 
prayers  are  also  with  the  Government  and  the  people 
of  Barbados,  who  have  also  been  affected,  as  well  as 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  which  now  lies  in 
the path of the storm, and Martinique, which suffered 
an earthquake this morning.
Our  resilience  as  a  people  and  our  ability  to  pick 
ourselves up should not be used to punish us. I applaud 
Japan, India and the numerous states within the United 
States  of  America  that  have  the  capacity  to  respond 
effectively to natural disasters. I envy the fact that they 
have  the  fiscal  and  policy  space  they  need  to  enable 
them  to  effectively  recover  and  rebuild,  while  we,  as 
SIDS, are continually denied that ability.
We  are  aware  that  Dominica,  the  British  Virgin 
Islands  and  Puerto  Rico,  among  others,  are  still 
recovering  from  the  storms  one  year  later.  Yet  little 
has  changed.  The  Caribbean  Community-United 
Nations  High-Level  Pledging  Conference  to  support 
reconstruction  efforts 
following 
Hurricanes  Irma  and  Maria  received  pledges  of  more 
than  $1.3  billion,  but  there  remains  a  significant  gap 
between the pledges made and the actual amounts that 
have  been  disbursed.  While  those  pledges  were  well 
intended, we have been let down once again.
region 
the 
in 
indebted  middle-income-country 
My delegation welcomes the initiative to convene a 
high-level meeting on the challenges of middle-income 
countries  during  this  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General Assembly. Saint Lucia has continued to place 
our  concerns  about  debt  sustainability  on  the  global 
agenda.  We  have  joined  the  call  for  the  creation  of  a 
highly 
initiative 
based not only on the urgent need for debt relief, but also 
on the need to acknowledge and highlight the negative 
implications  of  the  challenges  that  middle-income 
countries 
concessionary 
financing  —  so  vital  to  building  resilience  in  our 
countries.  We  fear  a  business-as-usual  approach  to 
such a meeting, but remain hopeful that it will provide 
substantive outcomes with actionable solutions.
accessing 
face 
in 
Multilateralism is under threat. We have heard the 
cries from leaders this week. The winds of nationalism 
that  threaten  to  blow  us  away  from  our  collective 
endeavours  here  at  the  United  Nations  are  gathering 
strength.  But  Saint  Lucia  believes  that  it  is  only 
within a strong, functional multilateral system that the 
guarantees of world peace and security can be provided. 
To  paraphrase  what  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres has said, in a world in which all problems are 
global, there is no way countries can handle issues by 
themselves. We need global responses.
The ongoing reform of the United Nations system 
is  critical.  The  increasingly  chaotic  world  requires 
an  organization  that  is  responsive  and  effective  and 
that  reflects  the  political  and  economic  reality  of  a 
changing world and of all its Member States. We can 
no  longer  operate  within  a  framework  of  ideologies, 
policies,  institutions  and  patterns  of  behaviour  that 
were  established  at  a  time  long  past  to  deal  with 
circumstances long gone.
We  must  be  willing  to  challenge  discrimination 
and  exclusion  if  we  hope  to  create  an  equal  and  just 
world for all. Every country has a role to play in this 
global  environment.  We  know  that.  Saint  Lucia  joins 
the  other  voices  calling  for  an  end  to  the  more  than 
half-a-century-old embargo imposed on our neighbour 
Cuba, and to all restrictions on the rights of the Cuban 
people,  particularly  regarding  liberty,  security  and 
advancement.  Similarly,  we  call  for  an  end  to  the 
restrictions  on  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  Taiwan 
to  participate  as  an  observer  in  key  international 
institutions,  such  as  the  World  Health  Organization, 
the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  (UNFCCC).  We  demand  that  as  much  for  us 
as for them.
In  our  hemisphere,  where  confrontations  and 
disagreements  exist,  I  reaffirm  Saint  Lucia’s  position 
that all conflicts must be resolved through diplomatic 
channels.  As  we  work  to  reform  this  institution,  we 
must  ensure  that  no  one  is  left  behind.  We  must  find 
the political will and courage to ensure that the United 
Nations,  as  currently  evolved,  not  only  acknowledges 
the challenges of its membership but provides adequate 
solutions for all.
Notwithstanding 
that 
frame  our  engagement  in  the  international  system, 
Saint  Lucia  remains  committed  to  the  objectives  of 
the  myriad  challenges 
18-30104
25/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
multilateralism. The adoption of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development was a triumph of multilateral 
cooperation, but it is the successful implementation of 
the Agenda, the fulfilment of the promise of its purpose, 
that will define the true measure of our collective will 
to transform and develop as a global community.
It  is  within  that  context  that  Saint  Lucia  has 
committed to presenting its voluntary national review 
of  our  progress  in  implementing  the  2030  Agenda  at 
the  2019  high-level  political  forum  on  sustainable 
development. I am also pleased to report that Saint Lucia 
will deposit the required instrument to ratify the Doha 
Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol before the start of the 
twenty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the UNFCCC. This week, Saint Lucia also reaffirmed 
its  commitment  to  international  law  by  signing  the 
Regional Agreement on Access to Information, Public 
Participation and Justice in Environmental Matters in 
Latin America and the Caribbean and the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
In  order 
to  build  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable  societies,  SIDS,  particularly  those  that 
are middle-income countries, must look to a different 
course of action in order to arrive at a more immediate 
solution  to  our  development  challenges,  while  we 
continue to call for changes in the international system. 
Saint  Lucia  has  recorded  two  successive  years  of 
consistent  economic  growth.  We  have  increased  our 
tax revenue and are on course to attract record foreign 
direct  investment.  We  are  still  competing,  having  to 
find new ways to ensure our growth and development, 
but imagine how much better we could do in building 
economic and social resilience to further enhance our 
ability to meet our sustainable development goals and 
improve the quality of life of our citizens if a fair and 
just  international  enabling  environment  were  made 
available to us.
Let  us  not  forget  that  we  come  together  here  as 
nations  united  to  build  institutions,  norms  and  rules 
that advance the shared interests of all, not only those 
of a select few. The enormous challenges of our moment 
in history require a renewed social contract, based on 
shared  responsibility,  and  the  space  to  achieve  that 
global compact is right here at the United Nations. Let 
us draw on the inspiration of Nelson Mandela and his 
incredible ability to forgive and find solutions for the 
greater human good.
There  is  a  Buddhist  proverb  that  says,  “To  know 
and not to do is not yet to know”. If the international 
community  claims  to  know  and  accept  the  special 
circumstances  and  vulnerabilities  of  the  SIDS,  and 
does  nothing  to  remedy  the  systems  and  frameworks 
that exacerbate our vulnerability, can the international 
community  say  that  it  really  knows?  Have  we  truly 
accepted  the  evidence?  While  the  answers  to  those 
questions  may  not  be  readily  available,  countries  like 
my  own  have  to  chart  a  development  path  through 
this changing and volatile world. It is my hope that as 
multilateralism evolves, and with it this institution, we 
will arrive at knowing and at doing what must be done.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Finance, Economic Growth, Job Creation, 
External Affairs and the Public Service of Saint Lucia 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Allen  Michael  Chastanet,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Finance,  Economic  Growth,  Job 
Creation, External Affairs and the Public Service 
of Saint Lucia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mahathir bin Mohamad, Prime 
Minister of Malaysia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
Mr.  Mahathir  bin  Mohamad,  Prime  Minister  of 
Malaysia, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Mahathir bin Mohamad, 
Prime Minister of Malaysia, and inviting him to address 
the Assembly.
Mr.  Mohamad  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  join 
others  in  congratulating  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  am  confident 
that with her wisdom and vast experience, this session 
will  achieve  the  objectives  of  its  theme.  I  assure  her 
of  Malaysia’s  full  support  and  cooperation  towards 
achieving those noble goals.
Allow  me  to  also  pay  tribute  to  her  predecessor, 
Miroslav Lajčák, for his dedication and stewardship in 
successfully completing the work of the seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly. I also commend the 
Secretary-General  and  the  United  Nations  staff  for 
their  tireless  efforts  in  steering  and  managing  the 
Organization’s activities globally.
26/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
I  particularly  want  to  pay  tribute  to  the  late  Kofi 
Annan,  who  served  as  the  Organization’s  seventh 
Secretary-General from 1997 to 2006 and, sadly, passed 
away in August. Malaysia enjoyed a positive and active 
engagement with the United Nations during his tenure.
The  theme  of  this  seventy-third  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  “Making 
the  United  Nations 
relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies”, remains true to the aspirations of our founding 
fathers. The theme is most relevant and timely and is 
especially pertinent in the context of the new Malaysia. 
The new Government of Malaysia, recently empowered 
with a strong mandate from its people, is committed to 
ensuring that every Malaysian has an equitable share in 
the prosperity and wealth of the nation.
A  new  Malaysia  emerged  after  the  fourteenth 
general election, in May this year, in which Malaysians 
decided  to  change  their  Government,  which  had  been 
in power for 61 years, that is, since independence. We 
did that because the previous Administration indulged 
in  a  politics  of  hatred,  racial  and  religious  bigotry 
and  widespread  corruption.  The  process  of  change 
was achieved democratically, without violence or loss 
of life.
Malaysians want a new Malaysia that upholds the 
principles of fairness, good governance, integrity and 
the rule of law. They want a Malaysia that is a friend 
to all and an enemy to none, a Malaysia that remains 
neutral  and  non-aligned,  a  Malaysia  that  detests  and 
abhors  war  and  violence.  They  also  want  a  Malaysia 
that  will  speak  its  mind  on  what  is  right  and  wrong, 
without fear or favour; a new Malaysia that believes in 
cooperation based on mutual respect and mutual gain; 
a new Malaysia that offers a partnership based on our 
“prosper-thy-neighbour”  philosophy.  We  believe  in 
the  goodness  of  cooperation  and  that  prosperous  and 
stable  neighbours  contribute  to  our  own  prosperity 
and stability.
engagements.  Those 
include 
The  new  Malaysia  will  firmly  espouse 
the 
principles  promoted  by  the  United  Nations  in  our 
international 
the 
principles  of  truth,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law, 
justice,  fairness,  responsibility  and  accountability,  as 
well as sustainability. It is within that context that the 
new Government of Malaysia has pledged to ratify all 
remaining  core  United  Nations  instruments  related  to 
the protection of human rights. It will not be easy for us 
to do because Malaysia is multi-ethnic, multireligious, 
multicultural  and  multilingual.  We  will  provide  the 
space and time for all to deliberate and to decide freely 
based on the principles of democracy.
When I last spoke here, in 2003 (see A/58/PV.11), I 
lamented how the world had lost its way. I bemoaned the 
fact that small countries continued to be at the mercy of 
the powerful. I argued for the need for the developing 
world  to  push  for  reform,  enhance  capacity-building 
and  diversify  the  economy.  We  needed  to  maintain 
control of our destiny.
Today, 15 years later, the world has not changed very 
much.  If  anything,  the  world  is  far  worse.  Today,  the 
world is in a state of turmoil economically, socially and 
politically. There is a trade war between the two most 
powerful nations, and the rest of the world is feeling the 
pain. Socially, new values are acting to undermine the 
stability of nations and their people. Freedom has led 
to the negation of the concept of marriage and families, 
moral codes and respect for one another.
But the worst turmoil is in the political arena. We 
see acts of terror everywhere. People are tying bombs 
to their bodies and blowing themselves up in crowded 
places. Trucks are driven into holiday crowds. Wars are 
fought,  and  people  beheaded  with  short  knives.  Acts 
of brutality are broadcast live to the world. Masses of 
people  risk  their  lives  to  migrate,  only  to  be  denied 
asylum  while  being  forced  to  sleep  in  the  open  and 
freeze to death. Thousands starve, and tens of thousands 
die  in  cholera  epidemics.  No  one,  no  country  is  safe. 
Security checks inconvenience travellers. There can be 
no  liquids  on  planes.  The  slightest  suspicion  leads  to 
detention and unpleasant questioning.
In order to fight the terrorists, all kinds of security 
measures,  gadgets  and  equipment  are  deployed.  Big 
brother is watching, but acts of terror continue. Malaysia 
fought the bandits and terrorists for independence and 
defeated  them.  We  used  the  military,  to  be  sure,  but 
alongside it — and more importantly — we campaigned 
to win the hearts and minds of the people. The present 
war  against  the  terrorists  will  not  end  until  the  root 
causes  are  found  and  removed  and  hearts  and  minds 
are won.
What  are  the  root  causes?  In  1948,  Palestinian 
land  was  seized  to  form  the  State  of  Israel.  The 
Palestinians were massacred and forced to leave their 
land.  Their  homes  and  farms  were  seized.  They  tried 
to fight a conventional war with help from sympathetic 
18-30104
27/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
neighbours; the friends of Israel ensured that that attempt 
failed.  More  Palestinian  land  was  seized,  and  Israeli 
settlements  were  built  on  more  and  more  Palestinian 
land.  The  Palestinians  themselves  are  denied  access 
to the settlements built on their land. The Palestinians 
initially tried to fight with catapults and stones. They 
were fired on with live bullets and arrested. Thousands 
are incarcerated. Frustrated and angry, unable to fight 
a conventional war, the Palestinians resort to what we 
call terrorism.
The world does not care, even when Israel breaks 
international  laws,  seizing  ships  carrying  medicine, 
food and building materials in international waters. The 
Palestinians fired ineffective rockets that hurt no one. 
Massive retaliations were mounted by Israel, rocketing 
and bombing hospitals, schools and other buildings and 
killing  innocent  civilians,  including  schoolchildren 
and  hospital  patients,  among  others.  The  world  has 
rewarded  Israel,  deliberately  provoking  Palestine  by 
recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
It is the anger and frustration of the Palestinians and 
their sympathizers that cause them to resort to what we 
call terrorism, but it is important to acknowledge that 
any act that terrifies people also constitutes terrorism. 
States dropping bombs or launching rockets that maim 
and kill innocent people also terrify people — they are 
also acts of terrorism.
Malaysia hates terrorism. We will fight it, but we 
believe that the only way to fight terrorism is to remove 
the cause. Let the Palestinians return to reclaim their 
land.  Let  there  be  a  State  of  Palestine.  Let  there  be 
justice and the rule of law. Warring against them will not 
stop terrorism, nor will out-terrorizing them succeed.
We  need  to  remind  ourselves  that  the  United 
Nations,  like  the  League  of  Nations  before  it,  was 
conceived for the noble purpose of ending wars between 
nations. Wars are about killing people. Modern wars are 
about mass killings and total destruction countrywide. 
Civilized nations claim that they abhor killing for any 
reason.  When  a  man  kills,  he  commits  the  crime  of 
murder, and the punishment for that may be death.
But wars, as we all know, encourage and legitimize 
killing. Indeed, such killings are regarded as noble, and 
the killers are hailed as heroes. They have medals pinned 
to their chests and statues erected in their honour, with 
their  names  mentioned  in  the  history  books.  There  is 
something  wrong  with  our  way  of  thinking  and  with 
our value system. Kill one man and it is murder; kill a 
million and they become a hero.
However,  we  persist  in  believing  that  conflict 
between nations can be resolved with war, and because 
we do so, we must prepare for war. The old adage says, 
“if  you  want  peace,  prepare  for  war”.  We  are  forever 
preparing for war, inventing more and more destructive 
weapons. We now have nuclear bombs that are capable 
of destroying whole cities, but we also now know that 
the radiation emanating from the explosion will affect 
even  the  country  that  uses  the  bomb.  A  nuclear  war 
would destroy the world.
That  fear  has  caused  the  countries  of  Europe  and 
North  America  to  maintain  peace  for  over  70  years. 
However, that is not the case for other countries. Wars 
in  the  other  countries  can  help  test  the  new  weapons 
being invented, and so the arms exporters sell them to 
warring  countries.  We  see  their  arms  in  wars  fought 
between smaller nations. Those are not world wars, but 
they are no less destructive. Hundreds of thousands of 
people have been killed, whole countries devastated, and 
nations bankrupted because of fantastic new weapons.
Such  wars  give  handsome  dividends  to  the  arms 
manufacturers  and  traders.  The  arms  business  is 
now  the  largest  business  in  the  world.  They  profit 
shamelessly from the deaths and destruction that they 
cause.  Indeed,  so-called  peace-loving  countries  often 
promote that shameful business. Today’s weapons cost 
millions. Fighter jets cost about $100 million each, and 
maintaining them can cost tens of millions. Yet poorer 
countries  are  persuaded  to  buy  them,  even  if  they 
cannot afford them. They are told that their neighbours 
or their enemies have them. It is therefore imperative 
that they, too, have such weapons. While their people 
starve and suffer from all kinds of deprivation, a huge 
percentage of the budget of many countries is allocated 
to  the  purchase  of  modern  arms.  The  fact  that  their 
buyers may never have to use them does not bother the 
purveyors at all.
In Myanmar, Muslims in Rakhine state are being 
murdered and their homes torched. Millions of refugees 
have been forced to flee, to drown in the high seas or 
live in makeshift huts without water or food and with 
the  most  primitive  sanitation.  Yet  the  authorities  of 
Myanmar, including a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, deny 
that that is happening. I believe in non-interference in 
the internal affairs of nations, but is the world supposed 
to watch massacres being carried out and do nothing? 
28/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
Nations  are  independent,  but  does  that  independence 
mean they have a right to massacre their own people?
On the other hand, in terms of trade, nations are no 
longer independent. Free trade means that there is no 
protection for the infant industries in small countries. 
They  must  abandon  tariff  restrictions  and  open  their 
countries  to  invasion  by  the  products  of  the  rich  and 
powerful.  Yet  the  simple  products  of  the  poor  are 
subjected to clever barriers so that they cannot penetrate 
the market of the rich. Malaysian palm oil is labelled as 
harmful  to  health,  and  it  is  claimed  that  the  palm  oil 
estates  are  destroying  animal  habitats.  Food  products 
of  the  rich  are  declared  to  be  free  of  palm  oil.  Now 
palm diesel is also condemned because the producers 
decimate  virgin  jungles.  The  caring  people  making 
those claims forget that their boycott deprives hundreds 
of thousands of people of jobs and a decent life. We in 
Malaysia care for the environment. Some 48 per cent of 
our country remains virgin jungle. Can our detractors 
claim the same about their own countries?
Malaysia is committed to sustainable development. 
We  have  taken  steps,  for  example  by  improving 
production  methods,  in  order  to  ensure  that  our  palm 
oil  production  is  sustainable.  By  December  2019,  the 
Malaysian Sustainable Palm Oil standard will become 
mandatory. That will ensure that every drop of palm oil 
produced  in  Malaysia  will  be  certified  as  sustainable 
by 2020.
All  around  the  world,  we  observe  a  dangerous 
trend  towards  inward-looking  nationalism.  We  see 
Governments  pandering  to  populism,  retreating  from 
international  collaboration  and  closing  their  borders 
to  the  free  movement  of  people,  goods  and  services, 
even as they talk of a borderless world and free trade. 
While  globalization  has  indeed  brought  us  some 
benefits,  the  effects  have  been  proven  to  threaten  the 
independence of small nations. We cannot even talk or 
move around without having our voices and movements 
recorded and often used against us. Data on everyone 
is being captured and traded by powerful nations and 
their corporations.
Malaysia 
lauds 
for 
the  United  Nations 
its 
endeavours to end poverty and protect our planet and 
for  its  efforts  to  try  to  ensure  that  everyone  enjoys 
peace and prosperity. However, I would like to mention 
the need for reform in the Organization. Five countries, 
on the basis of their victories in wars fought more than 
70  years  ago,  must  not  be  allowed  to  claim  to  have  a 
right to hold the world to ransom forever. They cannot 
take the moral high ground, preaching democracy and 
regime change in the countries of the world while they 
deny democracy in this Organization.
I  have  suggested  that  the  vetoing  of  a  draft 
resolution in the Security Council should require that 
at  least  two  permanent  members,  supported  by  three 
non-permanent members of the Council, vote against it. 
The General Assembly should then uphold the decision 
with a simple majority. I will not say any more.
I  must  admit  that  the  world  without  the  United 
Nations  would  be  disastrous.  We  need  the  United 
Nations, and we need to sustain it with sufficient funds. 
No one should threaten it with financial deprivation.
After  15  years’  absence  and  at  93  years  old,  I 
now  return  to  this  rostrum  with  the  burdensome  task 
of  bringing  the  voice  and  hopes  of  the  new  Malaysia 
to  the  world  stage.  The  people  of  Malaysia,  proud  of 
their recent democratic achievement, have high hopes 
that around the world we will see peace, progress and 
prosperity. For that, we look to the United Nations to 
hear our plea.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Malaysia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahathir  bin  Mohamad,  Prime  Minister  of 
Malaysia, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Antoni Martí Petit, Head of 
Government of the Principality of Andorra
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  Government  of  the 
Principality of Andorra.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government 
of  the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit, 
Head  of  Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr.  Martí  Petit  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 
English text provided by the delegation): For the people 
of Andorra, 2018 is a year of double celebration, globally 
and  locally  speaking.  On  28  July,  the  Principality  of 
Andorra  celebrated  25  years  since  its  entry  into  the 
United  Nations,  and  on  10  December,  it  will  be  70 
18-30104
29/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
years  since  the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of Human Rights.
As  I  have  already  mentioned,  those  two  events 
have  both  a  global  and  a  local  significance  —  what 
some people call “glocal”. In fact, the 1948 Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights has a global dimension for 
Andorra, as well as for the other countries that make up 
the international community. But it also has strong local 
roots, because fundamental rights have been respected 
in  Andorra  since  time  immemorial.  It  is  therefore  no 
wonder that the Andorran Constitution expressly states 
that  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  is  in 
force in Andorra.
That is why our country wanted to play an active 
part  in  the  Stand  Up  for  Human  Rights  campaign, 
emphasizing  the  importance  of  the  dissemination 
of  human  rights  in  the  area  of  education.  The  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights, 
Michelle  Bachelet,  with  whom  I  have  had  the  honour 
of working in the Ibero-American community in recent 
years, knows that she can count on Andorra to ensure 
that the Declaration made on 10 December 1948 remains 
as valid and as strong as ever. As I have already said, 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was already 
part  of  Andorran  positive  law  even  before  Andorra 
became a Member of the United Nations.
I  would  now  like  us  to  reflect  on  what  the  world 
was  like  25  years  ago,  when  Andorra  joined  the 
Organization  as  a  full  Member.  The  year  1993  was  a 
time of hope for everyone. The fall of the Iron Curtain 
and  the  end  of  the  Cold  War  gave  way  to  a  wave  of 
unprecedented  democratization.  Never  had  so  many 
people  in  the  world  lived  under  democracy  as  during 
the final years of the twentieth and the early years of the 
twenty-first century. Human rights were strengthened, 
economies  grew  and 
inequalities  were  gradually 
diminishing.  They  were  years  of  peace,  cooperation 
and multilateralism, as well as respect, understanding 
and dialogue among cultures and religions. Around us, 
on  the  old  continent,  they  were  years  of  optimism  in 
the long and fruitful process of European construction.
Today, we all remember that period with a certain 
degree  of  nostalgia.  We  were  reminded  of  that  this 
summer  during  the  meaningful  homages  paid  to  the 
former  Secretary-General  the  late  Kofi  Annan,  who 
did so much for peace and multilateralism throughout 
the  end  of  the  past  century  and  the  beginning  of  this 
millennium. We saw it again just this week during the 
Peace Summit dedicated to Nelson Mandela (see A/73/
PV.4 et seq.), who was, without a doubt, one of the key 
figures of that historic moment.
Twenty-five  years  on,  many  of  the  hopes  of 
1993  have  become  blurred  and,  despite  some  of 
the  milestones  reached,  we  have  slipped  back.  The 
prestigious  non-governmental  organization  Freedom 
House has noted, year after year, a constant decline in 
world democracy since 2006. In its most recent report, 
we read that in 2017, only 4 of every 10 people live in 
free countries. That slow decline in democratic regimes 
has  been  accompanied  by  an  increase  in  inequality, 
intolerance and extremism. Even in the most established 
democracies, we increasingly hear the voices of people 
who have suffered discrimination in silence for many 
years — women, persons with disabilities and victims 
of sexual abuse or abuse of any kind. All of that shows 
us that our optimism 25 years ago was rather naive.
However,  despite  all  the  disappointments  and  all 
the faults, we must still defend the international order 
that  was  created  by  the  United  Nations  just  after  the 
end  of  the  Second  World  War.  We  must  defend  that 
order  because  it  is  based  on  three  principles  that  are 
as elemental as they are universal. All of us have the 
same rights; what affects all of us must be decided by 
all  of  us;  and  any  conflict  must  be  solved  peacefully 
and  lawfully.  When  I  say  “all  of  us”,  I  am  referring 
to  everybody,  individually,  within  a  representative 
democracy  and  to  all  countries,  on  an  equal  footing, 
here at the General Assembly.
Representative  democracy  and  multilateralism 
share  a  set  of  common  values  and  it  is  therefore  not 
surprising that they should end up in crisis at the same 
time.  In  my  view,  the  democratic  multilateral  order 
is  threatened  by  the  two  extremes  of  populism  and 
technocracy. In the face of complex problems, populism 
proposes  solutions  that  are  simple  but  that  are  not 
solutions, because they end up creating new problems 
and  calling  into  question  democratic  principles  and 
values.  In  the  face  of  complex  problems,  technocracy 
proposes  solutions  that  are  as  complex  as  they  are 
elitist  and  that  rather  than  being  inclusive,  generate 
inequality  and  bypass  many  people.  Populism  is  fed 
by the disappointment of people who have been left to 
one  side  and  have  suffered  from  exclusion,  a  lack  of 
understanding and inequality.
In  recent  years,  we  have  heard  time  and  time 
again  that  the  world  is  struggling  between  opening 
30/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
up  and  closing  down,  between  multilateralism  and 
unilateralism, between cooperation and protectionism. 
But  perhaps  the  mistake  lies  in  wishing  to  present 
things  in  that  way.  All  too  often,  defenders  of  the 
multilateral  order  and  globalization  believe  that  we 
have made no errors and that it is other people who are 
mistaken, without seeing that globalization has created 
antibodies,  some  harmful  and  some  not  —  because 
perhaps not every kind of globalization is good.
In  the  face  of  that  dialectic  between  opening  up 
and  closing  down,  we  should  not  seek  confrontation 
but  look  for  balance.  There  should  be  a  balance 
between  cosmopolitanism  and  being  deeply  rooted  in 
tradition, because there are advantages to both. All too 
often  we  have  focused  on  the  risks  of  protectionism, 
populism  and  closing  down,  without  realizing  that 
there is also another risk — that of elitist and inhumane 
globalization,  which  is  not  very  inclusive,  if  at  all. 
Very  often  the  solutions  that  we  have  found  to  major 
international issues — whether geopolitical, economic 
or  social  —  are  solutions  that  do  not  consider  people 
and  that  go  against  one  of  the  themes  of  the  United 
Nations, the call to leave no one behind.
I therefore view very positively the theme chosen 
by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Ms.  María 
Fernanda Espinosa Garcés — with whom we also share 
the  Ibero-American  community  —  of  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people”. And that means 
building peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies.
The action of the United Nations, and by extension 
of the entire international community, must be inclusive 
and  focused  on  the  real  problems  of  people.  If  we  do 
not do that, we would be persevering in our mistakes; 
we  would  be  reinforcing  an  image  of  international 
institutions  that  are  difficult  to  understand  and  far 
removed from the concerns of the people, and we would 
be  opening  the  door  to  populism  even  wider.  That  is 
why  Andorra  wants  to  participate  in  a  particularly 
active way in promoting and achieving the Sustainable 
Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development.  The  Goals  are  focused  on  the  specific, 
tangible needs of the world population. They are major 
global objectives that have local applications and impact, 
and if they are attained, they will reinforce the bonds 
that are so necessary between people and institutions.
Andorra presented its first voluntary national review 
on  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  at  the  high-
level political forum on sustainable development of the 
Economic and Social Council last July. As explained in 
the review, our Government has been working for some 
time on classifying various of its political endeavours 
according to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of 
the  2030  Agenda.  We  have  also  launched  a  campaign 
to involve the education community, civil society and 
private  companies  in  promoting  and  achieving  the 
various Goals. That is a way of opening up and bringing 
the United Nations and its agenda closer to the people.
In our opinion, innovation and the new technologies 
play a very important role in achieving the Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  That  is  why  we  need  a  cross-
cutting  alliance  between  the  public  and  the  private 
sectors so that we can put technological progress in the 
service of the 2030 Agenda.
to 
linked 
We  have  assessed  our  performance  on  six 
Sustainable  Development  Goals 
the 
environment.  They  are  water  and  sanitation;  clean, 
accessible  energy;  sustainable  cities; 
responsible 
consumption and production; the protection of life on 
Earth  and  the  fight  against  climate  change.  Various 
actions introduced by my Government in recent years 
are aimed at those goals — the ongoing improvement 
of  water  and  air  quality;  a  comprehensive  plan  of 
energy  transition  that  has  enabled  us  to  reduce  our 
dependence  on  outside  energy  sources  by  promoting 
renewable energy; direct grants for renewing buildings 
using energy-efficient criteria and so on. All of those 
actions  are  designed  to  enable  us  to  comply  with  the 
2030 Agenda.
Andorra  has  also  emphasized  two  more  goals, 
measures  to  combat  climate  change  and  high-quality 
education,  because  they  are  two  things  with  which 
Andorran society fully identifies. We therefore champion 
the validity of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, 
which many countries signed here in New York in April 
2016,  and  we  insist  that  the  international  community 
must  comply  with  the  agreements  and  commitments 
made  in  Paris  in  December  2015.  We  reiterated  that 
view in Paris last December at the One Planet Summit, 
promoted  by  the  Secretary-General  and  the  President 
of  the  French  Republic  and  Co-Prince  of  Andorra, 
Mr.  Emmanuel  Macron.  Andorra  is  working  to  fulfil 
the commitments of the Paris Agreement and strongly 
encourages the rest of the international community to 
do the same.
As far as quality education is concerned, Andorra is 
proud of having a rich, diverse, all-embracing education 
18-30104
31/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
system that is available to all citizens. It is a system in 
which families can opt for Andorran, Spanish or French 
education at no additional cost. It prepares our young 
people  to  become  citizens  of  a  global  world  while 
remaining  deeply  rooted  in  their  own  identity.  That 
is  perhaps  why  a  great  many  Andorran  international 
cooperation  efforts  focus  on  the  area  of  education. 
With the financial support of the Government, several 
Andorran non-governmental organizations are carrying 
out    projects  to  promote  training  and  opportunities 
for  street  children  in  Bolivia,  educate  young  girls  in 
Honduras  and  provide  schooling  for  poor  children 
in Madagascar.
In  choosing  the  theme  for  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  —  “Global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies” — our President has spoken about leadership 
and shared responsibilities. That seems to me to be a key 
matter. If we allow the action of the United Nations, and 
by extension that of the entire international community, 
to  move  away  from  people’s  real  needs,  we  would  be 
losing leadership.
leaders  often  feel 
In  the  face  of  the  increase  in  populism  and 
extremism,  political 
they  are 
misunderstood.  However,  misunderstood  leaders  do 
not  exist,  because  a  misunderstood  leader  is  not  a 
leader. A leader who does not connect with the people 
is  not  a  leader.  The  United  Nations  cannot  afford  the 
luxury  of  disconnecting  from  the  problems,  needs, 
expectations and hopes of the citizens of this globalized 
world. Andorra therefore offers its support to the plans 
to  reform  the  architecture  of  the  United  Nations  that 
Secretary-General Guterres and his team are carrying 
out.  More  effective  management  of  resources  is 
essential,  particularly  with  a  management  focused  on 
people. That is crucial.
In  this  final  part  of  my  statement  I  would  like  to 
tell a personal anecdote. Seven and a half years ago, I 
took on the responsibility of leading the Government of 
the Principality of Andorra. The ballot boxes bestowed 
that  responsibility  on  me  again  in  March  2015.  This 
will  therefore  be  the  last  time  that  I  address  the 
General Assembly.
Parliament in the same year that Andorra became a part 
of  the  United  Nations.  I  am  therefore  a  child  of  that 
time of optimism that I mentioned at the beginning, a 
time when democracy was expanding, economies were 
growing,  and  multilateral  institutions  were  becoming 
stronger. However, it was also up to me and the people 
of  my  generation  to  take  on  the  responsibilities  of 
Government  in  a  time  of  crisis  —  economic  crisis, 
social  crisis  and  a  crisis  in  values  —  at  a  time  when 
what we believed to be solid and resistant was proving 
to be fragile and unstable.
Over  time,  we  have  grown  accustomed  to  living 
with that awareness of fragility and instability. When 
all  is  said  and  done,  maybe  that  is  not  so  bad.  Our 
predecessors,  the  previous  generations  of  Andorrans, 
were acutely aware of the fragility of the foundations 
on which our very old institutions stood. If I compare 
that  sense  with  the  spirit  of  optimism  that  prevailed 
25  years  ago,  the  symbol  of  our  times,  the  symbol  of 
this current moment, is precisely that awareness of the 
fragility of the economy, the institutions, the worldwide 
geopolitical order, the environment and the planet as a 
whole. Everything seems to be much more fragile and 
in much greater danger now.
Moving from that awareness of fragility, we have 
found the strength to undertake actions that had been 
sitting on the table for years and to launch reforms that 
had been pending for decades — seeking a more open, 
transparent  and  cooperative  economy,  constructing 
a  more  inclusive  and  all-embracing  society,  finding 
sustainable  models  of  growth  and  preserving  the 
institutions  and  values  that  have  been  handed  down 
through history, adapting them and making them useful 
for the people of today. Out of necessity we have made 
a  virtue  and  out  of  weakness  we  have  found  strength 
so that the younger generations can take up the reins of 
their times and do so with the same optimism that we 
had 25 years ago. We must work right through to the last 
moment so that our disappointments can be transformed 
into their hope, so that our mistakes give rise to their 
ability  to  prevent  them  from  happening  again,  and 
so  that  our  good  choices  serve  as  the  foundations  on 
which  they  can  continue  to  build  peaceful,  equitable 
and sustainable societies.
In  Andorra,  the  entry  of  the  men  and  women 
of  my  generation  into  political  life  coincided  with 
the  approval  of  the  1993  Constitution  and  with  the 
recognition  of  our  country  as  a  full  member  of  the 
international  community.  I  was  elected  a  Member  of 
All  of  us,  the  older  and  the  younger  generations, 
should always be aware that everything that happens in 
the global area has local repercussions and that all of the 
actions that we undertake at the local level contribute 
to shaping the global society. Hopefully, it is one that 
32/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
is fairer in nature, a global society in which everybody 
feels  that  they  are  listened  to  and  included.  That  is  a 
global society to which Andorra — because of its small 
size,  but  also  because  of  its  serenity,  which  prevails 
as  a  result  of  centuries  of  peaceful  existence  —  is 
fully  committed.  The  Secretary-General  is  aware  of 
that,  as  are  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-third  session  and  all  our  friends  in  the 
international community.
Politicians  move  on.  Countries  and  institutions 
remain.  I  am  sure  that  in  the  future  Member  States 
will be able to continue to count on the Principality of 
Andorra to assist in building a fairer, safer world. That 
is our task.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Head of Government of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Antoni  Martí  Petit,  Head  of  Government  of 
the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by the Prime Minister and Minister 
for Itaukei Affairs, Sugar Industry and Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Fiji
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama, Prime Minister and Minister for Itaukei 
Affairs,  Sugar  Industry  and  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Fiji.
Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe  Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Itaukei  Affairs,  Sugar  Industry 
and  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Fiji,  was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe 
Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for 
Itaukei  Affairs,  Sugar  Industry  and  Foreign  Affairs 
of  the  Republic  of  Fiji,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Bainimarama (Fiji): Bula, and a very good day 
to  all.  Allow  me  to  congratulate  the  President  on  her 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
at its seventy-third session.
Every  year  brings  fresh  challenges  and  new 
crises,  even  as  the  crises  of  last  year  and  the  year 
before  await  some  resolution,  or  even  some  respite. 
This  Organization,  the  United  Nations,  is  continually 
challenged  to  stand  between  parties  in  conflict,  ease 
the suffering of refugees and migrants and continue its 
work to build a more peaceful, just and equal world. The 
Fijian people have always been proud of our nation’s full 
engagement with the United Nations. We have been a 
willing and energetic presence in peacekeeping efforts 
around the world, and we are now proudly putting every 
ounce of energy that we have into the fight to save this 
planet and its people — all of us — from a catastrophic 
warming of our climate.
Fiji  will  soon  celebrate  national  elections  for 
the  second  time  since  our  return  to  democracy.  I  say 
“celebrate” with a purpose, because truly free elections 
are the very starting point for democracy and freedom. 
If  the  people  cannot  choose  their  Government  freely, 
their other freedoms are always in jeopardy.
I  am  proud  of  what  we  have  accomplished  in  our 
Fijian  democracy.  The  shell  of  democracy  that  once 
existed  has  now  been  pierced,  bringing  the  Fijian 
people  into  a  genuinely  inclusive  society  in  which 
minority rights are respected and all citizens are equal, 
in  name  and  in  fact.  That  is  the  great  promise  of  the 
2013  Fijian  Constitution,  which  has  been  the  beacon 
for our progress through its vast array of political and 
socioeconomic protections for every Fijian.
Today and forever, in Fiji we make and will make no 
distinctions based on ethnicity, social status or religion, 
and we enforce and will enforce our laws guaranteeing 
equality. We have reinforced our democracy by passing 
laws  to  empower  girls  and  women  and  protect  them 
from violence. We have reformed our education system 
so  that  it  provides  real  opportunities  for  all  Fijians, 
regardless of income, gender or whether they live in the 
capital or on the most remote islands.
This year we achieved a literacy level of over 90 per 
cent. More than 90 per cent of girls in Fiji complete 15 
years of secondary education and just under 90 per cent 
of our boys do the same. We are building our future on 
that firm foundation of education.
We have also reformed our welfare programmes not 
only to provide a stronger safety net but also to create 
greater  opportunities  for  the  most  vulnerable  in  our 
society. While we provide free medicines and subsidized 
electricity, we also award grants to micro-businesses as 
a  way  of  lifting  people  out  of  poverty  and  rewarding 
and encouraging self-reliance and entrepreneurship.
18-30104
33/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
We  have  also  strengthened  our 
That  approach  goes  beyond  mere  Government 
programmes  for  the  disadvantaged.  It  is  based  on  the 
fundamental principle that the socioeconomic rights of 
all Fijians must be protected. They include the right to 
a high-quality education, the right to receive treatment 
and  medication  when  our  people  are  ill,  the  right  to 
decent housing, the right to clean water and electricity, 
and the right to affordable and accessible transportation.
independent 
institutions  —  our  judiciary  and  the  independent 
commissions that protect consumers, fight corruption, 
provide legal assistance, advocate and promote human 
rights  and  carry  out  many  Government  activities  that 
must  be  free  of  political  considerations.  I  may  be 
disappointed  when  my  Government  loses  a  case  in 
court, but those defeats are signs of strong, independent 
institutions, which we must support and reinforce. They 
serve to strengthen the people’s belief that everyone in 
Fiji can get justice. If people believe in the courts, they 
will go to the courts to settle their disputes and trust the 
courts to adjudicate without fear or favour.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Fijian  people  have  a 
strong and abiding love for  freedom. We  want  to live 
freely,  and  we  see  freedom,  democracy  and,  perhaps 
most important of all, tolerance as powerful forces for 
peace in the world. It is with that clearly demonstrated 
vocation  for  personal  freedom,  tolerance  and  social 
justice that Fiji is running as a candidate for membership 
in the Human Rights Council during this session of the 
General Assembly. We have thought hard about human 
rights and have taken actions to be a better nation — a 
nation that encourages respect for the dignity of every 
person. We look forward to bringing that point of view 
to the critical work of the Council.
Fiji looks to a future free of racism, nepotism and 
privilege,  a  future  where  the  rights  of  all  persons  are 
guaranteed  and  enforced  by  a  robust  constitutional 
framework that reaffirms and protects civil and political 
rights, as well as social, cultural and economic rights.
Our  value  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  also 
underpinned by our long experience in peacekeeping. 
It was exactly 40 years ago that Fiji first participated 
in United Nations peacekeeping. Over those 40 years, 
which  have  seen  Fijians  serving  in  Africa,  the  Sinai, 
East  Timor  and  throughout  the  Middle  East,  we  have 
come  to  identify  ourselves  as  a  peacekeeping  nation, 
which makes us proud. That is something that we offer 
to the global community and our fellow human beings.
Moreover, over those 40 years we have witnessed 
at  first  hand  the  way  intolerance  embraces  and  leads 
to  repression,  violence  and  mass  migration.  We  have 
experienced  intolerance  in  Fiji,  which  was  an  ugly 
experience that corroded our trust in each other and our 
sense  of  who  we  are  as  a  people.  We  must  remember 
that experience so that we do not repeat it, and we will 
never stop working to ensure that it stays in our past.
I  am  proud  to  stand  before  the  Assembly  and 
report that Fiji is in its ninth year of strong economic 
growth.  I  believe  that  that  is  due  in  no  small  part  to 
the democratization that has taken root in our country 
and  is  flourishing.  Democracy  is  based  on  a  belief 
in  the  people  and  the  belief  that  everyone  is  capable 
of  great  things  if  they  are  given  equal  opportunity. 
When  people  see  that  they  have  opportunities,  can 
obtain  justice,  speak  their  minds  and  be  heard,  and 
that their hard work will be rewarded, they invest their 
money  and  their  sweat  in  their  future  and  in  greater 
possibilities for their children. They stay at home and 
contribute rather than emigrating, and they feel free to 
let their hopes and ambitions soar. That is what drives 
a thriving economy.
However,  that  optimism  must  be  nurtured  and 
supported  through  intelligent  Government  action.  In 
Fiji we have reformed the tax laws to make them simpler 
and  more  just.  In  that  connection,  we  have  begun  to 
rigorously enforce our tax laws to ease the burden on 
those who have little and to ensure that whoever should 
pay pays a fair share. People who take risks and mount 
successful  businesses  should  enjoy  the  fruits  of  their 
hard work, but they must also do their part to sustain the 
nation. Tax cheating is an offence against the people, 
and we will root it out and penalize it wherever it exists.
We  have  also  reformed  our  State  enterprises  to 
make  them  profitable  and  efficient.  The  people  of 
Fiji  and  the  employees  of  those  companies  have  been 
the  main  beneficiaries,  because  better  capitalization 
and  better  management  has  produced  better  services, 
increased investments and higher wages.
We also see small and medium-sized enterprises as 
important ways of promoting growth and lifting people 
out of poverty. I am proud to say that my Government 
has  given  grants  worth  $32.4  million  to  small  and 
micro-enterprises,  and  we  have  been  rewarded  with 
explosive growth and extraordinary innovation in that 
sector.  Free  people  need  an  economic  structure  that 
34/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
serves them and makes them optimistic. That is one of 
the basic pillars of democracy.
Fiji  is  coming  to  the  end  of  its  presidency  of  the 
twenty-third session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change (COP-23), part of the United Nations ongoing 
climate  negotiations  among  the  nations  of  the  world, 
but  the  struggle  to  fight  global  warming  and  end  the 
degradation  of  our  oceans  will  continue  to  be  Fiji’s 
highest priority. The many disastrous effects of climate 
change  that  we  are  seeing  in  the  South  Pacific  and 
around the world are well documented. The same can 
be said of the enormous stresses on our oceans arising 
from  acidification,  overfishing,  warming  and  plastic 
refuse. The time to debate those facts is long past.
As the Fijian Prime Minister, I have met thousands 
of  Fijian  women,  men  and  children  every  year  who 
have  suffered  from  the  latest  wave  of  climate-related 
impacts, such as cyclones, flooding, prolonged droughts 
and steadily rising seas. I have met with farmers whose 
crops  have  been  washed  away,  teachers  and  students 
who have lost their schools, and families whose homes 
have been destroyed. They want their Prime Minister to 
demand that the world take action on their behalf.
The  commitments  that  we  have  all  made  through 
our  nationally  determined  contributions  fall  woefully 
short of the mark. They simply will not get us to the goal 
agreed in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, that 
of reducing the rate of global warming to well below the 
2°C target, let alone the more ambitious target of 1.5°C. 
What  matters  now  is  action.  Fiji  will  press  for  more 
action  on  climate  change  and  ocean  health  in  every 
forum that it is a part of. We cannot simply wait for the 
rest of the world to come around, because the effects of 
climate change are already bearing down on us.
We are already taking steps to boost our resilience. 
Fiji has begun a project to improve access to sustainable 
water supplies and sewerage services for approximately 
270,000  Fijians.  We  will  provide  cyclone  insurance 
coverage for low-income households. We are relocating 
entire  villages  and  communities  to  escape  the  rising 
seas.  Following  the  cyclones,  we  are  rebuilding  our 
infrastructure  to  a  higher  and  far  more  resilient 
standard. We are working to protect communities that 
face  unacceptably  high  risks  of  flooding.  Fiji  also 
became the first emerging market to issue a sovereign 
green bond to fund such activities.
However,  no  Government  can  combat  climate 
change alone. The challenge is simply too great. That is 
why, from the beginning of Fiji’s presidency of COP-23, 
I have sought to build a grand coalition of Governments, 
the private sector, labour forces, religious groups and 
civil society to take initiatives and come up with ideas 
and solutions, both great and small.
I  am  confident  that  I  speak  for  all  Fijians  and 
Pacific islanders when I say that I tend to lose patience 
with national leaders who proclaim their deep concern 
over climate change and then do little or nothing to lead 
their nations onto a more ambitious path for reducing 
greenhouse-gas  emissions.  Leaders  who  ignore  that 
threat  and  give  their  people  new  coal-fired  power 
plants instead of a better future for their children are 
either tragically short-sighted or simply engaging in a 
most cynical form of betrayal. And their people — all 
people — will bear the burden.
The  world  has  embraced  the  Pacific  tradition  of 
talanoa, a tradition of open and honest dialogue. That 
will help to raise our collective ambition. But ambition 
without  action  and  without  a  plan  is  just  talk.  The 
Talanoa Dialogue will reach a crescendo in Katowice, 
Poland,  at  COP-24.  We  cannot  let  Katowice  fail. 
Katowice must not became another Copenhagen.
We are not only calling on others to act, we are also 
leading from the front. Earlier this week I announced 
that  Fiji  will  commit  to  significantly  raising  its 
nationally determined contribution. Fiji will be a net-
zero greenhouse-gas-emission country by 2050. Fiji is 
proud to have launched the Ocean Pathway Partnership 
with  the  Government  of  Sweden.  We  know  that  the 
interaction of ocean ecology and climate change runs 
deep.  We  cannot  attempt  to  solve  the  crisis  of  one 
without confronting the crisis of the other. Our oceans 
are suffering from the stress of human activities, which 
goes  beyond  climate  change  and  includes  pollution, 
overfishing and acidification.
I want to draw the world’s serious attention to the 
need to help developing nations, particularly the most 
disadvantaged  and  vulnerable,  to  overcome  climate 
and  oceans  stresses.  We  need  access  to  finance  and 
practical solutions, and we need the United Nations to 
help  us  get  there.  It  has  been  an  honour  for  Fiji,  and 
for me personally, to lead the United Nations efforts on 
climate change this year. I am proud of what we have 
accomplished. The world has never needed the United 
Nations  more.  The  existential  problem  of  climate 
18-30104
35/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
change  requires  us  to  work  together,  the  challenge  of 
mobilizing finance for climate resilience requires us to 
work together, and more complex and more globalized 
conflicts require us to work together.
Fiji is firmly committed to the United Nations. We 
need  the  United  Nations  to  be  at  its  best  if  we  are  to 
have  any  chance  of  overcoming  the  grave  challenges 
that Fiji and the world now confront.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Itaukei Affairs, Sugar Industry and Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Fiji for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Josaia  Voreqe  Bainimarama,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Itaukei  Affairs,  Sugar  Industry 
and  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Fiji,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alexis  Tsipras, 
Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Hellenic Republic.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alexis  Tsipras,  Prime 
Minister of the Hellenic Republic, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.
(Greece) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Tsipras 
in  Greek; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Three 
years  ago,  when  I  first  had  the  honour  of  addressing 
the General Assembly in a plenary meeting (see A/70/
PV.22), I emphasized that Greece was at the forefront 
of three overlapping international crises. Those crises 
have had a severe impact on Greek society, its economy 
and the country’s diplomatic role in the region.
Greece  was  the  country  most  hard  hit  by  the 
eurozone crisis, losing 25 per cent of its gross domestic 
product, reaching more than 27 per cent unemployment 
and significant levels of poverty. Greece was also the 
European country that, from a per-capita point of view, 
carried the heaviest burden of the refugee crisis, as over 
1.2  million  people  entered  its  islands  within  a  period 
of a few months. Greece also found itself at the centre 
of a worsening crisis of destabilization in the Balkans 
the  eastern  Mediterranean,  with  nationalism 
and 
growing rapidly.
The  question  for  me  at  the  time  of  my  statement 
in  2015,  as  it  was  for  all  of  us,  was  whether  the 
United  Nations,  the  international  community  and  our 
international institutions would be able to help overcome 
those common challenges through collective solutions. 
The  question  was  whether  the  European  Union  (EU), 
the European Central Bank, the International Monetary 
Fund,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the  World 
Bank  would  guide  us  to  sustainable  growth,  help 
decrease  poverty  and  promote  more  balanced  global 
trade. The question was whether the EU, the Office of 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees 
and the International Organization for Migration would 
help us to effectively and humanely resolve the refugee 
and  migrant  crisis.  The  question  was  whether  the 
United  Nations,  the  EU,  NATO  and  the  Organization 
for Security and Cooperation in Europe would promote 
peace and stability, combat international terrorism and 
resolve conflicts in my region and many others.
In  the  years  that  followed,  however,  what  came 
to  the  fore  was  a  very  big  “trust  deficit”  vis-à-vis 
international and national institutions, as the Secretary-
General called it a few days ago (see A/73/PV.6). In that 
context, nationalist forces became stronger and stronger 
and finally succeeded in reframing the question. Their 
aggressive stance highlighted the fact that the question 
is not whether we can count on international institutions 
to  solve  common  problems  on  the  basis  of  common 
values,  but  whether  those  problems  and  values  are 
common at all. Their logic in confronting those crises 
was simple and based on a not-in-my-backyard attitude.
For  example,  in  dealing  with  the  eurozone  crisis, 
those forces called for a “Grexit” and the need to make 
an example of Greece. In dealing with the refugee crisis, 
they supported the unilateral closure of borders along 
the  Balkan  route  as  a  solution,  demanded  push-backs 
into the sea and called for a small Schengen area that 
excluded front-line EU countries. In dealing with crises 
in the broader region, the solutions that they proposed 
were  also  simplistic  —  sanctions  and  preventive  or 
humanitarian wars, and, when those led to a dead end, 
disengagement from the region and the containment of 
problems to avoid any spillover.
In Greece, we dynamically confronted not only the 
challenges themselves, but also the ideas and policies 
I have mentioned about the problems. Not only did we 
36/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
manage to stay standing, overcoming those difficulties, 
but  beyond  that  we  also  became  part  of  the  solution, 
rather  than  part  of  the  problem,  in  Europe  and  in  the 
broader  region.  We  did  that  without  succumbing  to 
the directives of countries, forces and institutions that 
disregarded  the  will  of  the  Greek  people  in  favour 
of  their  own  economic  or  geopolitical  interests  and 
without  resorting  to  nationalist  politics  that  would 
lead to a departure from the eurozone, an escalation of 
tension with neighbours and a violation of human rights 
and international law.
First, as regards the economy, we remained in the 
eurozone  but  carried  out  tough  negotiations  for  an 
economic  programme  that  centred  on  the  necessary 
structural  reforms  and  not  on  the  perpetuation  of 
punitive  and  exhausting  austerity.  At  the  same  time, 
we protected labour rights and are now establishing a 
respectable minimum wage, while guaranteeing fiscal 
space  to  support  the  welfare  State  and  those  who  are 
most vulnerable.
Today we have left behind economic programmes 
that  only  perpetuated  recession.  Our  growth  rate  has 
been 2.1 per cent this year, and will be going on 2.5 per 
cent next year. Unemployment has fallen by 8 per cent, 
tourism  has  exceeded  34  million  visits  per  year  and 
we are overachieving with regard to the size of budget 
surpluses, while investors’ interest is growing steadily. 
Greece is becoming a regional energy, commercial and 
transport hub, while also changing the energy map and 
developing its strategic assets.
Secondly,  with  regard  to  the  refugee  crisis,  we 
have had to deal with the highest refugee flows in post-
war  European  history.  We  did  that  while  respecting 
international  law  and  human  rights.  However,  at  the 
same  time,  we  supported  the  difficult,  but  necessary, 
EU-Turkey statement. We did not give in to nationalistic 
and  xenophobic  voices  that  called  for  push-backs 
into  the  sea  or  a  superficial  asylum  process  aimed  at 
rejecting  everyone.  However,  we  also  did  not  hesitate 
to  accept  that  those  who  do  not  need  international 
protection  must  return  to  their  countries  of  origin 
where they can be safe.
We  severely  criticized  those  European  countries 
that  rejected  their  responsibility  to  assume  their  fair 
share of the burden — countries that call for unity when 
it comes to having rights but see things differently when 
it  comes  to  fulfilling  responsibilities.  The  people  of 
Greece, despite their difficulties, opened their arms to 
incoming migrants, showing the world what solidarity 
means. Deaths in the Aegean Sea have nearly reached 
zero, and migrant flows have fallen radically.
challenges 
caused  by 
Thirdly,  concerning 
the  security  crisis,  we 
confronted  grave 
rapid 
destabilization,  the  strengthening  of  nationalism  and 
increasing  tensions  in  a  region  in  which  we  already 
had  stark  differences  with  neighbouring  countries.  In 
that  geopolitical  context,  Greece  retained  a  policy  of 
protecting its sovereign rights and interests. However, 
at  the  same  time,  it  chose  to  become,  together  with 
Cyprus, the most important European pillar of peace, 
security and stability in the region.
We have established dynamic trilateral schemes of 
cooperation  with  Egypt,  Israel,  Jordan,  Lebanon  and 
Palestine.  We  also  clearly  presented  the  message  that 
dialogue, cooperation and respect for international law 
are  the  only  ways  to  foster  stable  bilateral  relations 
and strengthen the prospects for the region. Moreover, 
we remained committed to that policy in our difficult 
relations with Turkey, refusing again and again to give 
in  to  nationalism  and  the  escalation  of  tensions.  That 
position allowed us to show the great potential for our 
relations  in  the  areas  of  security,  migration,  energy 
and  the  economy,  while  also  making  clear  the  need 
for respect for international law in the Aegean and the 
eastern Mediterranean.
In that context, we clearly expressed and continue 
to express our full support for a just and viable solution 
to  the  Cyprus  issue,  on  the  basis  of  United  Nations 
decisions. The solution will be based on the framework 
of  the  Secretary-General  and  our  important  Crans-
Montana negotiations.
Moreover, we are actively promoting stability and 
economic  growth  in  the  Balkans  through  a  policy  of 
resolving  issues  with  our  neighbours,  which  unlocks 
their  potential  to  join  the  EU  and  other  international 
organizations  of  their  choice.  One  example  would  be 
our  dialogue  with  Albania,  but,  most  importantly, 
the  Prespes  agreement  with  our  immediate  northern 
neighbour. That agreement is important not only for the 
region, but also as a model for the peaceful resolution 
of differences. Moreover, the agreement did not come 
about  through  the  stronger  party’s  imposition  of  its 
will and interests on the other, but through a mutually 
acceptable  arrangement  that  preserves  the  dignity  of 
both sides.
18-30104
37/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
reframed 
I  think  that  today  it  is  high  time  that  we,  as  an 
the  questions 
international  community, 
for  our 
future,  because  we  have  heard  many 
important  statements.  The  dilemma  is  not  one  of 
patriotism  versus  globalism.  It  is  rather  whether  we 
will  leave  our  world  in  a  vicious  circle  of  nationalist 
reaction  and  regression,  which  history  has  taught  us 
leads to tragedy, or create the conditions for collective, 
progressive  solutions  that  respect  the  national  and 
popular sovereignty of each and every country.
Modern, democratic, patriotic politics cannot mean 
passively  accepting  the  directives  of  transnational 
elites  who  are  accountable 
to  no  one.  Modern, 
democratic, patriotic politics cannot accept as a given 
an  international  order  that  reproduces  inequalities  of 
power and wealth, protects the rights of some to have 
enormous  trade  surpluses  at  the  expense  of  others, 
or  allows  some  countries  to  impose  their  will  and 
interests  on  others  in  the  name  of  common  values  no 
less. That is our position with regard to the eurozone, to 
humanitarian wars in the region and to our differences 
with our neighbours.
On  the  other  hand,  modern,  democratic,  patriotic 
politics has to be able to deal with twenty-first-century 
global  and  regional  challenges,  challenges  that  are 
common  by  their  very  nature  and  can  only  be  dealt 
with  collectively,  on  the  basis  of  shared  values.  We 
believe that modern, democratic, patriotic politics must 
be  based  on  collective  arrangements  and  guarantees 
that preserve and promote peace, stability, sustainable 
growth  and  human  rights,  and  that  they  should  not 
be  based  on  a  logic  of  unilateralism,  nationalism  and 
strengthening the powerful over the weak.
that 
That  means  making  sure 
international 
organizations,  including  financial  ones,  become  more 
accountable and respond to the actual needs of States 
and  citizens.  It  means  supporting  the  Secretary-
General’s  vision  for  United  Nations  reform,  as  well 
as  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development, 
the  coming  global  compact  on  migration,  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  Iran  nuclear 
deal, despite all of its weaknesses.
Palestinians’ just demand for a State on the basis of the 
1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
It  means  promoting  valuable  dialogue  among 
European  and  Euro-Atlantic  institutions  and  member 
States with Russia, on the basis of mutual respect and 
with the goal of dealing with international challenges 
and  regional  crises.  It  means  promoting  peace  and 
development  in  Africa,  supporting  the  countries  that 
carry  the  biggest  burden  in  hosting  refugees,  such  as 
Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, and confronting the root 
causes of migration. It means supporting positive steps 
for  a  diplomatic  solution  to  denuclearization  on  the 
Korean peninsula.
Lastly,  particularly  as  we  celebrate  the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  it  means  advancing  the  human  rights  agenda, 
which  Greece  has  done,  after  all,  by  granting 
citizenship to second-generation immigrants who were 
born and raised in our country, by establishing the legal 
recognition of gender identity and the institutionalization 
of civil partnership and by deepening the rights of the 
Muslim minority.
This year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary 
of  the  birth  of  Nelson  Mandela,  who  once  said  that 
tasks always seem impossible until they are done. For 
the  last  eight  years  my  country  has  been  hit  hard  by 
three global crises. We decisively confronted the logic 
that countries affected by global challenges must deal 
with  them  alone.  Today,  although  Greece  still  faces 
big challenges in its economy, migration management 
and diplomacy, it is again standing on its feet, bringing 
solutions to the region. That would not have happened 
without  a  politics  that  asserts  popular  and  national 
sovereignty  but  also  commits  to  collective  solutions 
aimed at peace, stability and preserving human rights.
The  challenge  for  our  time  is  to  once  again  find 
the  proper  balance  as  an  international  community, 
confronting 
that  spread  fear 
and  hatred  and  that  in  the  end  seek  to  scale  back  the 
progress  we  have  made.  That  is  a  genuinely  modern, 
democratic and patriotic choice — one whose aim will 
be  to  ensure  that  our  countries  progress  and  prosper, 
rather than become pitted against each other.
international  forces 
It means finding a political solution in Syria on the 
basis  of  an  inclusive  political  dialogue  under  United 
Nations  auspices,  and  revitalizing  the  Middle  East 
peace  process  towards  a  comprehensive  solution  that 
responds  to  Israel’s  just  demand  for  security  and  the 
In conclusion, the civilization of my country leaves 
no space for doubting the choice that we will support. 
I  assure  the  Assembly  that  the  Greek  people  will  be 
standing  once  again,  and  as  always,  on  the  right  side 
of history.
38/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Hellenic Republic for the statement he has just made.
people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for 
peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  is  both 
apt and timely.
Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister of the Hellenic 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Home  Affairs,  External 
Communications  and  National  Development 
Unit,  Minister  for  Finance  and  Economic 
Development of the Republic of Mauritius
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Home Affairs, External Communications and National 
Development Unit, Minister for Finance and Economic 
Development of the Republic of Mauritius.
Pravind 
Kumar 
Jugnauth, 
Mr. 
Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Home  Affairs,  External 
Communications and National Development Unit, 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Economic  Development 
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  was  escorted  to 
the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pravind  Kumar 
Jugnauth, Prime Minister, Minister for Home Affairs, 
External  Communications  and  National  Development 
Unit, Minister for Finance and Economic Development 
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the Assembly.
Mr.  Jugnauth  (Mauritius):  Let  me  join  other 
leaders in paying special tribute to the late Kofi Annan, 
former  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
legacy  left  by  that  great  son  of  Africa  will  forever 
remain carved in the history of the United Nations.
I  warmly  congratulate  Ms.  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa Garcés on her election as the President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session,  and  I 
want to assure her of our full support in her work. I also 
thank Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for his dedicated and able 
leadership,  relentless  commitment  to  multilateralism 
and continued engagement with Member States during 
his presidency.
The  year  2018  is  a  special  year  for  Mauritius,  as 
it marks the fiftieth anniversary of our independence. 
We also celebrate, with immense pride and honour, 50 
years of membership in this body. The theme for this 
session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
We are living in troubled times that are marked by 
uncertainty and complex threats to the peace, stability 
and sustainability of our planet. Increased international 
tensions,  intractable  conflicts,  expanding  pockets  of 
poverty  throughout  the  world,  growing  inequalities, 
the deterioration of the oceans, climate change, violent 
extremism  and  terrorism,  nationalism,  cyberthreats, 
escalating  militarization  and  forced  migration  are 
only  some  of  the  perils  that  endanger  global  peace 
and  security.  These  challenges  cannot  be  overcome 
without  greater  cooperation,  global  leadership  and 
shared responsibilities.
Ms. Scott (Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
We  wholeheartedly  welcome  the  reform  process 
to  make  the  United  Nations  fit  for  purpose,  closer 
to  and  more  consonant  with  the  people  it  serves  and 
better  equipped  to  bring  about  the  implementation  of 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, so that 
no  one,  irrespective  of  race  or  gender,  is  left  behind. 
My Government remains fully committed to the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  In  that  regard, 
Mauritius  will  present  its  voluntary  national  review 
at  the  2019  high-level  political  forum  on  sustainable 
development next July.
The  SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of  Action 
(SAMOA)  Pathway  remains  a  valid  road  map  for  us 
to  measure  how  much  progress  has  been  achieved  in 
addressing  the  challenges  and  difficulties  faced  by 
small island developing States (SIDS), including climate 
change. We welcome the holding of the mid-term review 
of the SAMOA Pathway next September, and we call on 
all  stakeholders  to  participate  at  the  highest  level,  in 
order to assist SIDS in strengthening their resilience.
The  stark  effects  of  climate  change  are  being  felt 
all around the world. As we have seen in California, the 
Carolinas, the Philippines, China, Europe and elsewhere, 
the frequency of extreme weather events demonstrates 
that  climate  change  can  affect  every  country  on 
every  continent.  Hurricanes,  floods,  droughts  and 
wildfires are becoming deadlier, and weather patterns 
more  severe.  These  disasters  are  sounding  the  alarm. 
Without a renewed global commitment to undertaking 
ambitious  efforts  aimed  at  combating  climate  change 
and  adapting  to  its  effects,  we  will  fail  to  meet  the 
18-30104
39/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
targets of the Paris Agreement and endanger our planet, 
as well as our own survival.
We cannot dissociate the climate from our oceans. 
Our  planet’s  future  also  depends  on  our  ability  to 
further protect the oceans and increase their ability to 
act as a buffer against climate change. We need global 
leadership  and  enhanced  multilateral  cooperation  to 
safeguard the ocean and its role as the natural weather 
regulator of our planet.
As a large ocean State that respects the rule of law 
and international law, Mauritius has taken the lead in 
the western Indian Ocean region in combating piracy 
and other transnational organized crimes and in keeping 
its  territory  and  surrounding  areas  safe.  As  Chair  of 
the  Indian  Ocean  Commission,  Mauritius  co-hosted 
with  the  Commission  a  ministerial  conference  on 
maritime  security  in  April  to  coordinate  actions  to 
fight  transnational  organized  crimes,  such  as  drug 
trafficking, piracy and human trafficking. In doing so, 
we have consolidated our engagement with the United 
Nations system, in particular, the United Nations Office 
on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  the  Department  of  Political 
Affairs, with which we recently signed a memorandum 
of understanding to assist the Indian Ocean region in 
fighting these security threats and challenges.
We  are  equally  concerned  about  the  situation  in 
the  Middle  East,  where  the  scourge  of  violence  and 
war  continues  to  claim  innocent  lives.  Peace  in  that 
region will remain elusive as long as the international 
community  does  not  live  up  to  its  legal  and  moral 
responsibilities to uphold international law. Mauritius 
therefore  reiterates  its  call  for  renewed  and  genuine 
international efforts in favour of negotiations towards 
the  speedy  realization  of  a  two-State  solution,  with 
an  independent  and  viable  Palestine  existing  side  by 
side  and  at  peace  with  the  State  of  Israel.  While  we 
wait for this to happen, it is extremely important that 
the  suffering  of  the  people,  especially  women  and 
children, is alleviated through renewed and increased 
international support.
Despite  all  the  current  efforts,  terrorism  remains 
a  painful  reality,  claiming  numerous  lives  daily  and 
threatening world peace and development. It is urgent 
that  we  build  consensus  on  global  counter-terrorism 
efforts  and  reinforce  multilateral  cooperation 
in 
fighting  this  scourge.  Indeed,  we  must  pay  attention 
to  why  individuals  are  attracted  to  violent  extremist 
groups.  We  believe  firmly  that  the  creation  of  open, 
equitable,  inclusive  and  pluralist  societies,  based  on 
the  full  respect  of  human  rights  and  with  education 
and economic opportunities for all, represents the most 
effective way to ending violent extremism.
Drug 
and 
trafficking 
In  that  same  vein,  we  need  to  reinforce  global 
non-proliferation regimes. The continued existence of 
nuclear  arsenals  and  the  threat  of  a  nuclear  disaster 
represents  a  major  impediment  to  the  maintenance  of 
peace and security. We must also remain vigilant with 
regard  to  the  cyberthreats  that  endanger  our  national 
security. As highlighted in the new disarmament agenda 
that the Secretary-General presented in May, we must 
create  secure  physical  and  cyberzones  in  space,  on 
land  and  on  the  seas,  and  we  need  to  do  whatever  is 
necessary to make our planet a safe place for all.
unregulated 
drug 
consumption have the potential to destroy the future of 
our  young  people.  We  are  all  too  well  aware  of  how 
drugs  undermine  sustainable  human  development 
and  the  stability  of  countries  and  whole  regions. 
My  Government  remains  determined  to  fight  drug 
trafficking. In that regard, our commission of inquiry 
on drug trafficking, set up to inquire on all aspects of 
drug trafficking in Mauritius, has recently submitted its 
findings. I have set up a ministerial committee to look 
into its recommendations, which include strengthening 
the existing institutional framework and reviewing the 
relevant legislation. To address the evolving challenges 
of drugs, my country has committed to the Global Call 
to Action on the World Drug Problem. More than ever, 
we need closer cooperation to address this scourge.
to  undermine 
We  must  be  careful  not 
the 
multilateral system, as it has served the community of 
nations well. The United Nations was created to bring 
States  together.  It  also  established  conditions  under 
which justice and respect for the law can be maintained 
and strengthened.
Conscious of the responsibility of belonging to the 
Assembly, my country made a pledge at its admission in 
1968 to uphold the great ideals that are enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations. We gave the assurance 
that we would bring our contribution, however modest 
it might be, to shaping the destiny of a better world.
As  a  responsible  member  of  this  community  of 
nations,  Mauritius  has  remained  true  to  that  pledge. 
Today I reaffirm my country’s continued commitment to 
the ideals and values of the Organization, its respect for 
international law and faith in international partnership 
40/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
so as to build a safer and more prosperous world. It is 
with this commitment that Mauritius subscribes to the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, 
and  we  look  forward  to  its  adoption  in  Marrakech 
in December.
In the same spirit of upholding the Charter of the 
United Nations, and based on their commitment to the 
international rule of law, in June 2017 member States of 
the Group of African States introduced draft resolution 
A/71/L.73,  requesting  an  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International Court of Justice on the legal consequences 
of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  from 
Mauritius  in  1965.  At  the  heart  of  this  request  for 
an  advisory  opinion  is  the  issue  of  decolonization,  a 
matter of international public order under the Charter 
and a central element of the work of the United Nations 
and General Assembly. To date, the decolonization of 
Mauritius remains incomplete, thanks to the unlawful 
excision  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  from  Mauritius 
prior to its accession to independence.
The hearings at the Court have been completed, and 
the judges will now deliberate on a matter that has raised 
important issues relating to decolonization and human 
rights,  particularly  the  right  to  self-determination  of 
the people of Mauritius and the plight of Mauritians of 
Chagossian origin who were forcibly removed from the 
Chagos  Archipelago.  The  advisory  opinion  will  also 
further  clarify  and  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  at  the 
international  level  at  a  time  when  such  strengthening 
is  greatly  needed.  I  want  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  express  my  Government’s  appreciation  to  all  the 
member States of the African Union that have actively 
participated in the written and oral proceedings of the 
International Court of Justice relating to this matter.
The  United  Nations  is  and  will  always  be  at  the 
centre of all action for sustainable development, peace 
and  security.  While  we  applaud  the  three-pronged 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  led  by  the  Secretary-
General,  considerable  resources  will  be  required 
to  match  this  ambition.  We  therefore  appeal  to  all 
stakeholders  to  be  generous  in  supporting  the  reform 
by providing adequate resources on a predictable basis. 
We also appeal for a special consideration of Africa’s 
needs  and  priorities  in  the  restructuring  of  the  peace 
and security architecture.
We commend the efforts of the Secretary-General 
aimed  at  enhancing  the  framework  of  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union, 
which  is  so  vital  to  sustained  peace  and  development 
on the continent. Africa’s growth is showing promising 
signs of rebounding, and several countries are already 
undergoing  positive  transitions.  Elections  in  Africa 
during the last several years demonstrate that African 
countries  have  strengthened  their  democracies,  while 
ensuring a peaceful transition of power. We welcomed 
the  signing  of  a  historical  peace  agreement  between 
Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  ending  two  decades  of  tension 
that  followed  years  of  open  conflict,  causing  the  loss 
of thousands of lives. The improved political climate, 
reconciliation efforts and inclusive participation rights 
herald  a  new  age  of  governance  that  deserves  to  be 
supported by the international community.
One aspect of United Nations reform where we find 
progress  wanting  is  in  the  collective  aspiration  for  a 
strengthened and more legitimate Security Council that 
reflects today’s reality. We once again call for reform of 
the Security Council and repeat our plea for the start of 
a text-based negotiation. We all agree that an equitable 
representation  of  Africa  on  the  Security  Council  will 
not  only  redress  a  gross  historical  injustice  but  also 
render the Council more democratic and representative. 
We  also  support  India’s  legitimate  aspiration  for  a 
permanent seat in an enlarged Security Council and a 
non-permanent seat for small island developing States.
Four days ago we celebrated the memory and legacy 
of  one  of  Africa’s  most  illustrious  leaders,  Nelson 
Mandela (see A/73/PV.4 et seq.). As world leaders, we 
would  benefit  from  being  inspired  by  the  words  and 
actions of Mandela, especially when he said:
“What counts in life is not the mere fact that we 
have lived. It is what difference we have made to the 
lives of others that will determine the significance 
of the life we lead.”
Together we can make that difference.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Home  Affairs,  External  Communications  and 
National Development Unit, Minister for Finance and 
Economic  Development  of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius 
for the statement he has just made.
Pravind 
Kumar 
Mr. 
Prime 
Minister,  Minister  for  Home  Affairs,  External 
Communications and National Development Unit, 
Minister  for  Finance  and  Economic  Development 
Jugnauth, 
18-30104
41/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Duško Marković, Prime Minister 
of Montenegro
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of Montenegro.
Mr.  Duško  Marković,  Prime  Minister  of 
Montenegro, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Duško Marković, Prime 
Minister  of  Montenegro,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the Assembly.
Mr. Marković (Montenegro) (spoke in Montenegrin; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my 
pleasure  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  behalf 
of  Montenegro,  one  of  the  youngest  members  of  the 
United  Nations,  which,  since  the  restoration  of  its 
statehood 12 years ago, has clearly and unequivocally 
confirmed  its  commitment  to  joint  action  within  the 
United Nations system.
At the outset, allow me to congratulate Ms. María 
Fernanda Espinosa Garcés of Ecuador on her election 
as the President of the General Assembly at its seventy-
third session, and to wish her success in carrying out 
the responsibilities and duties of the post. I also want 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
seventy-second  session,  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  for  his 
outstanding leadership and contribution to strengthening 
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  and  stepping  up 
dialogue  with  Member  States.  I  congratulate  him  on 
another  job  well  done,  and  express  gratitude  for  the 
lasting friendship he has shown towards Montenegro.
I  welcome  the  theme  chosen  for  the  general 
debate  of  the  seventy-third  session.  I  firmly  believe 
that  in  these  challenging  times  concerted  action  and 
shared responsibility for peaceful, just and sustainable 
societies are the right and only way towards achieving 
our goal of making the United Nations relevant to all 
people on the planet.
Given  the  complex  situations  and  challenges  that 
the  world  is  facing,  the  grave  divisions  for  numerous 
reasons,  the  catastrophic  consequences  of  the  spread 
of terrorism and violent extremism, as well as climate 
change,  there  is  no  question  that  only  through  joint 
action  can  we  succeed  in  resolving  conflicts  and 
preventing  the  further  suffering  of  innocent  people. 
The historic multilateral agreements that we have made 
in  recent  times  show  what  we  can  do  through  joint 
action. These agreements, primarily the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change,  envisage  our  common  future  and 
confirm  that  multilateralism  is  not  an  option  but  the 
only effective tool in our toolbox.
reforming 
its  central 
role 
For 
the  full 
implementation  of 
the  adopted 
the  United  Nations  and 
agreements, 
strengthening 
in  multilateralism 
are  more  necessary  than  ever.  This  seventy-third 
session  is  therefore  of  paramount  importance  for 
restoring  confidence  in  the  United  Nations.  Indeed, 
notwithstanding 
justified  criticism 
directed at the Organization, it is capable of achieving 
the noble objectives for which it was founded. It cannot 
be  said  that  these  lofty  goals  have  been  achieved  in 
today’s world, but neither do we have to hide that fact. 
We must look the problem in the eye and assume our 
share  of  responsibility  for  the  state  of  today’s  —  and 
tomorrow’s — world.
the  sometimes 
Montenegro  strongly  supports  the  United  Nations 
reform  process.  I  am  confident  that  the  issue  of 
fragmentation  within  the  Organization  can  be  settled 
by strengthening the linkages among all three pillars of 
action and by promoting greater transparency, efficiency 
and accountability. I believe that the implementation of 
the  complex  reform  agenda,  coupled  with  the  strong 
leadership  of  Secretary-General  Guterres,  will  result 
in  a  more  efficient  Organization  and  contribute  to 
reducing suffering throughout the world and ensuring 
common peace, security and prosperity.
I  would  like  to  remind  the  General  Assembly  of 
Montenegro’s views, in a nutshell, on some of the key 
topics  on  the  agenda  of  this  session  of  the  Assembly. 
First  of  all,  Montenegro  is  strongly  committed  to  the 
policy underlying the Sustainable Development Goals  
and the work being done to achieve those Goals, which 
complement the reforms that we have undertaken in our 
European  integration  process.  Furthermore,  although 
its share in global emissions and population statistics is 
small, Montenegro is committed to the implementation 
of the Paris Climate Agreement through the responsible 
and  sustainable  management  of 
its  development 
potential.  Montenegro  welcomes  the  initiative  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  hold  a  climate  change  summit 
in 2019.
42/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
In  terms  of  finding  solutions  to  conflicts  all 
around  the  world,  we  are  aware  that  the  international 
community  often  fails  to  prevent  crime  and  the 
suffering of many. In addition to what we have learned 
from the long-standing conflict in Syria, the findings of 
the commission of inquiry into human rights violations 
in Myanmar also warn of the importance of prevention 
and  addressing  the  causes  of  instability  in  a  timely 
manner.  It  is  our  moral  and  political  responsibility  to 
prevent  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  the  crimes 
committed.  In  this  regard,  the  role  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  other 
criminal tribunals is crucial.
Conflicts 
Montenegro deplores the stalemate in settling the 
long-standing Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and the lack 
of  progress  in  resolving  the  worsening  humanitarian 
situation in the Gaza Strip. Today we call on all parties 
to uphold international law and refrain from unilateral 
actions  that  weaken  confidence  and  make  it  difficult 
to  reach  a  mutually  acceptable  peace  agreement.  We 
strongly support the resumption of negotiations and the 
use of mediation in striving to reach a peaceful solution.
in  Syria,  Yemen,  Libya  and  other 
countries,  as  well  as  the  long-standing  Palestinian-
Israeli conflict, require an immediate end to violence, 
respect for international law on the part of all parties 
to  the  conflict  and  peaceful  settlements  achieved 
through diplomatic means as soon as possible. In order 
to eradicate terrorism and violent extremism, we must 
step up efforts to strengthen the implementation of the 
prevention pillar of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism Strategy. The focus of our activities must be 
on the integration of vulnerable and marginalized groups 
and care for young people as the main stakeholders in 
a better future.
We  strongly  support  global  efforts  aimed  at 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  I  am  certain  that  through  the 
consistent application of the relevant treaties on nuclear 
disarmament  and  arms  control,  we  can  achieve  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  world.  We  therefore  support  the 
activities of the United States of America, the Republic 
of  Korea  and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  aimed  at  ensuring  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula.
I  will  now  touch  on  two  very  important  and 
intertwined aspects of today’s world: human rights and 
humanitarian challenges.
Any  violation  of  human  rights  poses  a  threat  to 
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  and  represents  a  step 
towards  possible  conflict.  At  a  time  when  we  are 
commemorating  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights, the twenty-fifth of the adoption of the Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action and the twentieth 
of  the  adoption  of  the  Declaration  on  Human  Rights 
Defenders, we are witnessing an increasing number of 
examples of grave human rights violations around the 
world. It is unacceptable that we remain silent about this 
fact.  In  addressing  these  situations,  we  acknowledge 
the  important  role  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the need for it to be more efficient and effective in its 
functions  in  order  to  build  on  the  results  achieved  so 
far.  A  strong  and  determined  commitment  to  taking 
a  progressive  approach  to  human  rights  is  necessary, 
as  is  improving  our  record  in  adhering  to  the  highest 
standards at all levels.
With  respect  to  the  protection  and  promotion  of 
human rights at the national level, significant progress 
has been made in the protection of women, children and 
the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender populations, 
and  in  the  integration  of  marginalized  groups.  We 
aim  to  strengthen  and  expand  our  national  human 
rights  dialogue,  which  should  contribute  to  improved 
adherence  to  international  standards.  Montenegro’s 
commitment to the issue of gender equality and the fight 
against  violence  against  women  has  been  reaffirmed 
by  our  chairmanship  of  the  Executive  Board  of  UN-
Women. We strongly advocate greater roles for women 
as leaders, high-level decision-makers and stakeholders 
in conflict prevention, resolution and reconciliation.
Although  humanitarian  challenges  are  on  the 
rise,  I  want  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  two  key 
multilateral  agreements  that  have  arisen  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  the  global  compacts 
on migration and refugees. The adoption of the global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration  will 
contribute to the improved management of international 
migration in all dimensions, to the benefit of all States 
and communities, including migrants. Our Government 
is  working  in  all  areas  to  better  regulate  migration 
processes and is doing everything it can to enable the 
admission of migrants and refugees in accordance with 
international standards in this area, while taking into 
account  its  own  national  capacities.  Bearing  in  mind 
our experience in admitting a large number of refugees 
during the Balkan conflicts in the 1990s, we have helped 
18-30104
43/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
to  develop  the  global  compact  on  refugees,  which  we 
believe will contribute to the international community’s 
joint action to regulate the mass movement of refugees 
and provide support to destination countries.
In  the  past  12  years,  since  the  restoration  of  our 
independence,  we  have  made  rapid  progress  in  the 
State-building process on the basis of lofty democratic 
values.  Our  results  are  not  just  a  product  of  political 
pragmatism  but  a  vision  of  a  modern  Montenegro 
geared to the stability and prosperity of its citizens.
Montenegro  is  a  new  member  of  NATO,  having 
joined  it  last  year.  We  are  aware  of  the  necessity  for 
a  safe  and  secure  environment  and  are  committed  to 
dealing  with  the  issues  of  global  security  and  the 
preservation  and  enhancement  of  common  values 
within  both  NATO  and  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions. Membership in NATO has given us a strong 
incentive to further strengthen the rule of law based on 
the highest democratic values.
At the same time, we are vigorously implementing 
economic reforms that have resulted in a high economic 
growth rate of more than 4.5 per cent last year and in 
the  first  half  of  this  year.  The  reforms  are  based  on 
principles of sustainable development that will secure 
higher living standards for our people in the longer term.
At the moment, Montenegro is a front runner among 
the  Western  Balkan  States  engaged  in  the  process  of 
joining  the  European  Union.  Among  other  things,  we 
have  earned  this  position  because  multinational  and 
multireligious harmony has been a historical feature of 
our country and our greatest value. We are committed 
to  strengthening 
them 
sustainable, and are determined to win the fight against 
organized crime and corruption.
institutions  and  making 
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
Assembly’s  attention  to  the  current  situation  in  my 
region. The Western Balkans is now a better place to 
live  than  20  or  30  years  ago,  owing  to  the  efforts  of 
the  international  community  and  the  Governments  of 
the countries of the region. We in Montenegro believe 
that  there  is  no  better  future  for  our  citizens  than 
being integrated into the European Union. We are also 
confident that this choice is also natural for Europe. In 
our view, European values are the best — indeed, the 
only — answer to growing nationalism and populism. 
However,  in  order  to  achieve  the  goal  of  furthering 
European values, decisive action must be taken based 
on a clear vision of wholeness, stability and strength in 
every corner of Europe.
Montenegro  will  remain  committed  to  promoting 
regional stability and cooperation and developing good 
neighbourly relations. In that regard, we welcome the 
signing of the historic agreement between Macedonia 
and  Greece,  which  contributes  to  broadening  the 
European and Euro-Atlantic perspective of the region. 
We  hope  for  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
agreement reached, which will be conducive to creating 
an  environment  favourable  to  the  further  overall 
development of the region.
We also welcome the negotiations between Belgrade 
and  Pristina.  We  believe  that  in  the  coming  period  it 
will  result  in  the  achievement  of  a  lasting  agreement 
and the full normalization of relations, which is in the 
interest of both the region and Europe.
Montenegro will continue to be a responsible partner 
as it works together with the United Nations. Through 
its membership in the organs and agencies of the United 
Nations,  it  will  contribute  to  United  Nations  efforts 
aimed at addressing global challenges. In addition to its 
membership in and chairing of the Executive Board of 
UN-Women,  Montenegro  has  submitted  its  candidacy 
for  membership  in  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
for  the  period  from  2020  to  2022,  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  period  from  2022  to  2024  and  the 
Security Council for a term from 2026 to 2027.
We  believe  that  we  will  gain  the  support  and 
confidence  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations in those bodies, which will be an opportunity 
to  contribute  to  stronger  and  more  effective  United 
Nations  action.  The  key  interests  of  our  countries 
are  shared  —  they  are  greater  peace,  security  and 
prosperity for our citizens. In this respect, the United 
Nations must continue to play a strong role.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Montenegro for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Duško  Marković,  Prime  Minister  of 
Montenegro, was escorted from the rostrum.
44/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
Address  by  Samdech  Akka  Moha  Sena  Padei 
Techo Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Cambodia
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Cambodia.
Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, was 
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Samdech Akka Moha Sena 
Padei Techo Hun Sen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Cambodia, and inviting him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Hun Sen (Cambodia) (spoke in Khmer; English 
text provided by the delegation): My participation in the 
general debate of the General Assembly at this session 
is  taking  place  in  a  context  in  which  the  Cambodian 
nation  is  enjoying  dividends  of  peace,  stability  and 
rapid  development 
its 
modern  history.  Cambodia  is  an  outstanding  example 
of a war-torn country that has succeeded in completely 
transforming itself in a way that it is proud of.
that  are  unprecedented 
in 
Once infamous for its killing fields in a region made 
unstable by armed conflicts and dangerous landmines, 
Cambodia, formerly an economically backward country 
mired in poverty and food insecurity, now enjoys full 
peace.  It  has  become  a  popular  tourist  destination  in 
South-East  Asia  and  a  food  exporter.  It  also  stands 
out  for  its  achievements  in  poverty  reduction  and  its 
improvements  across  all  social  indicators.  Cambodia 
is  recognized  as  one  of  the  world’s  fastest-growing 
economies,  having  recently  successfully  graduated 
from low-income to lower-middle-income status, owing 
to its high economic growth, at around 7 per cent per 
annum over the past two decades.
Despite  being  notorious  for  its  history  of  armed 
struggle for power and multiple changes of Government, 
Cambodia is now governed by the rule of law and firmly 
respects multiparty liberal democracy, with regular, free 
and fair elections that enable its people to choose their 
country’s  leadership.  In  Cambodia’s  general  election 
for electing members of the sixth National Assembly in 
July, nearly 7 million Cambodians, or 83.02 per cent of 
registered voters, cast their votes and freely expressed 
their  political  choices  without  coercion,  threat  or 
violence. Twenty registered political parties ran in the 
election, which clearly demonstrated the legitimacy of 
our pluralist politics and reflected what was described 
by  thousands  of  domestic  and  international  observers 
in Cambodia as a stable democratic process in the form 
of a free, fair and credible election.
By 
their  votes,  Cambodians  reaffirmed 
their 
desire for peace, stability and long-lasting sustainable 
development.  Indeed,  neither  the  free  choice  of  the 
Cambodian  people  nor  the  legitimate  result  of  the 
election  is  a  subject  for  question  or  debate.  In  some 
outside circles, however, where an ambition to interfere 
in the domestic affairs of Cambodia has been nourished, 
questions about the quality and integrity of our election 
process have been raised in statements that attack the 
outcome  of  the  election.  Such  actions  are  a  serious 
assault on the will of the Cambodian people.
I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  the  vitality  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  all  give  the 
proper  respect  to  that  crucial  document  by  avoiding 
interference in or damage or disruption to the sovereignty 
of independent States. We regretfully have to highlight 
the  fact  that  the  issue  of  human  rights  nowadays  has 
become  the  way  some  powerful  nations  strive  to 
impose  civilization  on  other  nations,  or,  according  to 
their  operating  standards,  as  a  pretext  for  interfering 
in the name of protecting political rights. As a result, 
the  imposition  of  unilateral  sanctions  has  become  a 
popular  weapon  that  powerful  nations  use  to  manage 
their international politics, which are completely driven 
by their geopolitical agendas.
That is nothing more than the use of brutal force by 
a particular State to impose its will on other sovereign 
States.  In  a  world  where  the  eras  of  imperialism  and 
colonialism are now behind us, we have to acknowledge 
that  not  all  nations  in  the  General  Assembly  should 
follow the governing model of any particular country. 
Large  countries  should  not  attempt  to  impose  their 
administrative  systems  on  small  countries  because 
those small countries are sovereign and have legitimate 
aspirations  to  upholding  their  own  identities.  Today, 
when  interdependence  is  key,  the  old-style  coercive 
mindset needs to be put to rest. Together, both large and 
small  countries  must  respect  one  another  and  uphold 
the  rules  of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations.
The  world  is  currently  facing  severe  instability. 
Threats  to  peace  are  emerging  in  many  forms,  and 
more  intensively  than  anything  we  have  witnessed  in 
18-30104
45/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
the  past  25  years.  We  all  live  in  a  world  of  fragility, 
unpredictability 
as 
challenges come from various fronts, with an increase 
in the number of persistent conflicts and unprecedented 
humanitarian crises.
complicated 
changes, 
and 
We are deeply concerned about the tensions created 
in diplomatic circles by a first-world super-Power and 
the conflicts that are happening in many places thanks 
to  its  interference.  We  are  also  deeply  concerned 
about the hasty decisions made by that super-Power to 
withdraw  from  major  international  agreements.  Such 
unilateral actions, which threaten the legitimacy of the 
international  legal  order,  have  undermined  State-to-
State relations and caused tension in the international 
community.  Yet  what  exerts  the  most  pressure  is  the 
direct attack on multilateralism.
Undoubtedly,  in  our  globalized  world,  all  things 
are interconnected. If we begin to endorse protectionist 
policies,  unilateralism  and  trade  wars,  we  are  closing 
the door on trade and investment opportunities, which, 
for  many  decades,  have  brought  prosperity  to  all  our 
countries, both small and large. Eventually, we will all 
become  poorer,  our  economies  will  decline,  financial 
capital  will  shrink,  and  our  ability  to  achieve  the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and address the 
challenges caused by climate change will be seriously 
affected. Those factors will make poor countries suffer 
prolonged poverty, making us increasingly vulnerable 
to the dangerous ideology of terrorism and extremism 
and to regional conflicts.
As  a  small  economy,  Cambodia  believes  in  the 
value of rules-based international cooperation. We have 
all prospered because of globalization. We are therefore 
convinced that global trade should not be hindered by 
the  imposition  of  unilateral  tariffs.  Rather,  it  should 
be  enhanced  and  supported  through  the  adherence  to 
policies conducive to trade and investment, as well as 
through  special  preferential  treatment  for  developing 
countries. Stability and diversification in the financial 
sector  need  to  be  further  encouraged  to  promote 
innovation and development.
All in all, we must jointly maintain and strengthen 
multilateralism.  In  fact,  peace  without  development 
is  not  sustainable.  In  that  context,  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals play a pivotal role in guiding peoples 
towards  prosperity.  Cambodia  views  the  SDGs  as  an 
important opportunity for mobilizing efforts aimed at 
reducing poverty, as well as sustainable and inclusive 
development. The Royal Government of Cambodia will 
soon approve the Cambodia Sustainable Development 
Goals, which have been fully adapted to the local level. 
We will use those goals to shape our medium- and long-
term policies and plans for our country.
Moreover,  conflict  prevention  is  a  precondition 
for  long-lasting  peace.  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
forces  play  a  vital  leading  role  in  such  efforts.  As 
a  result,  Cambodia  greatly  welcomes  the  vision  of 
Secretary-General  António  Guterres  with  respect 
to  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping,  particularly  his 
ongoing  attention  to  conflict  prevention.  Cambodia 
has been a consistent supporter of the United Nations 
peace and security architectures. For instance, for the 
past  12  years,  Cambodia  has  sent  thousands  of  Blue 
Helmet forces to join peacekeeping missions under the 
umbrella of the United Nations. However, peacekeeping 
today 
is  facing  unprecedented  challenges,  since 
non-State  actors  are  waging  wars  of  rebellion  against 
our  peacekeeping  forces.  Those  wars  have  claimed 
many  lives  and  caused  much  injury.  We  are  strongly 
indebted to the sacrifices made by the United Nations 
peacekeeping heroes. Indeed, their sacrifice, including 
the  ultimate  example  —  death  —  has  only  increased 
our  commitment  to  further  contributing  to  the  great 
cause of peace.
threat 
Another 
severe  and  complicated 
to 
long-lasting  peace  is  terrorism.  It  has  torn  apart 
communities,  worsened  conflicts  and  undermined 
the  stability  of  whole  regions.  Currently,  the  battles 
against terrorism have become even more complex and 
sophisticated, since terrorists are turning to cyberspace 
to launch their malevolent operations. The cross-border 
nature of terrorism requires that we build multilateral 
cooperation  with  concerted  coordination,  including 
countermeasures and preventive measures.
Addressing climate change is another key element 
for  the  success  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development,  which  requires  the  urgent  and  focused 
attention  of  the  global  community.  The  fundamentals 
for action on climate change are undoubtedly contained 
in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. In that spirit, 
Cambodia  will  provide  full  support  to  the  Secretary-
General in organizing the climate summit next year so 
as  to  foster  the  inspiration  needed  to  further  address 
climate change.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  Cambodia 
fully  supports  the  global  leadership  of  the  United 
46/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
Nations  and  commits  to  implementing  its  shared 
responsibility to build a peaceful and equitable society 
that enjoys sustainable and inclusive development.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Cambodia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo Hun Sen, 
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia, was 
escorted from the rostrum.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Russian Federation.
Mr.  Lavrov 
in 
Russian): The statements delivered during this session’s 
general debate confirm that international relations are 
now  being  conducted  in  a  complex  and  controversial 
period of history.
(Russian  Federation) 
(spoke 
Today, we are all witnessing two opposing trends 
collide.  On  the  one  hand,  we  see  the  strengthening 
of  polycentric  principles  of  world  order,  the  steady 
development  of  new  centres  of  economic  growth  and 
peoples’  aspirations  to  preserve  their  sovereignty  and 
choose  development  models  that  are  consistent  with 
their national, cultural and religious identities. On the 
other hand, we see the desire of a number of Western 
States  to  retain  their  self-proclaimed  status  as  world 
leaders and slow the irreversible and objective process 
of  establishing  multipolarity.  To  that  end,  they  do 
not  hesitate  to  use  every  possible  method,  including 
political blackmail, economic pressure and brute force.
Such  illegal  actions  devalue  the  international 
law that underpins the post-war world order. We hear 
statements trumpeted that not only call into question the 
legal validity of international treaties, but also prioritize 
self-serving unilateral approaches over decisions made 
within  the  United  Nations.  We  are  seeing  an  assault 
by  belligerent  revisionism  on  the  modern  system  of 
international law. There have been attacks on the basic 
principles of the Middle East peace process, the Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  on  the  Iranian  nuclear 
programme,  commitments  under  the  framework  of 
the  World  Trade  Organization,  the  multilateral  Paris 
Agreement on Climate Change and many more.
At the same time, our Western colleagues continue 
to seek to replace the supremacy of law in world affairs 
with  some  kind  of  so-called  rules-based  order.  Those 
rules  themselves  are  invented  depending  on  whatever 
is  politically  expedient  and  are  a  reflection  of  double 
standards.  Baseless  accusations  of  interference  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  various  countries  are  being  made 
alongside  overt  attempts  to  undermine  and  topple 
democratically elected Governments. Efforts are being 
made  to  draw  some  countries  into  military  alliances 
that are designed to further specific agendas against the 
will of the peoples of those countries, while other States 
are threatened with punishment for their free choice of 
partners and allies. It is telling that aggressive attacks 
on international institutions are being accompanied by 
attempts  to  privatize  their  secretariat  structures  and 
grant  them  the  rights  of  intergovernmental  bodies  in 
the hope of manipulating them later.
The shrinking space for constructive international 
cooperation,  escalating  confrontations,  a  growing 
overall lack of predictability, and a substantially higher 
risk of spontaneous conflicts all affect the work of this 
global  Organization.  The  international  community 
has to pay a high price for the parochial, self-serving 
ambitions of a small group of countries. The collective 
mechanisms  for  responding 
to  common  security 
challenges  have  stalled.  Diplomacy  and  a  culture  of 
negotiation and compromise are increasingly replaced 
by  dictates  and  unilateral  extraterritorial  restrictions 
effected  without  the  consent  of  the  Security  Council. 
Such  measures,  which  have  already  been  applied  to 
dozens of countries, are ineffective as well as illegal, 
as  demonstrated  by  the  more  than  half-century  of 
the  United  States  blockade  of  Cuba,  which  has  been 
condemned by the entire international community.
Once  again,  however,  the  lessons  are  not  being 
drawn  from  history.  The  number  of  those  who  want 
to hand down verdicts without bothering with charges 
or trials is not getting any smaller. Today assumptions 
in the spirit of the notorious “highly likely” approach 
seem  to  provide  sufficient  grounds  for  some  of  our 
Western colleagues to make accusations against anyone 
they want to. We have already been through that, and 
we  well  remember  how  often  spurious  pretexts  have 
been used to justify interventions and unleash wars, as 
was the case in Yugoslavia in 1999, Iraq in 2003 and 
Libya  in  2011.  The  same  methods  are  being  used  in 
Syria today. On 14 April, missile strikes were launched 
against  Syria  on  a  completely  invented  pretext,  just 
hours before international inspectors were expected to 
arrive  at  the  site  of  an  incident  that  had  been  staged. 
This  is  a  warning  against  any  further  provocations 
18-30104
47/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
by  terrorists  and  their  patrons  involving  the  use  of 
chemical weapons, which would be unacceptable.
egotism, disregard for international law and attempts to 
solve problems at others’ expense.
The conflict in Syria has already lasted seven years. 
The failed attempt to effect regime change, which was 
orchestrated  from  outside  and  relied  on  extremists, 
nearly resulted in the country’s disintegration and the 
emergence of a terrorist caliphate in its place. Russia’s 
energetic  action,  in  response  to  the  request  of  the 
Government of the Syrian Arab Republic and supported 
by  diplomatic  efforts  in  the  context  of  the  Astana 
process,  helped  prevent  that  devastating  scenario. 
The  Syrian  National  Dialogue  Congress,  initiated  by 
Russia, Iran and Turkey in Sochi in January, established 
the  conditions  for  a  political  settlement  in  line  with 
Security Council resolution 2254 (2015), and the basis 
for  the  intra-Syrian  constitutional  committee  now 
being  established  in  Geneva.  Its  agenda  includes  the 
restoration of ruined infrastructure in order to facilitate 
the  return  of  millions  of  refugees  to  their  homes. 
Assistance in addressing those issues in the interest of 
all Syrians, without double standards, must become a 
priority  for  international  efforts  and  the  activities  of 
United Nations agencies.
Despite  the  complexity  of  the  situation  in  Syria, 
Iraq,  Yemen  and  Libya,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of 
the  long-standing  Palestinian  question.  A  just  and 
equitable solution to that issue is crucial to improving 
the  situation  throughout  the  Middle  East.  I  want  to 
warn  against  any  unilateral  approaches  in  this  area 
or  attempts  to  monopolize  this  peace  process.  Today, 
as  never  before,  the  international  community  should 
consolidate its efforts with the aim of restarting talks 
on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions 
and the Arab Peace Initiative. Russia will continue to 
do its utmost to facilitate the process, including within 
the  Middle  East  Quartet  and  in  cooperation  with  the 
League of Arab States and the Organization of Islamic 
Cooperation.  Mutually  acceptable  agreements  must 
ensure  the  peaceful  and  safe  coexistence  of  the  two 
States of Israel and Palestine.
Here at the United Nations, which was created on 
the  basis  of  lessons  learned  from  the  Second  World 
War,  we  must  all  think  about  a  future  in  which  the 
repetition of past mistakes should have no place. This 
year  marks  the  eightieth  anniversary  of  the  notorious 
Munich  agreement  crowning  the  criminal  policy  of 
appeasement of the Third Reich, a sad example of the 
catastrophic consequences that can result from national 
Regrettably, in a number of countries today not only 
has the vaccine against the Nazi plague been weakened, 
but a rising campaign to rewrite history and whitewash 
war  criminals  and  their  associates  is  emerging.  In 
our  view,  the  campaigns  being  waged  in  a  number  of 
countries  to  demolish  monuments  to  the  liberators  of 
Europe  are  an  outrage.  We  call  on  the  Assembly  to 
support  the  draft  of  this  year’s  versin  of  the  annual 
resolution on the inadmissibility of glorification of the 
Nazis.
The growth of radical nationalism and neo-fascism 
in Ukraine, where criminals who fought under Waffen-
SS  banners  have  been  declared  heroes,  is  one  of  the 
main factors in the protracted intra-Ukrainian conflict. 
The  only  way  to  settle  that  conflict  is  to  ensure  the 
comprehensive and consistent implementation in good 
faith  of  the  Minsk  package  of  measures,  approved 
unanimously by the Security Council in its resolution 
2202  (2015).  We  support  the  activities  of  the  Special 
Monitoring Mission to Ukraine of the Organization for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  and  are  ready  to 
provide its monitors with United Nations protection.
However,  instead  of  implementing  the  Minsk 
agreements and engaging in dialogue with Donetsk and 
Luhansk, Kyiv continues to harbour the illusion that it 
may  be  able  to  put  occupying  forces  in  Donbas  with 
the support of the West and is increasingly threatening 
to  resort  to  military  options.  The  sponsors  of  the 
current Kyiv authorities must bring their clients to their 
senses, make them lift the blockade of Donbas and end 
discrimination  against  ethnic  minorities  throughout 
Ukraine.
In  Kosovo,  the  international  military  presence 
authorized by the Security Council is being transformed 
into a United States military base, and Kosovo armed 
forces  are  being  created.  The  agreements  between 
Belgrade and Pristina brokered by the European Union 
are not being implemented. Russia calls on the parties 
to engage in dialogue in accordance with the principles 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1244  (1999)  and  will 
support a decision that would be acceptable for Serbia. 
In general, we urge that the Balkans not be once again 
transformed into an arena for confrontation or declared 
to  be  someone’s  particular  patrimony.  The  peoples  of 
the Balkans must not be forced to face a false choice, 
48/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
and we must prevent new dividing lines from emerging 
in the region.
the our partners’ counterarguments and seek a balance 
of interests.
We  need  to  shape  an  architecture  of  equal  and 
indivisible  security  elsewhere  in  the  world,  including 
the  Asia-Pacific  region.  We  welcome  the  positive 
developments  on  the  Korean  peninsula  following  the 
logic of the Russian-Chinese road map. It is important 
to  encourage  that  process,  which  should  be  based  on 
continuing  the  rapprochement  between  the  parties 
and on promoting the practical implementation of the 
important  arrangements  arrived  at  by  Pyongyang  and 
Seoul through the Security Council. We will continue 
to  work  to  launch  a  multilateral  process  aimed  at 
establishing a robust mechanism for peace and security 
in North-East Asia as soon as possible.
The  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  is 
among the tasks before the international community in 
the key security area of the non-proliferation of weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  Regrettably,  serious  obstacles  to 
that track continue to pile up. The unilateral withdrawal 
by the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan 
of  Action,  in  violation  of  Security  Council  resolution 
2231  (2015),  and  despite  Iran’s  full  compliance  with 
its obligations, came on top of the lack of progress in 
the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty and the establishment of a zone free of weapons 
of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  We  will  do 
everything  possible  to  preserve  the  deal  approved  by 
the Security Council.
We  are  seeing  increasingly  negative  trends  in 
the  activities  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition 
of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW)  whereby  the  West  is 
attempting to transform the Technical Secretariat into 
an instrument for punishing undesirable Governments, 
which  risks  compromising  the  OPCW’s  independent 
professional  status,  the  universality  of  the  Chemical 
Weapons  Convention  and  the  exclusive  prerogatives 
of the Security Council. Those and other problems in 
the area of non-proliferation were discussed in detail in 
the Security Council on 26 September (see S/PV.8362), 
convened at a very timely moment by the United States 
presidency.
We  firmly  believe  that  any  problems  or  concerns 
that arise in international relations should be addressed 
through a substantive dialogue. If there are any bones 
of  contention,  we  should  come  together  around  the 
negotiating  table,  engage  in  talks,  present  facts,  heed 
In the past couple of years, the debate on abuses in 
cyberspace  has  become  more  intense.  I  would  like  to 
draw attention to the fact that it was Russia that initiated 
discussion of international information-security issues 
at the United Nations 20 years ago. Against the backdrop 
of recent developments, it is becoming ever more urgent 
that under the auspices of the United Nations we should 
develop  global  rules  for  the  responsible  behaviour  of 
States  in  cyberspace,  including  the  principles  of  the 
non-use of force, non-interference in internal affairs and 
respect for State sovereignty. We intend to introduce a 
draft  resolution  to  that  effect  in  the  First  Committee. 
We also believe that it is important to start work on a 
convention on cybercrime, and we envisage holding the 
relevant discussions in the Third Committee.
It  is  more  essential  than  ever  to  seek  mutually 
acceptable  agreements  and  the  mutual  consideration 
of interests in the areas of global trade and economic 
relations,  which  today  are  being  subjected  to  an 
unprecedented  degree  of  politicization.  The  values  of 
free  trade  are  being  held  hostage  to  trade  wars  and 
other forms of unfair competition.
Russia  has  consistently  promoted  a  philosophy 
of  shared  economic  development,  as  enshrined  in 
the  Greater  Eurasian  Partnership  initiative  launched 
by  President  Vladimir  Putin,  a  large-scale  project 
open  to  all  Asian  and  European  States  regardless  of 
their  membership  in  other  integration  associations.  If 
consistently implemented, it could help to develop a the 
space for extensive economic cooperation in Eurasia. In 
the long term, it could lay the foundations for a renewed 
continental security architecture fit for the realities of 
the twenty-first century.
Russia will continue to do its utmost to build a world 
based on law, truth and justice, and we are not alone in 
that aspiration. Together with us, our allies and partners 
in  the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization,  the 
Eurasian  Economic  Community,  the  Commonwealth 
of  Independent  States,  the  Shanghai  Cooperation 
Organization,  the  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China  and 
South  Africa  (BRICS)  group  and  an  overwhelming 
majority  of  other  countries  are  advocating  for  the 
democratization  of  all  aspects  of  international  affairs 
and in the interests of all States, without exception. The 
West  should  also  heed  that  voice,  which  is  becoming 
18-30104
49/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
more  and  more  evident  in  the  activities  of  the  Group 
of 20.
In  today’s  turbulent  circumstances,  the  growing 
relevance  of  the  United  Nations  —  the  only  existing 
forum  for  overcoming  differences  and  coordinating 
the activities of the international community — is an 
objective reality. Cooperation, with a view to arriving 
at broadly acceptable solutions, was a priority built into 
the  foundations  of  the  United  Nations  from  the  very 
start. Today we must not fail to live up to the high goals 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
its dedication by the drafters to future generations.
We should recall the art of negotiation in order to 
be  worthy  of  their  legacy.  Many  of  today’s  problems 
can  be  solved  only  on  a  basis  of  equality  and  mutual 
respect. Dictates and coercion, hallmarks of the era of 
colonialism,  should  once  and  for  all  be  filed  away  in 
the archives or, better yet, consigned to the dustbin of 
history.
Some great statesmen of the past have bequeathed 
to  us  many  words  of  wisdom  that  have  come  to  be 
aphorisms. Let me quote just one, from President Harry 
Truman:  “The  responsibility  of  the  great  States  is  to 
serve and not to dominate the world”.
I hope that a culture of mutually respectful dialogue 
will finally prevail. Russia will do everything it can to 
achieve that.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Heiko Maas, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Mr.  Maas  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  A  veteran 
of  United  Nations  diplomacy  recently  told  me  that 
every  session  of  the  General  Assembly  has  its  own 
crisis  to  discuss,  its  own  major  topic.  So  what  is  the 
big  issue  in  2018?  Syria?  North  Korea?  The  Middle 
East? Or the dramatic global refugee situation, from the 
Mediterranean to Venezuela?
If  we  take  a  step  back,  those  disparate  conflicts 
reveal a bigger picture and a distinct pattern. It becomes 
clear  that  we  are  indeed  facing  a  crisis  —  a  crisis 
of  multilateralism.  And  that  crisis  makes  conflicts 
around  the  world  appear  insoluble.  When  I  say  that 
they “appear” insoluble, that reflects the faith that we 
Germans have in multilateralism. Germany’s post-war 
success story is also multilateralism’s success story.
to 
integrate 
Europe, which was scarred by war and destruction, 
was  able 
in  freedom,  security  and 
prosperity  thanks  to  our  neighbours’  courage  in 
seeking  reconciliation.  The  United  States  also  played 
a crucial role in Europe’s reconstruction. The fact that 
Europe was then able to become the closest partner of 
the United Nations is a triumph of multilateralism. We 
believe  in  the  United  Nations  because  international 
cooperation changed our own fate for the better.
Europe has proved to the world that multilateralism 
and  sovereignty  are  not  mutually  exclusive.  On  the 
contrary,  in  a  world  faced  with  immense  global 
problems,  we  can  safeguard  sovereignty  only  by 
working together.
Three  words,  “we  the  peoples”,  express  both 
our  goal  and  how  we  will  achieve  it.  That  is  why  the 
founders  of  the  United  Nations  chose  those  as  the 
opening  words  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
They wanted to spell out that we need to work together 
to find solutions. They wanted to leave no doubt as to 
whom the United Nations and we as representatives of 
States serve — the people.
The Charter’s promises are addressed to the people, 
who are assured that their freedom and dignity will be 
defended at the United Nations in New York. But does 
a boy in Idlib, who lives in constant fear of the next air 
strike, feel that? How does a girl in Africa feel when 
her  life  expectancy  at  birth  is  30  years  lower  than  it 
would be if she were born in Germany? If we do not act 
on their behalf, “we the peoples” will be nothing more 
than  hollow  words  for  them.  Kofi  Annan  once  said, 
“We  don’t  need  any  more  promises.  We  need  to  start 
keeping the promises we already made.” (SG/SM/9095)
When  Germany  joins  the  Security  Council  as 
a  non-permanent  member  in  a  few  weeks’  time,  that 
will be what motivates us. I thank the members of the 
Assembly for the immense trust they have shown in us 
through their votes. That trust is an incentive for us to 
play our part in tackling the world’s crises, and to do 
so with courage and hope, but without overestimating 
ourselves. We want to work with all Member States as 
a  reliable  partner  putting  dialogue  and  cooperation  at 
the  heart  of  its  action.  In  our  view,  “we  the  peoples” 
refers in particular to those who find it hard to be heard 
at the United Nations. That means we will always seek 
dialogue with civil society, in the Security Council and 
beyond.
50/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
Nevertheless, “we the peoples” also means that the 
Security Council itself must become more representative 
and  inclusive.  The  world’s  population  has  more  than 
tripled since 1945, while the number of States Members 
of the United Nations has almost quadrupled. Yet the 
Security Council has hardly changed at all. That is why 
we  should  stop  beating  around  the  bush  and  finally 
start real negotiations on Security Council reform, as 
the vast majority of Member States have wanted for a 
long time.
The  crisis  of  multilateralism  is  most  painfully 
evident in Syria. The civil war has long since turned into 
a  widespread  regional  conflict,  with  further  potential 
for escalation in an already ravaged part of the world. 
That sort of war cannot be resolved by military means, 
because the players in the region are too deeply involved 
and the individual stakes are too high. However, with 
united diplomatic efforts, we have managed to prevent 
escalation  in  Idlib,  which  is  a  glimmer  of  hope.  The 
agreement  between  Turkey  and  Russia  must  now  be 
permanently implemented. But ultimately, and at long 
last, we need a political process.
To that end, talks must be held under the auspices 
of  the  United  Nations.  In  resolution  2254  (2015),  the 
Security Council itself showed the way. We must finally 
take the path to free and fair elections. At that point, 
we  will  also  be  willing  to  shoulder  responsibility  for 
reconstruction. However, there is one line that we will 
not cross: we will not become accomplices to a regime 
that  has  forfeited  its  political  legitimacy.  Instead,  we 
are doing our utmost to alleviate people’s suffering.
It  is  shameful  that  financial  support  is  running 
out  once  again.  As  the  second-largest  humanitarian 
donor, Germany is willing to provide the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees with 
a  further  €116  million  —  that  is,  half  of  the  amount 
currently needed — to help Syrian refugees in Jordan 
and Lebanon. But others also need to step up. After all, 
the Charter talks about “we the peoples”.
Disruptive  foreign-policy  approaches  have  now 
also  reached  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  Many 
people are keen to make us believe that the notion of a 
negotiated two-State solution is obsolete. They want us 
to think that it is now merely a term used in diplomacy 
and  can  no  longer  be  achieved.  But  whatever  way 
they twist it, there will be lasting peace only if people 
can determine the course of their own lives, living in 
security  and  dignity  on  both  sides  of  the  1967  lines. 
For that very reason, it remains important to work for a 
negotiated two-State solution, 25 years after Oslo.
The  conflict  in  Ukraine  will  also  continue  to 
compel  our  attention.  Along  with  France,  Russia  and 
Ukraine, we are working hard to implement the Minsk 
agreements. The focus is on the measures agreed to a 
long time ago with a view to stabilizing the ceasefire. 
All  efforts,  including  our  discussions  on  a  possible 
United Nations mission in eastern Ukraine, are aimed 
at achieving that end.
Let  us  not  forget  that  acute  crisis  management 
is  at  best  a  step  towards  peace.  Lasting  peace  can  be 
achieved only if we put a stop to the arms race. That is 
not some sort of nostalgic rhetoric from the days of the 
Cold War, whose balance of terror seems utterly benign 
compared to the scenario of a multipolar arms race with 
far more unpredictable players.
In the case of North Korea, the Security Council’s 
united  stance  and  sanctions  helped  to  pave  the  way 
back to dialogue. That was important. However, North 
Korea  must  follow  up  its  words  with  deeds,  and  that 
must  lead  to  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible 
denuclearization.  Germany  is  prepared  to  contribute 
its know-how, including the expertise we gained during 
the difficult negotiations with Iran.
The nuclear agreement with Iran may not be perfect. 
But so far, it has prevented Iran from obtaining nuclear 
weapons  and  averted  an  escalation  that  was  highly 
likely  three  years  ago.  That  is  not  insignificant.  We 
Europeans, together, therefore stand by the agreement. 
We  are  working  on  keeping  economic  exchange  with 
Iran possible, and we call on Iran to continue to fully 
live up to its commitments. The fact that we stand by 
the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action does not mean 
that we are turning a blind eye to Iran’s destructive role 
in the region or to its ballistic-missile programme. That 
said, if there were no agreement, that would not make 
the search for solutions in Yemen, Syria or elsewhere 
any easier. On the contrary, disarmament, arms control 
and non-proliferation must generally become more of a 
focus of the work of the United Nations once again. We 
share  the  view  of  Secretary-General  Guterres  on  this 
matter.
Our shared rules must keep pace with technological 
developments.  Otherwise,  what  currently  sounds  like 
science  fiction  may  very  soon  become  deadly  reality, 
as  exemplified  by  autonomous  weapons  systems,  or 
killer robots that kill without any human control. I call 
18-30104
51/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
on Members to support, both here in New York and in 
Geneva, our initiative to ban fully autonomous weapons 
before it is too late.
It  is  not  only  in  that  domain  that  prevention  is 
the  right  answer.  The  United  Nations  of  the  twenty-
first  century  must  tackle  the  root  causes  of  conflict, 
including  climate  change.  Action  based  solely  on 
nationalism,  with  each  country  seeking  to  put  itself 
first, reaches its limits in that respect, not least because 
our  climate  knows  no  borders.  The  alarm  bells  have 
rarely sounded as loudly as they did in the summer of 
2018 in almost all parts of the world.
Germany  and  the  European  Union  stand  by  the 
Paris  Agreement.  Moreover,  we  want  to  ensure  that 
the Security Council makes the devastating effects that 
climate  change  can  have  on  the  security  and  stability 
of entire countries and regions an even greater priority.
We  also  need  a  quantum  leap  when  it  comes  to 
post-conflict peacebuilding. That is why Germany will 
contribute  at  least  €25  million  to  the  Peacebuilding 
Fund this year. Over the past three years, Germany has 
tripled its contributions to efforts aimed at promoting 
stabilization  and  preventing  crises  around  the  world. 
For  example,  in  Iraq,  where  Islamic  State  terrorists 
have mostly been militarily defeated, instead of leaving 
the  Iraqi  authorities  to  fend  for  themselves,  we  are 
training  security  forces  to  support  administrative 
structures  and  providing  civil  support  for  efforts  to 
promote  stabilization,  reconciliation  and  inclusive 
reconstruction.
Only  when  military  measures  are  embedded  in  a 
clear  political  strategy  can  peacekeepers  truly  bring 
peace.  That  is  also  the  objective  of  the  peacekeeping 
reform efforts of Secretary-General Guterres. It would 
be a mistake to limit our discussion to bartering over 
decimal  points  in  scales  for  assessed  contributions. 
Of course efficiency is important, including for us in 
Europe,  who  are  the  largest  contributors  of  funding. 
However,  discussing  potential  cost  savings  alone 
does  not  do  justice  to  the  benefits  that  peacekeeping 
missions bring, for example, in countries such as Mali 
or  Lebanon,  which  have  held  peaceful  elections  and 
enjoyed  relative  stability,  thanks  in  part  to  the  Blue 
Helmets and the political efforts of the United Nations.
We Germans will continue to contribute, not only 
militarily and financially but also, always, politically, 
through diplomatic efforts and by investing in stability 
and  reconstruction.  After  all,  the  success  of  United 
Nations  missions  hinges  on  the  political  backing  of 
Member States. That is particularly true for Libya right 
now. To tackle the Herculean task of making progress 
on  functioning  State  structures,  the  United  Nations 
needs our political support.
Peace  is  more  than  guns  falling  silent.  Only  just 
societies, societies where men and women enjoy equal 
rights  and  where  women  participate  in  all  societal 
decision-making,  will  remain  peaceful  in  the  long 
term. It is not only a matter of fairness and respect; it is 
simply a question of humanity and reason. Kofi Annan 
put it this way in his report entitled “In larger freedom: 
towards  development,  security  and  human  rights  for 
all”:
“we  will  not  enjoy  development  without  security, 
we  will  not  enjoy  security  without  development, 
and  we  will  not  enjoy  either  without  respect  for 
human rights” (A/59/2005, para. 17).
Seventy  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
instrument’s 
proclamation of dignity and personal freedom remains 
merely  a  distant  promise  for  many.  In  the  Security 
Council,  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, we will demand accountability when human 
rights are trampled on, be it through human trafficking 
in  Africa  or  attacks  on  the  Rohingya  in  Myanmar. 
Nowhere  will  impunity  stand.  Even  in  war,  there  are 
limits.
that 
We must hold to account those who wilfully attack 
humanitarian  aid  workers,  hospitals  and  schools. 
Anyone  who  violates  the  most  basic  rules  of  human 
civilization  must  be  punished.  That  also  applies  to 
those who use chemical weapons in breach of a taboo 
that  was  respected  for  decades.  That  is  why  it  is  so 
important that the Organization for the Prohibition of 
Chemical  Weapons  has  been  mandated  to  seek  and 
identify  those  responsible.  The  perpetrators  must  be 
fully  aware  that  there  can  be  no  impunity  for  crimes 
against humanity — never, and not anywhere. In that 
regard,  the  International  Criminal  Court  remains 
indispensable  because  it  sends  a  clear  message  to  the 
victims and the perpetrators of the most serious crimes 
that justice will prevail.
Earlier, I spoke about how we Germans in particular 
have faith when it comes to multilateralism. That faith is 
also based on the fact that the United Nations, time and 
again and despite all disagreements, delivers proof of 
what we can achieve by working together. I am thinking 
52/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
remains our guiding set of principles for making this a 
better world for all people. I am also thinking about the 
successful conclusion of the negotiations on the global 
compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular  migration.  The 
fact that more than 190 Member States — countries of 
origin,  transit  and  destination  —  reached  agreement 
on such complex and controversial issues is a victory 
for multilateralism. That success is an achievement of 
nations that are truly united.
The United Nations is built on our courage to reach 
compromises. The Organization grows with our desire 
to  shape  things.  It  thrives  on  our  common  pledge  to 
act together first. Common ground is created when we 
put  people  at  the  heart  of  what  we  do.  The  desire  for 
peace and security, and the dream of a prosperous and 
dignified  life,  are  things  that  all  people  can  relate  to, 
whether they live in Baghdad, Berlin or Bamako. The 
United Nations belongs to the people. It is to them — the 
peoples of “We the peoples” — that we owe allegiance.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Khemais Jhinaoui, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of Tunisia.
Mr.  Jhinaoui  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, it gives me pleasure to congratulate Ms. María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  and  her  friendly  country, 
Ecuador,  on  her  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at the current session. I wish her success in 
that noble task. I also want to express my appreciation to 
Mr. Miroslav Lajčák and his friendly country, Slovakia, 
for his successful leadership of the previous session.
I would be remiss not to express my appreciation 
for the efforts of Secretary-General António Guterres 
to  promote  the  role  of  the  Organization  in  achieving 
security, peace and development throughout the world, 
and  our  appreciation  and  support  for  the  reforms  and 
initiatives that he has undertaken since assuming office.
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our 
sincere condolences to the family of the late Kofi Annan, 
former Secretary-General of the United Nations, and to 
the African continent, recalling his invaluable work in 
the  service  of  international  peace  and  security  while 
supporting human rights and contributing effectively to 
the Organization’s development and reform.
The theme of this session — “Making the United 
Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and 
shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable societies” — reflects our shared aspirations 
for  a  global  organization  capable  of  effectively 
addressing current challenges. It also underscores our 
joint  desire  to  enhance  the  Organization’s  role  in  the 
service  of  peace  and  security,  while  building  more 
equitable  and  effective  international  relations  and 
strengthening sustainable development efforts.
We believe that tackling those challenges is a matter 
of joint responsibility, calling for intense and concerted 
efforts to eradicate hotbeds of tension, armed conflicts 
and  disputes,  as  well  as  the  unprecedented  human 
suffering  they  inflict.  Those  hotbeds  also  exacerbate 
the phenomenon of terrorism and violent extremism, as 
well as all forms of organized crime, in addition to a 
decline  in  growth  rates  and  increases  in  poverty  and 
marginalization,  together  with  economic  recession  in 
many parts of the world.
In that regard, Tunisia reaffirms the responsibility 
of  the  international  community,  as  represented  in 
our  Organization,  to  pursue  the  political  settlement 
of  ongoing  disputes,  resolve  conflicts  by  peaceful 
means,  achieve  security  and  stability  and  promote 
human  rights  for  the  sake  of  safe  and  sustainable 
societies.  While  we  are  pleased  with  the  results  of 
the  negotiations  on  the  major  reforms  initiated  by 
the  Secretary-General,  particularly  in  reviewing  the 
international  system  pertaining  to  security  and  peace 
and  promoting  development  on  a  regular  basis,  we 
hope that those reforms will be supported by effective 
contributions  from  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  in  accordance  with  a  comprehensive  vision 
that  entrenches  the  principles  of  partnership  and 
equality in international relations, as well as equitable 
representation on the Security Council, while enabling 
the General Assembly to take on its full responsibilities 
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. 
True to the firm principles of our foreign policy, Tunisia 
will spare no effort in working to effectively contribute 
to the efforts to realize those noble objectives.
continues 
to 
Tunisia 
steadfastly 
enhance 
democratic  governance  and  a  State  based  on  law  and 
institutions  through  a  consensual  and  participatory 
approach  across  the  political  spectrum  and  every 
sector  of  Tunisian  society.  Over  the  past  year,  we 
have  taken  further  steps  to  strengthen  constitutional 
institutions and fight corruption while enhancing good 
governance. We held democratic municipal elections in 
May to operationalize the very important constitutional 
principle of participatory democracy and decentralized 
18-30104
53/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
local  governance.  Through  that  principle,  we  hope  to 
promote  local  development  programmes  and  reduce 
disparities between entities.
Like the presidential and legislative elections held 
in  2014,  those  municipal  elections  resulted  in  a  high 
level  of  representation  of  young  people  and  women, 
reflecting  an  awareness  in  Tunisian  society  of  the 
importance  of  including  women  and  young  people  in 
decision-making at the local and national levels.
Based on our belief in human rights and fundamental 
freedoms  as  two  of  the  pillars  of  democracy,  and  in 
accordance  with  our  international  commitments  and 
the  provisions  of  the  2014  Constitution,  President 
Béji  Caïd  Essebsi  of  Tunisia  has  launched  a  reform 
initiative to enhance equality and the status of women, 
with  a  dedicated  committee  established  to  that  end. 
That initiative is currently subject to a comprehensive 
dialogue  engaging  participants  from  across  Tunisian 
society. As such, it is a natural extension of Tunisia’s 
pioneering experiment in reforms aimed at establishing 
a progressive society that respects individual rights and 
collective  freedoms,  empowers  women  and  achieves 
full equality between men and women.
We  are  aware  that  enhancing  and  sustaining  the 
emerging sustainable democratic experience in Tunisia 
are  contingent  on  achieving  economic  recovery, 
addressing  our  current  difficulties  and  strengthening 
social  harmony.  Those  are  priority  objectives  for  our 
Government,  in  line  with  our  2016-2020  national 
development  plan  and  in  the  context  of  implementing 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Tunisia  remains  committed  to  pursuing  major 
reform  to  improve  growth  rates  and  other  human 
development indicators, in particular by creating work 
opportunities for young people and promoting internal 
and  external  investment.  Despite  major  security  and 
development  challenges,  including  the  destabilization 
of  the  regional  and  international  situations  and  its 
direct effect on Tunisia’s security, growth and economic 
interests, we recently recorded positive and encouraging 
results  —  rising  growth,  falling  unemployment  and 
trade deficits, and recovery in the tourism sector, with 
an  increase  in  investment  indicators.  We  believe  that 
those positive indicators enhance Tunisia’s status as an 
attractive  environment  for  regional  and  international 
investment.
Tunisia  depends  not  only  on  its  own  national 
capabilities but also on strong relations of cooperation 
regional  and 
and  partnership  with 
international 
partners. We would like to affirm our appreciation for 
the support that the Tunisian experiment has received 
from our long-standing friends and partners the world 
over and to stress our interest in further expanding such 
cooperative partnerships to serve our shared interests 
and  strengthen  security  and  stability  nationally  and 
internationally.
Terrorism  represents  one  of  the  most  prominent 
challenges  to  our  countries,  with  no  exceptions.  It  is 
also one of the gravest challenges to international peace 
and security. Terrorist organizations seek to destabilize 
countries, spread chaos and obstruct development. To 
confront  that  threat,  we  underscore  the  central  role 
played  by  the  United  Nations  in  supporting  Member 
States in eliminating terrorism and violent extremism. 
In  that  regard,  we  consider  the  establishment  of  the 
Office of Counter-Terrorism an important step for better 
coordinating and enhancing multilateral cooperation in 
that area.
regional 
and 
While  national, 
international 
efforts  to  combat  terrorist  activities  are  important, 
we  believe  it  is  an  equally  important  priority  to 
tackle  extremist  ideologies  and  protect  our  societies, 
particularly young people, against secrecy and extreme 
violence. We also stress the importance of supporting 
international cooperation mechanisms for the exchange 
of  information,  expertise  and  judicial  assistance  and 
providing  support  to  countries  at  the  forefront  of 
combating that scourge.
Tunisia  has  made 
significant  progress 
in 
implementing 
its  comprehensive  national  strategy 
to  combat  terrorism  and  violent  extremism,  which 
has  helped  us  to  realize  security  gains  in  terms  of 
tackling  that  dangerous  scourge,  thwarting  terrorist 
plots,  bringing  terrorists  to  justice  and  safeguarding 
democracy while respecting the rule of law
related  human 
In  recent  years,  the  world  has  witnessed  an 
unprecedented  upsurge  in  flows  of  refugees  and 
migrants  resulting  from  protracted  crises,  worsening 
armed  conflicts  and 
suffering, 
disrupted  security,  hampered  development  and  a  lack 
of  the  conditions  necessary  for  a  decent  life.  Despite 
its  increase  in  recent  years,  migration  remains  one 
of  the  principal  manifestations    of  interaction  and 
communication  among  human  societies.  Throughout 
history,  it  has  contributed  to  rapprochement  among 
cultures  and  civilizations.  We  believe  that  tackling 
54/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
migration and refugee flows requires a comprehensive 
and integrated approach that takes into account the root 
causes of the two issues and prioritizes the importance 
of providing a dignified life for refugees and migrants, 
respecting 
rights  and  human  dignity  and 
protecting them from criminal networks and all forms 
of exploitation.
their 
We must mobilize international efforts to address 
the  underlying  causes  of  migration,  including  the 
inadequate sustainable development in many countries 
of origin. There is also a need to address exacerbated 
conflicts  and  wars,  as  well  as  the  international 
community’s  failure 
the  gap  between 
developing and developed countries.
to  bridge 
Tunisia  hopes  that  the  two  United  Nations  global 
compacts on migration and refugees will pave the way 
to the international consensus needed on this issue. We 
underscore  the  importance  of  promoting  cooperation 
among all components of the international community 
in order to settle disputes and support the development 
efforts  of  Member  States,  as  well  as  of  promoting 
avenues for organized migration. While we understand 
the apprehension of some States, we emphasize the need 
to put a stop to hostile activities and practices against 
migrants  and  refugees  and  all  forms  of  extremism, 
including in political discourse and media campaigns, 
when addressing the issue.
in 
increased 
Continued conflicts and regional and international 
crises  unquestionably  result 
tension 
and  a  lack  of  stability  and  security.  In  that  respect, 
achieving  the  desired  just,  comprehensive  solution  to 
the Palestinian question is an urgent priority. It would 
enable us to restore peace and stability to the Middle 
East  region,  thereby  allowing  our  brother  Palestinian 
people to recover their legitimate rights and establish 
an  independent  State  of  Palestine  on  their  territory, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with 
resolutions of international legitimacy, the Arab Peace 
Initiative and a two-State solution.
Tunisia  calls  on  the  international  community  to 
shoulder  its  responsibility  to  provide  the  necessary 
protection  for  the  Palestinian  people  and  preserve 
the  legal  and  historical  status  of  the  city  of  Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif,  as  well  as  all  other  occupied  Palestinian 
territories. Tunisia has spared no effort within its own 
abilities  to  provide  support  to  the  Palestinian  people 
and implores the international community to redouble 
its  efforts  in  order  to  put  an  end  to    Palestinians’ 
humanitarian  suffering.  That  includes  supporting  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  so  that  it  can  continue  to 
provide assistance to Palestinian refugees.
Tunisia is deeply concerned about the developments 
in  Libya  and  the  serious  deterioration  of  the  security 
situation  in  its  capital,  Tripoli.  Tunisia  renews  its 
commitment to undertaking efforts — at the initiative 
of President Essebsi, and in full cooperation with our 
brother  countries  of  Egypt  and  Algeria  —  to  assist 
our  Libyan  brothers  in  overcoming  their  differences. 
Precedence should be given to Libya’s interests so that 
the desired political settlement can be achieved through 
dialogue and reconciliation on the basis of the Libyan 
Political Agreement, facilitated by the United Nations.
In that regard, Tunisia underscores its support for 
the United Nations Action Plan for Libya and calls for 
uniting all efforts to address the Libyan crisis, without 
interfering  in  Libyan  internal  affairs  and  avoiding 
military options, in order to achieve peace and security, 
lessen the suffering of the Libyan people and accelerate 
the implementation of the Action Plan.
We also call for regional and international efforts 
to be redoubled in order to arrive at a comprehensive 
political  solution  to  the  crisis  in  Syria  as  soon  as 
possible, in a way that preserves the unity and territorial 
integrity  of  that  brotherly  country  and  puts  an  end  to 
the suffering of the Syrian people while achieving their 
aspirations for security, stability and democracy.
We also hope that the international community will 
be able to help the parties in Yemen begin a dialogue 
in  order  to  arrive  at  a  political  solution  that  supports 
legitimacy while preserving the unity of that brotherly 
country, as well as its territorial integrity. We hope that 
such  a  solution  will  end  the  suffering  of  the  Yemeni 
people and guarantee the safety, security and stability 
of the Arab Gulf region.
Given our joint responsibility to ensure a universal 
system  for  the  promotion  of  human  rights  for  all, 
including  the  right  to  security  and  life,  we  call  for 
accelerating the efforts to address the issue of Rohingya 
Muslims while ensuring the safe and voluntary return 
of refugees and working to tackle the underlying causes 
of the crisis.
Considering  the  importance  with  which  we  view 
being part of the African continent, which represents our 
strategic depth, Tunisia supports joint African efforts. 
18-30104
55/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
In 
We are committed to the African Union’s Agenda 2063 
development plan and are ready to actively engage in 
advancing  the  continent’s  prospects.  We  would  also 
like to appeal to the international community to assist 
in  promoting  peace  and  security  on  the  continent  so 
that the peoples of Africa can achieve their aspirations 
for sustainable development and economic integration.
that  context,  Tunisia  greatly  appreciates 
the  agreement  between  the  leaders  of  Ethiopia  and 
Eritrea  to  end  the  long-standing  dispute  between  the 
two  countries.  It  has  given  new  impetus  to  bilateral 
cooperation  in  the  interests  of  the  two  neighbouring 
peoples  on  a  path  to  achieving  security,  stability  and 
development.  Tunisia  also  hopes  that  that  historic 
reconciliation between the two countries can be a first 
step  towards  ending  all  differences  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa region and setting an example to be followed in 
terms of eliminating tensions and settling disputes on 
the entire African continent.
With  regard 
to 
in 
the  situation 
the  Korean 
peninsula, we are pleased with the results of the recent 
summits between the President of South Korea and the 
leader of North Korea, as well as the summit between 
the  President  of  the  United  States  and  the  leader  of 
North  Korea.  We  note  the  historic  transformation  of 
the Korean peninsula and the commitment of the two 
Koreas  to  cooperating  in  the  future.  We  hope  that 
the  international  community  will  make  every  effort 
to  assist  both  countries  in  ending  tensions  on  the 
Korean peninsula and restoring trust between them by 
denuclearizing the peninsula and ridding it of weapons 
of mass destruction in order to achieve peace.
With Arab and African support, Tunisia is ready to 
join the Security Council once again as a non-permanent 
member for the period from 2020 to 2021. It is a goal 
that  we  hope  to  achieve  with  the  support  of  all  our 
friends and partners in the international community. If 
elected, Tunisia will work throughout its membership of 
the Council to ensure its commitment to the Charter of 
the United Nations, as well as its readiness to promote 
consultations. We would emphasize the importance of 
arriving at acceptable solutions to all the items on our 
agenda in the service of world peace and security.
In conclusion, I reiterate Tunisia’s commitment to 
continue  to  make  every  possible  effort  to  cooperate 
with  all  sisterly  and  friendly  countries  in  order  to 
achieve  the  noble  objectives  of  the  United  Nations  in 
the service of humankind in order to uphold those lofty 
universal values.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Ibrahim Abdulkarim Al-Jafari, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Iraq.
Mr.  Al-Jafari  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  it  is  my  pleasure  to  congratulate  Ms.  María 
Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on her election as President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. I 
wish her every success in discharging her duties in that 
role. I would also like to express my appreciation to her 
predecessor, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, who steered the work 
of the previous session with wisdom and efficiency.
Last  year,  from  this  rostrum,  I  addressed  the 
General Assembly on the situation in my country, Iraq 
(see A/72/PV.20). In the years prior to that, Da’esh had 
occupied a third of Iraq’s territory, burned everything 
in  sight,  destroyed  monuments  in  Nineveh  —  dating 
back  to  the  time  when  my  country  was  the  cradle  of 
civilization  —  as  well  as  the  Mosque  of  the  Prophet 
Yunus,  expelled  6  million  Iraqis  from  the  provinces 
it  occupied,  preyed  on  the  Yazidi  religious  minority 
by  kidnapping  its  women,  drove  out  ethnic  Turkmen 
from Tal Afar and killed Shia men and women there by 
burning them alive.
All of that could have been a catastrophe of historic 
proportions  from  which  we  could  never  recover. 
However,  although  despair  had  seized  the  hearts  and 
minds of many, there were still many of us whose full 
faith in God never wavered. Many of us were confident 
that the determination of Iraqi men and women of all ages 
and the intelligence of our leaders could turn the tide.  
The people of Iraq, of all faiths and ethnic backgrounds, 
came together to defend their country. They shed their 
blood on the battlefield and made immense sacrifices 
to liberate the lands occupied by Da’esh. Thousands in 
the ranks of the heroic Iraqi armed forces, police and 
popular  militias  were  martyred  or  injured,  as  were 
members  of  the  Peshmerga,  counter-terrorism  forces 
and other groups. We led that fight with honour on behalf 
of the entire world, with the support of the international 
coalition  against  Da’esh  and  of  our  friends,  brothers 
and  neighbours.  Every  one  of  them  deserves  our  full 
recognition, and Iraq will never forget those who stood 
by it.
That  crucial  historic  battle  took  place  at  a  time 
when the safety of the whole world was under attack. 
Terrorists’ attempts to extend their reach to ever more 
56/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
parts  of  the  planet  attracted  adherents  representing 
more  than  120  different  nationalities.  We  thank  God 
for the support of the international community, whose 
assistance  made  it  possible  for  us  to  vanquish  that 
ferocious enemy and put an end to the Da’esh presence 
in Iraq. It is now on its last legs in its final stronghold, 
in Syria.
I  am  addressing  the  General  Assembly  today  as 
my country is leavings behind that period of war and 
entering  a  new  one  characterized  by  reconstruction 
and  the  return  of  the  displaced  persons  who  were 
driven from their homes and fled to various corners of 
the  globe.  In  this  new  chapter  in  the  history  of  Iraq, 
we  are  working  hard  to  strengthen  State  institutions, 
enhance  participation 
in  governance  and  build 
political  and  constitutional  consensus  in  our  national 
affairs,  with  a  view  to  joining  the  club  of  democratic 
nations.  We  are  abandoning  sectarianism  of  every 
kind and uniting people around respect for law and the 
Constitution. Most recently, as part of the democratic 
electoral  cycle  that  has  been  in  place  since  2004,  we 
held parliamentary elections. We will soon elect a new 
President  of  the  Republic,  who  will  in  turn  appoint  a 
new  Prime  Minister  whose  principal  task  will  be  to 
form a Government responsible for fighting corruption 
and putting the country on a path to development and 
prosperity.
As  I  address  the  Assembly  today,  Iraqis  in  the 
Kurdistan  region  of  Iraq  are  preparing  for  regional 
parliamentary  elections, 
in  accordance  with  our 
federal multiparty system. In the light of that, I call on 
the  international  community  to  honour  the  financial 
pledges  made  at  the  Kuwait  International  Conference 
for the Reconstruction of Iraq earlier this year, on the 
basis of our being a promising country and a cradle of 
civilization. Indeed, since Iraq sits at the crossroads of 
different  civilizations,  religions  and  nationalities,  we 
are endowed with a wealth of traditions.
The  military  victory  over 
terrorism  did  not 
necessarily  spell  the  end  of  terrorism.  Rather,  we 
have  simply  entered  a  new  phase  in  our  efforts  to 
totally eradicate its causes. We should strive to create 
a  strategic  plan  with  economic,  cultural  and  political 
dimensions  so  as  to  immunize  communities  against 
the  dangers  of  the  return  of  terrorism.  We  should 
also  address  the  issues  that  relate  to  young  people, 
women  and  children,  putting  in  place  programmes  to 
improve their standard of living, build capacity within 
the  framework  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development  and  especially  to  tackle  unemployment. 
We  must  also  protect  diversity,  support  minorities, 
maintain peace and security in liberated areas and move 
from national reconciliation to the strengthening of the 
national institutions in which all Iraqis have a stake.
Today  Iraqis  are  making  every  effort  to  move 
forward as a single, united geographical entity, rejecting 
all forms of division, foreign interference and partition. 
Most  recently,  we  have  made  important  advances 
in  fighting  terrorism,  strengthening  democracy  and 
keeping to the schedule set for parliamentary elections. 
We continue to fight to protect human rights, political 
plurality and the freedom of expression, having enacted 
detailed legislation in those areas.
In  standing  by  Iraq  through  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq  (UNAMI),  the  United 
Nations  has  made  significant  sacrifices.  As  UNAMI 
continues  to  work  to  fulfil  its  mandate,  I  want  to 
acknowledge  the  key  role  played  by  Mr.  Ján  Kubiš, 
Special Representative and Head of the Mission, whose 
achievements  in  our  country  have  been  considerable. 
We  also  welcome  the  appointment  of  his  successor, 
Ms. Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, who is the first woman 
to be appointed Head of the Mission.
We continue to strive to end the effects of the war 
against  terrorism  on  displaced  persons  by  providing 
them  with  reparations,  ensuring  their  return  and 
collecting  evidence  for  the  crimes  committed  against 
them by the Da’esh terrorist organization in Iraq. That 
work is being done through the commission that was set 
up pursuant to Security Council resolution 2379 (2017) 
to document the crimes committed by Da’esh.
Iraq  believes 
that 
the 
that 
The  Government  of 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security is the 
responsibility  of  all  of  us.  We  stress  the  importance 
of  ensuring 
international  community 
continues  to  act  to  completely  eliminate  nuclear 
weapons  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  with  a 
view to guaranteeing the safety and security of future 
generations.  We  support  the  universalization  of  all 
treaties  and  conventions  on  disarmament,  as  they  are 
the only concrete guarantee that there will be no use or 
threat of use of such weapons. Iraqis paid a heavy price 
when  weapons  of  this  kind  were  used  against  them 
during  their  time  under  dictatorship.  The  Assembly 
will  recall  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  of  Halabja 
were victims of chemical weapons in one of the most 
egregious criminal acts in history, and that the Shia in 
18-30104
57/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
central  and  southern  Iraq  were  subjected  to  similarly 
egregious  mass  killings,  as  were  members  of  other 
sects.
My  Government  is  working  to  overcome  the 
economic  crisis  by  making  the  best  possible  use  of 
its  resources,  establishing  economic  partnerships  and 
creating  an  environment  favourable  to  investment 
in  order  to  benefit  from  available  opportunities  and 
achieve sustainable economic development.
Iraq reaffirms its steadfast position with regard to 
the Palestinian question. We emphasize that there is no 
chance for peace in our region until Israel, the occupying 
Power, fully withdraws from the Palestinian and Arab 
occupied territories. We call for the establishment of an 
independent Palestinian State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif 
as  its  capital.  We  condemn  the  settlement  policy 
pursued by the Israeli occupying authorities in violation 
of international law. In that regard, Iraq categorically 
rejects once again the step taken by the United States in 
relocating its Embassy to East Jerusalem. That action 
will not serve to further the cause of peace in the region 
and renders the situation even more complicated.
Iraq  rejects  unilateral  blockades  imposed  outside 
the context of the United Nations system, and believes 
that  economic  sanctions  are  not  a  way  to  punish 
governing regimes or organizations under an acceptable 
or unacceptable pretext. It is the people who suffer the 
unjust consequences of such sanctions. The Iraqi people 
were victims of sanctions that lasted for nearly 13 years, 
from 1990 to 2003. Ordinary Iraqi people — men and 
woman, the elderly, the young and children — paid the 
heaviest  price  for  those  economic  sanctions.  We  are 
not in favour of any blockade, because it is against the 
people.
Turning  to  security,  we  believe  that  it  is  an 
indivisible  whole.  We  cannot  pursue  security  within 
our  own  borders  while  paying  no  heed  to  that  of  our 
neighbours.  Security  goes  hand  in  hand  with  broader 
geopolitical concerns. When dealing with geosecurity, 
it is not enough to focus on one country’s need. We must 
ensure that the needs of our neighbours are met as well.
Iraq welcomes the agreement on the situation in the 
Korean  peninsula,  which  is  in  line  with  the  purposes 
of  the  United  Nations  with  regard  to  maintaining 
international peace and security.
We  also  hope  that  peace  and  stability  will  be 
restored  in  Syria,  ending  the  spiral  of  violence  there 
and preserving its territorial integrity, while supporting 
all political tracks that can lead to a balanced political 
solution acceptable to the Syrian Government and other 
Syrian parties. That would help to avoid more bloodshed 
and the death of innocent civilians. We therefore urge 
the political stakeholders to work seriously towards this 
type of political solution rather than a military one.
Turning  to  Yemen,  we  believe  that  a  solution  to 
the  crisis  there  can  be  found  only  through  peaceful 
dialogue. The conflict must come to an end, the guns 
of  war  must  be  silenced  and  all  external  interference 
must cease.
As  for  Bashiqa,  Iraq  categorically  rejects  the 
presence  of  Turkish  forces  there  and  the  continued 
violations of Iraq’s sovereignty. We aspire to excellent 
and good-neighbourly relations with Turkey like those 
we have with other neighbouring countries. However, 
we call on Turkey to take a clear position with regard to 
those violations and to put an end to them.
We  also  call  for  an  increase  in  Iraq’s  legitimate 
water  resources.  The  loss  of  those  resources  has  led 
to significantly reduced water levels in the Tigris and 
Euphrates  rivers,  resulting  in  adverse  environmental 
and  economic  effects  with  serious  repercussions  for 
the future. In the fourth millennium B.C. it was on the 
banks of those two rivers that the first civilization in 
human  history  emerged  from  the  southern  marshes, 
from  Al-Amara  and  Al-Nasiriyya.  We  therefore  feel 
responsible  for  preserving  our  rights  and  cultural 
heritage.
Iraq  categorically  rejects  the  statements  by  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Israeli  entity  claiming  the 
presence of Iranian forces in Iraq as justification for an 
attack on our sovereignty. We reject any attempt to use 
the rostrum of the General Assembly to undermine the 
sovereignty and security of States.
We  have  worked  recently  to  build  close  relations 
with  all  our  neighbours  and  other  friendly  countries, 
moving  away  from  polarization  and  international 
partisanship. We have sought to be a diplomatic bridge 
by establishing excellent relations and communications 
with all stakeholders in the region and worldwide so as 
to have a positive impact on the achievement of security 
in the region.
Iraq will remain a cradle of cultural, religious and 
ethnic diversity. As Sargon of Akkad said, Baghdad will 
remain the dome of the world, and whoever reigns over 
58/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
it will control the four winds of the world. Baghdad will 
never face death and destruction. It will withstand the 
crisis and its brutality. Baghdad is a creator of life. Our 
great poet Mustapha Jamal Al-Din addressed Baghdad 
by  saying  that  it  will  continue  to  live.  Baghdad  will 
remain resplendent as the centuries pass. It will shine 
under the sun and the moon. Thanks to its resilience, it 
will withstand any adversity.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 
Excellency Ms. Ulla Tørnæs, Minister for Development 
Cooperation of Denmark.
Ms. Tørnæs (Denmark): At the outset, I would like 
to join others in paying tribute to the memory of the late 
Kofi Annan, a true world leader and a firm believer in 
the strength of this Organization.
Seventy years ago, the General Assembly adopted 
the first global human rights charter, in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. It codified the most basic 
principles  of  human  dignity,  emphasizing  that  we  are 
all  equal.  We  committed  to  an  international  order  in 
which rights and freedoms could be fully realized.
Seventy  years  ago,  we  knew  that  international 
cooperation was the only way to protect our populations, 
and  through  this  Organization,  we  have  delivered 
remarkable results.
Still, the foundation on which this Organization is 
built has perhaps never been under more pressure than 
it is today. The very principle of multilateralism is being 
questioned. Doubt is being cast on the frameworks that 
protect  human  rights,  ensure  free  trade  and  promote 
global development. Insufficient action is being taken 
on  global  problems  such  as  climate  change,  poverty, 
migration, terrorism and violent extremism.
To  Denmark,  the  path  forward  is  clear.  Global 
challenges  require  global  solutions.  To  that  end,  we 
need a strong United Nations, with its unique legitimacy 
and  its  universal  membership,  a  United  Nations  that 
delivers on its full potential.
Denmark  remains  committed  to  the  Secretary-
General’s reform agenda. This year we open the General 
Assembly with three agreed tracks for reform. Together 
with Algeria, Denmark had the honour to facilitate the 
negotiations on reform of the development system. We 
are  proud  of  the  result,  and  we  will  continue  to  play 
a  constructive  role  in  the  important  implementation 
ahead.  For  instance,  Denmark  intends  to  contribute 
more than $10 million to support the establishment of 
the new Resident Coordinator system, and we encourage 
others to follow suit.
Member  States  have  clearly  voiced  their  support. 
Now the reforms must be turned into reality. The world 
expects  a  new  and  more  streamlined  United  Nations 
to  emerge.  Every  entity  of  the  United  Nations  must 
embrace  this  opportunity  to  change  and  make  real 
improvements for the benefit of our peoples.
take 
responsibility 
As  Member  States,  we  must  also  reinvest  in 
for 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  rules-based 
our  multilateral  cooperation  and 
international order. That is why Denmark has presented 
its  candidature  for  membership  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  for  the  2019-2021  term.  If  elected,  we  will 
promote the rights and equal opportunities of women, 
continue  our 
torture, 
work  to  protect  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  and 
encourage freedom of religion and belief. That must be 
done without discrimination on any ground, including 
sexual  orientation  and  gender  identity.  That  is  the 
Danish DNA and the DNA of the United Nations.
long-standing  fight  against 
In several parts of the world, gender equality is but 
a  distant  hope.  Women’s  rights  are  under  increasing 
pressure. We cannot accept that; we must stand up and 
challenge  it.  Every  woman  must  be  able  to  unleash 
her  potential  —  without  question  —  to  the  benefit  of 
all.  We  must  ensure  that  she  is  the  one  making  the 
decisions  concerning  her.  Gender  equality  and  equal 
opportunities  are  not  only  fundamental  human  rights 
but preconditions for development, peace and prosperity 
in any country, anywhere in the world.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change set out a 
strong  global  vision  for  achieving  a  more  sustainable 
planet. Denmark is committed to that common vision. 
For more than 40 consecutive years, we have proudly 
delivered  on  the  United  Nations  target  of  providing 
0.7  per  cent  of  our  gross  national  income  as  official 
development assistance (ODA). Sadly, we are in a group 
that has far too few members. While ODA is crucial for 
ensuring global development, we need the involvement 
of all actors, especially the private sector, civil society 
and local authorities.
We  must  give  young  people  a  seat  at  the  table 
in  order  to  ensure  that  development  is  pursued  not 
just  for  young  people  but  with  and  by  them.  That  is 
why  Denmark  was  the  first  country  to  announce  a 
contribution  to  the  Secretary-General’s  new  Youth 
18-30104
59/61
A/73/PV.12 
28/09/2018
2030 strategy. We congratulate the United Nations and 
all young people on that strategy and look forward to 
seeing it in action.
Member States and the United Nations system have 
to adapt to the world around us and embrace and use 
new  technologies.  We  need  the  innovative  ideas,  the 
finance  and  the  expertise  that  only  the  private  sector 
can  bring  to  the  table.  In  short,  in  order  to  attain  the 
Sustainable Development Goals over the next 12 years, 
we must rethink the way we do business here. The clock 
is  ticking.  That  is  one  of  the  reasons  that  Denmark, 
together  with  its  partners,  launched  the  Partnering 
for  Green  Growth  and  the  Global  Goals  2030  (P4G) 
initiative. Through the P4G network, we bring together 
major companies, cities, civil society, think tanks and 
Governments  to  boost  and  create  partnerships  for  a 
greener  tomorrow.  In  October,  Denmark  will  host  a 
high-level  P4G  summit  in  Copenhagen  to  forge  and 
accelerate such partnerships.
Education provides the foundations for knowledge 
and for harnessing the technologies and opportunities 
of tomorrow. When it comes to education, we can and 
must do better, much better. Globally, 130 million girls 
do not go to school. In crisis situations, girls are two and 
a half times less likely to be at school than boys. Girls 
are at much greater risk than boys of being victims of 
sexual abuse or exploitation, and much more likely to 
be affected by child marriage or childbirth. Just think. 
In some parts of the world, girls as young as nine years 
old  are  being  forced  to  marry  adult  men.  That  is  not 
acceptable. We must let girls be girls, not brides.
Education  is  a  beacon  of  hope  for  those  girls. 
That is why Denmark is now the largest contributor to 
Education Cannot Wait, and why we will spend almost 
$70  million  next  year  on  education  in  developing 
countries,  because  Denmark  wants  to  ensure  that  no 
girl will be left behind.
Displacement  and  unsafe  and  irregular  migration 
pose  a  significant  global  challenge  that  requires 
determined  efforts  at  all  levels.  In  July,  Denmark 
welcomed  the  finalization  of  the  negotiations  on  a 
global compact on migration. The compact establishes 
a  global  framework  for  common  action  and  a  much-
needed  path  for  managing  irregular  migration  in  a 
safe  and  orderly  manner  and  for  curbing  irregular 
migration, including through the facilitation of return, 
with respect for human rights and the principle of State 
sovereignty at its core.
We  also  welcome  the  agreement  on  the  global 
compact  on  refugees.  Denmark  is,  per  capita,  one  of 
the  world’s  largest  humanitarian  donors.  A  key  focus 
of  ours  is  helping  refugees  and  internally  displaced 
persons  in  their  efforts  to  attain  a  life  of  safety  and 
dignity.  By  ensuring  close  coordination  between  our 
humanitarian  and  development  aid,  Denmark  helps 
to  build  the  foundation  for  lasting  solutions  and  safe 
return when the time is right.
The horrors in Syria, Yemen and elsewhere tell the 
grim story of why humanitarian efforts are so desperately 
needed.  The  conflict  in  Syria  rages  into  its  eighth 
year.  So  many  have  already  experienced  unspeakable 
suffering, evil and atrocities. Three million people have 
been on the brink of humanitarian catastrophe in Idlib. 
The tragedy in Syria cannot continue.
Earlier this week, Member States honoured Nelson 
Mandela. In a fitting celebration of an iconic proponent 
of  peace,  leaders  from  across  the  world  underscored 
the importance of our joint commitment to building a 
peaceful and prosperous world.
integrated  and  shared  approaches 
As  we  push  for  reforms  and  strengthen  our 
multilateral  institutions,  we  must  acknowledge  the 
today’s  global  challenges. 
interconnectedness  of 
We  need 
to 
stabilization,  peacebuilding  and  conflict  prevention. 
That  is  why  Denmark  has  been  a  strong  supporter  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Fund.  We  are  proud  to  step  up  our 
commitment  with  a  new  contribution  to  the  Fund  of 
$15 million over the next three years.
The world is witnessing armed conflicts that could 
have  been  prevented  or  stopped  years  ago.  Too  many 
States are failing in their responsibility to protect their 
own populations against the most horrific crimes.
Denmark will continue to insist on accountability 
for  the  most  appalling  crimes.  Such  crimes  must 
never go unpunished, and the victims deserve justice. 
This  year  we  mark  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  a 
landmark achievement aimed at ensuring accountability 
and justice.
The recent report of the United Nations Independent 
Fact-Finding  Mission  on  Myanmar  (A/HRC/39/64) 
clearly  underlines  the  need  for  accountability  in 
relation  to  the  Rohingya  crisis.  At  the  same  time,  we 
must  not  forget  the  enormous  need  for  humanitarian 
assistance and development aid. I am happy to announce 
60/61 
18-30104
28/09/2018 
A/73/PV.12
that  Denmark  will  provide  another  $7  million  as  an 
extraordinary  humanitarian  response  to  that  crisis. 
That is in addition to the $46 million we have already 
provided  since  2017.  Denmark  also  provides  support 
to  the  Office  of  the  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-
General on Myanmar.
The situation on the Korean peninsula is a strong 
reminder  of  what  is  at  stake.  Denmark  fully  supports 
the continuing efforts by South Korea and the United 
States  to  seek  a  diplomatic  solution  with  the  North 
Korean  regime.  North  Korea  must  now  take  concrete 
steps  towards  complete,  verifiable  and  irreversible 
denuclearization. Until then, sanctions and international 
pressure must remain firmly in place.
The problems facing the world are dire. We will be 
successful only if we act together. Multilateralism and 
cooperation must be the foundation. The task may seem 
impossible, but we have done it before. With the United 
Nations,  we  have  fostered  an  international  order,  a 
strong  set  of  common  values,  rules  and  goals.  People 
around the world demand solutions. The United Nations 
cannot let them down. Now is the time for us to reform 
and rebuild this institution.
The meeting rose at 3.35 p.m.
18-30104
61/61
