United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
25th plenary meeting
Thursday, 25 October 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.25*
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Gertze 
(Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 76 (contiued)
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of 
Justice (A/73/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/319)
Mr.  Bandeira  Galindo  (Brazil):  Let  me  start 
by  thanking  the  President  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice,  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  for  his 
informative  report  (A/73/4)  on  the  Court’s  activity.  I 
would  also  like  to  commend  the  judges  of  the  Court 
for  their  outstanding  contribution  to  the  application 
of  international  law  and  the  peaceful  settlement 
of disputes.
These remarks are aligned with those delivered by the 
representative of Cabo Verde (see A/73/PV.24) on behalf 
of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries.
The  annual  presentation  of  the  report  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  affords  us  a  unique 
opportunity  to  assess  what  international  law  can 
do  to  defuse  tensions  and  promote  a  more  peaceful 
world.  By  fostering  dialogue  through  the  common 
language of international law, the Court is an effective 
channel  for  preventive  diplomacy  and  cooperation. 
Secretary-General  Guterres  has  underscored  the  need 
for  the  United  Nations  to  focus  on  prevention,  which 
is  inextricably  linked  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  The  Court  is  at  the  core  of  those  efforts. 
For  it  is  more  than  just  another  avenue  listed  in 
Chapter VI of the Charter of the United Nations. It is 
the  main  judicial  body  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
only  international  court  of  a  universal  character  with 
general jurisdiction. For more than 70 years, the Court 
has helped to crystallize and clarify international law 
in areas as diverse as the law of the sea, human rights, 
treaty interpretation and the use of force — just to name 
a  few.  Through  its  judgments  and  advisory  opinions, 
it has upheld the principles of the Charter and helped 
to  ensure  the  primacy  of  law  in  international  affairs. 
The Court’s pronouncements also provide fundamental 
guidance to States in the interpretation of international 
norms,  including  multilateral  treaties,  in  accordance 
with the Charter.
The Court’s latest report is yet another chapter in its 
auspicious history, with four judgments, 13 orders and 
five  new  contentious  cases.  As  the  report  highlights, 
the pending cases involve States from four continents, 
including  six  from  Africa,  seven  from  the  Americas, 
six from Asia and five from Europe. The high level of 
activity,  the  diverse  geographical  spread  of  cases  and 
the variety of subject matter demonstrate the renewed 
vitality of the Court and its universal role in promoting 
justice. It also reminds us of the heavy demands placed 
on  the  Court  and  the  efforts  that  it  has  been  making 
to  keep  up  with  its  increasing  workload.  Brazil  also 
welcomes  the  Court’s  outreach  efforts,  which  bring  it 
closer  to  a  variety  of  audiences  and  therefore  help  to 
disseminate  international  law.  The  Court’s  internship 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-33996 (E)
*1833996*

* Reissued for technical reasons 24 January 2019.
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
programmes,  as  well  as  its  participation  in  events 
organized  by  universities,  are  good  examples  of 
effective outreach activities.
In conclusion, let me reaffirm Brazil’s unwavering 
support  for  the  Court  and  its  role  in  strengthening 
the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level.  We  believe 
that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  will  continue 
to  play  a  key  role  in  promoting  a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance  and  justice,  thereby  advancing  the  goals  of 
the United Nations.
Mr. Bin Momen (Bangladesh): Bangladesh thanks 
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
for  his  report  (A/73/4)  providing  a  summary  of  the 
Court’s extensive judicial activities over the reporting 
period,  which  involved  a  number  of  contentious, 
as  well  as  new,  cases.  We  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  once  again  congratulate  the  Court  on 
its  crucial  role  in  promoting  the  pacific  settlement  of 
international  disputes  and  upholding  the  rule  of  law 
at  the  international  level,  thereby  contributing  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  as 
stipulated by the Charter of the United Nations.
We  underscore  the  importance  of  upholding  the 
Court’s standing as the principal judicial organ of the 
United  Nations  and  of  making  enhanced  use  of  its 
jurisdiction to de-escalate tension and prevent conflicts 
among Member States. The pending contentious cases 
before the Court involve Member States from various 
parts  of  the  world,  thereby  reaffirming  the  universal 
character of the Court’s jurisdiction. We remain mindful 
of  the  General  Assembly’s  call  on  Member  States  to 
accept  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  accordance  with  its 
Statute. It is also incumbent on the General Assembly, 
the Security Council and other United Nations organs 
to  make  use  of  the  Court’s  competence  and  seek  its 
advisory  opinion  on  legal  questions  arising  under  the 
remit  of  their  respective  activities.  The  judicious  and 
authoritative nature of the Court’s decisions in the past 
should foster confidence in its ability to provide sound 
advisory opinions and interpretation on relevant norms 
of  international  law.  Settling  international  disputes 
peacefully 
the  International 
Court  of  Justice  is  certainly  a  cost-effective  option, 
not  least  for  the  Court’s  efforts  to  act  expeditiously. 
We  appreciate  its  determination  to  address  incidental 
proceedings brought before it with urgency, despite its 
otherwise busy schedule.
through  recourse 
to 
As a nation unequivocally committed to the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  including  through  recourse  to 
international  law,  Bangladesh  duly  acknowledges  the 
Court’s  judgments,  advisory  opinions  and  ongoing 
work  concerning  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty, 
the  unlawful  use  of  force  and  interference  in  the 
domestic  affairs  of  States,  among  other  issues.  With 
our  precedent  for  resolving  long-standing  maritime 
boundary  delimitation  issues  with  our  neighbouring 
countries through legal and peaceful means, we continue 
to  follow  with  interest  the  Court’s  work  on  territorial 
and  maritime  disputes,  as  well  as  the  conservation  of 
natural and living resources. As an Indian Ocean rim 
country, we are particularly interested in the request for 
an advisory opinion made to the Court by the General 
Assembly on the question of the Chagos archipelago.
Bangladesh attaches great importance to the Court’s 
advisory  opinion  of  2004  concerning  the  illegality 
of  Israeli  settlements  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories,  which  continue  to  pose  a  formidable 
obstacle to a meaningful resumption of the Middle East 
peace  process.  We  reaffirm  our  unwavering  support 
to the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to an 
independent  and  viable  State  of  Palestine,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
Bangladesh 
sponsor  of 
is  an  annual 
the 
General  Assembly  resolution  entitled  “Follow-up 
to  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  on  the  legality  of  the  threat  or  use  of  nuclear 
weapons”.  Pursuant  to  the  Court’s  conclusions,  we 
continue  to  underscore  the  importance  of  negotiating 
in  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  a  comprehensive 
convention 
that  addresses  all  aspects  of  nuclear 
disarmament  under  strict  and  effective  international 
control.  We  consider  the  recently  adopted  Treaty  on 
the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  be  a  critical 
building block in our efforts to achieve a world free of 
nuclear weapons.
Bangladesh  will  continue  to  encourage  the  Court 
to  give  due  consideration  to  developing  country 
candidates  as  part  of  its  internship  and  university 
trainee  programmes.  We  appreciate 
the  Court’s 
redesigned,  user-friendly  website.  We  underscore  the 
need for addressing the reported uncertainty about the 
Court’s temporary relocation from its current premises.
Finally,  we  thank  Switzerland  for  its  voluntary 
contributions this year to the Secretary-General’s Trust 
2/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
Fund  to  assist  States  in  meeting  expenses  incurred 
during the settlement of disputes through the Court.
Ms. Durney (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): Allow me 
to  begin  by  conveying  our  country’s  congratulations 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  on  his  election,  in 
February this year, to such a high honour.
Chile was pleased to receive the full report on the 
work  of  the  Court  for  the  period  from  2017  to  2018 
(A/73/4),  which  was  presented  by  its  President,  and 
we  thank  him  for  his  briefing.  We  have  followed  the 
Court’s work during the reporting period with special 
attention. It reflects the intense efforts made to address 
increasingly varied and complex issues in international 
law,  including  territorial  and  maritime  law,  consular 
law, human rights, environmental issues, international 
responsibility and reparations, State immunity and the 
interpretation and application of international treaties. 
Those  issues  reflect  a  community  of  States  open  to 
receiving the Court’s decisions in order to guide their 
conduct under international law.
The Court’s primary role in the area of international 
justice  deserves  to  be  highlighted,  along  with  its 
judgments  and  advisory  opinions.  We  value  the  high 
responsibilities  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
and  its  mission.  Its  work  is  called  on  to  reflect  the 
pre-eminence  of  international  law  and  its  mission 
should legitimize the system in place for the settlement 
of legal disputes. As the principal judicial organ of the 
United  Nations,  the  Court  plays  a  fundamental  role 
in  the  interpretation  and  application  of  international 
law,  while  generating  valuable  jurisprudence  that 
contributes  to  the  clarification  and  determination  of 
applicable international law, as well as to the validity 
and  effectiveness  of  an  international  legal  order 
designed  to  strengthen  peaceful  coexistence  among 
peoples. The Court also plays a very important role in 
clarifying the spaces of law for States and the necessary 
scope of action for diplomacy, as well as the relevance 
of multilateralism in establishing binding international 
instruments, a duty we are called on to fulfil as States 
Members of the Organization. States must be confident 
that the work of the Court is conducted with the highest 
standards  of  impartiality  and  independence,  which  is 
essential  when  seeking  recourse  to  the  Court.  Those 
values  are  key  to  preserving  the  Court’s  role  and 
to  safeguarding  the  integrity  of  the  principle  of  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes.
Our  country  recently  took  note  of  the  Court’s 
final judgment in a case concerning it and is currently 
party to another case pending before the Court. Chile 
has  participated  in  the  processes  while  reaffirming 
its  commitment  to  international  law  and  peaceful 
relations  among  States  at  every  step.  As  we  have 
said  before,  strengthening  international  law  as  a 
framework  for  cooperation  and  the  construction  of 
a  genuine  international  community  among  States 
is  a  central  principle  that  guides  Chile’s  foreign 
policy.  International  law  establishes  the  fundamental 
elements  for  coexistence  among  countries  and  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  arising  among  them. 
In that context, Chile emphasizes the essential role of 
international  treaties  in  the  relations  between  States, 
inasmuch  as  they  are  an  expression  of  their  consent 
and regulated by international law, thereby constituting 
an objective normative basis for action. Chile honours 
its  commitments  under  international  law.  Similarly, 
we  adhere  to  the  legal  principles  that  underpin  our 
Organization.  For  Chile,  observing  those  norms  and 
principles  strictly,  and  complying  with  them  in  good 
faith, is essential to ensuring the pre-eminence of the 
rule of law and peaceful and stable relations over time 
among nations.
Chile  trusts  in  the  primacy  of  international  law 
in  relations  with  other  States  and  is  convinced  that 
the  value  and  prestige  of  the  principal  judicial  organ 
of  the  United  Nations  will  be  preserved  in  a  global 
context  where  differences  exist  among  States.  We 
must  therefore  continue  to  reaffirm  our  commitment 
to  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and the role of international law and the 
functions of the International Court of Justice, and we 
expect the same commitment from all Member States.
Today’s report points to an increase in the number 
of cases before the Court, a trend that is also indicative 
of the trust that States place in the Court to resolve their 
disputes. We would like to highlight the efforts made and 
measures taken to make procedures more expeditious. 
Not only does it strengthen the rule of law by providing 
rulings on legal matters and ever more rapidly offering 
the  parties  solutions  to  their  differences,  it  also  has 
clear  practical  advantages  in  terms  of  costs,  both  for 
the Court and for States. The report also points out that 
the Court is making greater efforts to reach out to the 
public, students, academics, judges, lawyers and other 
interested communities through the development of its 
multimedia  platform  and  website  and  the  propagation 
18-33996
3/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
of  its  work  through  various  media.  That  approach  is 
relevant in terms of articulating international relations. 
International  law  plays  a  key  role  in  society  and  it  is 
essential that it be respected and effective.
In conclusion, we join the expressions of respect and 
support  for  the  Court.  We  trust  that  the  Organization 
will  continue  to  provide  the  necessary  human  and 
material  resources,  according  to  its  legal  duties  and 
important functions.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): Allow me to congratulate the President of the 
General Assembly on her election.
I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement 
made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of 
Non-Aligned Countries (see A/73/PV.24).
First,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  for  his  report  (A/73/4),  which  gives 
us  another  opportunity  to  interact  with  the  President 
of the principal judicial organ of the Organization and 
informs us about the important work done by the Court 
during the reporting period.
Four decisions were highlighted, three of them on 
cases between Nicaragua and Costa Rica. In those cases 
the  Court  determined  the  set  maritime  delimitation 
between both countries, both in the Caribbean Sea and 
in the Pacific Ocean. That settled an issue that had been 
outstanding  for  many  years  between  both  countries 
and it will have a positive practical effect on all types 
of  relations  between  them.  Similarly,  the  Court  also 
defined a portion of the land border in the northern part 
of  the  Harbour  Head  area,  establishing  Nicaragua’s 
sovereignty  over  the  Harbour  Head  lagoon  and  the 
sandbar in front of it. Nicaragua continues to work to 
reflect  those  changes  in  its  official  publications  and 
relevant  technical  legislation.  The  Court  also  defined 
the compensation that Nicaragua owed to Costa Rica for 
certain clean-up activities carried out in the border area 
in accordance with its sovereign rights. As the Court’s 
report indicates, that compensation was transferred on 
8 March 2018, shortly after the judgment was delivered.
Nicaragua’s Government is committed to the rule 
of  law  and  the  promotion  of  international  law  and 
would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm that in 
all cases to which it has been a party, including those 
three cases, it has always faithfully complied with its 
international  obligations,  and  it  hopes  for  reciprocity 
in that regard. My country still has two cases pending 
against the Republic of Colombia, for which this year 
we  have  submitted  the  relevant  replies  in  due  time 
and  form.  We  have  also  safeguarded  our  right  to  an 
additional pleading on the counter-claim presented by 
Colombia in one of the cases.
Nicaragua  also  participated  in  the  oral  hearings 
held  in  response  to  resolution  71/292,  on  the  request 
for  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice on the legal consequences of the separation of 
the  Chagos  archipelago  from  Mauritius  in  1965.  We 
are  confident  that  such  an  advisory  opinion  would 
be of great assistance to the General Assembly in the 
fulfilment of its duties, especially those related to the 
decolonization  process.  Historically,  the  work  of  the 
Assembly has been greatly supported by the advisory 
opinions on situations referred to the Court, issued by a 
body of judges who are highly qualified to occupy such 
important positions of authority. It should be noted that 
the consultative nature of those opinions has no impact 
on  the  weight  they  carry  with  respect  to  the  bilateral 
and  multilateral  relations  of  Member  States,  which 
represent all regions and continents.
Finally, on the issue of the Court’s budgetary needs, 
I  would  also  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  Member 
States to the fact that the report points to a considerable 
increase  in  the  number  of  requests  for  provisional 
measures,  which  cannot  be  anticipated  and  represent 
an  extraordinary  expense  for  the  Court,  particularly 
because they take priority over other proceedings and 
normally  require  oral  hearings.  We  therefore  suggest 
keeping  that  in  mind  when  approving  the  Court’s 
budget.
Mr.  Sharma  (India):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 
thank Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf, President of the 
International Court of Justice, for presenting the report 
on the judicial activities of the Court for the period from 
August 2017 to 31 July 2018 (A/73/4). I also thank him 
and the Vice-President of the Court, Judge Xue Hanqin, 
for guiding the work of the Court during that time.
The  main  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is 
to  maintain  international  peace  and  security.  The 
International Court of Justice, in its role as the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations, has a large share of 
the responsibility for achieving that objective in its task 
of  resolving  disputes  between  States.  The  Charter  of 
the United Nations and the Statute of the Court entrust 
the  Court  with  dual  jurisdiction.  The  Court  exercises 
4/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
jurisdiction  in  settling  disputes  of  a  legal  nature  that 
are  submitted  to  it  by  States.  That  is  its  contentious 
jurisdiction.  The  Court  also  exercises  jurisdiction 
in  giving  advisory  opinions  on  legal  questions  at 
the  request  of  United  Nations  organs  or  specialized 
agencies that are authorized to make such requests. That 
is  its  advisory  jurisdiction.  As  a  matter  of  reference, 
the Court is currently dealing with a request from the 
General  Assembly  for  an  advisory  opinion  for  which 
oral proceedings were conducted just this past month.
To take stock of the work it has carried out since 
it  began  its  activities  in  April  1946  and  its  first  case 
was submitted in May 1947, 175 cases had been entered 
into the Court’s General List as of July 2018. The Court 
has  delivered  more  than  120  judgments  and  rendered 
27 advisory opinions, with one more currently pending. 
During the 2017-2018 judicial year, the Court delivered 
judgments in four cases. It also handed down 13 orders 
required  for  different  purposes  at  different  stages  of 
proceedings  of  the  cases  and  held  public  hearings  in 
three  cases.  Its  report  reveals  that  as  of  31  July,  the 
Court had 17 contentious cases, including one involving 
my own country, India, and one advisory case pending 
on  its  docket.  Both  its  workload  and  the  quality  of 
its  work  show  that  the  Court  has  stood  up  to  the  test 
of  fulfilling  the  task  of  settling  disputes  between 
States  and  acquired  a  well-deserved  reputation  as  an 
institution that maintains the highest legal standards in 
accordance with its mandate.
With regard to the Court’s subject matter and issues, 
the cases before the Court involve complex factual and 
legal  issues  relating  to  a  variety  of  fields,  including 
territorial  and  maritime  delimitation,  consular  rights, 
human rights, environmental damage and conservation 
of  living  resources,  international  responsibility,  the 
immunity  of  States,  their  representatives  and  assets, 
and the interpretation and application of international 
treaties. Those facts clearly illustrate the importance of 
the Court’s role in upholding the rule of law. The Court’s 
activities are directly aimed at promoting and reinforcing 
the  rule  of  law  through  its  judgments  and  advisory 
opinions. It has a crucial role in the interpretation and 
clarification of the rules and principles of international 
law  as  well  as  in  the  progressive  development  and 
codification of international law.
The report of the Court reflects the importance that 
States attach to the Court and the confidence that they 
repose in it. That is evident in the number, nature and 
variety of cases that the Court deals with and its ability 
to deal with the complex aspects of public international 
law. That is very apparently confirmed by the fact that 
the pending contentious cases were submitted by States 
from  four  continents,  which  speaks  to the  universal 
character  of  the  Court.  It  is  significant  to  note  that 
the  Court  has  not  lost  sight  of  adapting  its  working 
methods,  including  in  handling  emergent  situations, 
responding to its increased workload and dealing with 
the complexity of the cases submitted to it.
We  appreciate  the  Court’s  efforts  to  ensure  the 
greatest  possible  global  awareness  of  its  decisions 
through  its  publications,  multimedia  offerings  and 
the  website,  which  now  features  the  Court’s  entire 
jurisprudence,  as  well  as  that  of  its  predecessor,  the 
Permanent Court of International Justice. Those sources 
provide useful information to States wishing to invoke 
the jurisdiction of the Court. The report notes that it has 
become necessary to temporarily shift the Court from 
the  Peace  Palace  in  The  Hague  to  elsewhere  so  that 
the building can be decontaminated and renovated. In 
that context, we appreciate the efforts of the authorities 
of  the  host  country  to  restore  the  building  and  at  the 
same time ensure the Court’s unhindered functioning. 
Finally, India wishes to reaffirm its strong support to 
the  Court  and  acknowledge  the  importance  that  the 
international community attaches to its work.
Mr. Carazo (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): It is an 
honour for Costa Rica to once again participate in the 
annual meeting of the General Assembly to consider the 
report on the work of the International Court of Justice, 
which is the only international tribunal of a universal 
nature that has general jurisdiction and is the principal 
judicial organ of the United Nations. I thank President 
Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  for  his  report  (A/73/4)  and 
congratulate  him  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice.
During the period under review in the report, the 
work  of  the  Court  was  once  again  very  intense,  with 
four judgments delivered, including three in which my 
country was one of the parties involved, and 13 orders, 
including  one  concerning  the  request  submitted  by 
the  General  Assembly  for  an  advisory  opinion  on  the 
legal  consequences  of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos 
archipelago  from  Mauritius  in  1965.  We  also  know 
that the Court has 17 contentious cases on its current 
list,  in  addition  to  an  advisory  opinion.  In  that  same 
period, the Court held public hearings for three cases 
and accepted five new ones.
18-33996
5/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
It  is  of  particular  note  to  us  that  there  are  cases 
from  four  different  continents  and  that  they  are  very 
diverse, covering issues such as territorial and maritime 
disputes, consular rights, human rights, environmental 
damage  and  the  conservation  of  living  resources, 
international responsibility and reparation for damages, 
the  immunity  of  States  and  their  representatives  and 
property  and  the  interpretation  and  application  of 
international conventions and treaties. That diversity of 
issues, as well as the fact that in the past 20 years the 
activity of the Court has increased considerably, shows 
its universal nature and the importance that members 
attach to its decisions and judgments, as well as to the 
fundamental  role  that  it  plays  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace.
independence,  while  guaranteeing 
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes 
is an essential goal of the United Nations. The role of 
the Court is therefore key to maintaining international 
peace  and  security  and  promoting  the  rule  of  law  at 
the  international  level.  It  is  therefore  a  responsibility 
of the Organization and its States Members to support 
the Court in the fulfilment of its tasks. That requires 
the Organization to ensure that the Court can continue 
to  attend  to  the  cases  submitted  for  its  consideration 
efficiently,  objectively  and  with  absolute  legal  and 
procedural 
the 
budgetary resources that it needs to fulfil its mandate.
Costa  Rica  recognizes  that  international  law, 
especially  as  administered  through  the  International 
Court of Justice, and respect for the rule of law at the 
international  level  provide  the  necessary  tools  for  the 
continuance of the community of nations. We believe 
it  is  essential  that  all  States  comply  with  the  Court’s 
decisions in a manner that is complete and in good faith 
in order to ensure justice and peace. In this report on 
the work of the International Court of Justice, I should 
again  mention  that  Costa  Rica  was  involved  in  three 
cases, which led to judgments that we accepted and that 
delimited and settled both long-standing and short-term 
disputes. We abide by the jurisdiction of the Court, in 
the  belief  in  our  obligation  to  fully  comply  with  the 
judgments that are made. We insist on the importance 
of  ensuring  that  the  Organization  considers  options 
for following up on judicial decisions in order to avoid 
situations of contempt that violate the rule of law.
The International Court of Justice plays a key role 
in the promotion and development of the rule of law at 
the international level. It carries out that function not 
only by means of its advisory opinions and judgments, 
but  also  through  its  various  activities  in  the  areas  of 
academia  and  publicity  and  through  the  easy  access 
to its decisions provided by its website. In that regard, 
we are particularly pleased with the Court’s efforts to 
give  special  attention  to  young  people  by  promoting 
its approach to international law through its internship 
programmes. We also recognize the role that the Court 
can  play  in  contributing  to  achieving  the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  through  its  status  as  an  organ 
that  has  helped  to  prevent  the  use  of  force,  defend 
peoples’  right  to  self-determination,  advocate  for  the 
preservation  of  the  environment  and  recognize  and 
avert future violations of human rights.
Costa Rica accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of 
the Court in 1973 and we respectfully invite States that 
have not yet done so to consider using the mechanism 
provided for in article 36 of the Statute of the Court and 
to accept its jurisdiction accordingly. We are confident 
that the Court will continue to work diligently in order 
to  fairly  and  impartially  resolve  the  disputes  that  are 
submitted in accordance with the mandate entrusted to 
it by States through the Charter of the United Nations. 
In  that  regard  and  in  accordance  with  our  traditional 
respect for the instruments of international law and the 
rule  of  law,  my  country  reiterates  its  commitment  to 
faithfully  abide  by  all  of  the  Court’s  decisions,  while 
reaffirming  our  full  confidence  that  the  Court  will 
continue  to  strengthen  peace  and  justice  through  its 
objective execution of its tasks.
Mr. Biang (Gabon) (spoke in French): I am pleased 
to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  this  plenary 
meeting  on  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice (A/73/4). I would like to take this opportunity to 
congratulate the President of the Court, Mr. Abdulqawi 
Ahmed  Yusuf,  on  his  comprehensive  and  detailed 
report,  as  well  as  his  outstanding  leadership  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  whose  importance  and 
leading  role  in  the  promotion  of  international  law  is 
greatly  appreciated  by  the  Sixth  Committee,  which 
Gabon chairs.
We  are  pleased  to  note  the  Court’s  important 
contribution to the settlement of disputes between States, 
as  evidenced  by  the  growing  number  of  inter-State 
disputes  submitted  to  it,  many  of  which  remain 
pending. The Court is unquestionably fulfilling its role 
as  a  major  instrument  in  the  service  of  international 
peace  and  security,  as  provided  for  in  its  Statute.  On 
behalf of Gabon I would like to commend the Court’s 
excellent work despite the complexity of the questions 
6/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
submitted  to  it,  whether  they  are  disputes  about  the 
implementation or interpretation of international legal 
instruments  or  on  the  delimitation  of  borders  or  the 
continental  shelf.  The  Court  has  always  been  able  to 
live  up  to  its  responsibilities  and  the  requirements  of 
impartiality, independence and justice that underlie its 
decisions and advisory opinions.
The  Court  can  be  proud  of  the  seriousness  of  its 
work,  which  is  the  bedrock  on  which  its  credibility 
depends. It honours the institution and strengthens the 
confidence of Member States in the rule of law and in its 
role as an instrument in their service in seeking peaceful 
solutions  to  the  disputes  that  may  otherwise  divide 
them.  The  General  Assembly  is  also  the  appropriate 
forum  in  which  to  commend  the  Assembly’s  support 
for  the  Court’s  work  during  the  2017-2018  biennium. 
We  hope  that  support  will  continue  in  line  with  the 
growing needs of the Court. I would like to conclude by 
emphasizing  the  importance  of  the  Court’s  normative 
role  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law,  which  enables  it  to 
contribute more effectively to the peaceful settlement 
of disputes and the prevention of conflicts.
Mr.  Skinner-Kleé  Arenales  (Guatemala)  (spoke 
in Spanish): At the outset, I would like to thank Judge 
Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf, President of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  introducing  the  extensive  report 
contained in document A/73/4 and updating us on the 
Court’s  important  judicial  activity,  which  has  been 
particularly intense in the past two decades. There is no 
doubt about the importance of the International Court 
of  Justice  in  resolving  disputes  that  are  submitted  by 
Member States. The fact that the volume of its work has 
increased  in  recent  years  is  testament  to  the  renewed 
confidence  that  States  have  in  the  Court’s  work  of 
resolving disputes in fully and impartially.
Based  on  our  multilateral  approach,  Guatemala 
values the Court’s importance as the main judicial organ 
of  the  United  Nations  for  settling  disputes  between 
States. Its contribution is essential to States’ peaceful 
coexistence and useful cooperation. We also recognize 
that all of the Court’s work, through its judgments and 
advisory opinions, contributes to generating confidence 
in and due compliance with the norms of international 
law and generally accepted international practices.
Finally, I would be remiss if I did not mention the 
referendum  of  15  April  in  which  Guatemalans  had 
the  opportunity  to  decide  whether  to  submit  to  the 
International Court of Justice the territorial, insular and 
maritime  dispute  that  has  endured  for  more  than  150 
years, latterly with our neighbour the State of Belize, 
and  before  that  with  its  former  colonial  ruler,  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
The  people  of  Guatemala  agreed  overwhelmingly  to 
submit  this  controversial  dispute  to  the  International 
Court of Justice, thereby affirming Guatemala’s desire 
to  resolve  that  long-standing  dispute  peacefully  and 
in  accordance  with  international  law,  and  to  have  a 
special relationship and a permanent dialogue with our 
neighbour in order to resolve our shared problems.
Mr. Venezis (Cyprus): It is a privilege to address 
the  General  Assembly  as  it  considers  the  report  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/73/4).  We  are 
grateful to the President of the Court, Judge Abdulqawi 
Ahmed  Yusuf,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  and 
his insightful remarks on the work and functioning of 
the Court.
During the period under review, the International 
Court of Justice once again experienced a particularly 
intense level of activity, delivering judgments on four 
cases,  issuing  13  orders,  holding  public  hearings  on 
three  cases  and  taking  on  five  new  contentious  ones. 
Despite  that  activity,  another  19  cases  are  currently 
pending  before  the  Court.  That  consistently  high 
workload  demonstrates  the  confidence  placed  in  the 
Court and the respect shown to it by States. That trust is 
reiterated in paragraph 8 of resolution 71/146, in which 
the General Assembly emphasizes
“the  important  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, in adjudicating disputes among States and 
the  value  of  its  work,  as  well  as  the  importance 
of  having  recourse  to  the  Court  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes”.
The considerable increase in the Court’s workload 
over  the  past  20  years  is  proof  that  States  will  not 
hesitate to turn to the Court to seek clarification on the 
law, particularly in times of crisis or when their rights 
risk  being  irreparably  harmed.  For  that  reason,  we 
believe that it is essential that the Court’s work should 
be facilitated and supported by all Member States and 
that the Court should dispose of the necessary resources 
to be able to mobilize in a timely manner and effectively 
address such requests.
The  same  paragraph  of  resolution  71/146  further 
recalled that
18-33996
7/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
“consistent  with  Article  96  of  the  Charter,  the 
Court’s  advisory  jurisdiction  may  be  requested 
by the General Assembly, the Security Council or 
other authorized organs of the United Nations and 
the specialized agencies”.
In  that  regard,  and  in  the  spirit  of  upholding  the 
Charter of the United Nations, the Republic of Cyprus 
also  participated  in  the  written  and  oral  proceedings 
in  the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion,  set  out  in 
resolution  71/292, presented  by  the  Group  of  African 
States and  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly,  on  the 
legal  consequences  of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos 
archipelago from Mauritius in 1965. The hearings have 
been completed, and the judges will deliberate on the 
General  Assembly’s  request  for  clarification  for  all 
Member States on important issues of decolonization, 
including 
and 
territorial integrity.
self-determination 
the 
right 
to 
The  Republic  of  Cyprus  is  one  of  73  States 
that  have  made  a  declaration  — 
some  with 
reservations — recognizing the jurisdiction of the Court 
as compulsory. In that context, the Republic of Cyprus 
stresses the importance of ensuring that the decisions 
of the Court are universally accepted and implemented 
by all Member States, without any exceptions or on a 
selective basis.
The  Court’s  jurisdiction  is  further  complemented 
by the more than 300 bilateral or multilateral treaties or 
conventions providing for the Court to have jurisdiction 
ratione  materiae  in  the  resolution  of  various  types  of 
disputes,  its  prorogated  jurisdiction,  as  well  as  its 
jurisdiction in advisory proceedings.
The  Republic  of  Cyprus  reiterates  its  call  to  all 
States that have not yet done so to recognize the Court’s 
jurisdiction in accordance with article 36 of its Statute, 
thereby promoting and facilitating its ability to maintain 
and promote the rule of law throughout the world.
Ms.  Zolotarova  (Ukraine):  We  welcome 
the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  the 
General Assembly and thank him for his comprehensive 
presentation of the report (see A/73/4).
Our  debate  today  is  another  confirmation  of  the 
effectiveness of the pacific settlement of international 
disputes and of the fact that there are no real alternatives 
to it. What we all observe and what the report confirms 
is that an ever-increasing number of States are turning 
to the Court to seek protection of their rights and the 
rights of their people, affirming their trust in the ability 
of the Court and its members to administer justice.
Questions  that  are  under  the  consideration  of 
the  Court  today  are  vitally  important  not  only  to  the 
parties  of  the  disputes  but  to  the  entire  international 
community,  as  they  will  affect  the  future  application 
and  interpretation  of  different  areas  of  international 
law and various bilateral and multilateral treaties. The 
Court’s position will become a source of international 
law that will be quoted not only by scholars but also in 
decisions  of  various  international  judicial  authorities, 
arbitral  tribunals  and  even  World  Trade  Organization 
dispute settlement practice.
We  would  like  also  to  note  the  Court’s  recent 
practice  of  emphasizing  in  its  orders  on  provisional 
measures  a  reference  to  article  41  of  the  Statute, 
reaffirming  that  its  orders  have  a  binding  effect  and 
create  international  legal  obligations  for  parties  that 
the  provisional  measures  address.  Unfortunately,  not 
all States respect the Court’s orders and take genuine 
measures to implement them in good faith.
I would like to remind the Assembly of the Court’s 
order  on  provisional  measures  of  19  April  2017  in 
the  case  instituted  by  Ukraine  against  the  Russian 
Federation concerning Application of the International 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of 
Terrorism and of the International Convention on the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination 
(Ukraine  v.  Russian  Federation).  In  its  decision,  the 
Court required Russia, among other things, to
“refrain from maintaining or imposing limitations 
on the ability of the Crimean Tatar community to 
preserve  its  representative  institutions,  including 
the Mejlis.”
A  year  passed,  and  it  became  apparent  that 
Russia  does  not  believe  that  it  should  suspend  its 
discriminatory  ban  on  the  Mejlis  under  the  language 
of  the  Court’s  order.  On  19  April,  therefore,  Ukraine 
asked the Court to provide a definitive interpretation of 
its order. The language of the order is clear and requires 
that the ban be lifted immediately. We appreciate all the 
efforts that the Court has made to ascertain the views 
of Ukraine and the Russian Federation in that regard. 
Ukraine  welcomes  the  Court’s  reaffirmation  of  the 
binding nature of its order and its direction to Russia 
to  report  on  concrete  steps  taken  to  implement  it  by 
18 January 2019.
8/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
I  would  also  like  to  recall  the  other  part  of  the 
order, to “ensure the availability of Ukrainian-language 
education”. We assert that it has not been implemented, 
either. By ignoring the Court’s order, Russia continues 
to  violate  a  binding  decision,  which  clearly  shows  its 
attitude to the Court, the Charter of the United Nations 
and international law. In that regard, we call on the entire 
international community to insist that Russia abide by 
international law, including the binding rulings of the 
International Court of Justice.
Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  provide,  in 
addition to the information from the report, an update 
regarding the case that Ukraine initiated at the Court 
against the Russian Federation in 2017.
law  by 
international 
On  12  June  2018,  Ukraine  submitted  a  memorial 
to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  documenting 
serious  violations  of 
the 
Russian  Federation.  The  memorial,  accompanied  by 
voluminous  evidence,  establishes  that  the  Russian 
Federation  has  violated  the  International  Convention 
for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and 
the International Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms of Racial Discrimination. It catalogues Russia’s 
brazen and comprehensive assault on human rights and 
international  law  in  the  territory  of  Ukraine,  and  the 
tremendous toll those acts have taken on the Ukrainian 
people and the whole world.
In  joining  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism,  Russia 
pledged to suppress the financing of terrorism, but in 
Ukraine it is doing the opposite. Illegal armed groups in 
Donbas have perpetrated horrific acts of terror against 
civilians,  using  arms  from  the  Russian  Federation. 
And  Russia  has  violated  its  international  obligations 
by  failing  to  prevent  its  officials  and  others  of  its 
nationals from providing weapons to groups known to 
engage  in  terrorist  acts.  With  Russian  support,  those 
groups  attacked  Malaysia  Airlines  Flight  MH-17, 
taking  nearly  300  innocent  lives;  unleashed  deadly 
barrages  of  rocket  fire  on  Ukrainian  cities,  including 
assaults  on  a  checkpoint  near  Volnovakha  and 
residential  neighbourhoods  in  Kramatorsk,  Mariupol, 
and Avdiivka; and planted bombs that ripped through 
patriotic  marches,  popular  nightclubs  and  other 
peaceful locations.
the  representative 
Russia maintains a policy of racial discrimination and 
cultural  erasure  directed  against  ethnic  communities 
that  have  dared  to  oppose  its  purported  annexation. 
Russia  has  trampled  the  political,  civil,  and  cultural 
rights  of  those  communities,  including  by  banning 
the  Mejlis, 
the 
Crimean  Tatar  community,  abducting  and  murdering 
Crimean  Tatar  and  Ukrainian  activists,  prohibiting 
cultural gatherings and suppressing media outlets and 
restricting  opportunities  for  children  to  be  educated 
in  their  native  language.  Rather  than  responding  to 
the  merits  of  Ukraine’s  case,  Russia  seeks  to  avoid 
accountability  for  its  unlawful  actions  and  has  filed 
preliminary  objections,  arguing  that  the  Court  lacks 
jurisdiction over the case.
institution  of 
Ukraine  wants  to  reiterate  its  commitment  to 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  We  value  the 
impartiality  and  expeditiousness  of 
the  Court’s 
activities. We recognize that the Court plays a crucial 
role  in  maintaining  and  promoting  the  rule  of  law  all 
over the world, especially in situations of conflict.
Mr.  Eick  (Germany)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, Mr. Abdulqawi Ahmed 
Yusuf,  for  the  presentation  of  his  report  (A/73/4)  this 
morning (see A/73/PV.24).
Today  we  are  seeing  a  constant  increase  in  the 
norms  of  international  law.  At  the  same  time,  the 
fundamental  rules  and  achievements  of  international 
law  are  being  challenged.  At  a  time  like  this,  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  more  than  ever  a 
vital  institution.  As  the  principal  legal  organ  of  the 
United Nations, it makes proceedings for the peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts  available  to  States.  Together 
with other central institutions such as the International 
Criminal Court, the International Tribunal for the Law 
of the Sea and the International Court of Arbitration, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  represents  a  major 
pillar of the rules-based international order. It makes a 
decisive contribution to the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security.  Germany  would  therefore  like  to 
underscore its ongoing and unwavering support for the 
Court as a mechanism for the settlement of disputes and 
promoting conflict resolution based on the rule of law.
(spoke in English)
The  Russian  Federation  has  likewise  pledged  to 
eradicate racial discrimination but is doing the opposite 
in Ukraine. In Crimea, which it has illegally occupied, 
I would like to highlight two aspects in particular.
First, as we are all aware, the Court’s jurisdiction is based 
on the consent of the States concerned. That is a well-
18-33996
9/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
established principle of international law, enshrined in 
article 36 of the Statute of the Court, which allows for 
the exercise of jurisdiction, when consent is given on 
an ad hoc basis, with regard to a specific dispute, but 
also when consent is granted in advance, on the basis of 
a general declaration by a State. Germany submitted a 
general declaration in 2008 under article 36, paragraph 
2, of the Statute, thereby accepting the jurisdiction of 
the Court as compulsory. We encourage all other States 
to consider taking a similar step.
Secondly, however, the reverse side of that principle 
means  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  cannot 
settle  disputes  between  parties  without  their  consent. 
That is particularly important considering the Court’s 
jurisdiction,  which  not  only  covers  contentious  cases 
but  also  advisory  opinions  on  general  legal  questions 
requested  by  organs  of  the  United  Nations  such  as 
the  General  Assembly.  Any  attempts  to  blur  the  line 
between  those  two  aspects  would  put  the  Court  in  a 
difficult position.
(spoke in French)
In conclusion, we have observed an increase in the 
number of cases brought to the Court over the past few 
years.  We  welcome  that  development,  which  reflects 
the fact that more and more countries are turning to the 
Court  to  resolve  their  conflicts.  Of  course,  that  ever-
greater workload poses a challenge with regard to the 
Court’s  capacities,  but  one  that  the  Court  has  shown 
itself  capable  of  coping  with.  We  must  all  make  sure 
that continues to be the case in future. The International 
Court of Justice is the main instrument for the peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts  between  States.  Let  us  use  it, 
protect it and maintain it together.
Ms. Yánez Loza (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): First of 
all, I would like to thank the President of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  for 
presenting the report on the activities of the Court for the 
period from 1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018 (A/73/4).
One of the main objectives of our Organization, as 
enshrined in the Preamble to the Charter of the United 
Nations,  is  to  create  conditions  in  which  justice  and 
respect for obligations arising from treaties and other 
sources  of  international  law  can  be  maintained.  The 
International Court of Justice, as the principal judicial 
organ of the United Nations and the only international 
tribunal  with  general  jurisdiction  under  international 
law,  enjoys  all  the  prerogatives  it  needs  to  be  able  to 
promote and achieve all those objectives.
The  Republic  of  Ecuador  firmly  believes  that  the 
rule of law is the basis of the international system and 
that the peaceful settlement of disputes, in accordance 
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Charter  and  the 
Statute  of  the  Court,  particularly  Articles  33  and  94 
of  the  Charter,  is  essential  to  international  peace  and 
security. We are therefore keenly interested in the work 
of the International Court of Justice and have supported 
it with all possible means.
The  report  presented  this  morning  details  the 
Court’s heavy workload. I would like to highlight the 
decisions handed down this year in important cases on 
diverse  issues,  as  well  as  pending  litigation  affecting 
countries  on  four  different  continents.  The  latter 
highlights the Court’s universal nature and its integrity, 
impartiality and independence. The Court also handed 
down 13 orders, held public hearings on three cases and 
received requests for advisory opinions by the General 
Assembly, which we have followed very closely.
We  have  seen  the  volume  of  work  of  the  Court 
increase  considerably  over  the  past  20  years,  which 
reflects the confidence that States have in the Court and 
in submitting their disputes to it. It is worth mentioning 
the fundamental role played by the Registry of the Court 
in  maintaining  high  levels  of  efficiency  and  quality, 
thereby providing a swift response to urgent cases and 
situations.  It  is  essential  to  ensure  that  the  Court  has 
at its disposal all the necessary resources and funds to 
fulfil its mission. We are confident that it will continue 
to work impartially to fairly resolve all the cases and 
controversies submitted to it. The Republic of Ecuador 
reiterates its full support, commitment and respect for 
its decisions.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  wishing  the  judges 
of the Court every success in their current and future 
work. We encourage them to continue defending legal 
equality  among  States  as  a  way  to  achieve  genuine 
international peace and security.
Ms.  Thongnopnua  Yvard 
(Thailand):  My 
delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation  to 
Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf for the comprehensive 
report  on  the  activities  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice over the past year (A/73/4). We would also like 
to thank all the judges and other staff of the Court for 
their tireless efforts in the service of international law.
Thailand  notes  that  the  Court  continued  to  be 
very  active  during  the  reporting  period.  It  rendered 
four  judgments,  handed  down  13  orders,  held  three 
10/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
public hearings and was seized of five new contentious 
cases. The cases that remain on its docket cover a wide 
array of complex issues and involve States from every 
continent. We appreciate the Court’s efforts to manage 
those cases efficiently, despite their growing diversity 
and complexity.
The  increasing  number  of  cases  presented  to  the 
Court confirms the full confidence that Member States 
have  in  the  Court  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of 
the  United  Nations  in  safeguarding  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter and maintaining international 
peace and security. Through its judgments and advisory 
opinions,  the  Court  plays  an  indispensable  role  and 
contributes to the pacific settlement of disputes and the 
advancement of the rule of law.
(spoke in French)
My delegation studied with great interest the Court’s 
judgment rendered on 2 February on the case of Certain 
Activities carried out by Nicaragua in the Border Area 
(Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua),  which  is  the  Court’s  first 
compensation case for environmental damage.
The  case  of  Obligation  to  Negotiate  Access  to 
the Pacific Ocean (Bolivia v. Chile),  where  the  Court 
examined what might give rise to an obligation under 
international  law,  clarifies  the  role  of  customary 
international  law  as  well  as  that  of  the  Vienna 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties  in  that  regard. 
Thailand welcomes that decision as a useful guideline 
for  determining  what  constitutes  a  legally  binding 
obligation  under  international  law.  Thailand  also 
agrees with the Court’s approach in observing that an 
obligation to negotiate is merely an obligation of means 
and not an obligation of results.
Thailand  will  continue  to  follow  the  work  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  very  closely.  The 
jurisprudence  of  the  Court  and  the  wisdom  imparted 
by  the  Judges  in  its  decisions  contribute  both  to  the 
clarification  and 
the  progressive  development  of 
international  law.  In  addition,  through  its  advisory 
opinions,  the  Court  has  also  contributed  to  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes without having to hold 
adversarial and lengthy proceedings. As such, Thailand 
will continue to encourage the General Assembly, the 
Security Council and other organs of the United Nations, 
as well as the specialized agencies, to make greater use 
of the International Court of Justice and support its role 
in  issuing  advisory  opinions  on  important  questions 
and topics, in accordance with Article 96 of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
Mr.  Bermúdez  Álvarez  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Uruguay  is  grateful  for  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice (A/73/4) and congratulates 
the Judges on the intense work done during the period 
covered by the annual report presented today. We would 
like to highlight the fact of the many issues submitted 
for  the  Court’s  consideration,  in  both  litigious  claims 
and advisory opinions.
Five new cases had been brought before the Court 
by 1 August, while there were 17 pending cases as of 
31  July,  with  decisions  having  been  handed  down  on 
some of them. The Court’s rulings and advisory opinions 
are always based on in-depth legal analysis and reflect 
the  independence  and  objectivity  of  a  judicial  organ 
with prestige and responsibility. It is essential that we 
Member States give our full support to the Court and its 
work by reaffirming our commitment to law and justice 
in the resolution of matters submitted to its jurisdiction.
Uruguay  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
reiterate  its  complete  adherence  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
rights of peoples, the principles of law and the fulfilment 
of treaties. Our foreign policy is based on respect for 
such  commitments.  Faithful  to  those  principles,  we 
have always promoted the development of international 
law, while our jurists have contributed to the generation 
of  norms  of  international  law  by  concluding  treaties 
that  have  contributed  to  its  codification.  Throughout 
history, distinguished Uruguayan jurists have played a 
fundamental role and held a position of prestige in the 
field of international law, among them Eduardo Jiménez 
de Aréchaga, who was both a member and President of 
the Court.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  one  of  the 
principal organs of the United Nations and is in charge 
of dispensing justice, not only for Member States that 
have accepted its jurisdiction in their respective treaties 
but  also  for  those  who  accede  to  it  voluntarily  for 
concrete cases. Since the peaceful settlement of disputes 
is  one  of  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  the 
Court and its Statute have been — and are — intrinsic 
to  the  United  Nations  system  since  its  inception.  We 
rely on the work of the International Court of Justice as 
a guarantee in defence of multilateralism.
Uruguay  has  been  a  defender  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  having  been  one  of  the  first 
18-33996
11/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
States  to  accept  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Court of Justice and incorporate it into its international 
agreements. Uruguay has respected its rulings and has 
received  its  advisory  opinions  as  relevant  input  into 
international  law.  The  Court  has  expanded  the  scope 
of the matters submitted to its expertise by taking on 
cases  of  humanitarian  law  and  international  human 
rights law and by incorporating concepts and including 
in its judgments citations from other tribunals.
The Court plays a fundamental role in maintaining 
and  promoting  the  rule  of  law,  contributing  to  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  and  strengthening 
and  developing  international  law.  It  is  the  duty  of  all 
States  to  defend  its  independence  and  integrity.  As 
a  judicial  organ,  it  is  essential  that  its  judgments  be 
respected and complied with.
to 
I should not conclude without reiterating Uruguay’s 
commitment 
the  progressive 
development  and  codification  of  international  law,  as 
well as our respect for the International Court of Justice 
and its detailed and well-founded judgments.
the  Charter  and 
Ms.  Al  Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would 
like to thank the President for convening this important 
meeting,  as  well  as  to  welcome  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  whom  I  thank  for  his 
comprehensive briefing.
The  General  Assembly  has  a  keen  interest  in  its 
annual  debate  held  to  listen  to  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  provide  Member 
States  with  an  opportunity  to  make  comments  and 
renew  their  support  for  the  Court.  It  is  a  testament 
to  the  crucial  role  the  Court  plays  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes. States’ respect for the decisions 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is  therefore  a 
test  of  their  commitment  to  international  law  and  the 
principles of friendly relations and cooperation among 
States,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. Non-compliance with the Court’s decisions is 
considered  illegitimate  internationally  and  a  violation 
of  the  commitments  imposed  by  international  law. 
It  also  undermines  international  efforts  to  maintain 
international peace and security.
In  view  of  the  risks  that  non-compliance  with 
the  decisions  and  rulings  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  entails,  compliance  with  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  this  international  Organization  requires 
that  the  Court’s  decisions  not  be  compromised.  Ways 
must  be  found  to  ensure  that  States  implement  the 
decisions of the Court in good faith. The San Francisco 
Conference,  which  established  the  United  Nations, 
viewed  non-compliance  with  the  Court’s  decisions  as 
a hostile act.
The  State  of  Qatar  has  always  upheld  the  role 
played  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  in  accordance  with 
Article 33 of the Charter, and has contributed over the 
past  two  decades  to  the  prevention  and  settlement  of 
many disputes in our region, with a view to promoting 
efforts  aimed  at  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. In that regard, our record proves that we have 
sought  recourse  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
and  respected  its  decisions.  My  country  implemented 
Court  decisions  in  good  faith  more  than  two  decades 
ago. We take the opportunity afforded by this meeting 
to renew Qatar’s support for the Court in the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes.  In  line  with  that  commitment, 
we have always made use of the mechanisms provided 
by 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  in  the  settlement  of 
current disputes and protecting the rights of Qataris.
judicial  bodies,  particularly 
international 
With regard to the case concerning the Application 
of the International Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms of Racial Discrimination (Qatar v. United Arab 
Emirates), on 23 July the Court issued an order to the 
United Arab Emirates wherein the latter is committed to 
reuniting Qatari families that were separated because of 
measures taken by the United Arab Emirates on 5 June 
2017, allowing Qatari students affected by its decision 
to continue their education in the United Arab Emirates 
or to obtain their educational records and continue their 
studies elsewhere and allowing Qataris who have been 
affected  access  to  courts  and  other  judicial  bodies  in 
the United Arab Emirates.
The objective of the decision by the International 
Court  of  Justice  is  to  protect  the  interests  and  rights 
of  Qataris  against  the  discriminatory  measures  taken 
by the United Arab Emirates. That decision confirms 
our determination to deal with the crisis, its effects on 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
and its humanitarian consequences within the context 
of 
international  and  bilateral 
conventions and current international mechanisms for 
the settlement of disputes.
international 
law, 
In conclusion, the State of Qatar reiterates its full 
support  for  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  the  important  role  it  plays.  We  renew  our 
12/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
commitment  to  its  decisions  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  We  will  continue  to 
support its efforts for the maintenance of international 
peace and security.
Mr.  Jiménez  Piernas  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Let me begin by congratulating the International Court 
of  Justice  on  its  work  since  the  previous  reporting 
period.  The  Court  delivered  six  judgments  this  year, 
while  another  six  cases  were  filed  with  the  Registry. 
That  reflects  the  confidence  that  States  have  in 
the  Court  as  their  preferred  venue  for  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes within the international system, 
as  the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
stated earlier (see A/73/PV.24).
and 
adapted 
its 
procedural 
It  is  undeniable  that  the  Court  has  been  able  to 
adapt  to  what  is  required  of  it  and  has  accordingly 
developed 
rules. 
Nonetheless,  it  is  appropriate  to  comment  on  certain 
matters  that  in  our  view,  continue  to  go  unchecked 
owing  to  a  lack  of  precision,  and  that  if  addressed 
would  promote  the  principle  of  procedural  economy, 
strengthen its effectiveness and improve its procedural 
transparency.  The  following  considerations  are  not 
a  purely  theoretical  exercise  but  are  rather  based  on 
practical experience before the Court. Given the time 
constraints, we are circulating a written version of this 
statement.  I  will  focus  only  on  some  suggestions  for 
conducting the Court’s judicial work more effectively, 
based on cooperation and collaboration, and I will not 
limit myself to courtesies.
First,  with  regard  to  promoting  the  principle  of 
procedural  economy,  Spain  believes 
that  without 
needing  to  reform  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  several 
measures could be taken to shorten and streamline the 
Court’s written and oral proceedings. With regard to the 
written phase, the practice of a single round of written 
arguments  should  be  encouraged,  allowing  States  to 
request a second round only in extremely exceptional 
circumstances.  It  is  not  surprising  that  in  order  to 
ascertain  the  parties’  arguments,  it  is  much  more 
useful to read the applicant’s reply and the respondent’s 
rejoinder  rather  than  the  memorial  and  counter-
memorial.  Concerning  oral  proceedings,  pursuant  to 
article  61  of  the  rules  of  Court,  prior  to  a  hearing  its 
members could indicate or identify any points of fact or 
issues of law on which the parties should focus during 
their  oral  arguments.  That  would  prevent  the  parties 
from making drawn-out statements that make it difficult 
to  identify  the  most  relevant  points  of  contention. 
Without  having  to  resort  to  the  strict  time  limits  that 
are imposed by other international courts, such as the 
European  Court  of  Human  Rights  and  the  Court  of 
Justice of the European Union, on oral arguments, oral 
proceedings  should  be  more  expeditious,  and  above 
all,  we  should  find  ways  of  making  members  of  the 
Court  more  proactive  during  that  phase,  beyond  their 
authority to ask the parties questions at any time.
Secondly, as a means for streamlining proceedings 
before 
the  Court,  strict  procedural  requirements 
for  counter-claims  may  undermine  the  principle  of 
procedural  economy.  Discussion  on  the  admissibility 
of  such  claims  may  in  practice  be  used  as  a  delaying 
tactic. It would be worth considering possibly reducing 
those  requirements,  which,  in  our  view,  would  be  a 
more pragmatic solution that would not undermine the 
procedural  interests  of  the  parties  to  the  dispute  and 
would result only in procedural economy.
Lastly, procedural economy is an end in itself that not 
only the parties but also the members of the Court must 
promote  and  require.  The  introduction  of  procedural 
practices that shorten the written and oral phases before 
the  Court  should  be  compatible  with  the  adoption  of 
mechanisms  that  promote  procedural  expeditiousness 
in the Court’s internal working methods. In that regard, 
our  delegation  believes  that  the  practice  of  issuing 
extensive separate and dissenting opinions, which are 
occasionally  longer  than  the  judgment  itself,  is  not, 
strictly  speaking,  in  keeping  with  the  performance 
of  judicial  functions.  International  law  should  be 
taught  and  disseminated  at  The  Hague  Academy  of 
International Law, whereas in the Great Hall of Justice 
of the Peace Palace it must be applied and interpreted. 
As  a  show  of  basic  courtesy  to  the  parties  before  the 
Court,  separate  and/or  dissenting  opinions  should  be 
limited to an examination of the points of fact and the 
issues of law relevant to the dispute.
With regard to improving the effectiveness of the 
judicial  function,  international  litigation  has  become 
increasingly  complex  in  recent  times.  That  is  a 
consequence both of the sectoralization of international 
law  and  the  inevitable  proliferation  of  international 
judicial bodies of a sectoral or regional scope, as well as 
the leading role that non-State actors such as transnational 
corporations and non-governmental organizations have 
assumed. In that regard, without making it necessary to 
introduce changes to the procedural rules governing the 
intervention of third parties, Spain believes it would be 
in the Court’s interest to establish mechanisms for third 
18-33996
13/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
parties — States, international organizations and other 
actors  —  to  submit  relevant  information  in  writing 
within  the  context  of  a  contentious  procedure.  In  the 
case of international organizations, that would enable 
them to present relevant information to the Court on the 
scope of the legal norms developed in a given regional 
or sectoral area in cases in which parties to the litigation 
are member States of the Court.
regional 
involving 
specialized 
For  example,  one  might  consider  the  scope  of 
a  given  regional  customary  rule  or  cases  in  which 
a  problem 
the  normative  coordination 
between  a 
subsystem  and 
general  international  law  arises.  With  regard  to  other 
international actors, the complexities that arise in many 
of the disputes submitted to the Court today, including 
matters relating to the protection of human rights and 
the  environment,  present  an  opportunity  not  only  for 
the  relevant  international  organizations,  but  also  for 
specialized non-governmental organizations, to provide 
complementary information that could be of interest to 
the members of the Court.
In  conclusion,  we  are  truly  pleased  with  the 
measures  announced  by  President  Judge  Yusuf  at  the 
end  of  his  statement  this  morning  regarding  changes 
to the Court’s practice with regard to the participation 
of  members  of  the  Court  in  international  arbitration, 
in  particular  investment  and  trade  arbitration,  which 
currently  allows  for  exceptional  participation  by  its 
members in inter-State arbitration only.
Mr. Llorentty Solíz (Plurinational State of Bolivia) 
(spoke in Spanish): Bolivia is a founding State Member 
of the United Nations system and, in that capacity, for 
more than half a century has participated in building a 
new legal order in which the use of force is forbidden 
and  States  commit  to  preserving  peace,  security  and 
international  justice.  Among  other  major  steps,  they 
agreed  on  various  mechanisms  for  achieving  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and established the main 
legal  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  the  International 
Court of Justice in The Hague.
The  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  commends 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  work  it  has 
done over the more than 70 years of its existence. Its 
contribution  to  the  development  of  international  law, 
peace  and  international  security  has  been  significant, 
as evidenced by the renewed interest of States in using 
it to settle their disputes by peaceful means and of the 
General Assembly in requesting advisory opinions.
The International Court of Justice has contributed 
to  the  mission  of  rendering  justice.  That  concept, 
which, together with international peace and security, is 
covered in Articles 3 and 2 of the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  was  inserted  at  the  initiative  of  Latin 
American countries, as was recalled just a few days ago 
in The Hague when we celebrated the memory of Judge 
José Gustavo Guerrero, the Court’s first President. It is 
relevant to refer to Latin American countries because 
at present we are the primary users of the International 
Court of Justice. It should be noted that in recent years 
Latin American countries have been involved in almost 
50 per cent of pending cases.
In that regard, the Court has been able to gradually 
provide solutions to diverse boundary problems and other 
issues that arose during the prolonged colonial period, 
which was not always felicitous where the delimitation 
of territories and maritime areas was concerned. In the 
early  years  of  the  lives  of  our  republics,  such  issues 
were  the  cause  of  military  conflicts,  invasions  and 
occupations that, as in the rest of the world, favoured 
the law of winner-take-all, with no international law to 
light the way to peaceful and just solutions.
One  such  conflict  occurred  in  1879,  when  Chile 
invaded Bolivia in the so-called War of the Pacific. The 
territorial limits were altered without peace treaties to 
provide definitive solutions to their consequences. It is 
worth recalling that a few years ago the International 
Court of Justice resolved the disputes over the maritime 
limits between Peru and Chile arising from that conflict, 
which also involved Peru, and defined a new maritime 
limit that resulted in Peru’s sovereign incorporation of 
20,000 square kilometres of territorial sea.
Bolivia  also  went  to  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  to  resolve  the  worst  consequence  of  that 
military  confrontation,  its  loss  of  maritime  access 
to  the  Pacific  Ocean,  by  which  it  became  a  country 
without  its  own  effective  and  sovereign  access  to  the 
sea. Far from questioning the validity of the 1904 treaty 
that established the borders between the two countries, 
Bolivia brought a very simple case to the Court, in line 
with  the  sources  of  international  law  and  especially 
with  the  purpose  of  resolving  in  good  faith  and  in  a 
peaceful way its unjust status as a landlocked country. 
The Organization of American States itself recognized 
Chile’s  obligation  to  negotiate  access  to  the  Pacific 
Ocean with Bolivia as an issue of hemispheric interest.
14/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
In  its  decision,  announced  a  few  days  ago,  the 
International Court of Justice dismissed the existence 
of  that  legal  obligation,  but  also  declared  that  this 
decision
“should not be understood as precluding the parties 
from continuing their dialogue and exchanges, in a 
spirit of good neighbourliness, to address the issues 
relating to the landlocked situation of Bolivia, the 
solution to which they have both recognized to be 
a  matter  of  mutual  interest.  With  willingness  on 
the part of the parties, meaningful negotiations can 
be undertaken.”
Bolivia  respects  this  decision,  and  it  also  hopes 
that the spirit of justice in the Court’s declaration will 
be  respected  and  fulfilled.  We  should  note  that  this 
is  not  a  matter  merely  of  mutual  interest  but  also  of 
interest  to  the  entire  hemisphere.  Its  solution  could 
contribute  to  healing  one  of  the  last  open  wounds  in 
Latin  America  and,  above  all,  to  strengthening  the 
spirit of good neighbourliness and integration between 
two brotherly peoples.
As President Evo Morales noted when he spoke to 
the General Assembly a few weeks ago,
“Bolivia is certain that whatever the International 
Court of Justice decides, it will mark a new era in 
the relationship between Bolivia and Chile so that 
we  can  face  the  future  with  righteousness  and  a 
determination  to  explore  mutually  acceptable  and 
lasting  solutions.  Our  peoples  and  their  leaders 
must unite their desire for peace and their political 
will in a single voice if they are to identify feasible, 
functional solutions that make them feel that they 
have  won  rather  than  lost.  Practical  solutions, 
forged  by  creative  and  effective  diplomacy,  have 
been  found  to  even  the  oldest  and  most  complex 
controversies in the world.” (A/73/PV.9, p. 33)
That is why the Plurinational State of Bolivia, once it 
had  received  the  judgment  of  the  Court,  immediately 
invited  Chile 
in  a 
framework of the invitation issued by the Court in the 
conclusive part of its judgment.
to  resume  bilateral  dialogue 
We  understand  perfectly  well  that  this  is  not  the 
place for further comments about a specific case or the 
reparations or correctness of the case. I have preferred 
to  note  the  importance  of  this  ruling  of  the  principal 
court of justice of the United Nations and its importance 
for the international community.
We  are  living  in  very  tense  times  with  respect  to 
international law and justice. The debate on the effective 
validity  of  international  law  seems  to  be  superseded 
by  political  and  expedient  interests,  at  least  often  in 
the United Nations. For that reason, it is important to 
look  critically  at  the  Court’s  output,  the  precedents 
it  establishes  and  its  effectiveness,  in  the  spirit  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  it  relates  to  its 
organs,  including  the  International  Court  of  Justice. 
We hope to see not only law but justice prevail, above 
and  beyond  strictly  positivist  visions  or  a  fragmented 
concept  of  common  law,  which  are  not  always  useful 
to the implementation of international justice and less 
so  for  States  that  may  have  controversial  views  with 
regard to its scope.
In  the  global  South  and  in  Latin  America,  a 
peaceful  continent  where  we  see  peaceful  solutions 
to  highly  complex  problems  being  developed  and 
achieved, we remain convinced that it is only through 
dialogue,  negotiation  and  peaceful  solutions  that  we 
can  resolve  disputes  between  States.  That  is  the  path 
that  70  years  ago  inspired  the  American  Treaty  on 
Pacific Settlement, known as the Pact of Bogotá, signed 
in April 1948. Under that instrument, our Governments 
resolved to refrain from the threat or the use of force or 
any other coercive measure to settle their disputes and 
to resort to peaceful means at all times.
The decisions of the Court must support our peoples’ 
commitment to peace and inspire the transformation of 
international law into an effective instrument of justice. 
Ultimately, it must promote new accessions to the Pact 
and  avoid  further  withdrawals.  We  are  sure  that  the 
International Court of Justice will rise to that challenge 
and we, the States, will be ready to support it.
Mr.  Alabrune  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  France,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  introducing 
the  report  on  the  Court’s  activities  (A/73/4)  and  to 
congratulate him on his election to the presidency.
I want to take this opportunity to congratulate the 
recently elected judges and those whose terms have been 
renewed. In that respect, France would like to remind 
the Assembly of the importance of the representation on 
the Court of different legal cultures and the use of two 
languages, whose balance contributes to the quality of 
the Court’s work and the authority of its jurisprudence.
The  Court’s  activity  testifies  to  its  importance  in 
the settlement of disputes between States. As the list of 
18-33996
15/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
registered cases shows, the Court has seen its litigation 
activity grow in recent decades. Seventeen contentious 
proceedings  are  currently  pending  before  the  Court. 
Since the submission of last year’s report (A/72/4), five 
motions to institute proceedings have been filed with the 
Registry. The Court delivered three judgments — two 
on the merits, one on preliminary objections — and two 
requests for the indication of provisional measures.
The  Court’s  decisions  help 
to  heal  relations 
between States and help them to reach solutions when 
other  ways  to  peacefully  settle  disputes  do  not  work. 
While the Court’s decisions are binding on the parties 
because of the res judicata authority attached to them, 
respect  for  them  and  their  due  execution  by  States 
depend  on  their  high  quality,  and  references  to  the 
Court’s jurisprudence by other international courts and 
tribunals attest to that.
In  this  time  of  challenges  to  multilateralism,  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  remains  an  essential 
institution for peace and the international legal order. 
I  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  France’s 
commitment to the Court as the principal judicial organ 
of  the  United  Nations,  and  to  reiterate  to  the  Court 
and to all its members and staff our deep gratitude for 
their work.
Mr.  Mikeladze  (Georgia):  At  the  outset,  my 
delegation joins others in thanking the President of the 
International  Court,  Justice  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed 
Yusuf, for introducing his comprehensive report on the 
work of the Court (A/73/4).
Georgia is an ardent supporter of the International 
Court  of  Justice  and  remains  committed  to  the 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Statute  of  the  Court.  The  Court  has 
established its authority as the only international court 
of a universal character. The 17 cases currently under 
the  Court’s  consideration  illustrate  the  wide  range  of 
subject matters before it. Georgia is one of the 73 States 
that recognize the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction, in 
accordance with article 36 of the Statute.
The  importance  of  international  law  is  a  basic 
threshold  for  every  civilized  nation.  In  our  era,  when 
every area of interaction of the international community 
increasingly 
international 
legal rules and developing them further are crucial to 
achieving  sustainable  peace  and  stability  at  both  the 
international and the domestic levels of State affairs.
intersects,  adhering 
to 
Since  the  restoration  of  Georgia’s  independence 
in  1991,  the  incorporation  of  the  international  legal 
framework  into  our  internal  legal  system  has  helped 
to  shape  our  basic  democratic  institutions  and  given 
impetus  to  the  constant  evolution  of  the  State’s 
capabilities.  The  decisions  and  advisory  opinions  of 
the International Court of Justice were closely analysed 
by  representatives  of  Georgia’s  legislative,  executive 
and  judicial  branches  and  subsequently  incorporated 
into  Georgia’s  educational  system,  resulting  in  a 
comprehensive  understanding  of  the  Court’s  role  in 
developing the legal rules of inter-State relations.
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  that  Georgia  remains 
committed to its obligations under international law and 
human rights. Despite the illegal occupation of 20 per 
cent of its territory and the ongoing aggression against 
it, Georgia acknowledges the primacy of the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  upholds  the  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and the 
Statute of the International Court of Justice.
Mr.  Khoshroo  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At 
the  outset,  my  delegation  thanks  the  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed 
Yusuf,  for  introducing  the  Court’s  detailed  report 
(A/73/4)  on  its  judicial  activities  over  the  past  year. 
We also take this opportunity to commend the judges 
and  all  members  of  the  Court  for  their  unwavering 
commitment to and sense of duty in upholding the rule 
of law at the international level.
I align myself with the statement delivered by the 
representative of Venezuela on behalf of the Movement 
of Non-Aligned Countries (see A/73/PV.24).
In  recent  years,  the  importance  of  the  rule  of 
law  in  international  relations  has  been  recognized 
increasingly  foten  by  the  international  community  of 
States. The Court, as the principal judicial organ of the 
United Nations, has authority and influence that cannot 
be replaced or matched by other United Nations organs 
or  even  other  international  judicial  bodies.  Its  role  is 
critical  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes and to preserving the international legal order, 
as  well  as  the  common  interests  of  the  international 
community of States as a whole.
One  of  the  key  achievements  of  multilateral 
diplomacy at the international level was the conclusion 
of  the  Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA), 
endorsed  by  Security  Council  resolution  2231  (2015), 
which in its thirteenth preambular paragraph emphasized 
16/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
“promoting and facilitating the development of normal 
economic  and  trade  contacts  and  cooperation  with 
Iran”  and  called  on  all  Member  States  to  support  the 
implementation of the JCPOA.
and that payments and other transfers of funds will not 
be  subject  to  restrictions.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like 
to  underline  the  following  points  with  respect  to  the 
indicated provisional measures.
It is very tragic that the United States, a permanent 
member of the Security Council, is now punishing and 
threatening  sovereign  States  not  for  violating  but  for 
abiding by a Security Council resolution. The Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  has  demonstrated  its  good  faith  by 
adopting  and  implementing  the  JCPOA  in  a  way  that 
has won repeated approval of its compliance from the 
International Atomic Energy Association.
Against that backdrop, on 8 May the United States 
unilaterally  withdrew  from  the  instrument,  in  blatant 
rejection  of  good  faith  and  in  violation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  2231  (2015)  (2015),  declaring  its 
intention  to  impose  the  strongest  sanctions  regime  in 
history. Needless to say, those sanctions are illegal and 
run counter to well-established principles enshrined in 
the Charter of the United Nations and accepted by the 
community  of  nations,  such  as  the  sovereign  equality 
of  States,  and  the  principles  of  non-intervention  and 
non-interference  in  internal  affairs  of  Member  States 
and  of  freedom  of  international  trade  and  navigation. 
In addition, the imposed sanctions contravene various 
provisions  of  the  1955  Treaty  of  Amity,  Economic 
Relations and Consular Rights.
In  order  to  legally  and  effectively  counter  this 
arrogant  policy  of  violating  the  rules  of  international 
law, the Islamic Republic of Iran, on 16 July, filed an 
application,  together  with  a  request  for  provisional 
measures, to the International Court of Justice in order 
to protect its rights under the bilateral Treaty of Amity 
between the two countries, which were infringed as the 
result of the reimposition of sanctions previously lifted 
under the JCPOA.
Earlier  this  month,  on  3  October,  the  Court 
unanimously 
indicated  provisional  measures  and 
specified that the United States is obliged, in accordance 
with its obligations under the 1955 Treaty of Amity, to 
remove  any  impediments  arising  from  the  measures 
announced  following  its  withdrawal  from  the  Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  to  free  exportation  to 
the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran in certain 
domains. In its ruling, the Court also obliges the United 
States to ensure that it will issue the relevant licences 
and  grant  the  necessary  authorizations  for  the  goods 
and  services  related  to  the  items  specified  in  orders 
First,  the  Court’s  unanimous  order  is  a  clear 
testament to the illegality of the United States sanctions 
against  our  country  and  its  people,  at  least  in  the 
specified areas.
Secondly, in paragraph 100 of its order, the Court 
reaffirms  that  its  “orders  on  provisional  measures 
have  binding  effect”  and  thus  create  international 
legal obligations for the party to whom the provisional 
measures are addressed. The United States is therefore 
under  an  obligation  to  comply  with  the  order  of 
provisional measures as indicated by the Court, and any 
non-compliance will make it internationally responsible.
Thirdly, the Court considers that certain rights of 
Iran under the 1955 Treaty invoked in these proceedings 
that  it  has  found  plausible  are  of  such  a  nature  that 
disregarding them may have irreparable consequences. 
The Court indicates that the measures adopted by the 
United  States  have  the  potential  to  endanger  civil-
aviation  safety  and  may  have  a  serious  detrimental 
impact on the health and lives of individuals within the 
territory  of  Iran.  There  is  no  question  that  this  order 
could play an important role in preventing irreparable 
harm being done by United States actions to the rights 
of Iran and Iranians under the Treaty of Amity while 
this case is under consideration before the Court.
Fourthly,  in  its  provisional  measures,  the  Court 
indicates an additional measure directed at the parties 
to the dispute with a view to preventing the dispute’s 
aggravation or extension. The United States is thereby 
under  an  obligation  to  refrain  from  any  action  that 
might  aggravate  or  extend  the  dispute  before  the 
Court or make it difficult to resolve. We maintain that 
the  imminent  implementation  of  an  additional  set  of 
sanctions by the United States, scheduled to be imposed 
after 4 November 2018, would certainly lie within the 
scope of prohibited acts, with an aggravating effect on 
the  dispute  at  hand,  and  would  qualify  as  illegal  and 
wrongful acts contrary to the Court’s dictum.
Fifthly, we note the letter dated 4 October from the 
Secretary-General  addressed  to  the  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  transmitting  a  copy  of  the  Court’s 
order 
the  aforementioned  provisional 
measures (S/2018/899). We also recall Article 94 of the 
Charter of the United Nations, which stipulates that
indicating 
18-33996
17/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
“[e]ach  Member  of 
the  United  Nations 
undertakes  to  comply  with  the  decision  of  the 
International Court of Justice in any case to which 
it is a party”.
We  therefore  call  on  the  United  States  to  implement 
the  provisional  measures,  including  refraining  from 
measures  such  as  wrongful  sanctions  that  would 
aggravate the dispute.
Sixthly,  to  help  preserve  the  primary  role  of  the 
International Court of Justice as the principal judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  other  States  are  also 
expected  to  refrain  from  assisting  the  United  States 
from 
transactions 
involving  specified  items,  which  would  amount  to  a 
violation of the Court’s order and would be tantamount 
to providing assistance to the wrongdoer.
imposing  any 
impediments 
to 
Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  that  the  Islamic 
Republic of Iran acknowledges the importance that the 
international  community  attaches  to  the  work  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  especially  at  a  time  of 
ever-increasing  challenges  in  today’s  interdependent 
and globalized world.
Mr.  Atlassi  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset, I would like to thank Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed 
Yusuf, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for introducing the report contained in document А/73/4 
on  the  activities  of  the  Court  during  the  period  from 
1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018. On behalf of Morocco, I 
also congratulate him on his election as President of the 
Court. I also welcome the judges of the Court who are 
here with us in the Assembly today.
Established  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
as  the  Organization’s  principal  judicial  organ,  the 
International Court of Justice is the only international 
court  of  universal  character  with  both  contentious 
and  advisory  jurisdiction.  It  plays  a  vital  role  in  the 
maintenance  of  peace,  given  the  contentious  cases 
before it, and in strengthening the rule of law. It is the 
Court that is most accessible and most often requested 
to decide on disputes and litigation between States. We 
note that in the exercise of their sovereignty, States all 
over the world have resorted to the Court with a view to 
resolving bilateral and even trilateral disputes relating 
to various contentious cases. That testifies both to their 
confidence in the Court and to the universal nature of 
its jurisdiction.
Because of that, the Court’s workload has increased 
in  recent  years.  Just  for  the  period  in  question,  the 
report  indicates  that  since  1  August  2017,  five  new 
contentious cases have been referred to the Court and 
that the number of cases on its list as of 31 July was 17, 
involving a wide variety of issues and confirming the 
general nature of the Court’s jurisdiction. The Court’s 
activity as a whole forms part of a logical framework in 
seeking the peaceful settlement of disputes and therefore 
plays an eminent and valuable role complementary to 
that of the Security Council in ensuring international 
peace  and  security.  Similarly,  through  its  judgments 
and  advisory  opinions,  the  Court  helps  to  develop, 
clarify,  refine  and  strengthen  international  law  and 
makes a very important contribution to the rule of law 
in the service of peace.
its  publications, 
It  also  ensures  the  dissemination  of  its  decisions 
through 
the  development  of 
multimedia  platforms  and  its  website,  updated  to 
facilitate  consultation.  Through  its  activities  and 
events organized at universities and institutes, as well 
as  its  training  programmes  in  international  law  for 
students,  it  unquestionably  contributes  to  training  in 
international law.
Furthermore, 
international 
law  with  regard  to  the  implementation  of  multilateral 
treaties  and  conventions.  More  than  300  bilateral  or 
multilateral  treaties  and  conventions  provide  for  the 
Court’s jurisdiction to rule on disputes concerning their 
application or interpretation. In addition, a number of 
disputes  submitted  to  the  Court  were  decided  not  by 
a  ruling  of  the  Court  but  simply  because  preliminary 
measures had helped to resolve them.
the  Court  clarifies 
In conclusion, since today we live in a world that 
is  undergoing  profound  and  rapid  transformation  and 
major  challenges  —  ranging  from  climate  change  to 
socioeconomic  upheavals  and,  in  particular,  threats 
to  peace  and  stability  in  the  world,  primarily  from 
terrorism  and  violent  extremism  —  in  its  work  to 
promote  and  strengthen  the  rule  of  law,  including 
clarifying international law, the Court must take such 
developments  into  account  in  order  to  deal  with  the 
requests submitted to it as a result of that transformation 
and change.
Mr.  Carrillo  Gómez 
in 
Spanish):  The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay 
thanks  Judge  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf,  President  of 
(Paraguay) 
(spoke 
18/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  presenting  the 
report on the work of the Court (A/73/4).
Given  an 
international 
landscape  marked  by 
political uncertainty and economic volatility, Paraguay 
works  actively  for  stability  and  common  peace  and 
the  strengthening  of  the  multilateral  system  and 
international  cooperation.  In  that  context,  we  want  to 
contribute to this debate by highlighting the importance 
of the work of the Court, the value of its decisions and 
advisory opinions and its role in relation to the various 
stakeholders of the international community. We would 
also like to share our national experience of the Court 
and to call for strengthening its legitimacy and work, 
which  we  believe  will  increase  the  legitimacy  of  the 
multilateral system.
First,  we  emphasize  the  importance  of  the  work 
of the International Court of Justice, borne out by the 
increase in its activities, the geographical diversity of 
the cases that it hears and the origin of its applicants, 
as  well  as  the  variety  of  issues  submitted  for  its 
consideration.  The  universal  character  and  general 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
complemented by the reputation and worthiness of its 
judges, have made it a reliable promoter of international 
law,  in  accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  United  Nations  and  the  primacy  of 
international  law.  Its  work  to  clarify  and  develop 
international  law  includes  the  law’s  most  diverse 
aspects,  such  as  consular  relations,  the  protection  of 
human rights, the international responsibility of States 
and the interpretation of treaties, to name only a few. It 
is an effective tool for preventing confrontation and the 
use of force in the settlement of disputes between States.
Secondly,  we  want  to  highlight  the  contribution 
of  the  decisions  and  the  advisory  opinions  of  the 
Court  to  the  international  legal  framework.  The 
jurisprudence  arising 
its  work  contributes 
to  ensuring  predictability  in  the  interpretation  of 
customary  international  law  and  generally  acceptable 
norms. Its efforts to publicize its work and disseminate 
international law also help to raise awareness about the 
importance of the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes  and  the  significance  of  treaties  and  their 
observance,  implementation  and  permanence  over 
time. We believe that the use of Spanish as an official 
language of the Court would benefit the international 
legal system, and we advocate for that.
from 
Thirdly, we note the role of the International Court 
of  Justice  in  relation  to  the  international  community. 
We  emphasize  that  the  Court  is  the  best  option  for 
peace for the peoples of the United Nations who want 
to establish conditions in which justice and respect for 
the obligations arising from treaties and other sources 
of  international  law  can  be  maintained,  as  stated  in 
the  Preamble  to  the  Organization’s  founding  Charter. 
With  regard  to  the  Court’s  position  in  relation  to  the 
General Assembly and the Security Council, we think it 
appropriate to consider the importance of the decisions 
of  the  most  democratic  and  representative  organ  of 
the  United  Nations  in  ensuring  compliance  with  the 
Court’s decisions by all Member States, as well as the 
limitations inherent in the Security Council’s structure 
to  ensure  compliance  with  the  Court’s  decisions,  a 
power provided for in Article 94 of the Charter. Such 
consideration  could  help  to  prevent  contempt  and 
provide  guarantees  of  legal  certainty.  We  emphasize 
the  obligation  of  States  to  comply  with  the  decisions 
of the Court in any case to which they are party. The 
fulfilment of such obligations must be complete and in 
good  faith.  We  believe  that  States’  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction  helps  to  strengthen 
the  effectiveness  and  universality  of  the  system  for 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes. 
With respect to other stakeholders of the international 
community, we note the multiplier effect of the Court’s 
publications and other initiatives, such as internships, 
in  disseminating  international  law  and  in  raising 
awareness of the importance of the multilateral dispute 
settlement system.
We  also  believe  it  important  to  share  Paraguay’s 
connection to the International Court of Justice, which 
can  be  understood  only  in  the  context  of  the  long-
standing  legal  tradition  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes of Latin American and Caribbean 
States. The so-called Gondra Treaty of 1923, in honour 
of  the  Paraguayan  intellectual  Don  Manuel  Gondra, 
was adopted at the fifth Pan-American Conference to 
avoid or prevent conflicts between American States. It 
was one of the first manifestations of hopes for creating 
a  system  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes on the continent.
Unfortunately,  Paraguay’s  role  in  that  process  of 
establishing American international law declined with 
the  outbreak  of  war  in  the  1930s,  but    re-emerged, 
strengthened, 
the  following  decade.  Paraguay 
accepted ipso facto the jurisdiction of the International 
in 
18-33996
19/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
Court of Justice in relation to any other American State 
in the Pact of Bogotá of 1948, or the American Treaty 
on Pacific Solutions.
to 
In  1996,  Paraguay  very  broadly  extended  its 
acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction 
ipso facto with regard to legal disputes provided for in 
its  Statute  without  special  agreement,  in  accordance 
with article 36 and with the sole limitation of ratione 
temporis.  Regarding  obligations  pursuant 
the 
jurisdiction of the Court, this year the Government of 
Paraguay ratified the 1933 Montevideo Convention on 
Rights  and  Duties  of  States,  a  landmark  commitment 
undertaken  by  American  nations  to  maintain  peace 
and settle their disputes by recognized peaceful means. 
The Convention provides for the rights and obligations 
of States and sets out and establishes the principles of 
the  political  existence  of  the  State,  its  conservation 
and  prosperity,  the  free  determination  of  its  cultural, 
political  and  economic  life,  its  legal  equality  and  the 
inviolability of its territory.
Finally,  we  call  for  the  strengthening  of  the 
legitimacy and for the endorsement of the work of the 
International  Court  of  Justice  by  providing  adequate 
resources for its proper functioning and by supporting 
the Secretary-General’s Trust Fund to Assist States in 
the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the  International 
Court of Justice, actions that we believe will also help 
to strengthen the legitimacy of the multilateral system 
of which the International Court of Justice is a part.
Mr. Elshenawy (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, I would like to thank Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed 
Yusuf, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for presenting the report of the Court on its work and 
activities  between  1  August  2017  and  31  July  2018 
(A/73/4).  We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  representatives  of  Venezuela,  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, and 
the Gambia, on behalf of the Group of African States 
(see A/73/PV.24).
Egypt  firmly  believes  in  the  important  role  of 
the International Court of Justice as the main judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  We  see  that  the  change 
in  the  political  and  legal  environment  between  the 
establishment  of  the  Court  in  June  1945  and  the 
initiation  of  its  work  in  April  1946  and  the  present 
day  emphasizes  the  importance  of  the  Court’s  role  in 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between  States, 
pursuant to the Charter of the United Nations, and in 
advancing and strengthening the rule of law.
The  number  of  cases  before  the  Court  and  of  its 
advisory  opinions  have  increased.  There  are  diverse 
cases  submitted  to  it  on  topics  such  as  territorial  and 
maritime  disputes,  consular  rights,  human  rights, 
environmental  damage  and 
the  conservation  of 
biological  resources,  international  responsibility  and 
reparation  for  damages,  the  immunity  of  States,  their 
representatives  and  assets,  and  the  interpretation  and 
application  of  international  treaties  and  conventions. 
The  cases 
involve  States  from  four  continents, 
including six in Africa, seven in the Americas, six in 
Asia and five in Europe. All of that demonstrates the 
universality  of  the  Court  and  the  absolute  trust  that 
exists  in  it  and  in  its  judges,  all  of  whom  are  highly 
qualified  and  deserve  the  respect  and  appreciation  of 
the  international  community.  We  therefore  emphasize 
the  importance  of  respecting  and  implementing  the 
Court’s decisions and advisory opinions.
Nevertheless,  at  a  time  when  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  is  considering  an  increasing  number 
of  cases,  we  note  that  recently  it  has  received  only 
one  request  for  an  advisory  opinion,  namely,  on  the 
Legal  consequences  of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos 
Archipelago  from  Mauritius  in  1965,  in  accordance 
with Article 96 of the Charter. In that regard, we would 
like to stress the importance of benefiting from the role 
of  the  Court  with  respect  to  its  advisory  opinions,  as 
set out in the Charter, particularly on issues that give 
rise to legal disputes. In the same vein, we encourage 
States  to  recognize  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  accordance  with 
Article 36 of its Statute and as requested by the General 
Assembly in resolution 70/118.
In  addition,  we  welcome  the  important  role  of 
the  Court  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law.  Through  its 
judgments and advisory opinions, the Court contributes 
to the development and interpretation of international 
law.  It  also  strives  to  ensure  a  clear  understanding  of 
its decisions, which are disseminated around the world 
through its publications and its updated website.
In  the  light  of  all  of  this,  Egypt  believes  that  the 
General  Assembly  should  provide  the  International 
Court of Justice with the necessary financial resources 
without  any  reduction  so  that  it  has  the  best  possible 
conditions  for  enabling  it  to  implement  its  mandate 
as  the  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and 
20/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
given  the  unprecedented  complexity  and  level  of  its 
activities. We know that Member States have repeatedly 
emphasized the need to provide the necessary financial 
resources  to  the  Court,  particularly  in  view  of  its 
administrative independence.
In  order  to  ensure  that  States  can  settle  their 
disputes through the International Court of Justice, we 
urge  them,  especially  those  in  the  best  position  to  do 
so, to contribute to the Secretary-General’s Trust Fund, 
established for that purpose in 1989.
In  conclusion,  Egypt  once  again 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  its  President  and 
assures them of its continued support.
thanks 
Mr. Sipaco Ribala (Equatorial Guinea) (spoke in 
Spanish): At the outset, I would like to welcome Judge 
Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  and  to  thank  him  for  his 
outstanding presentation of the report on the excellent 
work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/73/4), 
in  which  he  concisely  and  clearly  briefed  us  on  the 
achievements  of  the  Court  and  its  current  challenges. 
I would also like to congratulate him on his election as 
President of the Court.
The Republic of Equatorial Guinea associates itself 
with the statements made by the representatives of the 
Gambia, on behalf of the Group of African States, the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, and Cabo Verde, 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking 
Countries (see A/73/PV.24).
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea  supports  and  advocates  for  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes  through  robust 
preventive  diplomacy  and  the  promotion  of  frank 
dialogue  and  inclusive  negotiations.  We  therefore 
believe  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has  a 
fundamental role to play in the peaceful settlement of 
international  disputes  and  in  strengthening  the  rule 
of  law  by  promoting,  applying,  interpreting  and  even 
developing international law. The role of the Court is 
well  recognized  in  the  number  and  variety  of  cases 
submitted  to  it,  as  noted  in  the  report.  The  trust  that 
States,  including  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea, 
place  in  the  Court  emphasizes  its  determination  to 
seek  a  peaceful  and  fair  settlement  of  every  dispute 
submitted  to  it  and  thereby  prevent  the  use  of  force 
or  the  application  of  unilateral  sanctions,  which  can 
sometimes have negative effects and lead to new waves 
of  violations  of  international  law  or  similar  issues. 
That  can  have  tragic  consequences  for  the  States 
involved, seen particularly in the suffering of children 
and women, the most vulnerable sectors of society.
I want to express our concern about some States’ 
increasing  tendency  to  violate  the  principles  of  the 
sovereign equality of States and non-interference in the 
affairs of others, enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations, the instrument governing the world’s principal 
international organization, the United Nations. In that 
context,  we  firmly  condemn  all  violations  of  those 
principles and of the privileges and immunities granted 
to  Heads  of  State,  senior  Government  officials  and 
diplomatic representatives under international law.
The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  recognizes 
the jurisdiction of the Court in matters submitted to it 
by States. Provided that the circumstances so require, 
once negotiations between the parties to a dispute have 
failed,  we  will  therefore  not  hesitate  to  submit  the 
matter to the International Court of Justice, as we have 
done previously, since it is another tool in the United 
Nations  system  available  to  States  in  the  pursuit  of 
justice  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  to 
ensure peaceful coexistence in today’s world.
With regard to the case concerning Immunities and 
Criminal Proceedings (Equatorial Guinea v. France), 
as  expressed  by  the  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, we have taken very good note of all 
the Court’s proceedings and are grateful once again for 
measures taken to ensure not only the sound application 
and  interpretation  of  international  law  but  above  all 
its enforcement.
Let  me  conclude  by  urging  States  to  submit 
contentious  cases  affecting  them  to  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  to  comply  with  and  accept  its 
judgments,  since  every  settlement  of  a  dispute  in  the 
Court can serve as a basis for lasting peace. We urge 
the Court to persist in its diligent fight for international 
law  through  objective,  independent  and  imparcial 
judicial action.
Mr.  Koonjul  (Mauritius):  I  wish  at  the  outset  to 
congratulate Judge Abdulqawi Ahmed Yusuf, President 
of the International Court of Justice, on his election to 
preside over the world court, and to thank him for his 
very comprehensive report on the activities of the Court 
for the past year (A/73/4).
Let me also acknowledge the presence this morning 
of Judge Tomka and our former colleague Judge Salam. 
18-33996
21/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
I  also  wish  to  welcome  Mr.  Philippe  Couvreur,  the 
Registrar of the Court.
The International Court of Justice is the principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  created  to  settle 
legal disputes submitted to it by States, in accordance 
with  international  law,  and  to  give  advisory  opinions 
on  legal  questions  referred  to  it  by  authorized  United 
Nations organs and specialized agencies.
We want to applaud the work being carried out by 
the Court, as well as the professionalism and calm with 
which the Court continues to handle its responsibilities. 
The sheer volume of cases before the Court, as reported 
by its President, is a clear testimony to the confidence 
that  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  place  in  that 
judicial  organ  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
and guidance to the United Nations and its organs on 
legal issues.
It is indeed gratifying that the Court is now being 
solicited  by  a  larger  number  of  Member  States,  given 
its function as the supreme judicial organ of the United 
Nations system. In that context, since the International 
Court  of  Justice  continues  to  have  a  full  docket  of 
cases each year, we ought to reinforce our support to 
the  Court  by  allocating  commensurate  resources  to 
enable  it  to  do  justice  to  the  load  of  new  cases  being 
brought to its attention. In the same vein, we welcome 
the Court’s decision to review and regulate the practice 
of participation by its judges in arbitration proceedings. 
That  measure  will  no  doubt  further  reinforce  the 
credibility and integrity of the Court and its judges.
in 
We  are  also  very  pleased  that  a  larger  number 
the  Court  or 
of  countries  are  appearing  before 
participating 
its  proceedings.  That  was  very 
apparent in the proceedings relating to the request by 
the  General  Assembly  for  an  advisory  opinion  on  the 
legal  consequences  of  the  separation  of  the  Chagos 
archipelago from Mauritius in 1965, in which numerous 
countries  from  different  parts  of  the  globe  and  even 
international organizations such as the African Union 
were  able  to  participate  for  the  first  time.  It  is  also 
worth underlining that the Court, and its Registrar in 
particular,  continue  to  conduct  the  proceedings  in  a 
very smooth, professional and, above all, fair manner.
I want to once again express my appreciation and 
that of my country for the very important work being 
done by the International Court of Justice, and to thank 
the President for his very detailed report.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  re-emphasizing  the 
important  role  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
plays  in  promoting  the  international  rule  of  law  and 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  and  in  ensuring 
the Court’s accessibility to all Members of the United 
Nations, whether they are large States or small.
itself  with 
Mr. Ly (Senegal) (spoke in French): My delegation 
aligns 
the 
representatives of the Gambia, on behalf of the Group 
of  African  States,  and  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the 
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
the  statements  made  by 
Yesterday,  24  October,  through  the  duly  solemn 
commemoration of United Nations Day, the international 
community reaffirmed its commitment to the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
which declares in its Preamble that
“We 
the  peoples  of 
the  United  Nations 
determined  to  establish  conditions  under  which 
justice and respect for the obligations arising from 
treaties and other sources of international law can 
be maintained ...”
Moreover,  Chapter  14  of  the  Charter  deals  with  the 
International Court of Justice, one of the main organs 
of our universal Organization, and sets out its Statute. 
The  International  Court  of  Justice  acquires  its  full 
relevance in the light of those provisions, tasked with 
upholding the law and contributing to the creation and 
maintenance of a culture of justice throughout the world 
as one of the authorities of international law.
My country, Senegal, which has made the rule of 
law the essential pillar of its domestic and foreign policy, 
thanks  President  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  and  his 
colleagues and collaborators for their clear presentation 
of  the  activities  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
which  touched  on  a  number  of  aspects  of  inter-State 
relations and other areas of international law.
For Senegal, the increase in the number and diversity 
of  cases  referred  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
is an additional assurance because it demonstrates the 
priority that nations accord to the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes.  What  would  the  world  be  like  if  all  the 
disputes  referred  to  in  the  report  were  subject  to  the 
law of the jungle or settled by force of arms? It is also a 
sign that rigorously tested multilateralism remains the 
best guarantee of international peace and security.
That  is  the  full  purpose  of  today’s  meeting,  an 
important  moment  for  us  to  reflect  on  the  work  of 
22/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  the  quest  for 
international  peace  and  security.  It  also  enables  us 
to  consider  opportunities  to  strengthen  our  common 
commitment to promoting the rule of law, a prerequisite 
for creating a more just and equitable world, ensuring 
peaceful relations among States and consolidating the 
three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  —  international 
peace  and  security,  development  and  human  rights. 
Lastly,  it  is  a  time  to  discuss  complementarity  and 
harmony  in  the  simultaneous  exercise  by  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Court  of  their  respective  functions 
for the benefit of the international stability required for 
sustainable and balanced development.
In  that  regard,  my  delegation  expresses  the  hope 
that  our  Organization  and  the  Court  will  continue  to 
work,  in  a  spirit  of  ever-closer  cooperation  and  ever-
growing  collaboration,  to  win  the  ongoing  battle  for 
peace  and  security  on  our  planet,  in  accordance  with 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations and international law, which are the essential 
foundations  of  a  world  that  is  more  peaceful  and 
prosperous because it is more just. We also hope to see 
effective and efficient cooperation in ensuring respect 
for and the enforcement of the decisions of the Court, the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations, which, 
through its jurisprudence, continues to contribute to the 
development of international law, the legal basis of our 
common desire to live together in peace.
In conclusion, in the firm belief that justice and the 
rule  of  law  are  powerful  determinants  of  sustainable 
development,  I  reiterate  my  delegation’s  steadfast 
support  for  the  Court,  whose  noble  mission  and  vital 
and  universal  objective  require  it  to  take  account  of 
all  the  world’s  legal  systems  in  its  operations  and  to 
embrace multilingualism.
Mr.  Escalante  Hasbún  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): I want to begin by thanking the President of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Abdulqawi 
Ahmed  Yusuf,  for  introducing  his  report  (A/73/4) 
detailing  the  administrative  and  judicial  activities 
undertaken by the world’s highest court of justice.
El Salvador considers it appropriate to highlight the 
tribute  that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  paid  on 
16 October in The Hague to the illustrious Salvadoran 
internationalist José Gustavo Guerrero, for the honour 
of having served as the last President of the Permanent 
Court of International Justice and first President of the 
International  Court  of  Justice  —  an  opportunity  that 
also enabled him to leave a significant global legacy in 
the development of international law and the application 
of justice in matters between States.
Returning  to  the  critically  important  issue  under 
consideration, my delegation is pleased to note that in 
the past year, the International Court of Justice has once 
again been extremely active in its area of jurisdiction, 
issuing  four  judgments  and  13  orders  on  various 
proceedings concerning alleged violations of sovereign 
rights and maritime spaces, as well as conducting public 
hearings  on  immunities  and  criminal  proceedings, 
obligations to negotiate access to the Pacific Ocean and 
the implementation of the International Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 
as well as five new contentious cases.
All  of  that  points  to  the  critical  and  fundamental 
role that the Court plays in the peaceful settlement of 
disputes,  with  Member  States  submitting  claims  on  a 
wide range of matters within the scope of international 
law,  such  as  human  rights,  environmental  damage 
and the preservation of living resources, international 
reparations  and  compensation  and  State  immunities, 
to  name  a  few.  That  affords  this  principal  organ  of 
the  United  Nations  a  critical  role  in  the  promotion 
and maintenance of the rule of law at the international 
level as, through its judgments and advisory opinions, 
it  consolidates  its  standing  as  the  only international 
universal tribunal with general dual jurisdiction.
It is therefore of paramount important to recall that 
one of the most important foundations and principles of 
international law is the obligation of all States to settle 
our international disputes by peaceful means whenever 
possible, including through the International Court of 
Justice, which over the years has been reflected in the 
confidence that States have placed in it and the number 
of cases that have been submitted to its jurisdiction and 
are still pending.
That  obligation  notwithstanding,  and  despite  the 
existence  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust  Fund  to 
Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  we  cannot  deny 
that  although  all  States  are  supposed  to  be  able  to 
have access to the peaceful settlement of disputes, not 
all countries in the international arena have the same 
ability to do so. That is because in recent years the costs 
of filing claims or defending one’s interests in disputes 
have  been  increasing,  making  access  to  international 
justice more expensive. For that reason, it is our view 
18-33996
23/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
that we must keep in mind that some States with low 
tax  revenue  or  high  debts  cannot  access  international 
justice in any of its forms. That is why we must work 
together to seek solutions and measures to address the 
issue,  which  undoubtedly  affects  the  membership  of 
the Organization.
Furthermore,  we  believe  that  given  the  growth  in 
the Court’s caseload, it should be given the budgetary 
resources  necessary  to  continue  to  issue  its  decisions 
and judgments in a timely manner. We also believe that 
professional positions within the Court should be held 
by people from all legal systems and from all over the 
world, and should reflect a good gender balance.
My delegation welcomes the fact that last year the 
publications of the International Court of Justice were 
distributed  in  French  and  English,  and  that  a  revised 
version  of  both  languages  is  available  on  its  website. 
Nevertheless, we would like to hope that its publications 
could  be  made  available  in  all  six  official  languages, 
which  would  help  further  disseminate  international 
law and the work of the International Court of Justice 
among Government officials, jurists, lawyers, teachers 
and academics.
Finally,  we  reiterate  El  Salvador’s  commitment 
to  supporting  the  work  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations, in the maintenance of international peace and 
security. We want to pay a well-deserved tribute to the 
Court more than 70 years after its establishment as the 
highest court of justice in the world.
Mr. Lefeber (Netherlands): Let me first thank the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  his 
introduction of the Court’s report (A/73/4) and for the 
outstanding work of the Court as the principal judicial 
organ of the United Nations.
The  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  continues  to  be 
proud to be the host country of the Court. The consent 
of  States  remains  essential  to  the  Court’s  ability  to 
resolve legal disputes between States. My Government 
would therefore like to encourage all States Members of 
the United Nations that have not yet done so to accept 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court by issuing a 
declaration under article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute, 
and to do so with as few reservations as possible.
In  that  respect,  we  reiterate  our  concern  about 
the  trend  in  the  direction  of  more,  rather  than 
fewer,  reservations  made  to  the  acceptance  of  the 
In  my  Government’s  own 
Court’s 
jurisdiction. 
declaration  accepting 
the  compulsory 
jurisdiction 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  limitations  to 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  contentious  cases 
involving the Kingdom of the Netherlands have as far 
as  possible  been  eliminated.  Our  only  reservation  is 
with regard to the Court’s jurisdiction ratione temporis.
The Netherlands will accept all disputes arising out of 
situations  or  facts  that  took  place  no  earlier  than  100 
years before the dispute is brought before the Court.
The  Netherlands  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
the  Court  should  be  able  to  decide  all  legal  disputes 
between States. Acceptance of the Court’s jurisdiction 
as  expressed  through  a  declaration  under  article  36, 
paragraph 2, of the Statute is therefore to be preferred. 
Only when it is given a broad mandate will the Court be 
able to truly fulfil its functions as the principal judicial 
organ of the international community.
the  Court  without 
Pending  universal  acceptance  of  the  compulsory 
jurisdiction  of 
reservations, 
the  Netherlands  welcomes  the  incorporation  of  a 
compromissory  clause  in  any  treaty  to  provide  for 
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  When  such  a  clause  is 
optional, the Netherlands will issue a declaration that 
it  accepts  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  But  the  wording 
of such a clause may limit the jurisdiction to such an 
extent  as  to  force  the  Court  to  declare  itself  without 
jurisdiction, or to consider only part of a dispute.
Furthermore, we are compelled to note with concern 
recent  withdrawals  from  treaties  containing  such 
clauses by States when confronted with a case brought 
against  them  before  the  Court,  even  before  the  Court 
has had an opportunity to pronounce on the question of 
jurisdiction.  Notwithstanding  our  pursuit  of  universal 
acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court 
without reservations, the Court should not establish its 
jurisdiction where there is no consent of the parties to 
a dispute. The existence of consent is a prerequisite for 
the exercise of jurisdiction by the Court. In that respect, 
we have two observations.
First,  the  Court’s  judicial  functions  have  been 
clearly defined. Its jurisdiction in contentious disputes 
is reserved for disputes between States. Its jurisdiction 
to give advisory opinions is reserved for legal questions 
at the request of the General Assembly, other organs of 
the United Nations and authorized specialized agencies 
within  the  scope  of  their  activities.  Those  organs 
24/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
should  be  conscious  of  the  distinction  between  those 
two functions and respect it.
A bilateral dispute should not be brought to the Court 
under  the  guise  of  a  request  for  an  advisory  opinion, 
because that would potentially circumvent the consent 
given to the Court by one or more of the parties to the 
dispute. The Netherlands therefore attaches importance 
to the wording of the request for an advisory opinion. 
It  should  contain  a  question  of  general  international 
law, not one of the application of international law to 
a  particular  situation  that  essentially  reflects  a  legal 
dispute between two or more States.
Secondly, the Netherlands would like to note that 
the Court should always assure itself of the existence 
of  the  consent  of  all  the  parties  to  a  dispute.  That 
consent can exist only if the parties to a dispute have 
mutually  recognized  the  acceptance  of  the  Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction.
In  conclusion,  the  Netherlands  is  aware  that  the 
Court has a full docket. While that means an increase in 
the Court’s workload, we see it as a positive development 
and  congratulate  the  Court  on  the  increasing  demand 
for its work in the settlement of international disputes 
and its advisory opinions. Let me end by thanking the 
Court again for its outstanding work.
Ms.  Ponce  (Philippines):  The  Philippines  thanks 
President  Abdulqawi  Ahmed  Yusuf  for  his  report 
(A/73/4).  This  annual  exercise  reminds  us  that  the 
International Court of Justice is an integral part of the 
United Nations. Committed as we all are to the principle 
of  the  rule  of  law,  we  here  in  the  General  Assembly 
acknowledge  its  essential  role  in  the  United  Nations 
mission, to which we all subscribe, the very reason we 
are here at all.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  therefore 
critical  to  the  fulfilment  of  our  peremptory  duty, 
under  Article  1,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  to  bring  about  by  peaceful  means, 
and  in  conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and 
international  law,  the  adjustment  or  settlement  of 
international disputes or situations that might lead to a 
breach of the peace.
The  1982  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes  asserts 
the 
same  commitment.  It  was  negotiated  and  adopted 
by  the  General  Assembly  during  the  Cold  War  (see 
resolution 37/10), when non-aligned countries sought to 
consolidate their political and economic independence. 
The  Declaration  expressed 
their  aspiration  by 
articulating  the  norms  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  outlined  in  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. That affirmed that judicial settlement 
is the central role of the Court.
Indeed, we welcome the increasing workload of the 
Court and the broadening in subject matter of the cases 
brought before it, as well as the geographical diversity 
of  the  States  parties.  That  is  a  show  of  trust  and 
confidence in the Court’s critical role in the peaceful 
settlement of disputes and the promotion of the rule of 
law.  The  speedier  adjudication  of  disputes  before  the 
Court is no doubt a factor in the increased recourse to the 
International Court of Justice, as is the determination 
of the Court not to be swayed by political pressure or 
to politicize cases. The Philippines has recognized the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  since  1972.  We 
renew our call to other States to do the same.
The relationship between the Court and the Security 
Council is fundamental to the maintenance of peace and 
security. We call once again on the Security Council to 
seriously consider Article 96 of the Charter and make 
greater use of the Court as a source of advisory opinions 
and of interpretation of relevant norms of international 
law.  We  note  that  the  Council  has  not  requested  an 
advisory  opinion  from  the  Court  since  1970.  That  is 
tantamount to an assertion of collective sovereignty in 
acting as the exception to the global acceptance of the 
Court’s jurisdiction.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  together  with 
the Statute, jurisprudence and experience of the Court, 
was meant to give all States, including small nations, 
an equal chance for justice. The Philippines therefore 
affirms its full support for the Court.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item.
May I take it that the General Assembly takes note 
of the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  Several  delegations  have 
asked to speak in exercise of the right of reply. I would 
like to remind members that statements in the exercise 
of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the 
first  statement  and  five  minutes  for  the  second,  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
18-33996
25/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
Mr.  Musikhin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): We feel obliged to comment on the statement 
by the representative of Ukraine. Once again, apparently, 
her delegation did not hesitate to use an agenda item, the 
report of the International Court of Justice (A/73/4), not 
to evaluate the work of the Court during the reporting 
period but as propaganda for its position with regard to 
the proceedings against our country.
I  shall  now  briefly  comment  on  the  real  situation 
regarding  the  order  on  provisional  measures.  As  was 
mentioned in its statement, Ukraine filed a request to 
the Court to construe the order, motivated by the fact 
that there were alleged to be fundamental disagreements 
between our two countries regarding the content of the 
order. We saw this as an attempt by Ukraine to impose 
its  own  understanding  of  the  provisional  measures. 
In  response  to  the  Court’s  request,  we  proposed  not 
to  consider  Ukraine’s  application,  since  raising  the 
question of the Court construing provisional measures 
is wrong in principle. There is nothing in the Statute of 
the Court, its rules of procedure or its case-law practice 
that  implies  that  it  has  such  powers,  as  distinct  from 
the  power  to  construe  a  decision  already  in  force,  as 
provided  for  in  article  60  of  the  Statute.  The  Court 
agreed with our reasoning and did not construe its ruling 
of 19 April 2017. It contacted both parties with a request 
for information on the progress of the implementation 
of the provisional measures related to the activities of 
the Crimean Tatar representative institutions.
We respect the Court and its decisions, resolutions 
and requests. Russia sent its clarifications to the Court 
in May and June and we will provide it with additional 
information in January 2019.
the 
judgment 
issued  by 
Mr.  Skoknic  Tapia  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Regrettably,  in  his  statement  today  the  representative 
of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  gave  a  unilateral 
interpretation  of 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  on  1  October  and  of 
the  work  of  the  Court.  It  seems  totally  inappropriate 
to  us  to  start  a  debate  in  this  forum  on  a  matter  that 
has  been  definitively  decided  by  the  Court.  Indeed, 
the International Court of Justice dismissed the claim 
that Chile had incurred an obligation to negotiate with 
Bolivia  and  rejected  all  of  the  latter’s  claims,  as  the 
President of the Court explained at length this morning.
The  judgment  testifies  to  Chile’s  good  faith  in  a 
whole  history  of  bilateral  exchanges.  The  paragraph 
cited  by  Bolivia  does  not  constitute  an  invocation  or 
appeal by the Court, which in any case does not have 
that authority. Rather, it is an observation by the Court, 
a  natural  consequence  of  the  reasoning  behind  the 
judgment that States are free to negotiate and that Court 
rulings do not prevent diplomacy from taking its natural 
course. Nor do we share the belief that international law 
is not important to the conduct of international relations 
and the pursuit of justice and legal security.
Mr.  AlAmiri  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation would like to exercise its right 
to reply to the statement by the representative of Qatar 
regarding  the  decision  by  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  that  requested  both  parties  to  refrain  from 
any  act  that  would  exacerbate,  perpetuate  or  make 
their dispute more difficult to settle. The United Arab 
Emirates  is  in  fact  committed  to  the  three  measures 
decided on by the Court and has applied humanitarian 
exceptions  to  spare  our  brother  Qatari  nationals  the 
consequences  of  sovereign  measures  that  we  have 
taken  regarding  illegitimate  activities  undertaken  by 
the regime in Qatar. The measures are not aimed at the 
Qatari people.
The number of Qatari nationals currently residing 
in the Emirates is 2,194. They have every right to stay 
or leave. The number of Qatari entries and departures 
has  exceeded  8,442  since  the  beginning  of  the  crisis, 
and  694  other  Qatari  nationals  continue  to  receive  an 
education  at  various  educational  institutions  in  our 
country. We look forward to working and coordinating 
with the members of the Committee on the Elimination 
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination with a view to 
informing them of all the facts related to the case while 
they consider those claims and allegations.
(spoke 
(Qatar) 
Mr.  Al-Thani 
in  Arabic): 
Regrettably, my country’s delegation has to respond to 
the  allegations  in  the  statement  by  the  representative 
of the United Arab Emirates. As the Assembly knows, 
my  delegation  has  abided  by  the  agenda  item  under 
consideration, the report of the International Court of 
Justice (A/73/4). We included no issue in our statement 
that  is  not  covered  in  the  report.  The  report  contains 
all the Court’s decisions for the period from 1 August 
2017 to 31 July 2018, including its decision dated 23 July 
with regard to the request by the State of Qatar against 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  in  view  of  its  violation  of 
the International Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms of Racial Discrimination.
26/28 
18-33996
25/10/2018 
A/73/PV.25
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  breached 
its 
commitments  under  articles  2,  4,  5,  6  and  7  of  the 
Convention.  It  has  taken  illegal  measures,  including 
collectively  expelling  all  Qataris  and  denying  them 
entry to the Emirates based on their national origin. That 
constitutes  a  violation  of  their  basic  rights,  including 
the right to equal treatment before the Emirati Courts. 
They have not refrained from the expression of racial 
discrimination  or  hatred  against  Qatar  and  Qataris, 
including the criminalization of sympathizers with the 
State of Qatar and Qataris. They have not refrained from 
attacks  through  an  international  campaign,  promoted 
and funded by the Emirates, in addition to incitement 
against  the  State  of  Qatar  in  social  media.  The  aim 
is  to  silence  Qatari  media  and  attack  Qatari  entities. 
The  Emirates  has  failed  to  protect  Qatari  nationals 
from  racial  discrimination  and  to  provide  them  with 
adequate legal reparations through the courts and other 
legal institutions of the Emirates for the harm done to 
them.
The  State  of  Qatar  therefore  requested  that  the 
International Court of Justice order the Emirates to take 
all necessary measures to comply with its obligations 
in accordance with the Convention on the Elimination 
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and to declare 
null and void all hostile measures against Qataris and 
any illegal measures taken against them based on their 
nationality.
In  compliance  with  the  order  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  which  requested  that  both  countries 
refrain  from  any  action  aggravating  the  dispute,  the 
State of Qatar has been abiding by it. Despite the fact 
that three months have elapsed since the Court issued 
the order, the United Arab Emirates has failed to abide 
by  it.  My  country  has  also  taken  steps  to  implement 
the  Court’s  decision  that  were  rejected  by  the  United 
Arab Emirates. The Assembly can refer to the Court’s 
Registrar for further confirmation of this fact.
The  delegation  of  the  Government  of  the  United 
Arab  Emirates  must  be  reminded  that  any  attempt  to 
avoid  the  implementation  of  the  Court’s  decision  is  a 
violation  of  the  Charter  and  the  Court’s  statute.  The 
Court’s order must be implemented to achieve justice 
for Qatari nationals, and the State of Qatar will spare 
no  effort  to  protect  the  interests  and  rights  of  Qatari 
citizens and of those residing in the country. We will 
continue  to  defend  them  through  legal  means  and 
international procedures.
Mr.  AlAmiri  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  My  country’s  delegation  would  like  to 
respond to the false allegations in the statement by the 
representative of Qatar. They are erroneous, as usual. It 
appears that the representative of Qatar did not listen to 
what I said about humanitarian measures taken by the 
United  Arab  Emirates  to  ensure  that  Qatari  nationals 
would  not  be  affected.  As  for  the  political  measures 
that were taken by the United Arab Emirates, they were 
aimed not at Qataris but at the regime in Qatar.
To put it briefly, the International Court of Justice 
is still seized of this case. We want to point out once 
again that as in any case under review concerning the 
settlement  of  a  dispute,  the  two  parties  must  engage 
in the Court’s proceedings in good faith and not try to 
exploit them for political purposes.
Mr.  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation  is  compelled  to  respond  for  a  second  time 
in  order  to  clarify  the  erroneous  allegations  by  the 
representative  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  about 
the  State  of  Qatar.  Unfortunately,  he  has  made  those 
erroneous  allegations  during 
the  non-politicized 
discussion  of  an  item  in  which  the  emphasis  should 
be  on  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
(A/73/4).  Regrettably,  the  Emirati  delegation  insisted 
on  making  those  allegations  while  deflecting  our 
attention  and  that  of  the  General  Assembly  from  the 
very  important  item  under  review,  the  International 
Court of Justice, which would contribute to a peaceful 
settlement under its mandate specified in the Charter of 
the United Nations and its Statute.
The  objectives  of  the  international  campaign 
against  the  State  of  Qatar  are  well  known  to  the 
international  community.  They  are  based  on  false 
accusations  by  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  which 
took  illegal  measures  against  my  country,  including 
significant  human  rights  violations,  violation  of  the 
freedom  of  movement  and  freedom  of  expression  of 
connected families and students engaged in study and 
other  unprecedented  violations  in  our  region  and  in 
Gulf societies, which are known for being cohesive and 
harmonious. Those measures contravene international 
conventions  and  charters,  in  addition  to  basic  rights. 
They  also  run  counter  to  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  which  calls  for  respect 
for human rights, because counter-terrorism activities 
cannot  be  undertaken  where  human  rights  are  being 
violated.
18-33996
27/28
A/73/PV.25 
25/10/2018
The  State  of  Qatar,  according  to  United  Nations 
reports, plays a leading role in counter-extremism and 
counter-terrorism that is commended by the States that 
have  pioneered  counter-terrorism.  That  honourable 
record  cannot  be  discredited  by  the  representative 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  under  any  pretext,  so 
as  to  enable  it  to  shirk  its  regional  and  international 
obligations.  We  reaffirm  our  rejection  of  the  false 
accusations  made  by  the  representative  of  the  United 
Arab Emirates against the State of Qatar to the effect 
that we interfere in their internal affairs. Our policies 
are  well  known.  We  are  committed  to  international 
law,  the  Charter,  the  security  and  stability  of  the 
Gulf region and international peace and security. The 
world  recognizes  the  extent  of  violations  perpetrated 
by  the  United  Arab  Emirates  in  our  region,  violating 
General  Assembly  and  Security  Council  resolutions 
and threatening regional stability.
In conclusion, considering that I will not be able to 
respond to any allegations after exercising my second 
right of reply, according to the rules of procedure, my 
country reserves its right to respond to those allegations 
in writing.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 76?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
28/28 
18-33996
