United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
6th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 25 September 2018, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.6
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency 
Mr. Kofi Annan, seventh Secretary-General of the 
United Nations
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  we 
proceed  to  consider  the  item  on  our  agenda  for  this 
morning, I would like to invite members to stand and 
observe a minute of silence in tribute to the memory of 
His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, the seventh Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations,  who  passed  away  on 
18 August 2018.
The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence.
Agenda item 112
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/73/1)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  accordance 
with the decision taken at its 3rd plenary meeting, on 
21  September  2018,  the  General  Assembly  will  hear 
a presentation by the Secretary-General of his annual 
report on the work of the Organization (A/73/1), under 
agenda item 112.
I give the floor to the Secretary-General.
The  Secretary-General:  Our  world  is  suffering 
from  a  bad  case  of  trust  deficit  disorder.  People 
are  feeling  troubled  and  insecure,  and  trust  is  at  a 
breaking  point  —  trust  in  national  institutions,  trust 
among States and trust in the rules-based global order. 
Within  countries,  people  are  losing  faith  in  political 
establishments, polarization is on the rise and populism 
is on the march. Among countries, cooperation is less 
certain  and  more  difficult,  and  the  divisions  in  the 
Security Council are stark. Trust in global governance 
is  also  fragile,  as  twenty-first-century  challenges 
outpace twentieth-century institutions and mindsets.
We  have  never  had  a  true  system  of  global 
governance, much less a fully democratic one. Still, over 
many  decades,  we  have  established  solid  foundations 
for international cooperation. We came together as the 
United  Nations  to  build  institutions,  norms  and  rules 
to  advance  our  shared  interests.  We  have  raised  the 
standards of living of millions. We have forged peace 
in troubled lands and, indeed, we have avoided a third 
world war. But none of that can be taken for granted.
Today,  the  world  order  is  increasingly  chaotic. 
Power relations are less clear and universal values are 
being  eroded.  Democratic  principles  are  under  siege 
and  the  rule  of  law  is  being  undermined.  Impunity  is 
on the rise, as leaders and States push the boundaries 
both  at  home  and  in  the  international  arena.  We  face 
a  set  of  paradoxes.  The  world  is  more  connected,  yet 
societies  are  becoming  more  fragmented.  Challenges 
are  growing  outward,  while  many  people  are  turning 
inward.  And  multilateralism  is  under  fire  precisely 
when we need it most.
It is true that we are moving in the direction of a 
multipolar  world,  but  multipolarity  will  not  in  itself 
guarantee  peace  or  solve  global  problems.  A  century 
ago,  Europe  was  multipolar.  The  balance  of  power 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-29769 (E)
*1829769*
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
was  deemed  sufficient  to  keep  rivals  in  check.  It 
was  not.  Without  strong  multilateral  frameworks  for 
Europe-wide  cooperation  and  problem-solving,  the 
result  was  a  grievous  world  war.  Today,  with  shifts 
in  the  balance  of  power,  the  risk  of  confrontation 
may increase.
serious  risk.  Nuclear-weapon  States  are  modernizing 
their arsenals. A new arms race could be triggered and 
the threshold for their use lowered. We have seen the 
outrageous use of chemical weapons with full impunity, 
despite 
their  ban.  Protections  against  dangerous 
biological weapons are weak.
In  assessing  the  Peloponnesian  War  in  ancient 
Greece,  Thucydides  said,  “It  was  the  rise  of  Athens 
and  the  fear  that  this  instilled  in  Sparta  that  made 
war  inevitable.”  That  is  what  the  political  scientist 
Graham  Allison  calls  the  “Thucydides  trap”.  But  in 
his book Destined for War, reviewing many examples 
of  rivalry  in  the  past,  he  concluded  that  conflict  is 
never  inevitable.  Indeed,  with  leadership  committed 
to  strategic  cooperation  and  to  managing  competing 
interests, we can avoid war and steer the world onto a 
safer path.
Individual  leaders  have  the  duty  to  advance  the 
well-being of their people, but it runs deeper. Together, 
as guardians of the common good, we also have a duty 
to promote and support a reformed, reinvigorated and 
strengthened multilateral system. We need commitment 
to  a  rules-based  order,  with  the  United  Nations  at  its 
centre and with the various institutions and treaties that 
bring the Charter of the United Nations to life. We need 
to show the added value of international cooperation by 
delivering peace, defending human rights and driving 
economic  and  social  progress  for  women  and  men 
everywhere. That is why I am so committed to reform, 
and  to  making  the  United  Nations  more  effective  in 
responding  to  the  needs  and  aspirations  of  “We  the 
peoples”.  In  the  face  of  massive  existential  threats  to 
people and the planet, but equally at a time of compelling 
opportunities  for  shared  prosperity,  there  is  no  way 
forward  but  through  collective,  common-sense  action 
for the common good. That is how we can rebuild trust.
In my address last year (see A/72/PV.3), I highlighted 
seven  challenges.  One  year  later,  they  remain  sadly 
unresolved. There is outrage at our inability to end the 
wars  in  Syria,  Yemen  and  elsewhere.  The  Rohingya 
people  remain  exiled  and  traumatized  in  misery,  still 
yearning for safety and justice. Palestinians and Israelis 
are  still  locked  in  endless  conflict,  with  a  two-State 
solution ever more distant. The threat of terror looms, 
fed  by  the  root  causes  of  radicalization  and  violent 
extremism,  and  terrorism  is  ever  more  interlinked 
with international organized crime and the trafficking 
of  people,  drugs  and  arms,  and  with  corruption.  The 
nuclear  peril  has  not  eased,  with  non-proliferation  at 
Inequality  is  undermining  faith  in  the  social 
contract  and  is  a  clear  obstacle  to  the  achievement  of 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  Tensions  over 
trade  are  on  the  rise.  Migrants  and  refugees  continue 
to face discrimination and demagoguery in the context 
of  clearly  insufficient  international  cooperation.  And 
as we mark the seventieth anniversary of the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the human rights agenda 
is  losing  ground  and  authoritarianism  is  on  the  rise. 
As  the  politics  of  pessimism  spreads,  we  must  guard 
against self-fulfilling prophecies. Those who see their 
neighbours  as  dangerous  might  create  a  threat  where 
there was none. Those who close their borders to regular 
migration only fuel the work of traffickers, and those 
who ignore human rights in combating terrorism tend 
to breed the very extremism that they are trying to end.
(spoke in Spanish)
We  have  an  obligation  to  change  this  course  and 
tackle  the  challenges  facing  us.  We  must  act  based 
on facts, not out of fear, and we must rely on reason, 
not  delusions.  Our  work  must  focus  on  prevention. 
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  presents  us 
with  a  unique  opportunity  to  move  forward.  To  give 
just one example, I want to welcome the firm support 
that  has  been  shown  for  my  Action  for  Peacekeeping 
initiative, which has been endorsed by 148 States and 
organizations. Its goal is to help our missions succeed 
in  unstable  and  long-term  situations.  Today,  however, 
I want to focus on two major challenges that over the 
past year have become exceedingly urgent — climate 
change and new risks related to advances in technology. 
Let me discuss each of them in turn.
(spoke in French)
Let  us  first  consider  something  that  constitutes  a 
direct threat to our existence — climate change. We are 
at a pivotal moment. If we do not change course in the 
next two years, we risk losing control of the situation. 
Climate  change  is  occurring  at  a  faster  pace  than  we 
can keep up with and is provoking loud calls for help all 
over the world. According to the World Meteorological 
Organization, the past two decades have included 18 of 
the warmest years since such data began to be recorded, 
2/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
in 1850. A few weeks ago, the ultra-thick and reputedly 
ultra-solid  Greenland  ice  sheet  in  the  northern  part 
of  the  country  began  to  crack  for  the  first  time.  The 
concentration  of  carbon  dioxide  in  the  atmosphere  is 
at  its  highest  level  in  3  million  years,  and  it  is  only 
increasing.  What  is  worse  is  that,  as  world  leaders, 
our  actions  have  not  been  up  to  the  challenge.  We 
must  listen  to  our  eminent  world  scientists.  We  must 
face  reality  head-on,  and  we  must  be  more  ambitious 
and  do  more  to  show  that  we  take  the  urgency  of  the 
situation seriously. We must ensure the implementation 
of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which has 
immense potential for putting us on the right track but 
whose goals are far from being achieved, although they 
represent only the bare minimum required to avoid the 
worst fallout from climate change.
I am concerned about the fact that the recent Bangkok 
climate  talks  on  guidelines  for  the  implementation 
of  the  Agreement  were  concluded  without  making 
sufficient progress. The next Conference of the Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Poland  in  December, 
will be decisive. It is absolutely crucial to ensure that it 
succeeds. As I said recently, the disagreements among 
Member States that paralysed us in Copenhagen cannot 
be repeated in Katowice. Fortunately, the evolution of 
technology is our ally. Green energy is more competitive 
than ever. If we commit to the right path, climate action 
could produce an additional $26 billion for the global 
economy from now until 2030. Green-economy policies 
could create 24 million jobs. More and more businesses 
and  investors  are  finding  that  the  green  economy  is 
profitable. Far from threatening the foundations of the 
economy,  climate  action  creates  new  industries,  new 
markets  and  additional  jobs,  while  reducing  reliance 
on fossil fuels. It is inaction, not action, that puts the 
economy in danger.
Governments  must  demonstrate  wisdom  and 
courage.  That  means  ending  multi-billion-dollar 
subsidies for fossil fuels, putting a fair price on carbon 
emissions  and  ending  investments  in  unsustainable 
infrastructure that will perpetuate harmful practices for 
decades to come. Our future is at stake. Climate change 
spares nothing and can shake the entire world. If we are 
to ensure global prosperity and the security of nations, 
it  is  essential  to  maintain  global  warming  well  below 
2°C. That is why in September 2019 I will convene a 
climate  change  summit  to  rally  efforts  and  stimulate 
funding. It will provide an opportunity to bring together 
States, cities and actors in the real economy, along with 
the decision-makers, businesses, financial community 
and  representatives  of  civil  society,  to  focus  on  the 
heart of the problem. The summit will be held one year 
before the review of every State’s commitments under 
the Paris Agreement, and those commitments will have 
to be taken further. We need to be more ambitious than 
ever, and leaders and partners will have the opportunity 
to demonstrate that ambition at the summit. For that to 
be possible, we must act today. The world needs all of 
us to be champions of climate action.
(spoke in English)
intelligence,  blockchain 
Let me now turn to new technologies and to what 
we  can  do  to  uphold  their  promise  while  keeping 
their perils at bay. And there is indeed great promise. 
Scientific  progress  has  helped  cure  deadly  diseases, 
feed growing populations, drive economic growth and 
connect businesses, communities, families and friends 
across  the  world.  Rapidly  developing  fields  such  as 
artificial 
technology  and 
biotechnology have the potential to turbocharge progress 
towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. 
Artificial  intelligence  is  connecting  people  across 
languages  and  supporting  doctors  in  making  better 
diagnoses.  Driverless  vehicles  will 
revolutionize 
transportation.  But  there  are  also  risks  and  serious 
dangers.  Technological  advances  may  disrupt  labour 
markets  as  traditional  jobs  change  or  disappear,  even 
as the number of young job-seekers continues to grow. 
Retraining will be needed at previously unimaginable 
levels. Education must adapt from the earliest grades. 
The very nature of work will change. Governments may 
have  to  consider  stronger  safety  nets  and  eventually 
universal basic income.
for 
At  the  same  time,  technology  is  being  misused 
by 
sexual  exploitation  and 
terrorists  and 
abuse.  Organized  criminal  networks  lurk  on  the 
dark  web,  profiting  from  encryption  and  near-
anonymous  cryptocurrency  payments  to  traffic  in 
people  and  illegal  goods.  Some  reports  estimate 
that  cybercrime  is  now  putting  $1.5  trillion  in  the 
pockets  of  cybercriminals  annually.  Malicious  acts  in 
cyberspace — such as disinformation campaigns — are 
polarizing  communities  and  diminishing  trust  among 
States.  And  more  and  more  people  are  getting  their 
information from news or social media feeds that echo 
their views, reinforce tribalism and assure people that 
they are right and the other side is wrong.
18-29769
3/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
The  digital  revolution  is  also  being  used  to 
discriminate  against  women  and 
reinforce  our 
male-dominated culture. Indeed, there is a deep gender 
gap  in  access  to  digital  technologies,  widening  the 
digital divide. We must dismantle obstacles and create 
opportunities  for  women,  ensure  equality  and  change 
online  and  toxic  corporate  cultures.  The  technology 
sector must open up and become more diverse — not 
least for its own benefit.
With technology outpacing institutions, cooperation 
between  countries  and  among  stakeholders  will  be 
crucial,  including  Member  States,  the  private  sector, 
research  centres,  civil  society  and  academia.  There 
are  many  mutually  beneficial  solutions  to  digital 
challenges.  We  urgently  need  to  find  a  way  to  apply 
them.  At  the  United  Nations,  we  are  harnessing 
technologies in support of the Sustainable Development 
Goals. We are creating innovation labs, including in my 
Office. And in July, I established a High-Level Panel on 
Digital Cooperation, which met yesterday and which is 
a dialogue platform for all key actors.
The impacts of new technologies on warfare are a 
direct threat to our common responsibility to guarantee 
peace  and  security.  The  weaponization  of  artificial 
intelligence  is  a  growing  concern.  The  prospect  of 
weapons  that  can  select  and  attack  a  target  on  their 
own  raises  multiple  alarms  and  could  trigger  new 
arms races. The diminished oversight of weapons has 
implications for our efforts to contain threats, prevent 
escalation  and  adhere  to  international  humanitarian 
law  and  human  rights  law.  Let  us  call  it  as  it  is.  The 
prospect of machines with the discretion and power to 
take human life is morally repugnant. Heaven forbid, a 
new war could very well include a massive cyberattack 
that targets not only military capacities, but also critical 
civilian infrastructure.
I  am  encouraged  by  the  10  possible  guiding 
principles  elaborated  in  Geneva  last  month  by  the 
Group of Governmental Experts on lethal autonomous 
weapons  systems.  More  work  on  those  issues,  aimed 
at  building  trust  between  and  within  nations,  will  be 
needed if we are to ensure the responsible use of new 
technologies. I urge you to use the United Nations as 
a  platform  to  draw  global  attention  to  such  crucial 
matters and to nurture a digital future that is safe and 
beneficial for all.
Despite  the  chaos  and  confusion  in  our  world,  I 
also see winds of hope blowing around the globe. Just 
days  ago,  I  witnessed  the  signing  of  a  historic  peace 
agreement  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  in  Saudi 
Arabia.  Soon  after,  the  Presidents  of  Djibouti  and 
Eritrea met in Jeddah to launch a peace process. Eritrea 
and Somalia have established diplomatic relations. And 
in the same region, in the context of a summit of the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the two 
rival  leaders  in  South  Sudan  finally  signed  a  peace 
agreement. I am hopeful that those efforts will continue 
to  be  consolidated  so  that  the  people  of  the  Horn  of 
Africa can finally turn the page on war and conflict.
The courageous initiative of the Singapore summit 
between  the  leaders  of  the  United  States  and  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, along with the 
recent meeting of the two Korean leaders in Pyongyang, 
offers  hope  for  the  possibility  of  a  full  and  verifiable 
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula in a context 
of regional security.
During my recent visit to Colombia, I was impressed 
by  the  people’s  strong  commitment  to  peace,  now 
reaffirmed  by  President  Duque  Márquez.  In  Central 
Asia, I personally witnessed strengthened cooperation 
among States after Uzbekistan went through a peaceful 
political  transition.  Greece  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia have taken a major step towards 
resolving their differences. Our peacekeeping mission 
in Liberia ended a decade and a half of work this year 
following  the  country’s  first  peaceful  democratic 
transition, adding to peacekeeping successes elsewhere 
in West Africa. The approval of a compact on refugees 
and  another  on  migration  represents  a  sign  of  hope, 
even if there is still a long way to go to reconcile full 
respect  for  the  rights  of  people  on  the  move  with  the 
legitimate interests of States.
Hundreds  of  millions  of  people  have  been  lifted 
out of extreme poverty across the world over the past 
three  decades,  and  we  averted  looming  famine  in 
four countries that had been impacted in the past two 
years.  Armenia’s  young  people  were  at  the  heart  of 
that  country’s  peaceful  political  transition  earlier  this 
year  —  showing  the  potential  of  youth  to  use  their 
voice to advance democracy. And the drive for gender 
equality is gaining ground, amid a growing awareness 
of  pervasive  discrimination  against  women  and  girls, 
from violence, harassment and exploitation to unequal 
pay  and  exclusion  from  decision-making.  The  United 
Nations must lead the way in pursuit of gender equality. 
For the first time in United Nations history, there is full 
gender  parity  in  our  Senior  Management  Group  and 
4/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
among  Resident  Coordinators  leading  country  teams 
around the world. We are firmly committed to equality 
and empowerment everywhere.
As  our  late  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  once 
reminded us:
“We share a common destiny. We can master it 
only if we face it together. And that, my friends, is 
why we have the United Nations.” (see SG/SM/7262)
Our  future  rests  on  solidarity.  We  must  repair 
broken  trust.  We  must  reinvigorate  our  multilateral 
project. And we must uphold dignity for one and all.
Agenda item 8
General debate
The President (spoke in Spanish): It is a genuine 
honour  for  me  to  welcome  everyone  to  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  I  welcome 
everyone to the only place where a meeting of this kind 
is  possible.  Only  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  main 
deliberative  and  representative  body  of  the  United 
Nations,  offers  to  all  of  the  peoples  and  leaders  of 
the world the opportunity to hear and be heard on an 
equal footing.
The  contribution  made  by  the  United  Nations 
to  humankind  has  been  immense.  International  law, 
the  promotion  of  peace,  human  rights,  protection 
standards 
the  Sustainable 
Development  Goals  and  those  pre-eminent  principles 
that govern international coexistence were born in the 
General Assembly.
the  environment, 
for 
The reality is that the work of the United Nations is 
as relevant today as it was 73 years ago. Multilateralism 
is the only viable response to the global problems that 
we face. To undermine multilateralism or to cast doubt 
upon its merits will only lead to instability and division, 
to mistrust and polarization. Around the world, millions 
of people are suffering from violence, war and want, and 
from the effects of climate change. For those millions 
of  human  beings,  uncertainty  and  fear  are  their  daily 
lot. Inequality has deprived many societies of hope and 
opportunity. Those crushed dreams and that lack of any 
hope for the future is being exploited by some to further 
divide our communities, stirring up racism, xenophobia 
and violence, which represent the very antithesis of the 
purpose of the Charter that we adopted in 1945.
No  one  can  be  indifferent  to  human  suffering. 
Wars  and  conflicts,  as  well  as  economic  crises  and 
environmental  degradation,  affect  us  all  without 
distinction. We live in an interconnected world, which 
obliges us to sustain global dialogue and a multilateral 
response. That is why I have proposed that we return 
to the multilateral agenda with a renewed commitment 
based  on  three  principles:  global  leadership,  shared 
responsibilities and collective action.
Global 
leadership 
in  order 
is  necessary 
to 
identify  common  solutions  to  global  problems  and 
take  appropriate  and 
timely  decisions.  We  need 
shared  responsibility  because  we  all  have  a  common 
commitment  to  ensure  social  cohesion  and  human 
dignity, as well as the health of the planet. Collective 
action  is  needed  because  the  most  sensitive  issues  of 
humankind are of concern to all of us.
I  invite  the  members  of  the  Assembly  to  find 
inspiration  in  the  Andean  principle  of  minga,  which 
refers  to  working  together  and  sharing  duties  for  the 
benefit of the community. Let us create a global minga
to  build  societies  that  are  more  peaceful,  egalitarian, 
sustainable and resilient.
This year I call on those present to work together 
around seven priorities.
First, we need to attend to gender equality and the 
empowerment of women, which remain a debt we owe 
to more than half the population, and our failure to do so 
slows global development. Achieving the economic and 
productive inclusion of women could add an additional 
11  per  cent  to  the  world’s  gross  domestic  product  by 
2025. Unfortunately, violence against women persists in 
all regions of the world. Girls and adolescents still lack 
sufficient access to information and quality education 
to reduce inequalities.
Second,  we  must  focus  on  the  implementation  of 
the  new  global  compacts  on  migration  and  refugees, 
which will benefit the nearly 260 million migrants and 
the nearly 25 million refugees who have been displaced 
by conflict and violence.
Third, we need to create decent work opportunities 
for  all.  This  represents  one  of  the  most  important 
challenges for public policies and the development and 
sustainability of social security systems.
Fourth, we must work to give greater attention to 
environmental protection and progress on agreements 
to curb climate change, as well as the implementation 
18-29769
5/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
of  the  Paris  Agreement.  Extreme  heat  waves,  forest 
fires,  storms  and  floods  are  leaving  behind  a  trail  of 
death  and  devastation.  In  August,  the  state  of  Kerala 
in  India  suffered  its  worst  monsoon  flooding  in 
recent history, which killed 400 people and displaced 
1  million  more  from  their  homes.  Hurricanes  killed 
thousands  of  people  in  2017,  making  them  the  cause 
of  some  of  the  deadliest  extreme-weather  disasters 
in  history.  We  have  a  responsibility  to  stop,  as  soon 
as  possible,  the  policies  and  habits  of  production  and 
consumption  that  are  destroying  our  planet.  I  have 
proposed to highlight the problem of plastic pollution 
as a widespread environmental hazard that affects the 
health and well-being of people around the world. The 
Great  Pacific  Garbage  Patch  is  more  than  four  times 
the size of Germany, or three times the size of France, 
and represents a latent threat to the Pacific coasts of the 
United States.
Fifth, it is important to strengthen the political and 
social commitment to people with disabilities. Greater 
awareness of the specific needs of that population is still 
needed. Accessibility, inclusive and quality education, 
and  decent  jobs  are  challenges  faced  by  the  largest 
minority of humankind, that is, people with disabilities.
Sixth,  we  must  revitalize  the  United  Nations.  We 
will focus on three areas: implementing system reforms; 
strengthening the revitalization process of the General 
Assembly in order to optimize its working methods and 
enhance its deliberative and decision-making role; and 
continuing the reform process of the Security Council, 
in keeping with the will and commitment of States.
Seventh, peace and security and the role of young 
people in conflict prevention deserve due attention. The 
Assembly  must  become  the  principal  peacebuilding 
organ  through  a  preventive  approach.  Sustainable 
peace  must  be  rooted  in  dialogue  and  understanding, 
and facilitating that dialogue will be my priority. The 
General  Assembly  must  promote  efforts  to  ensure 
greater  opportunities  for  and  political  participation 
by  young  people  in  order  to  prevent  conditions  from 
arising that inexorably lead them to violent extremism.
Peace and security constitute one of the central axes 
of the work of the Organization. The most acute conflicts 
and  disputes  must  be  resolved  through  dialogue, 
rapprochement, generosity and mutual understanding, 
even where there are religious and cultural differences. 
In  recent  months,  some  of  those  present  have  taken 
significant  steps  towards  understanding  and  peace, 
which encourages us and merits our recognition.
In  July,  the  President  of  Eritrea  and  the  Prime 
Minister of Ethiopia signed a Joint Declaration of Peace 
and Friendship to end decades of conflict between the 
two  countries.  The  state  of  war  there  has  come  to  an 
end,  and  there  has  been  a  resumption  of  diplomatic 
relations, transport, trade and communications.
Recently, we saw the adoption of the Panmunjom 
Declaration  for  Peace,  Prosperity  and  Unification  of 
the  Korean  Peninsula  between  the  Republic  of  Korea 
and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. Both 
nations agreed to work together to end decades of war 
and conflict. That represents a historic milestone for a 
new era of peace and the denuclearization of the Korean 
peninsula. Both events give us hope in a world where 
many conflicts still await a peaceful solution.
The challenges faced by the Charter of the United 
Nations  have  evolved.  The  threats  of  climate  change, 
the  erosion  of  biodiversity,  human 
trafficking, 
environmental  pollution,  large  movements  of  both 
migrants  and  refugees,  terrorism  and  ethnic  conflicts 
have  risen  to  the  top  of  our  agenda.  We  have  entered 
a  technological  and  digital  era  that  fosters  economic, 
social and cultural exchanges that were unimaginable 
a few decades ago — challenges that the Organization 
will have to make itself better prepared to face.
That is why we must make progress in implementing 
the  reforms  to  the  United  Nations  system.  We  want 
a  more  effective  and  responsive  Organization  that 
reflects  the  political  and  economic  realities  of  a 
changing  world.  The  leadership  and  commitment  of 
States  and  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
António  Guterres,  are  encouraging 
for  decisive 
progress in those reforms. We must maintain our vision 
and  commitment  to  implement  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  as  that  is  the  only  way  of 
ensuring that all people can live in dignity and peace.
I invite all present to devote particular attention to 
the vulnerabilities of countries in special situations and 
the efforts needed for them to fulfil their Sustainable 
Development  Goals.  For  example,  the  small  island 
States,  landlocked  countries  and  the  least  developed 
nations  require  our  shared  responsibility  to  achieve 
those Goals.
6/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
(spoke in French)
I  reaffirm  my  commitment  to  Africa  and  its 
peoples. Let us dedicate our best efforts to accelerating 
the  implementation  of  Africa’s  development  agenda. 
Let  us  not  only  talk  about  Africa,  but  let  us  also  act 
with Africa.
One  of 
the 
Organization is to achieve a definitive and lasting peace 
in the Middle East, in line with the implementation of 
the resolutions adopted by the Assembly.
(spoke in English)
the  outstanding  challenges  of 
This  year,  we  commemorate 
the  seventieth 
anniversary  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. The fight for human rights remains a challenge 
in the world.
Seventy  years  ago,  a  great  woman,  Mrs.  Eleanor 
Roosevelt,  led the work of the Human Rights Commission 
in charge of drafting the Universal Declaration. One of 
her statements illustrates, in a simple way, why we must 
work to bring this Organization and its decisions closer 
to our peoples. Mrs. Roosevelt asked:
“Where,  after  all,  do  universal  human  rights 
begin? In small places, close to home — so close 
and so small that they cannot be seen on any of the 
maps  of  the  world.  Yet  they  are  the  world  of  the 
individual  person;  the  neighbourhood  he  lives  in; 
the school or college he attends; the factory, farm 
or office where he works.
“Such are the places where every man, woman 
and  child  seeks  equal  justice,  equal  opportunity, 
equal dignity without discrimination. Unless these 
rights have meaning there, they have little meaning 
anywhere.  Without  concerted  citizen  action  to 
uphold them close to home, we shall look in vain 
for progress in the larger world.”
(spoke in Spanish)
I  wish  to  inaugurate  the  seventy-third  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  with  an  effusive  appeal  to  the 
world’s leaders to live up to the needs of our peoples and 
not to falter in their attempts to build a more peaceful, 
safer and more humane world order, where each person 
can find their place with dignity. Let us build, then, a 
United Nations that is more relevant to all people.
Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning, I would like to remind members that the list 
A/73/PV.6
of speakers for the general debate has been established 
on the agreed basis that statements should be no longer 
than 15 minutes so as to enable all the speakers to be 
heard at a given meeting.
I would like to appeal to speakers to deliver their 
statements at a reasonable pace within this time frame, 
so  that  interpretation  into  the  other  official  United 
Nations languages may be provided properly.
I would also like to draw attention to the decision 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  previous  sessions, 
namely, that the practice of expressing congratulations 
inside  the  General  Assembly  Hall  after  a  speech  has 
been delivered is strongly discouraged.
In that connection, after delivering their statements, 
speakers are invited to exit the General Assembly Hall 
through  room  GA-200,  located  behind  the  rostrum, 
before returning to their seats.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed in the same manner during the general debate 
of the seventy-third session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Finally,  I  should  like  to  draw  the 
attention of members to the fact that during the general 
debate official photographs of all the speakers are taken 
by  the  Department  of  Public  Information.  Members 
interested in obtaining such photographs are requested 
to contact the Photo Library of the United Nations.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Michel Temer, 
President of the Federative Republic of Brazil
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Federative Republic of Brazil.
Mr.  Michel  Temer,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Michel Temer, 
President of the Federative Republic of Brazil, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Temer  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  an 
honour  for  Brazil  and  it  gives  us  great  pleasure  to 
officially open this general debate.
18-29769
7/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
I am pleased to greet the President of the General 
Assembly,  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés,  the  first 
Latin American woman to hold that high office at the 
United  Nations.  Allow  me  to  reiterate,  Madam,  my 
wishes for your every success, and rest assured that you 
can count on Brazil.
It is also particularly satisfying to greet Secretary-
General António Guterres in our common language.
How  many  speakers  have  already  come  to  this 
rostrum to call for the improvement of the international 
order  that  we  have  been  building  for  decades?  There 
have certainly been many, myself included. I believe we 
were and still are right to do so, and the words we spoke 
remain relevant.
to 
if  we 
However, 
truly  want 
improve  our 
international  collective  order,  yet  another  task  is 
required  of  us  today:  to  defend  the  very  integrity  of 
that  order.  However  imperfect  it  may  be,  the  current 
order  has  nevertheless  served  the  greater  interests 
of humankind.
There  are  numerous  challenges  to  the  integrity 
of  the  current  international  order.  We  live  in  times 
clouded  by  isolationist  forces.  Old  intolerances  are 
re-emerging.  Unilateral  relapses  are 
increasingly  
becoming  less  the  exception  than  the  rule.  Yet  those 
challenges should not and cannot intimidate us. When 
it comes to isolationism, intolerance and unilateralism, 
we must respond to each of those tendencies with the 
very best that our peoples have.
Brazil  has  been  responding  to  the  first  of  those 
tendencies  —  isolationism  —  with  more  openness 
and  more  integration.  Brazil  is  keenly  aware  that  our 
common  development  ultimately  depends  on  more 
international  trade  and  investment  flows.  It  depends 
on  increased  contact  with  new  ideas  and  with  new 
technologies.  We  will  build  prosperity  that  can  be 
effectively  shared  only  by  opening  ourselves 
to 
others,  rather  than  by  withdrawing  into  introspection 
and isolation.
That is how Brazil has acted. We have implemented 
a universalist foreign policy. We have worked to deepen 
integration  mechanisms  in  our  geographic  region. 
Within  the  South  American  Common  Market,  for 
example,  we  have  reaffirmed  the  group’s  democratic 
calling,  brought  trade  barriers  down  and  entered  into 
new agreements. We have been pushing for strengthened 
ties with the countries forming the Pacific Alliance so 
as  to  seek  an  increasingly  united  Latin  America,  as 
enshrined in our Constitution.
We  have  also  revitalized  and  initiated  trade 
negotiations  with  partners  in  all  regions,  such  as  the 
European Union, the European Free Trade Association, 
Canada,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Singapore,  Lebanon, 
Morocco  and  Tunisia.  Through 
these  and  other 
initiatives, we continue to strengthen our relationships 
with the Americas as a whole, as well as with Europe, 
Asia and Africa.
in  cooperation 
Brazil’s  participation 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries, 
forums, 
such as the G-20, the BRICS group of Brazil, Russia, 
India,  China  and  South  Africa,  and  the  Community 
of 
been 
especially productive. In those forums we have worked 
to  produce  tangible  results  that  have  a  direct  impact 
on  the  daily  life  of  our  societies.  It  is  with  openness 
and  integration  that  we  approach  a  better  future  for 
all.  Isolation  may  provide  a  false  sense  of  security. 
Protectionism  may  sound  seductive.  But  it  is  with 
openness  and  integration  that  we  achieve  harmony, 
growth and progress.
has 
Turning  to  the  challenge  posed  by  intolerance, 
Brazil  has  responded  decisively  with  dialogue  and 
solidarity,  which  inspire  us,  at  every  moment,  to 
honour  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights. 
The  implementation  of  that  document,  created  almost 
70 years ago, is an imperative that requires permanent 
attention and action. Much has already been done for 
the sake of human rights by Governments, institutions 
and  individuals.  One  such  remarkable  individual  was 
Sérgio Vieira de Mello, a Brazilian national to whom 
I  wish  to  pay  tribute  as  we  remember  the  fifteenth 
anniversary of his tragic death.
We  must  nonetheless  acknowledge  that  violations 
of international norms protecting individuals and their 
dignity persist worldwide. In Latin America, Brazil has 
been working to uphold democracy and human rights. 
We will continue to do so with so many other countries 
in solidarity with brotherly peoples that have suffered 
so much.
Dialogue and solidarity also form the basis for the 
recently  agreed  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and 
regular  migration.  There  are  more  than  250  million 
migrants  in  the  world.  These  are  men,  women  and 
children  who,  threatened  by  protracted  crises,  are 
faced  with  the  hard  and  risky  choice  of  leaving  their 
homelands.  It  is  our  duty  to  protect  them,  and  that  is 
8/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
the very purpose of the global compact on migration. 
It now falls on us to conclude the negotiations on the 
global compact on refugees.
In  South  America,  a  large-scale  migratory  wave 
is under way. It is estimated that more than 1 million 
Venezuelans have left their country in search of better 
living  conditions.  Brazil  has  welcomed  all  those  who 
have arrived in our territory. We have sought to provide 
assistance of all types to tens of thousands of migrants. 
In  cooperation  with  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees, we have built shelters 
to protect them as best as we can. We have sought to 
relocate them throughout the country. We have issued 
documents that enable them to work in Brazil. We have 
offered schooling for the children, and vaccination and 
health  services  for  all.  But  we  know  that  this  crisis 
can be resolved only when our neighbour, Venezuela, 
rediscovers the path of development.
Brazil  has  a  proud 
tradition  of  welcoming 
foreigners. As a people, we have been forged through 
diversity.  There  is  a  piece  of  the  world  in  every 
Brazilian. Faithful to that tradition, last year we passed 
a new migration law — a modern piece of legislation 
that not only protects the immigrant’s dignity but also 
recognizes  the  benefits  of  immigration.  We  in  Brazil 
have  expanded  rights  and  have  streamlined  the  entry 
and residence process.
Dialogue and solidarity are antidotes to intolerance, 
and  they  are  the  foundation  for  a  lasting  peace.  That 
has  been  the  cornerstone  of  the  Brazilian  position 
regarding the various crises in the Middle East. As it 
joins the celebrations of the seventieth anniversary of 
the creation of Israel, Brazil renews its support for the 
two-State solution — Israel and Palestine living side by 
side in peace and security.
We  also  support  international  efforts  to  bring  the 
conflict in Syria to a long overdue end. We have sought 
to help alleviate the great suffering there. In 2017 alone, 
for example, Brazil donated approximately one ton of 
medicines  and  vaccines  for  children  affected  by  the 
conflict. We have also welcomed a considerable number 
of Syrian refugees.
It  is  through  dialogue  and  solidarity  that  we  will 
overcome intolerance and build peace. As expressed by 
Nelson  Mandela,  whose  centenary  we  commemorate 
this  year,  it  is  our  duty  to  strive  towards  “a  world  of 
tolerance  and  respect  for  difference”,  and  to  show  an 
unwavering  “commitment  to  peaceful  solutions  of 
conflicts and disputes”.
Lastly, the challenge of unilateralism must be met 
with more diplomacy and more multilateralism. We do 
so  firmly  convinced  that  collective  problems  demand 
coordinated  solutions.  That  is  noblest  meaning  of  the 
United Nations — a house for mutual understanding.
We  must  strengthen  the  Organization.  We  must 
make it more legitimate and effective. We need important 
reforms  —  among  them  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, whose current configuration reflects a world 
that  no  longer  exists.  Finally,  we  must  reinvigorate 
the values of diplomacy and multilateralism. We have 
shown time and again what we are capable of together 
when those values guide our actions, such as when we 
took a historic step last year in concluding the Treaty on 
the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. I had the honour of 
being the first Head of State to sign it.
That  is  also  how,  over  the  course  of  decades,  we 
built a robust multilateral trade system with increasingly 
comprehensive  rules  and  a  credible  and  effective 
dispute-settlement mechanism. Those are shared historic 
achievements, which we must honour and broaden by 
eliminating the many distortions in agricultural trade, 
which primarily affect developing countries.
Diplomacy  and  multilateralism  provide  us  with 
effective  solutions  well  beyond  disarmament,  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  international  trade.  The  same 
is  true  in  many  other  areas,  such  as  sustainable 
development,  which 
future 
of humankind.
is  crucial 
for 
the 
I  note  that  in  recent  years  alone,  we  adopted  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris 
Agreement. Those are true milestones that put us on the 
path of economic development with social justice and 
respect for the environment. Brazil’s early commitment 
to sustainable development remains unwavering. There 
is no shortage of examples.
On  the  Korean  peninsula,  dialogue  and  solidarity 
represent the cornerstone of our position. We reiterate 
our  support  for  diplomatic  solutions 
to 
denuclearization and peace.
leading 
We  are  fully  committed  to  the  shift  towards  a 
low-carbon  international  economy.  Over  40  per  cent 
of Brazil’s energy portfolio is clean and renewable. It 
is  one  of  the  most  sustainable  in  the  world.  We  have 
18-29769
9/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
also stepped up efforts to reduce deforestation. Long-
term  trends  are  encouraging.  Today,  in  the  Brazilian 
Amazon  region,  deforestation  rates  are  75  per  cent 
lower than in 2004. Over the past two years, we have 
created  and  expanded  environmental  protection  areas
in Brazil, which are now more than four times the size 
of Norway.
The protection of the oceans is another cause that 
is  dear  to  us.  During  the  World  Water  Forum,  which 
we hosted in Brasilia earlier this year, we established 
protected areas in Brazilian waters as vast as Germany 
and  France  combined.  In  two  years,  we  have  doubled 
the size of protected areas in Brazil.
Diplomacy  and  multilateralism  are  also  decisive 
instruments  for  global  security,  as  demonstrated  by 
United Nations peacekeeping missions, in which Brazil 
is  proud  to  play  a  major  role.  And  make  no  mistake, 
they  are  also  decisive 
instruments  for  defeating 
terrorism and fighting transnational crime. Trafficking 
in  persons,  arms  and  drugs,  money  laundering,  and 
sexual  exploitation  are  crimes  that  know  no  borders. 
They  are  scourges  that  corrode  our  societies  and  can 
be effectively tackled only through concerted policies 
and actions.
That is what we have done in our region. In Brasilia, 
we  hosted  the  first  ministerial  meeting  of  South 
American countries on border security. Since then, we 
have  stepped  up  cooperation  with  our  neighbours  in 
combating transnational crime. We must remain united 
in the collective task of building a world where peace, 
development  and  human  rights  prevail.  Absolutely 
nothing will be achieved alone. We will achieve nothing 
without diplomacy and multilateralism.
This is the last time that I will have the privilege 
of representing my country in the general debate at the 
General  Assembly  as  the  President  of  the  Republic. 
In  two  weeks,  the  Brazilian  people  will  go  to  the 
polls.  They  will  choose  their  political  leaders  in  both 
the  executive  and  the  legislative  branches,  who  will 
govern  Brazil  starting  in  2019,  as  enshrined  in  our 
Constitution. That is what has been done for almost 30 
year, and that is how it must always be. After all, we 
are Government officials chosen by the people because 
all  power  comes  from  the  people,  and  the  President 
holds  the  power  only  for  a  fixed  period.  The  transfer 
of  power  is  the  very  essence  of  democracy.  Ours  is  a 
vibrant  democracy  anchored  by  solid  institutions.  As 
I turn over the presidency to my successor, I will have 
the peace of mind of having fulfilled my duties.
Today,  in  Brazil,  we  can  look  back  and  realize 
how much we have accomplished in such a short term 
of office. We rejected populism, and we overcame the 
worst recession in our history, with severe consequences 
for society, especially for the poor. We managed public 
finances  responsibly  and  restored  our  economic 
credibility.  We  are  growing  and  creating  jobs  again. 
Social  programmes  once  threatened  by  uncontrolled 
spending  have  been  rescued  and  expanded.  We  put 
Brazil back on the path of development.
The  country  that  I  will  hand  over  to  whomever 
the  Brazilian  people  elect  will  be  better  than  the  one 
I received. Much remains to be done, but we are back 
on  track.  It  is  time  to  move  ahead.  The  incoming 
Administration and National Congress will find a solid 
foundation  upon  which  a  more  prosperous  and  just 
country can continue to be built.
The members of the General Assembly know that 
Brazil  will  always  be  a  steady  ally  for  cooperation 
among  nations.  In  the  face  of  isolationism,  Brazil 
responds  with  more  openness  and  integration.  In  the 
face of intolerance, it responds with increased dialogue 
and  solidarity.  And,  in  the  face  of  unilateralism,  it 
responds with more diplomacy and multilateralism.
In the words of the late Kofi Annan:
“Our  mission  is  to  confront  ignorance  with 
knowledge,  bigotry  with  tolerance,  and  isolation 
with the outstretched hand of generosity”.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Michel  Temer,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Lenin Moreno Garcés, 
Constitutional President of the Republic of Ecuador
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Constitutional President 
of the Republic of Ecuador.
Mr. Lenin Moreno Garcés, Constitutional President 
of the Republic of Ecuador, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall.
10/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Lenin Moreno 
Garcés,  Constitutional  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Ecuador, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Moreno  Garcés  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Everything in life is cause and effect, and every effect 
has a cause. Human beings tend to look to the past to 
find similarities in order to predict the future, because 
we  are,  inescapably  and  permanently,  governed  by 
cause and effect.
We, the rulers, leaders and decision-makers, have 
an immense responsibility to alter the way in which the 
world perceives its future. Our peoples must understand 
that  causality  is  not  inevitability.  On  the  contrary, 
people have the ability to change their circumstances. 
In order for them to do so, the international policies that 
are  shaped  here,  in  the  most  important  of  the  world’s 
forums, must help us to empower our societies and to 
conceive of history as something that we can change. 
Policies  are  successful  when  they  seek  to  resolve 
everyone’s  personal  stories,  especially  those  of  the 
poorest, neediest and most disenfranchised — because 
we are nations united to change the history of peoples.
Our  Government  plan  is  called  A  Whole  Life, 
because that is who we are and what we do. At the end 
of the day, we have a whole life to be right and wrong, 
to dream, to build and to love. It is up to us to analyse 
and  manage  the  consequences.  The  plan  is  called  A 
Whole Life because we want to attend to human beings 
from  the  moment  of  conception  to  the  moment  that 
God decides to close their eyes — to their departure. 
Depending  on  where  each  person  is  in  his  or  her  life 
cycle,  our  attention  could  involve  care,  inspiration, 
encouragement, support or gratitude.
Care  and  inspiration  are  more  appropriate  for  the 
first stage. Caring for mothers and children, before and 
after birth, and looking after that child during its first 
1,000 days of life is a mission of warmth.
Then  comes  the  stage  of  inspiring  those  little 
ones  to  enjoy  themselves,  to  play,  to  study  and  to  be 
happy.  We  must  teach  them  to  love  science  and  to  be 
passionate about technology. It is important to study, but 
it is perhaps more constructive and enlightening to be 
creative, to love research, to indulge one’s imagination, 
to explore the challenges of technology, to continuously 
cultivate  one’s  values  and  to  never  stop  playing  and 
experimenting  with  colours,  sounds,  smells,  textures, 
flavours and knowledge.
After that comes encouragement, aimed at offering 
young  people  knowledge  that  will  serve  them  in  the 
future, in their professional career, and at encouraging 
them to be enterprising and to hold themselves in high 
esteem.  We  must  make  their  future  more  transparent 
and less complicated. We must help them learn to love 
life  and  to  discover  the  beauty  of  their  environment, 
so  that  they  are  never  forced  to  seek  satisfaction  or 
security  in  foreign  substances.  We  must  encourage 
them  with  praise,  with  greater  participation  and  with 
confidence in their abilities and their dreams.
Support is for the adult, perhaps. We support adults 
in their efforts to get jobs, build families and succeed in 
their endeavours aimed at ensuring social and personal 
security and, above all, to put a roof over their heads. 
We have called that mission A House for All.
Finally  comes  gratitude,  which  seeks  to  enable 
our  elders  to  live  out  their  lives  knowing  that  their 
society appreciates what they have done. Let them live 
surrounded  by  love,  company  and  care,  so  that  those 
years can be their best.
Someone once asked me how these proposals were 
born,  and  I  answered  with  several  maybes.  Maybe  it 
is  because  I  was  born  and  spent  my  childhood  in  the 
heart of the Amazon, the lung of the world, in the most 
diverse tropical rainforest on the planet. There I became 
familiar with the deep problems of an abandoned region. 
I could see how precarious health and life was without 
minimum  coverage  for  human  beings.  Many  children 
died, and many mothers perished with them.
Within  the  framework  of  the  General  Assembly, 
two fundamental health issues will be addressed at the 
highest  level  —  tuberculosis  and  non-transmissible 
diseases.  It  is  my  hope  and  Ecuador’s  commitment, 
above all, that those discussions will lead to agreements 
for and commitments to concrete action. It is scandalous, 
unjust and immoral that access to life-saving medicines 
is  often  limited  because  intellectual  property  and 
the  profits  of  the  big  pharmaceutical  companies  are 
favoured  over  a  universal  right  to  health.  It  is  that 
kind  of  discussion  that  enables  the  United  Nations  to 
have meaning in the daily lives of the world’s citizens. 
The  more  we  strive  to  enable  our  United  Nations  to 
touch  people’s  lives,  the  more  we  will  strengthen  the 
Organization for the future.
18-29769
11/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
Maybe it is because, after several years of playing 
in  my  neighbourhood,  surrounded  by  supportive 
neighbours, I learned the value of community life. We 
would  visit  people’s  homes,  the  neighbours  took  care 
of us, we helped one other in all circumstances and we 
celebrated our achievements in community. In fact, the 
ideal of shared peace and life was also the genesis of the 
United Nations.
We cannot forget that this must be the heart of the 
discussion  of  the  large  and  small  problems  existing 
among  countries,  and  that,  within  the  framework  of 
that  discussion,  we  must  call  for  ongoing  dialogue, 
as  mentioned  by  President  Temer,  for  reciprocity  as 
an  institution,  for  strengthening  multilateralism,  for 
listening to one another in dialogue, but above all, for 
listening to those who live in situations that we wish to 
analyse, address and solve.
Maybe it is because when I was young, I and other 
colleagues  had  excellent  ideas,  but  lacked  both  the 
knowledge and the capacity to carry out our hopes. We 
therefore had to live through the anguish of not having 
start-up  capital  for  our  businesses,  and  we  suffered 
long  nights  when  monthly  payments  were  due,  while 
also struggling to pay our workers. We learned at first 
hand  not  to  allow  ourselves  to  be  undervalued  for 
being  young.  We  learned  the  decisive  role  of  private 
enterprise.  We  understood  that  entrepreneurship  is  a 
value  that  generates  production,  wealth,  employment, 
well-being, self-esteem and freedom.
Today,  the  private  sector  in  the  global  arena 
is  more  aware  of  its  role  —  extending  far  beyond 
profit,  production  and  employment.  Today,  large, 
medium-sized and small enterprises have thousands of 
communicating vessels, which, by understanding their 
purpose,  which  is  to  ensure  well-being  in  their  daily 
actions, can be key actors for global action to promote 
peace  and  prosperity.  In  that  connection,  we  must 
together  keep  the  commitments  we  have  undertaken, 
such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which promotes partnership as a core element.
Maybe it is because 20 years ago, I was assaulted 
and lost the use of my legs. As those present can see, 
I  am  wheelchair-bound.  Is  that  bad?  I  do  not  know. 
Chinese  wisdom  says  that  things  are  neither  so  bad, 
nor so good. It was bad because returning home from 
the hospital was hard; there were no more intravenous 
tubes or painkillers, but rather a constant and persistent 
pain. I was reminded of Francis of Assisi, who spoke 
of  the  pain  of  another,  because  I  found  that  there  are 
other, and perhaps even greater, pains. It was also good 
because now, from my wheelchair, I see at the height 
of the heart. When people have legs, they see straight 
and  upwards.  Whereas  from  a  wheelchair,  we  see 
horizontally and downwards, and as such, we discover 
other realities and worlds. We see those who encounter 
obstacles  impeding  them  in  their  efforts  to  move 
forward, to continue, and even to live  — obstacles of 
varying 
types:  mistreatment,  xenophobia,  racism, 
injustice,  machismo  and  inequity,  in  other  words, 
exclusion. That story is not just my story; it is the story 
of 1 billion people around the world.
I welcome the fact that one of the main topics to be 
addressed is the implementation of the United Nations 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 
The implementation of that Convention and its Optional 
Protocol  is  the  best  guarantee  that,  together,  we  will 
fulfil a pending commitment. In that regard, Ecuador 
is honoured to hold the presidency of the Conference of 
States Parties to the Convention for the next two years.
From  that  position,  we  will  contribute  to  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  the  rights  of  persons 
with  disabilities,  as  well  as  step  up  efforts  already  in 
motion to achieve greater accessibility, with a view to 
enabling the United Nations to become truly inclusive. 
We  are  not  only  talking  about  physical  accessibility, 
but also about having people with disabilities and their 
rights be considered in all United Nations discussions, 
resolutions and initiatives.
Maybe because now, just as in the past, as I travel 
around my country and the world, I see exclusion and 
injustice. We exclude the different, the poor, the elderly, 
the  young.  We  mistreat  women,  girls  and  indigenous 
people.  There  are  so  many  abandoned  and  forgotten 
brothers and sisters. Many people simply pass by, without 
even noticing their presence. As States Members of the 
United Nations we cannot allow indolence and idleness, 
misery and injustice to continue to be part of the daily 
landscape.  That  is  what  the  Sustainable  Development 
Goals draw attention to. They are a fundamental part 
of the programme that my Government has proposed to 
the Ecuadorian people, which we have called, and I will 
repeat, A Whole Life.
Maybe because it is evident to me that we want to 
be  happy  throughout  life,  and  that  is  why  we  govern. 
We  are  here  in  a  great  country.  The  Declaration  of 
Independence of the United States of America, written 
12/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
by  Thomas  Jefferson,  John  Adams  and  Benjamin 
Franklin, states in its famous second sentence,
“We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evident,  that 
all  men  are  created  equal,  that  they  are  endowed 
by  their  creator  with  certain  unalienable  rights, 
that  among  these  are  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit 
of happiness”.
What  a  phrase  “the  pursuit  of  happiness”  is.  That 
sentence  inspired,  inter  alia,  the  Constitution  of  this 
great country — a reference for the world that inspires 
scientific research and development.
For  that  reason,  and  maybe  because  we  always 
follow  world  events  closely,  we  do  not  understand 
how  a  country  like  this  one  can  blockade  an  almost 
defenceless  people  such  as  Cuba.  It  is  impossible  for 
us  to  understand  blockades  against  others,  including 
possibly  their  rights  to  life,  freedom  and  the  pursuit 
of happiness.
Maybe  because  we  were  young  idealists  and  we 
continue to be dissatisfied adults, we do not understand 
how  the  great  Powers  can  spend  their  resources  on 
weapons,  instead  of  investing  in  the  development  of 
peoples. For that reason, perhaps, we do not understand 
how  those  countries  that  have  achieved  development 
and  superiority  in  armaments  and  have  also  felt  the 
pain of war through their own children can intervene 
in other people’s conflicts, not with a view to helping 
to resolve them, but to the contrary, to aggravate, and 
even perpetuate, them.
Maybe  because  when  unscrupulous  bankers 
raided  the  pockets  of  Ecuadorians,  we  saw  families 
and children left helpless and turn to migration. When 
Governments deviate from their objective of caring for 
the poorest and the most vulnerable, those people seek 
better opportunities outside of and far from their own 
land. No one abandons their beloved land voluntarily.
In Ecuador, we receive an inflow of at least 6,000 
Venezuelan  brothers  and  sisters  daily.  The  children 
arrive with measles, diphtheria and polio, and pregnant 
women  arrive  never  having  had  a  check-up.  We  have 
earmarked  more 
those 
beautiful and defenceless children, and we have carried 
out tens of thousands of health check-ups on the more 
than 1 million brothers and sisters who have left their 
homes in search of better luck in the largest diaspora in 
the history of our continent.
than  50,000  vaccines  for 
We  have  urged  the  Venezuelan  Government  and 
people  to  resolve  their  crisis,  as  they  should,  through 
a candid and inclusive national dialogue. We recently 
invited the brother countries of the region to practice 
solidarity, in a practical and integrated manner, with the 
Venezuelan migrants, displaced persons and refugees. 
We do not want our countries to be left standing alone 
merely with diplomatic statements. We want continent-
wide action to find a structural solution to the problems 
of our fraternal people of Venezuela. I reiterate that no 
one migrates of their own volition. They do so because 
they are forced to be uprooted and to painfully distance 
themselves from their families and emotions.
José  Martí  said  that  when  a  people  emigrates, 
their  rulers  are  the  leftovers.  There  are  plenty  who 
prolong their stay in power and become dark, sinister 
Governments with corrupt mafias. And just as we are 
in solidarity with those who come to us, we also invite 
our own long-departed to return to their place of birth 
and reintegrate into the big family that is their country.
The  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and  regular 
migration was adopted by Ecuador in July and will be 
adopted  at  the  global  level  in  December  in  Morocco. 
We cannot let that compact become a dead letter. We 
must keep in mind that inclusion has no borders, and 
that the rights of others to life and happiness do not end 
where mine begin. Both rights are an inherent part of 
human  beings.  They  are  interdependent  and  enriched 
by being interwoven through cohabitation.
With  regard  to  the  Venezuelan  crisis  —  or  that 
which Nicaragua is experiencing — our Latin America 
has the great challenge of strengthening its democracy 
after  various  countries  have  endured  authoritarian, 
corrupt and populist Governments. The history of the 
United  Nations  is  the  history  of  a  common  pact  for 
the preservation of the human rights of the citizens of 
the world.
Rights  can  be  guaranteed  only  within 
the 
framework  of  solid  institutions,  with  ample  freedom 
of  expression  and  transitions  of  power,  which  are  the 
fundamental  elements  of  solid  democracies  and  must 
be  the  commitment  of  our  nations  in  order  to  build 
those  democracies,  care  for  them  and  treasure  them. 
My Government maintains its democratic commitment 
and, in each of its actions and decisions, preserves its 
commitment to the original ideals of our United Nations.
The late Kofi Annan, a great man who left so many 
important  lessons,  said  that,  in  the  face  of  growing 
18-29769
13/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
cynicism about democracy, we should not give up but 
rather  defend  and  advocate  for  the  values  and  virtues 
of democracy.
Madam  President,  our  dear  friend  and  colleague 
María  Fernanda  Espinosa,  you  are  the  first  Latin 
American woman to preside over the Assembly. Ecuador 
is grateful for the support of our sister nations in your 
election, and we are aware of the immense responsibility 
that you have at the helm of this global forum.
We will all support work aimed at ensuring that the 
United  Nations  is  relevant  to  our  peoples.  We  are  the 
Organization that unites our nations in their concerns 
and  their  aspirations.  We  see  the  international  efforts 
made  by  the  United  Nations  to  care  for  us,  for  our 
children and for our neighbours. That is why we support 
its  plan  for  disarmament;  that  is  why  we  support  the 
global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, 
and why we promote the Convention on the Rights of 
Persons  with  Disabilities  and  its  Optional  Protocol 
(resolution  61/106),  along  with  a  lenghty  list  of  other 
actions, commitments and decisions.
The  United  Nations  is  our  Organization.  If  there 
are flaws in it, let us correct them. We must not try to 
disrupt it nor revoke funding from it, because we must 
strengthen it if we want to provide our children with a 
bright future. If we are going to create complementary 
organizations  —  for  example,  in  order  to  bolster 
trade systems or specific regional projects on culture, 
education or sport — these are most welcome, so long 
as their objectives are to strengthen the global union, 
to implement the Sustainable Development Goals and 
to  honour  all  the  historic  commitments  that  we  have 
undersigned. However, we do not believe in, nor should 
we use, regional organizations to defend anachronistic, 
perverse and dictatorial systems, some of which were 
born and then, fortunately, died in recent decades.
This institution is the most important living symbol 
of the world’s commitment to peace. For years we have 
often spoken at length about peace, but no one has been 
able to surpass Gandhi’s definition of peace as the sole 
path for humankind.
Peace is our right. It is a sine qua non condition for 
life  and  happiness.  Ecuador  is  currently  experiencing 
serious  problems  affecting  our  internal  peace  owing 
to violence on the northern border. We benefit greatly 
from  mutual  help  from  the  President  of  Colombia, 
our dear friend Ivan Duque. We are also dealing with 
international crime and drug trafficking, and we have 
made a commitment to put an end to them.
As each cause will have its effect, and each effect 
continues  to  transform  itself  into  yet  another  cause, 
we  know  that  working  for  world  peace  is  a  constant 
obligation.  This  is  because  it  has  not  yet  fully  taken 
root in the heart of every human being. As a father and 
a  grandfather,  I  know  that  there  will  be  no  peace,  if 
we  do  not  inculcate  the  proper  values  throughout  our 
peoples’  lives.  I  know  that  kindness,  for  example,  is 
not  a  matter  of  public  interest,  and  civility,  honesty 
and transparency are not subjects taught in schools and 
universities,  but  they  must  be  instilled  in  the  hearts 
of all human beings. Otherwise, we will never lay the 
foundations for a peaceful coexistence — the very goal 
of our Organization, which welcomes us today.
As  a  native  of  the  Amazon  region,  I  know  very 
well that there will be no peace if we do not preserve 
the  planet.  We  must  regard  the  jungle  not  as  simply 
the  lungs  but  as  the  heart  of  our  world.  As  a  person 
with disabilities, I know that there will be no peace if 
we  do  not  embrace  inclusion  and  celebrate  diversity. 
Diversity  does  not  mean  suffering;  diversity  means 
living and enjoying it. As a President, I know that peace 
is definitively favourable for those who are poorest and 
is crucial for those who are most in need. Peace ensures 
that everyone, without exception, is free to realize their 
dreams every day for the rest of their lives.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I wish to thank the President of the Republic of Ecuador 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Lenin  Moreno  Garcés,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Ecuador,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Donald Trump, President of the 
United States of America
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the President of the United States of America.
Mr.  Donald  Trump,  President  of 
the  United 
States  of  America,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the  United  Nations 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Donald  Trump,  President  of  the 
United States of America, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
14/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
President  Trump:  One  year  ago,  I  stood  before 
the Assembly for the first time in this Hall (see A/72/
PV.3).  I  addressed  the  threats  facing  our  world,  and 
I  presented  a  vision  to  achieve  a  brighter  future  for 
all  of  humankind.  Today,  I  stand  before  the  General 
Assembly to share the extraordinary progress that we 
have made. In less than two years, my Administration 
has accomplished more than almost any Administration 
in the history of our country.
America’s economy is booming like never before. 
Since my election, we have added $10 trillion in wealth. 
The  stock  market  is  at  an  all-time  high  in  history, 
and  jobless  claims  are  at  a  50-year  low.  African-
American,  Hispanic-American  and  Asian-American 
unemployment have all achieved their lowest levels ever 
recorded. We have added more than 4 million new jobs, 
including half a million manufacturing jobs. We passed 
the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. 
We started the construction of a major border wall and 
we have greatly strengthened border security. We have 
secured record funding for our military — $700 billion 
this year and $716 billion next year. Our military will 
soon be more powerful than it has ever been before.
In  other  words,  the  United  States  is  a  stronger, 
safer  and  richer  country  than  it  was  when  I  assumed 
office less than two years ago. We are standing up for 
America  and  for  the  American  people.  We  are  also 
standing  up  for  the  world.  This  is  great  news  for  our 
citizens  and  for  peace-loving  people  everywhere.  We 
believe  that,  when  nations  respect  the  rights  of  their 
neighbours  and  defend  the  interests  of  their  people, 
they can better work together to secure the blessings of 
safety, prosperity and peace.
Each of us here today is the emissary of a distinct 
culture,  a  rich  history  and  a  people  bound  together 
by ties of memory, tradition and the values that make 
our  homelands  like  nowhere  else  on  Earth.  That  is 
why  America  will  always  choose  independence  and 
cooperation  over  global  governance,  control  and 
domination. I honour the right of every nation in this 
Hall to pursue its own customs, beliefs and traditions. 
The  United  States  will  not  tell  nations  how  to  live  or 
work  or  worship.  We  only  ask  that  you  honour  our 
sovereignty in return.
From  Warsaw  to  Brussels  and  from  Tokyo  to 
Singapore, it has been my highest honour to represent 
the  United  States  abroad.  I  have  forged  close 
relationships  and  friendships  and  strong  partnerships 
with the leaders of many nations in this Hall, and our 
approach has always yielded incredible change.
With support from many countries here today, we 
have engaged with North Korea to replace the spectre 
of  conflict  with  a  bold  and  new  push  for  peace.  In 
June, I travelled to Singapore to meet face to face with 
North Korea’s leader, Chairman Kim Jong Un. We had 
highly  productive  conversations  and  meetings.  And 
we  agreed  that  it  was  in  both  countries’  interests  to 
pursue  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula. 
Since that meeting, we have already seen a number of 
encouraging  measures  that  few  could  have  imagined 
only a short time ago.
Missiles and rockets are no longer flying in every 
direction, nuclear testing has stopped and some military 
facilities  are  already  being  dismantled.  Our  hostages 
have been released and, as promised, the remains of our 
fallen heroes are being returned home to lay at rest in 
American  soil.  I  would  like  to  thank  Chairman  Kim 
for his courage and for the steps he has taken, though 
much work remains to be done. The sanctions will stay 
in place until denuclearization occurs.
I  also  want  to  thank  the  many  Member  States 
who  helped  us  reach  this  moment —  which  is  in  fact 
far  greater  than  people  might  understand —  for  their 
critical support, which we will all need going forward. 
I would also like to extend special thanks to President 
Moon of South Korea, Prime Minister Abe of Japan and 
President Xi of China.
In  the  Middle  East,  our  new  approach  is  also 
yielding  great  strides  and  historic  change.  Following 
my  trip  to  Saudi  Arabia  last  year,  the  Gulf  countries 
opened  a  new  centre  to  target  terrorist  financing. 
They are enforcing new sanctions, working with us to 
identify and track terrorist networks and taking more 
responsibility for fighting terrorism and extremism in 
their own region.
The United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Qatar 
have  pledged  billions  of  dollars  to  aid  the  people  of 
Syria and Yemen. They are pursuing multiple avenues 
to end Yemen’s horrible, horrific civil war. Ultimately, 
it is up to the nations of the region to decide what kind 
of future they want for themselves and their children.
For that reason, the United States is working with 
the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council,  Jordan  and  Egypt  to 
establish  a  regional  strategic  alliance  so  that  Middle 
18-29769
15/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
Eastern  nations  can  advance  prosperity,  stability  and 
security across their home region.
missiles, increase internal repression, finance terrorism 
and fund havoc and slaughter in Syria and Yemen.
Thanks  to  the  United  States  military  and  our 
partnership with many nations, I am pleased to report 
that the bloodthirsty killers known as the Islamic State 
in  Iraq  and  the  Sham  have  been  driven  out  from  the 
territory  they  once  held  in  Iraq  and  Syria.  We  will 
continue to work with friends and allies to deny radical 
Islamic  terrorists  any  funding,  territory  or  support  or 
any means of infiltrating our borders.
The  ongoing  tragedy  in  Syria  is  heartbreaking. 
Our shared goals must be the de-escalation of military 
conflict,  along  with  a  political  solution  that  honours 
the will of the Syrian people. In this vein, we urge that 
the United Nations-led peace process be reinvigorated. 
Rest assured, the United States will respond if chemical 
weapons are deployed by the Al-Assad regime.
I  commend  the  people  of  Jordan  and  other 
neighbouring  countries  for  hosting  refugees  from 
this  brutal  civil  war.  As  we  see  in  Jordan,  the  most 
compassionate  policy  is  to  place  refugees  as  close  to 
their  homes  as  possible  to  ease  their  eventual  return 
as  part  of  the  rebuilding  process.  This  approach  also 
stretches  finite  resources  to  help  far  more  people, 
increasing the impact of every dollar spent.
Every solution to the humanitarian crisis in Syria 
must also include a strategy to address the brutal regime 
that has fuelled and financed it: the corrupt dictatorship 
in Iran. Iran’s leaders sow chaos, death and destruction. 
They  do  not  respect  their  neighbours  or  borders  or 
the sovereign rights of nations. Instead, Iran’s leaders 
plunder the nation’s resources to enrich themselves and 
spread mayhem across the Middle East and far beyond. 
The  Iranian  people  are  rightly  outraged  that  their 
leaders have embezzled billions of dollars from Iran’s 
treasury, seized valuable portions of the economy and 
looted the people’s religious endowments — all to line 
their own pockets and send their proxies to wage war. 
Not good.
Iran’s  neighbours  have  paid  a  heavy  toll  for  the 
regime’s  agenda  of  aggression  and  expansion.  That  is 
why  so  many  countries  in  the  Middle  East  strongly 
supported  my  decision  to  withdraw  the  United  States 
from the horrible 2015 Iran nuclear deal and reimpose 
nuclear  sanctions.  The  Iran  deal  was  a  windfall  for 
Iran’s leaders. In the years since the deal was reached, 
Iran’s  military  budget  grew  nearly  40  per  cent.  The 
dictatorship  used  the  funds  to  build  nuclear-capable 
The  United  States  has  launched  a  campaign  of 
economic pressure to deny the regime the funds it needs 
to  advance  its  bloody  agenda.  Last  month,  we  began 
reimposing hard-hitting nuclear sanctions that had been 
lifted  under  the  Iran  deal.  Additional  sanctions  will 
resume 5 November, and more will follow. And we are 
working  with  countries  that  import  Iranian  crude  oil 
to  cut  their  purchases  substantially.  We  cannot  allow 
the world’s leading sponsor of terrorism to possess the 
planet’s  most  dangerous  weapons.  We  cannot  allow  a 
regime  that  chants  “Death  to  America”  and  threatens 
Israel with annihilation to possess the means to deliver 
a nuclear warhead to any city on Earth. We just cannot 
do it. We ask all nations to isolate Iran’s regime as long 
as its aggression continues. And we ask all nations to 
support Iran’s people as they struggle to reclaim their 
religious and righteous destiny.
This  year,  we  also  took  another  significant  step 
forward  in  the  Middle  East.  In  recognition  of  every 
sovereign  State’s  right  to  determine  its  own  capital,  I 
moved the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. 
The  United  States  is  committed  to  a  future  of  peace 
and stability in the region, including peace between the 
Israelis and the Palestinians. That aim is advanced, not 
harmed, by acknowledging the obvious facts. America’s 
policy of principled realism means we will not be held 
hostage to old dogmas, discredited ideologies and so-
called  experts  who  have  been  proven  wrong  over  the 
years,  time  and  time  again.  That  is  true  not  only  in 
matters of peace, but in matters of prosperity.
We believe that trade must be fair and reciprocal. The 
United States will not be taken advantage of any longer. 
For decades, the United States opened its economy — the 
largest,  by  far,  on  Earth  —  with  few  conditions.  We 
allowed foreign goods from all over the world to flow 
freely  across  our  borders.  Yet  other  countries  did  not 
grant  us  fair  and  reciprocal  access  to  their  markets 
in  return.  Even  worse,  some  countries  abused  their 
openness to dump their products, subsidize their goods, 
target our industries and manipulate their currencies to 
gain unfair advantage over our country. As a result, our 
trade deficit ballooned to nearly $800 billion a year. For 
that reason, we are systematically renegotiating broken 
and bad trade deals.
Last month, we announced a ground-breaking United 
States-Mexico  trade  agreement.  And  just  yesterday,  I 
16/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
stood with President Moon to announce the successful 
completion of the brand new United States-Korea trade 
deal. And that is just the beginning. Many nations in this 
Hall will agree that the world trading system is in dire 
need of change. For example, countries were admitted 
to  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  that  violate 
every  single  principle  on  which  the  organization  is 
based. While the United States and many other nations 
play by the rules, those countries use Government-run 
industrial planning and State-owned enterprises to rig 
the  system  in  their  favour.  They  engage  in  relentless 
product  dumping,  forced  technology  transfer  and  the 
theft of intellectual property.
The  United  States  lost  more  than  3  million 
manufacturing  jobs,  nearly  a  quarter  of  all  steel  jobs 
and  60,000  factories  after  China  joined  the  WTO. 
And  we  have  racked  up  $13  trillion  in  trade  deficits 
over the past two decades. But those days are over. We 
will  no  longer  tolerate  such  abuse.  We  will  not  allow 
our  workers  to  be  victimized,  our  companies  to  be 
cheated and our wealth to be plundered and transferred. 
America will never apologize for protecting its citizens. 
The United States has just announced tariffs on another 
$200 billion in Chinese-made goods — for a total, so 
far, of $250 billion. I have great respect and affection for 
my friend President Xi, but I have made it clear that our 
trade imbalance is just not acceptable. China’s market 
distortions and the way they deal cannot be tolerated. 
As my Administration has demonstrated, America will 
always act in our national interests.
I spoke before this body last year (see A/72/PV.3) 
and warned that the Human Rights Council had become 
a  grave  embarrassment  to  this  institution,  shielding 
egregious human rights abusers while bashing America 
and  its  many  friends.  Our  Ambassador  to  the  United 
Nations,  Nikki  Haley,  laid  out  a  clear  agenda  for 
reform,  but  despite  reported  and  repeated  warnings, 
no action at all was taken. The United States took the 
only responsible course. We withdrew from the Human 
Rights Council, and we will not return until real reform 
is enacted. For similar reasons, the United States will 
provide no support or recognition to the International 
Criminal Court (ICC). As far as America is concerned, 
the  ICC  has  no  jurisdiction,  no  legitimacy  and  no 
authority.  The  ICC  claims  near-universal  jurisdiction 
over  the  citizens  of  every  country,  violating  all 
principles of justice, fairness and due process. We will 
never surrender America’s sovereignty to an unelected, 
unaccountable global bureaucracy. America is governed 
by Americans. We reject the ideology of globalism and 
we  embrace  the  doctrine  of  patriotism.  Around  the 
world, responsible nations must defend against threats 
to sovereignty not just from global governance, but also 
from other new forms of coercion and domination.
In America, we believe strongly in energy security 
for  ourselves  and  for  our  allies.  We  have  become  the 
largest  energy  producer  anywhere  on  the  face  of  the 
Earth.  The  United  States  stands  ready  to  export  our 
abundant, affordable supply of oil, clean coal and natural 
gas. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries 
(OPEC) and OPEC nations, are, as usual, ripping off the 
rest of the world, and I do not like it. Nobody should 
like  it.  We  defend  many  of  those  nations  for  nothing, 
and then they take advantage of us by giving us high oil 
prices. Not good. We want them to stop raising prices. 
We want them to start lowering prices. And they must 
contribute substantially to military protection from now 
on. We are not going to put up with such horrible prices 
much longer. Reliance on a single foreign supplier can 
leave a nation vulnerable to extortion and intimidation. 
That is why we congratulate European States, such as 
Poland, for leading the construction of a Baltic pipeline 
so that nations are not dependent on Russia to meet their 
energy needs. Germany will become totally dependent 
on  Russian  energy  if  it  does  not  immediately  change 
its course.
Here, in the western hemisphere, we are committed 
to maintaining our independence from the encroachment 
of expansionist foreign powers. It has been the formal 
policy of our country since President Monroe to reject 
the  interference  of  foreign  nations  in  this  hemisphere 
and in our own affairs.
The  United  States  recently  strengthened  our  laws 
to better screen foreign investments in our country for 
national security threats, and we welcome cooperation 
with  countries  in  the  region  and  around  the  world 
that  wish  to  do  the  same.  You  need  to  do  it  for  your 
own protection.
The United States is also working with partners in 
Latin America to confront threats to sovereignty from 
uncontrolled migration. Tolerance of human smuggling 
and trafficking is not humane. It is horrible thing that 
is going on, at levels that nobody has ever seen before. 
It  is  very  cruel.  Illegal  immigration  funds  criminal 
networks, ruthless gangs and the flow of deadly drugs. 
Illegal  immigration  exploits  vulnerable  populations, 
hurts hard-working citizens and has produced a vicious 
18-29769
17/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
cycle of crime, violence and poverty. Only by upholding 
national  borders  and  destroying  criminal  gangs  can 
we  break  that  cycle  and  establish  a  real  foundation 
for prosperity.
We recognize the right of every nation in this Hall 
to  set  its  own  immigration  policy  in  accordance  with 
its  national  interests,  just  as  we  ask  other  countries 
to  respect  our  own  right  to  do  the  same  —  which 
we  are  doing.  That  is  one  reason  the  United  States 
will  not  participate  in  the  new  global  compact  for 
migration.  Migration  should  not  be  governed  by  an 
international  body  that  is  unaccountable  to  our  own 
citizens. Ultimately, the only long-term solution to the 
migration  crisis  is  to  help  people  build  more  hopeful 
futures in their home countries, to make their countries 
great again.
Currently, we are witnessing a human tragedy, to 
give  an  example,  in  Venezuela.  More  than  2  million
people have fled the anguish inflicted by the socialist 
Maduro regime and its Cuban sponsors. Not long ago, 
Venezuela  was  one  of  the  richest  countries  on  Earth. 
Today  socialism  has  bankrupted  the  oil-rich  nation 
and  driven  its  people  into  abject  poverty.  Almost 
everywhere socialism or communism has been tried, it 
has produced suffering, corruption and decay.
Socialism’s  thirst  for  power  leads  to  expansion, 
incursion  and  oppression.  All  nations  of  the  world 
should  resist  socialism  and  the  misery  that  it  brings 
to everyone. In that spirit, we ask the nations that are 
gathered  here  to  join  us  in  calling  for  the  restoration 
of democracy in Venezuela. Today we are announcing 
additional  sanctions  against  the  repressive  regime, 
targeting Maduro’s inner circle and close advisers.
We are grateful for all the work the United Nations 
does around the world to help people build better lives 
for  themselves  and  their  families.  The  United  States 
is  by  far  the  world’s  largest  giver  of  foreign  aid,  but 
few give anything to us. That is why we are taking a 
hard look at United States foreign assistance. That will 
be headed up by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. We 
will  examine  what  is  working,  what  is  not  working 
and whether the countries that receive our dollars and 
our protection also have our interests at heart. Moving 
forward, we are only going to give foreign aid to those 
that respect us and, frankly, are our friends. We expect 
other  countries  to  pay  their  fair  share  of  the  cost  of 
their defence.
The  United  States  is  committed  to  making  the 
United Nations more effective and accountable. I have 
said many times that the United Nations has unlimited 
potential. As part of our reform effort, I have told our 
negotiators  that  the  United  States  will  not  pay  more 
than  25 per  cent of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
budget. That will encourage other countries to step up, 
get  involved  and  share  the  very  large  burden.  We  are 
working  to  shift  more  of  our  funding  from  assessed 
to  voluntary  contributions,  so  that  we  can  target 
American  resources  to  the  programmes  with  the  best 
record of success. Only when each of us does its part 
and  contributes  its  share  can  we  realize  the  highest 
aspirations of the United Nations.
We must pursue peace without fear, hope without 
despair and security without apology. Looking around 
this  Hall,  where  so  much  history  has  transpired, we 
think  of  the  many  before  us  who  have  come  here  to 
address the challenges of their nations and times. Our 
thoughts turn to the same question that ran through all 
their speeches and resolutions, through every word and 
every hope. It is a question of what kind of world we 
will leave for our children and what kind of nations they 
will inherit. The dreams that fill this Hall today are as 
diverse  as  the  people  that  have  stood  at  this  rostrum, 
and as varied as the countries represented here in this 
body. It really is something. It really is great history.
There  is  India,  a  free  society  with  more  than 
1 billion people, successfully lifting countless millions 
out of poverty and into the middle class. There is Saudi 
Arabia, where King Salman and the Crown Prince are 
pursuing  bold  new  reforms.  There  is  Israel,  proudly 
celebrating  its  seventieth  anniversary  as  a  thriving 
democracy in the holy land. In Poland, a great people 
are  standing  up  for  their  independence,  security  and 
sovereignty.  Many  countries  are  pursuing  their  own 
unique visions, building their own hopeful futures and 
chasing their own wonderful dreams of destiny, legacy 
and a home. The whole world is richer and humanity is 
better because of this beautiful constellation of nations, 
each very special, each very unique and each shining 
brightly  in  its  part  of  the  world.  In  each  one,  we  see 
the awesome promise of a people bound together by a 
shared past and working towards a common future.
As for Americans, we know what kind of future we 
want for ourselves. We know what kind of nation America 
must always be. In America we believe in the majesty 
of freedom and the dignity of the individual. We believe 
in self-government and the rule of law. And we prize 
18/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
the culture that sustains our liberty — a culture built 
on strong families, deep faith and fierce independence. 
We celebrate our heroes, we treasure our traditions and, 
above all, we love our country.
Inside  everyone  in  this  great  Hall  today,  and 
everyone listening around the globe, there is the heart 
of a patriot that feels the same powerful love for your 
nation and the same intense loyalty to your homeland. 
The passion that burns in the hearts of patriots and the 
souls  of  nations  has  inspired  reform  and  revolution, 
sacrifice and selflessness, scientific breakthroughs and 
magnificent works of art. Our task is not to erase it, but 
to embrace it — to build with it, to draw on its ancient 
wisdom  and  to  find  within  it  the  will  to  make  our 
nations greater, our regions safer and the world better.
To unleash that incredible potential in our people, 
we must defend the foundations that make it all possible. 
Sovereign and independent nations are the only vehicles 
where freedom has ever survived, democracy has ever 
endured and peace has ever prospered. And so we must 
protect our sovereignty and our cherished independence 
above all. When we do, we will find new avenues for 
cooperation  unfolding  before  us.  We  will  find  a  new 
passion for peacemaking rising within us. We will find 
new purpose, new resolve and new spirit flourishing all 
around  us  and  making  this  a  more  beautiful  world  in 
which to live.
Together  let  us  choose  a  future  of  patriotism, 
prosperity  and  pride.  Let  us  choose  peace  and 
freedom  over  domination  and  defeat.  Let  us  come 
here to this place to stand up for our people and their 
nations  —  forever  strong,  forever  sovereign,  forever 
just  and  forever  thankful  for  the  grace,  goodness  and 
glory of God. God bless you and God bless the nations 
of the world.
The President: On behalf of the General Assembly, 
I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  United  States  of 
America for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Donald  Trump,  President  of 
the  United 
States of America, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.15  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.20 a.m.
Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, President 
of the Republic of Turkey
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Recep  Tayyip 
Erdoğan,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Turkey,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Erdoğan  (spoke  in  Turkish;  English 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  have  the 
honour  to  greet  you  personally,  Madam  President,  on 
behalf of my country and my people.
At the outset, I would like to thank His Excellency 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  for  his  successful  work  over  the 
past year as the President of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-second session. I would also like to congratulate 
Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés,  who  has  taken 
over  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  hope 
and pray that this year’s General Assembly session will 
avail us of an opportunity to bring the best to all people 
of the world.
We  are  holding 
this  meeting  on 
the  100th 
anniversary  of  the  end  of  the  First  World  War.  The 
League  of  Nations,  which  was  founded  after  the  war, 
was  immediately  replaced  by  the  United  Nations  in 
the aftermath of the Second World War. Undoubtedly, 
the  United  Nations,  over  its  73  years  of  history,  has 
carried  out  enormous  endeavours  and  achieved  great 
successes. However, we also need to admit the fact that 
over  time  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  meet 
the  expectations  of  humankind  for  peace  and  welfare 
has diminished.
In  particular,  the  Security  Council  has  taken  to 
serving  only  the  interests  of  its  five  permanent  seat-
holders, which have veto rights, while standing by idly 
in  the  face  of  oppression  in  other  parts  of  the  world. 
The  massacres  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Rwanda 
and Somalia, and recently in Myanmar and occurring 
in Palestine as we speak, have all taken place before the 
eyes of the Security Council. Those who remain silent 
in the face of the oppression of the Palestinians, those 
who  have  reduced  humanitarian  assistance  for  them, 
18-29769
19/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
are only increasing the courage of the oppressors. Even 
if the whole world turns its back, Turkey will continue 
to be on the side of the oppressed Palestinians and will 
protect the historical and legal status of our first qibla, 
which is Jerusalem.
Unfortunately,  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  every 
day  we  confront  scenes  of  ethnic  cleansing  and  mass 
slaughter that none of us would wish to see. Likewise, 
from  health  to  education,  from  food  to  culture,  there 
is a high level of dissatisfaction in terms of the sum of 
the work undertaken by this huge Organization. We do 
not wish to see such an important structure turn into an 
organization with a constant reputation for failure and 
complaints. Therefore, on every occasion, we underline 
that  there  needs  to  be  a  comprehensive  reform  in  the 
structure  and  functioning  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly of the Security Council.
We believe that when we say “the world is greater 
than five” we are becoming the voice of the common 
conscience of the entire human race. The world is not 
the  world  of  the  times  of  the  Second  World  War,  nor 
of  its  aftermath.  We  have  representatives  from  194 
countries under this roof. Why cannot 194 countries be 
represented at the Security Council? Why should they 
not, in a rotational manner, have their permanent seats 
in the Security Council? We have only five permanent 
seat-holders at the Security Council, and the remainder 
are just temporary with no power whatsoever.
Limiting  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  to  the 
budget will neither contribute to the settlement of real 
problems nor make anybody happy or content. There is 
a need to increase the efficiency of the Organization, 
which  I  deem  to  be  very  important  for  the  future  of 
the  world.  That  includes  in  the  fundamental  areas  of 
social equality, development and security. We need to 
undertake many reforms.
When  Turkey  looks  at  the  world  —  beginning 
with  our  own  geography  —  we  see  that  there  are 
many important tasks to be undertaken by the United 
Nations. In our understanding, justice is above all, and 
it will bring order, salvation and happiness to the entire 
world.  In  our  civilization  we  refer  to  a  phenomenon 
known  as  the  “circle  of  justice,”  which  is  based  on  a 
correct  establishment  and  management  of  relations 
between the society, the law, the State, the power of the 
State, the economy and justice. The links of that circle 
are  intertwined;  however,  those  links  are  shattered 
regardless of where you go in the world today. That is 
why  our  world  today  is  entrapped  by  political,  social 
and economic instability and is constantly suffering.
To  enable  a  peaceful  and  secure  future  for  all, 
we  have  a  duty  to  succeed  in  humankind’s  struggle, 
starting with the search for justice and ending with the 
establishment of justice. Today, when the assets of the 
wealthiest 62 people in the world amount to the assets 
of  half  of  world’s  population  of  3.6  billion  people,  it 
means  there  is  a  significant  problem  that  we  need  to 
do something about. Every night 821 million people go 
to bed hungry; at the same time more than 672 million 
have been diagnosed with obesity. There is a problem 
with  that.  There  are  258  million  people  across  the 
world  hitting  the  road  in  search  for  better  conditions 
to live and survive. And there are 68 million displaced 
people  around  the  world,  which  points  to  yet  another 
outstanding  problem  that  we  need  to  do  something 
about. There is a problem when the likelihood of early 
child mortality of a baby born in Africa is nine times 
greater than that of a baby born here.
The  famous  Islamic  philosopher  Rumi,  who 
began shining a beacon from the city of Konya, in the 
heartland  of  Anatolia,  in  order  to  enlighten  all  souls 
across the world, once said that justice means restoring 
things to their proper place — that is. giving someone 
what he or she needs or desires. Let us establish a global 
administration  system  that  will  serve  as  a  shield  to 
protect the oppressed, the victimized, lending a helping 
hand  to  the  hungry  and  the  unsheltered,  and  thereby 
bringing hope to future generations.
Everything said from this rostrum, all the analyses 
and proposals that we come up with, will make sense 
only if we can put them into action. Again, according 
to the philosopher Rumi, an oppressor is someone who 
does not fulfil their duties vis-à-vis humankind. If we 
want  to  make  the  United  Nations  a  source  of  justice 
instead of cruelty, we have to dedicate ourselves more 
fully to the tasks bestowed upon us.
Turkey is sustaining its efforts aimed at achieving a 
fairer world through its global humanitarian diplomacy. 
We are currently hosting 4 million refugees inside our 
borders,  3.5  million  of  whom  came  from  Syria.  On  a 
global  scale,  this  is  unprecedented.  Those  refugees 
have access to all forms of services that one could ever 
need.  So  far,  the  Republic  of  Turkey  has  spent  about 
$32  billion  for  the  care  of  refugees.  Furthermore,  in 
cities such as Jarablus, Al-Rai and Afrin in Syria, which 
we previously secured, we have provided humanitarian 
20/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
aid to millions of people in need just as has been done 
in the de-escalation zones that were recently declared 
in the city of Idlib.
The  number  of  Syrian  students  attending  school 
in  Turkey  is  well  above  600,000.  Refugees  in  our 
country have access to all health-care services free of 
charge, just like any other Turkish citizen. In addition, 
we  attend  to  all  the  needs  of  refugees  in  Turkish 
protection  centres.  However,  so  far,  we  have  received 
only  $600  million  from  international  organizations 
and  only  €1.7  billion  from  the  European  Union  (EU). 
Those  funds  are  not  going  directly  into  the  Turkish 
budget, but rather are being directly transferred to the 
non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  working  for 
the refugees. The European Union previously pledged 
€3  billion  to  be  allocated  to  Turkey,  but  that  is  now 
contingent  upon  the  undertaking  of  specific  projects. 
We  continue  providing  our  services 
to  refugees 
every  day  without  any  preconditions  or  interruptions 
whatsoever.  We  expect  more  generous  and  flexible 
support to be provided to Turkey, especially by the EU, 
because  we  have  prevented  a  large  refugee  influx  to 
spill  over  into  other  parts  of  the  world,  in  particular 
to  Europe,  thanks  to  the  opportunities  we  have  made 
available to refugees.
are  providing 
Furthermore,  we 
significant 
humanitarian development aid in all parts of the world, 
not just to refugees within or near our borders. As of 
this  year,  Turkey  ranks  sixth  in  the  world  in  terms 
of  total  development  aid  and  first  in  humanitarian 
assistance.  Turkey  ranks  among  the  top  donors  in 
terms  of  development  and  humanitarian  aid,  as  we 
are the seventeenth largest economy in the world. Our 
commitment  is  a  strong  expression  of  the  degree  of 
significance we attach to humanitarian aid and helping 
those in need.
As  noted  in  the  appeal  by  the  General  Assembly 
this year, our world needs global leadership and joint 
responsibility  more  than  ever  for  peaceful,  equitable 
and sustainable societies. Turkey has made substantial 
efforts  in  that  direction  within  the  United  Nations. 
The Mediation for Peace initiative, which we launched 
together  with  Finland  in  2010,  is  now  supported  by 
the  Group  of  Friends  of  Mediation,  which  consists  of 
56  Member  States.  We  have  also  taken  serious  steps 
forward  in  that  regard  within  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation, over which we currently preside.
The Alliance of Civilizations initiative, which we 
launched  with  Spain,  has  become  a  United  Nations 
initiative with the participation of 146 Member States. 
In  helping  Somalia,  which  is  struggling  with  hunger, 
get  back  on  its  feet,  we  are  currently  implementing 
a  development  programme  that  I  believe  will  be  a 
model for the rest of the world. And to help millions of 
innocent people in Arakan, which is miles away from 
our country, we have mobilized all our means and all our 
capabilities. We have exerted sincere efforts to resolve 
the Gulf crisis. In Iraq, we are encouraging all parties 
to make efforts to secure the future of the country. In 
terms  of  racism,  xenophobia  and  Islamophobia,  we 
strive  to  prevent  negativity  from  emerging  in  various 
parts of the world, especially in Europe.
We have also adopted an active stance in response 
to  the  developments  taking  place  in  Syria,  which  has 
now become a place where the majority of the countries 
in the world export the radical groups residing within 
their  borders.  By  means  of  both  our  support  to  the 
Geneva  and  Astana  processes  and  the  de-escalation 
zones that have been established, we continue to try to 
bring peace and stability to Syria, and we are trying to 
make Syria a peaceful country once again. By clearing 
the Jarablus and Al-Rai regions of the presence of the 
Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham and the Afrin region 
from the presence of the Kurdistan Workers Party, the 
Democratic  Union  Party  and  the  People’s  Protection 
Units — terrorist organizations all — we have turned 
an area of more than 4,000 square kilometres into a safe 
and peaceful place for millions of Syrians.
Quite recently, we signed an agreement with Russia, 
the Sochi Agreement, through which we have prevented 
the regime’s bloody assaults against the de-escalation 
zones  in  Idlib  province,  where  3.5  million  civilians 
live. It is our belief that, by preventing a repetition of 
the massacres previously carried out in Aleppo, Hama, 
Homs,  Dar’a  and  eastern  Ghouta,  Turkey  has  cleared 
the way for peace and a political solution in the country, 
especially in the Idlib. Our goal is to clear the Syrian 
territory  of  the  presence  of  terrorists,  all  the  way 
from Manbij to the Iraqi border. I hereby call upon all 
the  parties  to  support  a  just  and  sustainable  political 
solution in Syria through a constructive approach. We 
wish  to  see  a  principled  approach  taken  against  all 
terrorist organizations.
Those who equip terrorists with tens of thousands of 
trucks and thousands of cargo planes loaded with arms 
and ammunition for the sake of their tactical interests 
18-29769
21/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
will most definitely feel sorrow and regret in future for 
having done so. Supporting terrorist organizations and 
closing  borders  to  refugees,  all  the  while  putting  the 
entire burden on a few countries like Turkey, will not 
give the world a more secure or prosperous future. On 
the contrary, issues deflected in such a way will reach 
a  point  where  one  day  the  measures  at  hand  will  fall 
short of overcoming them. So let us make more sincere 
and  constructive  efforts  aimed  at  finding  solutions 
in  regions  currently  in  conflict,  such  as  Syria,  Iraq, 
Yemen, Libya, Afghanistan and Ukraine, as well as in 
regions potentially in conflict, such as the Balkans, the 
Caucusus, North Africa, Central Africa, the Gulf and 
the eastern Mediterranean. Let us not forget that, if we 
cannot create a minimum level of peace and prosperity 
for all in every part of the world, no one can live safely 
within their own borders.
Not  all  terrorist  organizations  obtain  their  power 
solely from their armed actions. Some of them use more 
complex,  more  convert  and  more  deceptive  methods. 
The Fethullah terrorist organization attempted a coup 
on  the  night  of  15  July  2016,  and,  in  the  end,  251 
Turkish  civilians  were  martyred  and  more  than  2,193 
civilians  were  wounded.  That  is  the  sort  of  terrorist 
organization I was referring to just now. The Fethullah 
terrorist  organization  is  hiding  behind  such  glossy 
concepts  as  education,  welfare  and  dialogue,  and  it 
continues  its  operations  as  NGOs  or  businesses.  The 
leader of this terrorist organization is currently living 
in very comfortable fashion in Pennsylvania, on more 
than 400 acres of land.
its 
true  face  when 
For the last four decades, this terrorist organization 
has  been  growing  and  developing  in  Turkey  through 
deception,  and  we  saw 
the 
terrorists  felt  that  they  had  become  powerful  enough 
to  undertake  coups  d’état.  They  initiated  consecutive 
attempts, first with their operatives who had infiltrated 
the  police  and  the  judiciary  in  Turkey,  and  then  with 
their  agents  in  the  armed  forces.  With  the  economic 
and  bureaucratic  power  they  attained  over  time,  that 
terrorist organization has attempted to take control of 
politics,  society  and  the  State  itself.  However,  thanks 
to  the  support  of  our  people  and  to  our  resolute  fight 
against  the  Fethullah  terrorist  organization  over  the 
past  five  years,  we  have  eliminated  the  majority  of 
members  of  that  organization  in  our  country.  We  can 
now see that this terrorist organization is carrying out 
similar  activities  across  the  globe.  We  are  warning 
many  countries  that  are  friends  of  Turkey  around  the 
world  and  demanding  the  extradition  of  the  terrorists 
hiding within their borders, but some of those countries 
are  shying  away  from  extraditing  them.  Ultimately, 
however, the price for such a failure will be quite hefty.
The  Fethullah  terrorist  organization  is  generating 
between $700 million and $800 million in the United 
States through their charter schools located in different 
states  throughout  the  country.  That  figure  does  not 
include the income generated by commercial institutions 
involved in all sorts of money laundering activities and 
other structures with secret agendas that appear to be 
NGOs. I am hurt, and that is why I am frankly warning 
countries that are friends of Turkey around the world. 
I  invite  them  to  mobilize  their  efforts  to  combat  the 
presence of the Fethullah terrorist organization in their 
countries.  We  must  show  the  same  solidarity  that  we 
have shown with regard to armed terrorist organizations 
and bloodthirsty regimes with regard to that insidious 
gang  as  well.  We  are  ready  to  share  our  experiences 
and the information we have gathered on that issue with 
countries  that  are  friends  of  Turkey  and  any  country 
that is willing to cooperate with us more closely.
Trade  wars  have  harmed  humankind  in  every 
age.  We  are  on  the  brink  of  another  such  frightening 
war.  None  of  us  can  remain  silent  in  the  face  of 
arbitrary  cancellations  of  commercial  agreements, 
the  spreading  prevalence  of  protectionism  and  the 
use  of  economic  sanctions  as  weapons.  The  negative 
effects  of  those  twisted  developments  will  eventually 
affect  all  countries.  We  must  all  work  together  to 
prevent damage to the world trade regime as a result of 
unilateral decisions in the form of sanctions. At a time 
when we need to work towards the achievement of the 
2030 Sustainable Development Goals, no one wants the 
world to experience a new economic rupture.
It  is  easy  to  create  chaos,  but  it  is  difficult  to 
restore  order.  Today,  unfortunately,  some  countries 
are  persistently  trying  to  create  chaos.  There  is  no 
bigger  danger  than  a  world  order  that  has  lost  mercy, 
conscience,  truth  and  hope.  That  is  the  danger  we 
are  facing  now.  Turkey  has  always  been  in  favour  of 
both free trade and the free movement of persons and 
goods.  Every  regression  in  those  areas  has  negative 
repercussions that will be hard to overcome for future 
generations.  Furthermore,  the  fact  that  this  approach 
is  brought  up  with  a  rhetoric  of  threat,  force  and  by 
entirely  disregarding  the  history  of  bilateral  relations 
disappoints us even more. We are in favour of solving 
our  problems  through  constructive  dialogue  on  equal 
22/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
terms. We expect responsible action by all our friends 
around the world.
Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda
We  have  effective,  harmonious  and  constructive 
cooperation  with  our  counterparts  on  international 
platforms,  such  as  the  World  Trade  Organization,  the 
Group of 20, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation 
and  the  European  Union  in  the  form  of  the  Customs 
Union.  Turkey  has  always  expressed  its  support  for 
a  win-win  approach  to  those  we  do  business  with 
around  the  world.  The  sincerity  of  our  approach  is 
obvious, which is why we deem the allegations against 
and  pressure  on  our  country  unfair.  We  believe  that, 
together  with  the  countries  and  institutions  sharing 
our  perspective,  we  can  surmount  the  political  and 
economic chaos that the world is being drawn into. We 
hope to receive the international community’s support 
in that respect.
Before concluding my address, I would like to share 
with the Assembly two additional remarks.
First,  we  believe  that  there  is  a  need  for  an 
institution within the United Nations for youth, as young 
people ensure the sustainability of our future. Turkey 
proposes the establishment of a United Nations youth 
organization as soon as possible, and suggests Istanbul, 
a  city  that  symbolizes  the  history  of  the  world,  as  its 
headquarters. We can allocate a youth centre, which is 
currently being built in Istanbul, to that organization.
Secondly,  in  2005,  we  hosted  the  world  ageing 
summit in Turkey for the first time, and then 2019 was 
designated the International Year of Older Persons. In 
that  respect,  the  United  Nations  international  agency 
for the elderly is being established in Istanbul, and the 
third  World  Assembly  on  Ageing  will  take  place  in 
Istanbul. I cordially invite representatives to attend that 
summit, which will be held on 10 December.
Once  again,  I  wish  every  success  to  the  General 
Assembly  during  its  seventy-third  session.  On  behalf 
of myself and my country, I wholeheartedly salute with 
respect all the countries and peoples represented in this 
common parliament of humankind. May they prevail in 
peace and in health.
The President (spoke in Spanish): On behalf of the 
General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the 
Republic of Turkey for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Recep  Tayyip  Erdoğan,  President  of  the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Rwanda.
into 
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Rwanda,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, 
President of the Republic of Rwanda, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President Kagame: As we gather in this Hall and 
work together to make the United Nations more relevant 
to all people, the positive developments in Africa over 
the past year merit this body’s attention. Let me start 
with a paradox.
In  no  other  region  is  the  sense  of  transnational 
solidarity  and  unity  as  deeply  felt  as  in  Africa.  The 
idea  that  our  respective  national  identities  stand  in 
contradiction  to  pan-Africanism  is  unheard  of  in  our 
context. And yet, despite that unique civic endowment, 
Africa  has  too  often  stood  out  for  division  and 
dysfunction  in  practice.  That  left  Africa  unable  to 
articulate and advance its common interests. We ceded 
responsibility for our future to others not by force but 
by default.
Mr.  Bahr  Aluloom  (Iraq),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
But  times  are  changing  rapidly,  and  therefore  the 
management  of  Africa’s  global  position  must  also 
change. The trend on our continent is towards closer and 
more productive cooperation, both through the African 
Union  and  our  regional  economic  communities.  The 
evident decline of old certainties and authorities is not 
bringing turbulence to Africa, as would have been the 
case in a previous era. On the contrary, the effect has 
been to focus Africa’s attention on the urgent need to 
get our house in order and fundamentally change how 
we do business. That is why the African Union initiated 
a  major  financial  and  institutional  reform  more  than 
three years ago. We are already seeing practical results.
New financial discipline has produced an African 
Union budget that is 12 per cent lower than last year’s. 
The share of funding supplied by member States has also 
18-29769
23/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
increased substantially. Contributions to the fund that 
helps pay for African Union peace support operations 
are at the highest level since its establishment, in 1993. 
And  earlier  this  year,  the  historic  agreement  on  the 
African Continental Free Trade Area was signed, which 
was the culmination of decades of effort. Once that is in 
force, Africa’s place in the global economic and trade 
architecture will be redefined.
Economies  of 
scale  and  higher 
levels  of 
intra-African  trade  will  help  our  continent  attain  the 
Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. We will also 
see new possibilities for public-private partnership with 
Africa’s growing private sector. This year also provided 
examples of regional security affairs and key political 
transitions  being  handled  in  a  peaceful  and  forward-
looking  manner.  More  effective  consultation  and 
leadership is reducing the need for external mediation, 
and that is how it should be.
The  momentous  developments  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa  —  in  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Djibouti  and  even 
Somalia — are the most remarkable. The region’s leaders 
deserve  our  full  support  as  they  set  aside  decades  of 
mistrust and work towards a comprehensive settlement. 
It is important for the Security Council to collaborate 
closely  with  the  African  Union  to  accompany  that 
process of normalization.
In Zimbabwe as well, the next stages on the country’s 
path  of  progress  warrant  steady  encouragement  from 
the international community. However, there are other 
situations in Africa — notably in the Central African 
Republic, Libya, the Sahel and South Sudan — where 
serious  problems  remain  unresolved,  despite  so  much 
potential.  Africa  and  the  world  should  come  together 
and do what needs to be done to harmonize overlapping 
initiatives and ensure that agreements are respected.
Peace and security are the foundation of economic 
and social well-being. Yesterday we happily marked the 
centenary  of  Nelson  Mandela’s  birth  with  the  Nelson 
Mandela Peace Summit. In that spirit, we are already 
set  to  embark  upon  a  new  chapter,  with  cooperation 
between  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations 
on 
for  African-Union-mandated 
peace-support  operations.  The  draft  resolution  to  be 
introduced by Africa’s three Security Council members 
has  the  full  backing  of  the  African  Union.  That  step 
will also align with the Secretary-General’s new Action 
for Peacekeeping initiative. That once again reflects the 
funding 
stable 
fact that the dividend of a more focused and functional 
Africa benefits everyone.
In that wider context of even stronger partnership 
between our institutions, it is important for the African 
Union’s  diplomatic  representation  here  at  the  United 
Nations to be accorded the status and weight enjoyed by 
other regional bodies. The theme for this year’s general 
debate  is  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people”. That requires a commitment to achieving real 
multilateralism  where  it  has  too  often  been  lacking. 
The current two-track system of global governance is 
unsustainable.  A  few  get  to  be  the  ones  to  define  the 
norms by which others shall be judged. But standards 
that do not apply to everyone equally are not universal. 
Addressing  that  imbalance  in  the  very  foundation 
of  our  system  is  what  will  give  shape  to  a  revival  of 
multilateral  cooperation  and  renew  the  legitimacy  of 
the international institutions that are so crucial to our 
planet’s future.
In the years ahead, we look forward to deepening 
the  important  partnership  between  Africa  and  the 
United  Nations  and  to  advancing  our  shared  agenda 
of  peace  and  security,  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment, 
and 
shared prosperity.
environmental 
protection 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of  the  Republic  of  Rwanda  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made.
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Rwanda,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Enrique Peña Nieto, President of 
the United Mexican States
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the United Mexican States.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Enrique Peña 
Nieto, President of the United Mexican States, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
24/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
President Peña Nieto: I congratulate Ambassador 
María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  as 
President of the General Assembly. I welcome the fact 
that,  for  the  first  time  in  history,  a  Latin  American 
woman is presiding over the work of the Assembly.
Since the founding of the Organization, Mexico has 
demonstrated  its  willingness  to  help  make  the  ideals 
that gave rise to its creation into a reality. As Mexicans, 
we  are  aware  of  our  responsibilities  as  a  nation  that 
is  part  of  a  community  of  sovereign  and  independent 
States.  Successive  generations  have  managed  to  build 
Mexico into a democratic and pluralistic State, a free 
and participatory society and a dynamic economy open 
to the world. At the same time, we have contributed to 
deliberations and action focused on the great challenges 
facing  the  international  community  in  the  quest  for 
peace  and  security,  the  promotion  of  sustainable 
development  and  respect  for  human  rights.  Those  are 
universal values that have inspired and guided Mexico’s 
efforts to overcome the challenges facing our society.
With the commitment and cooperation of the three 
branches of our Government, various political parties, 
civil-society  organizations  and  representatives  of  the 
various  economic  sectors,  Mexico  is  moving  forward 
towards  improved  levels  of  wealth  and  development. 
We  have  striven  to  strengthen  our  institutions  and 
protect  our  society  from  the  threat  of  crime  and 
violence in the quest for a Mexico living in peace. We 
have  worked  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  the 
most vulnerable groups by reducing poverty levels and 
building an inclusive Mexico. We have transformed the 
Mexican educational system so that it can provide the 
children and young people of the country with quality 
education  that  will  prepare  them  for  a  successful  and 
happy life. We have removed barriers that, for decades, 
impeded  full  economic  development,  thereby  fuelling 
a prosperous Mexico. We have taken an active role in 
finding solutions to international challenges, which is 
fitting for one of the 10 most populous countries, one of 
the 15 largest economies in the world, and a responsible 
global actor.
My  country  has  made  a  sense  of  responsibility 
the watchword of its foreign policy. Mexico has acted 
responsibly  in  promoting  sustainable  development, 
which  benefits  everyone.  For  that  reason,  we  have 
established an institutional architecture, in cooperation 
with the federal executive power, to promote the 2030 
Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development.  Together  with 
other  countries  represented  in  this  Hall,  we  have 
promoted the annual assessment of the impact of rapid 
technological change, especially artificial intelligence, 
on the achievement of the 2030 Agenda.
The  implementation  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate  Change  is  a  priority  for  my  country.  As  an 
international  community,  we  have  a  moral  obligation 
to  put  its  precepts  into  practice  and  meet  even  more 
ambitious  mitigation,  adaptation  and  financing  goals. 
Mexico has acted responsibly in seeking for solutions 
to  the  challenges  posed  by  migration.  I  welcome  the 
progress  that  we  have  made  in  achieving  the  global 
compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. Based 
on  the  new  development  paradigm,  the  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Mexico  and  Switzerland  have 
worked over the past two years with States, civil-society 
organizations, international organizations and academia 
to establish the following guiding principles of the pact: 
respect for the human rights of all migrants regardless 
of  their  immigration  status,  shared  responsibility  and 
unrestricted  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States, 
among others. The upcoming official adoption of that 
instrument in Marrakech in December will allow us to 
rely  on  a  foundational  document  for  the  international 
governance of migration.
Mexico  has  acted 
in  promoting 
international  peace  and  security.  Following  a  hiatus 
of  more  than  two  decades,  Mexico  has  resumed  its 
participation  in  peacekeeping  operations.  In  recent 
years,  we  have  contributed  to  operations  deployed  in 
Africa,  the  Middle  East  and  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. Mexico also has made its mark in its struggle 
for the total elimination of weapons of mass destruction, 
particularly  nuclear  disarmament.  Accordingly,  we 
initiated and supported the process concluded in 2017 
with  the  negotiation  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition 
of Nuclear Weapons, which Mexico ratified in January. 
We urge all Member States that have not yet done so to 
sign and ratify the Treaty without delay.
responsibly 
Weapons of mass destruction are not the only threat 
to  society.  The  illicit  trade  in  weapons  is  one  of  the 
greatest  challenges  to  national  security  that  Mexico, 
like  many  other  countries,  has  had  to  face.  I  say  this 
in  no  uncertain  terms  —  given  its  serious  nature, 
trafficking in illicit weapons is a scourge that we must 
urgently  address.  One  important  step  to  advance  that 
struggle was the negotiation and adoption of the Arms 
Trade Treaty. The first Conference of States Parties to 
the Treaty was held in Mexico in 2014. We must now 
work on its implementation. The outcome of the 2016 
18-29769
25/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
special session of the General Assembly on the world 
drug  problem  was  a  watershed  in  the  international 
drug-control system. Its implementation will allow us 
to move from mere prohibition to effective regulation 
that  combines  prevention,  public  health  and  human 
rights approaches.
in 
to  face  major  challenges 
Mexico  has  acted  responsibly  in  the  promotion 
of  human  rights.  We  acknowledge  that  our  country 
continues 
terms  of 
human  rights,  and  we  have  therefore  implemented 
specific  public  policies  to  address  them.  Mexico  has 
maintained  its  openness  to  international  scrutiny,  as 
we  know  that  it  serves  as  a  useful  tool  to  strengthen 
our  national  legal  frameworks  and  promote  human 
rights in the country. In its efforts to promote human 
rights,  the  international  community  must  continue  to 
promote respect for fundamental democratic principles 
throughout  the  world.  The  usurpation  of  powers,  the 
systematic  violation  of  political  rights,  the  rupture 
of  the  democratic  order  and  the  humanitarian  crisis 
prevailing in some areas of the American continent are 
issues  that  deeply  concern  us.  Mexico  will  pursue  its 
best diplomatic efforts to ensure that democracy, peace 
and respect for human rights are restored in all corners 
of the continent. We will always seek peaceful solutions 
agreed by the citizens of those countries, in full respect 
for the principle of non-intervention.
As  it  has  argued  consistently  in  the  past,  Mexico 
today  reiterates  its  call  for  an  end  to  the  commercial 
and  financial  blockade  of  Cuba.  Mexico  believes  that 
solutions to problems must be found through dialogue 
and  negotiations.  I  am  convinced  that  the  end  of  the 
blockade would benefit the entire region.
In  the  international  arena  today,  we  have  seen 
trends that seemed to have been overcome and that in 
the  past  were  shown  to  run  contrary  to  the  interests 
of  development,  such  as  advocacy  for  exclusionary 
nationalisms, the return of protectionist trade practices 
and the questioning and erosion of multilateralism. Such 
policies promote exclusion — the political exclusion of 
minorities,  the  social  exclusion  of  vulnerable  groups, 
the economic exclusion of those less fortunate and the 
cultural exclusion of those who live or think differently.
Faced with such worrying trends, I reaffirm before 
this universal forum the importance of multilateralism 
and  international  cooperation  for  Mexico.  Experience 
shows  that  multilateralism  is  the  best  way  to  defend 
the sovereignty and dignity of every State, while at the 
same time contributing to the security and well-being 
of  the  community  of  nations.  For  that  reason,  all  the 
Members of the Organization must confirm their trust 
in and commit themselves to strengthening it.
terms 
longer 
Specifically,  Mexico  calls  on  Member  States, 
first,  to  achieve  a  consensus  for  the  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  that  would  strengthen 
multilateralism,  not  create  new  permanent  members 
and  establish 
for  non-permanent 
members;  secondly,  to  ensure  that  the  2030  Agenda 
for Sustainable Development, which constitutes a true 
international social charter for the twenty-first century, 
becomes an effective global guide to ensure that no one 
is left behind; thirdly, to strengthen the human rights 
regime throughout the world — we are confident that 
the  appointment  of  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  as  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  will 
strengthen  that  important  pillar  of  the  Organization; 
and,  fourthly,  to  comply  fully  with  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions to safeguard international 
peace and security. We are encouraged by the progress 
in the dialogue between the Republic of Korea and the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  At  the  same 
time,  we  reiterate  the  call  for  compliance  with  the 
relevant Security Council resolutions on the complete 
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
My  country  is  currently  undergoing  a  period 
of  democratic 
transition  between  Governments. 
Marked  by  unconditional  respect  for  the  political  and 
economic freedoms of Mexico’s citizens, the change in 
Administrations  is  taking  place  in  an  environment  of 
certainty,  order,  economic  stability  and  social  peace. 
As  I  am  just  a  few  weeks  from  completing  my  term 
as President of Mexico, this will be my last statement 
in  the  largest  forum  of  the  international  community. 
During the past six years, I have found that dialogue, 
cooperation and an international system based on rules 
are our best option to achieve just, shared and lasting 
solutions to global challenges.
Building  a  world  of  peace, 
friendship  and 
international cooperation has never been an easy task. 
There  are  those  who  opt  for  exclusion  and  discord. 
There are also those who choose to be mere observers 
instead  of  true  agents  of  change.  Those  alternatives 
are  contrary  to  the  spirit  of  harmony  and  universal 
fraternity that inspires the members of the Assembly. 
The  Organization  is  the  best  indication  that  it  is  well 
worth  fighting  for  a  more  peaceful,  secure,  inclusive, 
egalitarian,  developed  and  sustainable  world.  The 
26/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
challenges facing the international community compel 
us  to  remain  faithful  to  the  ideals  that  inspired  the 
founding of the Organization and to continue building 
on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations. Let us all fulfil responsibly the commitments 
that  our  States  have  assumed  individually  for  the 
benefit  of  every  nation  and,  at  the  same  time,  of  the 
international community as a whole.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the United Mexican States for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Enrique  Peña  Nieto,  President  of  the  United 
Mexican  States,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Emmanuel Macron, President of 
the French Republic
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the French Republic.
Mr.  Emmanuel  Macron,  President  of 
the 
French  Republic,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in French): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emmanuel 
Macron, President of the French Republic, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Macron (spoke in French): All of us here 
are  heirs  to  the  great  hope  to  save  future  generations 
from  the  scourge  of  war,  to  build  an  international 
order based on law and respect for one’s word, and to 
lead  humankind  towards  economic,  social  and  moral 
progress in increasingly secure freedom. We have seen 
results.  The  enjoyment  of  human  rights  has  spread, 
trade  and  prosperity  have  grown,  and  poverty  has 
declined.  That  has  been  our  achievement  of  the  past 
several decades.
We must, however, look honestly at the moment in 
which we are living. We are experiencing today a deep 
crisis  in  the  liberal  Westphalian  international  order, 
which  we  have  known.  First,  that  is  because,  in  part, 
it has failed to regulate itself, and to date no solution 
commensurate with the task of meeting its economic, 
financial, environmental and climatic failures has been 
found. Secondly, it is because our collective capacity to 
respond to crises too often continues to be hindered by 
divisions within the Security Council. Our Organization 
is too often reduced to deploring the violations of rights 
that  it  has  pledged  to  guarantee.  Seventy  years  after 
the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights  by  the  General  Assembly  in  Paris,  a  cultural, 
historical  and  religious  relativism  is  now  challenging 
the foundations of their universality.
Born of hope, the United Nations can become, like 
the  League  of  Nations  that  preceded  it,  the  symbol 
of  powerlessness.  We  need  not  look  far  to  see  who  is 
responsible for that crime. They are in this Assembly 
Hall.  They  are  speaking  today.  We,  the  leaders,  are 
responsible.  On  that  basis,  I  see  three  main  paths  for 
us to follow.
The first path is to think that this is just a passing 
moment,  a  historical  parenthesis  before  we  return  to 
life as normal. I do not believe that to be the case. I do 
not believe it because we are going through a crisis of 
effectiveness and principles in our contemporary world 
order,  which  will  not  be  able  to  restore  its  previous 
landmarks and modes of functioning. This moment in 
time  is  not  a  parenthesis;  it  is  a  manifestation  of  our 
own failures of the past.
The  second  path  would  be  that  of  the  law  of  the 
strongest. Everyone is tempted to follow their own law. 
That path — the path of unilateralism — leads directly 
to  isolation  and  conflict,  to  widespread  clashes  with 
everyone pitted against each other, to the detriment of 
all, even ultimately those who believe themselves to be 
the  strongest.  The  responsibility  for  peace  cannot  be 
delegated; it cannot be refused; it cannot be pre-empted. 
It must be exercised collectively.
The law of the strongest does not protect any people 
from  any  threat,  be  it  chemical  or  nuclear.  What  will 
truly resolve the situation in Iran and what has already 
begun to stabilize it? Was it the law of the strongest, the 
pressure of one individual? No. We know that Iran was 
on the path to military nuclear power, but what stopped 
it was the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action agreed 
in  Vienna  in  2015.  Today,  as  I  said  a  year  ago  (see 
A/72/PV.4), we must not exacerbate regional tensions, 
but rather put forth a broader agenda that addresses all 
the nuclear, ballistic and regional concerns caused by 
Iranian policies. We must do so through dialogue and 
multilateralism,  without  naivety  or  complacency,  but 
also without posturing, which would be pointless.
18-29769
27/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
trade 
imbalances  and 
The  problem  of 
their 
consequences  for  our  societies  will  be  solved  by 
common  rules  adapted  to  today’s  reality  that  make  it 
possible to ensure fair competition on an equal footing, 
and under no circumstances will a bilateral approach to 
all our trade disputes or new protectionism do so.
to 
legitimate  right 
What  will  resolve  the  crisis  between  Israel  and 
Palestine  is  definitely  not  unilateral  initiatives,  or 
ignoring  Palestinians’ 
lasting 
peace,  or  underestimating  Israelis’  legitimate  right  to 
their  security.  There  is  no  credible  alternative  to  two 
States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security,  with 
Jerusalem as their capital. Israel knows that France is 
unwavering  in  its  friendship,  and  it  is  in  the  name  of 
that friendship that I call for a quick end to the policy 
of faits accomplis that threaten the very possibility of 
reaching  a  peace  agreement.  Continuing  along  that 
path would be a mistake. On that issue, I am ready, and 
we must all stand ready, to move beyond dogmas and 
historical positions in order to take new initiatives, on 
the  condition  that  it  leads  to  positive  changes  on  the 
ground.  There  too,  the  law  of  the  strongest  will  only 
exacerbate  frustration  and  violence.  As  the  Assembly 
has  seen,  in  the  face  of  contemporary  imbalances,  I 
do not believe in the law of the strongest, even if it is 
masked  in  a  form  of  legitimacy  where  it  has  actually 
lost all claims to legality.
I believe that there is a third possible path ahead of 
us, probably the most difficult and the most demanding, 
which requires us to forge a new model and to find a 
new  global  balance  together.  After  the  Second  World 
War, a balance was built bloc by bloc over the course 
of decades. Then there was the emergence of a model 
based on hyperpower. For several years now, we have 
witnessed a new global instability characterized by the 
return of multiple centres of power.
The new balance that we must create must be based 
on new forms of regional and international cooperation 
and  will,  in  my  opinion,  be  structured  around  three 
principles. The first is respect for sovereignty, which is 
at the very heart of the Charter of the United Nations. 
The  second  is  the  strengthening  of  our  regional 
cooperation. The third is the provision of more robust 
international  guarantees  or  safeguards.  It  is  through 
that method, and on the basis of those three principles, 
that we must manage contemporary crisis situations.
In Syria, we are pursuing the fight against Islamist 
terrorism. The military engagements of some countries 
have  allowed  the  regime  to  recover  at  the  expense  of 
crimes  for  which  those  responsible  will  one  day  have 
to  account.  The  Syrian  people  have,  tragically,  paid 
the  price,  and  there  will  be  no  winners  in  a  Syria  in 
ruins.  What  is  needed  now  is  to  win  peace  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  We  cannot  decide  for 
the  Syrian  people,  but  we  must  rather  build  the  ways 
and means of the method that I have just defined and 
thereby  build  a  solution  supported  not  only  by  the 
Astana  guarantors,  but  also  by  other  States  of  the 
region  and  the  international  community  through  the 
Small  Group  on  Syria,  under  the  coordination  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General, in order to create the means both to 
resolve the humanitarian crisis and to build an inclusive, 
lasting political solution through constitutional reform 
and the holding of free elections. That is what it means 
to  truly  respect  Syrian  sovereignty.  It  is  neither  a 
substitute for the Syrian people in deciding who should 
be their leader nor an agreement to cover all crimes by 
accepting that this leader will remain until the end of 
time, considering that all principles and, ultimately, all 
law have been cast aside.
In  Libya,  too,  it  is  that  new  method  that  should 
enable  us  to  achieve  a  lasting  solution.  The  current 
status  quo  allows  militias  and  traffickers  to  gain 
ground,  which  destabilizes  the  entire  region.  We  will 
not give the Libyans a way out of the crisis if we remain 
divided and if Libya becomes a stage, as it still is too 
often,  for  confrontations  among  foreign  influences. 
In  Paris,  the  Libyans  recently  pledged  to  hold  early 
elections, which will make it possible to reunify State 
institutions.  Those  commitments  must  be  fulfilled 
under the auspices of the United Nations and in close 
cooperation  with  the  African  Union.  Yesterday,  an 
important  step  was  taken  that  I  wish  to  commend 
here. It is in the interests of Libyans, their neighbours, 
Europeans and the international community, who must 
be united around those objectives to move forward in 
that way.
We are all strong together in the face of terrorism 
when  States  are  able  to  count  on  their  own  forces  to 
ensure their security and when such security is based 
on regional and international solutions, in accordance 
with the principle I have justset out. That is the decision 
taken by the States of the Sahel, acting together in the 
Joint Force of the Group of Five for the Sahel. That was 
also the essence of the process launched by the African 
Union to better assume its responsibilities by deploying 
28/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
African  peacekeeping  operations.  That  is  the  essence 
of the initiatives undertaken in the Lake Chad region, 
together  with  Nigeria,  Chad  and  Cameroon,  with  the 
support  of  the  African  Union.  That  is  why  we  must 
support  the  African  Union’s  initiative  and  push  for 
better coordination between the African Union and the 
United Nations. I hope that, by the end of the year, a 
resolution can be adopted to that effect.
We are strong in the face of terrorism when we take 
joint responsibility to fight all its forms of financing, 
and when, as we do in the Alliance for the Sahel, we act 
together  for  development,  agriculture  and  education, 
and against the root causes of despair that have allowed 
terrorists  to  win  hearts  and  minds.  Some  $7.5  billion 
has  already  been  committed  to  500  projects  defined 
jointly with all the States concerned and the partners of 
the Alliance for the Sahel. We must consolidate those 
initial results.
As is evident from each of these crises, the answer 
has not been to leave States alone, to act for them or to 
proclaim from here the law or solution to be applied, but 
to know how to conscientiously articulate the principles 
of the sovereignty of peoples, regional cooperation and 
the  real  commitment  of  the  international  community. 
Those  three  principles  form  the  basis  for  modern 
solutions.  Only  collective  action  can  preserve  the 
sovereignty and equality of the peoples that have given 
us  a  mandate.  We  also  need  collective  action  in  the 
face of the demographic, climate and digital challenges 
before us, which none of us can face alone.
Confronted  with  the  great  challenges  posed  by 
migration,  I  do  not  believe  in  talk  of  unconditional 
openness,  which  only  sparks  concern  and  stokes 
intolerance. Nor do I believe in the misleading speeches 
of those who claim, for example, in Europe as elsewhere, 
that they will be safer behind the protection of a closed 
border.  That  is  not  true.  The  only  effective  way  to 
manage the migratory flows affecting all our continents 
in an organized and controlled manner is to create the 
conditions for elective rather than forced international 
mobility,  to  work  together  —  countries  of  origin, 
transit  and  destination  —  to  address  the  root  causes 
of  migration,  especially  for  its  victims,  to  dismantle 
trafficking networks that are the worst scourge of this 
phenomenon, and to protect our borders in a respectful 
manner  while  ensuring  compliance  with  international 
law and, in particular, the unconditional protection of 
those who are entitled to asylum. That is what we have 
decided to do together through the United Nations pact 
that is to be adopted in Marrakech in December, which 
I support.
With  regard  to  climate  change,  too,  there  are  no 
free rides or easy solutions either. Even those who have 
challenged  that  reality  suffer  its  consequences  like 
everyone else. Extreme weather events are now a daily 
occurrence. And by weakening collective action, some 
only expose themselves further.
As  for  the  great  digital  transformation,  here  too 
our duty is to stand together to build modern rules that 
will allow us to reconcile the development of artificial 
intelligence with our ethical rules in order to support 
the digital transformation of our societies.
I  firmly  believe  in  the  sovereignty  of  peoples, 
which today is strong and demanded by all our peoples 
in  the  international  arena.  It  also  enjoys  enhanced 
cooperation  in  many  forms  and  a  renewed  legitimacy 
of  international  commitment.  The  great  fight  of  our 
elders was achieving peace, and this remains one of our 
responsibilities. We will win that fight in the twenty-
first century only by restoring a robust multilateralism 
that  is  truly  capable  not  only  of  resolving  conflicts 
pragmatically but, also and more broadly, of addressing 
their causes.
To  tell  the  truth,  I  do  not  believe  in  one  great 
globalized people. That is an illusion. It does not exist. 
But I do believe in universal values, and on that point 
we  must  not  compromise.  It  is  not  the  same  thing.  I 
believe  in  the  non-negotiable  defence  of  our  values: 
human  rights,  the  dignity  of  individuals  and  gender 
equality. I believe in our ability to strike a balance that 
respects peoples and cultures by refusing to negotiate 
those universal values. That is the reality, and I will in 
no way leave the principle of the sovereignty of peoples 
in the hands of nationalists or those who today, before 
the international community, advocate withdrawal and 
wish to exploit the sovereignty of peoples to challenge 
the  universality  and  strength  of  our  values,  thanks  to 
which we are all gathered here together in this Hall.
All  of  us  here,  even  those  who  criticize  it,  have 
benefited  from  the  structuring  of  the  international 
order  that  has  accompanied  globalization.  We  have 
enjoyed  a  period  of  humanism  and  have  all  played  a 
role  in  making  it  happen.  Today,  we  must  tackle  the 
root causes of our imbalances. Together, we must face 
the weaknesses of our international order and, beyond 
the  crises  I  have  just  mentioned,  consider  the  deep 
inequalities that have taken root. In my view, that is the 
18-29769
29/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
heart of our problem today. What awakens nationalism? 
What gives rise to doubt in our Assembly? What gives 
rise crises everywhere? It is those deep inequalities that 
we have failed to address.
Ten  years  ago,  when  the  international  financial 
crisis  hit,  we  took  emergency  action,  but  we  did  not 
solve  the  root  cause.  We  did  not  curb  the  trend  of 
hyperconcentration of wealth on our planet, and we did 
not truly provide a response to all those left behind by 
globalization.  All  those  who  were  marginalized  now 
hold a grudge because of the humiliations they suffered 
or  have  been  plunged  into  despair,  for  which  we  are 
now  collectively  paying  the  price.  We  owe  all  those 
people a response.
We owe a response to the 265 million children who 
do not have access to school, more than half of whom 
live in sub-Saharan Africa, and to the young girls who 
have equal access to education in less than 40 per cent 
of countries.
We owe a response to the 700 million children who 
live  in  the  regions  most  exposed  to  the  consequences 
of  climate  change  —  the  victims  of  floods,  droughts, 
rising sea levels and the depletion of resources.
We owe a response to the 200 million women who 
do not have access to contraception, to the more than 
1 billion women who are not protected by law if they 
are victims of violence in their homes, and to all women 
whose global average pay is 23 per cent less than men 
and up to 40 per cent in rural areas.
We owe a response to the 783 million people living 
below the poverty line, to those suffering from hunger 
or chronic malnutrition and to those who do not have 
access to basic health care.
We owe a response to the aspirations of the most 
important generation of young people in history — our 
own  young  people  —  amounting  to  nearly  2  billion 
people who are now between the ages of 10 and 24, and 
90 per cent of whom live in developing countries.
We  owe  a  response  to  all  those  who  look  to  us 
because  their  destiny  depends  on  what  we  are  or  are 
not  able  to  do  here  together  in  the  Assembly.  And 
those  who  forget  that  we  owe  an  answer  to  all  those 
people  are  wrong  because  they  are  sowing  the  seeds 
for tomorrow’s crises and because they will leave their 
children and ours in a much worse situation than we are 
in today.
in 
We  have  made  great  progress 
reducing 
inequalities  among  our  countries,  and  we  have 
created  the  framework  for  that  in  the  2030  Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development,  but  the  fight  is  not 
behind us. It is far from over. Wealth per capita is 50 
times  higher  in  the  countries  of  the  Organization  for 
Economic Cooperation and Development than in low-
income countries. Do we think that we can sustainably 
increase  stability  and  balance  in  this  state  of  affairs? 
No, we must take action. That is why, as I announced 
here  last  year  (see  A/72/PV.4),  I  have  decided  to 
increase  France’s  official  development  assistance  by 
€1 billion starting in 2019. Our humanitarian funding 
will increase by 40 per cent. But it is also why the fight 
against  inequality  will  be  the  priority  of  the  French 
presidency of the Group of Seven (G-7) summit in 2019. 
After Canada, whose leadership I applaud, France will 
assume the G-7’s next presidency. I would like to have a 
major reconsideration of its format in order to improve 
its  association  with  various  other  Powers  and  devise 
new ways to coordinate.
I also wanted it to be at the United Nations that I made 
the first announcement that the inequality agenda will 
be at the centre of the next G-7, and also that I intend to 
report on the results of the Biarritz G-7 next September, 
because  the  time  when  a  club  of  rich  countries  could 
define  the  balances  of  power  in  the  world  by  itself 
has  long  since  passed  and  because  it  is  impossible  to 
separate the fate of each of its members from that of all 
the  States  members  of  the  Assembly.  We  must  tackle 
modern inequalities today because they are at the root 
of  the  evil  that  I  denounced  at  the  beginning  of  my 
statement. We must address inequalities of opportunity, 
which  are  a  moral  aberration  and  an  unsustainable 
reality. We cannot accept a world in which people do 
not have the same opportunities because of the country 
where they were born, or cannot go to school in certain 
countries  because  they  are  women,  or  do  not  have 
access to basic services.
We kept the commitment made here last year with 
the  President  of  Senegal.  The  Global  Partnership  for 
Education  Financing  Conference,  held  in  February  in 
Dakar, raised $2.5 billion to increase access to education 
around the world. That is a historic amount. France has 
increased its contribution tenfold. The mobilization of 
the G-7 already begun under the Canadian presidency 
should make it possible to go even further. We are at 
a  key  moment  on  this  issue  that  will  decide  whether 
or not we are capable of dealing with the challenge we 
30/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
face. Between now and 2030 there will be 620 million 
more children needing schooling worldwide, including 
444 million Africans. Are we going to provide for that? 
Are we going to give them all that they need for a solid 
foundation that will enable them to be agents for their 
own lives, to live as brothers in tomorrow’s world? If 
not, what kind of world are we creating? That is why I 
have committed France to this fight and why I insist so 
much on teacher training, vocational training and gender 
equality  in  education.  That  is  why  I  urge  everyone 
here  to  join  in  this  great  global  surge  for  education. 
Education and health will not only be the pillars of our 
societies  in  the  twenty-first  century,  they  will  be  the 
fundamental building blocks of our economies.
We  must  also  fight  diligently  against  gender 
inequality.  In  France  I  have  made  this  the  signature 
issue  of  my  five-year  term,  and  I  am  launching  an 
appeal  here  to  make  it  a  major  global  issue.  Women 
and girls are the first of us to be affected by poverty, 
conflict and the consequences of global warming. They 
are  the  primary  victims  of  gender-based  and  sexual 
violence,  which  too  often  hinders  their  freedom  of 
movement  and  their  ability  to  work  and  have  control 
over their bodies. It is our responsibility in the twenty-
first century to put an end to such violence, from street 
harassment to femicide. It is time for our world to stop 
victimizing women and finally make a place for them, 
one that they deserve, one where they can be leaders. 
We  must  ensure  that  they  have  access  to  education, 
health  care,  employment  and  economic  and  political 
decision-making  everywhere,  and  we  must  fight  all 
forms  of  violence  against  them.  France  therefore 
proposes  to  those  Governments  that  want  to  move 
forward with us the creation of a coalition for enacting 
new legislation on equality between women and men. 
Fifty  per  cent  of  our  development  assistance  will  be 
devoted to projects aimed at reducing gender inequality.
We must also mobilize against health inequality at 
the  international  level.  In  Lyon  in  2019  we  will  host 
the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria  Replenishment  Conference.  We  will  take  up 
the initiative on the fight against counterfeit medicines 
and will intensify our response to major pandemics. I 
call on everyone here to mobilize.
Lastly,  we  must  fight  urgently,  body  and  soul, 
against environmental inequality. It is unacceptable that 
45 per cent of greenhouse-gas emissions are produced by 
10 per cent of the planet’s richest inhabitants. As is the 
case with solar energy, we have an inefficient situation 
when  the  countries  with  the  greatest  potential  and 
needs have the least access to appropriate technologies. 
It  is  unsustainable  that  100  million  more  people  will 
be  condemned  to  extreme  poverty  by  2030  if  we  fail 
to meet our commitments to fighting global warming. 
Here too we must be united in combat. Some countries 
represented  here  are  suffering  more  than  others,  and 
we  owe  them  our  solidarity.  But  we  will  all  be  held 
accountable for the disasters that are multiplying before 
our very eyes, before our peoples and our own children. 
The  proclaimed  breakdown  of  the  Paris  Climate 
Change Agreement has been thwarted because we have 
been able to remain united, despite the decision of the 
United States to withdraw from it. That strength must 
continue to support us and help us to ward off all the 
fatalistic predictions.
We are told that solutions exist but that the funding 
is lacking. So let us go find it, let us innovate. This is 
what we did last year in Paris, on 12 December, with 
many of those gathered here, at the One Planet Summit, 
with  concrete  commitments  and  first  results.  That  is 
what we did at the beginning of the year in Delhi, with 
the International Solar Alliance. That is what we will do 
again tomorrow in New York, at the second One Planet 
Summit. We are told that it is already too late, that we 
cannot meet the goals. So let us speed up, let us together 
adopt the rules for implementing the Paris Agreement 
in December at the 24th session of the Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change. Let us implement the protocol against 
hydrofluorocarbon  gases,  which  could  enable  us  to 
reduce  the  average  global  temperature  by  one  degree 
by 2050. Let us set ourselves the goal of concluding an 
ambitious draft global environmental pact by 2020, and 
ensuring that the Beijing Conference of the Parties to 
the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity  and  the  2020 
International Union for Conservation of Nature World 
Conservation Congress in France will be decisive steps.
Let  us  make  a  clear  commitment,  and  let  us  all 
be  equally  clear,  concrete  and  consistent.  This  is  an 
emergency.  So  let  us  honour  the  commitments  we 
have  made.  Let  us  no  longer  sign  trade  agreements 
with Powers that do not respect the Paris Agreement. 
Let us ensure that our business commitments integrate 
our environmental and social constraints. Let us work 
harder to involve sovereign wealth funds and financiers 
in this low-carbon-policy strategy. France will continue 
to  be  a  global  leader  in  this  fight  alongside  everyone 
who wants to join. We will work in the G-7 to ensure 
18-29769
31/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
that the commitments made at the 2015 Climate Change 
Conference  are  increased,  and  if  one  of  our  members 
does not want to move forward, we will move forward 
anyway  by  seeking  new  coalitions  and  new  formats, 
because the G-7’s mission is to remain a united group 
of  countries  committed  to  democracy.  But  today  it 
must also contribute to the creation of new coalitions 
that  will  make  it  possible  to  improve  and  restructure 
the collective global system. So let us build new forms 
of  cooperation  to  make  progress  and  take  decisions 
on  those  fundamental  issues.  Only  together  can  we 
effectively fight the inequalities that have fractured all 
of our societies and that have fuelled mistrust and the 
temptation  to  withdraw  —  inequalities  that  we  have 
allowed to grow and to which we have been collectively 
unable to respond effectively.
But none of us can effectively fight the inequalities 
I  have  decried  if  we  act  alone.  If  we  do,  there  are 
essentially only two solutions. The first is to continually 
lower the bar and revert to the standards that we know, 
as we have been doing for decades. We have a trade war, 
so let us reduce workers’ rights, keep cutting taxes and 
fuel our inequalities that way in an effort to respond to 
our trade problems. What does that lead to? It reinforces 
the inequalities in our societies and the disruption that 
we are living through. The alternative is to say that it 
is the rules that are not working, so we should retreat 
inwards  towards  isolationism  and  protectionism.  But 
the  only  thing  that  leads  to  is  heightened  tensions, 
which do nothing to address serious inequalities.
What I am proposing instead is that we put in place 
a  collective  mechanism  to  enable  us  to  work  together 
on what we are doing in each of our countries to reduce 
inequalities, to evaluate our actions but also to coordinate 
them better and to disseminate best practices. I therefore 
propose  that  international  institutions  —  the  United 
Nations, but the OECD as well, of course — support us 
in setting up such a mechanism, for which the G-7 must 
be the driving force.
To defeat inequality, we must change our methods. 
First, we should revise both our trade and social rules. 
Rather  than  pursuing  protectionism,  we  should  all 
work  together  to  thoroughly  review  the  World  Trade 
Organization (WTO) rules. We must restore the WTO’s 
ability  to  resolve  conflicts  and  establish  rules  for  the 
unfair trade practices, non-compliance with intellectual 
property  rights  and  forced  technology  transfers  that 
make a level playing field impossible. Starting this year, 
the Group of Twenty summit in Argentina must provide 
us  with  a  credible  road  map  for  rebuilding  the  WTO. 
That is also what we will have to do on the social front 
next  year,  during  the  centenary  of  the  International 
Labour Organization.
Secondly,  we  must  also  change  the  modalities  of 
our  action,  bringing  into  the  scope  of  our  collective 
action  the  major  players  who  are  not  in  this  Hall  or 
at  the  General  Assembly,  the  big  non-State  actors 
who  are  helping  to  change  the  world  but  who  do  not 
participate  enough  in  reducing  the  inequalities  that 
these  transformations  bring,  and  by  that  I  mean  the 
major  digital  players,  both  in  terms  of  taxation  and 
of  responsibility  for  combating  the  manipulation  of 
information.  We  need  to  operate  differently  from 
our  standard  collective  action  where  all  our  major 
challenges  are  concerned  and  include  dialogue  with 
these new private stakeholders and Internet giants.
Thirdly, we must enable Africa to take its rightful 
place so that it can play a central part in rebuilding the 
international system. It is not only on that continent that 
we will collectively win or lose our great battle against 
inequality — it is with that continent, because today it 
is in Africa that we find the most fervent defenders of 
multilateralism  and  regional  integration.  Our  African 
partners have fully understood that we can only meet 
our common challenges together. And this new alliance 
with Africa will also be a focus of the French presidency 
of the G-7.
that  despite 
I  firmly  believe 
these  fractures 
and  challenges  in  the  modern  world  order,  we  can 
put  together  a  new  vocabulary  for  action  while  also 
addressing the root causes of inequality today. And it is 
the responsibility of France and all its European partners, 
of  the  European  Union,  to  be  in  the  vanguard  in  this 
fight, to build a new, modern humanism that refuses to 
yield to attempts to withdraw or to simple-mindedness 
and  at  the  same  time,  as  mediating  Powers,  to  build 
these new rules for the international order.
At a time when our collective system is cracking, 
I  have  to  say  that  we  have  never  needed  it  so  much. 
That is why we will support the agencies working on 
projects  for  peace  and  humanity  —  UNESCO,  the 
conscience  of  the  United  Nations;  the  Human  Rights 
Council; the International Criminal Court; the United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East, to which we will increase 
our  contribution  —  because,  I  want  to  remind  the 
Assembly,  we  are  simply  talking  about  enabling 
32/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
hundreds  of  thousands  of  children  to  go  to  school, 
nothing less, nothing more.
We will defend expanding both member categories 
of the Security Council so that its composition reflects 
today’s balances of power and so that it is strengthened 
as a forum for consultation rather than obstruction. We 
will ensure that by the end of the year, two thirds of the 
members of the General Assembly can support limiting 
the right of veto in the case of mass atrocities. We will 
defend  international  humanitarian  law  by  supporting 
staff who take extraordinary risks to help civilians on 
the  ground  by  negotiating  humanitarian  access  to  all 
theatres, one by one.
On the seventieth anniversary of the 1948 Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  we  will  remind  the 
world that human rights are not a cultural thing. They 
are not simply values or revocable options, but a legal 
corpus enshrined in international treaties to which the 
members  of  the  Assembly  have  freely  consented.  We 
will point out that their universality not only does not 
run  counter  to  a  people’s  sovereignty,  it  is  rather  the 
only  way  to  ensure  the  preservation  and  exercise  of 
those rights.
France will be there to ensure that the world does 
not  forget  that  clashing  nationalisms  only  plunge  us 
into the abyss, that when democracies lack the courage 
to  defend  their  principles,  they  are  weak,  and  that 
accumulated  resentments,  backed  only  by  a  fragile 
international system, can result in a global unleashing 
of violence twice in the space of one human life. I am 
speaking from our own experience. In a few weeks’ time, 
on  11  November,  the  Paris  Peace  Forum  will  present 
an opportunity for us to see a surge of thoughtfulness 
and  courage  as  we  attempt  to  rediscover  what  keeps 
us together here. For us, united by the tragedies of the 
twentieth century, it should be a time for renewal and 
to  rediscover  the  oath  we  have  taken  to  save  future 
generations from the scourge of war. I want us and our 
counterparts to take on new responsibilities during the 
Forum in order to chart the way for concrete actions in 
the service of peace.
I know that many of us may be tired of multilateralism. 
In  a  world  that  is  flooded  with  information  and  in 
which  in  a  sense  we  are  in  a  free-for-all,  in  which 
society  is  a  reality  show  where  it  is  fashionable  and 
newsworthy  to  say  the  worst  possible  things,  I  know 
that  denouncing  the  consequences  of  causes  we  have 
championed  can  be  a  successful  political  tactic  and 
that defending cooperation and multilateralism may no 
longer be fashionable. Then let us not be fashionable, 
because  we  have  a  duty  to  those  who  have  made  it 
possible  for  us  to  sit  in  this  Hall.  Because  we  must 
never forget that the genocides that are the reason we 
are here today were fuelled by the speeches that we are 
growing accustomed to, by the political spectacles that 
we applaud. Because we are now seeing international 
law and every kind of cooperation disintegrate, as if it 
was nothing, out of fear and complicity and because it 
looks good.
But I will not do that. I will not do it, because I come 
from a country that helped to create the declarations that 
have brought us here, because I come from a country 
that stands tall, and while it has made many mistakes 
and done many bad things, it has been able to maintain 
a kind of universalism at every point in its own history 
and in international history. This is today. This is now. 
So we must not get used to it. We must not accept all 
these kinds of unilateralism. Every day pages are being 
ripped in a betrayal of our history. And I am not going 
to get used to it.
This  is  what  I  have  to  say,  very  clearly.  This 
nascent  century  is  watching  us,  and  our  children  are 
waiting.  We  must  resolve  our  crises.  We  must  work 
together to combat all our inequalities, but let us do so 
on a human level and in full accord with our principles, 
our histories and our universalism. In any case, that is 
my  commitment  to  everyone  here,  and  I  am  counting 
on us all.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the French Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Emmanuel  Macron,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Danny Faure, President of the 
Republic of Seychelles
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Seychelles.
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Seychelles,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
18-29769
33/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Danny Faure, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Seychelles,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.
President Faure: Let me start by paying tribute to 
the  statesmen  and  giants  of  history  who  have  walked 
these halls and without whom our Organization would 
not be what it is today, a symbol of unity and cooperation 
for  all  the  nations  in  the  world.  As  we  celebrate  the 
anniversary  of  this  great  Organization,  let  us  pause 
and reflect on the true purpose that lies at the heart of 
the  United  Nations.  We  must  renew  our  commitment 
not only to the Charter of the United Nations, but to its 
founding principles, which must always guide us in our 
deliberations and actions. Those cooperative values are 
critical to the continued peace and prosperity of all our 
nations  and  peoples.  We  cannot  let  them  come  under 
threat.  As  a  collective,  we  must  continue  to  embrace 
multilateralism,  which  has  underpinned  the  values  of 
our Organization for nearly three quarters of a century.
Seychelles  continues  to  embrace  the  multilateral 
system that is the United Nations, and we fully support 
the evolution and progress that will come out of United 
Nations  reform.  Those  reforms  stress  the  need  for  a 
more coordinated approach among the United Nations 
country  teams  in  order  to  successfully  deliver  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and related 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs).  We  consider 
multilateral cooperation to be of the utmost importance, 
and  in  that  spirit,  on  30  August  the  Government  of 
Seychelles and its United Nations country team signed 
their first strategic partnership framework for the period 
from 2019 to 2023, defining the collective support of 18 
United  Nations  agencies.  The  challenges  that  we  face 
in the international system remain a vivid reminder of 
an evolving world to which we must adapt if we are to 
secure  lasting  peace  and  prosperity.  Without  targeted 
approaches that touch the lives of our most vulnerable 
peoples and without fully embracing the promise of the 
SDGs, we run the risk of leaving some behind.
there 
is 
in  which 
Strong  institutions  are  essential  to  a  vibrant 
democracy 
transparency  and 
accountability to the people. My mandate as President 
of Seychelles has in part been highlighted by my desire 
to ensure that our institutions not only serve the people 
but  grant  them  the  necessary  recourse  should  they 
feel  the  need.  Only  by  strengthening  our  institutions 
and binding ourselves to international law and norms 
can our peoples truly have accountable Governments. 
Today I call on the advanced economies to support the 
strengthening of institutions in developing nations, not 
through  handouts,  but  by  sharing  expertise  and  best 
practices for the benefit of all. Only by strengthening 
institutions  can  we  ensure  respect  for  human  rights, 
the  rule  of  law  and  independent  judiciaries,  which  in 
turn  will  ensure  that  the  future  can  favour  a  vibrant 
democratic order.
Speaking from the standpoint of an islander, I cannot 
dissociate the concept of lasting peace and prosperity 
from the perils of climate change. Climate change has 
become an existential threat not merely to the lives of 
people in island States but to the world as a whole. As 
islanders, we live that stark reality every day. We see 
its effects in our eroding coastlines and unpredictable 
weather patterns, on our coral reefs and rising sea levels. 
While I recognize the need for development as a driving 
force to lift our people out of poverty, we must remain 
aware of its consequences for our planet and our future. 
Through our neglect, we risk our children inheriting a 
planet that is beyond their capacity to repair. Should we 
not uphold the commitments we have made — from the 
Paris  Climate  Change  Conference  to  the  Conference 
of  the  twenty-third  session  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  held  in 
Bonn last year under Fiji’s presidency — we will reach 
an inescapable crisis.
I  believe  in  the  power  of  our  collective  efforts  to 
shape  a  future  of  which  we  can  all  be  proud.  In  that 
context, I would like to draw the Assembly’s attention 
to the theme of our seventy-third session, “Making the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and  shared  responsibility  for  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  societies”.  The  words  “sustainable 
societies”  have  particular  resonance  for  small  island 
developing States (SIDS).
For  our  United  Nations  to  be  truly  inclusive  and 
keep up with the challenges of an ever-changing world, 
Seychelles aligns itself firmly with the African Union 
position calling for the long-overdue and comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  That  includes  the 
equitable  representation  of  Africa,  whose  countries 
make  up  more  than  a  quarter  of  the  members  of  the 
United Nations, after all.
Sustainability  has  always  been  and  will  continue 
to be at the heart of my country’s development efforts. 
As a nation, we have shown the world our commitment 
to  that  process.  Seychelles,  alongside  its  fellow  small 
island developing States, has been actively engaged in 
34/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
that discourse in order to ensure that our concerns and 
needs are adequately addressed. Our nation was forged 
by the ocean. We are acutely aware of the challenges that 
poses with the threat of climate change. However, the 
ocean  also  presents  a  myriad  untapped  opportunities. 
At the beginning of this year, my country, Seychelles, 
pioneered a blue economy strategic policy framework 
and  road  map,  to  multiply  the  economic  potential 
of  our  territorial  waters  while  also  protecting  them 
for  generations  to  come.  For  us,  the  blue  economy  is 
the  next  frontier  of  development.  It  is  about  ocean-
based  sustainable  development  focusing  on  economic 
diversification,  shared  prosperity,  food  security  and 
healthy  and  productive  oceans.  It  is  encouraging  to 
note that other like-minded States are developing that 
concept, regardless of their geography.
Seychelles is slowly shifting from a dependence on 
bilateral aid donors to developing innovative sources of 
financing for our emerging blue economy. We are trying 
to  leverage  the  wealth  of  the  ocean  that  surrounds  us 
and engage in exciting new partnerships. Nevertheless, 
we  recognize  that  will  not  be  enough  to  meet  all  our 
sustainable-development and climate-action obligations 
under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 
Paris Agreement and the SIDS Accelerated Modalities 
of  Action  Pathway.  That  is  why  Seychelles  is  one  of 
those small island developing States that continues to 
advocate  for  a  SIDS-specific  resilience  index,  which 
would  take  into  account  the  unique  vulnerabilities 
and specificities of small island developing States and 
better reflect the realities that we face. The agenda of 
small island developing States is inextricably linked to 
that of humankind.
and 
through  dialogue 
The  United  Nations  was  born  of  the  horrors  of  a 
destructive  world  war.  It  was  charged  with  upholding 
the  idea  that  as  a  collective,  we  could  resolve  our 
differences 
international 
diplomacy.  Together,  we  continue  to  demonstrate  the 
success and unrelenting power of diplomacy and, in the 
case  of  smaller  States  like  ours,  we  have  also  proved 
that might is not right. In this unique forum, we have 
equal  representation.  Seychelles  remains  committed 
to the ideals of the United Nations and will remain an 
active  voice  within  this  Organization.  Today  we  are 
being presented with a unique opportunity to transform 
our world through our collective efforts and to create 
lasting partnerships. We have a unique opportunity to 
sculpt a future for our children that they can be proud to 
inherit. Let us be on the right side of history and live up 
to the ideals out of which this Organization was born.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President 
of the Republic of Seychelles for the statement he has 
just made.
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Seychelles,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Martín Vizcarra Cornejo, 
President of the Republic of Peru
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Martín  Vizcarra  Cornejo,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Martín 
Vizcarra  Cornejo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Peru, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Vizcarra  Cornejo  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At the outset, I want to welcome Ms. María Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés,  who  is  assuming  the  presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session, 
and  to  wish  her  a  successful  mandate.  I  am  sure  that 
her role will promote the multilateral system. She has 
Peru’s support.
I  assumed  the  presidency  of  Peru  just  six  months 
ago, when my country was facing a serious political and 
institutional crisis that we dealt with by ensuring full 
respect for the provisions of our political Constitution, 
which  made  it  possible  to  restore  the  democratic 
stability  that  my  country  had  been  longing  for.  A 
few  days  after  my  term  began,  we  had  the  honour  of 
welcoming  the  leaders  of  30  countries  to  the  eighth 
Summit of the Americas, which resulted in the signing 
of  the  Lima  Commitment  to  democratic  governance 
against  corruption.  The  agreement  consists  of  57 
specific  measures  and  actions  to  strengthen  the  fight 
against  corruption  and  regional  cooperation  in  that 
fight, including increasing transparency, accountability 
and  political  parties’  use  of  banks  in  their  election 
campaigns,  as  well  as  a  call  to  the  countries  in  our 
18-29769
35/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
hemisphere  to  consider  restricting  access  to  public 
office for people convicted of corruption.
We  are  aware  that  corruption  affects  democratic 
governance and the rule of law. Nothing can be built on 
the basis of entities immersed in corruption. One of the 
first decisions that my Government took was therefore 
to  establish  an  overall  policy  for  the  Government 
policy through 2021. Its main thrusts are integrity and 
the  fight  against  corruption,  as  well  as  strengthening 
governance  institutions.  Within  that  framework,  we 
have approved a 2018-2021 national plan for integrity 
and  combating  corruption.  In  addition,  two  months 
ago  we  submitted  to  the  legislature  a  series  of  bills 
aimed  at  legal  and  political  reform  that  also  involve 
constitutional  reforms,  in  which  a  few  days  ago  our 
Congress expressed its confidence and its commitment 
to submitting for a referendum to be held on 9 December, 
involving the participation and decision-making of the 
entire citizenry through its vote.
I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  Peru  is  making 
progress  towards  its  long-awaited  political  reforms 
and justice-system reforms through constitutional and 
participatory mechanisms that honour our commitments 
made  at  the  Summit  of  the  Americas  in  Lima.  We 
believe that only joint efforts by the State authorities, 
along  with  transparency,  accountability  and  citizens’ 
participation  can  enable  us  to  build  the  country  we 
deserve. In that context, I would like to announce that 
Peru  will  promote  the  adoption  of  a  draft  resolution 
within the framework of the United Nations Convention 
against Corruption and its Conference of States Parties, 
aimed  at  strengthening  the  cooperation  needed  to 
combat that scourge, especially large-scale corruption 
and its transnational reach. We also want to promote a 
decisive effort by the Assembly aimed at encouraging 
all States to renew their political commitment to fight 
corruption and to explore new and more effective ways 
of  combating  it.  Every  year  corruption  diverts  5  per 
cent of the world’s gross domestic product to enrich the 
few rather than directing those resources to effectively 
meeting  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  for  the 
benefit of those who need it most.
With regard to climate change, it is clear that Peru 
is one of the world’s most vulnerable countries in terms 
of climate change. Our people’s primary natural asset 
is  our  great  biodiversity,  and  changes  in  temperature 
and  extreme  climatic  events  such  as  droughts  and 
heavy rains therefore make us particularly vulnerable. 
As  a  country  we  have  worked  hard  to  create  a  legal 
framework  that  ensures  predictability  for  investments 
with high environmental and social standards through 
a  focus  on  production,  protection  and  inclusion.  In 
order to combat climate change, we have to overcome 
poverty. We need responsible investments to continue 
growing because the poorest of our people are the most 
vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
I had the privilege, in one of my Government’s first 
actions, to see a climate change framework law enacted 
with  the  aim  of  reducing  our  vulnerability  to  climate 
change and taking advantage of opportunities for growth 
through  low-emission  development.  Furthermore,  we 
are one of the few countries that has an action plan for 
both  gender  and  climate  change,  because  women  are 
the  most  vulnerable  of  all.  I  would  also  like  to  point 
out  that  we  all  have  a  moral  obligation  to  protect  our 
planet for future generations and guarantee our citizens 
the  right  to  a  healthy  environment.  That  is  both  my 
personal belief and a State policy, so I can assure the 
Assembly  that  Peru  will  continue  to  promote  action 
at  the  national  and  international  levels  to  effectively 
combat climate change.
As we work to achieve the Sustainable Development 
Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
which have already been incorporated into our national 
development  plans,  our  primary  responsibility  is  to 
achieve them with political determination and courage 
through  the  involvement  of  citizens  and  the  private 
sector. We will also pay special attention to combating 
violence  and  discrimination  against  women.  Our 
objective is to overcome the structural inequalities that 
women and girls suffer from in Peru, to guarantee their 
human rights and empower them to achieve their full 
development potential.
In  an  international  context  in  which  nationalist 
discourses  promoting  economic  and  commercial 
protectionism,  discrimination  and  xenophobia  are 
re-emerging, I believe it is necessary to reaffirm Peru’s 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  to  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
As a member of the Security Council, Peru reaffirms 
its willingness to contribute to international peace and 
security, particularly through its active participation in 
peacekeeping  operations.  In  that  important  body,  we 
will  continue  to  advocate  for  harmonious  work  based 
on  international  law  and  international  humanitarian 
law.  For  a  developing  country  like  Peru,  the  United 
Nations  represents  a  platform  for  shared  action  to 
achieve sustainable development, promote human rights 
36/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
and address global challenges such as climate change, 
terrorism,  the  proliferation  of  weapons,  systematic 
corruption and illicit drug trafficking.
I would like to express my country’s commitment 
to free trade, which has enabled us to generate wealth, 
reduce  poverty  and  make  progress  on  sustainable 
development. We recognize the important role played by 
the World Trade Organization in ensuring the stability, 
predictability  and  transparency  of  the  multilateral 
trading  system.  I  invite  every  country  to  make  the 
same commitment and to avoid protectionist measures, 
which, if implemented, will represent a setback both for 
developed countries and for those of us in the process 
of development.
With  regard  to  democracy  and  human  rights  in 
our  region,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our  democratic 
orientation, which led us to head the process that resulted 
in  the  adoption  of  the  Inter-American  Democratic 
Charter in 2001. The Charter reflects the commitment of 
the countries of the Americas to defending democracy, 
respecting  human  rights  and  upholding  fundamental 
freedoms in the region. That commitment encourages 
us to seek ways to help to re-establish the democratic 
order  where  necessary.  That  is  why  Peru  condemns 
the  breakdown  of  constitutional  order  in  Venezuela. 
We will continue to promote initiatives to help restore 
democracy in our sister country within the framework 
of  the  Organization  of  American  States,  the  Lima 
Group  and  in  other  multilateral  forums.  We  reiterate 
our  concern  about  and  condemnation  of  the  serious 
human  rights  violations  in  Venezuela  denounced  by 
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights and the Inter-American Commission on Human 
Rights,  which  among  other  violations  have  reported 
extrajudicial  killings.  Peru  has  also  filed  a  complaint 
with the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court 
with  a  view  to  punishing  those  responsible  for  the 
crimes committed in Venezuela.
to 
the  serious  humanitarian  crisis 
My  country  expresses  its  unwavering  solidarity 
with  the  Venezuelan  people  and  calls  for  an  urgent 
response 
in 
Venezuela,  which  has  led  to  a  flood  of  migrants  and 
refugees  throughout  our  region.  My  Government  has 
taken steps to help to regulate the influx of the more 
than  450,000  Venezuelan  migrants  who  have  come  to 
Peru in search of a decent future. However, the scope of 
the exodus is unprecedented in our region and requires 
a collective response from the international community.
I  conclude  by  expressing  our  confidence  in  the 
potential  of  multilateralism,  international  law  and 
the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
in  responding  to  the  challenges  before  us,  promoting 
sustainable  peace  and  development  and  guaranteeing 
the  human  rights  of  our  citizens.  Peru  will  continue 
to  work  constructively  within  the  framework  of  the 
Organization  to  achieve  the  goals  of  the  founding 
Charter of the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Peru for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Martín  Vizcarra  Cornejo,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn 
Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the King of the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn 
Al Hussein, King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
King Abdullah: It is an honour to take part in the 
general  debate  of  the  wonderful  General  Assembly 
once again.
The  United  Nations  was  born  from  the  ashes  of 
the Second World War, out of a deep desire to protect 
new generations from suffering, destruction and want. 
Today,  those  hopes  still  face  challenges.  Peace  and 
stability  have  met  threats  in  every  region,  too  many 
people remain excluded from the promise of prosperity, 
and global terror continues to target all nations. Here 
in this Hall, I have called our current situation a third 
world war.
Those  challenges  do  not  make  collective  action 
and  mutual  respect  less  important;  if  anything,  they 
make  our  partnership  even  more  important,  because 
what is the alternative? A world without the peace and 
18-29769
37/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
accord  we  need  to  work  together,  trade  together  and 
expand opportunity together? A world where crises are 
not  resolved,  but  magnified?  A  world  where  violence 
spreads  and  more  refugees  flee,  because  we  cannot 
work together to help people stay safe and thrive?
We  have  a  long  way  to  go  to  deliver  global 
opportunity  and  hope,  but  we  cannot  simply  give  up 
because  the  task  is  hard.  All  our  countries  benefit 
when  we  unite  in  common  cause.  I  am  compelled  to 
talk  about  this  today,  because  of  the  critical  role  of 
collective  action  in  ending  the  serious  crises  in  my 
region, and especially the key crisis — the long denial 
of a Palestinian State.
Every  United  Nations  resolution  —  whether  from 
the General Assembly or the Security Council — since 
the beginning of the crisis recognizes the equal rights 
of the Palestinian people to a future of peace, dignity 
and hope. That is the heart of the two-State settlement 
and  the  only  path  to  a  comprehensive,  lasting  peace. 
Only  a  two-State  solution  based  on  international  law 
and  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  can  meet 
the needs of both sides: an end to the conflict; a viable, 
independent,  sovereign  Palestinian  State  on  the  1967 
borders with East Jerusalem as its capital; and a secure 
Israel, fully part of its own region, recognized by Arab 
and Muslim States around the world.
Arab  and  Muslim  countries  are  committed  to  a 
comprehensive  peace.  The  Arab  Peace  Initiative  has 
been  on  offer  for  more  than  16  years.  Indeed,  every 
major country in the world, the United Nations and the 
European  Union  all  have  worked  to  help  the  parties 
reach a durable peace that can last. The United States 
Administration has long been committed to peace and 
has a leading role in our progress going forward.
Yes,  we  have  a  long  way  to  go.  But  we  cannot 
give  up  because  the  task  is  hard,  because  what  is  the 
alternative? Can we afford to let one of the world’s most 
strategic regions be tied to an endless cycle of violence 
in its midst? How long must Jerusalem, a city  holy to 
more than half the world’s people, face dangers to its 
multi-faith heritage and identity? How can we accept a 
status quo of continuing crises and bigotry? Palestinian 
families  have  been  displaced  for  generations,  their 
children’s very identity denied, and Israeli families are 
living in continuing national self-isolation, without the 
security of peaceful relationships worldwide.
What  could  possibly  be  the  future  of  the  single, 
that  some  propose,  whose  very 
binational  State 
foundation  is  a  rejection  of  the  equality  of  its  own 
people?  That  is  the  ugly  and  undemocratic  reality  of 
the one-State idea. It is by no means an alternative to 
a  two-State  peace  settlement.  It  is  an  abandonment 
of  peace,  a  new  way  to  go  AWOL  from  the  work  of 
reconciliation and the opposite of what both sides need 
and have sought for so long.
There  is  no  such  thing  as  a  unilateral  agreement; 
it  takes  at  least  two  parties  to  make  an  agreement. 
Helping the parties to achieve that agreement and work 
together to build a new future deserves the strong and 
steady support of all our world. Our countries need to 
pull  together  to  get  the  peace  process  back  on  track. 
That  means  utterly  rejecting  actions  that  jeopardize 
negotiations,  whether  by  illegal  encroachments,  land 
confiscations  or  threats  to  the  welfare  of  innocents, 
especially children.
We  need  to  support  full  funding  of  the  United 
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees 
in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  and  other  vital  efforts  to 
protect families, keep communities stable and prepare 
young people for productive lives. It would be a terrible 
mistake to abandon youth to the forces of radicalization 
and despair. Such support is urgently needed to ensure 
that  UNRWA  fulfils  its  role,  in  accordance  with  its 
United Nations mandate.
Above  all,  we  need  to  safeguard  the  heritage  and 
peace  of  Jerusalem,  a  city  holy  to  billions  of  people 
around  the  world.  The  Hashemite  custodianship  of 
Islamic and Christian holy sites in Jerusalem is a duty 
that  Jordan  is  proud  to  carry,  and  we  will  counter 
any attempts to change the Holy City’s historic Arab, 
Christian and Muslim identity. But Jerusalem’s future 
is  not  Jordan’s  concern  alone;  it  is  the  concern  of  all 
Member  States.  There  are  global  implications  when 
religious  worship  is  threatened  and  international  law 
is undermined.
Collective  action  is  also  vital  when  it  comes  to 
resolving  other  conflicts  and  crises  that  threaten 
our world. Jordan will continue to support all multilateral 
efforts  to  help  Syria  achieve  a  political  solution  that 
is  based  on  the  Geneva  process  and  Security  Council 
resolution  2254  (2015),  in  order  to  safeguard  the 
country’s  unity,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
and to create the conditions for stability and rebuilding.
An effective global response to terror also requires 
continued collective action. Let us be clear about it: for 
all  our  victories,  the  fight  against  those  outlaws,  the 
38/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
khawarij of Islam, is not over. Winning the war demands 
a long-term, holistic approach — one that pairs security 
measures with strong initiatives that support inclusion 
and hope. Offline and online, we must counter all — I 
say all — ideologies of hatred, including Islamophobia. 
Jordanians have led efforts to unite the world in mutual 
respect and understanding.
Finally,  we  must  also  strengthen  our  collective 
response  to  the  global  refugee  crisis.  As  many  here 
know, Jordan has carried a massive and disproportionate 
burden as a refugee host. Our people have opened their 
homes, schools, public services and hospitals. We have 
shared our country’s scarce resources: our food, energy 
and precious water. The crisis has held back economic 
growth  and  job  creation;  jobs  are  urgently  needed  by 
our young people, who constitute more than 60 per cent 
of our population.
Jordanians  have  borne  the  refugee  burden  in  full 
accordance  with  our  country’s  long  humanitarian 
traditions, but we know, and the world knows, that the 
crisis is a global responsibility. The sacrifices we and 
other host countries make every day can continue only 
if donor nations hold up their side of the partnership. 
That  means  making  continued,  multi-track  efforts  in 
development  support  and  humanitarian  assistance. 
Such efforts not only prepare refugees to return home 
and  rebuild  their  countries,  but  also  give  hope  to  the 
people of host countries, who have sacrificed so much.
The  world  cannot  address  the  refugee  crisis  or 
any  global  crisis  unless  we  work  together  to  support 
those who are doing the right thing for the future we 
all  share.  Peace  and  prosperity  demand  constant, 
collective action. The alternative is to fail our history 
and fail our future. Let us choose, instead, to succeed 
and  give  the  world’s  people,  especially  young  people, 
confidence in global justice, hope for new opportunity, 
and international laws, agreements and institutions that 
everyone can rely on.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the King of the Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has just made.
His Majesty King Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, King 
of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin 
Hamad Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the Emir of the 
State of Qatar.
His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Emir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to the United Nations His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin 
Hamad  Al-Thani,  Emir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
Sheikh Al-Thani (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I wish to congratulate Her Excellency María Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  assuming  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its seventy-third session. We wish 
her  every  success.  I  also  express  our  appreciation  to 
His Excellency Miroslav Lajčák for his valuable efforts 
during the seventy-second session. We pay tribute also 
to  the  relentless  efforts  of  Secretary-General  António 
Guterres to promote the role of the United Nations and 
achieve its lofty goals.
I would like to express our sincere condolences to the 
family of Mr. Kofi Annan and to the United Nations on 
his passing. He was one of the most important symbols 
of the United Nations and a promoter of international 
cooperation, development and peace among nations.
The  world  faces  serious  security,  political  and 
economic  threats  and  challenges  that  do  not  respect 
borders, which represents a real test for the collective 
security  of  the  United  Nations.  If  the  international 
community  wants  to  achieve  international  peace  and 
security, we must go beyond crisis management and seek 
comprehensive  and  just  solutions,  in  accordance  with 
the provisions of international law and the resolutions 
of international legitimacy, while rejecting selectivity, 
double standards and policies of the imposition of force.
We recognize and appreciate the vital importance 
of having an international and comprehensive point of 
reference  reﬂected  in  a  legitimate  international  order 
that  respects  the  rule  of  law.  We  must  expedite  the 
reform process of United Nations institutions in order to 
enable the Organization to shoulder its responsibilities, 
achieve its lofty goals and respond to the aspirations of 
peoples. That would enable us to bring about peaceful, 
equitable and sustainable societies, which is the theme 
18-29769
39/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
that the President of the General Assembly has chosen 
for this session.
its States through dialogue, so as to avoid any similar 
recurrence in future.
More than a year after the illegal blockade imposed 
on  the  State  of  Qatar,  many  facts  have  been  revealed 
about  a  pre-arranged  campaign  of  incitement  against 
it, as well as the insinuations and fabrications used to 
create  the  crisis.  In  the  meantime,  the  international 
community  also  recognized  the  falseness  of  the 
allegations  made  against  my  country  to  justify  the 
premeditated measures taken under the pretext of those 
fabricated and untrue allegations, in ﬂagrant violation 
of international law and basic relations between nations, 
as well as the values and norms of our peoples.
Despite  all  the  measures  taken  to  undermine 
Qatar’s  security  and  stability  and  to  create  hardship 
for  its  people,  in  addition  to  the  economic  warfare 
launched to hinder its development process, the period 
that  followed  that  unjust  siege  has  witnessed  the 
strengthening  of  the  status  of  the  State  of  Qatar  and 
the consolidation of its role as an active partner in the 
regional and international arenas. Moreover, the Qatari 
economy has continued to grow, proof of its vigour and 
consistency. The State of Qatar has also maintained its 
advanced  and  leading  rankings  compared  with  other 
countries of the region in global indicators, especially 
in the areas of human security and human development. 
That has strengthened the Qatari people’s faith in their 
potential,  values  and  principles  and  increased  their 
cohesion and unity.
Believing  in  the  soundness  of  our  legal  position, 
in the need for the peaceful settlement of disputes and 
in dialogue as the best way to resolve crises, we have 
been, and remain, positively responsive to all the efforts 
of brotherly and friendly nations, which we appreciate, 
to end this crisis through unconditional dialogue, based 
on mutual respect for the sovereignty of nations.
It is not reasonable for differences of opinion on the 
handling of some regional issues to lead to paralysing 
the effectiveness of an important regional organization 
such  as  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  (GCC).  The 
blockade  on  Qatar  has  harmed  the  reputation  of  the 
GCC  countries,  and  the  paralysis  of  the  GCC  has 
reflected  negatively  on  the  role  it  aspires  to  play  in 
dealing with regional and global issues. We hope that 
we will all be able to transform the current plight of the 
GCC into an opportunity for reform and to put forward 
binding mechanisms to resolve the differences among 
It is not right that our Arab region remains hostage 
because  of  some  marginal  differences  —  fabricated, 
in our case — which consume efforts and energy and 
waste  more  funds  than  we  allocate  to  the  just  causes 
upon which we are supposed to agree.
Little  progress  has  been  made  on  the  lingering 
Middle East issues, especially the Palestinian question, 
which represents the last vestiges of our world’s colonial 
past. The political process that began 25 years ago was 
an example of a departure from United Nations terms 
of  reference  to  frameworks  outside  the  Organization, 
which were perceived by some as the best and fastest 
way to settle and find solutions to that question. That 
process was supported by the Arab States and respectful 
of the Palestinian decision, but it has resulted in further 
stalemate  and  complexity.  We  are  now  witnessing 
attempts  to  eliminate  the  Palestinian  question  by 
disregarding  issues  relating  to  a  permanent  solution, 
such  as  those  of  Jerusalem,  refugees,  sovereignty 
and borders.
Just national issues cannot be resolved by becoming 
entangled in the balance of power between the occupier 
and the occupied. Such issues can be resolved only in 
accordance  with  certain  principles,  such  as  the  right 
to  self-determination  and  the  inadmissibility  of  the 
annexation of territories of others by force, which have 
become part of international legitimacy.
The deterioration of the situation in the Palestinian 
territories,  particularly  the  inhumane  conditions  in 
the  Gaza  Strip,  the  suffocating  siege  to  which  it  is 
subjected and the continued construction of settlements 
in occupied Jerusalem and the West Bank, are having 
grave consequences and place a historic responsibility 
on the Security Council. We reaffirm the importance of 
negotiations, whose resumption is vital and which will 
require  a  commitment  to  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy,  foremost  among  which  are  the  two-State 
solution  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  based  on  East 
Jerusalem as the capital of the Palestinian State, along 
the  1967  borders.  Moreover,  there  can  be  no  solution 
to  the  Arab-Israeli  conﬂict  without  a  just  and  lasting 
solution  to  the  Palestinian  question.  We  abide  by 
that  position,  which  is  consistent  with  international 
legitimacy  and  morally  just.  However,  Israel  rejects 
such a just settlement.
40/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
The State of Qatar will spare no effort in providing 
various forms  of  material and political support to  the 
brotherly Palestinian people and in continuing to work 
with all international actors involved in the Middle East 
peace process so as to overcome the difficulties that are 
obstructing  the  resumption  of  peace  negotiations,  in 
accordance with the terms of reference and resolutions 
of international legitimacy.
end, take all measures necessary to address the grave 
humanitarian  situation  and  facilitate  free  access  for 
humanitarian assistance to all areas of Yemen. In that 
regard, I wish to announce Qatar’s agreement with the 
United Nations to fight cholera in Yemen by supporting 
projects related to combating the causes of the disease 
and to halting its spread. We call upon other countries 
to join us in supporting that vital effort.
After  more  than  seven  years,  the  international 
community  remains  unable  to  find  a  solution  to 
the  worsening  Syrian  crisis  in  all  its  aspects  and 
its  dangerous  consequences.  The  Syrian  people,  in 
addition  to  the  tragedies  they  have  experienced,  are 
concerned and frustrated that the crimes of genocide, 
mass  displacement  and  large-scale  death  in  prisons, 
under torture, could become common practice and that 
the international community might get used to it.
Failure to deter the Syrian regime from committing 
crimes  by  waging  a  war  against  its  own  people,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  failure  to  hold  it  accountable  after 
the  commission  of  such  crimes,  on  the  other,  would 
render  the  provisions  of  international  law  and  human 
rights law devoid of meaning. That would have serious 
consequences  for  the  prevailing  values  of  our  world, 
as it would promote the use of violence as a means of 
suppressing peoples’ aspirations and trampling on the 
rights of citizens and peoples of our region.
We  are  facing  a  humanitarian,  moral  and  legal 
disaster  that  requires  the  international  community  to 
urgently reach a political solution that stops the Syrian 
bloodshed,  fulfils  Syrian  aspirations  to  justice  and 
freedom, maintains Syria’s unity and sovereignty and 
achieves security and stability in Syria and the region, 
in  accordance  with  the  first  Geneva  communiqué 
(S/2012/522, annex) and the relevant Security Council 
resolutions. We emphasize the necessity of abiding by 
international humanitarian law and protecting civilians.
Regarding  the  Yemeni  issue,  we  underscore  that 
the  firm  position  of  the  State  of  Qatar  is  to  remain 
committed  to  the  unity,  independence  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Yemen.  We  call  upon  all  Yemeni  parties 
to achieve national reconciliation and end the conﬂict, 
on the basis of Security Council resolution 2216 (2015), 
the Initiative of the Gulf Cooperation Council and the 
outcomes  of  the  national  dialogue.  From  this  rostrum 
I  appeal  to  States  that  are  active  in  the  international 
community  to  help  the  brotherly  Yemeni  people  to 
overcome current conditions, which we hope will soon 
that  place 
Turning  to  the  Libyan  crisis,  which  has  recently 
witnessed  developments 
the  country’s 
security and territorial integrity at risk, we look forward 
to  the  restoration  of  security  and  stability  despite  the 
tremendous  challenges  facing  our  Libyan  brothers. 
We  note  that  foreign  intervention  in  Libyan  affairs 
further  complicates  the  crisis,  prevents  the  reaching 
of the national consensus that is sought by our Libyan 
brothers and contravenes Security Council resolutions. 
We  reiterate  our  support  for  the  Skhirat  Agreement, 
signed  in  December  2015,  and  all  its  outcomes.  We 
call  upon  all  Libyan  brothers  to  uphold  the  country’s 
national interests and participate in a dialogue, without 
excluding  any  component  of  Libyan  society,  in  order 
to  reach  a  comprehensive  political  settlement  that 
preserves  Libya’s  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity 
and  realizes  the  aspirations  of  its  people  to  security 
and stability.
stability 
and 
restoring 
Turning  to  brotherly  Iraq,  we  once  again  express 
our appreciation for the efforts of the Iraqi Government 
in 
achieving  national 
reconciliation by cooperating with all political parties 
and  components  of  the  Iraqi  society.  We  value  the 
successes and sacrifices of the Iraqi people in the fight 
against  terrorism  and  extremism  in  all  its  forms.  We 
reaffirm our commitment to supporting brotherly Iraq 
in  the  process  of  its  reconstruction  and  development 
and assisting in every effort to seek to ensure its unity 
and sovereignty and enhance its security and stability.
There  is  consensus  that  terrorism  has  become 
one of the most persistent challenges facing the world 
because of the real threat it poses to international peace 
and  security.  We  underline  the  firm  position  of  the 
State of Qatar in rejecting terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations  anywhere  in  the  world,  regardless  of 
reason or pretext. The fight against terrorism is a priority 
of the State of Qatar’s policy at the national, regional 
and international levels. We have developed legislative 
and  institutional  systems,  fulfilled  our  international 
obligations related to the fight against terrorism and its 
18-29769
41/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
financing, and participated in all relevant international 
and regional efforts.
In  our  view, 
the  following  prerequisites  are 
necessary to ensure that the war on terrorism achieves 
its  goal  and  does  not  turn  into  a  self-contained 
struggle.  First,  we  need  international  cooperation  in 
combating  violence  resulting  from  extremism  and 
violence directed against civilians as a form of terror 
and  aimed  at  damaging  civilian  facilities  for  political 
ends.  Those  phenomena  must  be  addressed  firmly 
and rigorously. Secondly, we must unify standards for 
fighting terrorism so that its definition is not selective 
and does not depend on the religious or ethnic identity 
of  the  perpetrator.  Thirdly,  we  must  address  its  root 
causes  and  research  the  political,  social  and  cultural 
backgrounds that contribute to fuelling it while working 
earnestly to achieve the just settlement of outstanding 
issues that give rise to anger and frustration. Fourthly, 
we must avoid giving any partisan connotation to the 
term  “terrorism”  by  tailoring  it  to  fit  into  the  narrow 
interests of some nations and using it to justify tyranny 
and the repression of political opponents, which affects 
the  credibility  of  the  combat  against  terrorism  and 
undermines the international efforts made in that field.
With  that  in  mind,  the  State  of  Qatar  believes 
that  educating  young  people  and  ensuring 
their 
comprehensive participation represents the first line of 
defence for the collective security system, as they are 
an important factor in fighting terrorism and building 
peace  and  stability.  We  have  therefore  committed  to 
educating 10 million children and providing economic 
support to half a million young people in our region. In 
collaboration with the United Nations, we have carried 
out  projects  to  promote  employment  opportunities 
for  young  people  through  capacity-building  and  have 
launched programmes to prevent violent extremism.
Human  development  and 
the  protection  and 
promotion  of  human  rights  are  at  the  forefront  of  our 
priorities.  The  State  of  Qatar  is  pursuing  efforts  at 
the  legislative  and  institutional  levels  to  implement 
its  2030  national  vision,  which  emphasizes  human 
development.  This  month,  the  State  of  Qatar  acceded 
to  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights. The State of Qatar recently 
enacted a law regulating the issue of political asylum in 
the country, following the steps of developed countries, 
and  another  law  granting  the  right  to  permanent 
residence  in  the  State  under  conditions  prescribed  by 
law. It has also decided to invite several international 
human rights organizations to establish regional offices 
in our country.
No one doubts the importance of the development 
of  information  and  digital  technology  and  digital 
means  of  communication.  The  economy  and  day-
to-day  life  would  be  inconceivable  without  them. 
However, a series of recent events in several countries 
have reminded us that new needs are emerging, such as 
the need for freedom of access and the need to protect 
the private lives of citizens from the risk of hacking. It 
also  alerted  us  to  the  cybersecurity  of  nations,  which 
is  a  cross-border  issue  because  of  the  nature  of  the 
technology itself.
Accordingly,  we  must  regulate  how  those  issues 
are  dealt  with  and  control  their  risks  internationally. 
Qatar  and  other  countries  have  suffered  from  digital 
piracy  and  digital  espionage,  which  has  prompted 
us  to  strongly  emphasize  the  issue.  We  are  willing 
to  work  with  United  Nations  bodies  to  devise  legal 
regulations. In that regard, we propose the convening 
of  an  international  conference  to  examine  means  of 
regulation  in  that  area  by  international  law,  and  we 
express our readiness to host such a conference.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Emir of 
the State of Qatar for the statement he has just made.
His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, 
Emir of the State of Qatar, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): On behalf 
of the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome 
to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hassan 
Rouhani, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Rouhani  (spoke 
in  Farsi;  English 
interpretation provided by the delegation): I take this 
42/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
opportunity  to  congratulate  you,  Madam,  on  your 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-third session.
We  have  assembled  here  today  as  the  world  is 
suffering from the recklessness of and disregard by some 
States for international values and institutions. We are 
here because the preservation of interests and security 
in  the  world  in  the  least  costly  manner  is  possible 
only  through  the  cooperation  of  and  coordination 
among  countries.  However,  it  is  unfortunate  that  we 
are  seeing  rulers  in  the  world  who  think  that  they 
can  better  secure  their  own  interests,  and  who,  at 
least in the short term, ride public sentiment and gain 
popular  support  by  fomenting  extremist  nationalism, 
racism  and  xenophobic  tendencies  that  resemble  a 
Nazi  disposition,  while  trampling  global  norms  and 
undermining  international  institutions,  even  through 
preposterous and anomalous acts such as convening a 
high-level meeting of the Security Council.
The illusion that one can aspire to securing greater 
peace  and  security  at  the  cost  of  denying  others  that 
same peace and security should be cast aside once and 
for all. We should not allow any breathing space for or 
the development of a line of thinking that holds others 
to ransom through the artificial creation of insecurity. 
In that regard, confronting multilateralism is not a sign 
of  strength;  rather,  it  is  the  symptom  of  intellectual 
weakness  and  betrays  an  inability  to  understand  a 
complex and interconnected world.
Under  such  circumstances,  the  negligence  or 
inefficacy  of  international  institutions  can  endanger 
world peace. Those seeking dominance and hegemony 
are enemies of peace and are the perpetrators of war. 
The Government of the United States of America — at 
least the current Administration — seems determined 
to render all international institutions ineffectual. That 
Government,  having  withdrawn  from  a  multilateral 
agreement  adopted  by 
in 
contravention  of  the  rules  and  norms  of  international 
law, has invited the Islamic Republic of Iran to bilateral 
talks. The Administration that is inviting Iran to engage 
in talks is not ready to consult its own experts or willing 
to  recognize  the  requirements  of  a  modern  State, 
including the paramount principle of the continuity of 
State responsibility and, therefore, is openly violating 
the State obligations undertaken by its predecessor.
the  Security  Council, 
On  what  basis  and  criteria  can  we  enter  into 
an  agreement  with  an  Administration  that  is  guilty 
of  such  misconduct?  Any  talks  should  take  place 
within the framework and in continuation of the Joint 
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA)  and  Security 
Council  resolution  2231  (2015),  and  not  within  a 
framework of breaching such agreements and reverting 
to the past. It is ironic that the United States Government 
is not even concealing its plan to overthrow the same 
Government that it is inviting to talks.
The approach of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the 
field of foreign policy has been based on multilateralism 
and  compliance  with  the  recognized  principles  of 
international  law.  Our  respect  for  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  long 
and difficult negotiations with the five plus one group, 
which led to the conclusion of the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action, is a clear illustration of that approach.
We  are  pleased  that  the  international  community 
did  not  acquiesce  to  the  United  States  Government’s 
unilateral and illegal withdrawal from the JCPOA and 
adopted  a  categorical  position  vis-à-vis  that  decision. 
The JCPOA was the outcome of more than a decade of 
diplomatic efforts and a period of intensive negotiations 
to  resolve  an  artificial  crisis.  It  was  unanimously 
approved  through  the  adoption  of  Security  Council 
resolution 2231 (2015) and codified into an international 
obligation.  The  resolution  calls  on  all  countries  and 
international and regional organizations to support the 
implementation  of  the  JCPOA  and  refrain  from  any 
actions  that  would  undermine  the  implementation  of 
commitments under the JCPOA.
According 
to  12  consecutive  reports  of 
the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, Iran has thus far 
complied with all of its commitments. However, from 
the very beginning, the United States did not honour its 
obligations.  The  current  Administration,  resorting  to 
flimsy excuses and in open violation of its commitments, 
finally withdrew from the accord. The United Nations 
should  not  allow  its  decisions  to  fall  victim  to  the 
domestic  elections  and  propaganda  games  of  some  of 
its Members and should not allow any Member State to 
dodge the execution of its international commitments.
Moreover, 
the  United  States  also  pressures 
other  countries  to  violate  the  nuclear  accord.  More 
dangerously,  the  United  States  is  threatening  all 
countries 
international  organizations  with 
punishment  if  they  comply  with  Security  Council 
resolution 2231 (2015). It is the first time in the history 
of  the  United  Nations  that  such  a  general  invitation 
and 
18-29769
43/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
to  violate  the  law  has  been  coupled  with  threatening 
law-abiders with punishment. That is not unique to the 
JCPOA; it is a pattern that even applies to the United 
States approach to the International Criminal Court.
We  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  international 
community, the European Union, Russia and China in 
supporting  the  implementation  of  the  JCPOA  and  for 
considering  the  full  realization  of  the  commitments 
stipulated  in  it  a  precondition  for  the  survival  of  that 
significant accomplishment of diplomacy.
Unlawful  unilateral  sanctions  constitute  a  form 
of  economic  terrorism  and  a  breach  of  the  right  to 
development.  The  economic  war  that  the  United 
States has initiated under the rubric of new sanctions 
not only targets the Iranian people, but will also have 
harmful repercussions for the people of other countries. 
Moreover, that war has caused a disruption to the state 
of global trade.
The  Iranian  people  have  demonstrated 
their 
unwavering  resilience  over  the  past  40  years,  despite 
the difficulties and constraints caused by sanctions, and 
have also shown that they can overcome such difficult 
periods.  The  multi-millennial  history  of  our  country 
demonstrates that Iran and Iranians have never broken 
in the face of a storm — not even been bowed.
I state here, in clear, unambiguous terms, that the 
United  States  policy  vis-à-vis  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran  has  been  wrong  from  the  beginning,  and  its 
approach of resisting the wishes of the Iranian people, 
as manifested in numerous elections, is doomed to fail. 
Iran,  with  its  historical  and  civilizational  longevity, 
rich cultural heritage and foremost geopolitical position 
is  an  undeniable  reality.  Policies  of  engagement  and 
cooperation with Iran have produced positive outcomes 
for other nations, as best reflected in Iran’s cooperation 
with friendly countries in the fight against terrorism.
The  United  States  understanding  of  international 
relations  is  authoritarian.  In  its  estimation,  might 
makes  right.  Its  understanding  of  power,  not  of  legal 
and legitimate authority, is reflected in its bullying and 
imposition.  No  State  or  nation  can  be  brought  to  the 
negotiating table by force and, if so, what follows is an 
accumulation of the grapes of wrath in those nations, 
which is later reaped by the oppressors.
We  concur  that  ultimately  there  is  no  better 
alternative  to  dialogue.  However,  dialogue  is  two-
way; it should be based on equality, justice and human 
integrity  and  honour  and  conducted  in  accordance 
with the rules and norms of international law. Security 
Council  resolution  2231  (2015)  is  not  merely  a  piece 
of paper. We invite the United States to return to that 
resolution  and  come  back  to  the  negotiating  table  it 
left.  If  the  United  States  dislikes  the  JCPOA  because 
it is the legacy of its domestic political rivals, then we 
invite it to return to that Security Council resolution. 
We  invite  that  country  to  remain  in  international 
institutions  and  implore  it  not  to  engage  in  imposing 
sanctions. Sanctions and extremism are two sides of the 
same  coin.  Extremism  involves  negating  the  thinking 
of others, and sanctions negate the life and prosperity 
of people.
For  dialogue  to  take  place,  there  is  no  need  for  a 
photo  opportunity.  The  two  sides  can  listen  to  each 
other  right  here  in  the  Assembly.  I  am  starting  the 
dialogue right here and state, in unequivocal terms, that 
the  question  of  international  security  is  not  a  toy  for 
American domestic politics. The United Nations is not a 
part of the United States Administration. Dialogue can 
resume in the Assembly from the same point at which 
it stopped and by the same person who left the dialogue 
table and walked away from the accord. Beginning that 
dialogue  starts  with  the  ending  of  threats  and  unjust 
sanctions  that  negate  the  principles  of  ethics  and 
international law.
Our proposal is clear: commitment for commitment, 
violation for violation, threat for threat and step for step, 
instead  of  talk  for  talk.  What  Iran  is  saying  is  clear: 
no war, no sanctions, no threats and no bullying, just 
acting  in  accordance  with  the  law  and  the  fulfilment 
of obligations. We support peace and democracy in the 
entire Middle East. We consider nuclear knowledge an 
imperative and nuclear weapons prohibited.
As  victims  of  terrorism  in  the  past  and  today, 
we  have  always  been  and  will  always  remain  at  the 
forefront of genuine confrontation of terrorism. Today 
we  mourn  the  martyrdom  of  the  dozens  of  innocent 
people who were murdered on Saturday in cold blood 
by  terrorists  who  shamelessly  accepted  responsibility 
from  a  number  of  Western  capitals  for  their  heinous 
crime  in  interviews  with  Western-based  broadcasting 
outfits that are financed by petrodollars.
We in Iran have unequivocally condemned all acts 
of  terrorism  and  will  continue  to  do  so.  We  welcome 
the  strong  statement  from  the  Security  Council  on 
this  issue.  But  why  can  the  leaders  of  those  terrorist 
44/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
operations, including the organization that has publicly 
claimed  responsibility  for  Saturday’s  crime,  live  and 
operate  freely  in  Western  countries,  and  even  openly 
solicit  funds?  Are  those  activities  not  in  violation  of 
international  counter-terrorism  norms?  Why  have 
the  official  State  financiers  of  anti-Iranian  terrorist 
organizations, with their record of financing Al-Qaida, 
the Islamic State in Iraq and the Sham and the Al-Nusra 
Front, not only been spared any punishment but are also 
supported  and  armed?  If  the  United  States  wants  the 
world’s  public  to  take  its  claim  of  fighting  terrorism 
seriously,  it  is  imperative  that  it  start  a  joint  global 
campaign  to  fight  that  scourge,  irrespective  of  the 
victims or culprits.
In  that  regard,  from  the  very  beginning  of  the 
crisis  in  Syria  we  have  warned  against  any  foreign 
intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of  that  country 
and  the  use  of  unlawful  means,  including  supporting 
extremist and terrorist groups, in order to exert pressure 
on  the  Government  of  Syria.  We  have  consistently 
emphasized that the crisis can be resolved only through 
intra-Syrian dialogue. To that end, the presence of our 
military  advisers  in  Syria  has  been  at  the  request  of 
the Syrian Government, is consistent with international 
law  and  has  aimed  to  assist  the  Syrian  Government 
in  combating  extremist  terrorism.  Iran,  Russia  and 
Turkey,  in  cooperation  with  the  Government  of  Syria 
and  other  Syrian  parties,  have  succeeded  through  the 
Astana  process,  the  third  summit  meeting  of  which 
took  place  in  Tehran  earlier  this  month,  in  playing  a 
positive role and reducing tension in Syria. Their last 
joint  effort  prevented  escalation  and  bloodshed  in  the 
Idlib region.
We have witnessed a tragic humanitarian catastrophe 
in Yemen over the past three years, which has caused 
the destruction of infrastructure, the death  and injury  
of hundreds of thousands of people, the displacement of 
millions of innocent civilians, widespread famine and 
chronic  disease.  Those  inhumane  acts  represent  clear 
examples of crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
The  crisis  in  Yemen  can  be  resolved  only  through 
intra-Yemeni talks and without foreign interference. To 
that end, we are ready to assist in any possible way.
The  most  pressing  crisis  in  the  Middle  East, 
however,  is  the  question  of  Palestine.  The  passage  of 
time  cannot,  and  must  not,  justify  occupation.  The 
innumerable  crimes  of  Israel  against  the  Palestinians 
would  not  have  been  possible  without  the  material 
and  military  assistance  and  political  and  propaganda 
support  of  the  United  States.  Israel,  equipped  with 
a  nuclear  arsenal  and  blatantly  threatening  others 
with  nuclear  annihilation,  presents  the  most  daunting 
threat  to  regional  and  global  peace  and  stability.  The 
abhorrent United States decision to transfer its Embassy 
in Israel to Jerusalem and the recent enactment of the 
racist  Jewish  State  law  are  violations  of  international 
law and norms, as well as unmistakable manifestations 
of apartheid.
The expansion of relations with neighbours and the 
creation  of  a  more  secure  and  more  developed  region 
are among the main priorities of Iran’s foreign policy. 
A few weeks ago Iran, along with the other four coastal 
States  of  the  region,  signed  the  Convention  on  the 
Legal Status of the Caspian Sea, which will strengthen 
good-neighbourliness  and  bring  about  prosperity  and 
progress for all of the coastal States.
We also desire the same relations with our southern 
neighbours  in  the  Persian  Gulf.  We  believe  in  the 
formation  of  a  collective  mechanism  for  the  Persian 
Gulf region, with the presence and participation of all 
regional countries. The security of the Persian Gulf and 
the Strait of Hormuz has always been important for us 
and,  just  as  we  upheld  their  security  during  the  war 
imposed on us by Iraq, we will confront any disruptive 
effort regarding that critical waterway in the future.
We  espouse  a  peaceful  view  on  political  and 
international  issues  and  have  not  sought,  and  do  not 
seek,  war  with  any  country.  Iran  does  not  need  an 
empire. Iran is an empire in terms of civilization and 
culture,  not  through  political  domination.  Iran  has 
served  as  the  link  between  East  and  West  and  will 
continue to do so, remaining a meticulous guardian for 
a world free from violence.
Mr. Boukadoum (Algeria), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
The Islamic Republic of Iran is the same State that 
understood  the  fascist  nature  of  the  Ba’athist  regime 
in  Iraq  before  anyone  else  in  the  world  and  bravely 
resisted  its  aggression  against  us.  We  fought  against 
the Ba’ath Party of Iraq before it occupied Kuwait. The 
Islamic Republic of Iran is the same State that was at 
the forefront of the struggle against Taliban terrorism 
and gave up martyrs in that struggle. We fought against 
Al-Qaida  and  the  Taliban  before  the  attacks  on  New 
York  and  Washington,  D.C.  The  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran is the same State that fought against Da’esh, a fake, 
distorted representation of Islam. We were engaged in 
18-29769
45/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
the fight against Da’esh before its operations in Paris, 
London and Brussels.
Appreciate those historical realities regarding Iran, 
stop imposing sanctions and end extremism. The world 
does not have a better friend than Iran, if peace is what 
it seeks.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hassan  Rouhani,  President  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of the 
Republic of Finland
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President of the Republic of Finland.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Finland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Sauli Niinistö, President of 
the Republic of Finland, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly.
into 
President Niinistö: I wish to start by paying tribute 
to  Secretary-General  António  Guterres  for  his  vision 
in leading the United Nations. Finland wholeheartedly 
supports him in his important task.
My country has always been a strong advocate of 
multilateral  cooperation.  For  Finland,  the  rules-based 
international  order  is  of  fundamental  importance.  At 
home, being able to rely on commonly agreed rules is a 
cornerstone of our own national security and welfare. At 
the global level, common solutions and rules are needed 
to address the most pressing challenges of our time.
Unfortunately,  for  those  of  us  who  believe  in  the 
benefits  of  multilateralism,  there  is  now  reason  to 
be  worried.  The  international  system  that  we  have 
built together is under pressure and its capability and 
credibility are being questioned. We can no longer take 
the  rules-based  order  for  granted.  It  is  our  common 
responsibility to actively defend and develop it.
Finland sees the United Nations as the core of the 
multilateral  system.  The  defence  of  multilateralism 
must  therefore  begin  here.  The  United  Nations  and 
its  Members  need  to  show  their  will  to  act  together, 
not  past  each  other.  We  fully  support  the  Secretary-
General’s ambitious and comprehensive reform agenda. 
Now is the time to implement those reforms. We must 
ensure  that  the  United  Nations  of  the  future  is  more 
transparent, accountable and efficient.
For  the  United  Nations  to  be  credible,  it  has  to 
practice what it preaches. For any organization, every 
single  case  of  sexual  exploitation  in  its  own  ranks  is 
one  case  too  much.  That  is  particularly  true  for  an 
organization  that  stresses  the  importance  of  equality 
and  human  rights.  I  am  proud  to  be  a  member  of  the 
Circle  of  Leadership  on  Preventing  and  Responding 
to  Sexual  Exploitation  and  Abuse,  and  I  welcome  the 
efforts taken to prevent and combat all forms of abuse 
throughout the United Nations system.
The  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations  —  peace 
and  security,  human  rights  and  development  —  have 
stood the test of time. However, we have also discovered 
that many present global challenges do not respect the 
boundaries  among  them.  The  pillars  are  increasingly 
interlinked, as are the challenges themselves. The most 
important achievements of the United Nations system in 
recent years are testimony to that. In that regard, I refer 
to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 
Paris Agreement and the global compact for migration 
and  the  global  compact  on  refugees.  Issues  such  as 
sustainability,  climate  change  and  migration  are  not 
only about development and human rights, but they are 
also essential questions of peace and security.
Climate  change  is  the  prime  example  of  the  need 
for  prompt  global  action.  The  upcoming  report  of 
the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change  will 
further underscore the urgency of our response. It will 
also  show  how  much  remains  to  be  done.  So  far,  the 
voluntary  contributions  from  the  States  parties  to  the 
Paris  Agreement  are  not  enough  to  keep  the  global 
temperature  rise  well  below  2°C.  We  must  do  a  lot 
more, and more quickly.
In  the  North,  we  are  witnessing  how  the  Arctic 
region  is  warming  at  an  alarming  pace.  That  is  not 
just  a  regional  problem,  as  it  poses  a  threat  to  the 
entire  global  climate  system.  One  important  factor  in 
accelerating the melting of sea ice in the Arctic is black 
carbon emissions. Reducing black carbon that lands on 
the  white  ice  would  have  immediate  positive  effects 
in  preventing  melting.  A  commitment  to  curbing 
46/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
those emissions would be a key objective of an Arctic 
summit,  which  Finland,  as  the  current  Chair  of  the 
Arctic Council, is ready to host.
Without  mitigation,  climate  change  will  also  lead 
to a further increase in migration flows. Approximately 
65  million  people  across  the  world  are  already 
displaced,  the  highest  figure  since  the  Second  World 
War. About 100 million people worldwide are in urgent 
need of basic humanitarian assistance, and that number 
is growing. There are no quick and easy solutions, but 
doing  nothing  is  not  an  option.  I  therefore  welcome 
the global compact for migration and look forward to 
participating in the conference to adopt it in Marrakesh 
in December.
Full-scale  wars,  conflicts  of  varying  intensity 
and  breaches  of  international  law  continue  to  haunt 
us. They constantly remind us of the immense human 
suffering  involved.  We,  the  international  community, 
need to remain persistent in our efforts to solve ongoing 
conflicts,  regardless  of  how  deep-rooted  and  long-
lasting they may be.
On  a  positive  note,  we  have  been  encouraged  by 
recent  attempts  to  hold  a  genuine  dialogue  between 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the 
international  community.  The  momentum  to  take 
steps  towards  a  peaceful  Korean  peninsula  should 
be  maintained  and  supported.  A  successful  outcome 
in  that  region  could  also  set  a  powerful  example  for 
non-proliferation and disarmament elsewhere.
Where  peace  has  been  achieved,  the  relevance  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  remains  beyond  doubt. 
But the Blue Helmets will also need to adapt to changing 
realities.  We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  Action 
for  Peacekeeping  initiative  to  make  United  Nations 
peacekeeping more effective.
While  existing  conflicts  need  to  be  solved,  our 
priority  must  be  to  prevent  future  ones.  Finland 
welcomes the efforts to strengthen the United Nations 
conflict-prevention capacity. Mediation is an invaluable 
tool when it comes to conflict prevention. It is vital for 
the  future  of  mediation  that  experience  gained  in  the 
past be passed on to future mediators. It was an honour 
for  my  country  to  host  the  meeting  of  the  Secretary-
General’s High-level Advisory Board on Mediation in 
June.  We  remain  strong  supporters  of  the  mediation 
activities of the United Nations and other actors. Where 
appropriate,  Finland  also  continues  to  offer  its  good 
offices to facilitate concrete discussions among parties, 
from track-two diplomacy to high-level meetings.
Peace and security, human rights and development 
are  not  sustainable  without 
the  participation  of 
women  and  youth.  Female  voices  and  young  voices 
must  be  heard  and  acted  upon.  The  needs  of  women, 
children and youth are still all too often marginalized 
in  peace  talks.  Finland  promotes  the  role  of  women’s 
effective  participation  in  peace  processes  through  the 
Nordic  Women  Mediator’s  Network.  That  and  other 
similar networks provide a useful platform for advocacy 
and self-education. As a HeForShe Impact Champion, I 
highly value those efforts.
As  we  celebrate  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, its importance 
in  the  international  order  deserves  special  attention. 
Human rights not only protect the individual, but they 
also help us to prevent conflicts, build sustained peace 
and speed up development. If we are serious about human 
rights,  then  accountability  mechanisms  for  crimes 
against international law are needed. Perpetrators must 
be  brought  to  justice.  Finland  appeals  to  all  Member 
States  and  the  Secretary-General  to  consistently  keep 
human rights, non-discrimination and gender equality 
at the top of the agenda of the United Nations.
It was with profound sadness that I learned of the 
passing of Mr. Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General 
of the United Nations. His legacy is an inspiration to us 
all.  Like  the  Secretary-General  earlier  today,  I  would 
like to conclude by remembering the following words 
from him:
“More  than  ever  before  in  human  history,  we 
share a common destiny. We can master it only if 
we face it together. And that, my friends, is why we 
have the United Nations”.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Finland for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Sauli  Niinistö,  President  of  the  Republic 
of  Finland,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Federal Republic 
of Nigeria.
18-29769
47/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Muhammadu  Buhari, 
President  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Buhari:  On  behalf  of  the  Government 
and  the  people  of  Nigeria,  I  congratulate  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  well-deserved 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at 
its  seventy-third  session.  As  she  embarks  upon  her 
assignment,  I  would  like  to  assure  her  of  Nigeria’s 
support in no less measure than that which we extended 
to her predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák. 
We  appreciate  his  effective  leadership  of  the  General 
Assembly at its seventy-second session, his dedication, 
commitment and the fairness with which he treated all 
Member States. I also salute our Secretary-General, His 
Excellency Mr. António Guterres, who has steered the 
affairs of the Secretariat with a focused commitment to 
the collective United Nations pursuits of global peace 
and security, equity and justice, inclusiveness, women’s 
empowerment and human rights.
It  is  appropriate  at  this  point  to  remember  with 
deep  sadness  our  late  seventh  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who  passed  away  on  the  eve  of  his 
eighty-second  birthday.  Kofi  Annan’s  significant 
contributions  to  the  work  of  the  Organization  have 
been  acknowledged  in  the  well-deserved  tributes  that 
poured in from around the world following his death. 
We in Africa, while mourning the loss of this great son 
of ours and citizen of the world, take pride in the way 
he  served  humankind  in  a  truly  exemplary  manner. 
He  demonstrated  in  his  calm  but  determined  manner 
the  virtues  of  compassion,  dedication  to  the  cause  of 
justice, fairness and human rights. He was a visionary 
leader who inspired hope, even in the face of the most 
daunting challenges. He devoted his entire life’s career 
to the United Nations and the pursuit of its ideals and 
goals. The world is indeed a better place thanks to his 
exemplary service.
During the past year, the world saw some positive 
results  and  encouraging  signs  from  the  bilateral  and 
multilateral  efforts  of  the  international  community 
in  addressing  conflicts,  crises  and  threats  to  world 
peace.  We  particularly  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
leaders  of  the  United  States,  North  Korea  and  South 
Korea in making headway towards our shared goal of 
a  nuclear-free  Korean  peninsula.  In  that  connection, 
we  acknowledge  the  commitment  to  peace  shown  by 
President  Donald  Trump  and  Chairman  Kim  Jong 
Un  by  initiating  a  historic  summit.  We  urge  them  to 
continue that positive engagement.
Regrettably,  many  of  the  crises  and  threats  to 
peace  and  security  around  the  world,  on  which  we 
debated  last  year  and  several  previous  years,  remain 
unresolved.  In  some  cases,  matters  have  deteriorated. 
The  continuing  plight  of  the  Rohingyas  in  Myanmar, 
the protracted Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the wars in 
Yemen and Syria and the fight against international and 
local terrorism, such as Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab, 
come to mind. The terrorist insurgencies that we face, 
particularly in the Sahel and the Lake Chad basin, are 
partly fuelled by local factors and dynamics, but now 
increasingly  by  the  international  jihadi  movement, 
runaway  fighters  from  Iraq  and  Syria  and  arms  from 
the disintegration of Libya.
Fortunately, the carnage appears to have somewhat 
abated in Myanmar. We commend the United Nations 
for  staying  focused  on  the  situation  of  the  Rohingya 
people in order to bring their suffering to an end and 
hold to account the perpetrators of the atrocious crimes 
committed  against  innocent  and  vulnerable  members 
of  that  community,  including  women,  children  and 
the  elderly.  The 
international  community  should 
strengthen  its  resolve  to  combat  ethnic  and  religious 
cleansing everywhere. We support the United Nations 
efforts  in  ensuring  that  the  Rohingya  refugees  are 
allowed  to  return  to  their  homes  in  Myanmar  with 
security, protection and a guarantee of citizenship. We 
note  the  indication  by  the  Government  of  Myanmar 
of  its  willingness  to  address  those  issues,  and  we 
encourage  it  to  do  so  expeditiously.  In  that  context, 
Nigeria commends the Government and the people of 
Bangladesh  in  particular,  and  all  other  countries  and 
organizations that have contributed to shouldering the 
burden of providing shelter and other vital assistance to 
the Rohingya refugees.
The  carnage  and  the  worsening  humanitarian 
situations in Syria and Yemen continue unabated. But 
the  international  community  cannot  afford  to  give  up 
on the Syrian and Yemeni peoples. We must pursue all 
efforts  to  find  peaceful  negotiated  political  solutions 
to  those  wars,  which  cannot  be  won  by  the  force  of 
arms alone. Regarding Syria, we hope that the United 
48/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
Nations-sponsored  Geneva  process  and  the  Sochi 
initiative, led by Russia, Iran, and Turkey, can advance 
that objective. The international community must keep 
up the pressure to encourage the parties to pursue the 
path  of  dialogue,  negotiations  and  inclusiveness  in 
resolving  their  sectarian  divides  and  bringing  to  an 
end  the  immense  human  suffering  in  Syria,  as  well 
as  in  Yemen.  We  commend  Turkey,  Jordan,  Greece, 
Germany, Italy and France for hosting the millions of 
the refugees fleeing those brutal conflicts.
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  as  grave  as  it 
has  always  been,  is  now  worsened  by  developments 
since  we  last  met  (see  A/72/PV.3).  Nigeria  continues 
to  call  on  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians  to  make 
the necessary compromises in the interests of justice, 
peace  and  security,  in  line  with  numerous  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  applicable  international  law. 
Unilateral,  arbitrary  and 
insensitive  actions  only 
prolong  the  conflict  and  undermine  world  peace  and 
security.  The  deteriorating  humanitarian  situation  in 
Gaza is an appalling result of the unrestrained use of 
power. We urge both parties to re-engage in dialogue 
on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions, 
the  Madrid  principles,  the  Quartet  road  map  and  the 
Arab Peace Initiative, among others. Nigeria reaffirms 
its  unwavering  support  for  a  just  two-State  solution, 
negotiated  without  intimidation  and  with  Israel  and 
Palestine  existing  side-by-side  in  peace  and  security. 
The crises in the Middle East have deep roots and have 
remained  unresolved  for  too  long.  Yet  we  should  not 
fall into self-defeating despair and conclude that they 
are not amenable to solution.
We  should  draw  inspiration  from  the  remarkable 
leadership that motivated Ethiopia and Eritrea to restore 
long-lost  hope  for  peace  between  them,  a  remarkable 
show  of  statesmanship 
that  has  now  galvanized 
neighbouring  countries, 
including  Djibouti  and 
Somalia, to push for peace in the subregion. I believe 
that with hard work, commitment and a disposition to 
compromise and make the necessary sacrifices, peace 
is  achievable  in  the  Middle  East  as  well.  Most  crises 
usually have a variety of festering causes and effects. 
It  is  the  failure  to  address  them  early  and  effectively 
that  lead  to  out-of-control  conflicts.  Addressing  them 
includes  national  and  international  collective  actions 
that have a positive impact on peoples and communities. 
Therefore, “Making the United Nations relevant to all 
people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for 
peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies”,  which 
is the theme for this year’s General Assembly, is very 
apt indeed.
A  topical  consequence  of  the  current  conflicts 
around the world is the irregular migration of affected 
people from the Middle East, Afghanistan and Africa 
to  Europe.  Irregular  migration  entails  huge  avoidable 
loss  of  human  lives,  puts  strains  on  services  in  host 
countries  and  communities  and  fuels  anti-immigrant 
and  racist  sentiments  in  Europe.  That  is  why  we 
welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations 
on  the  first-ever  global  compact  for  safe,  orderly  and 
regular migration. We look forward to its adoption in 
Marrakech  later  this  year.  The  aim  is  to  protect  the 
rights  of  migrants  worldwide  while  addressing  the 
concerns of countries of origin, transit and destination 
alike.  Migration  is  a  constant  in  human  affairs.  We 
in  Africa  are  grateful  to  countries  that  treat  migrants 
with compassion and humanity, notably Germany, Italy 
and  France.  Irregular  migration  is  not  a  consequence 
of conflicts alone, but of the effects of climate change 
and the lack of opportunities at home. Climate change 
remains one of the greatest challenges of our time. Very 
close to us at home, it is our lot in Nigeria, together with 
our  neighbours  around  the  Lake  Chad  basin,  to  live 
with the climate change consequences of a drastically 
shrunken Lake Chad and the parching up of otherwise 
fertile arable lands.
Lake  Chad  was  a  major  source  of  livelihood  for 
the more than 45 million inhabitants of the region. Its 
shrinking has meant the loss of such livelihoods, and 
the  region’s  inhabitants  have  been  impoverished  and 
made  vulnerable  to  the  activities  of  extremists  and 
terrorist groups. The instability caused in the subregion 
has intensified internal displacements, leading, among 
other consequences, to intense economic competition, 
especially  between  farmers  and  herdsmen.  That  is 
why  we  continue  to  call  for  dedicated  international 
engagement to accelerate recovery efforts in the Lake 
Chad basin to address the root causes of the conflicts 
in the region. What is required is continuous and robust 
United Nations cooperation with national Governments 
and  subregional  and  regional  organizations,  such  as 
the  Lake  Chad  Basin  Commission,  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  and  the  African 
Union,  to  enhance  capacity  in  conflict  prevention, 
conflict management and peacebuilding.
With regard to the Lake Chad basin plight, I extend 
our  heartfelt  appreciation  to  the  United  Nations,  the 
Governments of Germany, Norway, the United States, 
18-29769
49/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
Sweden, the United Kingdom and France and a host of 
other  development  partners  for  their  laudable  support 
in  assisting  us  in  addressing  both  the  humanitarian 
challenges  and  the  ongoing  stabilization  drive  in 
the region.
Corruption within countries and the illicit flow of 
funds across national boundaries have a huge negative 
impact on the stability, peace and economic prospects 
of  millions 
in  developing  countries.  Corruption 
significantly  deprives  national  Governments  of 
resources  to  provide  meaningful  livelihoods  for  their 
populations,  who  are  predominantly  young  people, 
thereby  giving  rise  to  more  irregular  migration.  The 
fight  against  corruption  therefore  involves  us  all.  It 
is  in  our  collective  interest  to  cooperate  in  tracking 
illicit  financial  flows, 
investigate  and  prosecute 
corrupt  individuals  and  entities  and  repatriate  such 
funds to their countries of origin. Fighting corruption 
and  resolving 
international  conflicts,  crises  and 
wars;  defeating  terrorism  and  piracy;  curbing  arms 
trafficking and the proliferation of small arms and light 
weapons,  which  fuel  such  conflicts,  in  particular  in 
Africa; stemming irregular migration by addressing its 
root causes; and the many other global challenges we 
are faced with today can be effectively addressed only 
through multilateral cooperation and concerted action.
The only global institutional framework we have to 
address those challenges is the United Nations system. 
That is why we continue to call for the strengthening of 
the Organization to make it more effective by speeding 
up  the  pace  of  progress  towards  its  reform,  including 
that  of  its  principal  organ,  the  Security  Council.  The 
reconstitution of the Council to make it more equitable 
and  more  representative  of  our  global  community  is 
both a political and moral imperative. We believe that a 
reformed Security Council, with expanded membership 
in both the permanent and non-permanent categories, is 
in accord with prevailing international consensus and it 
is in our collective interest to do so. It is high time we 
stop skirting around the issue and establish achievable 
benchmarks and time frames for such reforms.
I  assure  all  members  that  in  such  advocacy 
I  am  only  reflecting  Nigeria’s  deep  and  abiding 
commitment  to  our  Organization  and  its  founding 
principles and goals. From the day we joined in 1960, 
we have contributed our quota to the fulfilment of the 
mandate  of  the  United  Nations.  We  have  been  active 
participants  in  many  Security  Council-  and  African 
Union-authorized  peacekeeping  operations  around 
the world, beginning with the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  in  1960.  Furthermore,  Nigeria  has  always 
mobilized  the  required  human  and  material  resources 
to  achieve  certain  United  Nations  goals,  including 
the  recently  adopted  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development.  We  are  resolute  in  complementing  the 
efforts and examples of the United Nations to promote 
gender equality and youth empowerment as necessary 
pillars for sustainable development.
Without such efforts there can be neither enduring 
peace  nor  security.  As  we  craft  and  implement  our 
national  policies  to  achieve  the  goals  set,  we,  in  the 
spirit of international solidarity, will readily cooperate 
with  other  nations  seeking  to  achieve  similar  goals 
for their own populations to help ensure that no one is 
left behind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal 
Republic of Nigeria, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, 
President of the Republic of South Africa
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South Africa.
Mr. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the 
Republic  of  South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Matamela  Cyril 
Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Ramaphosa:  I  have  the  honour  to 
address  the  General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  as 
President of the Republic of South Africa.
It is nearly a quarter of a century since the founding 
father  of  our  democracy,  President  Nelson  Rolihlahla 
Mandela, stood at this rostrum to declare that
“The  millions  across  our  globe  who  stand 
expectant  at  the  gates  of  hope  look  to  this 
Organization  to  bring  them  peace,  to  bring  them 
50/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
life, to bring them a life worth living.” (A/49/PV.14, 
p. 10)
As  we  mark  the  centenary  of  the  birth  of  this  great 
global  leader,  Nelson  Mandela,  we  are  bound  to  ask 
whether  the  United  Nations  has  met  the  needs  and 
expectations of the millions who stand at the gates of 
hope. We are bound to ask what contribution the United 
Nations has made to a more peaceful, more prosperous 
and more equal world. More important, we are called 
upon to ask — as we did yesterday during the Nelson 
Mandela  Peace  Summit  (see  A/73/PV.5),  which  was 
held here — what the United Nations and the assembled 
global  leadership  must  do  to  secure  lasting  peace, 
reconciliation and stability across the globe.
Allow  me  to  express  the  deep  gratitude  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  South  Africa  to  the 
international  community  for  convening  the  Peace 
Summit to honour the memory of Nelson Mandela and 
advance his legacy. We applaud the political declaration 
of the Summit (resolution 73/1), which recognizes the 
period from 2019 to 2028 as the Nelson Mandela Decade 
of Peace. It reflects a new and sincere commitment by 
the world’s leaders to comprehensively advance peace 
and  security  and  resolve  all  conflicts  and  wars.  To 
succeed in giving effect to that commitment, the United 
Nations must become what billions of people across the 
world want it to be, that is, a representative and truly 
democratic global parliament of the people of the world.
Throughout its seven decades, the United Nations 
has been a source of hope for the oppressed, exploited 
and  poor  around  the  world.  During  the  dark  days  of 
colonialism and apartheid, we drew strength, inspiration 
and  encouragement  from  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Charter in our quest for freedom and self-determination. 
With the support of the United Nations, 24 years ago, 
we  as  South  Africans  were  able  to  bring  an  end  to 
the nightmare of apartheid. Nelson Mandela led us to 
freedom and gave us the great opportunity to transform 
our country. We have now embarked upon a journey of 
transformation  and  are  making  progress  to  deal  with 
the ugly legacy of the past system of apartheid.
Madiba’s vision continues to guide us as we seek 
to  improve  the  lives  of  our  people  in  many  respects, 
among others, by improving educational outcomes for 
our  youth  and  transforming  our  economy,  which  was 
constituted  to  serve  the  interests  of  a  few.  We  have 
started  a  comprehensive  dialogue  on  the  question  of 
land  reform  in  our  country,  which  is  guided  by  our 
Constitution  and  the  rule  of  law,  as  we  seek  ways  to 
ensure that the land is shared among all who work it, 
as set out in our Freedom Charter. Even as our country 
is  experiencing  difficult  economic  challenges,  we 
have  made  progress.  We  are  reforming  our  economy 
and  creating  an  environment  that  is  conducive  to 
investment  and  have  embarked  upon  an  investment 
drive to attract $100 billion in the next five years. To 
the  poor,  vulnerable  and  marginalized,  the  United 
Nations today is a beacon of promise in a landscape of 
doubt. To billions across the world, the United Nations 
is the most powerful instrument we possess to achieve 
a more equal, humane and inclusive world.
There  are  men  and  women  with  dreams  and 
aspirations that transcend the hardships of the present, 
who  want  to  contribute  to  a  new  global  civilization 
defined  by  care,  justice  and  solidarity.  They  want  an 
end to the greed, ignorance and conceit that is driving 
the destruction of our only home, the Earth. It is within 
our ability, as the leaders assembled here today, to forge 
a  more  representative,  equal  and  fair  United  Nations 
that is empowered and equipped to lead the struggle to 
end poverty, unemployment and inequality in the world.
We are a youthful world: more than half the global 
population  is  under  the  age  of  30.  That  is  even  more 
pronounced  on  our  continent  of  Africa,  where  two 
thirds  of  our  people  were  not  yet  born  when  Nelson 
Mandela was released from 27 years in prison. We are 
living in the age of youth. That places a responsibility 
on us as leaders not only to put the interests of young 
people at the centre of our efforts, but also to empower 
women  and  young  people  to  be  more  prominent  in 
directing the course of global affairs. It is young people 
who are fighting the wars that we started. It is women 
who  are  bearing  the  brunt  and  hardships  of  the  wars 
that continue to destroy their lives and their families. 
As we speak, young lives are being lost and futures are 
being destroyed.
There is an urgency to the measures we must take to 
end conflict and war. Not only must we stop the death, 
destruction  and  human  suffering  that  is  visited  daily 
on  millions  of  people,  but  we  must  act  with  purpose 
to  prevent  the  loss  of  another  entire  generation  to  its 
aftermath.  We  must  accept  our  shared  responsibility 
for,  and  our  shared  interests  in,  ending  conflict  and 
using  the  outcomes  of  the  Nelson  Mandela  Peace 
Summit  to  empower  the  United  Nations  to  be  a  more 
effective  instrument  for  mediation,  peacekeeping  and 
post-conflict reconstruction.
18-29769
51/53
A/73/PV.6 
25/09/2018
Our  resolve  to  end  ongoing  conflicts  and  our 
determination  to  root  out  terrorism  must  be  matched 
by action and the appropriate deployment of resources. 
We must act with the same urgency to resolve some of 
the  world’s  most  protracted  and  intractable  disputes. 
The  fact  that  the  people  of  Palestine  have  endured 
occupation  and  suffering  for  nearly  as  long  as  the 
United Nations has existed makes their plight no less 
pressing  and  their  suffering  no  more  acceptable.  We 
must likewise intensify our efforts to secure the right 
of the people of Western Sahara to self-determination 
and full national sovereignty.
One of the greatest challenges to the achievement 
of global prosperity and development is the continued 
exclusion of millions of women and young people from 
meaningful economic participation. It is therefore vital 
that we deploy all the means at our disposal to address 
youth  unemployment  and  ensure  universal  access  to 
educational  opportunities  appropriate  to  the  changing 
world  of  work.  We  need  a  deliberate  programme  to 
ensure  that  the  digital  revolution,  which  carries  such 
great potential for both disruption and empowerment, 
is  effectively  harnessed  to  promote  social  justice  as 
well as human progress. The call to leave no one behind 
requires  that  we  strengthen  the  institutions  of  global 
governance and make them more responsive to the needs 
of young people, particularly in the developing world.
Institutions such as the United Nations, the World 
Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the World 
Trade Organization need to be reshaped and enhanced 
so that they may more effectively meet the challenges 
of the contemporary world and better serve the interests 
of the poor and marginalized around the globe. Reform 
of the United Nations, and of the Security Council in 
particular, must be a priority if we are to give full effect 
to the values and principles enshrined in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
We must resist any and all efforts to undermine the 
multilateral  approach  to  international  trade,  which  is 
essential to the promotion of stability and predictability 
in  the  global  economy.  The  history  of  the  global 
economy informs us that no country can prosper at the 
expense of all others and that no people can hope to live 
in  comfort  and  security  as  long  as  millions  of  others 
languish in poverty.
It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  take  collective 
responsibility  for  the  development  of  all  nations  and 
for  the  improvement  of  the  lives  of  all  people.  That 
responsibility  is  manifest  in  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  the  Paris  Agreement  on 
Climate Change and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on 
Financing for Development, among other agreements. 
Together  they  represent  our  common  commitment  to 
tackle  poverty,  underdevelopment  and  environmental 
degradation. They represent our common commitment 
to  tackle  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis, 
malaria, diabetes and cancer. Our task as global leaders 
is  to  pursue  the  policies  required  to  turn  intent  into 
implementation  and  mobilize  the  resources  needed  to 
turn implementation into impact.
We  have  made  significant  strides  as  Africans  in 
addressing  the  challenges  that  have  confronted  our 
continent for many decades. We continue vigorously to 
implement our commitments set out in the African Union 
Agenda 2063, which is our collective plan as Africans 
to  rid  our  continent  of  under-development,  poverty 
and  conflict  and  to  improve  democratic  governance, 
the rule of law and the promotion of human rights. We 
have recently reached agreement on the establishment 
of an African Continental Free Trade Area, which will 
fundamentally  transform  African  economies,  giving 
rise  to  a  new  industrial  age  on  the  continent.  We  are 
working to silence the guns in Africa by 2020, to bring 
an end to conflicts that have cost the lives of millions 
of  our  people,  displaced  more  and  stunted  economic 
growth and human development.
As  the  continent  with  the  youngest  population 
in  the  world,  Africa  has  the  potential  to  be  the  next 
great  frontier  for  global  growth  and  development. 
With  effective  investment  in  education,  improved 
health  care,  good  governance  and  greater  economic 
integration,  Africa  has  the  potential  to  develop  its 
productive capacity on a scale and at a rate that will lift 
tens of millions out of poverty. The youth of Africa are 
poised to transform their continent.
We  the  people  of  South  Africa  are  committed  to 
being part of that transformation. From the ashes of a 
system  that  was  described  by  the  General  Assembly 
as  a  crime  against  humanity,  we  are  building  a  new, 
democratic  nation,  united  in  its  diversity.  We  are 
working  to  correct  the  injustices  of  our  past  and  to 
build  a  society  that  is  free,  inclusive  and  sustainable. 
We  are  pursuing  an  economic  path  that  draws  on  the 
resources and capabilities of all our people to eradicate 
poverty,  unemployment  and 
inequality.  We  are 
determined through our international relations to be a 
force for progress, good, peace and global equality, and 
52/53 
18-29769
25/09/2018 
A/73/PV.6
will  continue  to  advance  the  interests  of  the  African 
continent and the global South.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  once  more  drawing  on 
the wisdom of Nelson Mandela, who said, “Sometimes 
it  falls  on  a  generation  to  be  great.”  This  is  not  the 
generation  that  will  stand  expectant  at  the  gates  of 
hope; this is the generation that will change the world. 
It  is  the  generation  of  young  people  who  want  to  see 
change. This is their time and this is their age. Let their 
greatness blossom.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Africa for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the 
Republic  of  South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.
The meeting rose at 3.25 p.m.
18-29769
53/53
