United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
27th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Korneliou 
(Cyprus), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the international community in standing up for all 
people, everywhere.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 77
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/334)
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/333 and 
A/73/335)
Draft resolution (A/73/L.8)
The Acting President: I shall now make a statement 
on behalf of the President of the General Assembly.
“This  year’s  debate  on  the  report  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) (see A/73/334) 
coincides  with  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  This  is  therefore  an  important 
opportunity  for  the  international  community  to 
assess the progress enabled by the adoption of the 
Rome Statute and to reflect on the commitment to 
putting an end to impunity for the most serious and 
most heinous crimes.
“The  Rome  Statute  delivered  a  message:  it 
expressed  to  the  people  of  the  world  that  we  will 
support  victims,  that  we  will  fight  impunity,  that 
we  will  respond  to  acts  of  genocide  and  crimes 
against humanity and that we will not tolerate war 
crimes or crimes of aggression. Twenty years later, 
we  would  be  wise  to  recall  the  united  stance  of 
“While  the  primary  duty  to  exercise  criminal 
justice remains with States, the ICC has become an 
indispensable  part  of  the  overall  architecture.  For 
many  around  the  world,  the  very  existence  of  the 
Court is indicative of humankind’s will to protect 
people,  pursue  those  who  would  do  us  harm  and 
protect and promote human rights. In that regard, 
it  is  important  to  recognize  that  the  Court  is 
much more than an instrument of prosecution. Its 
existence also serves as a deterrent and a tool for 
the prevention of international crimes.
“By  extension,  the  Court  thereby  helps  to 
maintain  stable  societies  that  are  able  to  protect 
human rights and pursue sustainable development. 
As  acknowledged  by  the  General  Assembly  in  its 
resolution 68/305, the Court is a core element of 
‘a  multilateral  system  that  aims  to  end 
impunity, promote the rule of law, promote and 
encourage  respect  for  human  rights,  achieve 
sustainable peace and further the development 
of nations’.
“If the wars and atrocities of our history have 
taught  us  anything,  it  is  that  our  shared  peace 
and  prosperity  depend  on  multilateral  efforts  and 
institutions  such  as  the  ICC.  If  we  are  to  protect, 
defend  and  stand  up  on  behalf  of  those  most 
vulnerable  in  their  time  of  need,  we  must  stand 
behind and in support of those very institutions and 
the principles that guide them.”
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-34755 (E)
*1834755*

A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
It  is  now  my  honour  to  invite  Judge  Chile 
Eboe-Osuji,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court, to take the floor.
Judge Eboe-Osuji (International Criminal Court) 
(spoke in French): I am honoured to address the General 
Assembly for the first time in my capacity as President of 
the International Criminal Court (ICC). I have presided 
over  the  Court  since  March,  at  a  time  when  its  daily 
work relates to all stages of proceedings — preliminary 
examinations, 
trials,  reparations  proceedings  and 
appeals  —  while  the  workload  of  the  Prosecutor 
continues to increase.
My report, issued as document A/73/334, has been 
circulated to Member States. It contains a summary of 
the Court’s activities, as well as information relating to 
cooperation between the United Nations and the Court, 
for which we are grateful. While I will not repeat the 
content  of  that  report  in  my  remarks  today,  I  would 
neverthless like to revisit a very important element in 
it that resonates particularly with a recurring theme of 
this session of the General Assembly. We should recall 
that  this  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Statute of the Court, also known as the 
Rome Statute. In my written statement for the Nelson 
Mandela Peace Summit, held in September (see A/73/
PV.4  et  seq.),  I  recalled  that  the  Statute  was  adopted 
20 years ago on the eve of Nelson Mandela’s eightieth 
birthday, on 17 July 1998. The occasion of the twentieth 
anniversary of the Rome Statute compels us to reflect 
on what the conclusion of that Treaty and the resulting 
establishment of the Court, under the auspices of this 
Organization, mean for the world and all humankind.
(spoke in English)
The theme we chose for that reflection is the need to 
go back to basics, which requires that we consider two 
fundamental  questions.  The  first  revisits  the  question 
of why the Rome Statute was adopted. The preamble to 
the  Statute  itself  answers  that  question.  Among  other 
things, it sets out the following apposite declarations, 
namely, that the States parties to the Statute:
“[are]  conscious  that  all  peoples  are  united  by 
common  bonds,  their  cultures  pieced  together  in 
a shared heritage, and concerned that this delicate 
mosaic may be shattered at any time; [are] mindful 
that  during  this  century  millions  of  children, 
women and men have been victims of unimaginable 
atrocities  that  deeply  shock  the  conscience  of 
humanity;  recogniz[e]  that  such  grave  crimes 
threaten the peace, security and well-being of the 
world;  ...  [and  are]  determined  to  put  an  end  to 
impunity for the perpetrators of these crimes and 
thus to contribute to the prevention of such crimes”.
The  second  of  the  basic  questions  on  which  the 
anniversary compels us to reflect is whether our world 
and our civilization have arrived at a stage where the 
legislative concerns that gave impetus to the negotiation 
and adoption of the Rome Statute have now become a 
thing of the past, such that the world no longer needs 
the  Statute  and  the  ICC.  One  of  the  most  highly 
respected African statesmen of our time has answered 
that question in a very straightforward way. As part of 
his own reflections during the commemoration of the 
twentieth anniversary of the Statute in July, Nigeria’s 
President  Muhammadu  Buhari  answered  it  in  these 
words:
“With  the  alarming  proliferation  of  the  most 
serious crimes around the world, the ICC, and all 
that it stands for, is now needed more than ever, in 
ways that were unforeseeable to its founders. The 
ICC may have been created at a time of optimism 
that it would not need to be utilized frequently but, 
unfortunately, the increase in international crimes 
has only increased the Court’s relevance.”
If any one of the legislative concerns that impelled 
the Court’s establishment merits special focus, it is that 
“during this century millions of children, women and 
men have been victims of unimaginable atrocities that 
deeply shock the conscience of humanity”.
Can we be sure that at the close of the twenty-first 
century,  humankind  will  not  be  left  singing  the  same 
sad song if the Rome Statute and the ICC do not remain 
in place and are not supported by all to serve, at least, 
as a note of caution, if not a real obstacle of conscience, 
to those inclined to commit such crimes?
In her opening remarks a month ago, the President 
of  the  Assembly  rightly  reminded  us  that  millions  of 
people around the world are enduring war and violence 
(see  A/73/PV.6).  Indeed,  important  statistics  even 
suggest that there has been an increase in the incidence 
of  war  and  violence  over  the  past  20  years  since  the 
adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  possibly  by  as  much 
as  three  times  or  more.  That  should  trouble  us,  given 
that  armed  conflicts  are  the  most  common  vectors  of 
atrocity crimes, and typically those that take the form 
of  ethnocentric  mass  violence,  sexual  violence  or 
sundry war crimes.
2/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
There  are  many  reasons  to  insist  that  the  mere 
existence  of  a  permanent  judicial  mechanism  for 
accountability  truly  serves  as  an  obstacle  to  the  free 
will  of  those  inclined  to  engage,  even  unwittingly,  in 
conduct  that  creates  conditions  conducive  to  atrocity 
crimes. That modest value alone is sufficient return on 
investment in the ICC.
shock  the  conscience  of  humankind.  For  our  present 
purposes,  let  us  call  such  crimes  by  their  names.  We 
are  talking  about  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity, 
war crimes and the crime of aggression. Those crimes 
blighted  humankind  for  long  periods  of  time  up  until 
the  negotiation  and  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  in 
1998.
Nevertheless,  we  will  continue  to  be  troubled  by 
the  unrelenting  frequency  of  armed  conflicts  in  the 
world. In that respect, not surprisingly, the objectives 
of the United Nations and the ICC remain in harmony. 
They have in common the global effort to protect peace 
and  security  and  human  rights  through  multilateral 
cooperation  and  action, 
the 
international rule of law. His Excellency Mr. Guterres, 
the  Secretary-General,  rightly  called  for  a  renewed 
commitment to a rules-based order in his address to the 
Assembly a month ago (see A/73/PV.6).
in  accordance  with 
On behalf of the interests that the ICC represents, 
it was truly encouraging to hear many representatives 
restate during the general debate that the Court occupies 
a cardinal place in that rules-based order and that every 
effort must therefore be made to protect and support it.
Whenever  a  man  champions  an  important  idea 
with  a  successful  outcome,  we  are  always  quick  to 
affix his name to that idea for eternity by calling him 
its father. We rarely do the same for the many women 
who  championed  some  of  the  ideas  that  have  defined 
human  history.  That  is  perhaps  a  regrettable  case  of 
our  inordinate  preoccupation  with  the  dreams  of  our 
fathers — those elusive men who are often absent from 
our lives for all kinds of reasons that seem important to 
them — and in the process, we take our long-suffering 
mothers  for  granted.  Eleanor  Roosevelt  was  no  less  a 
great  champion  of  the  history  of  human  civilization 
than any man ever was. We should all recognize her as 
the  mother  of  human  rights.  Here  I  quote  her  call  for 
united action to improve the world under the banner of 
the United Nations:
“Our  own  land  and  our  own  flag  cannot  be 
replaced by any other land or any other flag. But 
you can join with other nations, under a joint flag, 
to  accomplish  something  good  for  the  world  that 
you cannot accomplish alone.”
A product of such joint action among nations, the 
ICC was established as a court of last resort, a literal 
instrument of the rule of law. Its mandate is to try those 
who commit some of those unimaginable atrocities that 
We can be even more specific in recalling the history 
of evil in the period leading up to 1998. In that regard, 
let us recall that no fewer than 7,000 Bosnian Muslim 
men  and  boys  were  massacred  in  Srebrenica  in  1995. 
The  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia  pronounced  their  killing  as  amounting 
to  genocide.  The  year  before,  in  1994,  about  800,000 
Tutsis  were  killed  in  the  Rwandan  genocide.  It  is  not 
too  distant  in  memory  for  us  to  recall  that,  50  years 
before, 6 million innocent human beings were killed in 
a genocide in eastern and central Europe because they 
were Jews.
Let us also recall that it was only in the early 1990s, 
shortly  before  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  that 
apartheid — a crime against humanity over which the 
ICC now has jurisdiction — came to an end in South 
Africa. Let us also recall that beginning in 1991, Sierra 
Leone was engulfed by a brutal civil war. In addition 
to rapes, sexual slavery, murders and the conscription 
of  children  into  military  use,  a  particular  brand  of 
cruelty and terror marked that civil war. It involved the 
heartless  amputation  of  human  beings’  arms  by  their 
fellows, leaving the victims with disabling physical and 
mental scars that would last a lifetime. It was a crime 
against  humanity  that  has  left  a  very  visible  scar  on 
that country and on our collective conscience as human 
beings, even today.
We  must  give  due  credit  to  the  joint  action  of 
nations in adopting the Rome Statute in order to have 
in place a permanent mechanism for ensuring eventual 
accountability for those who subject their fellow human 
beings to such cruelty in future. That, and nothing else, 
is the point of the Rome Statute and the ICC.
In  that  and  other  aspects  of  international  law, 
through its common efforts the international community 
has  assumed  responsibility  with  complementary  legal 
structures for human rights and international criminal 
justice.  By  taking  up  the  baton  in  that  way,  there 
has  been  a  correlative  shrinking  of  the  space  for  the 
malevolent  forces  that  would  commit  genocide  and 
other  crimes  against  humanity  without  qualms.  We 
18-34755
3/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
can  readily  appreciate  the  certainty  with  which  those 
forces  would  move  in  and  occupy  the  ground  that 
would be vacated upon any dismantling of the existing 
multilateral  mechanisms  of  international  law  and 
justice. They would be certain to move in, and rapidly.
History  shows  that  the  crimes  over  which  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  has  jurisdiction 
are events that disturb international peace and security. 
Eventually, leaders of other nations inevitably intervene 
with military force to halt the ongoing atrocities, rightly 
compelled by the pangs of their own conscience or out 
of fear or concern as to the threats posed by the events 
to their own national interests.
It is difficult to put it in more eloquent terms than 
Justice Robert H. Jackson of the United States Supreme 
Court did at the end of the Second World War. Members 
will recall that he was both the leading representative 
of the United States at the London Conference of 1945 
and,  later,  the  United  States  chief  prosecutor  at  the 
Nuremberg  Tribunal.  In  a  speech  that  he  gave  to  the 
American Society of International Law in April 1945, 
he said:
“We  have  been  a  freedom-loving  people.  Our 
Constitution and our philosophy of law have been 
characterized by a regard for the broadest possible 
liberty of the individual. But the dullest mind must 
now see that our national society cannot be so self-
sufficient  and  so  isolated  that  freedom,  security 
and opportunity of our own citizens can be assured 
by  good  domestic  laws  alone.  Forces  originating 
outside of our borders and not subject to our laws 
have  twice  in  my  lifetime  disrupted  our  way  of 
living, demoralized our economy and menaced the 
security  of  life,  liberty  and  property  within  our 
country.”
Justice  Jackson  spoke 
from 
lived 
through 
the  perspective 
of  someone  who  had 
two  world 
wars  —  something  that  none  of  us  in  this  Hall  can 
claim — not only for himself but for every citizen around 
the world. In those very words, in 1945 Justice Jackson 
bore living witness to precisely the same phenomenon 
expressed in the preamble to the Rome Statute in 1998, 
that  “all  peoples  are  united  by  common  bonds,  their 
cultures pieced together in a shared heritage, and ... this 
delicate mosaic may be shattered at any time”.
However, the way in which the man-made turmoil 
of  foreign  lands  affects  us  at  home  need  not  involve 
the  tragedy  of  our  own  military  intervention,  which 
involves  sacrificing  the  lives  and  limbs  of  the  young 
men and women who are sent to engage in that military 
intervention as soldiers. It is enough that such turmoil 
would generate refugee crises from which no nation can 
truly isolate itself either physically or morally. For that 
reason, Justice Jackson rightly concluded,
“Awareness of the effect of war on our fundamental 
law should bring home to our people the imperative 
and practical nature of our striving for a rule of law 
among the nations.”
As  multilateral  institutions,  this  organ  and  the  ICC 
stand precisely for such rule of law among nations.
conflicts 
In  many 
international 
involving 
interventions to halt mass atrocities that have already 
commenced,  as  was  the  case  in  the  First  and  Second 
World  Wars  and  in  many  other  international  armed 
conflicts since then, we are bound to acknowledge the 
salutary role that military intervention can play to the 
extent that it is consistent with the accepted principles 
of  international  law,  at  the  least,  if  not  structures 
of  international  security.  But  it  is  a  grave  mistake  to 
dismantle  existing  international  structures  of  human 
rights  and  the  rule  of  law  in  the  uncertain  hope  that 
military  intervention  alone  is  all  that  we  can  rely  on 
and nothing else.
Even  when  it  manages  to  stop  aggression  and 
atrocities already in progress, military intervention has 
clear limitations. As noted earlier, it costs human lives 
to stop such aggression and atrocities. Another obvious 
limitation is the fact that military intervention came far 
too late, if at all, for the victims of all the incidents of 
genocide mentioned above — the millions of European 
Jews, the hundreds of thousands of Rwandan Tutsis and 
the thousands of Bosnian Muslim men. That is also the 
case for the victims of the various occurrences of crimes 
against  humanity  too  numerous  to  mention  —  from 
Sierra  Leone  to  South  Africa  and  a  great  many  other 
places.
It is also axiomatic that the administration of post-
conflict  justice  is  not  quite  the  bailiwick  of  military 
intervention.  After  the  guns  have  gone  silent,  the 
victims’ cries for justice and reparation will still fill the 
air to touch our conscience. We therefore need a strong 
international structure of justice to attend to the matter 
of  justice.  The  subject  of  the  administration  of  post-
conflict justice brings me to a certain misunderstanding 
that is often expressed as a concern in relation to the 
jurisdiction  of  the  ICC.  The  concern  is  that  of  the 
4/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
mistaken  claim  that  the  ICC  is  a  usurper  of  national 
sovereignty. Justice Jackson again spoke about such a 
concern in that speech in 1945.
emotional 
times 
in 
“Governments 
are 
particularly susceptible to passionate attack in which 
this emotion is appealed to, sometimes crudely and 
sometimes by more sophisticated formulae such as 
impairment  of  sovereignty,  submission  to  foreign 
control, and like shibboleths.”
Any  fear  that  the  ICC  is  a  usurper  of  national 
sovereignty  proceeds  from  a  clear  misunderstanding 
of the nature of the ICC’s jurisdiction. That fear may 
indeed be implicated in the reluctance of some States 
to  ratify  the  Rome  Statute,  as  has  been  expressed 
around  the  world  where  ratification  has  not  yet  taken 
hold. However, I want to restate and emphasize that the 
ICC does not usurp or undermine national sovereignty. 
On the contrary, the nature of its jurisdiction does the 
very opposite. It underscores national sovereignty. The 
ICC  is  unusually  deferential  to  national  sovereignty, 
far more so than any other known order of alternative 
jurisdiction for the administration of criminal justice.
In  that  regard,  I  must  underscore  the  doctrine  of 
complementarity as the modulating feature of the ICC’s 
jurisdiction. In substance, the idea of complementarity 
means what the word says. It means that the ICC is a 
court of last resort. As such, it intervenes only to assist 
national jurisdictions in their needful role to ensure the 
greatest level of justice for purposes of accountability 
when serious atrocities under its jurisdiction have been 
committed.
Notably, the jurisdictions of the other international 
criminal  tribunals  were  or  are  primary  relative  to 
national jurisdictions. The Statutes of the International 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia,  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  the  Special  Court  for 
Sierra  Leone  and  the  Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon 
gave those tribunals primacy of jurisdiction in relation 
to  national  courts.  In  contrast,  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
ICC is not primary in relation to national jurisdictions. 
Indeed,  it  is  important  also  to  keep  in  mind  that  the 
ICC’s  jurisdiction  is  not  nearly  as  assertive  as  the 
ordinary jurisdiction of the courts of a foreign country 
on  the  territory  of  which  a  citizen  of  another  State 
commits a crime. In that regard, it may be noted that 
even  in  the  status  of  forces  agreements  of  all  nations 
it  is  a  generally  accepted  norm  —  expressed  in  a 
standard clause — that the courts of the country where 
foreign  troops  are  stationed  enjoy  primacy  of  general 
criminal jurisdiction when a foreign soldier commits a 
crime within that territory. The ICC does not have such 
primacy of claim to jurisdiction. On the contrary, under 
the Rome Statute, the primary jurisdiction belongs to 
the State with the closest sovereign connection to the 
situation under consideration. It is only when that State 
proves unable or unwilling to do justice in the exercise 
of  that  primary  jurisdiction  that  the  ICC  is  legally 
entitled to intervene.
The essence of the doctrine of complementarity is 
therefore that justice must not be a neglected element 
in  the  area  of  the  sovereignty  of  nations.  However, 
one  may  ask,  beyond  the  elegant  terminology  of 
complementarity,  what  it  really  means  in  practical 
terms. That is a very important question. The answer 
is  quite  simple.  First,  we  will  accept  that  anyone  can 
violate  human  rights  but  not  everyone  can  do  justice. 
That  is  to  say,  while  it  is  extremely  easy  to  violate 
human  rights  anywhere  in  the  world,  criminal  justice 
systems  throughout  the  world  are  not  all  equally  able 
to administer justice for the purposes of accountability 
and  reparation,  according  to  the  generally  accepted 
international  standards.  In  that  connection,  one  may 
think  of  the  average  failed  State  where  humankind  is 
held  hostage  to  the  daily  fear  of  rampant  lawlessness 
and violent tyranny.
The following is a prime example. Somewhere in our 
world, an inferno of human-to-human violence engulfed 
a beautiful country in April 1994. However, it did not 
occur without warning. The internal circumstances of 
that country had in fact been simmering in the direction 
of  that  event  long  before  April  1994.  There  had  been 
earlier periods of intermittent violence and other kinds 
of systematic persecution in which human beings were 
killed  with  impunity  on  account  of  their  ethnicity. 
Exactly  one  year  before  April  1994,  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  extrajudicial,  summary  or  arbitrary 
executions conducted a mission to that country and duly 
submitted  his  findings  to  the  Commission  on  Human 
Rights, as it was then called. Concerning that country’s 
pre-conflict  judicial  system,  the  Special  Rapporteur 
wrote as follows:
“It is the serious failings of this system that have 
made possible the impunity enjoyed by the persons 
responsible  for  the  killings.  The  system’s  failure 
to  function  has  been  noted  on  many  occasions, 
notably  by  [a]  national  commission 
...  which 
reached  the  conclusion  that  many  courts  were  in 
18-34755
5/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
a  state  of  paralysis.  This  state  of  affairs  is  partly 
attributable to the lack of resources available for the 
administration of justice, but chiefly to the lack of 
political will shown by the authorities in bringing 
guilty  parties  to  justice”  (E/CN.4/1994/7/Add.1, 
para.47).
To  varying  degrees,  that  is  the  story  of  many 
countries  with  chronic  histories  of  human  rights 
violations.  For  such  States,  the  value  of  the  ICC  as  a 
viable  backup  system  of  justice  is  all  too  apparent. 
We  should  not  overlook  the  fact  that  in  the  country 
indicated  above,  the  number  of  legal  professionals, 
including judges and lawyers, was reduced to less than 
300 in the killings of the many hundreds of thousands 
that  occurred  in  1994.  How  could  such  a  country  be 
expected to administer justice meaningfully in its post-
conflict phase?
The  example  of  that  country  underscores  the 
importance of the ICC’s complementary jurisdiction in 
the most practical terms, in most cases. In that regard, 
in the ICC we have a permanent institution of its kind 
that  is  in  place  and  readily  available  to  be  engaged 
without  delay,  thereby  obviating  the  need  for  ad  hoc 
solutions, which may never materialize for a great many 
reasons. But even for more able States, the ICC remains 
valuable not as a usurper of sovereignty but as a mirror 
of conscience. Such is the case where there may be a 
lack  of  political  will  to  address  the  needs  of  justice 
behind  the  veil  of  sovereignty.  In  that  connection,  it 
is  noted  that  war  crimes  occur  in  every  war  and  the 
culprits  can  be  among  the  rank  and  file  of  the  most 
disciplined and professional armed forces in the world 
despite  the  best  efforts  of  their  commanders,  acting 
with  unimpeachable  good  faith.  In  his  war  memoirs, 
a  well-known  American  general  of  the  Second  World 
War stated that axiom in other terms in a conversation 
that he had with the Grand Vizier of Morocco during 
the Second World War.
“I  told  him  that,  in  spite  of  my  most  diligent 
efforts, 
there  would  unquestionably  be  some 
[soldiers who would commit rape], and I should like 
to have the details as early as possible so that the 
offenders could be properly hanged.”
The  Rome  Statute  does  not 
require  States 
to  hang  their  soldiers  at  all  —  let  alone  to  do  so 
“properly”  —  when  they  commit  rape  or  other  war 
crimes during armed conflicts. The requirements of the 
Rome Statute are more modest and far more humane. It 
requires only that suspects of war crimes be prosecuted 
and  punished  properly.  The  ICC  would  remind  able 
States  to  do  just  that,  because  they  can.  Failing  that, 
the ICC would exercise jurisdiction as a matter of last 
resort.  The  ability  of  States  engages  their  duty  to  do 
justice,  not  to  ensure  impunity  or  immunity  for  their 
citizens. There is no usurpation of sovereignty in that.
In  that  connection,  I  turn  again  to  the  very 
thoughtful  observations  of  Justice  Jackson  in  the 
following words:
“It  is  futile  to  think  ...  that  we  can  have  an 
international  law  that  is  always  working  on  our 
side.  And  it  is  futile  to  think  that  we  can  have 
international  courts  that  will  always  render  the 
decisions  we  want  to  promote  our  interests.  We 
cannot  successfully  cooperate  with  the  rest  of 
the world in establishing a reign of law unless we 
are  prepared  to  have  that  law  sometimes  operate 
against what would be our national advantage.”
Those are wise words. The only revision that may 
be  necessary  is  to  say  that  when  international  law 
operates to make our world a better place for humanity 
in the long run, it would have worked to “our national 
advantage”, although it may not seem like it in the short 
run.
(spoke in French)
Since  most  of  my  remarks  have  been  devoted  to 
recalling  the  fundamental  issues  that  underpin  the 
Court’s mandate and existence, let me once again refer 
members of the Assembly to the written report of the 
Court on its activities, which has been circulated in the 
six official languages of the United Nations. However, 
this document only scratches the surface of the wealth 
of judicial and investigative activities of the Court in the 
period covered by our report. For instance, in addition 
to  the  many  situations  and  cases  in  the  preliminary 
review, investigation, pretrial, trial and appeal phases, 
the Court is now increasingly engaged in the reparations 
phase of proceedings, also involving the important role 
of the Court’s Trust Fund for Victims. That underlines 
the prominent position that victims hold in the system 
created by the Rome Statute. As the report makes clear, 
the cooperation of States as well as the United Nations 
and other organizations remains critically importanto to 
the Court’s ability to carry out its mandate effectively.
6/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
(spoke in English)
Earlier,  I  recalled  that  a  primary  moral  impetus 
for  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  20  years  ago 
was  the  horrifying  history  of  the  twentieth  century, 
during  which  millions  of  children,  women  and  men 
were  victims  of  unimaginable  atrocities  that  deeply 
shocked the conscience of humankind. The Holocaust, 
the Rwandan genocide and the Srebrenica massacre are 
examples of such unimaginable atrocities. The ICC is 
one  real  structure  that  we  now  have  to  try  those  who 
aim to commit such crimes, in hopes of preventing their 
recurrence in future. In this regard, I cannot but once 
again invoke the words of President Buhari of Nigeria 
on  the  occasion  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
Rome Statute:
“The  Rome  Statute  created  more  than  a  court; 
it  created  the  outline  for  a  system  of  justice  for 
horrific crimes rooted first in national courts doing 
their  job,  and  where  they  fail  to  do  so,  the  ICC 
stepping in only as the court of last resort.”
I  urge  the  Assembly  to  make  the  ICC  stronger  in 
every way that it can. Do not allow it to be weakened. I 
quote President Buhari one more time:
“I urge all States that have not yet done so to accede, 
as a matter of deliberate State policy, to the Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court so that 
it can become a universal treaty.”
Before  concluding,  I  want  to  recall  the  famous 
words  of  Edmund  Burke  to  the  effect  that  all  that  is 
necessary  for  evil  to  prevail  is  for  good  men  to  do 
nothing. However, I must revise those words to say this: 
all that is necessary for evil to prevail is for good men 
and women to refrain from doing all that is possible and 
necessary for them to do to prevent such evil. It is both 
necessary and possible to strengthen the ICC, for that is 
to strengthen the wall of conscience and of international 
law against unimaginable atrocities that deeply shock 
the  conscience  of  humankind.  Whenever  we  think  of 
human history as also being a history of unimaginable 
atrocities that shock the conscience of humankind, let 
us also always remember the wise words attributed to 
Eleanor Roosevelt: “It is better to light a single candle 
than to curse the darkness.” The ICC was such a candle 
when  it  was  lit  20  years  ago.  It  behooves  all  of  us  to 
keep that candle lit.
A/73/PV.27
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Mexico to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.8.
Mr.  Sandoval  Mendiolea  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  This  debate  is  framed  in  the  context  of  the 
commemoration  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute.  It  is  about  20  years  of 
collective  efforts  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and  to 
prevent,  investigate  and  sanction  the  worst  atrocities 
that humankind has ever witnessed.
Today, as it did 20 years ago, Mexico reiterates its 
commitment  to  international  criminal  justice  and  to 
strengthening the system created by the Rome Statute 
with  a  view  to  preventing  the  perpetrators  of  the 
most  serious  crimes  affecting  the  entire  international 
community from enjoying impunity. That commitment 
is reflected practically in our active involvement in the 
activities of the International Criminal Court. As a State 
party to the Statute since 2006, Mexico participates in 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties,  including  through  its 
current membership of the Bureau, its chairship of the 
Working Group on Amendments of the aforementioned 
Assembly,  which  I  have  the  honour  of  chairing,  and 
its  facilitation  of  Cluster  II  of  the  Study  Group  on 
Governance. In addition, Mexico promotes the effective 
consolidation  of  the  international  criminal  justice 
system  created  by  the  Statute  in  various  multilateral 
and regional forums.
itself  but 
include 
the  Court 
Our  efforts  are  not  limited  to  supporting  and 
strengthening 
the 
dissemination  of  the  content  of  the  Rome  Statute  and 
developments in international criminal justice drawing 
from  the Statute itself.  In this  context,  and  as  part  of 
the  commemoration  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  Statute,  together  with  the  National  Commission 
of  Superior  Courts  of  Justice  of  the  United  Mexican 
States, Mexico’s Ministry for Foreign Affairs organized 
a  series  of  six  training  courses  for  magistrates  and 
judges of the different judicial regions of the country 
in order to disseminate the obligations that derive from 
the  Rome  Statute.  In  total,  more  than  500  judges  and 
magistrates were trained on issues such as the adoption 
of the Statute, its contents, its scope, its incorporation 
into national legislation, the jurisprudence of the ICC 
and judicial cooperation, among other topics.
Over  the  past  year,  in  which  there  have  been 
significant challenges for both the Court and the States, 
the  Court  has  made  significant  progress.  Special 
18-34755
7/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
mention should be made of the fact that on 17 July the 
jurisdiction of the Court on the crime of aggression was 
activated. That historic event, finally, is a culmination 
of  the  system  envisaged  in  Rome  20  years  ago  and 
contributes  significantly  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
regime of the Charter of the United Nations with respect 
to  the  prohibition  of  the  use  of  force  in  international 
relations.
With  regard  to  the  issues  of  the  Court’s  judicial 
practice, today we are looking at such relevant issues 
as cooperation between the States and the Court, their 
compatibility  with  other  international  standards,  the 
interpretation  of  the  substantive  obligations  derived 
from  the  Statute,  and  the  scope  of  the  jurisdiction  of 
the Court in situations that involve both States that are 
party to the Court and States that are not. A successful 
resolution  of  these  issues  will  result  in  significant 
contributions  to  the  development  of  contemporary 
international  criminal  law,  both  substantively  and 
procedurally.
We  welcome  the  inclusion  in  the  report  of  the 
Court (see A/73/334) of specific proposals and concrete 
actions to strengthen the international criminal justice 
system. We want to highlight three in particular.
First,  we  note  with  satisfaction  the  Security 
Council’s  holding  of  an  Arria  Formula  meeting  on 
relations between the Council and the Court, in which 
we  discussed  in  depth  the  need  for  the  Council  to 
effectively  follow  up  on  referrals  that  it  makes  to  the 
Court, particularly when the Court has determined that 
there  is  a  lack  of  cooperation  on  the  part  of  a  State. 
We also discussed the need for permanent members to 
abstain from exercising their veto right when atrocious 
crimes  are  committed,  as  proposed  in  the  initiative 
presented jointly by Mexico and France.
Secondly, we highly value the Court’s interaction 
with other organs of the United Nations system and the 
conclusion of agreements and commitments that enable 
collaboration  with  other  bodies,  such  as  the  letter  of 
intent signed between UNESCO and the Prosecutor of 
the Court on protecting cultural heritage from attacks 
in  situations  of  conflict.  Such  agreements  prevent 
duplication of effort and enhance the capacity of each 
institution to fulfil its mandates.
Thirdly, Mexico appreciates being able to use the 
platform provided by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  especially  Sustainable  Development 
Goal 16, to include issues related to the Rome Statute 
in programmes for judicial reform and the training of 
legal professionals and others responsible for enforcing 
the law, with the support of the United Nations.
Despite the advances to which we have referred, it 
is undeniable that we are witnessing an era in which the 
world  is  facing  an  erosion  of  multilateralism  and  the 
rules-based global order. The establishment of the rule 
of law, built on a solid legal foundation and supported 
by  international  organizations,  has  been  the  result  of 
many decades of work by the international community 
as a whole.
The path towards the consolidation of international 
criminal law and the establishment of a permanent and 
nearly universal International Criminal Court has been 
even  more  dramatic  and  difficult.  Behind  the  Court, 
there  are  stories  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against  humanity,  as  well  as  acts  of  aggression  and, 
above all, the pain and lives of billions of victims. It is 
to them, the victims of international crimes of the past, 
but above all of the present, that we have the moral and 
historical obligation to fight against impunity through 
the defence of international accountability mechanisms. 
In any debate on the International Criminal Court we 
must therefore always keep in mind the values we are 
defending and that are at stake.
With  all  that  in  mind,  Mexico  has  the  honour  to 
present once again to the General Assembly the draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/73/L.8,  which 
we  hope  will  be  adopted  once  again  without  a  vote. 
In spite of the differences that exist between Member 
States with respect to this institution, today the General 
Assembly, in paragraph 8 of the draft resolution before 
us, once again
“[a]cknowledges  the  role  of  the  International 
Criminal Court in a multilateral system that aims 
to end impunity, promote the rule of law, promote 
and  encourage  respect  for  human  rights,  achieve 
sustainable  peace  and  further  the  development  of 
nations,  in  accordance  with  international  law  and 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations”,
This is the message that must resonate throughout 
the world. It is what moves us to continue to support, 
strengthen,  promote  and  perfect  the  International 
Criminal Court.
8/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
Mr. Petersen (Denmark): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the five Nordic countries, Finland, Iceland, 
Norway, Sweden and my own country, Denmark.
Let me start by thanking the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) for its annual report to the United Nations 
(see A/73/334). I would also like to thank Judge Chile 
Eboe-Osuji,  President  of  the  ICC,  for  his  thorough 
briefing on the main issues of the report and for putting 
the  work  of  the  ICC  into  a  broader  context.  We  fully 
subscribe to his final assertion that it is both necessary 
and possible to strengthen the ICC.
At  its  twentieth  anniversary,  the  ICC  remains  an 
essential institution, not only for promoting respect for 
international  criminal  justice  but  also  for  advancing 
post-conflict  peacebuilding  and  reconciliation.  The 
Court is a fundamental part of a rules-based international 
order and the centrepiece for accountability for the most 
serious crimes in international law. As we recognize its 
importance as a permanent, independent and impartial 
criminal  court,  we  also  stress  that  this  is  a  crucial 
moment for all of us to speak up for the Court and its 
mandate  to  provide  justice  to  victims  of  international 
crimes.
The desire to hold perpetrators of the most serious 
crimes to account is shared by States all over the world. 
The success of the Court depends on cooperation with 
other stakeholders, and many States and international 
organizations  provide  important  contributions  to  the 
Court.  However,  it  is  a  continued  cause  for  concern 
that the number of outstanding arrest warrants remains 
high.  We  strongly  urge  all  States  to  cooperate  fully 
and effectively with the Court, in line with the Rome 
Statute and all applicable Security Council resolutions.
justice  for  victims 
corresponds  with  the  reach  of  its  jurisdiction.  The 
Nordic  countries  continue 
to  support  and  work 
diligently  for  universal  membership  of  the  ICC.  The 
ICC  needs  more  States  parties,  not  fewer.  We  stand 
ready for a constructive discussion about concerns that 
some States parties may have and encourage and invite 
States  parties  with  these  concerns  about  the  Court  to 
seek solutions within the framework and fundamental 
principles of the Rome Statute. Continued dialogue is 
of key importance.
The  Court’s  promise  of 
Let  me  in  this  forum  make  particular  note  of  the 
ongoing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  ICC  as  described  in  the  report.  We  share  the 
Court’s  strong  appreciation  of  the  crucial  support 
and  cooperation  of  the  senior  leadership  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  welcome  the  ongoing  high-level 
consultations between the principals of the Court and 
senior  United  Nations  officials.  This  dialogue  also 
sets  a  course  for  more  concrete  areas  of  cooperation, 
including a stronger cooperation at the field level and 
supportive  policy  statements  from  relevant  United 
Nations bodies.
Enhanced  cooperation  between  the  Court  and 
the Security Council is still called for. This is true in 
particular  in  cases  of  non-cooperation  with  the  ICC 
as  well  as  for  strengthened  follow-up  of  situations 
referred  to  it  by  the  Security  Council.  We  also  note 
with great concern that the Security Council has been 
unable  to  refer  the  situation  in  Syria  to  the  ICC,  and 
we strongly urge members of the Council to continue 
efforts in this regard. Specifically, with respect to the 
situation  in  Syria,  the  Nordic  countries  will  continue 
to support the work of the International, Impartial and 
Independent Mechanism to Assist in the Investigation 
and  Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  the  Most 
Serious  Crimes  under  International  Law  Committed 
in  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  since  March  2011.  We 
encourage others to do the same.
The  situation  in  Myanmar,  and  in  particular  the 
reported gross violations of international human rights 
law and international humanitarian law that have taken 
place  in  Rakhine  state,  is  a  cause  for  great  concern. 
Earlier  this  autumn,  as  an  important  step  towards 
accountability,  the  Human  Rights  Council  decided 
to  establish  an  independent  mechanism  to  collect, 
consolidate, preserve and analyse evidence of some of 
the most serious international crimes and violations of 
international law that have been perpetrated since 2011 
in Myanmar, and to prepare files in order to facilitate 
and  expedite  future  fair  and  independent  criminal 
proceedings.  However,  a  referral  by  the  Security 
Council  remains  the  most  robust  means  of  achieving 
accountability in Myanmar.
The  full  realization  of  the  rights  of  victims  is  an 
important aspect of the continued success and relevance 
of the Court. We commend the important work of the 
ICC Trust Fund for Victims. We note with appreciation 
its  work  in  providing  support  and  rehabilitation  to 
victims of sexual and gender-based crimes. The Nordic 
countries have consistently supported the Trust Fund, 
and we encourage States and other entities to contribute 
to it as well.
18-34755
9/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
In  order  for  the  Court  to  be  able  to  carry  out  its 
mission  in  the  most  efficient  way,  it  must  also  be 
properly funded. The Court’s budget will be dealt with 
in  the  Assembly  of  the  States  Parties  later  this  year, 
but  we  want  to  underline  the  worldwide  activities  of 
the Court, as reflected in its report. It is our common 
responsibility  to  ensure  that  the  Court  has  sufficient 
resources to carry out its important mandate in a time of 
increasing demand. Likewise, it is the obligation of the 
Court to ensure its effective and efficient functioning. 
We  also  stress  the  importance  of  upholding  and 
strengthening  governance  standards  and  ensuring  the 
proper investigation of alleged misconduct.
We welcome the decision of the Assembly of States 
Parties last year whereby the Court’s jurisdiction over 
the  crime  of  aggression  was  activated  as  of  17  July 
2018, and we are pleased that the decision was taken by 
consensus. Let me conclude by renewing our pledge that 
the Nordic countries will remain staunch supporters of 
the ICC. We are committed to continuing to work for 
the Court’s effectiveness, independence and integrity.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Chaboureau  (European  Union):  I  have  the 
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
and  its  member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, 
Serbia  and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization 
and Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic 
of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement.
We  would  like  to  thank  Judge  Chile  Eboe-Osuji, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
for  his  comprehensive  briefing.  We  also  thank  the 
International Criminal Court for its annual report to the 
United Nations, which covers the period from 1 August 
2017 to 31 July 2018 (see A/73/334) and details what is 
described as a time marked by significant developments 
for the ICC.
justice 
International  criminal 
is  not  only  a 
powerful deterrent to future violations of international 
humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  it  is  most  of  all 
instrumental in achieving accountability and sustainable 
peace.  Past  experience  has  shown  that  injustice  and 
impunity  are  the  main  obstacles  to  healing  the  deep 
wounds in societies caused by the most serious crimes 
and that they create fertile ground for the recurrence of 
conflict.  The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
see  the  International  Criminal  Court  as  an  essential 
institution  for  promoting  a  rules-based  global  order 
to  fight  against  impunity  and  achieve  justice  for  the 
victims  of  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to  the 
international  community  as  a  whole  when  that  is  not 
possible at the national level.
to 
The  European  Union  expresses  its  unwavering 
support 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  as 
was  recently  reconfirmed  in  the  European  Council 
conclusions  of  16  July  2018  on  the  occasion  of  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome 
Statute. The European Union has repeatedly affirmed 
its  strong  belief  in  the  Court’s  legitimacy  and  its  full 
confidence  in  the  impartiality  and  independence  of 
its  judges  and  Prosecutor  in  the  performance  of  their 
functions, as stipulated respectively in articles 40 and 
42 of the Rome Statute.
The  European  Union  will  continue  to  affirm  its 
support for the ICC in multilateral forums and bilateral 
dialogues.  The  European  Union  will  also  continue  its 
consistent  political,  financial  and  technical  assistance 
to the Court. The effective functioning of the ICC and 
the promotion of its independence are the best ways to 
strengthen its credibility and legitimacy and protect it 
from any outside interference.
The  workload  of  the  Court  remains  heavy.  Some 
11 situations are under investigation by the Prosecutor, 
nine preliminary examinations are being conducted and 
three trials are ongoing. During the reporting period, the 
Court also carried out a significant number of missions 
to  several  countries  worldwide  in  the  framework  of 
their  investigations  or  preliminary  examinations.  We 
note  the  important  judicial  developments  in  terms  of 
fulfilling  the  Court’s  mandate  during  the  reporting 
period, in particular the opening of two new preliminary 
examinations  of  the  situations  in  the  Philippines  and 
in  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  the  issuing 
of two new arrest warrants, and the handing down of 
several important decisions on reparations to victims.
The  geographical  scope  of  the  Court’s  activity 
and the increasing number of situations submitted to it 
demonstrate that many States have faith in the Court and 
entrust it with their hopes for justice and accountability. 
Faced  with  this  increasing  workload,  it  is  imperative 
for the ICC to work in an efficient and effective way. 
We  therefore  welcome  the  Court’s  efforts  aimed  at 
implementing reforms to streamline its administrative 
10/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
and  judicial  processes,  make  efficient  use  of  its 
resources, enhance the efficiency of its activities at all 
stages  of  the  judicial  process  and  improve  the  impact 
of its action.
Complementarity  is  one  of  the  core  principles  of 
the  Rome  Statute  and  is  set  out  in  article  1.  Primary 
responsibility  for  bringing  offenders  to  justice  lies 
with  the  States  themselves.  In  order  for  this  system 
to  function,  all  States  parties  should  adopt  effective 
national  legislation  to  implement  the  Rome  Statute. 
The European Union remains committed to supporting 
initiatives aimed at encouraging States to cooperate in 
the fight against impunity for atrocity crimes. To that 
end,  the  EU  has  various  assistance  instruments  and 
projects at its disposal, including programmes aimed at 
improving the legal and judicial capacities of countries 
in the context of EU assistance to the development of 
the rule of law.
There remain challenges to the effective operation 
of the Court. One is the need to ensure cooperation with 
the ICC on the part of both the United Nations and the 
States parties to the Rome Statute, in accordance with 
Security Council resolutions that refer situations to the 
Court. The European Union and its member States fully 
agree with the Court that the Council’s prerogative of 
referring  situations  to  the  Court  can  help  to  promote 
accountability  in  countries  where  grave  crimes  may 
have  been  committed  but  where  the  Court  would 
otherwise  have  no  jurisdiction.  We  also  agree  that 
once a referral is made, active follow-up is necessary 
to  ensure  cooperation  with  the  Court,  particularly 
regarding  the  arrest  and  surrender  of  individuals 
subject  to  arrest  warrants.  We  note  with  concern  the 
number  of  instances  of  non-cooperation,  including  in 
cases  referred  by  the  Security  Council  for  follow-up 
and for which no substantive response has been given.
We encourage the Security Council and the Court 
to  find  ways  to  strengthen  their  cooperation  and 
coordination. Non-cooperation with the Court hampers 
the ICC’s capacity to deliver on its mandate. We urge 
all States to take action to encourage appropriate and 
full cooperation with the Court, including the prompt 
execution of arrest warrants, and explore further ways 
to  assist  the  Court  by  considering,  for  example,  the 
conclusion  of  voluntary  cooperation  agreements  on 
witness relocation or the enforcement of sentences. We 
also  welcome  the  projects  implemented  by  the  Trust 
Fund  for  Victims  to  provide  support  reparations  to 
victims of heinous crimes in the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  and  Mali  and  to  launch  assistance 
programmes in Côte d’Ivoire, northern Uganda and the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The universality of the Rome Statute is essential for 
ensuring accountability for the most serious crimes of 
concern  to  the  international  community.  Universality 
remains one of the main objectives of the ICC and the 
EU. The EU regrets the withdrawal of Burundi from the 
Rome Statute, which took effect on 27 October 2017, and 
the decision of the Philippines to submit a notification of 
withdrawal from the Statute on 17 March 2018. During 
the reporting period, the EU continued its efforts aimed 
at promoting the universality of the Rome Statute and 
the Agreement on the Privileges and Immunities of the 
ICC and a better understanding of the Court’s mandate. 
We will continue to work tirelessly to make the Rome 
Statute truly universal. We call on all States that have 
not yet done so to ratify the Rome Statute and on States 
parties to fully implement it.
The  year  2018  is  an  important  one  for  the  ICC 
because,  as  we  have  said,  it  celebrated  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  on 
17 July 2018 and saw the activation of its jurisdiction over 
the crime of aggression, thereby fulfilling the legacy of 
the Nuremberg Trials, the 1998 Rome Conference and 
the 2010 Kampala Review Conference. In 2017 we also 
welcomed the adoption of three amendments to article 
8 of the Statute. The preamble to the Statute states that 
the most serious crimes of concern to the international 
community as a whole must not go unpunished. This is a 
core principle for the EU. The perpetrators of atrocities 
must be brought to justice and held to account. The EU 
affirms its commitment to renewing its efforts aimed at 
promoting the universality and preserving the integrity 
of the Rome Statute, this year and beyond.
We  welcome  actions  by  States, 
international 
organizations  and  civil  society  that  express  their 
support for the Court and promote its universality. We 
will encourage the widest possible participation in the 
Rome  Statute,  support  the  independence  of  the  Court 
and  promote  cooperation  with  the  ICC.  The  EU  and 
its member States are committed to working with the 
global community to pursue our common goal beyond 
2018 to further strengthen the Court so that it can fulfil 
its mandate effectively.
Mr.  Bessho  (Japan):  Let  me  begin  by  thanking 
Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, President of the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  for  his  leadership  and  the 
18-34755
11/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
powerful  statement  he  just  made  on  the  work  of  the 
International Criminal Court.
Japan  is  committed  to  the  fight  against  impunity 
and attaches great significance to the promotion of the 
rule  of  law.  We  have  therefore  consistently  supported 
the  ICC  since  its  inception.  My  Government’s  long-
standing policy is to help enable the Court to function 
effectively  and  sustainably  with  the  support  of  the 
international  community.  Besides  being  the  ICC’s 
largest  financial  contributor,  Japan  is  also  dedicated 
to supporting the Court through ensuring its supply of 
qualified human resources, including judges.
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Rome Statute. While the ICC has made 
steady  progress  in  investigating  and  prosecuting  the 
most serious crimes of international concern, there is 
still a long way to go. I would like to stress two points 
with regard to the strengthening of the Court.
First,  to  ensure  that  the  ICC  effectively  promotes 
the rule of law around the world, it should enhance its 
own universality. In the long run, the ICC should aim at 
becoming a truly universal criminal court so that it can 
gain strong support for its work. It is unfortunate that 
about a third of the States Members of the United Nations 
have yet to accede to the Rome Statute. Moreover, some 
States parties have either chosen to withdraw from the 
Statute  or  considered  doing  so.  Japan  acknowledges 
that  there  are  various  concerns  surrounding  the  ICC. 
The ICC and its States parties should continue to listen 
carefully  to  those  concerns  and  work  to  enhance  the 
ICC’s  universality  in  order  to  maximize  support  and 
cooperation from a greater number of States.
For  its  part,  Japan  has  advocated  for  the  value  of 
the  ICC,  especially  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region.  Japan 
hosted this year’s annual session of the Asian-African 
Legal Consultative Organization earlier this month and 
organized  an  outreach  event  involving  non-parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute  from  the  Asia-Pacific  and  African 
regions,  with  the  participation  of  the  President  of  the 
Assembly of States Parties, ICC judges and other ICC 
officials. We must continue engaging with non-parties 
to  the  Statute  and  emphasizing  the  importance  of  the 
Rome Statute system in the fight against impunity.
Secondly, I would like to stress that the ICC’s role 
is  to  complement  national  criminal  jurisdictions.  Its 
existence  does  not  change  the  importance  of  national 
jurisdictions  in  the  prosecution  of  serious  crimes.  In 
that  context,  capacity-building  for  legal  institutions 
in  each  State  carries  significant  weight,  not  only  in 
facilitating the work of the Court but also in ensuring 
justice  and  the  rule  of  law.  Such  capacity-building  is 
an  important  component  of  Japan’s  aid  efforts.  Japan 
strongly  believes  that  those  efforts  will  help  to  close 
the  impunity  gap  and  advance  the  rule  of  law  in  the 
long run.
In conclusion, we hope that the ICC will continue 
to work diligently in the fight against impunity while 
consolidating  its  credibility.  Japan  will  continue  to 
strongly support the work of the ICC.
Mr.  Mohamed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 
the outset, I would like to stress that like many other 
countries, the Sudan is not a party to the Rome Statute 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The Court 
explicitly contravenes the principle of international law 
that  holds  that  international  conventions  are  binding 
only  on  those  that  are  party  to  them.  As  everyone  is 
aware, the Court is not an organ of the United Nations, 
yet in committees of the General Assembly some States 
have tried to portray the situation differently.
In the pursuit of justice, putting an end to impunity 
is  an  indisputably  noble  goal.  However,  ensuring  its 
fulfilment  falls  primarily  within  the  purview  of  the 
competent  national  judicial  bodies,  pursuant  to  the 
jurisdictions  created  within  States’  domestic  legal 
systems. Attempts to politicize international justice and 
make  it  a  springboard  for  achieving  narrow  political 
interests  are  inconsistent  with  international  efforts  to 
achieve  justice  and  fulfil  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Rather  than 
promoting the overarching goals of the United Nations, 
they breach established rules of international law and 
increase tensions in international relations.
that 
international 
The  Sudan  is  honoured  to  be  the  country  that 
continues to highlight the failures of the Rome Statute 
of the ICC, including the Statute’s breach of such well-
established principles of international law as equality, 
the  principle 
instruments  and 
agreements  are  binding  only  on  parties  to  them,  and 
the  principle  of  legality,  which  states  that  there  is  no 
crime if there is no corresponding law. Given that the 
jurisdiction of the Court covers individuals from States 
parties to the Rome Statute, its failure as an institution 
is evident when we consider that almost 60 per cent of 
the peoples of the world are citizens of States that do 
not recognize the jurisdiction of the Court, in this case 
China,  Russia,  the  United  States,  India,  Pakistan  and 
12/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
Indonesia.  Those  States  alone  include  at  least  half  of 
the Earth’s inhabitants.
As we debate the report of the ICC (see A/73/334), 
it is important to point out that the relationship between 
the  United  Nations  and  the  Court  should  take  into 
consideration  their  independent  and  separate  nature 
and the fact that no organic or structured relationship 
exists  between  them.  It  is  very  worrying  to  see  some 
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  speaking  in  the 
General  Assembly  in  terms  that  imply  that  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  are  also  members  of 
the  Court.  My  delegation  will  continue  to  firmly  and 
explicitly  reject  this  trend,  which  is  also  manifest  in 
the  draft  resolutions  on  the  ICC  submitted  each  year 
to  the  Assembly.  Their  sponsors  seek  time  and  again 
to  propose  new  paragraphs  and  provide  expanded 
interpretations of the Relationship Agreement between 
the United Nations and the ICC that do not reflect the 
spirit  and  letter  of  the  Agreement.  The  Court  should 
not  be  used  in  any  way  to  gain  political  advantage  at 
the United Nations, as the Agreement that sets out the 
Court’s legal framework clearly states that the ICC is to 
be independent of the Organization.
The  Sudan  has  clearly  and  consistently  expressed 
that position in the informal consultations on the draft 
resolutions  on  the  ICC  and  the  Secretary-General’s 
reports on the Court. We will continue to express that 
position and call for strict observance of the scope and 
framework  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  between 
the United Nations and the ICC, arguing for a narrow 
interpretation  of  the  Relationship  Agreement.  The 
relationship  should  remain  within  the  limits  outlined 
in the Agreement, and portraying the Court as having 
been  universally  accepted  should  be  avoided.  The 
mandate of the United Nations and its various organs 
is clear, and any attempt to go beyond that mandate or 
reinterpret it to serve the Court alone would divert the 
Organization  and  its  various  subsidiary  organs  from 
their purposes and undermine their credibility.
It  is  crucially  important  to  note  that  there  is 
no  consensus  on  the  ICC  and  its  Rome  Statute.  My 
delegation 
the  Secretary-
General states in this year’s report on the Relationship 
Agreement  between 
the 
International Criminal Court:
the  United  Nations  and 
is  concerned  by  what 
the Court in the period under review, especially in 
the  form  of  access  to  the  Organization’s  records 
and  archives  and  the  making  available  of  United 
Nations personnel for interview by the prosecution 
in connection with situations before the Court and 
with situations under preliminary examination by 
the Prosecutor” (A/73/335, para. 4).
The United Nations must maintain its impartiality 
and must not be involved in a politicized Court. If that 
should happen, it would have an adverse effect on States’ 
cooperation with the Court and a negative impact on the 
functionality and work of the Organization that would 
eventually lead to the Court’s exclusion. The report of 
the Secretary-General on the Relationship Agreement 
should respect the letter and spirit of the Relationship 
Agreement and avoid interpretations that consider the 
Court as part of the United Nations system. Failure to 
do so would contradict the explicit scope and concept of 
the Relationship Agreement.
My delegation wants to express its concern about 
the Court’s interference in the work of the Secretariat, 
particularly its ongoing attempts to dictate to Secretariat 
staff  how  they  should  deal  with  Member  States,  and 
especially  with  respect  to  how  they  are  discharging 
their  duties  to  report.  Efforts  to  include  the  Court  in 
the administrative work of the United Nations are also 
illegitimate, representing as they do attempts to give the 
Court legitimacy — not because, as we have explained 
many  times  before,  they  result  from  contradictions 
within  the  Rome  Statute,  but  because  they  contribute 
to corrupting the implementation of the Court’s work.
Sixteen years after the entry into force of the Rome 
Statute,  we  have  seen  nothing  but  miserable  results. 
We  still  ask  ourselves  how  many  cases  have  been 
considered  by  the  ICC.  By  our  count,  only  26  cases 
have  been  taken  up,  while  41  indictees  are  currently 
being tried. Out of the 11 investigations conducted by 
the Court, only seven have been concluded. How much 
money has been spent so far on the Court? Hundreds 
of  millions  of  dollars  were  spent  for  the  reporting 
period alone. How much does a trial cost? If we do the 
math and divide the Court’s aggregate budget over 16 
years,  the  period  the  Court  has  been  in  operation,  by 
the number of completed trials, then we should get the 
answer. Who is paying for it?
“In  the  field  of  cooperation  and  judicial 
assistance, addressed in chapter III of the Agreement, 
the  Organization  provided  extensive  assistance  to 
The proponents of the ICC have stated that the ad 
hoc  or  provisional  courts  established  by  the  Security 
Council  do  not  deter  the  commission  of  crimes.  In 
18-34755
13/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
contrast,  the  ICC,  as  a  standing  Court,  does  provide 
an  element  of  deterrence.  The  question  then  becomes 
to  what  extent  the  Court  has  succeeded  in  deterring 
violations  of  the  rules  of  war  and  international 
humanitarian  law  all  over  the  world.  To  what  extent 
has the Security Council been able to equitably apply 
article 13 of the Rome Statute? Does the Court apply 
the Statute equally to all States? How many States have 
agreed to be a party to the Rome Statute?
The foregoing questions are indeed difficult ones, 
and they cannot be answered quickly. We refer them to 
the conscience of those present and to the conscience 
of  the  world  and  global  justice.  Notwithstanding  its 
claims, the ICC has not been able to justify any serious 
person’s trust that it can attain the goal it was established 
to  achieve,  that  of  ending  impunity.  Criticism  of  the 
Court is growing, and its integrity and impartiality are 
increasingly being called into question. A case in point 
is the practice of allowing voluntary contributions to be 
made the Court’s budget, which of course undermines 
its integrity and independence, as is confirmed by the 
very history of the Court.
For 
these 
reasons,  my  country  completely 
dissociates itself from the Court. We call on all Member 
States  to  listen  to  reason  and  reconsider  the  Rome 
Statute and the practices of the Court. Who among us 
would  not  like  to  put  an  end  to  atrocious  crimes  and 
impunity and bring justice to the victims? The question 
is how we can do that. Does the politicization of justice 
and  judiciary  systems  serve  that  goal?  Does  the  use 
of  double  standards  serve  that  goal?  The  continued 
practices of the Court and its flawed Statute undermine 
many  of  the  well-established  rules  of  international 
practice  that  are  considered  the  pillars  of  stability  in 
the international legal and political system.
We  strongly  believe  that  the  Court  is  doomed 
to  fail,  and  history  provides  support  for  that  belief. 
It  is  regrettable  that  it  was  not  until  1947  that  we 
saw  a  first  attempt  at  establishing  a  strong  and 
healthy  international  legal  system  as  a  foundation  for 
international  peace  and  security.  As  the  Assembly  is 
aware, there were attempts in 1947 to reach consensus 
on  the  crimes  that  undermine  the  peace  and  security 
of  humankind.  No  one  would  ever  have  thought  that 
the  result  of  those  attempts  would  be  the  adoption  of 
the Rome Statute of the ICC in 1998. The Court’s first 
President  described  the  provisions  of  the  Statute  as 
constructively ambiguous, but that ambiguity has been 
used  to  deprive  developing  countries,  in  particular 
African  countries,  of  their  judicial  sovereignty  and 
independence  both  as  individual  countries  and  as  a 
group  of  countries  represented  by  the  African  Union, 
which  by  itself  represents  nearly  30  per  cent  of  the 
Organization’s membership.
We align ourselves with a recent statement by South 
Africa’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, in particular her 
assertion that there are deep questions that proponents 
of  the  Court  must  answer.  The  principle  of  equality 
among individuals and States is the principle on which 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
law are predicated. How can the Court and its ongoing 
heinous practices be reconciled with the application of 
that principle?
The President of the Court, for whom I have great 
respect, has said that the ICC complements the work of 
national courts and interferes only in situations where 
national courts are unable or unwilling to act. This is 
the  principle  of  complementarity,  which  is  set  forth 
both in the preamble to the Statute and in its article 1, 
and is deliberately but generally covered in article 17 
on issues of admissibility. It is ironic and unfortunate 
that the Prosecutor of the Court, under overwhelming 
external  political  pressure,  has  used  the  general 
language of these provisions’ phrases together to carry 
out  experiments,  not  unlike  those  involving  mice,  in 
implementing the Statute in Africa.
In policy papers, the Prosecutor has stated that if 
the country concerned fails to investigate and prosecute 
the  cases  identified  by  the  Prosecutor,  the  country 
would be considered “unwilling or unable to act”. The 
two experiments in applying the Rome Statute in Africa 
have,  in  short,  given  the  Prosecutor  absolute  power, 
which  the  Prosecutor  has  abused  absolutely.  The  two 
countries  where  the  complementary  principle  of  the 
Statute was invoked were both in Africa. It is probable 
that it will only be applied in Africa, or possibly also in 
certain other similarly situated countries, which I could 
easily name.
Mr. Liu Yang (China) (spoke in Chinese): I am very 
pleased to take the floor at this meeting of the General 
Assembly  on  the  agenda  item  related  to  the  report  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  The  Chinese 
delegation thanks President Eboe-Osuji for introducing 
the Court’s annual report (see A/73/334).
China  has  unfailingly  supported  the  use  of  law 
to  combat  serious  international  crimes  that  endanger 
peace  and  security.  Having  been  deeply  involved  in 
14/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
the negotiating process of the Rome Statute of the ICC, 
China closely follows the Court’s work and has attended 
all the sessions of the Assembly of States Parties to the 
Rome Statute as an observer.
This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  the  Statute.  Over  the  past  two  decades, 
starting  from  scratch,  the  ICC  has  made  gradual 
improvements  to  its  rules  of  procedure  and  has 
successfully  investigated  and  concluded  some  cases 
involving serious crimes. However, it also faces many 
challenges, such as various countries’ poor cooperation 
with the Court and the need to improve its authority and 
credibility.
China  has  always  believed  that  the  Court  should 
exercise its mandate prudently and in strict accordance 
with  the  Rome  Statute.  Its  judicial  activities  should 
comply  with  the  basic  principles  of  international  law, 
including the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations, so as to promote international and 
regional peace and security.
It  is  regrettable  that  some  of  the  Court’s  judicial 
activities have generated great controversy, giving rise 
to major concerns that have prompted some countries 
to withdraw from the Rome Statute. African countries 
have  even  requested  that  the  General  Assembly  seek 
an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, which has a jurisdictional connection to some 
cases  before  the  ICC  pertaining  to  the  immunity  of 
Heads of State and Government. These issues warrant 
serious reflection.
China  has  taken  note  of  the  recent  ruling  by  the 
Pre-Trial  Chamber  of  the  ICC  that  the  Court  has 
jurisdiction  over  the  situation  in  Myanmar.  The  ICC 
Prosecutor  subsequently  announced  the  opening  of  a 
preliminary examination. China is of the view that this 
ruling was based on an inappropriate interpretation of 
the applicable legal concepts, thereby unduly expanding 
the Court’s jurisdiction. Not only is that not conducive 
to a proper resolution of the relevant situation, it may 
even make the Court’s judicial activities in the future 
more  contentious,  thereby  further  diminishing  the 
Court’s authority and credibility.
Pursuant  to  the  decision  adopted  last  year  at  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties,  the  Court  activated  its 
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression  as  of  July. 
China has always maintained that the Security Council 
has  exclusive  power  to  determine  acts  of  aggression, 
since  the  collective  security  mechanism  established 
after the Second World War has the Security Council 
at its core. The Court’s jurisdiction over the crime of 
aggression must fall within this basic legal framework. 
With  respect  to  the  specific  scope  of  jurisdiction,  the 
Court should strictly abide by the amendments on the 
crime of aggression and the decisions of the Assembly 
of States Parties, thus excluding both crimes committed 
by nationals of non-State parties or by nationals of States 
parties that have not yet accepted the amendments, and 
crimes committed in the territories of those States.
China  reiterates  its  support  for  an  independent, 
impartial,  effective  and  universal 
institution  for 
dispensing international criminal justice. It is our hope 
that the ICC will see the twentieth anniversary of the 
Rome  Statute  as  an  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  its 
successes and failures and contemplate how to gain the 
universal trust of all countries so as to promote judicial 
justice  and  international  peace  and  security  through 
more objective and impartial judicial practices.
Mr.  Borut  Mahnič  (Slovenia):  Slovenia  aligns 
itself with the statement made just now by the observer 
of the European Union.
In  view  of  the  importance  of  the  subject  matter 
before  us,  we  would  like  to  make  some  additional 
comments.  Slovenia  joins  others  in  thanking  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, for his helpful introduction of 
the latest report of the Court (see A/73/334) .
This  was  a  landmark  year  for  the  ICC,  as  it  has 
been  commemorating  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  completing  the 
activation  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime 
of  aggression,  thus  giving  it  jurisdiction  over  all  the 
crimes for which jurisdiction was originally envisaged 
under the Statute. Today the ICC is a central institution 
of  international  criminal  justice.  The  importance  of 
its  role  is  evident  from  the  number  of  cases  that  the 
Court  has  taken  up,  which  directly  or  indirectly 
affect many regions all over the world. The Court has 
registered  achievements  in  the  fields  of  case  law  and 
victim  assistance,  among  others,  and  this  important 
anniversary  is  a  great  opportunity  to  acknowledge 
them.
At the same time, the twentieth anniversary is an 
opportunity to address the Court’s challenges and the 
need for improvement in various areas so as to ensure 
its successful operation in future. In this context, it is 
important to acknowledge the difficulty of establishing 
18-34755
15/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
a Court that prosecutes high-ranking individuals. The 
expectations  about  what  the  Court  can  do,  given  its 
capacities,  should  be  reasonable.  Furthermore,  in  the 
light of the many conflicts around the world, the ICC is 
not without its opponents. Given its increasingly active 
role, as well as changes in the international arena that 
are challenging the very concept of multilateralism, it 
is imperative that we continue to support the Court.
States  will  have  to  show  greater  initiative  in 
assisting the Court by taking concrete action, including 
by doing more to arrest individuals for whom warrants 
have been issued. We need to seek solutions for victims 
who  do  not  come  under  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  due 
either  to  the  Court’s  lack  of  universal  acceptance  or 
the unsatisfactory actions of the Security Council. One 
such  case  is  Syria,  where  for  several  years  we  have 
observed  complete  impunity  for  crimes  committed 
on  Syrian  territory.  Slovenia  also  supports  initiatives 
within the United Nations that call for prohibiting the 
use of the veto in the Security Council with regard to 
the referral of cases to the ICC. At the same time, we 
realize  that  in  addition  to  State-based  challenges,  we 
must be able to address possible legitimate criticism of 
the Court.
As  a  long-standing  supporter  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  Slovenia  encourages  all  States  that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  consider  joining  it.  We  also 
commend  those  who  have  ratified  and  acceded  to  the 
Kampala amendments to the Rome Statute on the crime 
of aggression. Slovenia’s commitment to strengthening 
international  justice  reflects  its  foreign  policy,  which 
is  based  on  the  rule  of  law,  respect  for  international 
law  and  an  awareness  that  lasting  peace  and  security 
and social progress are impossible without respect for 
human  rights  and  the  prosecution  of  the  most  serious 
crimes.
initiatives.  Slovenia 
through  events  and 
Allow  me  to  briefly  present  Slovenia’s  activities 
in  support  of  the  Court.  Slovenia  is  active  in  both 
multilateral and regional forums. We strive to promote 
support for the Court’s work through bilateral contacts 
and 
is 
represented  on  the  Bureau  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties. The Mutual Legal Assistance initiative, which 
Slovenia  leads  together  with  Argentina,  Belgium, 
the  Netherlands,  Mongolia  and  Senegal,  proposes  an 
international convention on mutual legal assistance and 
extradition for domestic prosecution of the most serious 
international  crimes  with  a  view  to  strengthening  the 
capacity of national courts.
Slovenia  joined  others  in  commemorating  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome 
Statute  this  year  by  organizing  a  round  table  in 
Ljubljana  in  June  and  a  panel  at  our  most  prominent 
annual international conference on foreign policy, the 
Bled  Strategic  Forum,  in  September.  At  the  Forum, 
Prosecutor  Bensouda 
the  Distinguished 
Partner Award, and Mr. O-Gon-Kwon, President of the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties,  was  among  the  speakers. 
An agreement between my country and the ICC on the 
enforcement  of  the  Court’s  sentences  will  be  signed 
soon.
received 
A  great  portion  of  this  year’s  report  focuses  on 
international  cooperation,  and  rightly  so.  Lacking 
enforcement  powers  and  outreach  capacities,  the  ICC 
depends greatly on cooperation and support on the part 
of  States,  civil  society  and  regional  and  international 
organizations.
Slovenia greatly values the many forms of mutual 
cooperation between the United Nations and the ICC, 
both with Headquarters and with peacekeeping missions 
and  other  United  Nations  presences  on  the  ground. 
Slovenia is pleased to note that cooperation between the 
United Nations and the ICC is generally very good. At 
the same time, we see room for improvement.
In  that  context,  Slovenia  considers  that  increased 
cooperation between the Security Council and the ICC 
would  contribute  significantly  to  the  prevention  of 
atrocity crimes, as well as to the Court’s effectiveness 
and credibility. The roles of the Council and the Court 
are  inherently  interlinked.  For  example,  the  Council 
has the capacity to play an important part in addressing 
non-cooperation with the Court. It can contribute to the 
Court’s  effectiveness  through  its  work  on  sanctions-
related matters, such as travel bans and the freezing of 
assets.  Moreover,  its  active  follow-up  on  its  referrals 
to  the  ICC  would  make  a  decisive  contribution  to  the 
Court’s effectiveness.
Cooperation with the ICC by States parties to the 
Rome  Statute,  as  well  as  States  that  are  not  party,  in 
the  case  of  Security  Council  referrals,  is  not  a  policy 
choice. It is an international legal obligation. Slovenia is 
concerned about the fact that 15 arrest warrants issued 
by  the  Court  remain  outstanding,  and  some  of  them 
have been so for several years. That presents a serious 
obstacle to the Court’s mandate and its credibility. It is 
clear that more should be done by States to ensure the 
16/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
execution  of  outstanding  warrants.  Slovenia  calls  for 
full and prompt cooperation with the Court.
Also  critical  to  the  Court’s  credibility  are  its 
efficiency  and  integrity.  In  that  respect,  Slovenia 
welcomes  the  efforts  within  the  Court  to  further 
improve the efficiency of its proceedings. We recognize 
the  importance  of  addressing  the  challenges  that  the 
Court faces. It is not exempt from criticism and it has 
already  lived  through  some  challenging  moments.  In 
that  context,  Slovenia  underlines  the  important  role 
of  internal  processes  and  the  Court’s  Independent 
Oversight  Mechanism.  We  place  our  trust  in  the 
Mechanism  and  are  confident  that,  through  its  work, 
the Court will be able to perform its tasks, which will 
protect its integrity.
An impartial, independent, universal and effective 
ICC  that  delivers  high-quality  judgments  and  ensures 
that  victims  remain  central  to  its  tasks  should  be  our 
common  goal.  That  will  require  joint  efforts  by  all 
stakeholders.  Slovenia  remains  firmly  committed  to 
the  rule  of  law  and  international  criminal  justice  and 
stands  ready  to  contribute  to  further  strengthening 
international criminal justice.
Mr.  Mlynár  (Slovakia):  While  aligning  my 
delegation  with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the 
observer of the European Union, I would like to make 
some further observations in my national capacity.
First  of  all,  I  want  to  thank  Mr.  Eboe-Osuji, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
for  his  comprehensive  presentation.  I  would  also  like 
to thank the ICC for the report on its activities in 2017 
and 2018 (see A/73/334). The General Assembly debate 
on this report is one of the important institutional links 
between the United Nations and the ICC and provides a 
very useful platform for all 193 States Members of the 
United Nations to discuss and address the work of this 
unique judicial forum.
Today  I  would  like  to  address  the  issues  of  the 
universality  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the  relationship 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court.
Established  20  years  ago,  the  ICC  is  the  only 
permanent international judicial organ that has general 
jurisdiction  over  the  most  heinous  crimes  under 
international  law.  The  Court  can  fulfil  its  mission  of 
ending  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  war  crimes, 
crimes  against  humanity,  genocide  and  the  crime  of 
aggression only if it achieves universality. We believe 
that  we  should  focus  all  of  our  political  efforts  and 
consistently  engage  in  an  open  and  patient  dialogue 
based on the shared core values of the ICC, which in 
turn will enable all States parties to the Rome Statute 
to continue strengthening the international rules-based 
order and prevent impunity.
Also, non-participating States must be encouraged 
to join the Rome Statute system in order to eliminate 
the  territorial  or  personal  jurisdictional  gaps  that 
enable perpetrators to escape justice. Having activated 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression 
and having adopted three new war crime amendments 
in December 2017, the Rome Statute provides broader 
protection than ever to the victims of the most heinous 
international crimes. We believe that all States should 
work  closely  together  in  the  spirit  of  cooperation  and 
mutual trust.
Coming  to  my  second  point,  the  institutional 
links  between  the  International  Criminal  Court  and 
the  United  Nations  have  broadened  the  spectrum  of 
measures  that  the  Security  Council  can  take  when 
dealing  with  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security. Without justice, sustainable peace cannot 
be achieved. Slovakia encourages the Security Council 
to use that unique tool and to make referrals in cases 
where  international  crimes  are  being  committed  and 
the national authorities with the primary responsibility 
for prosecuting those crimes are not in a position to do 
so. It is equally important to ensure that the Security 
Council  follows  up  on  its  referrals.  The  ICC  and  the 
international  community  as  a  whole  should  not  be 
thwarted by a lack of cooperation by Member States.
I  also  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  point 
the  ICC-
out  a  worrying  development  whereby 
related  language  in  some  recent  Security  Council 
resolutions  —  for  example  resolution  2427  (2018),  on 
children and armed conflict — has been weakened in 
comparison with its predecessor, in this case resolution 
2225  (2015).  Trust  and  a  symbiotic  relationship  are 
built  first  and  foremost  on  actions  but  words  also 
matter.  We  hope  that  we  will  all  work  collectively  to 
prevent any erosion of support, verbal or practical, to 
the International Criminal Court.
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  Slovakia’s  strong 
support  for  the  International  Criminal  Court,  as 
well  as  for  the  broader  cause  of  closing  the  impunity 
gap  for  international  crimes.  That  support  is  also 
18-34755
17/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
clearly  reflected  in  Slovakia’s  committed  service  as 
Vice-President  of  the  Bureau  and  Coordinator  of  the 
New  York  Working  Group  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties to the Rome Statute.
Mr. Jiménez Piernas (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): Let 
me begin by congratulating the International Criminal 
Court (ICC) on its work since our meeting during the 
previous  session  (see  A/72/PV.36)  and  by  thanking 
its  President,  Judge  Eboe-Osuji,  for  his  presentation 
of the report on the Court’s activities in the past year 
(see  A/73/334).  The  International  Criminal  Court  is 
one of the greatest and most recent achievements of the 
international community. Twenty years ago, the United 
Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on 
the  Establishment  of  an  International  Criminal  Court 
culminated in the adoption of the Rome Statute.
Since  then,  States  have  followed  the  work  of 
the  Court  both  from  our  capitals  and  through  our 
participation  in  various  working  groups,  committees 
and, of course, the meetings of the Assembly of States 
Parties. The consideration given to the ICC is consistent 
with the importance of its mandate, the serious political 
implications of its activities and the burden of its budget 
on  our  national  finances.  Moreover,  there  are  many 
aspects of the Court’s daily functioning that merit our 
attention — the Kampala amendments, the promotion 
of its universalization, judicial assistance, protection of 
victims and many others. We will address only some of 
those aspects.
It is true that the Court enjoys the significant support 
of an increasing number of States, including Spain and 
members of the European Union, whose statement we 
endorse.  There  has  been  ongoing  development  of  the 
Court’s  jurisprudence,  which  demonstrates  the  extent 
of  its  impartiality,  with  no  suspicion  that  it  may  be 
taking  sides  or  disregarding  the  rights  of  any  of  its 
participants.  But  today  the  Court  faces  a  number  of 
challenges  —  old,  new  or  recurring  —  that  make  it 
difficult  to  render  justice  for  the  most  serious  crimes 
of concern to the international community as a whole. 
In the past year, the Court has been harshly criticized 
by  its  enemies.  We  have  seen  withdrawals,  threats  of 
withdrawal  and  even  threats  of  retaliation  against 
judges  —  and  their  property  —  whom  we  elected  to 
deliver justice on behalf of the international community.
Many States have reaffirmed their strong support 
to  the  Court  before  the  General  Assembly,  since  we 
consider  it  a  key  instrument  in  the  administration  of 
international  justice  as  a  means  to  address  the  kinds 
of  conduct  set  out  in  the  Statute.  A  month  ago,  in 
his  statement  to  the  Assembly,  the  President  of  my 
Government recalled that the efforts of the International 
Criminal  Court  in  that  regard  were  irreplaceable  (see 
A/73/PV.11).
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  not  yet  a 
universal organization, although not for lack of intention. 
Its  States  parties  and  civil  society  continue  to  make 
efforts  in  that  regard.  Meanwhile,  our  main  objective 
should be to protect the Court in order to enable it to 
function as it should without undue interference from 
third parties and with all the resources it requires.
Being a State party to the Court of course means 
participating in its arrangements and those of its organs. 
However, in recent years, we have seen some Member 
States  refuse  to  cooperate  with  the  International 
Criminal Court, including in cases where the Court acts 
at the request of the Security Council in its capacity as 
the guarantor of international peace and security under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. We 
have the responsibility to make every effort to rectify 
that  lack  of  cooperation  whenever  it  occurs  and  to 
prevent its recurrence in future.
It  is  true  that  the  Court  has  failed  to  meet 
expectations  in  some  of  its  cases,  with  unconfirmed 
charges,  cases  abandoned  during  oral  hearings  and 
acquittals  that  grieve  the  communities  where  the 
crimes took place. However, the significance of the rule 
of law is the high level of protection for the rights of 
the accused. In that regard, the International Criminal 
Court has lived up to what we as States parties expect 
of a leading international court. We should clearly seek 
a higher rate of conviction in the cases initiated by the 
Office  of  the  Prosecutor  in  order  to  ensure  the  most 
efficient  use  of  the  resources  allocated  to  investigate 
crimes and prosecute criminals.
We  should  also  redouble  our  efforts  to  raise 
awareness  of  the  requirements  of  the  rule  of  law  in 
communities  ravaged  by  the  most  serious  crimes. 
Specifically,  we  must  explain  that  a  trial’s  premature 
end  or  an  acquittal  judgment  in  no  way  negates  the 
commission  of  crimes  or  asserts  that  no  one  should 
be  held  responsible,  but  rather  that  the  evidence 
presented was insufficient to convict the defendants. It 
is crucial that in such cases, there is no doubt about the 
commission of crimes but rather about the guilt beyond 
18/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
all  doubt  of  the  individuals  whom  the  Prosecutor  has 
indicted.
In conclusion, I want to mention the delicate issue 
of the resources available to the International Criminal 
Court to carry out its mandate. The Court is currently 
considering  11  cases,  and  another  nine  are  under 
preliminary  examination.  That  is  an  important  point 
because an ad hoc international tribunal can investigate 
only  one  case  at  a  time.  The  current  caseload  of  the 
Court is therefore equivalent to that of a number of ad 
hoc  tribunals,  even  excluding  situations  that  are  at  a 
preliminary stage.
Nevertheless, the budget of the Court between 2010 
and 2015 was lower than those of two ad hoc tribunals, 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia 
and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda. 
Clearly,  a  single  jurisdiction  is  always  less  expensive 
than  multiple  jurisdictions  and  generates  economies 
of  scale,  but  that  lack  of  resources  limits  the  work  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  The  qualifications 
needed  to  investigate  different  crimes  in  different 
places in the world are also not comparable.
All of that applies both to the Office of the Prosecutor 
and  the  defence  teams,  which  need  the  necessary 
resources, pursuant to the Court’s regulations, to ensure 
an effective and efficient defence. The Secretariat has 
just issued a reform proposal for free legal assistance 
before  the  Court,  and  Spain  will  participate  in  the 
discussion with a view to ensuring adequate resources 
within our budgetary means.
In talking about participants in the proceedings, I 
would be remiss not to mention the victims. In past years 
it has become standard practice for the Court’s budget 
to cover the cost of the common legal representatives 
of the victims in every case, including the participation 
of  the  Office  of  Public  Counsel  for  Victims.  We  also 
understand  that  the  funds  that  States  allocate  for  that 
task should be channelled through that Office, that is to 
say, that the Office should always represent the victims 
at the Court’s expense.
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  a  part  of  the 
mechanism  that  the  international  community  has 
been  patiently  building  since  1945  in  order  to  make 
the  world  a  better  place.  We  all  have  a  responsibility 
to maintain, grease and fuel it, as it were. Let us take 
every opportunity, such as the next elections of judges 
and the Prosecutor, to establish a new milestone in its 
consolidation within the international system.
Mr.  Spengemann  (Canada):  I  am  the  member  of 
Parliament  for  the  electoral  district  of Mississauga-
Lakeshore in  Canada.  It  is  an  honour  to  have  this 
opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  this 
afternoon.
The  fight  against  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
international criminal acts is at the core of the rules-
based  international  order.  A  clear  conviction  about 
ensuring  accountability  for  war  crimes,  genocide  and 
crimes  against  humanity  has  guided  our  collective 
efforts  to  safeguard  international  peace  and  security. 
That  same  conviction  prompted  the  establishment  of 
the norms and institutions that give expression to our 
values, including respect for the inherent dignity of all. 
This  year,  on  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
we should pause and take stock, both to consider and 
celebrate what we have been able to achieve and what 
remains to done.
Together  we  have  helped  to  build  an  institution 
that  has  rendered  landmark  judgments  condemning 
the recruitment of child soldiers as well as sexual and 
gender-based crimes. Together we have supported the 
development  of  jurisprudence  that  makes  clear  that 
those  responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes  will 
be  held  to  account.  And  together  we  have  helped  the 
International  Criminal  Court  to  become  a  beacon  of 
hope  for  victims  seeking  justice,  including  women, 
girls  and  members  of  ethnic  and  religious  minorities, 
who  continue  to  be  among  those  most  affected  by 
the commission of such atrocities. However, the fight 
against  impunity  is  nowhere  near  complete,  and  this 
century,  like  the  previous  one,  continues  to  demand 
urgent action.
We remain some distance from achieving the full 
universalization  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Canada  will 
continue  to  encourage  States  that  have  yet  to  do  so 
to  join  the  Rome  Statute  system.  As  it  continues  to 
mature,  work  must  be  done  to  make  the  Court  more 
efficient.  Canada  will  work  constructively  in  support 
of our common goals of maintaining and strengthening 
the  structure  of  permanent, 
judicial 
institutions  that  have  the  respect  and  confidence  of 
the  international  community.  The  ICC  cannot  fulfil 
its  mandate  without  the  cooperation  of  States.  To  be 
efficient, the Court must operate without obstruction, 
beyond power politics and beyond geopolitics.
independent 
18-34755
19/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
We strongly encourage all United Nations Members 
to fully respect the independence of the ICC, which is 
an indispensable feature of any court of law. We believe 
that the ICC has a central role to play in resolving the 
current  situations  in  Venezuela  and  Myanmar and 
thereby reinforcing the rules-based international order. 
For  that  reason,  together  with  our  regional  partners, 
we have referred the situation in Venezuela to the ICC. 
Canada  also  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  Pre-Trial 
Chamber on the question of jurisdiction over the crime 
of  the  forced  displacement  of  Rohingya  refugees.  We 
urge the Security Council to take up that issue and refer 
the situation to the ICC.
(spoke in French)
Accountability is not a luxury to be afforded only 
when circumstances allow. It is the duty of each State 
to  bring  to  justice  those  responsible  for  the  serious 
crimes  committed  within  its  jurisdiction.  As  a  Court 
of last resort, the International Criminal Court seeks to 
complement rather than replace national courts. Its work 
is intrinsically linked to broader justice efforts within 
national  jurisdictions.  Canada  is  determined  to  seek 
justice for the victims of serious international crimes. 
If Canada is elected as a non-permanent member of the 
Security  Council  for  the  term  from  2021  to  2022,  we 
will continue to champion accountability in all of the 
Council’s deliberations. We are confident that together 
we can fight impunity.
Mrs.  Zappia  (Italy):  Italy  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  earlier  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union.
We  join  others  in  thanking  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) for his introduction 
of the report today (see A/73/334). I would like to make 
just two main additional points in my national capacity.
First of all, I want to reaffirm Italy’s strong support 
for the International Criminal Court and its activities. 
In that regard, let me emphasize the importance of the 
principles and purposes that inspire the Rome Statute 
system,  including  the  impartiality  and  independence 
of  the  Court,  as  well  as  the  continuing  relevance  of 
the  imperative  norms  of  international  law  that  are 
codified  in  the  Rome  Statute.  Those  are  fundamental 
achievements  for  the  international  community  as  a 
whole that we must cherish.
As  Italy’s  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
International  Cooperation  said  on  the  occasion  of  an 
event marking the twentieth anniversary of the Rome 
Statute,  history  has  shown  that  leaving  international 
crimes unpunished is not only morally wrong, it plants 
the seeds of new conflicts and atrocities. A solid system 
of  accountability  for  international  crimes  is  a  pivotal 
tool for prevention.
I now come to my second point. We — States both 
party and non-party to the Rome Statute — must work 
together,  particularly  here  at  the  United  Nations,  to 
strengthen the preventive aspect of accountability. The 
prevention of conflicts and crimes must be strengthened 
through all possible means. Clearly, the Court has a role 
to play in that regard.
Italy firmly believes in a rules-based international 
legal order. The first permanent global criminal court, 
the ICC, is an essential element of such a legal order. 
In  that  regard,  we  are  committed  to  the  universality 
of the Statute and encourage all States that are not yet 
party to it to consider ratifying it. With that in mind, 
we  should  recall  that  the  Court  is  a  judicial  body  of 
last  resort  that  operates  only  in  cases  where  national 
jurisdictions are unable or unwilling to prosecute. Our 
task  is  to  work  together  through  capacity-building, 
technical  assistance  and  other  forms  of  cooperation, 
including judicial cooperation, to ensure that domestic 
jurisdictions are in a position to discharge their primary 
function to render justice to victims of the most heinous 
crimes.
The  report  introduced  this  year  proves  that  the 
Court  is  a  solid  institution  that  is  progressing  on  a 
number of situations and cases. It is working effectively 
with States and in partnership with the United Nations 
on the basis of the Relationship Agreement between the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court 
of 2004 and in compliance with the requests set out in 
Security Council resolutions. Italy will continue to lend 
its  support  to  the  Court  in  the  fight  against  impunity 
and in the strengthening of accountability measures for 
the most serious crimes.
Ms. Hallum (New Zealand): We thank the President 
of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Chile 
Eboe-Osuji,  for  his  report  (see  A/73/334),  and  we 
welcome the opportunity to discuss the contribution of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  to  the  international 
rule of law and the Court’s relationship with the United 
Nations. New Zealand strongly supports the Court and 
the critical importance of its mandate to hold to account 
20/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
those  who  commit  the  most  serious  international 
crimes, regardless of where they occur.
stand by that view and remain ready to work with other 
States to increase the membership of the Court.
There has been a great deal of reflection on the role 
of  the  Court  in  this  twentieth  anniversary  year  of  its 
founding  Rome  Statute.  For  New  Zealand’s  part,  we 
consider  the  Court  to  be  a  central  component  in  the 
international rules-based order and international efforts 
to end impunity. We acknowledge that it has weathered 
significant  challenges  over  the  past  two  decades  and 
continues  to  do  so.  We  emphasize,  however,  that  an 
independent Court to act as a last resort to try the most 
serious  crimes  of  concern  to  humankind  is  now  as 
essential and necessary as ever.
New  Zealand  is  committed  to  the  Rome  Statute 
and  its  underpinning  principles  of  complementarity, 
cooperation and universality. We are also firmly of the 
belief that the mandate and credibility of the Court are 
intrinsically tied to its independence and impartiality. 
New Zealand urges all States to uphold those principles 
and be guided by them in their dealings with the Court.
Last  year’s  Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court saw 
the  successful  completion  of  a  decades-long  process 
towards activating the Court’s jurisdiction on the crime 
of  aggression.  That  was  a  momentous  achievement 
of  historic  significance,  all  the  more  so  because  it 
was  adopted  by  consensus.  The  Assembly  of  States 
Parties also added three new war crimes to the Rome 
Statute, criminalizing the use of microbial, biological 
and toxin weapons, weapons that injure by fragments 
undetectable  by  X-ray  and  laser-blinding  weapons, 
in  the  case  of  both  international  armed  conflicts  and 
armed conflicts not of an international character.
As we look ahead to the next session of the Assembly 
of  States  Parties,  in  December,  New  Zealand’s  view 
is  that  States  parties  should  focus  on  supporting  the 
Court  in  consolidating  its  work  in  the  exercise  of  its 
existing mandate and focusing on the investigation and 
prosecution  of  the  most  serious  international  crimes, 
consistent with the principle of complementarity. New 
Zealand  considers  that  channelling  our  collective 
efforts towards that goal will be the most effective way 
of galvanizing the Court against the challenges it faces.
New Zealand has previously stated the view that in 
the spirit of universality, we must listen to one another, 
constructively debate concerns and address them in a 
manner  that  preserves  the  integrity  of  the  Court.  We 
One of the most important strands in the relationship 
between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations  is  the 
role  that  the  Security  Council  can  play  in  achieving 
accountability  for  international  crimes  through  the 
use  of  its  referral  powers.  New  Zealand  reiterates 
its  view  that  the  Council  should  use  those  powers  to 
ensure  accountability.  Just  as  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  is  an  important  tool  in  the  Council’s  peace 
and  security  toolkit,  so  is  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  New  Zealand  continues  to  believe  firmly  that 
when  the  Council  decides  to  refer  a  situation  to  the 
Court,  it  should  do  so  with  a  clear  commitment  to 
following up and ensuring that the Court receives the 
support, cooperation and resources, including funding, 
that it needs to implement Council decisions. A failure 
to  take  action  calls  into  question  the  authority  of  the 
Council and its decisions. New Zealand is encouraged 
by the efforts made to raise that issue, including in the 
Arria Formula meeting earlier this year, but calls on all 
Council members to make greater efforts to address the 
issue systematically.
The importance of the Court’s work for the victims 
of the crimes that it prosecutes must not be forgotten. 
In acknowledging that work, we recognize that States 
parties can assist by making contributions to the ICC 
Trust  Fund  for  Victims.  New  Zealand  was  pleased  to 
be  able  to  make  a  contribution  to  the  Fund  this  year. 
We look forward to constructively engaging with other 
States  parties  at  the  upcoming  Assembly  of  States 
Parties to identify practical options that will make the 
Court stronger and more effective.
Mr. Al-Ghadban (Libya) (spoke in Arabic): At the 
outset, I would like to thank Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, 
President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), for 
the Court’s annual report (see A/73/334) to the General 
Assembly, which we have taken note of.
We have one question constantly in mind — where 
justice regarding the most heinous crimes in the world 
can  be  served.  Is  it  through  national  jurisdictions,  or 
through  the  ICC  in  The  Hague?  The  Rome  Statute 
created  the  ICC  to  combat  impunity.  It  is  a  modern 
Statute that brings together the two systems of national 
and  international  jurisdiction.  It  aims  to  investigate 
the  most  heinous  crimes,  that  is,  war  crimes,  crimes 
against humanity and genocide.
18-34755
21/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
the 
jurisdiction.  In 
The  concept  of 
ICC’s  complementary 
competence  was  designed  to  frame  the  relationship 
between  international  and  national  criminal  justice. 
Based on that concept, the ICC complements national 
criminal 
that  regard,  Libya  has 
cooperated  with  the  ICC  in  order  to  achieve  justice 
at  that  stage,  while  stressing  the  principle  of  State 
sovereignty in connection with the implementation of 
national laws for crimes perpetrated on its soil.
We  are  fully  aware  of  the  delays  in  Libya  in 
pursuing  and  prosecuting  accused  persons.  However, 
we  underscore  that  they  in  no  way  indicate  that  our 
national justice system does not intend to prosecute and 
punish the perpetrators of crimes. On the contrary, they 
are  due  to  the  security  conditions  in  Libya.  The  fact 
is that our national justice system has already initiated 
trials of several accused persons. Moreover, judgments 
have been rendered to punish some of the accused and 
acquit others. For that reason, it is important to respect 
the competence of our national jurisdiction.
in  assisting 
In  that  regard,  we  highlight  the  capacity  of  our 
national  justice  system  in  fulfilling  its  commitments, 
achieving  justice  and  strengthening  the  rule  of  law. 
That  requires  significant  support  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community 
the  Libyan 
authorities in overcoming the security crisis plaguing 
the country, alongside the efforts being made to ensure 
the success of the political process. To that end, our law-
enforcement authorities need the necessary support to 
enable them to perform their role, strengthen security 
and stability and control the factors and circumstances 
under  which  violations  and  crimes  arise.  They  must 
also be supported so that they can seize the tools used 
to perpetrate crimes, specifically weapons, which will 
help them to curb terrorist and lawless groups.
To conclude, we reiterate that the Libyan authorities 
are determined to punish the perpetrators of crimes and 
combat impunity, in line with the principle of applying 
the  relevant  legal  rules,  reflecting  the  sovereignty 
of  law.  The  Libyan  jurisdiction  is  independent  and 
impartial,  capable  of  achieving  social  and  criminal 
justice as soon as our State institutions are stabilized, 
which we are on our way to achieving.
Mr. Węckowicz (Poland): Poland aligns itself with 
the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the  European 
Union on behalf of its member States, which we would 
like to supplement with some remarks in our national 
capacity.
At the outset, we would like to express our gratitude 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC), Mr. Chile Eboe-Osuji, for presenting the annual 
report detailing the activities of the ICC (see A/73/334). 
The report gives evidence of the increasing activity of 
the Court and proves that it has become an indispensable 
instrument of international criminal justice. By fighting 
impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  atrocities  that  shock 
the  conscience  of  humankind,  the  ICC  continues  the 
tradition of the ad hoc criminal tribunals. Twenty years 
after the signing of the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal Court, we are proud of the Court’s record in 
augmenting the international rule of law.
Poland notes that the underlying goals of the Rome 
Statute  coincide  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  ICC  has  been 
granted  jurisdiction  over  atrocity  crimes  because, 
by  their  very  nature,  those  crimes  are  understood 
to  be  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Consequently, the achievement of ensuring individual 
criminal  responsibility  is  the  pinnacle  of  the  rules-
based  international  order.  However,  have  we  in  the 
international  community  of  States  done  everything 
we  can  to  ensure  the  centrality  of  the  ICC?  We  often 
take  for  granted  the  fulfilment  of  universal  justice, 
ignoring the fact that achieving the promise of justice 
is a continuing process requiring mutual effort.
Poland would like to stress that the ICC itself does 
not have the resources necessary to ensure compliance 
with its arrest warrants. Due to inadequate cooperation 
from States, the Court’s activity is in constant jeopardy. 
Moreover,  unequivocal  commitment  is  needed  from 
international  organizations.  As  a  member  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  period  from  2018  to  2019, 
Poland  understands  the  Council’s  role  as  the  Court’s 
critical  partner.  We  favour  granting  the  Court  the 
broadest possible support by the Council. Cooperation 
with the Security Council in executing arrest warrants 
should  be  sought  in  order  to  bring  justice  to  every 
corner of the world.
The  efforts  of  States  parties  should  by  no  means 
absolve  the  Court  from  the  task  of  building  trust. 
The  efficiency  of  the  Court’s  proceedings  still  needs 
improvement, and that should be a priority for the Court. 
We trust that the Court will enhance the procedures of 
international criminal justice, assuring that there will be 
no hindrances to progress in the fight against impunity. 
Poland welcomes the efforts that the Court has already 
undertaken to streamline procedures, developments that 
22/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
are very much needed to dispel misconceptions about 
its performance. With 11 situations under investigation 
and  another  nine  preliminary  examinations  launched, 
the  Court’s  record  is  on  the  way  to  translation  into  a 
legacy of lasting jurisprudence. Poland hopes that, with 
more proceedings brought to conclusion, the Court will 
prove even more worthy of the trust of the international 
community.  It  is  in  the  interests  of  all  nations  to 
sustain  the  mechanism  for  bringing  about  justice  and 
reconciliation provided by the ICC.
Poland  appreciates  the  broadening  of  the  Court’s 
mandate. The decision of the Assembly of States Parties 
to  activate  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of 
aggression is a milestone in the quest for justice. Poland 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  universalization  of 
the  Kampala  amendments.  We  remain  hopeful  that 
more States will ratify them in order to help the Court 
effectively discharge its responsibility for punishing the 
perpetrators of the crime of aggression. We underline 
that the joint effort of all States parties is needed in order 
to vest the Court with the most effective and expansive 
toolkit for its task of preventing and punishing the most 
serious crimes.
Twenty  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  Poland  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  ICC.  We 
urge  all  members  of  the  international  community  to 
commit  to  the  Court’s  efforts  to  deliver  justice.  We 
plead  for  the  universalization  of  the  ICC,  which  will 
allow  us,  as  Prosecutor  Fatou  Bensouda  said  at  the 
first  Arria  Formula  meeting  on  relations  between  the 
Security Council and the International Criminal Court, 
to realize the
“[h]ope  that  the  cold  calculus  of  international 
politics  does  not  ...  undermine  humanity’s  shared 
values and common yearning for peace”.
We encourage all States to treat the Court as a partner 
in pursuit of the common goals of justice and peace. A 
strong and robust Court is a guarantee that the world 
will not be enveloped by mass atrocities.
Mr.  Meza-Cuadra  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
I  would  like  to  begin  my  statement  by  expressing 
our  gratitude  for  the  presentation  of  the  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/73/334)  by  the 
President  of  the  Court  on  its  activities  for  the  period 
from  2017  to  2018,  as  well  as  for  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on the implementation of article 3 of 
the Relationship Agreement between the United Nations 
and the International Criminal Court (A/73/335).
I 
commitment 
reaffirm  our 
to  upholding 
international law and the promotion and protection of 
human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the 
rule of law, as we consider them the basic prerequisites 
for  bringing  about  peaceful  and  inclusive  societies. 
We are aware that access to justice and accountability 
are  fundamental  to  achieving  that  goal.  Accordingly, 
my  country  supports  all  initiatives  aimed  at  ensuring 
that  those  responsible  for  serious  human  rights  and 
international  humanitarian  law  violations  are  held 
accountable for their actions.
In  a  world  marked  by  conflict  and  humanitarian 
emergencies,  the  Court  requires  the  firm  support 
of  the  international  community  and  the  determined 
cooperation  of  State  parties  more  than  ever.  While 
some States question the role of the Court, Peru firmly 
believes in its legitimacy and shows its support in no 
uncertain terms. Since March, a Peruvian woman, the 
lawyer  and  prosecutor  Ms.  Luz  del  Carmen  Ibáñez 
Carranza, has been serving as a judge of this important 
Court.  Likewise,  in  keeping  with  our  commitment  to 
combating  impunity  in  domestic  and  international 
matters,  Peru, 
together  with  Argentina,  Canada, 
Chile,  Colombia  and  Paraguay,  pursuant  to  article  14 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  has  requested  the  Office  of  the 
Prosecutor  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  to 
initiate  an  investigation  into  crimes  against  humanity 
committed  in  Venezuela  since  12  February  2014,  so 
as  to  determine  whether  one  or  several  individuals 
should be charged with the commission of such crimes. 
We  have  based  our  case  on  the  evidence  gathered  by 
impartial international bodies, such as the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
the  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human  Rights 
and the Panel of Independent International Experts of 
the  Organization  of  American  States.  In  addition  to 
the signatory States’ commitment, we are grateful for 
the  support  of  France,  Costa  Rica,  Germany  and  the 
European Parliament in that initiative.
Peru  is  advocating  in  the  Security  Council  for  a 
more meaningful relationship between the Council and 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  We  therefore  stress 
that the primary responsibility of the Security Council 
for  maintaining  international  peace  and  security  and 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  most  serious  crimes 
must  be  understood  and  acted  on  as  complementary 
and  interdependent  tasks  in  general.  We  nevertheless 
regret  that  there  has  been  no  consistent,  coherent  or 
systematic commitment in the referral of situations to 
18-34755
23/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
the  International  Criminal  Court,  an  issue  that  must 
be rectified. In that regard, we welcome proposals for 
the Security Council to refer cases in a more consistent 
and  predictable  manner,  as  well  as  those  aimed  at 
establishing  specific  procedures  to  process  cases 
involving  non-compliance  with  the  Court’s  orders. 
We  also  reiterate  our  concerns  about  funding  the 
Court,  especially  with  regard  to  those  cases  referred 
by the Security Council. We must find ways that will 
create predictable funding so as to enable the Court to 
adequately examine all cases under its jurisdiction.
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  our  firm  belief  in  the 
important  role  that  the  International  Criminal  Court 
plays in preventing impunity and helping punish those 
responsible  for  the  worst  atrocities  committed  in  the 
world.  Peru  has  learned  from  its  own  experience  that 
the implementation of accountability mechanisms is the 
best way to prevent serious violations of human rights 
and international humanitarian law from recurring and 
to achieve sustainable peace.
Mr.  Van  Oosterom  (Netherlands):  The  Kingdom 
of  the  Netherlands  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  by 
the observer of the European Union.
We  thank  Mexico  for  the  excellent  work  in 
facilitating the draft resolution (A/73/L.8) on the report 
(see  A/73/334)  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC).
We would like to join others in expressing gratitude 
to President Eboe-Osuji for his excellent presentation. 
The  annual  report  provides  a  clear  overview  of  the 
considerable  work  done  during  the  reporting  period 
as  well  as  of  the  challenges  that  we  face  ahead.  The 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  is  a  firm  supporter  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  we  are  proud 
to host the Court in The Hague. I will focus on three 
issues  —  first,  the  fight  against  impunity;  secondly, 
the  current  challenges  facing  the  Court;  and,  thirdly, 
universality.
First,  concerning  the  fight  against  impunity,  the 
Rome Statute was adopted 20 years ago. Since then the 
International  Criminal  Court  has  established  itself  as 
a main actor in the fight against impunity. The Court 
plays a key role in achieving a culture of accountability 
and  sustainable  peace.  It  brings  justice  to  those 
responsible for the most serious crimes when States are 
unwilling or unable to do so themselves. Unfortunately, 
today the battle against impunity has become even more 
pressing and urgent. The international community must 
redouble  its  efforts  to  enable  the  Court  to  live  up  to 
its  full  potential.  States  must  take  up  their  primary 
responsibility  to  prosecute  atrocity  crimes,  but  as 
long  as  that  does  not  happen,  we  have  to  continue  to 
strengthen the International Criminal Court, politically 
as well as financially.
That  brings  me  to  my  second  point,  the  current 
challenges facing the Court. As set out in the report, the 
Court’s  judicial  activities  are  increasing  rapidly.  The 
growing workload reflects the widely held trust in the 
Court  but  also  brings  with  it  many  challenges,  which 
the Court should not face alone. As the Court has itself 
repeatedly  underlined,  it  has  to  rely  on  States  parties 
to  exercise  its  mandate  effectively.  The  Court  needs 
sufficient  means  to  handle  its  increasing  workload 
efficiently. Furthermore, States should cooperate with 
the Court, including by promptly executing outstanding 
arrest  warrants.  Voluntary  cooperation  on  the  part  of 
States is vital for the effective and efficient functioning 
of the Court. I am talking about framework agreements 
regarding  witness  relocation  and  the  enforcement 
of  sentences.  Additionally,  cases  of  non-compliance 
should be addressed through concrete actions by States 
parties and the Security Council. States parties should 
support and facilitate the work of the Court throughout 
the various stages of its judicial proceedings.
That brings me to my third point, on universality. 
This year we are celebrating the twentieth anniversary 
of the Rome Statute and the fact that jurisdiction over 
the crime of aggression has been activated. Up to this 
very  day,  we  have  seen  State  parties,  international 
organizations  and  civil  society  united  in  their  efforts 
to honour those achievements. By voicing their support 
and  advocating  for  global  support,  they  emphasize 
that  the  International  Criminal  Court  truly  does 
embody  norms  and  values  that  are  both  fundamental 
and universal. We hope that those positive signals will 
resonate  throughout  the  international  community  and 
encourage States Members of the United Nations that 
have  not  done  so  to  ratify  the  Rome  Statute  and  join 
us in our fight against impunity. We also call on States 
that have given notice of their withdrawal to reconsider 
that decision. Universal ratification of the Rome Statute 
is necessary for the Court to exercise its mandate more 
effectively. We must therefore not waver in our efforts 
but  continue  to  strive  for  universality,  during  this 
commemorative year and beyond.
Ms. Rodríguez Abascal (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
The delegation of Cuba takes note of the report of the 
24/26 
18-34755
29/10/2018 
A/73/PV.27
Secretary-General  (A/73/335)  and  expresses  its  firm 
commitment  to  the  fight  against  impunity  for  crimes 
affecting the international community.
The  current  situation  in  the  world,  as  well  as  the 
events of the past several years, clearly demonstrates the 
need for an autonomous international judicial institution 
to lead the fight against impunity for the most serious 
crimes.  However,  we  believe  that  the  broad  powers 
granted to the Security Council pursuant to article 16 
of  the  Rome  Statute  in  connection  with  the  work  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  blur  the  lines 
as to the Court’s status as an independent institution. 
In  addition  to  undermining  the  very  jurisdiction  of 
the  Court,  this  violates  the  basic  principles  of  the 
independence of judicial bodies and transparency and 
impartiality  in  the  administration  of  justice.  Security 
Council referrals to the Court substantiate that negative 
trend,  which  my  country  has  mentioned  on  a  number 
of  occasions.  International  law  is  constantly  violated 
in  the  process  of  Security  Council  referrals,  while 
developing countries are attacked based on a putative 
fight  against  impunity.  Cuba  therefore  reiterates  its 
position in favour of the establishment of a system of 
international  criminal  jurisdiction  that  is  impartial, 
non-selective, effective, fair, complementary to national 
justice  systems,  truly  independent  and  consequently 
free  from  any  subordination  to  political  interests  that 
might undermine its purpose.
Cuba  reiterates  that  the  International  Criminal 
Court  cannot  ignore  international  treaties  and  the 
principles of international law. The Court must respect 
the principle of law relating to the consent of a State to 
be bound by a treaty, pursuant to article 11 of the Vienna 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties  of  23  May  1969. 
Cuba  reaffirms  its  deep  concern  about  the  precedent 
established by the Court’s decisions to initiate judicial 
proceedings  against  nationals  of  States  not  party  to 
the  Rome  Statute  and  that  have  not  even  accepted  its 
jurisdiction  pursuant  to  article  12  of  the  Statute.  On 
the other hand, the jurisdiction of the ICC must remain 
independent  of  the  political  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations and always function in complementarity with 
international criminal jurisdictions. The Rome Statute 
was not established to replace national courts.
The  people  of  Cuba  have  been  the  victims  of 
very diverse forms of aggression for almost 60 years. 
Harassment and aggression have resulted in thousands 
of  deaths  and  injuries  in  our  country.  Hundreds  of 
families  have  lost  children,  parents  or  siblings,  in 
addition to undergoing incalculable property, economic 
and  financial  losses.  The  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression agreed on at the Kampala Review Conference 
in 2010, however, does not even come close to covering 
some of those elements. The definition of the crime of 
aggression  should  be  established  generically  so  that 
it  encompasses  all  forms  of  aggression  that  arise  in 
international  relations  among  States.  It  should  not  be 
limited to the use of armed force but should also address 
aggression in the context of the sovereignty, territorial 
integrity and political independence of States.
The  International  Criminal  Court  must  report  on 
its  activities  to  the  General  Assembly  based  on  the 
provisions of the Relationship Agreement between the 
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
Although Cuba is not party to the ICC, it stands ready 
to  continue  participating  actively  in  the  negotiation 
processes concerning the Court, especially with regard 
to  the  annual  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the 
International Criminal Court.
In conclusion, Cuba reaffirms its resolve to combat 
impunity and maintains its commitment to international 
criminal  justice  and  adherence  to  the  principles  of 
transparency,  independence  and  impartiality,  as  well 
as  the  unrestricted  application  of  and  respect  for 
international law.
Mr.  Tichy  (Austria):  My  delegation  fully  aligns 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  observer  of  the 
European Union, and I would like to add some points in 
our national capacity.
Strengthening effective multilateralism, the rules-
based  global  order  and  our  multilateral  institutions  is 
one of the goals enshrined in the Global Strategy of the 
European Union Common Foreign and Security Policy 
as well as a priority of the current Austrian presidency 
of the Council of the European Union. Multilateralism 
and respect for international law, including human rights 
law,  international  humanitarian  law  and  international 
criminal  law,  are  cornerstones  of  the  rules-based 
international  system.  In  that  system,  we  must  ensure 
that  the  perpetrators  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity,  war  crimes  and  aggression  are  brought  to 
justice and, if necessary, through international criminal 
justice  mechanisms  when  national  jurisdictions  are 
unwilling  or  unable  to  prosecute  the  most  serious 
crimes of international concern.
It  was  for  that  purpose  that  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  was  created,  20  years  ago,  to 
18-34755
25/26
A/73/PV.27 
29/10/2018
complement national sovereignty and not usurp it, as its 
President, Judge Chile Eboe-Osuji, so ably explained in 
his statement this morning. The jurisdiction of the ICC 
is complementary to national criminal justice and arises 
only where a State is unable or unwilling to investigate 
and prosecute the most serious crimes of international 
concern.  In  the  case  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute, the delegated jurisdiction of the ICC may arise 
when such crimes are committed on their territory or 
by their nationals. That is fully in accordance with the 
sovereignty of those States and their responsibility for 
the prosecution of crimes committed on their territory 
or by their nationals.
judicial 
Let  me  affirm  Austria’s  strong  support  for  the 
International  Criminal  Court  as  an  independent  and 
impartial 
institution.  Austria  particularly 
welcomes  the  consensus  activation  of  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over 
the  crime  of  aggression  as  of 
17 July 2018 as another leap forward in the fight against 
impunity.  We  regret  that  that  important  development 
could not be reflected in the draft resolution (A/73/L.8).
This  year  we  celebrate  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of the adoption of the Rome Statute. The establishment 
of the ICC was a major step for international criminal 
justice. However, the ICC needs our continued support 
and  cooperation,  particularly  in  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations,  so  it  can  meet  the  expectations  of 
victims  and  survivors  that  justice  is  being  done.  We 
must also increase our prevention efforts by enhancing 
international  cooperation  and  strengthening  national 
jurisdictions.
Austria has already incorporated all Rome Statute 
crimes  —  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war 
crimes and the crime of aggression — into its national 
criminal  code,  which  enables  national  criminal 
prosecution  of  those  crimes.  Austria  will  continue 
to  advocate  for  a  strong  and  effective  International 
Criminal  Court  that  delivers  justice  and  thereby  lays 
the groundwork for reconciliation and lasting peace.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
26/26 
18-34755
