United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
43rd plenary meeting
Friday, 30 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 39 (continued)
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People 
(А/73/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (А/73/346)
Note by the Secretary-General (А/73/201)
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.31, A/73/L.32, 
А/73/L.33 and А/73/L.34)
Mr. Yaakob (Malaysia): At the outset, my delegation 
wishes to thank the Permanent Representative of Senegal 
for  having  introduced  yesterday  (see  A/73/PV.42)  the 
four draft resolutions contained in documents A/73/L.31, 
entitled “Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People”;  A/73/L.32,  entitled 
“Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”; 
A/73/L.33,  entitled  “Special  information  programme 
on the question of Palestine of the Department of Public 
Information of the Secretariat”; and A/73/L.34, entitled 
“Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat”. We 
also  wish  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Malta for introducing the report of the Committee on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/73/35) at yesterday’s meeting.
As  in  previous  years,  Malaysia  is  pleased  to 
co-sponsor  the  four  important  draft  resolutions  under 
this agenda item, which remain critical in highlighting 
the  important  aspects  of  the  question  of  Palestine, 
in  accordance  with  the  long-standing  principles  on 
Palestine,  supported  by  the  international  community. 
More  than  70  years  have  elapsed  since  the  General 
Assembly adopted resolution 181 (II), which provided 
for the partition of Palestine, ostensibly predicated on the 
establishment  of  two  sovereign  States.  Unfortunately, 
the  establishment  of  only  one  State  —  Israel  —  was 
brought to fruition in 1948.
In  the  intervening  decades,  Israel  has  sought  to 
extinguish the legitimate right to self-determination of 
the  Palestinian  people.  The  civilian  population  of  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  continues  to  endure 
repression at the hands of Israel, which persists in its 
flagrant violations of international law. The adoption of 
the Jewish nation-State law in July 2018, the aggressive 
expansion  of  Israeli  settlements  and  the  relentless 
disproportionate use of force against unarmed civilians 
involved  in  the  Great  March  of  Return  are  but  recent 
examples of a long-standing pattern of systematic abuse 
meted out against the oppressed people of Palestine.
Efforts towards the establishment of an independent 
State  of  Palestine  based  on  the  pre-1967  borders  will 
remain an integral part of the foreign policy framework 
of  the  new  Malaysian  Administration.  Malaysia  has 
consistently  advanced  a  principled  position  on  this 
matter in various international forums, including during 
its tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security 
Council in 2015 and 2016. For example, on 23 December 
2016, Malaysia, together with New Zealand, Senegal and 
Venezuela, worked towards the adoption of resolution 
2334  (2016),  which  signified  a  major  breakthrough 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-40536 (E)
*1840536*

A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
for  the  Palestinian  cause.  The  resolution  affirms  that 
Israel’s  establishment  of  settlements  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  including  East  Jerusalem,  has 
no  legal  validity  and  constitutes  a  flagrant  violation 
of  international  law.  The  resolution  also  calls,  inter 
alia, for the cessation of all Israeli settlement activities 
and the reversal of negative trends on the ground that 
prejudice the realization of a two-State solution.
Unfortunately, Israel’s illegal conduct has continued 
unabated,  to  the  great  detriment  of  Palestinians.  It  is 
indeed  tragic  that  the  interests  of  innocent  civilians, 
including  women  and  children,  have 
long  been 
superseded by extraneous factors that render the major 
Powers unable or unwilling to hold Israel accountable 
for its actions.
Notwithstanding 
the  asymmetries 
in  military 
power  and  political  influence  between  Israel  and 
Palestine,  the  moral  persuasiveness  and  steadfastness 
of  the  latter’s  struggle  remain  undiminished.  Even  in 
the  most  turbulent  of  times,  the  Palestinian  people 
remain  resilient,  retaining  hope  for  a  future  in  which 
they will assume their rightful place as a full and equal 
member of the community of nations. Their aspirations 
should not be denied any longer.
Malaysia  continues  to  believe  that  a  two-State 
solution, in which the Palestinians and the Israelis live 
side by side in peace, based on the pre-1967 borders, with 
East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine, is the only 
viable solution to this long-standing conflict. Malaysia 
remains  firmly  committed  to  concerted  multilateral 
efforts aimed at ending the longest occupation in modern 
history through the establishment of a sovereign State 
of Palestine. The international community’s demand of 
Israel is very simple: comply with all relevant General 
Assembly and Security Council resolutions, as well as 
relevant international law.
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 
Spanish):  Nicaragua  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
delivered by the representative of Venezuela on behalf 
of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and by the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Senegal  and  Malta  in 
their respective capacities as Chair and Rapporteur of 
the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights 
of the Palestinian People (see A/73/PV.42).
It  is  an  honour  to  share  with  and  read  out  to  the 
Assembly  the  message  of  President  Daniel  Ortega 
Saavedra  and  First  Lady  and  Vice-President  Rosario 
Murillo  to  commemorate  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  addressed  to 
our friend Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the State 
of Palestine.
“My  esteemed  brother,  on  the  occasion  of 
the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People, on behalf of the Government of 
Reconciliation and National Unity, the Sandinista 
National Liberation Front, the people of Nicaragua, 
Rosario  and  myself,  I  wish  to  extend  to  you  our 
most  sincere  expression  of  solidarity  with  the 
heroic  Palestinian  people,  while  reaffirming  our 
full support for their tireless struggle for freedom 
and  the  full  exercise  of  their  inalienable  right  to 
self-determination, including the establishment of 
a  Palestinian  State,  based  on  the  pre-4  June  1967 
borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We 
pay tribute today to the life, legacy, steadfastness 
and conviction of our very dear brother, President 
Yasser  Arafat,  leader  of  the  struggle  for  the 
liberation  of  Palestine,  and  to  his  commitment  to 
the  Palestinian  people.  We  remember  his  historic 
visit to Nicaragua in July 1980.
“Comrade  President  Mahmoud  Abbas,  we 
personally commend you and call attention to your 
steadfast  struggle,  while  advocating  diplomacy 
and  negotiations,  as  well  as  the  holding  of  an 
international  conference  to  find  a  solution  to  the 
question of Palestine, which we welcome. Nicaragua 
believes  that  achieving  peace  and  stability  in  the 
Middle  East  is  feasible  through  negotiations  and 
the  full  implementation  of  the  relevant  General 
Assembly  and  Security  Council  resolutions  on 
the  question  of  Palestine,  in  particular  Security 
Council  resolution  2334  (2016),  of  December 
2016,  which  are  the  legal  instruments  based  on 
international law to achieve peace and stability in 
the  region.  Our  peoples  enjoy  a  very  special  and 
historical relationship, and, together with the rest of 
the international community, we deem it necessary 
to step up efforts to realize the establishment of the 
Palestinian State through peaceful means, thereby 
ensuring just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
“With everlasting affection and love, we once 
again  express  the  greetings  of  the  Sandinista 
movement  and  are  certain  that,  over  time,  our 
eternally  brotherly  peoples  will  continue 
to 
strengthen 
revolutionary 
bonds,  which  have  united  us  in  our  resolve  for  a 
better world.”
fraternal  and 
those 
2/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
Mr.  Pirez  Pérez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
thank  the  representative  of  Malta  for  introducing 
(see  A/73/PV.42)  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People (A/73/35).
We express our unwavering solidarity and support to 
the Palestinian Government and people for the accession 
of  Palestine  as  a  full  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. Cuba reaffirms its unwavering solidarity with 
the Palestinian people and its commitment to continue 
supporting them in the legitimate struggle for justice, 
dignity  and  peace,  as  our  Foreign  Minister  made 
clear  in  his  message  of  solidarity  to  the  Palestinian 
people yesterday on behalf of the Cuban Government 
and people.
Cuba  also  reiterates  its  demand  to  immediately 
end the prolonged and illegal Israeli occupation of the 
Palestinian  territories  and  the  blockade  of  the  Gaza 
Strip  that  has  lasted  for  more  than  a  decade.  A  two-
State  solution  and  a  comprehensive,  just,  peaceful 
and lasting settlement of the Palestinian question will 
not  be  possible  as  long  as  Israel  continues  to  violate 
international  law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and the relevant United Nations resolutions, including 
Security Council resolution 2334 (2016), in the occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem.
Cuba expresses its deep concern about the situation 
in the Middle East region, which is plagued by violence, 
interference in internal affairs, foreign aggression and 
long-standing conflicts, such as the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict at the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict. It is time 
to settle historical debts with the State of Palestine and 
restore the inalienable rights of its people, which have 
been violated by Israel during 50 years of occupation, 
repression,  collective  punishment, 
the  destruction 
and  confiscation  of  Palestinian  land  and  property, 
forced displacements and colonialist settlements in the 
occupied Palestinian territories.
Cuba reiterates in the strongest terms its rejection 
of  Israel’s  use  of  disproportionate  and  indiscriminate 
force  against  Palestinian  civilians  in  the  occupied 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem  and  particularly 
the  Gaza  Strip,  in  grave  and  flagrant  violation  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
humanitarian law. We condemn once again the illegal 
construction  and  expansion  of  Israeli  settlements  in 
the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  the  demolition 
and seizure of Palestinian property. All such measures, 
together with the blockade of the Gaza Strip, violate the 
Fourth Geneva Convention and weaken the viability of 
a two-State solution.
We  reiterate  our  unconditional  support  for  a 
comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict,  based  on  the  establishment  of 
two States, that would allow the Palestinian people to 
exercise  its  right  to  self-determination  and  enjoy  an 
independent  and  sovereign  State  within  the  pre-1967 
borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital and the right 
of  return  for  refugees.  We  reject  the  unilateral  action 
taken  by  the  United  States  to  establish  diplomatic 
representation in the city of Jerusalem, thereby further 
increasing tensions in the region.
Cuba  once  again  calls  for  Israel’s  total  and 
unconditional  withdrawal  from  the  Syrian  Golan  and 
all other occupied Arab territories. We recall that any 
measure or action aimed at modifying the legal, physical 
and  demographic  status  and  institutional  structure  of 
the occupied Syrian Golan, as well as Israel’s measures 
to  exercise  its  jurisdiction  and  administration  in  that 
territory, constitute violations of international law and 
the Charter of the United Nations.
Lastly, we call for respect for multilateralism and 
the Charter, and for an end to interference in the internal 
affairs of others, foreign aggression and the sponsorship 
of terrorist groups to foment instability and conflict in 
the Middle East, as well as the invention of pretexts and 
rationales in an attempt to legitimize the unilateral use 
of force and aggression against sovereign States.
Ms.  Al-Thani  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank 
you, Madam President, for convening today’s meeting. 
I also thank the Chair of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People for 
his statement (see A/73/PV.42). I take this opportunity 
to express my gratitude for the valuable efforts of the 
Committee,  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  and 
the special information programme on the question of 
Palestine of the Department of Public Information.
Amid the dangerous crises throughout the Middle 
East  that  have  been  the  focus  of  the  United  Nations, 
the Palestinian question remains the core and longest-
standing  issue  that  the  General  Assembly  has  been 
considering. This year marks the seventieth anniversary 
of  the  Nakba  —  the  Palestinian  catastrophe  —  the 
tragic repercussions of which the Palestinians continue 
to  suffer.  Over  the  past  seven  decades,  that  issue  has 
been  a  hallmark  at  the  international  level,  leading  to 
18-40536
3/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
the complete rejection by the international community 
of  the  Israeli  occupation  and  illegal  settlements,  as 
well  as  violations  of  international  law  and  the  rights 
of the Palestinian people. The international community 
has also shown its full solidarity with the Palestinian 
people’s  efforts  to  exercise  their  inalienable  rights. 
As members of the international community, we must 
continue  to  shoulder  our  responsibilities  with  regard 
to  that  issue  until  a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive 
settlement is reached. That would have a positive impact 
on regional and international peace and security.
The  State  of  Qatar  reiterates  its  support  for 
international  efforts  aimed  at  achieving  peace  in  the 
Middle East and settling the Palestinian question, based 
on  the  agreed  terms  of  reference,  the  international 
resolutions  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative,  as  well  as 
the  principle  of  the  two-State  solution,  with  Israel 
and Palestine living side by side in peace and security 
within the 1967 borders; an end to the Israeli occupation 
of the occupied Arab territories, including the Syrian 
Golan;  ensuring  all  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people; 
and achieving a just solution to the issue of refugees, in 
accordance with resolution 194 (III).
The  various  annual  resolutions  on  the  Palestinian 
question and the Middle East adopted by the General 
Assembly  have  enjoyed  long-standing  international 
unanimity  with  respect  to  the  various  aspects  of  that 
issue,  which  highlights  the  importance  of  respect  for 
the principles of international law and the purposes of 
the Charter of the United Nations. It calls for a complete 
halt  to  all  Israeli  settlement  activities  and  unilateral 
measures 
territories, 
including East Jerusalem. Such measures run contrary 
to international law and aim to change the legal status 
and demographic composition of Jerusalem.
the  occupied  Palestinian 
in 
The  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip  is  worrisome,  as 
the  humanitarian  situation  suffered  by  its  population 
is deteriorating as a result of the unjust blockade, now 
entering its eleventh year. The State of Qatar is deeply 
committed  to  providing  humanitarian  assistance.  In 
that  regard,  His  Highness  Sheikh  Tamim  bin  Hamad 
Al-Thani,  Emir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  has  ordered 
the  provision  of  urgent  assistance  in  the  amount  of 
$150 million to alleviate the difficult situation in Gaza 
and ensure the necessary supply of fuel for producing 
electricity. His efforts are part of the State of Qatar’s 
resolve  to  play  a  positive  role  in  promoting  stability, 
which is a prerequisite to establishing peace.
As  the  issue  of  the  Middle  East  persists,  so  does 
the  need  to  continue  the  work  of  the  various  relevant 
United Nations organs, agencies and programmes, most 
notably the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), which 
is one of the oldest and largest United Nations agencies 
that  plays  an  essential  role  in  supporting  millions  of 
Palestinian refugees. The State of Qatar has stepped up 
its financial assistance to UNRWA by providing it with 
$50 million dollars this year, which contributed to the 
timely annual opening of UNRWA schools.
In conclusion, on the occasion of the International 
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People,  we 
reaffirm  the  State  of  Qatar’s  full  solidarity  with  the 
brotherly Palestinian people. We underscore once again 
that  the  State  of  Qatar  will  pursue  its  commitment 
to  promoting  their  legitimate  rights  and  supporting 
efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East, based on 
international  terms  of  reference  and  the  principle  of 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  while  striving  to 
end  all  the  conflicts  being  endured  by  the  peoples  of 
the region.
join  others 
to 
Mr.  Islam  (Bangladesh):  We 
in 
reaffirming  our  delegation’s  commitment 
the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  people  of  Palestine  on  the 
auspicious  occasion  of 
the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  We  reiterate 
our principled support for draft resolutions A/73/L.31, 
A/73/L.32, А/73/L.33 and А/73/L.34, which are before 
us today.
We  support  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people 
to  self-determination  and  their  long  struggle  for 
peace and justice. Our unwavering solidarity with the 
Palestinian  people  and  their  legitimate  aspiration  to 
an  independent  State  of  Palestine,  based  on  the  1967 
borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital, stems from 
our constitutional obligation.
Bangladesh  condemns  the  heinous  attacks  on 
the  people  of  Palestine  and  denounces  the  illegal 
settlements,  including  the  expansion  plans,  and  any 
other  action  by  the  occupying  force  that  obstructs 
negotiations  towards  a  viable  two-State  solution.  The 
human  rights  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  remains  a  grave  concern  for  the  world 
community and the Organization. Foreign occupation, 
which has subjected the Palestinian people to gross and 
systematic human rights violations and untold pain and 
4/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
suffering,  remains  one  of  the  root  causes  of  conflicts 
and other scourges around the world.
Bangladesh urges the comity of nations to prevail 
upon Israel to immediately halt its illegal settlements in 
the occupied Palestinian territories, lift the blockade in 
the Gaza Strip and put an end to all forms of occupation 
and  violence.  We  remain  concerned  over  the  total 
disregard by Israel of the provisions of Security Council 
resolution  2234  (2016).  Immediate  priority  must  be 
given  to  ensuring  international  protection  for  the 
Palestinian people, who have suffered for decades from 
the occupying Power’s policy of collective punishment.
international 
humanitarian 
rights 
violations  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  have 
given rise to an egregious culture of impunity. In the 
absence  of  effective  international  accountability,  the 
occupying  Power  continues  to  persecute  Palestinian 
civilians,  imprison  and  abuse  scores  of  Palestinians 
in  its  detention  centres,  and  dispossess  and  evict 
thousands of Palestinian families through its unlawful 
construction and expansion of settlements.
law  and  systematic  human 
breaches 
The 
continued 
of 
Bangladesh  continues  to  insist  on  the  lifting  of 
the  illegal  Israeli  blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip,  which 
has created a dire humanitarian situation. Provocative 
policies and legal measures concerning occupied East 
Jerusalem  and  the  Holy  Al-Aqsa  Mosque  must  be 
reversed  in  deference  to  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  and 
international  public  opinion.  We 
reaffirm  the  overriding  importance  of  preserving  the 
question of East Jerusalem as a final-status issue in the 
peace  process.  We  reiterate  the  Assembly’s  assertion 
that  any  decision  or  action  that  seeks  to  alter  the 
character,  status  or  demographic  composition  of  the 
holy city of Jerusalem has no legal effect, is null and 
void and must be rescinded in compliance with relevant 
resolutions of the Security Council.
We  reiterate  our  concern  over  the  prolonged 
uncertain situation endured by millions of Palestinian 
refugees in a number of host countries. We reaffirm the 
need  to  ensure  enhanced,  predictable  and  sustainable 
funding  for  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA). We call upon Member States in a position 
to do so to enable UNRWA to discharge its mandate in 
a meaningful manner.
Bangladesh believes that if a lasting peace for the 
people and the State of Palestine is to be achieved, the 
timely  implementation  of  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions,  the  road  map,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative 
and  the  efforts  made  by  the  Quartet  is  of  paramount 
importance.  We  thank  Egypt  for  its  recent  initiatives 
aimed at de-escalating tension in the region. As Chair 
of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  Council 
of  Foreign  Ministers,  we  will  continue  to  work  with 
the  international  community  for  a  resolution  of  the 
Palestinian question.
Before concluding, let me quote from the message 
delivered  by  my  Prime  Minister  on  the  occasion  of 
this  year’s  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People:
“We must not let the hope of peace fade away. 
We must, and I believe we will, resume the peace 
process  without  any  further  delay.  We  urge  all 
concerned  to  be  pragmatic  in  their  approach  and 
work together, hand in hand, for the establishment 
of  an  independent  homeland  for  the  Palestinian 
people where they can live in peace and in dignity 
side by side with their neighbours.”
Mr. Al-Mouallimi (Saudi Arabia) (spoke in Arabic): 
At the outset, I would like to express my gratitude for 
the  efforts  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People to uphold 
the legitimate rights of the brotherly Palestinian people 
in order to enable them to exercise their rights, which 
are guaranteed by the relevant international resolutions.
Today  marks  the  seventieth  anniversary  of  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  or  what  is  known  as  the  Day  of  Al-Nakba. 
Seventy  years  have  elapsed  since 
the  greatest 
humanitarian disaster in the world. It was embodied by 
the expulsion of the owners of the land, the accordance 
of  rights  to  those  who  did  not  have  them  and  the 
deprivation of the rights of their lawful holders. Seventy 
years have elapsed since the displacement of an entire 
people from their homeland, their properties seized and 
their  homes  demolished.  Seventy  years  have  elapsed 
and the Palestinian people continue to suffer alienation 
from their homeland and the loss of families. Seventy 
years have elapsed and the Palestinian people continue 
to suffer the consequences of an occupation that does 
not respect any international, ethical or human law.
It is regrettable that the occupation remains an issue 
of  debate  in  this  century.  The  Arab-Israeli  conflict 
remains  the  most  protracted  current  conflict  in  the 
Arab region, with all its miseries, pains and violations 
18-40536
5/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
against  humanity.  Nothing  justifies  the  continuation 
of  that  conflict,  as  the  international  community  has 
reached  consensus  vis-à-vis  the  need  to  uphold  the 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-determination 
and to establish their Palestinian State based on the 1967 
borders, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, in line 
with the Arab Peace Initiative, which was submitted by 
my country and recognized by the States of the world, 
and the relevant international resolutions.
Through  its  repeated  aggressions  and  violations, 
Israel  has  demonstrated  that  it  considers  itself  to  be 
above the law. It fails to respect international resolutions 
and  benefits  from  the  silence  of  the  international 
community by not addressing its war crimes, including 
the unjust blockade imposed on the Gaza Strip, which 
has  aggravated  the  humanitarian  situation  there.  Not 
satisfied merely with building the apartheid wall, which 
runs counter to all democratic and humanitarian values, 
Israel  has  also  adopted  the  Jewish  nation-State  law, 
which  publicly  consecrates  racism  and  discrimination 
against  the  Palestinian  people,  who  are  the  rightful 
landowners and right holders.
The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  condemns  Israeli 
violations  and  reaffirms  its  complete  rejection  of  all 
Israeli  policies,  practices  and  plans  that  are  illegal, 
null  and  void.  We  reject  Israeli  attempts  to  practise 
racial  discrimination  against  the  Palestinian  people, 
erase  their  national  identity  and  infringe  on  their 
legitimate rights. My country also strongly condemns 
the illegal Israeli practices of constructing settlements 
on  territories  of  the  State  of  Palestine  occupied  since 
1967.  Israel  also  expands  existing  settlements  so  as 
to  jeopardize  any  remaining  possibility  of  achieving 
the  two-State  solution.  Moreover,  such  settlement 
practices  constitute  a  flagrant  breach  of  international 
law and the relevant international charters, conventions 
and resolutions.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia attaches paramount 
importance to the Palestinian question. For us, it is the 
uppermost  issue,  as  confirmed  by  the  Custodian  of 
the  Two  Holy  Mosques,  King  Salman  Bin  Abdulaziz 
Al-Saud, during the Arab League Summit, also known 
as  the  Jerusalem  Summit,  held  in  Dhahran  in  April. 
The  Assembly  recalls  our  honourable  stance  towards 
the  Palestinian  people.  The  Kingdom  stresses  the 
importance  of  achieving  a  comprehensive  and  lasting 
peace  in  the  Middle  East  as  a  strategic  means  of 
ending the Arab-Israeli conflict, in line with the two-
State  solution,  the  international  terms  of  reference 
and the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative, which ensures the 
establishment of a Palestinian State based on the 4 June 
1967  borders,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its  capital, 
and  of  putting  an  end  to  the  Israeli  occupation  of  all 
Arab territories, including the Syrian Arab Golan and 
the Lebanese territories.
In  conclusion,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  is  a 
sponsor of the draft resolutions before us, concerning 
Palestine,  and  will  vote  in  favour  of  them,  as  they 
embody the position of the Kingdom towards supporting 
the Palestinian question. We believe in the right of the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  to  an  independent  State 
that fulfils their dreams and ambitions.
We  are  stunned  by  the  attempts  of  Israel  and 
its  allies  to  submit  a  draft  resolution  that  seeks  to 
divert  attention  from  the  core  of  that  issue.  The  core 
of  the  Palestinian  question  is  the  occupation  and  the 
blockade — nothing else. Therefore, draft resolutions 
submitted  to  divert  attention  from  the  suffering  of 
the  Palestinian  people  and  from  the  unjust  practices 
carried  out  by  Israel  are  merely  attempts  to  justify 
the  occupation.  Those  attempts  are  not  accepted  or 
permitted by the General Assembly.
Mr.  Bessedik  (Algeria):  I  thank  you,  Madam 
President, for convening this important annual debate 
on  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the  situation  in  the 
Middle East.
My delegation would also like to express its deep 
appreciation to the members of the Committee on the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  for  recommending  the  four  draft  resolutions 
before us, and to thank the Chair and the Rapporteur 
for their introductions, as well as for the introduction of 
the Committee’s annual report (A/73/35).
On  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian People, my delegation wishes to express, in 
its national capacity, its serious preoccupation with the 
continued systematic pattern of violations of the human 
rights of the Palestinian people and of other Arabs in the 
occupied territories. The expansion of Israeli settlement 
activities, along with the brutality of the Israeli settlers, 
the Israeli exploitation of the natural resources of the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  and  the  Syrian  Golan 
Heights,  the  confiscation  of  land,  the  demolition  of 
homes  and  the  displacement  of  Palestinian  civilians, 
are  in  violation  of  international  law,  international 
humanitarian  law  and  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions.  That  includes  the  segregation,  isolation 
6/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
and obstruction of Palestinian movement by numerous 
measures,  including  annexation,  the  apartheid  wall, 
the  permit  regime,  hundreds  of  checkpoints  and 
the  systematic  collective  punishment  of  the  entire 
Palestinian civilian population.
My delegation condemns the abuses that detainees 
and  prisoners,  including  children,  suffer  in  detention 
centres.  My  delegation  condemns  the  excessive  use 
of  force  by  the  occupying  Power  and  the  application 
of  the  death  penalty.  My  delegation  condemns  Israeli 
institutions in which Palestinians have no representation. 
Two examples of that injustice are Israel’s brutal, illegal, 
oppressive and destructive policies in the recent protests 
in Gaza and its plans for Khan Al-Ahmar, a Palestinian 
shepherding community. Some 200 people live in Khan 
Al-Ahmar, just a few kilometres east of Jerusalem, in 
an area where Israel has long endeavoured to minimize 
the Palestinian presence and expand settlements. Israel 
plans  to  raze  the  entire  community,  claiming  that  all 
structures  were  built  illegally.  But  how  could  it  be 
otherwise,  since  Palestinians  cannot  obtain  building 
permits? Palestinians are not inherently law-breakers, 
as suggested by Israel.
The  Gaza  Strip,  with  a  population  of  nearly 
2  million,  has  essentially  become  an  open-air  prison. 
The  Israeli-imposed  blockade,  which  has  continued 
for  11  years,  has  led  to  economic  collapse,  soaring 
unemployment rates, polluted drinking water and deep 
despair. Since 30 March, more than 5,000 Palestinians 
have  been  injured  by  live  Israeli  gunfire  and  more 
than 170 killed, including 31 minors, according to the 
briefing by the Executive Director of the Israeli human 
rights  organization  B’Tselem  before  the  Security 
Council on 18 October (see S/PV.8375).
In  addition  to  those  violations,  since  1967  Israel 
has continued, as the occupying Power, to violate the 
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian 
Persons in Time of War of 12 August 1949. Yet Israel 
enjoys  impunity.  It  is  pertinent  to  mention  here  that 
the international community is in favour of protecting 
civilians  and  bringing  an  end  to  Israeli  practices  and 
flagrant  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
and relevant resolutions.
Despite  the  numerous  calls  of  the  international 
community  on  Israel  to  cease  its  illegal  policies 
and  measures,  the  world  still  bears  witness  to  the 
persistence of the Israeli occupier’s policy of settlements 
on  Palestinian  land  and  the  application  of  group 
punishment through the blockade in Gaza, in flagrant 
violation of international humanitarian law and human 
rights.  The  Israeli  settlement  activities  on  Palestinian 
land,  including  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif,  and  in  the  Syrian 
Golan  Heights,  are  a  violation  of  international  law, 
including  Security  Council  resolution  2334  (2016), 
which in paragraph 1:
“[r]eaffirms  that  the  establishment  by  Israel  of 
settlements  in  the  Palestinian  territory  occupied 
since  1967,  including  East  Jerusalem,  has  no 
legal  validity  and  constitutes  a  flagrant  violation 
under international law and a major obstacle to the 
achievement  of  the  two-State  solution  and  a  just, 
lasting and comprehensive peace”.
Security  Council  resolution  497  (1981)  confirms 
the same situation regarding the Syrian Golan Heights, 
stating in paragraph 1:
“the Israeli decision to impose its laws, jurisdiction 
and  administration  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan 
Heights is null and void and without international 
legal effect”.
The  ongoing  Israeli  practices  and  violations,  in 
particular settlements, are major obstacles to the two-
State  solution.  We  urge  the  international  community 
to fulfil its obligations towards the Palestinian people, 
who  have  been  denied  the  benefit  of  human  rights 
for  more  than  70  years.  The  international  community 
must  exert  pressure  on  Israel  to  freeze  all  settlement 
activities on Palestinian land and in the occupied Arab 
territories, including the Syrian Golan Heights.
Finally, we reject any possible attempts to harm the 
integrity of long-standing General Assembly resolutions 
reaffirming the Palestinian people’s inalienable rights 
and  the  core  principles  and  internationally  endorsed 
parameters  for  the  achievement  of  a  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in line with international law, the 
relevant resolutions and the Arab Peace Initiative.
Mr. Mamdouhi (Islamic Republic of Iran): For the 
past  70  years,  the  question  of  Palestine  has  been  not 
only an Islamic-Arabic issue but also one of the most 
complicated  political  and  legal  issues  at  the  regional 
and  international  levels.  During  this  time,  the  people 
of Palestine have experienced nothing but oppression, 
displacement,  misery  and  occupation  of  their  lands. 
They  have  always  been  deprived  of  their  basic  and 
inalienable rights.
18-40536
7/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
This year, which marks the seventieth anniversary 
of the tragic Nakba of the Palestinian people in 1948, 
the military aggression against peaceful demonstrations 
by Palestinian civilians in Gaza has led to the death of 
more than 170 martyrs and the injury of thousands more 
Palestinian  citizens.  Since  its  creation,  the  occupying 
regime  has  ignored  international  law  and  defied  the 
decisions of international institutions, including many 
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council.  It  has  violated  other  international  legal 
instruments through its actions as it continues to commit 
numerous  war  crimes,  carry  out  its  apartheid  policy, 
commit  massive  and  systematic  violations  of  human 
rights, sponsor State terrorism, expand settlements and 
displace an ever-increasing number of Palestinians.
We  note  with  grave  concern  the  latest  disturbing 
developments  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories, 
as reflected in the document under consideration today 
(A/73/346).  The  injustices  have  continued  for  more 
than  seven  decades  through  systematic  and  unabated 
violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people, including the demolition of homes, the forced 
displacement  of  Palestinian  civilians,  the  arrest  and 
detention of Palestinians, including children, persistent 
acts of violence, and terror and provocations committed 
by Israeli settlers and extremists at sensitive religious 
sites,  in  particular  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque.  In  fact,  the 
occupation of Palestinian territories lies at the heart of 
the protracted situation of crisis in the Middle East. The 
Israeli  regime’s  criminal  acts  against  the  Palestinians 
and other peoples of the region are currently the gravest 
threat  posed  to  regional  and  international  peace  and 
security. Peace in the Middle East cannot be achieved 
through  the  promotion  of  a  discriminatory  policy 
of  blind  support  for  the  Israeli  regime’s  occupation, 
torture, annihilation, intimidation and aggression.
Likewise, Israel continues to flout all international 
regimes  that  govern  weapons  of  mass  destruction  by 
refusing to adhere to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons, the Chemical Weapons Convention 
and  the  Biological  Weapons  Convention.  Nuclear 
weapons  in  the  hands  of  the  Israeli  regime  pose  the 
most serious threat to the security of all States of the 
Middle East.
As  pointed  out  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  the  wrongful  and  unwise  decision  of  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  concerning  Al-Quds, 
issued  on  6  December  2017,  in  which  he  announced 
his  intention  to  relocate  the  United  States  Embassy 
to  Al-Quds,  was  severely  condemned  as  a  naked  and 
immoral aggression against the rights of the Palestinian 
people,  as  well  as  a  provocative  action  that  is  apt  to 
push  the  region  into  greater  violence  and  anarchy. 
Emboldened by the United States decision and a number 
of other changes in the political landscape, the Israeli 
regime now seems to have decided to totally negate any 
Palestinian right to statehood.
As  has  been  the  case  for  decades,  the  situation 
in  Palestine  requires  urgent  international  action  and 
attention. The Islamic Republic of Iran is of the view 
that any solution to the crisis requires the termination of 
the occupation, crimes and violations committed by the 
Israeli regime; the restoration of the inalienable rights 
of the Palestinian people to self-determination; and the 
establishment of their independent and viable State of 
Palestine, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital.
Regarding the occupation of the Golan by the Israeli 
regime, we consider the Golan to be an integral part of 
the territory of the Syrian Arab Republic. We condemn 
all measures taken by the illegitimate occupying Power 
to undermine the territorial integrity of Syria, and we 
express our deep concern over the grave deterioration 
of  the  human  rights  situation  and  the  increase  in  the 
number  of  illegal  Jewish  settlements  in  the  occupied 
Syrian Golan.
like  once  again 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to 
reiterate  our  unwavering  commitment  to  a  just  and 
comprehensive solution to the question of Palestine and 
to  the  immediate  restoration  of  the  inalienable  rights 
of the Palestinian people, including their right to self-
determination and to their independent and viable State 
of Palestine, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. In 
that regard, we maintain our support for the Palestinian 
people in their rightful and legitimate struggle against 
the occupation and for their just quest to exercise their 
right to self-determination.
Mr.  Atlassi  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  and  its  Chair,  Mr.  Cheikh  Niang,  for  the 
Committee’s  valuable  and  tireless  efforts  to  support 
justice for the Palestinian people and oversee its various 
programmes designed to enable the Palestinian people 
to achieve the just, legitimate, national and sovereign 
independence they deserve.
The  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People,  which  occurs  on  29  November, 
8/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
presented His Majesty King Mohammed VI with another 
opportunity this year to send a message of solidarity to 
the Chair of the Committee, reiterating his full support 
for  the  Palestinian  people  and  their  leaders,  first  and 
foremost,  His  Excellency  President  Mahmoud  Abbas. 
In  that  letter,  he  also  expresses  the  full,  steadfast 
and  lasting  support  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  for 
the  historical  and  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people, most notably their right to form an independent 
State that is based on the 4 June 1967 borders, with East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and  that  is  stable  and  viable, 
living  side  by  side  with  Israel  in  peace,  security  and 
safety in accordance with international resolutions.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  whose  King  presides 
over  the  Al-Quds  Committee,  is  following  with  great 
concern the escalation that Israel has chosen to pursue 
in Palestine in general, and Jerusalem in particular, to 
undermine  the  legal  status  of  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as 
defined in resolutions of international legitimacy, which 
consider it to be an inseparable part of the Palestinian 
territories occupied since 1967.
In that regard, Israel seeks religious and ideological 
conflicts through the temporal and spatial partitioning 
of Al-Quds Al-Sharif, as well as repeated, systematic 
violations against the sanctity of the Al-Aqsa Mosque 
and  its  worshippers,  while  intensifying  settlement 
activities, including in Al-Quds Al-Sharif, in violation 
of Security Council resolutions, particularly resolution 
2334  (2016).  In  his  letter,  His  Majesty  the  King  of 
Morocco asserts that:
relationship  with 
“[t]he  Moroccan  people’s 
Palestine, and in particular Al-Quds, is neither new 
nor fortuitous. It is an emotional relationship that 
is deeply rooted in the imagination of Moroccans, 
as individuals and as a nation. Moroccan pilgrims 
travelling  to  Mecca  and  Medina  used  to  visit  the 
holy city of Al-Quds — the first of the two kiblahs 
and  home  to  the  third  holy  mosque  —  given  the 
city’s  religious  and  spiritual  significance.  No 
wonder then that many of them, including scholars, 
mystics and merchants, chose to settle in Al-Quds 
and protect the holy places there.”
The issue of Al-Quds and the Palestinian question 
have always been our major concern for the following 
reasons.  We  are  committed  to  and  responsible  for  a 
just  and  legitimate  cause.  The  Palestinian  question  is 
a central issue in the Middle East and the core conflict 
in  the  region.  Achieving  a  just,  comprehensive  and 
lasting  peace  on  the  basis  of  the  two-State  solution 
and  in  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolutions 
and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  is  a  strategic  choice, 
not  a  political  manoeuvre.  The  issue  of  Al-Quds  has 
special significance not only to the Arab and Muslim 
Ummah  —  given  that  the  holy  city  is  home  to  the 
blessed Al-Aqsa Mosque — but also to all peace-loving 
people,  given  that  the  city  stands  for  tolerance  and 
interfaith coexistence. Any unilateral action affecting 
Al-Quds is unacceptable, illegal and illegitimate in that 
it  represents  a  serious  violation  of  international  law, 
including  General  Assembly  resolutions  and  Security 
Council resolutions 476 (1980) and 478 (1980), as well 
as the “Uniting for Peace” resolution ES-10/19, adopted 
in  2017  at  the  tenth  emergency  special  session  of  the 
General Assembly.
terrorist  groups  of 
Resolving  the  Palestinian  question  on  the  basis 
of  the  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  would 
deprive  extremist  and 
their 
arguments, especially as they have been exploiting the 
lack of prospects for the settlement of the Palestinian 
question  and  that  of  Al-Quds,  using  it  as  a  pretext  to 
justify their criminal agenda in the region. The illegal 
measures concerning Al-Quds fuel religious sentiment, 
given  the  spiritual  character  of  the  holy  city,  with 
the potential risk of turning a political conflict into a 
religious one. That would be extremely dangerous for 
international  peace  and  security  and  for  the  desired 
harmony  and  coexistence  between  different  cultures 
and civilizations.
His  Majesty  the  King  of  Morocco  has  confirmed 
that  it  is  not  enough  to  talk  about  Palestine  without 
addressing  the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people. 
Morocco  is  aware  of  the  difficult  conditions  that 
Palestinians  in  Gaza  are  facing.  In  2009  and  2014, 
His  Majesty  ordered  airlifts  of  medical  and  food 
assistance  based  on  our  policy  of  solidarity,  which  is 
a  cornerstone  of  Morocco’s  foreign  policy.  This  year 
during Ramadan, His Majesty personally oversaw the 
launch  of  a  humanitarian  initiative  in  Gaza,  Al-Quds 
and Ramallah.
His Majesty has also established a field hospital of 
the Royal Moroccan Armed Forces in the Gaza Strip. 
That  hospital  offers  various  medical  services.  His 
Majesty has underscored that
“[t]hose  initiatives,  which  are  for  the  benefit  of 
our  Palestinian  brothers,  complement  our  actions 
that we undertake as Chairperson of the Al-Quds 
18-40536
9/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
the  Organization  of 
Committee  of 
Islamic 
Cooperation.  We  carry  out  bilateral  political  and 
diplomatic activities and in international forums, as 
well as through field work undertaken by the Bayt 
Mal  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  Agency.  This  operational 
and  field  mechanism  of  the  Al-Quds  Committee 
works under our personal supervision to carry out 
concrete  plans  and  projects  for  the  benefit  of  our 
Jerusalemite brothers, with the aim of maintaining 
the cultural identity of the holy city and improving 
the social and living conditions of the inhabitants 
of  Al-Quds,  while  supporting  their  struggle  and 
encouraging them to remain in Al-Quds”.
The  only  correct  way  to  resolve  the  Palestinian 
question  is  not  by  war,  bloodshed  and  the  killing  of 
innocent  civilians.  Rather,  it  is  by  returning  in  good 
faith to the negotiating table within a clear framework 
to achieve the two-State solution, with two States living 
side  by  side  in  peace,  harmony,  security,  coexistence 
and  cooperation.  Morocco’s  position  on  this  conflict 
remains firm and is based on the Arab Peace Initiative, 
the agreed terms of reference and the establishment of 
an independent State of Palestine, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital, within the 4 June 1967 borders.
Therefore,  the  international  community  is  now 
more than ever called on to work to mobilize the peace 
process in accordance with the agreed time frame and 
based  on  international  foundations  and  principles. 
Morocco  is  ready  to  engage  very  actively  with  all 
initiatives aimed at moving the peace process forward 
and arriving at a settlement that would achieve security 
and stability in the region.
Mr.  Gallegos  Chiriboga  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): We thank you, Madam President, for convening 
this meeting on a date of particular significance to the 
people of the State of Palestine and of Israel.
On  29  November  1947,  the  Assembly  determined 
the  establishment  of  two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine. 
On  numerous  occasions,  my  delegation  and  others 
participating  in  the  regular  open  debates  held  by  the 
Security Council on the question of Palestine have said 
that  our  meetings  are  of  an  almost  ritual  nature.  It  is 
so, and it has become so. The date of 29 November is 
a day not of celebration but of frustration and sadness 
because  71  years  after  it  was  made,  that  commitment 
has not been fulfilled, and that failure can be measured 
in  the  lives  of  human  beings  and  in  deprivations  of 
all kinds.
In  those  71  years,  my  country  has  held  an 
unwavering position and will continue to do so because 
it is a position of principle. We recognize all the efforts 
made  throughout  those  years  by  the  various  agencies 
of the United Nations, the special representatives and 
coordinators,  as  well  as  the  various  Member  States 
involved. We must also reiterate our call for an end to 
violence, no matter where it comes from, and the need 
for  Palestinian  reconciliation  and  genuine  dialogue 
between Palestine and Israel.
The  deplorable  acts  of  violence  and  deprivation 
persist  unchanged.  The  humanitarian  crisis,  food 
dependency,  the  destruction  of  infrastructure  and  the 
deterioration of the living conditions of the Palestinians 
continue.  We  continue  to  observe  violations  of  the 
norms of international law, international humanitarian 
law and in particular the rights of Palestinian children. 
That  represents  a  complete  failure  to  comply  with 
Security Council resolution 2334 (2016), which remains 
the only guarantee of the existence of two States.
On  24  December  2010,  my  country  was  one  of 
the  first  to  recognize  the  State  of  Palestine,  and  we 
went  on  to  become  a  sponsor  of  resolution  67/19  of 
29 November 2012, which recognized Palestine’s new 
status  as  a  non-member  observer  State.  We  therefore 
reiterate our full commitment to the spirit and nature 
of all the relevant General Assembly resolutions, which 
have  consistently  upheld  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people,  and  our  belief  that  any  measures 
taken  by  Israel, the  occupying  Power,  to  impose  its 
legislation,  jurisdiction  or  administration  in  the  holy 
city  of  Jerusalem  are  illegal  and  consequently  devoid 
of any validity.
We  also  support  the  ongoing  work  within  the 
framework  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  the  right 
of  all  Palestinian  refugees  to  return  to  their  homes, 
as  affirmed  and  provided  for  in  numerous  General 
Assembly  resolutions,  most  recently  resolution  72/81, 
adopted  in  December  of  last  year.  Ecuador  urges  the 
international  community  to  make  concrete  progress 
in supporting a lasting, just political solution for both 
parties, based on the existence of two States, Palestine 
and Israel, as the only pathway to achieving peace and 
stability  in  the  Middle  East,  assure  the  Palestinian 
people of their full rights and realize the establishment 
of an independent State of Palestine incorporated into 
the  United  Nations  as  a  full-fledged  member,  as  set 
out in the 1947 resolution on the partition of Palestine 
(resolution 181 (II)).
10/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
For  those  in  the  Assembly  who  like  me  have 
witnessed countless meetings like this one over the past 
few decades, I want to stress that solving this problem 
requires a demonstration of political will on the part of 
many stakeholders but above all a clear understanding 
that  peace  is  won  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of  men, 
women  and  children,  not  at  the  point  of  a  gun  or  a 
bomb. Let us pray that we will soon achieve peace in 
the Middle East.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In  accordance 
with General Assembly resolution 48/265 of 24 August 
1994,  I  call  on  the  observer  for  the  Sovereign  Order 
of Malta.
Mr. De Rojas (Sovereign Order of Malta): I thank 
you,  Madam  President,  for  giving  us  the  opportunity 
to  take  the  floor  to  discuss  these  interconnected 
items today.
One  of  the  draft  resolutions  to  be  considered 
addresses the issue of Jerusalem (A/73/L.29), which is 
central to the question of Palestine. As the Assembly is 
aware, Jerusalem is very dear to the Sovereign Order of 
Malta, as it is the place where the Order was founded, 
more than 900 years ago, and where our first hospital 
was  built.  The  mission  to  care  for  the  sick,  the  poor 
and the most vulnerable, regardless of their nationality, 
ethnicity or religion, has remained the central purpose 
of the Order of Malta for more than nine centuries.
Like  many  others,  we  believe  that  Jerusalem 
belongs not to a single nation but rather to all of us, to 
humankind as a whole. It is a city sacred to the world’s 
three great monotheistic religions and has been a place 
of  pilgrimage  and  inspiration  for  countless  millions 
for  two  millenniums.  When  the  General  Assembly 
first  dealt  with  the  question  of  Palestine  in  1947,  it 
very  wisely  decided  to  set  up  a  special  international 
regime  for  the  city  of  Jerusalem  within  the  partition 
framework, to be administered by the United Nations. 
The boundaries of what was called a corpus separatum
were even laid out in a detailed map that was attached 
to resolution 181 (II), of 29 November 1947.
We are therefore glad to see that the draft resolution 
before  us  recalls  that  resolution  181  (II)  reaffirms 
that  the  international  community,  through  the  United 
Nations,  has  a  legitimate  interest  in  the  question  of 
Jerusalem  and  the  protection  of  the  city’s  unique 
spiritual, religious and cultural dimensions. We are also 
encouraged  by  its  reiterations  that  a  comprehensive, 
just and lasting solution to the question of the city of 
Jerusalem  should  include  internationally  guaranteed 
provisions  aimed  at  ensuring  the  freedom  of  religion 
and conscience of its inhabitants, as well as permanent, 
free and unhindered access to its holy places for people 
of all religions and nationalities.
As  the  representative  of  the  Holy  See  expressed 
when he addressed the General Assembly on this subject 
in  December  of  last  year  (see  A/ES-10/PV.37),  we 
believe  that  only  an  internationally  guaranteed  status 
can preserve Jerusalem’s unique character and ensure 
dialogue and reconciliation for peace in the region. We 
support that view, and we welcome this new and timely 
initiative by the General Assembly on the matter.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in the debate on this item.
I  would 
like 
to 
the 
consideration of draft resolutions A/73/L.31, A/73/L.32, 
A/73/L.33 and A/73/L.34 will take place following the 
conclusion of the debate on agenda item 38.
inform  members 
that 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 39.
Agenda item 38
The situation in the Middle East
Reports of the Secretary-General (А/73/322 and 
А/73/346)
Draft resolutions (А/73/L.29 and A/73/L.30)
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of Egypt to introduce draft 
resolutions А/73/L.29 and A/73/L.30.
Mr.  Tayel  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  world 
today  faces  many  humanitarian  crises 
that  are 
unfortunately concentrated in the Middle East, a region 
that has recently been plagued by increasing instability. 
We must bear in mind that one of the underlying causes 
of  that  instability  is  the  decades  of  injustices  done  to 
the Arab people during the more than 50 years of their 
suffering under the yoke of occupation. There have been 
numerous  attempts  to  exploit  the  crises  in  the  region 
in order to conceal the occupation of Arab territories, 
which  runs  counter  to  basic  humanitarian  principles 
and  perpetuates  an  illegal  situation  whose  adverse 
effects  continue  to  reverberate  all  over  the  region 
and  the  world.  The  many  years  of  the  occupation’s 
existence  have  led  to  the  acceptance  by  some  of  its 
practices  against  people  who  are  supposed  to  enjoy 
18-40536
11/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
the  same  rights  as  all  the  other  peoples  of  the  world, 
especially the right to freedom, self-determination and 
the sense of belonging to a homeland. The international 
community  is  firmly  committed  to  the  rights  of  the 
Palestinian and Syrian people. In the Assembly today, 
I am therefore introducing on behalf of their sponsors 
two  draft  resolutions  under  agenda  item  38,  entitled 
“The situation in the Middle East”.
The  first  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Jerusalem” 
(A/73/L.29), stresses the importance as a reference of 
the General Assembly and Security Council resolutions 
that deal with the special status of occupied Jerusalem. 
The  draft  resolution  emphasizes  that  all  measures 
undertaken by Israel, the occupying Power, to impose 
its  administrative  and  judicial  authority  on  the  city 
of  Jerusalem  are  illegal,  null  and  void.  In  the  draft 
resolution  the  international  community  expresses  its 
grave concern about the continuation of Israel’s illegal 
settlement activities, including the plan known as E1, 
as well as the construction of the separation wall in and 
around the city of East Jerusalem, further isolating the 
city from the rest of the Palestinian territories.
As we are committed to peace and to maintaining 
the religious significance of the city of Jerusalem, the 
draft resolution stresses the importance of taking into 
account  the  legitimate  concerns  of  both  Palestinians 
and Israelis by providing international guarantees that 
ensure religious freedom for the inhabitants of the city 
and  free  access  to  the  holy  sites  for  all,  regardless  of 
their  religion  or  nationality.  The  draft  resolution  also 
calls for respect in both word and deed for the historical 
status  of  the  holy  sites  in  Jerusalem,  including  the 
Holy Mosque.
Today it is important to note the addition made to the 
draft resolution this year emphasizing the importance 
of  Jerusalem  to  the  three  monotheistic  religions.  We 
reiterate  what  we  have  stressed  many  times  before, 
which is that the issue of Jerusalem and the Palestinian 
question as a whole is primarily a political, legal and 
humanitarian issue, not a religious one. It can therefore 
be  resolved  only  through  adherence  to  international 
law and the relevant United Nations resolutions, which 
represent  the  sole  references  to  the  relations  among 
States and peoples.
The second draft resolution, A/73/L.30, relates to 
the Syrian Golan. We are once again introducing this 
draft resolution in order to send an important message 
from  the  international  community  emphasizing  that 
the unprecedented humanitarian crisis in Syria that the 
Syrians are enduring should not make the world forget 
that an important part of Syria is occupied, and that the 
Syrian people’s right to claim that occupied land will not 
disappear with time or fail for any other reasons that our 
brother people of Syria may face. The draft resolution 
stresses once again that 35 years after the adoption of 
Security Council resolution 497 (1981), Israel has still 
not complied with its provisions. It makes reference to 
The Hague Convention of 1907 and the Fourth Geneva 
Convention  of  1949  with  regard  to  their  applicability 
to the Syrian territories that have been occupied since 
1967. It also points to the illegality of the imposition of 
Israeli laws on the Golan and of the Israeli settlements 
there. It calls on Israel to completely withdraw from the 
Golan to the borders of 4 June 1967 and to uphold what 
has already been achieved in that regard.
The  people  of  the  Middle  East  continue  to  suffer 
from the scourges of war and aggression and to aspire 
to achieving peace, stability and peaceful coexistence. 
For  decades,  United  Nations  resolutions  have  been  in 
place  that  reflect  those  aspirations,  which  will  come 
true  only  when  we  can  demonstrate  the  political 
determination  and  serious  commitment  to  ending  the 
occupation of all the Palestinian and Arab territories, in 
line with the relevant General Assembly and Security 
Council resolutions as well as the principle of land for 
peace and international law.
In conclusion, on behalf of all the sponsors of the 
two  draft  resolutions  as  well  as  myself,  I  call  on  all 
Member States to support the two draft resolutions. I 
urge everyone in the Hall to vote for them with a view 
to  preventing  the  elimination  of  people’s  legal  rights 
while  stressing  the  strong  will  of  the  international 
community  and  upholding  the  noble  purposes  and 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the Organization.
Mr.  Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): I thank the representative of the Arab Republic 
of  Egypt  for  introducing  today’s  draft  resolutions 
A/73/L.30 and A/73/L.29, entitled “The Syrian Golan” 
and  “Jerusalem”.  I  also  thank  all  the  sponsors  of  the 
draft resolution on the Syrian Golan and those who vote 
in favour of it.
The General Assembly has considered the agenda 
item  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East  every  year 
since its twenty-fifth session in 1970. In every session, 
the Assembly has called on Israel to end its occupation 
of the Arab territories and affirmed that any measures 
12/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
taken  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to  impose  its 
legislation, jurisdiction and administrative authority on 
the city of Jerusalem and the Syrian Golan are illegal, 
illegitimate, null and void. The Assembly’s resolutions 
are  fully  aligned  with  the  unanimous  position  of  the 
Security  Council  in  its  resolutions  478  (1980),  on 
occupied  Jerusalem,  and  497  (1981),  on  the  occupied 
Syrian  Golan,  both  of  which  reject  the  unilateral 
and  provocative  decisions  of  the  Israeli  occupying 
authorities  to  annex  occupied  Palestinian  Jerusalem 
and  the  Syrian  Golan  and  consider  those  decisions 
devoid of any legal standing.
For  more  than  seven  decades,  Israel  has  been 
occupying  Palestinian  territories,  thereby  causing  the 
suffering of more than 5 million Palestinian refugees, 
who  have  been  expelled  from  their  homeland  and 
whose  land,  homes  and  livelihoods  have  been  seized 
by  Israel,  which  has  received  support  and  protection 
from  various  States.  That  has  enabled  Israel  to  run 
rampant  in  the  region,  refusing  to  implement  the 
hundreds  of  related  resolutions  adopted  at  the  United 
Nations throughout those decades. Israel has continued 
its expansion across vast areas of Palestinian and Arab 
territories,  perpetrating  documented  and  systematic 
crimes, aggressions and violations of both international 
humanitarian  law  and  international  human  rights 
law,  all  of  which  constitute  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against humanity.
My country reiterates its firm and principled stance 
in support of the Palestinian people and their right to 
self-determination  through  the  establishment  of  the 
independent State of Palestine on the entirety of their 
national  land,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  We 
support the right of refugees to return to their homeland, 
in  accordance  with  resolution  194  (III)  of  1948.  Any 
measures  that  impede  or  undermine  those  rights  are 
null and void and should be rejected, as they represent 
a  threat  to  peace  and  security  in  the  region  and  the 
world. That is especially true of the racist law recently 
adopted by Israel known as the nation-State law, as well 
as the decision of the United States Administration to 
move its Embassy to the city of Jerusalem and to stop 
funding the United Nations Relief and Works Agency 
for Palestine Refugees in the Near East.
Israel  continues  to  occupy  a  precious  part  of  our 
land  in  the  Syrian  Golan.  Our  people  there  continue 
to  suffer  as  a  consequence  of  Israel’s  occupation  and 
its oppressive and aggressive practices. From the very 
first day of its occupation, Israel has been attempting 
to change the legal and political status of the occupied 
Syrian Golan by perpetrating systematic violations of 
human rights, first by attempting since 1981 to impose 
Israeli citizenship on our people there, and later through 
its absurd decision to hold farcical local elections in the 
occupied Syrian Golan on 30 October. All such efforts 
have  been  thoroughly  thwarted  by  our  unfaltering 
people in the area.
its  policies  of 
Israel continues to confiscate land in the occupied 
Syrian Golan, expanding its settlements there, looting 
its wealth, distorting its history, stealing its artefacts and 
planting landmines, while also continuing to deprive the 
steadfast Syrian citizens there of their right to remain in 
contact with their families in their motherland of Syria. 
Israel also deprives the Syrian citizens in the occupied 
Syrian Golan of their right to study according to Syria’s 
national education curricula. They have been deprived 
of the right to carry their Syrian national identity cards 
and  build  Syrian  national  hospitals  in  their  occupied 
towns  in  the  Golan.  Furthermore,  Israel  continues 
to  conduct 
terrorism,  oppression, 
racial  discrimination  and  arbitrary  detention  of 
Syrian  citizens.  It  continues  to  make  every  aspect  of 
their  lives  difficult,  including  their  right,  based  on 
international laws and customs, to resist the occupation, 
and  it  continues  to  arrest  them,  try  them  in  puppet 
courts, sentence them to long periods of imprisonment 
and treat them as war criminals. In that connection, we 
should remind the international community of Syria’s 
Mandela, the prisoner Sedqi Suleiman Al-Maqet, whom 
the Israeli occupation authorities re-arrested in March 
2015, after he had been imprisoned in Israeli jails for 
27 years. It sentenced him to an additional 14 years of 
jail because he exposed through audio recordings and 
photographs the fact that Israel, the occupying Power, 
was cooperating with the terrorist organization Jabhat 
Al-Nusra  and  other  terrorist  organizations  active 
throughout  the  disengagement  zone  in  the  Golan.  We 
call on our global Organization not to delay in working 
to secure his release and that of the prisoner Amal Abu 
Saleh and the other prisoners arrested by Israel a few 
days ago, after the local elections farce.
My  country  reaffirms  its  sovereign  right  to  the 
occupied Syrian Golan, based on the borders of 4 June 
1967. That right is not open to negotiation or compromise 
or subject to a statute of limitations. Our occupied land 
and the rights we have been denied will be restored to 
us in full because we are the legitimate owners. Israel 
and its settlers must leave our land in the Golan sooner 
18-40536
13/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
or later. We stress that we will not forfeit our right to 
recover  our  occupied  land  and  liberate  those  of  our 
citizens  who  are  suffering  under  Israeli  occupation 
in  the  Syrian  Golan,  using  any  and  every  means,  as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and in 
accordance with the principles of international law and 
United Nations resolutions.
In  its  resolution  497  (1981),  the  Security  Council 
requested the Secretary-General to report to it within 
two weeks on the implementation of the resolution, and 
decided  that  in  the  event  of  Israel’s  non-compliance, 
the  Council  would  meet  without  delay,  and  no  later 
than  5  January  1982,  to  consider  taking  appropriate 
measures  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  Thirty-
seven  years  later,  and  after  the  General  Assembly’s 
adoption  of  dozens  of  resolutions  confirming  Israel’s 
non-compliance with resolution 497 (1981), we have the 
right to ask what the Council is waiting for to implement 
its resolution and force Israel to end its occupation of 
the  Syrian  Golan.  What  is  the  Council  waiting  for  to 
put an end to Israel’s violations and aggression against 
the  territories  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  most 
recently on 29 November in the Al-Kiswa area south of 
Damascus?  That  represented  overwhelming  evidence 
that Israel has entered a new phase of State terrorism, 
as it is now competing with the terrorist organizations 
of Da’esh and Jabhat Al-Nusra to kill civilians.
It  is  no  longer  acceptable  for  the  United  Nations 
and  its  Member  States  to  continue  to  address  the 
oppressive  Israeli  occupation  routinely  or  without 
showing  solidarity  that  includes  real  steps  that  could 
lead  to  tangible  results.  The  United  Nations  must 
therefore take immediate action to put an end to Israel’s 
occupation  and  ensure  its  withdrawal  from  Arab 
territories, including the occupied Syrian Golan, to the 
4 June 1967 lines, and to implement Security Council 
resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 497 (1981).
In conclusion, I call on all States to vote in favour 
of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.30,  entitled  “The  Syrian 
Golan”, and all draft resolutions pertaining to Palestine.
Ms. Nuzuha (Maldives): The Middle East continues 
to  capture  the  imagination  of  Maldivians,  young  and 
old alike, not because we are in the Middle East or even 
the  immediate  neighbourhood,  but  because  we  care 
about the suffering of so many innocent people who are 
being denied their right to life and basic human dignity, 
education,  sanitation  and  health  care.  We  support  a 
settlement  of  the  conflict  in  Palestine  and  call  for  an 
end  to  Israel’s  illegal  occupation  of  Palestine,  which 
remains at the root of the unending cycles of violence 
and conflict in the entire region.
that 
The  Maldives  has  always  believed 
the 
establishment of an independent and sovereign State of 
Palestine based on the 1967 borders, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital, living side by side and in peace with Israel, 
is the only viable solution to the conflict in Palestine. 
That is the solution called for by the Security Council, 
particularly in its resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 
2334 (2016). The Maldives therefore calls on Israel to 
fully implement the relevant Council resolutions, fully 
respect  the  legal  obligations  it  undertook  in  the  Oslo 
Accords and implement the Arab Peace Initiative and 
the Quartet road map.
Yet  the  question  of  Palestine  remains  unsettled 
and  without  meaningful  progress.  As  recently  as 
September,  Israel’s  High  Court  rejected  a  petition  to 
prevent  the  demolition  of  a  village  in  the  West  Bank 
that  would  result  in  the  displacement  of  hundreds 
of  people,  leaving  them  homeless  and  without  a 
livelihood,  a  school  for  their  children  or  access  to 
basic  health  care.  That  epitomizes  the  failure  of  the 
international  system  to  bring  an  end  to  the  suffering 
of the people of the Middle East. Today, we once again 
join many countries in calling for a permanent end to 
the  unlawful  occupation  of  Palestinian  lands  and  for 
granting the Palestinian people their legitimate right to 
self-determination.
The  humanitarian  situation  continues  to  worsen 
in Syria, where the conflict is in its seventh year. The 
battle  in  Aleppo  reduced  the  country  to  rubble.  The 
entire world now fears the outbreak of another conflict 
in  Syria’s  north-western  Idlib  province,  which  could 
result  in  the  worst  humanitarian  catastrophe  of  this 
century. Should it happen, more than 3 million people 
would  be  displaced  with  nowhere  to  seek  shelter, 
food or access to health care. We therefore call on the 
international  community  to  take  more  assertive  steps 
to  halt  the  tide  of  suffering  in  Syria.  Humanitarian 
intervention is an absolute necessity, but a permanent 
political solution must be found.
The  already  dire  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is 
being exacerbated by terrorist groups such as Da’esh, 
which are inflicting destruction and imposing extreme 
social  conditions  through  barbaric  acts  of  violence 
and  bloodshed.  They  do  not  recognize  borders  or 
distinguish  between  young  and  old,  women  and 
14/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
men,  nor  do  they  respect  any  religion  or  culture.  The 
Maldives condemns any attempt to attribute terrorism 
to  any  specific  religion,  culture  or  tradition.  We  are 
also of the view that the factors of terrorism should be 
tackled  through  international  cooperation  focused  on 
combating violent extremism.
It  is  important  that  we  rise  above  the  shackles  of 
the  past  to  move  towards  a  promising  future.  This  is 
a  compromise  that  must  be  made  by  the  people  and 
leaders of the countries of the region in order to save an 
area that has served as the cradle of human civilization 
and  the  birthplace  of  many  early  scientific  and 
technological advances. The Maldives therefore stands 
ready, full of hope, to work to find a lasting solution to 
this conflict, for we believe that there is always room 
for hope in any hardship.
Mr. Bessho (Japan): I thank you, Madam President, 
for convening this important meeting. I would like to 
address agenda items 38, “The situation in the Middle 
East”, and 39, “Question of Palestine”, and with regard 
to the latter item, to take special note of the fact that 
yesterday was the International Day of Solidarity with 
the Palestinian People.
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  remains  volatile 
and  complex.  Its  interlocking  challenges  require  the 
sustained  attention  of  the  international  community. 
In  Yemen,  we  need  to  make  progress  urgently,  as 
more than 14 million people run the risk of famine. In 
Syria,  we  have  yet  to  see  substantial  and  irreversible 
progress  on  either  the  political  or  the  humanitarian 
front. Through it all, the Middle East peace process is 
one of the central issues shaping international relations 
in  the  region.  The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  feeds 
into wider regional dynamics, and the lack of concrete 
progress  is  an  obstacle  to  improving  the  relations 
between  regional  players.  There  is  a  diplomatic  and 
security  cost  to  leaving  that  issue  unresolved,  and  it 
is borne by all. The only way to achieve a solution to 
that  conflict  is  through  direct  negotiations  between 
both the parties. It is clear that a resumption of peace 
talks is needed, but the current outlook remains bleak. 
The  international  community,  including  the  General 
Assembly, must continue to play its role in helping to 
create an environment conducive to peace. While there 
are  many  essential  steps  that  will  have  to  be  taken,  I 
want  to  highlight  three  actions  that  the  international 
community can take now.
First,  building  confidence  among 
the  parties 
requires enhanced international support. We appreciate 
the various efforts made so far by Member States and 
regional  actors.  For  its  part,  Japan  is  committed  to 
continuing  its  unique  confidence-building  measures 
through the Corridor for Peace and Prosperity initiative, 
which  encourages  and  supports  interdependence  in 
the  region,  and  the  independence  of  the  Palestinian 
economy, through regional cooperation with Palestine, 
Jordan and Israel.
the 
Secondly, 
international  community  must 
maintain  its  strong  support  for  a  two-State  solution. 
That  means  not  only  by  expressing  political  support 
but  also  by  rejecting  any  activity  that  makes  the 
possibility  of  achieving  that  solution  less  likely.  The 
continuing Israeli settlement activities are in violation 
of  international  law  and  must  cease  immediately. 
Violence also remains a major obstacle to peace. Japan 
condemns all acts of violence, which are fundamentally 
incompatible with the peaceful resolution of conflicts. 
In  supporting  a  two-State  solution,  the  international 
community  also  has  a  role  to  play  in  upholding  the 
internationally  agreed  parameters,  including  on  the 
status of Jerusalem.
Finally, we must immediately alleviate the economic 
and  humanitarian  situation,  which  is  particularly 
dire in Gaza. While we should swiftly implement the 
package agreed on in the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee 
for  the  Coordination  of  International  Assistance  to 
Palestinians, the return of the Palestinian Authority to 
Gaza is crucial.
In  terms  of  broader  stabilization  and  security  in 
the Middle East and North Africa, let me briefly touch 
on  the  Kono  four  principles, which  Japan’s  Foreign 
Minister  Kono  announced  last  year.  The  principles 
emphasize, first, intellectual and human contributions; 
secondly,  investment  in  people;  thirdly,  enduring 
efforts; and fourthly, enhanced political efforts. Japan 
has been conducting several programmes with tangible 
outcomes, such as the Jericho Agro-Industrial Park in 
Palestine, which is in its tenth year of operation, and our 
capacity-building initiative for teachers and instructors 
in  the  Middle  East.  We  are  committed  to  continuing 
those efforts.
Japan  believes  in  what  we  can  achieve  through 
multilateral  efforts  at 
the  United  Nations.  The 
international community, including the Assembly, must 
work  in  a  way  that  creates  a  positive  atmosphere  for 
18-40536
15/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
peace rather than feeding divisions. Japan will continue 
to engage constructively to that end.
Mr.  Safronkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): Russia and the countries of the Middle East are 
linked by many decades of friendship and constructive, 
mutually  beneficial  cooperation.  Our  relations  have 
withstood the test of time. We are genuinely interested 
in restoring stability in the region as soon as possible. 
However, the reality today is such that the situation in 
the  Middle  East  remains  difficult  and  still  demands 
significant collective efforts. Only through broad-based 
cooperation  and  multilateral  diplomacy  can  we  make 
progress in resolving the acute crises in the region and 
defeating terrorism.
We firmly believe that developing a shared vision 
of  ways  to  make  progress  towards  stabilization  and 
normalization in the Middle East is possible despite the 
differences in our approaches. The joint actions of the 
guarantor countries of the Astana process have proved 
that,  and  we  are  open  to  everyone  who  wants  to  be 
involved in such efforts. Working together, we can do a 
great deal to improve the situation in the Middle East. 
United  in  the  broadest  possible  front,  something  that 
Russia’s  President  Vladimir  Putin  has  called  for,  we 
can  make  real  breakthroughs  in  combating  terrorism. 
Together, we can end the bloodshed in Yemen, stabilize 
Libya,  help  Syrian  refugees  return  home,  tackle  the 
challenge  of  global  migration,  support  normalization 
in  Iraq  and  resolve  other  crises.  The  countries  of  the 
region  possess  a  wealth  of  the  cultural,  human  and 
natural  potential  that  can  enable  them  to  develop 
sustainably and even flourish. But that potential will be 
fully  realized  only  when  interference  in  the  domestic 
affairs  of  States  in  the  Middle  East  ends.  Like  other 
provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
international  law,  the  principle  of  non-intervention 
must  be  respected.  We  see  a  firm  foundation  in  that 
strict respect for our collective quest to resolve crises, 
first and foremost through the United Nations and its 
Security Council, which are the fundamental guarantors 
of today’s international legal system.
We  will  not  accept  aggressive 
revisionism 
aimed  at  various  international  agreements  originally 
arrived at based on the relevant Security Council and 
General  Assembly  resolutions,  among  other  things. 
Such  dangerous  attempts  not  only  negate  earlier 
efforts  to  resolve  conflicts,  they  also  undermine 
our  Organization’s  authority  and  generally  erode 
international  law.  We  should  focus  all  our  efforts  not 
on  unilateral  revisionist  policies  but  on  intensifying 
mediation,  with  the  United  Nations  taking  a  leading 
role in order to launch or rekindle dialogue mechanisms 
for  settling  the  crises  at  the  centre  of  which  lies  the 
Palestinian-Israeli conflict, whose resolution is key to 
improving the situation throughout the region.
in 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
trends  are 
Unfortunately,  destabilizing 
still 
dominant 
territories, 
and  the  prospects  for  a  resumption  of  the  negotiation 
process are becoming increasingly remote. The gulf of 
misunderstanding  and  mistrust  between  Palestinians 
and Israelis is widening. Instead of calls for peace and 
peaceful  initiatives,  what  is  now  in  the  forefront  is 
violence,  unilateral  measures,  inflammatory  rhetoric 
and  attempts  to  create  new  facts  on  the  ground, 
damaging  the  possibility  of  a  settlement.  The  tension 
continues  around  the  Gaza  Strip,  where  just  recently, 
thanks to monumental efforts, a relative calm has been 
achieved.  We  hope  that  it  can  be  sustained  and  long-
term, and that it will give the international community 
a chance to revitalize efforts to address the appalling 
humanitarian  situation  and  focus  on  advancing  the 
political  process.  Of  course,  any  assistance  to  Gaza 
should  be  conducted  in  close  coordination  with  the 
legitimate  Palestinian  authorities  under  President 
Abbas,  and  should  align  with  efforts  to  resolve  the 
problem of restoring Palestinian unity.
Russia’s  position  has  remained  consistent.  A 
comprehensive, sustainable Arab-Israeli settlement and 
resolution of the Palestinian question can be achieved 
on an internationally recognized basis that includes the 
relevant Security Council resolutions, the Arab Peace 
Initiative  and  the  Madrid  principles,  including  the 
principle of land for peace in relation to all the occupied 
territories,  among  them  the  Syrian  Golan.  A  crucial 
instrument in the settlement is still the concept of a two-
State solution, which assumes the establishment in the 
region, as a result of negotiations, of a State of Palestine 
coexisting in peace and security alongside Israel. Any 
policy  aimed  at  creating  new  facts  on  the  ground  is 
unacceptable, and we consider the expansion of Israeli 
settlements,  the  demolition  of  Palestinian  property 
and  the  expulsion  of  Palestinian  families  unlawful. 
We  condemn  all  forms  of  violence  and  inflammatory 
rhetoric. We believe that only a direct dialogue between 
Palestinians  and  Israelis  can  make  it  possible  to  find 
answers  to  all  the  final-status  issues.  That  applies  to 
Jerusalem, refugees, borders and core regional security 
issues.  We  cannot  simply  pick  up  those  sensitive 
16/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
problems and take them off the negotiating table before 
the parties have discussed them.
Russia  will  continue  to  play  an  active  role  in  the 
Middle East in its capacity as a permanent member of 
the Security Council and a member of the Middle East 
Quartet of international mediators, which remains the 
only  mediation  format  approved  by  Security  Council 
resolutions.  The  proposal  for  convening  a  summit 
in  Russia  between  the  leaders  of  Palestine  and  Israel 
remains  on  the  table.  We  will  continue  to  assist  the 
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  (UNRWA)  financially  and 
politically. UNRWA’s operations are of key significance, 
as  they  have  an  important  stabilizing  effect  in  the 
Palestinian territories and the countries of the Middle 
East. The Agency must endure and be fully functional.
The Russian Federation supports the development 
of a positive, unifying agenda for the entire international 
community  on  the  Middle  East,  including  Palestine. 
What  will  be  crucial  to  our  combined  efforts  in  the 
region is establishing conditions that are conducive to 
strengthening a general atmosphere of trust. That has 
key  significance  for  the  relations  between  the  Arab 
States, Israel and Iran. We want to remind the Assembly 
that  in  resolution  598  (1987),  the  Security  Council 
requested the Secretary-General to work with States in 
the  region  to  come  up  with  measures  to  enhance  the 
security  and  stability  of  the  region.  That  is  not  easy, 
but  we  have  to  start  work  on  it.  Russia  is  willing  to 
make  every  effort  to  assist  all  our  regional  partners, 
without exception. Our ultimate goal must be to create 
a genuinely inclusive regional security architecture that 
can  encompass  every  State  in  that  part  of  the  world. 
Our  concept  for  strengthening  security  in  the  Persian 
Gulf through international guarantees is still relevant 
and its implementation could begin with the holding of 
a conference with the participation of the States in the 
subregion. Over the long term, it could be expanded to 
include other Middle Eastern States.
We want to emphasize that all the decisions taken 
by the General Assembly on this issue have to follow 
the  logic  of  resolving  these  problems.  Russia  stands 
ready to work with all interested parties on an open and 
impartial basis on all these and other aspects.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in the debate on this item.
I would like to inform members that we will take 
action  on  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.29  and  A/73/L.30 
after  doing  so  on  draft 
resolutions  A/73/L.31, 
A/73/L.32, A/73/L.33 and A/73/L.34, submitted under 
agenda item 39.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 38.
Agenda item 39 (continued)
Question of Palestine
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.31, A/73/L.32, 
А/73/L.33 and А/73/L.34)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  the 
Assembly  takes  action  on  the  draft  resolutions  one 
by  one,  members  are  reminded  that  they  will  have 
an  opportunity  to  explain  their  vote  on  all  four  draft 
resolutions either before or after action is taken on all 
of them.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/73/L.31, A/73/L.32, A/73/L.33 and A/73/L.34.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of  vote  before  the  voting,  I  would  like  to  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote should be limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Kickert  (Austria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU)  and 
its  member  States.  The  EU  would  like  to  thank  the 
Palestinian  delegation  for  the  successful  outcome  of 
our negotiations on a number of the draft resolutions on 
which the General Assembly is now taking action. As 
an outcome of those negotiations, the EU confirms its 
position on the package.
At this time, we would like to put it on record that 
with regard to all draft resolutions adopted during the 
seventy-third  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  the 
EU and its member States consider that whenever the 
Palestinian  Government  is  mentioned,  it  refers  to  the 
Palestinian Authority. Furthermore, the use of the term 
“Palestine” in any of those draft resolutions cannot be 
construed  as  recognition  of  a  State  of  Palestine  and 
is without prejudice to the individual positions of our 
member States on that issue and hence on the question 
of the validity of an accession to the conventions and 
treaties it mentions. We also point out that the European 
Union as a whole has not expressed a legal qualification 
with regard to the term “forced displacement”, used in 
18-40536
17/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
a number of draft resolutions submitted under agenda 
item 39.
Some of the draft resolutions to be adopted today 
refer to the holy sites in Jerusalem. The EU is concerned 
about the worrying developments and recurrent violent 
clashes at the Temple Mount/Al-Haram Al-Sharif. The 
EU recalls the special significance of the holy sites and 
calls for upholding the status quo put in place in 1967 
for the Temple Mount/Al-Haram Al-Sharif, in line with 
previous  understandings  and  with  respect  to  Jordan’s 
special role. The EU recalls that its position with regard 
to  those  draft  resolutions  does  not  imply  a  change  in 
its  stance  on  the  terminology  concerning  the  Temple 
Mount/Al-Haram Al-Sharif. The EU stresses the need 
for  language  on  the  holy  sites  of  Jerusalem  to  reflect 
the importance and historical significance of the holy 
sites for the three monotheistic religions and to respect 
religious  and  cultural  sensitivities.  The  future  choice 
of  language  may  affect  the  EU’s  collective  support 
for  the  draft  resolutions  according  to  the  established 
voting pattern.
Mrs.  Furman  (Israel):  This  explanation  of  vote 
refers  to  all  the  draft  resolutions  under  agenda  items 
38 and 39. On 29 November 1947, the United Nations 
adopted resolution 181 (II), which called for the creation 
of  independent  Arab  and  Jewish  States  living  side  by 
side.  The  State  of  Israel  accepted  that  resolution,  and 
the Arab world rejected it. On 15 May 1948, only one 
day after Israel declared its independence, a coalition of 
Arab armies invaded Israel. Their goal was simple — to 
destroy the newly established Jewish State.
Yesterday,  29  November,  was  the  seventy-first 
anniversary  of  that  crucial  United  Nations  vote  (see 
A/PV.128). It should have been a day of celebration, but 
year  after  year,  that  historic  date  becomes  an  annual 
Israel-bashing  session.  Some  countries  still  refuse  to 
accept the existence of the State of Israel in the Middle 
East.  We  heard  some  of  them  speak  yesterday  (see 
A/73/PV.42) and earlier today.
We  are  living  at  a  time  when  many  crises  are 
raging across the Middle East and around the world. It 
is a shame that rather than addressing those crises, the 
United Nations adopts so many biased resolutions and 
devotes precious resources to politicized bodies whose 
sole purpose is to attack and denounce Israel.
One  of  those  bodies  is  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People — a Committee that does nothing but spread a 
one-sided political narrative against one United Nations 
Member State and uses the money of all Member States 
to  do  so.  Earlier  this  week,  the  Committee  invited  a 
guest  speaker  who  suggested  that  solidarity  from 
the  international  community  requires  embracing  the 
boycott,  divestment  and  sanctions  movement  against 
Israel. He concluded his statement with a call for a free 
Palestine from the river to the sea. For those who are 
not familiar with the map of the region, there is only 
one  meaning  to  what  he  suggested  —  a  Palestinian 
State, not side by side with Israel but instead of Israel.
The  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  supports  that 
Committee.  Last  year,  the  Division  invited  several 
organizations  and  speakers  with  clear  and  public  ties 
to  terrorism  to  participate  in  the  Committee’s  events. 
Let  me  repeat  that.  A  body  of  the  Secretariat  funded 
by  all  Member  States  provided  a  platform  for  public 
supporters and glorifiers of terrorism. That is not just a 
bad use of our time but is completely against our values. 
It is truly disturbing and shameful.
That is not all. The Division for Palestinian Rights 
is the only office of the Secretariat promoting an agenda 
that directly targets one Member State, and it fills 15 
paid positions to do so. Moreover, a large portion of the 
funding  for  the  Division  covers  business-class  airline 
tickets so that participants in its anti-Israel events can 
travel  anywhere  in  the  world  to  attend.  That  type  of 
Division  and  funding  at  the  United  Nations  is  truly 
unparalleled, especially as the Department of Political 
Affairs  struggles  to  tackle  its  endless  responsibilities 
with limited human and financial resources.
I  turn  now  to  the  special  information  programme 
on the question of Palestine, led by the Department of 
Public  Information  (DPI), which  organizes  an  annual 
seminar on peace in the Middle East. No one should be 
misled by the title — the seminar has nothing to do with 
peace. It has everything to do with anti-Israel sentiment 
and does little to promote dialogue and understanding 
between Israelis and Palestinians. This year’s seminar 
had a panel entitled “Seventy years after Nakba day”. 
The term “Nakba” means catastrophe. By adopting that 
term at the seminar, the special information programme 
of  the  DPI  is  endorsing  the  Palestinians’  denial  of 
Israel’s  legitimacy.  Let  me  be  clear  —  calling  the 
establishment of Israel a catastrophe is not a statement 
of  solidarity  with  the  Palestinians;  it  is  a  denial  of 
Israel’s right to exist.
18/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
There is no way to justify the fact that the United 
Nations  spends  almost  $6.5  million  of  its  budget  on 
organizations  and  bodies  that  do  nothing  but  try  to 
isolate Israel. Not only are they one-sided, but they are 
dangerous and give the floor to those who work against 
a peaceful solution.
The  problem  does  not  end  with  the  allocation  of 
United  Nations  funding.  It  continues  with  the  draft 
resolutions on which we will vote today. Two of them 
discuss the Temple Mount, a sacred place for all three 
monotheistic religions: Islam, Christianity and Judaism. 
Yet those draft resolutions have omitted any reference 
to  the  Jewish  or  Christian  connection  to  the  Temple 
Mount, or, as we call it in Hebrew, Har Habayit. That 
omission  is  deliberate.  It  shows  yet  another  instance 
of  the  Palestinians’  refusal  to  recognize  the  proven 
historical  connection  between  Judaism,  Christianity, 
the  Temple  Mount  and  Jerusalem  as  a  whole.  The 
international  community  must  stop  participating  in 
such a blatant denial of history. It must not permit such 
blatant attempts to delegitimize Israel.
As  for  the  draft  resolution  regarding  the  Golan 
(A/73/L.30), the situation in Syria is dire. For the past 
seven years, the Syrian regime has been systematically 
killing  its  own  people  and  has  even  used  chemical 
weapons  against  them.  Meanwhile,  Israel  has  been 
taking  care  of  thousands  of  injured  Syrians  in  its 
hospitals.  Yet,  despite  the  realities  on  the  ground, 
absurdity prevails in the General Assembly.
Supporting  the  six  anti-Israel  draft  resolutions 
presented today will neither advance nor inspire peace. 
It will only inspire hate. Israel will vote against them 
and I call on everyone to do the same.
Mr.  Ordeman  (United  States  of  America):  This 
explanation of vote addresses all draft resolutions under 
agenda items 38 and 39.
The United States continues to oppose the annual 
submission of a disproportionate number of unfair draft 
resolutions  biased  against  Israel.  As  in  the  past,  this 
one-sided  approach  damages  the  prospects  for  peace 
by  undermining  trust  between  the  parties  and  failing 
to create the kind of positive international environment 
that is critical to achieving peace.
We  are  disappointed  that,  despite  messages  of 
support  for  reform,  Member  States  continue  to  single 
out  Israel  with  such  draft  resolutions.  As  the  United 
States  has  repeatedly  made  clear,  that  dynamic  is 
unacceptable. Again, we see draft resolutions that are 
quick to condemn all manner of Israeli actions but say 
almost nothing about Palestinian terrorist attacks against 
innocent civilians. That is particularly acute now, when 
the rocket attacks of 12 November saw more projectiles 
fired on a single day than on any day since 2014. That 
is  also  why,  for  the  first  time,  we  are  introducing  a 
stand-alone  draft  resolution  to  condemn  Hamas  and 
other  militant  groups  for  their  indiscriminate  attacks 
on  civilians  and  their  primary  role  in  the  worsening 
humanitarian and economic situation in Gaza, as well 
as their actions to restrict free expression and silence 
political dissent.
Regarding  the  draft  resolutions  subject  to  a  vote 
on  29  and  30  November,  the  United  States  will  once 
again  vote  against  those  one-sided  draft  resolutions 
and  encourages  other  nations  to  do  so  as  well.  Those 
draft resolutions damage the credibility of the United 
Nations, as they show a clear bias in favour of one party 
and  raise  real  questions  regarding  the  impartiality  of 
the  United  Nations.  That,  in  turn,  serves  to  discredit 
the  Organization’s  important  role  in  supporting  the 
resolution of the conflict in the Middle East.
In  particular,  the  United  States  has  significant 
concerns with draft resolutions A/73/L.31 and A/73/L.34, 
“Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights 
of the Palestinian People” and “Division for Palestinian 
Rights  of  the  Secretariat”,  respectively.  Those  two 
draft  resolutions  have  actual  budgetary  implications 
and  consume  limited  United  Nations  resources  that 
would  be  better  deployed  elsewhere.  Last  year,  the 
operations  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  the 
Division for Palestinian Rights cost nearly $3 million. 
Those  two  draft  resolutions  propagate  assumptions 
regarding issues that the parties have agreed should be 
resolved in the context of final status negotiations and 
do nothing to bring us closer to the goal we all share 
of a comprehensive peace in the Middle East. Instead, 
they undermine our efforts by renewing the mandates 
of entities that perpetuate a clear and demonstrated bias 
that serves only to drive the parties further apart.
The  Palestinians  are  the  only  actor  in  the  United 
Nations  system  with  a  dedicated  Division  within 
the  Secretariat.  The  message  that  sends  is  that  the 
Palestinians  never  really  need  to  come  back  to  the 
negotiating table. They can rely on flawed and biased 
mechanisms  such  as  these  to  push  their  agenda. 
The  United  States  remains  firmly  and  consistently 
18-40536
19/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
committed  to  achieving  a  comprehensive  and  lasting 
peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
Any resolution adopted here today will only distract 
from that process. One-sided resolutions do not help to 
advance peace. The cause of peace will be served when 
the bias of the United Nations against Israel ends. The 
United  States  has  consistently  opposed  every  effort 
to delegitimize Israel or undermine its security at the 
United  Nations,  and  we  will  continue  to  do  so  with 
vigour.  We  hope  that  other  Members  will  join  us  by 
voting against these draft resolutions.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  decisions  on  draft 
resolutions  A/73/L.31,  A/73/L.32,  A/73/L.33  and 
A/73/L.34.
We first turn to draft resolution A/73/L.31, entitled 
“Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights 
of the Palestinian People”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
A/73/L.31:  Algeria,  Bangladesh,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
the Comoros, Ecuador, Indonesia, Lebanon, Malaysia, 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan and Viet Nam.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational 
State  of),  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Chad, Chile, 
China, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Gambia, 
Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Iceland,  India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Libya,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-
Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia, Canada, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, 
Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated 
States of), Nauru, Republic of Moldova, Solomon 
Islands, United States of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Austria,  Belarus, 
Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria, 
Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Estonia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana, 
Greece,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Mexico, 
Monaco, Montenegro, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo, 
Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
The draft resolution was adopted by 100 votes to 
12, with 62 abstentions (resolution 73/18).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Angola advised the 
Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.32, 
entitled 
the  question 
of Palestine”.
settlement  of 
“Peaceful 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
20/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  the  document,  the  following  countries  have  also 
become  sponsors  of  A/73/L.32:  Algeria,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Comoros,  Ecuador, 
Indonesia, Lebanon, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Qatar, Saudi 
Arabia, the Sudan and Viet Nam.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Belgium,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia, 
Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Senegal,  Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Israel,  Kiribati,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru, 
United States of America
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Fiji,  Guatemala, 
Honduras,  Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Rwanda, 
Solomon Islands, Togo, Tonga, Vanuatu
The draft resolution was adopted by 156 votes to 8, 
with 12 abstentions (resolution 73/19).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Angola advised the 
Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President  (spoke 
turn 
next  to  draft  resolution  A/73/L.33,  entitled  “Special 
information programme on the question of Palestine of 
the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
in  Spanish):  We 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
A/73/L.33:  Algeria,  Bangladesh,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
the Comoros, Ecuador, Indonesia, Lebanon, Malaysia, 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the Sudan.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Belgium,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Burkina  Faso,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa 
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
18-40536
21/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia, 
Finland,  France,  Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  San  Marino,  Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada,  Guatemala,  Israel,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru, 
United States of America
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic,  Fiji, 
Honduras,  Mexico,  Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Rwanda,  Samoa,  Solomon  Islands,  South  Sudan, 
Togo, Tonga, Vanuatu
The draft resolution was adopted by 152 votes to 8, 
with 14 abstentions (resolution 73/20).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Angola advised the 
Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will  now 
resolution 
A/73/L.34 entitled “Division for Palestinian Rights of 
the Secretariat”.
take  a  decision  on  draft 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/73/L.34,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors of the draft resolution: Algeria, Bangladesh, 
Brunei Darussalam, the Comoros, Ecuador, Indonesia, 
Lebanon,  Malaysia,  Mauritania,  Qatar,  Saudi  Arabia, 
the Sudan and Viet Nam.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Cabo 
Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Comoros, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Djibouti, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Gambia,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Guyana,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay, 
Uzbekistan,  Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of), 
Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia, Canada, Guatemala, Honduras, Hungary, 
Israel,  Kiribati,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Republic of Moldova, 
Solomon Islands, United States of America
22/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, 
Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Ghana,  Greece,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand,  Norway,  Palau,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Republic 
of  Korea,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda, 
Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo, 
Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft resolution A/73/L.34 was adopted by 96 votes 
to 13, with 64 abstentions (resolution 73/21).
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Angola  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the floor for explanations of vote after the vote, may I 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Ms. Tang (Singapore): I am speaking in explanation 
of  vote  after  the  adoption  of  resolutions  73/18,  73/19, 
73/20 and 73/21.
Singapore  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  73/18, 
entitled “Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People”,  based  on  the 
understanding  that  the  reference  in  paragraph  2  to 
the achievement of the two-State solution on the basis 
of  the  pre-1967  borders  should  be  interpreted  in  the 
same  manner  as  set  out  in  paragraph  1  of  resolution 
73/19,  entitled  “Peaceful  settlement  of  the  question 
of  Palestine”,  namely,  “the  two-State  solution  of 
Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security within recognized borders, based on the pre-
1967 borders”.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
its 
thus  concluded 
Assembly  has 
consideration of agenda item 39.
this  stage  of 
Agenda item 38 (continued)
The situation in the Middle East
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.29 and A/73/L.30)
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  shall  now 
proceed  to  take  action  on  draft  resolutions  A/73/L.29 
and A/73/L.30.
The  Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/73/L.29, entitled “Jerusalem”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the following countries have also become sponsors of 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.29:  Algeria,  Bangladesh,  the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
the  Comoros,  Cuba,  Indonesia,  Lebanon,  Malaysia, 
Maldives, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Viet Nam.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Belarus,  Belgium,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria, 
Burundi,  Cabo  Verde,  Cambodia,  Chad,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador, 
Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia, 
Georgia, Germany, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, 
Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
18-40536
23/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  San  Marino,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Seychelles,  Singapore, 
Slovakia, Slovenia, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada,  Guatemala,  Israel,  Kiribati, 
Marshall Islands, Micronesia (Federated States of), 
Nauru,  Palau,  Solomon  Islands,  United  States  of 
America
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  Central  African  Republic,  Dominican 
Republic, Fiji, Honduras, Nigeria, Panama, Papua 
New Guinea, Rwanda, Samoa, South Sudan, Togo, 
Tuvalu, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.29  was  adopted  by  148 
votes to 11, with 14 abstentions (resolution 73/22).
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Angola  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
will now proceed to take a decision on draft resolution 
A/73/L.30, entitled “The Syrian Golan”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/73/L.30,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Brunei  Darussalam, 
the Comoros, Malaysia, Qatar, Senegal and the Sudan.
The President (spoke in Spanish): A recorded vote 
has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Benin,  Bhutan, 
Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso,  Cabo  Verde, 
Cambodia, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Gambia,  Guinea,  Guyana,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran 
(Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Libya, 
Malawi,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, 
Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Russian Federation, Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Senegal,  Seychelles,  Singapore,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-
Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Israel,  Kiribati,  Marshall 
Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Nauru, 
Palau,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America
Abstaining:
Italy, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Central African 
Republic,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland, 
Ireland, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Montenegro,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nigeria, 
Norway,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, San Marino, 
Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, South 
Sudan,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tonga, 
Tuvalu, Ukraine, Vanuatu
24/26
18-40536
30/11/2018 
A/73/PV.43
Draft resolution A/73/L.30 was adopted 99 votes to 
10, with 66 abstentions (resolution 73/23).
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Angola  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote in favour.]
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the floor for explanations of vote after the vote, may I 
remind delegations that explanations of vote are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats.
Mr.  Duque  Estrada  Meyer  (Brazil)  (spoke  in 
Spanish): I have the honour to take the floor on behalf 
of  the  delegations  of  Brazil  and  Argentina  to  explain 
our votes.
As we have done in previous years, with respect to 
resolution  73/23,  concerning  the  Syrian  Golan,  which 
the  General  Assembly  has  just  adopted,  Brazil  and 
Argentina voted in favour of the resolution because we 
believe  that  its  vital  nature  is  linked  to  the  illegality 
of  the  acquisition  of  territories  by  force.  Article  2, 
paragraph  4,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
prohibits the threat or use of force against the territorial 
integrity of any State.
I  would  also  like  to  clarify  the  position  of 
our  delegations  with  respect  to  paragraph  6  of  the 
resolution. Our vote is without prejudice to the content 
of that paragraph, particularly the reference to 4 June 
1967. Brazil and Argentina believe that it is important 
to  make  progress  in  the  search  for  a  solution  to  the 
Syrian-Israeli aspect of the conflict in the Middle East 
with the aim of putting an end to the occupation of the 
Golan Heights. Hence, on behalf of the Governments of 
Brazil and Argentina, I again highlight the importance 
of resuming negotiations to find a definitive solution to 
the situation in the Syrian Golan, pursuant to Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973) and the 
principle of land for peace.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  On  behalf  of 
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the observer of the Observer State of Palestine.
the 
delegation of the State of Palestine, allow me to express 
our gratitude and thanks to all the countries that voted 
in favour of the five resolutions related to the question 
of  Palestine  and  also  in  favour  of  resolution  73/23, 
concerning  the  Syrian  Golan.  We  see  that  massive 
support, which is similar to last year’s pattern of voting, 
as  a  sign  of  the  strong  support  of  the  international 
community  for  the  global  consensus  on  how  to  solve 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  and  the  question  of 
Palestine.  We  sincerely  thank  the  Assembly  for  its 
steadfastness,  resolve  and  determination  in  ensuring 
that the global consensus for which we have all worked, 
for  a  long  period  of  time,  is  still  the  cornerstone  to 
finding  a  just  and  lasting  peace  to  this  conflict.  That 
will  give  us  the  strength  to  remain  steadfast  in  our 
homeland and to seek a peaceful, just solution to this 
conflict on the basis of international law and all relevant 
United Nations resolutions on the subject. We thank the 
Member States for that.
To 
those  who  are  advocating  a  stand-alone 
resolution, which to my understanding will be dealt with 
next  Thursday  afternoon,  let  me  just  ask —  after  the 
16 resolutions that have been adopted in the committees 
and  in  the  General  Assembly,  why  submit  this  draft 
resolution?  Are  their  intentions  truly  to  open  doors 
for  peace,  or  are  their  intentions  disruptive  and 
irresponsible and an attempt to distract us from pushing 
forward to find a solution to this conflict on the basis 
of what we have agreed to over the years, namely, the 
global  consensus  on  the  basis  of  a  two-State  solution 
based  on  the  borders  of  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
the capital of our State? That would require, of course, 
putting an end to the Israeli occupation that has lasted 
for almost 51 years.
We  believe  that  those  who  are  advocating  this 
initiative are not acting out of a genuine wish to open 
doors  for  peace.  After  all,  they  are  the  ones  who 
unleashed  a  massive  barrage  of  attacks  against  us, 
starting  with  violating  Security  Council  resolutions, 
recognizing  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  the  State  of 
Israel, moving the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, 
and the most recent attacks against us for nothing that 
was done from our side. We simply come to the General 
Assembly to seek a legal, political, diplomatic solution 
to  the  conflict;  yet  they  punish  us  for  doing  so.  The 
latest  episode  of  such  punishment  is  the  free,  stand-
alone draft resolution.
Of course, we refuted the argument of those who are 
advancing this draft resolution, and we have circulated 
our  argument  refuting  their  argument  to  the  entire 
Assembly. There is therefore no need for me to dwell 
on that. However, I appeal to the Assembly to read our 
memorandum and the annex thereto with regard to this 
free, stand-alone draft resolution. Therefore, I appeal to 
all members, when that draft resolution is put to a vote 
next Thursday, to vote against it and to defend the global 
consensus to which we have agreed, as reflected in the 
18-40536
25/26
A/73/PV.43 
30/11/2018
package of resolutions, especially the 13 political ones 
whose  language  we  negotiated  with  all  members.  We 
are grateful that States voted in favour of the package.
The  stand-alone  draft  resolution  is  trying  to  tell 
all  of  us  that  the  global  consensus  on  how  to  resolve 
this  issue  is  no  more  and  is  not  acceptable,  and  that 
what is acceptable is only the draft resolution that they 
are  pushing,  which  names  and  shames  and  shows  no 
seriousness  or  genuineness  about  opening  doors  for 
peace. I therefore appeal to members and ask that when 
that draft resolution is put to a vote, they vote against it 
because voting against it means that the Assembly still 
upholds  the  global  consensus  on  how  to  resolve  this 
situation. I hope that next Thursday, my delegation will 
be able to thank the Assembly in the same way as I am 
thanking it now for upholding the global consensus on 
resolving the question of Palestine.
I  want  to  thank  you,  Madam  President,  and  your 
Office for working with us to have an equal, reasonable 
amount  of  time  for  all  parties  to  be  able  to  deal  with 
what we must deal with next Thursday afternoon.
Mr.  Mounzer  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic): My delegation would like to express its sincere 
appreciation and gratitude to the General Assembly for 
having once again, and without interruption since 1981, 
adopted  the  resolution  entitled  “The  Syrian  Golan” 
(resolution  73/23),  as  well  as  for  having  adopted  the 
other resolutions submitted under the two agenda items 
concerning the Palestinian question and the situation in 
the Middle East.
I reiterate my country’s gratitude to all the States 
that  sponsored  and  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
regarding  the  Syrian  Golan.  The  majority  of  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  continues  to  support 
those  resolutions,  which  reflects 
tenacious 
adherence  to  the  objectives  and  purposes  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, their rejection of foreign 
occupation  and  their  support  for  our  right  to  regain 
every inch of our territories that have been occupied by 
Israel since 1967.
their 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
its 
thus  concluded 
Assembly  has 
consideration of agenda item 38.
this  stage  of 
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
26/26
18-40536
