United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
46th plenary meeting
Thursday, 6 December 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.46
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Gertze 
(Namibia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 40
The situation in Afghanistan
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/374))
Draft resolution (A/73/L.44)
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Germany to introduce draft resolution 
A/73/L.44.
Mr.  Heusgen  (Germany):  It  is  my  pleasure  to 
introduce  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44,  entitled  “The 
situation in Afghanistan”. As members of the Assembly 
know,  this  text  was  first  introduced  in  1980  and  has 
been  reintroduced  every  year  since  then.  Since  2002, 
Germany  has  served  as  the  facilitator  of  the  draft 
resolution.  It  has  never  been  easy  but,  in  the  end, 
we  have  always  been  able  to  reach  consensus,  which 
we  believe  is  extremely  important  because  it  shows 
the  international  community’s  consensus  view  of 
Afghanistan  and  its  population,  which  is  suffering 
under the conflict taking place there. That suffering is 
the reason that it is very important for the international 
community to be united.
The  substance  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44 
reflects  the  dynamics  in  Afghanistan  over  the  years, 
the  changes  on  the  ground  and  international  support. 
The most important events to take place this year were 
the parliamentary elections in October and the Geneva 
Ministerial  Conference 
in  November,  which  was 
successful. The text of the draft resolution reflects the 
positions of Member States as they were communicated 
to us, and we did everything possible to accommodate 
all of them. Of course, attaining 100 per cent is never 
possible;  compromise  is  necessary,  and  we  strove  to 
achieve it. Of course, in the end, the text must reflect 
the facts on the ground.
The  draft  resolution’s  main  purpose  is  to  express 
support  for  Afghanistan  and  its  people.  I  would 
therefore like to thank all delegations that have showed 
flexibility in upholding the draft’s show of support for 
the people of Afghanistan.
Turning to the substance of the draft resolution, our 
most  important  concern  remains  the  fragile  security 
situation.  We  are  all  aware  of  the  number  of  high-
profile  attacks,  the  most  recent  being  the  attack  on 
20  November  that  targeted  religious  scholars  and  left 
55 people dead. We call on all people in Afghanistan to 
stand together.
We also wish pay tribute to the members of Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces for their patriotism 
and sacrifices. Together with its international partners, 
Germany  will  continue  to  be  present  in  Afghanistan 
security-wise, through the NATO-led Resolute Support 
Mission in support of the Afghan security forces. Our 
aim is to bring peace and stability to Afghanistan. There 
can be no improvement in the situation in Afghanistan 
without support for the security sector, but that support 
is viable only if by improving the security sector there 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-41573 (E)
*1841573*

A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
is also support for social development, the stabilization 
of society and the building of functioning institutions 
in the country.
With regard to the peace process, it is very important 
that it be inclusive, Afghan-led and Afghan-owned, and 
involve  both  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  the 
Taliban. That is the only pathway towards a sustainable 
resolution.  We  saw  some  very  positive  signs  in  the 
Eid  al-Fitr  ceasefire  this  summer.  We  also  saw  new 
initiatives  being  launched  at  the  Geneva  Conference. 
The draft resolution before us reiterates the call on the 
parties to the conflict to recognize their responsibilities 
in achieving peace and to enter into direct talks without 
preconditions.  That  aspect  is  directed  at  the  Taliban. 
All  countries  of  the  regions  have  to  exert  their  best 
efforts in support the peace process.
including 
Although  Afghanistan  has  come  a  long  way, 
numerous  challenges  remain, 
the  fight 
against  corruption  and  the  fight  for  good  governance 
and institution-building. Each is of crucial importance. 
I  also  wish  to  highlight  the  importance  of  women’s 
empowerment 
their 
participation  in  Government  and  their  education, 
specifically their ability to attend school and university. 
I would encourage the Government of Afghanistan to 
continue to make efforts in those areas and implement 
the announced political and economic reforms.
including 
country, 
in 
the 
to 
Germany 
remains  committed 
supporting 
Afghanistan  and  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  and  to 
trying  to  build  an  international  consensus  that  the 
Afghan  population  can  see.  We  continue  to  work 
closely  with  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  our 
international partners.
In  conclusion,  Germany  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  to  be  delivered  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union later in today’s debate.
Mr.  Saikal  (Afghanistan):  I  would  like  to  thank 
the  President  for  convening  today’s  meeting  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  as  we  adopt  this  year’s  draft 
resolution on our country (A/73/L.44).
To  begin, 
let  me  convey  my  gratitude 
to 
Mr.  Christoph  Heusgen,  Mr.  Friedrich  Schröder  and 
the  rest  of  the  team  at  the  German  Mission  for  ably 
facilitating negotiations on the draft resolution. We also 
convey our thanks to all delegations for their proactive 
engagement  and  flexibility  during  the  course  of  the 
deliberations.  As  a  result  of  their  efforts,  this  year’s 
draft  resolution  reflects  the  important  developments 
that  took  place  during  the  course  of  the  past  year, 
covering  the  security  situation,  developments  in  the 
area  of  peace  and  reconciliation,  the  recent  Geneva 
Ministerial Conference on Afghanistan and, above all, 
the enduring partnership between Afghanistan and the 
international  community  on  common  goals  that  are 
imperative to us all.
As  we  take  stock  of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan, 
a glimpse at the past will benefit our course of action 
on  the  way  forward  towards  consolidating  gains  and 
guaranteeing  stability  and  security  in  the  country. 
Afghanistan’s geostrategic location in the heart of Asia 
has led to vested interests trying to meddle and interfere 
in  ways  that  serve  no  benefit  to  anyone.  The  ensuing 
violence  has  brought  with  it  untold  suffering  and 
devastation for our people, resulting in a humanitarian 
crisis  and  leading  to  instability  in  the  wider  region. 
In  the  process,  our  people  have  resisted  and  risen  up 
in  defence  of  the  dignity  and  territorial  integrity  of 
their  country.  Following  the  end  of  the  former  Soviet 
occupation and the collapse of the communist regime, 
we witnessed a new era of meddling, which involved the 
use of proxy groups for strategic gains. The challenges 
that we faced then remain evident even today, requiring 
a  new  approach  designed  to  change  the  calculus  for 
the benefit of security, not only in Afghanistan but the 
wider region.
Looking at where we stand, despite all the prevailing 
challenges,  Afghanistan  has  crossed  a  threshold  and 
turned the corner in achieving our goals for security and 
self-reliance.  This  year’s  draft  resolution  exemplifies 
the  international  community’s  commitment  to  that 
imperative, for which we are grateful.
In  the  area  of  security,  our  national  forces  are 
valiantly  defending  our  dignity  and  freedom  and,  in 
the broader context, fighting to defend global security. 
They have engaged the Taliban and other elements of 
the transnational terrorist network, while adopting an 
offensive posture and inflicting heavy losses on those 
elements in the battlefield. Despite repeated attempts, 
the  Taliban  have  failed  to  capture  a  single  province 
or city, or to otherwise assert control anywhere in the 
country. That progress also relates to efforts aimed at 
countering  such  foreign  terrorist  fighters  as  Da’esh, 
whose  presence  and  capacity  have  been  reduced, 
including  in  the  northern  provinces.  The  Taliban  and 
other  affiliated  groups  have  shifted  their  focus  to 
attacking  population  centres  and  other  soft  targets, 
2/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
including religious sites and gatherings, with a view to 
stoking internal tensions.
The  latest  such  attack  was  against  a  group  of 
religious scholars last month, where more than 55 were 
killed  and  over  80  wounded,  some  severely.  Let  me 
state once again that such attacks can never undermine 
our unity or commitment to a peaceful and democratic 
Afghanistan.  The  sheer  number  of  Afghans  who,  in 
defiance of terror, came out in waves to stand in lines 
for hours to cast their vote in the recent parliamentary 
elections is proof of that.
We  thank  all  international  partners,  including 
those  in  the  NATO-led  Resolute  Support  Mission, 
and other partner nations providing support to further 
strengthen the operational capabilities of our national 
security forces. Those investments are for the security 
of Afghanistan, the region and beyond.
The  past  few  months  have  seen  developments  in 
our peace efforts, which have given a glimmer of hope 
for  the  course  of  action  we  will  undertake  in  future. 
Following  Afghanistan’s  submission  of  a  peace  plan 
with unconditional talks with the Taliban, in February, 
and the Ulema Conferences for Peace and Security in 
Afghanistan,  held  in  Kabul  and  Jakarta,  a  three-day 
ceasefire  was  observed  in  June.  Further  progress 
was  seen  in  July,  when  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation hosted an International Ulema Conference 
in Saudi Arabia that denounced the war in Afghanistan, 
thereby leaving no grounds for a religious justification 
for  the  war.  Nevertheless,  the  Taliban  have  continued 
their violence and terror.
Domestically,  a  national  consultative  process  has 
been undertaken to ensure that peace efforts have the 
full support across the spectrum of society — political 
parties,  civil  society,  tribal  elders,  religious  figures, 
and  women  and  youth  groups.  Less  than  two  weeks 
ago in Geneva, our road map for achieving peace was 
presented.  The  document  aims  for  a  peace  agreement 
that will uphold the constitutional rights of all citizens, 
especially  women.  Moreover,  no  armed  groups  with 
ties  to  transnational  terrorist  networks  or  criminal 
organizations and no State or non-State actors seeking 
influence  in  Afghanistan  will  be  allowed  to  join  the 
process.  In  addition,  to  make  progress  on  the  peace 
agenda, an authoritative negotiating team will conduct 
direct  negotiations  with  the  Taliban,  and  we  expect 
the  same  from  the  Taliban,  so  that  we  have  a  united 
negotiating team.
Regional consensus is imperative for the success of 
that process. We have long asserted that peace is most 
achievable when neighbours in the region are on board 
and engaged constructively in support of an Afghan-led 
and Afghan-owned peace process. While we continue 
to  lead  peace  efforts,  we  also  welcome  the  current 
efforts of the United States Special Representative for 
Afghanistan  Reconciliation,  Ambassador  Khalilzad, 
aimed at reaching out to regional players to strengthen 
consensus  and  facilitate  direct  peace  talks  with  the 
Taliban.  We  welcome  those  mechanisms  as  well 
as  other  initiatives  that  conform,  with  and  help  to 
reinforce,  our  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace 
efforts  in  line  with  the  Kabul  Process  for  Peace  and 
Security Cooperation.
Moreover,  in  the  context  of  Afghanistan-Pakistan 
relations,  this  year’s  draft  resolution  highlights  the 
signing  in  April  of  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  Action 
Plan for Peace and Solidarity. That mechanism is aimed 
at  improving  cooperation  in  addressing  outstanding 
concerns related to combating terrorism and outlining 
clear measures to advance peace efforts. The effective 
implementation  of  commitments  under  the  Action 
Plan  is  a  crucial  imperative.  No  country  can  benefit 
more  from  a  peaceful  and  stable  Afghanistan  than 
Pakistan itself.
Last week in Geneva, the international community 
and  Afghanistan  came  together  to  assess  our  joint 
progress on a wide spectrum of issues that are pivotal for 
my country’s stability. For our part, we spoke about the 
progress we have made in meeting benchmarks set forth 
in the national priority programmes of the Self-Reliance 
through  Mutual  Accountability  Framework.  We  have 
focused  on  security-sector,  civil-service  and  fiscal 
reform and improved governance and anti-corruption. 
Those measures aim to strengthen governance and the 
rule of law, subjects at the core of our reform agenda. To 
that end, we have implemented new judicial measures 
so as to ensure a society where all individuals — both 
in and outside of Government — operate in accordance 
with the laws of the land.
In  the  coming  years  we  will  remain  closely 
engaged with international partners to meet reciprocal 
commitments under the Geneva Mutual Accountability 
Framework.  Mutual  progress  on  those  commitments 
will be reviewed through the annual meeting of the Joint 
Coordination and Monitoring Board in 2019, which is 
made  up  of  senior  officials,  and  our  next  ministerial 
meeting,  to  be  held  in  2020.  As  Afghanistan  remains 
18-41573
3/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
fully  engaged  in  fulfilling  its  share  of  commitments, 
we  will  strive  to  maintain  continued  focus  in  the 
alignment, efficiency and coordination of development 
aid from international partners.
This  year’s  draft  resolution  highlights  once  again 
the direct link between regional economic cooperation 
and peace, security and stability in Afghanistan and the 
region.  In  the  past  year  we  witnessed  ongoing  efforts 
aimed  at  strengthening  connectivity  through  various 
megaprojects designed to bring transformative change 
to the region by linking peoples, cultures, products and, 
above  all,  our  economies,  with  the  aim  of  achieving 
shared prosperity. Our commitment to that endeavour 
is  manifested  by  the  Afghan-led  Regional  Economic 
Cooperation Conference on Afghanistan process, under 
which progress continues be made on such initiatives as 
the  Central  Asia  South  Asia  Electricity  Transmission 
and  Trade  Project,  the  Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan-India  Pipeline,  the  Lapis  Lazuli  corridor, 
the  Turkmenistan-Uzbekistan-Tajikistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan power project, the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-
Pakistan 500 kilovolts Line, the Chabahar Port and the 
Five  Nations  Railway  Corridor.  Among  the  notable 
achievements made this year was the operationalization 
of  air  corridors  with  the  addition  of  a  number  of 
countries since last year, leading to increased trade in 
goods and services.
More broadly, we look forward to working with other 
regional and international partners to advance regional 
cooperation  in  the  areas  of  security  and  social  and 
economic development under other regional initiatives, 
such  as  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization,  the 
Economic Cooperation Organization, the South Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation,  the  Central 
Asia Regional Economic Cooperation Programme, the 
Conference  on  Interaction  and  Confidence-Building 
Measures in Asia and others.
Afghanistan  is  a  unique  example  whereby  many 
countries  from  distinct  regions  and  political  blocs 
converged  in  2001  to  attain  a  common  objective:  to 
defeat  international  terrorism  and  promote  a  more 
secure and stable international landscape for all. That 
mission began with a strong consensus that cooperation 
and  collaboration  would  serve  everyone’s  interests. 
Experience  has  shown  that  progress  is  most  tangible 
when  countries  of  the  region  and  beyond  display 
effective  cooperation  in  the  context  of  international 
engagement in our country. At this critical stage, it is 
imperative  to  regenerate  and  solidify  that  consensus 
for  the  achievement  of  the  goals  at  hand.  In  that 
respect,  this  year’s  draft  resolution  calls  for  a  closer 
and  more  coordinated  approach  among  regional  and 
international stakeholders in advancing peace, security 
and prosperity in Afghanistan.
In conclusion, I urge everyone present here — our 
allies and partners at the United Nations — to believe 
in the promise and potential of Afghanistan. Together 
we  have  travelled  a  long  road  full  of  challenges 
and  sacrifices,  yet  we  have  witnessed  gains  on  an 
unimaginable scale. As we advance along the road to 
sustainable  peace,  it  is  time  to  build  on  those  gains. 
I  thank  our  partners  for  their  support  for  the  draft 
resolution  to  be  adopted  today,  as  well  as  for  their 
continued support for Afghanistan.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
observer of the European Union.
Mr.  Vale  de  Almeida  (European  Union):  I  have 
the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union 
(EU) and its 28 member States. The candidate countries  
Turkey,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Montenegro,  Serbia  and  Albania,  the  country  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidate Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Georgia, 
Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, align themselves 
with this statement.
Allow  me  to  begin  by  praising  the  delegation  of 
Germany and Ambassador Heusgen for their very good 
work in preparing and presenting this important draft 
resolution (A/73/L.44).
The  European  Union  would  like  to  commend  the 
United Nations for the organization and outcome of the 
Geneva  Ministerial  Conference  on  Afghanistan  held 
on 27 and 28 November. Two years after the Brussels 
Conference,  the  international  community  once  again 
reaffirmed  its  support  to  promoting  peace,  stability 
and  prosperity  in  Afghanistan.  The  European  Union 
welcomes  the  focus  at  the  Conference  on  the  peace 
dimension,  an  area  in  which  the  EU  is  particularly 
interested  and  willing  to  play  a  role  and  assume 
responsibilities. At the same time, it was important that 
participants took stock of the state of implementation 
of 
the  Afghan  reforms  and  agreed  on  concrete 
implementation benchmarks for reform to be met in the 
coming years.
Since the beginning of this year, we have witnessed 
that  are 
important  developments 
in  Afghanistan 
4/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
conducive  to  the  start  of  a  peace  process.  President 
Ghani’s unprecedented peace offer at the Kabul Process 
meeting in February, the three-day successful ceasefire 
in June and the recent plan for peace presented during 
the  Geneva  Ministerial  Conference  are  key  moments 
that illustrate that positive momentum. The European 
Union  recognizes  the  Afghan  authorities’  efforts  and 
the steps taken towards a lasting political settlement and 
inclusive peace agreement based on national consensus. 
With  the  growing  consensus  among  Afghan,  regional 
and  international  stakeholders  on  the  parameters  of  a 
potential peace process, it is now time to build on those 
positive elements and start a peace dialogue.
High 
Representative 
Federica  Mogherini 
confirmed  at  the  Geneva  Conference  the  European 
Union’s  readiness  to  play  a  role  in  supporting  peace 
talks,  and  she  put  forward  several  concrete  offers 
in  that  regard.  She  also  emphasized  the  fact  that 
the  European  Union  will  always  stand  strong  on 
the  protection  of  fundamental  rights,  particularly 
women’s  full  and  equal  enjoyment  of  such  rights  and 
the rights of children and minorities, which should not 
be  sacrificed  for  the  sake  of  rapid  progress  on  peace, 
including  on  constitutional  reforms.  The  European 
Union appreciates the fact that those elements were also 
emphasized in many other statements, including those 
of the Afghan representatives.
Afghanistan is at a crossroads, and many challenges 
still  exist  within  the  country.  The  security  situation 
remains  fragile,  and  Afghan  civilians  —  innocent 
citizens — continue to be victims of terrorist attacks. 
There  have  been  internal  reforms  in  many  areas,  but 
more needs to be done so that they are translated into 
visible  progress  and  made  to  contribute  to  building  a 
solid,  democratic  and  peaceful  society  where  human 
rights and the rule of law are respected, and to make 
them  conducive  to  economic  development  that  offers 
increased  opportunities  for  the  Afghan  people,  in 
particular the younger generation.
For the European Union’s part, in 2017 we approved 
the  EU  Strategy  on  Afghanistan.  More  recently,  in 
November,  the  Ministers  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  our 
member  States  adopted  conclusions  on  Afghanistan, 
thereby  expressing  their  firm  intention  to  continue 
and  enhance  the  work  on  the  four  strands  of  the  EU 
Strategy,  namely,  promoting  peace,  stability  and 
regional  security;  reinforcing  democracy,  the  rule  of 
law and human rights and promoting good governance 
and women’s empowerment; supporting economic and 
human development; and addressing challenges related 
to migration and forced displacement. We are continuing 
our dialogue with our Afghan partners in each of those 
four  areas.  In  coordination  with  the  United  Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime, the European Union and its 
member States will continue to support strengthening 
Afghan and regional efforts aimed at comprehensively 
fighting organized crime and reducing drug production, 
trafficking and demand.
The  European  Union  continues  to  emphasize  the 
importance of protecting human rights and promoting 
good governance, where the implementation of relevant 
legislation  remains  key,  with  a  particular  focus  on 
such  areas  as  eliminating  violence  against  women, 
implementing  the  national  action  plan  pursuant  to 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  protecting 
children and preventing torture and ill treatment.
We  are  pleased  that  discussions  at  the  Geneva 
Ministerial Conference underlined the need for women 
to  have  a  greater  role  in  society.  Although  there  has 
been  progress,  shortfalls  in  human  rights  and  equal 
opportunity remain. The number of women participating 
in  national  institutions  remains  limited,  and  the 
implementation  of  the  agenda  set  out  in  resolution 
1325  (2000)  should  not  be  confined  to  the  Afghan 
Government;  it  should  also  involve  civil  society.  We 
salute the work being undertaken to achieve a national 
consensus by Afghan women on peace, while stressing 
the  crucial  role  women  and  girls  can  play  in  conflict 
resolution and peace.
Increased  efforts  aimed  at  implementing  reforms 
must  continue,  especially  those  related  to,  the  fight 
against corruption, where there is a strong demand from 
the  Afghan  population.  It  will  have  a  positive  impact 
on  the  economy  and  the  development  of  the  private 
sector. Foreign investment and economic development 
are heavily dependent on both peace and the continued 
implementation of reforms.
In  support  of  Afghan  reforms,  at  the  margins  of 
the  Geneva  Ministerial  Conference,  the  European 
Union  signed  a  €474  million  support  package  for 
Afghanistan, including more than €300 million for the 
State-Building and Resilience Contract for Afghanistan 
2018-2021. That key initiative affirmed the engagement 
and  reliability  of  the  European  Union  as  a  partner 
of  Afghanistan.  A  stable,  peaceful  and  democratic 
Afghanistan  that  respects  human  dignity  is  in  the 
interest of the European Union.
18-41573
5/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
The holding of parliamentary elections on 20 and 
21 October was also a positive signal, despite serious 
technical  and 
logistical  difficulties  and  security 
threats.  Many  Afghans,  including  women  and  young 
people,  exercised  their  democratic  right  to  vote.  It  is 
important to now start working on the lessons learned 
from these elections, in view of next year’s presidential 
elections,  which  are  expected  to  take  place  according 
to schedule. The coming months are essential, as strong 
and  swift  measures  that  will  ensure  and  preserve  the 
safety,  transparency,  accountability  and  credibility  of 
the ballot need to be taken.
The  European  Union  will  continue 
to  work 
alongside  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community in support of the Afghan electoral process. 
We have committed more than €15 million to assisting 
the presidential elections, with the coordination of the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan, 
and continue to implement the EU-funded Instrument 
contributing  to  Stability  and  Peace,  which  will  help 
to  reduce  vulnerabilities  in  the  electoral  process, 
encourage 
internal  monitoring  by  civil  society 
organizations, inclusiveness among the political parties 
and women’s participation in the process.
With  regard  to  migration,  in  the  framework  of 
the  EU-Afghanistan  Joint  Way  Forward  and  through 
bilateral  memorandums  of  understanding  with  other 
Member States, the European Union and Afghanistan 
continued their comprehensive dialogue, including on 
the  regional  dimension  of  migration.  Very  recently, 
in Brussels, we discussed cooperation in terms of the 
Joint  Way  Forward  framework.  At  the  same  time,  we 
are actively engaged in finding lasting solutions for the 
Afghan  displacement  and  migration  situation,  taking 
into  consideration,  of  course,  the  regional  dimension 
as well. The latest trends showing decreases in returns 
from Pakistan are encouraging, as they will allow the 
proper reintegration of returnees into Afghanistan. At 
the Geneva Ministerial Conference side event on people 
on the move, which we co-organized, we also had an 
opportunity  to  discuss  and  raise  awareness  about  the 
displacement  and  migration  of  Afghan  nationals.  We 
will  continue  to  support  the  Afghan  Government’s 
actions  and  efforts  aimed  at  reintegrating  returned 
Afghan nationals, not only from Europe but also from 
neighbouring countries.
We remain deeply concerned about the high number 
of  civilian  casualties  and  the  increasing  number  of 
displaced people, and we call on all parties to protect 
the civilian population, especially women and children. 
Conflict-related violence must not be allowed to destroy 
another  generation’s  livelihood,  homes  and  property, 
displacing  families  and  limiting  access  to  education, 
health care and other services. We need to continue to 
protect the vital role that humanitarian agencies play and 
respect their impartiality and the humanitarian space in 
which the most urgent needs of the most vulnerable are 
addressed. Improving security remains a precondition 
for stability and development in Afghanistan.
In  conclusion,  much  has  been  achieved,  and  the 
Afghanistan that we see today is different in so many 
ways from what it was several years ago. The European 
Union  recognizes  the  progress  and  reforms  made 
so  far.  We  strongly  support  the  Afghan  authorities 
in  their  pursuit  of  long-term  stability.  Afghanistan 
needs  to  build  on  the  current  positive  momentum, 
start peace talks and end the conflict that is harming 
many innocent people. The European Union recognizes 
the  important  work  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan, and we will continue to work 
together  with  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  regional 
and  international  partners,  to  support  the  people  and 
the authorities of Afghanistan in their efforts to achieve 
lasting peace and stability.
Ms.  Brink  (Australia):  Australia  is  pleased  to 
co-sponsor  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44 
today.  We 
thank  colleagues,  particularly  those  from  Germany 
and  Afghanistan,  for  the  leadership  they  showed  in 
developing this year’s draft resolution, which represents 
a resounding demonstration of continued international 
support  for  Afghanistan  and  its  people  as  they  seek 
to  achieve  peace  and  development.  Together  with  its 
international  partners,  Australia  remains  committed 
to  Afghanistan’s  security  and  development  as  it 
works  towards  self-reliance.  We  reaffirm  Australia’s 
commitment  to  NATO’s  Resolute  Support  Mission, 
which is building the capacity of the Afghan security 
forces to protect Afghanistan’s future.
The  Australian  Government  strongly  condemns 
violence in Afghanistan, which has continued unabated 
in 2018. This year’s increasing toll on civilians is a stark 
reminder  of  the  suffering  of  the  Afghan  people.  We 
offer our condolences for those tragic events, including 
the recent conflict in Ghazni and the shocking attacks 
in  Kabul,  which  previous  speakers  have  touched 
upon.  We  also  honour  the  sacrifices  of  members  of 
the Afghan security forces, as well as those of NATO 
and  partner  forces  who  -lost  their  lives  in  support  of 
6/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
to 
its  announcement 
their Afghan colleagues. Australia supports the Afghan 
Government’s  determined  pursuit  of  peace  in  2018, 
from  its  February  offer  to  the  Taliban  of  negotiations 
without  preconditions, 
in 
November  of  the  formation  of  a  negotiating  team 
together with the drafting of negotiating principles. We 
also welcome the outcomes from the November Geneva 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Afghanistan,  in  which  the 
Afghan Government renewed its commitment to reform 
and which enhanced momentum for an Afghan-led and 
Afghan-owned peace process.
We call on the Taliban to commit to a ceasefire and 
join  their  fellow  Afghans,  especially  the  Government 
of  Afghanistan,  at  the  negotiating  table.  We  reaffirm 
Australia’s support for the Kabul Process and encourage 
all parties to use that mechanism to focus their efforts 
on  achieving  an 
inclusive  and  durable  political 
settlement.  Durable  peace  will  mean  finding  ways  to 
preserve  progress,  protect  rights,  provide  economic 
opportunities and include all of Afghanistan’s people in 
its future. Afghanistan’s neighbours have an especially 
important role to play.
steps 
the  positive 
We  welcome 
taken  by 
Afghanistan  and  its  neighbours  through  the  Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan 
and  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process  to  facilitate 
regional  cooperation  and  encourage  sustainable  trade 
and  investment.  We  encourage  enhanced  engagement 
between Afghanistan and Pakistan and urge that priority 
be given to strengthening this bilateral relationship so 
as  to  ensure  regional  stability.  As  partners  in  peace, 
the  international  community  continues  to  support 
Afghanistan’s  efforts  to  establish  the  conditions  that 
can  sustain  a  negotiated  settlement.  We  look  forward 
to  Afghans’  further  expressing  their  commitment 
to  democracy  in  the  2019  presidential  elections,  as 
Afghanistan progresses towards self-reliance.
Australia  has  provided  approximately  $1.4  billion 
in  development  assistance  since  2001,  including  a 
$5 million contribution for emergency assistance to the 
more than 1 million Afghans who are on the verge of 
acute famine. We are meeting our Brussels Ministerial 
Conference  commitments  to  providing  $320  million 
from  2016  to  2020  and  will  continue  to  invest  in  a 
secure  and  stable  Afghanistan  beyond  2020.  Together 
with  its  international  partners,  Australia  stands  with 
Afghanistan as it charts a course towards a more secure 
and prosperous future. We encourage all Member States 
to do the same and support the draft resolution.
Ms. Gambhir (India): I thank the President of the 
General  Assembly  for  organizing  today’s  debate.  We 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  delegation  of  Germany 
for  facilitating  the  very  important  draft  resolution 
contained  in  document  A/73/L.44.  My  delegation 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  consensual  adoption 
of  the  General  Assembly’s  annual  draft  resolution 
on  Afghanistan,  as  it  is  an  important  opportunity  for 
the international community as a whole to express its 
solidarity for peace and stability in Afghanistan.
the 
last  month, 
Many  Member  States  attended 
recently 
on 
concluded  Geneva  Ministerial  Conference 
Afghanistan 
the 
thereby  reaffirming 
international  community’s  commitment  —  as  well  as 
that of the United Nations — to Afghanistan. As stated 
by  President  Ghani  at  the  Geneva  Conference,  this 
year reflects how Afghanistan is gaining control of its 
destiny and how Afghans are taking ownership of their 
own problems and demonstrating leadership in finding 
solutions.  Despite  mounting  challenges 
involving 
security,  peace  and  development,  there  was  also 
considerable  progress  in  the  past  17  years,  especially 
in  promoting  education  and  health  care,  protecting 
the  rights  of  women,  children  and  the  marginalized, 
safeguarding lives, improving governance and reforms, 
generating livelihood and moving Afghanistan towards 
self-reliance.  Democracy  in  Afghanistan  is  taking 
deeper roots.
The  enthusiastic  participation  of  the  people  of 
Afghanistan  in  the  parliamentary  elections  held  last 
month,  despite  terrorist  violence,  reflects  their  desire 
for,  and  faith  in,  democratic  governance  and  the 
rejection  of  forces  that  foment  and  spread  terror  and 
violence. The presidential elections scheduled for next 
year should further strengthen democratic institutions. 
Those  gains,  achieved  in  the  face  extreme  adversity 
and violence, demonstrate the indomitable courage and 
determination of our Afghan friends.
While  the  people  of  Afghanistan  strive  for  better 
lives  and  a  peaceful  future,  the  challenges  they  face 
only  increased  in  the  recent  past.  According  to  the 
latest statistics from the Global Terrorism Index, which 
were released this week, Afghanistan is now the world’s 
deadliest country when it comes to terrorism. Sadly, one 
quarter of terrorism-related deaths throughout the world 
in 2017 occurred in Afghanistan. It is indeed sad that 
we, as the international community, saw it coming. The 
relevant reports of the Secretary-General — year after 
year, month after month — have demonstrated that the 
18-41573
7/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
violence and terror in Afghanistan have shown no signs 
of abating. We have witnessed the increased frequency 
of  attacks  in  places  where  they  were  never  imagined 
to  be  possible  before.  Even  the  sick  and  wounded  in 
hospitals,  young  boys  and  girls  in  schools,  praying 
devotees in mosques and mourners at funerals have not 
been spared from the forces of terror and violence.
themselves 
It  is  clear  that  terrorists  and  those  who  plan  such 
attacks  are  not  interested  in  peace.  The  goalposts  for 
them  have  changed.  Terrorists  and  their  supporters 
have  now  created  among 
industries 
involving narcotics and illegal mining in the territories 
that they control, and are stealing the resources of the 
Afghan  people  to  fund  more  violence  and  terrorism. 
Despite those challenges, however, the United Nations 
has  not  demonstrated  the  necessary  resolve  to  deal 
with the source of the problem. The Security Council 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1988 
(2011),  which  refuses  to  designate  new  leaders  of  the 
Taliban or freeze the assets of its slain leader, is falling 
short  of  what  is  expected  of  it  by  Afghans  and  the 
international community. From lessons learned in the 
past,  we  who  are  situated  in  New  York  have  become 
aware  that  peace  in  Afghanistan  is  linked  with  the 
peace and security situation of the entire world.
While  all  of  us  advocate  that  there  is  no  military 
solution  to  the  issue,  the  Taliban  —  aided  by  its 
supporters — continues to pursue military operations, 
perpetrating  violence  and  destruction,  such  as  the 
recent  attack  in  Kabul  and  similar  ones  across  other 
parts  of  Afghanistan.  Those  offensives  were  planned 
and  launched  by  those  who  have  been  harboured  in 
safe  havens  in  Afghanistan’s  neighbourhood.  Those 
sanctuaries have for years provided safety for the dark 
agendas of ideologically and operationally fused terror 
networks,  such  as  the  Taliban,  the  Haqqani  Network, 
Da’esh and Al-Qaida, and its proscribed affiliates such 
as the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.
that  promotes  and  protects 
We  support  an  inclusive  Afghan-led,  Afghan-
owned and Afghan-controlled peace and reconciliation 
process 
the  unity, 
sovereignty,  democracy,  inclusiveness  and  prosperity 
of  Afghanistan.  Any  meaningful  progress  towards 
sustainable  peace  requires  a  cessation  of  terrorist 
violence,  the  renunciation  of  links  with  international 
terrorism and respect for the rights of common Afghan 
people, especially women, children and minorities.
India  has  always  stood  shoulder  to  shoulder  with 
our  Afghan  friends,  and  it  will  continue  to  do  so  in 
this transformation decade by providing the assistance 
that  Afghanistan  needs  and  seeks.  Building  reliable 
connectivity  for  landlocked  Afghanistan  is  a  key 
component of our regional partnership. In undertaking 
those  endeavours,  we  are  mindful  of  how  important 
it  is  that  all  such  projects  respect  State  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  and  be  based  on  universally 
recognized  international  norms,  transparency  and  the 
principles  of  financial  responsibility,  ecological  and 
environmental  protection  and  preservation  standards. 
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  are  engaged  in  various 
connectivity  projects  in  the  region,  including  the 
Chabahar Port project and the direct India-Afghanistan 
air-freight  corridor,  which  were  successfully  made 
operational  in  the  recent  past,  and  we  will  continue 
to  build  on  the  gains  achieved.  We  will  continue  to 
work with all those who share in the spirit of helping 
Afghanistan without conditions.
From a young age, Indians are familiar with the tales 
of Afghan courage, resilience and determination, which 
have long been a source admiration and inspiration in 
our region. We only hope that the courage of Afghans 
can be matched by that of the international community 
in  doing,  for  its  part,  what  needs  to  be  done  to  bring 
peace to this war-torn country.
Ms. Zahir (Maldives): The Maldives is encouraged 
to  see  the  positive  steps  that  Afghanistan  is  taking 
towards  peace  and  development,  despite  terrorist 
attacks  and  the  continued  threat  of  such  attacks.  The 
Government  and  the  people  of  Maldives  support  and 
share  the  vision  of  a  prosperous  Afghanistan  that  is 
Afghan-led and Afghan-owned.
The people of Afghanistan have shown extraordinary 
resilience and determination in rebuilding their country. 
President  Ashraf  Ghani  has  shown  extraordinary 
leadership and courage in promoting democratic values 
in  the  country.  The  general  election  held  in  October 
was  one  of  the  most  important  steps  taken  in  this, 
Afghanistan’s  transformation  decade.  Through  the 
ballot box, the people of Afghanistan have consistently 
chosen the path of peace, of tolerance over extremism 
and  of  cooperation  over  confrontation.  We  especially 
welcome the continued implementation of overlapping 
ceasefires  between  the  Afghan  Government  and  the 
Taliban, which also helps to maintain the peace process 
in  the  country.  It  is  further  encouraging  to  note  that 
the  process  is  supported  by  the  increasingly  active 
8/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
engagement of civil society and religious leaders. Such 
engagement  of  civil  society  is  evidence  of  signs  of 
flexibility among the main parties to the conflict.
The Maldives Government congratulates President 
Ghani  on  his  announcement  of  a  unilateral  cessation 
of  hostilities  with  the  Taliban,  which  was  followed 
by  the  Taliban  issuing  its  own  ceasefire  declaration. 
Those positive developments require the support of the 
international  community.  Accordingly,  the  Maldives 
reiterates its call on the United Nations and its Member 
States to support Afghanistan in rebuilding the country, 
consolidating the authority of its State and institutions 
and helping the Government maintain law and order.
The progress Afghanistan is making in promoting 
human  rights  values  in  the  country,  especially  for 
women and girls, is quite remarkable. With an increased 
focus on reducing sexual and gender-based violence, the 
people of Afghanistan can achieve an even more stable, 
secure  and  equal  society.  The  relatively  high  level  of 
participation by women in the October general election 
was  an  encouraging  sign.  We  would  like  to  see  that 
upward trajectory continue. We would also like to see 
a greater participation by women in peace negotiations, 
peacebuilding  and  conflict  prevention  so  as  to  better 
sustain peace in the country.
the  Maldives 
As we approach the fifth year of the Afghanistan 
recognizes 
transformation  decade, 
the  progress  being  made  thanks  to  the  successful 
implementation of some of the key components of the 
action  plan  and  hopes  that  the  country  continues  to 
tackle  the  significant  and  complex  challenges  related 
to  insecurity,  poverty  and  corruption.  With  greater 
economic  integration  in  the  region,  Afghanistan  will 
be  able  to  ensure  safety  and  welfare  for  its  people. 
That  requires  the  full  commitment  of  all  partners  in 
the  region,  including  the  South  Asian  Association  for 
Regional  Cooperation.  The  Maldives  acknowledges 
the  important  steps  taken  by  Afghanistan  towards 
enhancing regional cooperation.
A stable, safe, peaceful and prosperous Afghanistan 
will  not  only  benefit  the  hard-working  people  of 
Afghanistan, but is also of interest to the entire region, 
its economic partners and the international community 
as a whole. We therefore once again issue a call: let us 
strengthen our efforts to support Afghanistan and make 
it the place it deserves to be.
suffering  caused  by  war, internecine  conflicts and 
foreign  interventions  in  their  country.  Violence  and 
turmoil in Afghanistan have not only undermined peace 
and  security  and  development  in  the  country  and  the 
region; they also pose a continuing threat to international 
peace and security. Through Afghanistan’s travails and 
tragedy, the global community has remained steadfast 
in its support for the Afghan people.
Apart  from  Afghanistan  itself,  it  is  Pakistan  that 
has endured the greatest suffering and damage from the 
strife,  violence  and  instability  in  Afghanistan  and  in 
our neighbourhood. Despite the many burdens that the 
situation has imposed on my country, our support for our 
Afghan brothers and sisters has remained consistent and 
resolute. We opened our hearts and homes to millions 
of Afghan refugees and have sustained them for almost 
four  decades,  with  less  than  adequate  support  from 
the  international  community.  Even  today,  Pakistan 
continues to host more than 2 million Afghans — the 
largest  protracted  presence  of  refugees  anywhere  in 
the world.
Pakistan  has  a  vital  interest  in  a  peaceful,  stable, 
united  and  prosperous  Afghanistan.  We  are  working 
to  strengthen  bilateral  relations  through  the  recently 
agreed Afghanistan-Pakistan Action Plan for Peace and 
Solidarity, which aims at establishing closer engagement 
on political, economic, military, intelligence and refugee 
issues. We have undertaken a number of initiatives to 
support Afghanistan’s economic development. Over the 
past decade, Pakistan has extended financial assistance 
for  various  infrastructure  and  development  projects 
in Afghanistan. Last year’s waiver of regulatory duties 
resulted  in  a  significant  increase  in  the  country’s 
exports  to  Pakistan,  which  remains  Afghanistan’s 
largest market.
We have also taken steps to improve the transit of 
Afghan  trade  through  our  ports.  We  look  forward  to 
the day when transit trade from Central Asia can flow 
through  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan,  the  shortest  route 
to  the  Arabian  Sea.  My  country  is  also  committed  to 
several  regional  projects,  including  Turkmenistan-
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India  energy  and  natural-gas 
initiatives and the Central Asia South Asia Electricity 
Transmission and Trade Project, which will contribute 
to  the  economic  integration  of  the  entire  region  and 
promote South-South cooperation.
Ms. Lodhi (Pakistan): For the past several decades, 
the  people  of  Afghanistan  have  experienced  epic 
The  level  of  violence  has  escalated  sharply  in 
Afghanistan  over  the  past  several  months.  According 
18-41573
9/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
independent  reports, 
to 
the  areas  under  Taliban 
control  or  influence  have  become  further  enlarged. 
Civilian  and  military  casualties  have  mounted  owing 
to  insurgent  attacks  and  coalition  air  strikes.  The 
conflict in Afghanistan is clearly expanding, but it has 
also reached a stalemate. It is evident that neither the 
coalition nor the Taliban will be able to impose its will 
on  the  other.  A  negotiated  political  settlement  is  the 
only way to end the violence and bloodshed and realize 
peace in Afghanistan.
Despite the bleak picture, there are several positive 
developments, the most important of which is the now-
clear international consensus that durable peace can be 
achieved only through a political settlement. For over 
two decades, Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Imran Ahmad 
Khan  Niazi,  has  repeatedly  declared  that  the  war  in 
Afghanistan can be brought to an end only through a 
negotiated political settlement. We are gratified that is 
now the universal position.
The second positive development is the willingness 
expressed  by  President  Ashraf  Ghani  and 
the 
Government  of  National  Unity to  pursue  a  negotiated 
settlement 
in  any  available  modality  or  format. 
We  welcome  the  nomination  of  the  Government’s 
negotiating team.
The  third  positive  development  is  the  decision  of 
the United States to play an active role in promoting a 
political  settlement  and  engaging  in  direct  talks  with 
the Taliban. A third round of talks about talks is being 
conducted by the United States Special Envoy through 
direct  dialogue  with  the  Taliban’s  representatives  in 
Doha.  In  response  to  President  Trump’s  request,  my 
country’s Prime Minister has promised to do all we can 
to support the process.
The  efforts  being  made  by  Russia,  China  and 
other States of the region to promote engagement and 
dialogue with and among the Afghan parties represent 
a  fourth  positive  development.  Sustainable  peace  will 
require the endorsement of every State in the region.
The  Moscow-format  dialogue  last  month  brought 
representatives  of  the  Taliban,  the  Afghanistan  High 
Peace Council, the United States and key countries of 
the  region  around  the  same  table  to  discuss  the  path 
to  peace  and  reconciliation  in  Afghanistan.  Taliban 
representatives  outlined  their  known  position  there. 
We hope that, in subsequent talks in various formats, 
the positions of the principal parties will move closer 
to convergence.
It  is  obvious  that  the  people  of  Afghanistan 
desperately desire peace and an end to this long war. The 
brief ceasefire observed over the Eid al-Fitr holidays, 
the  peace  marches  and  the  recent  parliamentary 
elections in Afghanistan are all signs that embody the 
people’s yearning for peace. Peace will be realized by 
building on that palpable desire for peace and putting 
an end to the nightmare of war.
But  the  challenge  ahead  lies  is  translating  that 
sentiment  and  the  recent  positive  developments  into 
a  serious,  sustained  and  structured  peace  process. 
A  diplomatic  surge  is  needed  to  seize  this  unique 
opportunity. While the onus for seizing this opportunity 
rests  on  the  parties  directly  involved  in  the  Afghan 
conflict, Pakistan, for its part, will do whatever it can to 
support all efforts to launch a sustained peace process.
Finally, let me say that Afghanistan and our region 
are at a crucial, critical juncture. The path to peace in 
Afghanistan is onerous, but it appears to be achievable. 
It is now for the parties concerned to commit themselves 
to  working  seriously  towards  a  negotiated  solution  to 
the conflict. That approach offers the best chance to end 
the suffering of the Afghan people and restore peace to 
Afghanistan, and stability to the region as a whole.
Mr. Hattrem (Norway): I commend the Secretary-
General for his report on the situation in Afghanistan 
(A/73/374). The United Nations and the United Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan have a vital role to 
play in the efforts to promote peace and development. 
We welcome this opportunity to discuss the way ahead 
for Afghanistan.
There  is  broad  international  agreement  that  the 
conflict in Afghanistan can be resolved only by political 
means. We commend President Ghani’s brave offer to 
the Taliban of peace negotiations without preconditions, 
in  February.  We  were  encouraged  by  the  fact  that 
during  the  Eid  al-Fitr  celebrations  in  June  the  two 
Afghan parties declared unilateral, partly overlapping 
ceasefires. The ceasefires reduced the suffering of the 
Afghan people and were largely welcomed by them.
We have noted with great interest the efforts by the 
United States to engage the Taliban in exploratory talks 
about  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  Afghan  conflict.  We 
have also noted the efforts by partners in the region to 
support a negotiated solution. Countries in the region 
have a vital role to play in securing long-term stability 
and development.
10/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
Norway  will  continue  its  efforts  to  bring  the 
different  parties  and  other  relevant  actors  together 
to  find  a  political  solution.  However,  nothing  will 
succeed unless the Afghan parties dedicate themselves 
wholeheartedly to reaching a peaceful settlement. We 
urge  the  Taliban  to  engage  the  Afghan  Government 
in  negotiations.  If  a  settlement  is  achieved,  the 
international  community  must  be  ready  to  offer  the 
necessary  assistance,  financially  and  otherwise,  to 
support its implementation.
Women play a vital role in efforts to reach a peaceful 
solution. We trust that the protection of women’s rights 
will  be  a  priority  in  any  settlement.  Women  must  be 
included in all efforts to achieve a negotiated settlement 
and  in  its  eventual  implementation.  We  note  with 
satisfaction the activism for peace among an increasing 
number  of  Afghan  women,  from  the  grass-roots  level 
all the way up to First Lady Rula Ghani.
At present the security situation remains precarious. 
The Taliban has gained ground. The recent drought has 
brought about great hardship, misery and displacement. 
We condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks 
that  have  caused  the  loss  of  so  many  civilian  lives, 
in  Kabul  and  elsewhere.  International  military  and 
civilian assistance remains essential to provide stability 
and prevent the spread of violent extremism, which also 
poses a threat to international security.
The  Geneva  Ministerial  Conference  last  week 
recognized  that  some  important  progress  has  been 
made  in  terms  of  good  governance,  the  fight  against 
corruption, women’s rights and other important areas. 
The  Conference  also  brought  attention  to  the  vast 
challenges that remain and noted room for progress.
Norway commends the brave people who went to 
the  polling  stations  during  the  recent  parliamentary 
elections,  as  well  as  the  Afghan  National  Defence 
and  Security  Forces,  which  worked  hard  to  provide 
security.  However,  we  cannot  disregard  the  fact  that 
there were significant shortcomings. The large number 
of  complaints  and  the  recent  news  that  the  Electoral 
Complaints  Commission  had  invalidated  the  election 
results for the city of Kabul are disturbing. Significant 
improvements  must  be  made  before  the  presidential 
elections in April 2019.
Our  focus  should  be  on  securing  a  sovereign, 
independent Afghanistan, as enshrined in the Afghan 
Constitution.  Afghanistan  must  be  able  to  take  care 
of  its  own  security  and  defend  itself  with  its  own 
defence forces, without the need for a continued foreign 
military presence.
The Afghan people deserve to live in peace. Let us 
all contribute towards that goal.
Mr.  Sinirlioğlu  (Turkey):  Turkey 
is  pleased 
to  co-sponsor  the  draft  resolution  before  us  today 
(A/73/L.44).  We 
its  adoption 
by consensus.
to 
look 
forward 
We deem this comprehensive draft resolution to be 
very  important,  as  it  highlights  the  achievements  and 
responsibilities of both Afghanistan and the international 
community. It constitutes a solid manifestation of our 
joint  support  for  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan in addressing ongoing challenges.
Afghanistan  is  continuing  its  journey  of  political 
and  economic  transformation.  The  achievements  over 
the  past  decade,  including  in  the  areas  of  security, 
democracy, governance and economic development, are 
praiseworthy.  The  holding  of  parliamentary  elections 
on 20 October was an important step forward.
Afghanistan’s  security  and  stability  remain  a  key 
priority.  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace  and 
reconciliation  efforts  are  crucial  to  lasting  peace  and 
security  in  Afghanistan.  Long-term  strategies  and 
consolidated reforms are essential both for maintaining 
progress  and  addressing  challenges  in  areas  such  as 
education, health and displacement.
The region has demonstrated, on various occasions, 
its readiness to resolve its own problems and transform 
common  problems  into  areas  of  mutual  benefit.  We 
fully  support  the  regional  connectivity  projects  that 
centre  around  Afghanistan,  such  as  the  Lapis  Lazuli 
Transit, Trade and Transport Route Agreement as well 
as the development of air corridors.
We  value  bilateral  and  multilateral  dialogue 
and  cooperation  efforts.  We  welcome  the  increased 
momentum that has been achieved through the Istanbul 
Process, which is an effective cooperation model capable 
of  bringing  practical  solutions  to  current  challenges 
in  the  Heart  of  Asia  region.  We  will  soon  host  the 
annual Ministerial Conference of the Istanbul Process. 
Besides  our  efforts  aimed  at  consolidating  regional 
ownership, we will also continue to lend our support to 
Afghanistan’s security as a NATO Framework Nation 
and through NATO’s Resolute Support Mission, among 
other efforts.
18-41573
11/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
Turkey  will  continue  its  support  for  the  Afghan 
Government in its endeavours towards peace, stability 
and development. Our programme of assistance to the 
Afghan people is the most comprehensive development 
aid we have directed to a single country in our history. 
As of September 2018, 1,056 development projects had 
been  completed.  Turkish  development  assistance  to 
Afghanistan amounts to approximately $1.1 billion.
The  continued  support  of 
international 
community  will  strengthen  the  hopes  of  the  Afghan 
people  for  a  bright  future.  We  will  always  stand  by 
our  Afghan  brothers  and  sisters  as  long  as  our  help 
is needed.
the 
Mr. Wu Haitao (China) (spoke in Chinese): Peace 
and  stability  in  Afghanistan  not  only  concern  the 
immediate interests of the Afghan people but also affect 
regional security, stability, development and prosperity.
At  present,  the  security  situation  in  Afghanistan 
provides no grounds for optimism, and the humanitarian 
situation  presents  multiple  challenges.  The  National 
Unity  Government 
to  promoting 
socioeconomic  development  and  maintaining  peace 
and  stability.  The  international  community  should 
continue 
to 
Afghanistan. 
to  provide  support  and  assistance 
is  committed 
First,  based  on  its  commitments  to  promoting 
political  dialogue  and  the  reconciliation  process,  the 
international  community  should  support  an  inclusive 
political  process  that  is  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-
owned, support the efforts of the Afghan Government 
in promoting peace talks, urge the Taliban to return to 
the negotiation table without delay, and help to achieve 
continuous  progress  in  the  reconciliation  process. 
International mechanisms, including the Quadrilateral 
Coordination  Group  —  made  up  of  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan, China and the United States of America — the 
Kabul process, the Moscow format consultations and the 
Istanbul Process, should continue to play their respective 
roles, with international support, in order to facilitate 
the  peace  and  reconciliation  process  in  Afghanistan 
and create a favourable international environment.
is 
to 
improve 
A  second  focus 
the  security 
environment  and  maintain  peace  and  stability  in 
Afghanistan.  Conflicts  continued  unabated  in  the 
country in the first half of this year, and drug-related 
crime remained a serious problem. The Afghan National 
Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) bear the primary 
responsibility  for  maintaining  the  country’s  peace, 
security  and  stability.  The  international  community 
should  enhance  coordination  and  cooperation  and 
continue to support the ANDSF in building its capacity 
to  respond  effectively  to  such  threats  as  terrorism, 
transnational crimes and drug-trafficking.
in  Afghanistan.  The 
Thirdly,  priority  must  be  given  to  achieving 
independent  development  and  improving  the  lives  of 
the Afghan people. The successful Geneva Ministerial 
Conference  on  Afghanistan  held  in  late  November 
adopted  a  series  of  outcome  documents  that  will 
contribute  to  the  prompt  achievement  of  independent 
development 
international 
community  should  sustain  its  attention  directed  at 
improving  lives  in  the  country,  provide  development 
assistance  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Afghanistan,  respect  the  people’s  independent  choice 
of  a  political  system  and  development  path  and  offer 
targeted assistance to the Government of Afghanistan 
so as to improve governance and development capacity 
based  on  the  country’s  development  strategy  and 
specific needs.
Fourthly,  we  must  provide  the  badly  needed  aid 
supplies and alleviate the humanitarian situation. The 
recent drought has affected the livelihoods of millions 
of Afghan people, exacerbating the already precarious 
humanitarian  situation.  The  international  community 
should  provide  the  Afghan  people  with  emergency 
humanitarian assistance in terms of production, water, 
food  and  medical  supplies  in  order  to  mitigate  the 
suffering of the drought-affected population.
Afghanistan  and  its  neighbours  need  to  address 
the  issue  of  the  return  of  5  million  refugees.  The 
international  community  should  continue  to  provide 
humanitarian  support  to  Afghan  refugees  as  well  as 
their host countries.
China  enjoys 
long-standing  good-neighbourly 
relations  with  Afghanistan  and  has  consistently 
supported 
process, 
reconstruction  and  development.  China  has  provided 
bilateral  assistance  to  help  build  Afghan  capacity  to 
fight  terrorism  and  supported  its  national  counter-
terrorism efforts through multilateral mechanisms such 
as the China-Afghanistan-Pakistan trilateral initiative 
and  the  Quadrilateral  Cooperation  and  Coordination 
Mechanism 
countries 
and Tajikistan.
involving 
country’s 
political 
the 
those 
three 
The eighteenth Summit of the Shanghai Cooperation 
Organization  (SCO),  held  in  June  in  Qingdao,  China, 
12/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
adopted  the  Qingdao  Declaration,  reaffirming  SCO 
support  for  Afghanistan  in  such  areas  as  security, 
economic development and the fight against terrorism, 
extremism, drugs and crime. China has also provided 
¥60  million  for  Afghan  drought-relief  efforts  and  an 
additional $1 million to the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Refugees and the World Food 
Programme to help the Afghan people get through this 
difficult period.
China and Afghanistan continue to actively promote 
the development of the Belt and Road Initiative. Our two 
countries  are  now  connected  by  regular  direct  flights 
and  freight  trains.  Afghanistan  actively  participated 
in  the  inaugural  China  International  Import  Expo, 
held last month in Shanghai. Chinese companies have 
engaged in the construction of highways and power-grid 
projects  in  Afghanistan.  China  will  continue  to  work 
with Afghanistan to earnestly implemente our bilateral 
memorandum  of  understanding  on  the  Belt  and  Road 
Initiative  and  further  boost  Afghanistan’s  trade  with 
regional partners, as well as the country’s infrastructure, 
interconnectivity and socioeconomic development.
Afghanistan  boasts  geographical  and  resource 
advantages and broad prospects for regional economic 
cooperation.  We  hope  that  all  relevant  countries 
will  demonstrate  a  spirit  of  participation  in  broad 
consultations,  conscious  of  joint  contributions  and 
shared  benefits,  and  scale  up  regional  economic 
cooperation and interconnectivity to help Afghanistan 
benefit  from  regional  development  and  build  a 
community for the common future of humankind.
Mrs.  Alhefeiti  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank 
the  President  for  having  convened  this  important 
meeting on the situation in Afghanistan. I would also 
like  to  thank  Germany  for  its  efforts  in  facilitating 
consultations  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44,  which 
stresses the importance of continued peace and stability 
in Afghanistan.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  strongly  believes 
that  conflict  resolution  depends  on  peaceful  means, 
especially  dialogue.  We  therefore  fully  support  the 
political  reconciliation  led  by  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  and  commend  the  efforts  of  President 
Ashraf Ghani to ensure the success of the process and 
launch peace talks. The United Arab Emirates believes 
that  the  positive  participation  of  all  strata  of  Afghan 
society,  particularly  the  Taliban,  is  essential  for  the 
success of those efforts.
The United Arab Emirates delegation is concerned 
by  the  deterioration  in  the  security  situation  in 
Afghanistan  over  the  past  few  years,  especially  in 
the  light  of  the  presence  of  Al-Qaida  and  Da’esh  and 
the  continued  activities  of  other  criminal  and  armed 
groups, which have affected the United Arab Emirates. 
Indeed, I recall the terrorist attack on a delegation of 
Emirati diplomats in Kandahar participating in Emirati 
philanthropic  projects  for  the  benefit  of  the  Afghan 
people, which claimed the lives of six Emirati diplomat 
martyrs.  That  only  strengthened  our  determination 
and  commitment  to  fighting  terrorism  wherever  it 
occurs.  In  that  regard,  we  express  our  solidarity  with 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  in  its  efforts  to  fight 
that scourge.
Ms.  Shikongo  (Namibia),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
Within  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process  on 
Regional  Security  and  Cooperation  for  a  Secure 
and  Stable  Afghanistan,  the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
in 
its  capacity  as  co-chair  for  counterterrorism 
confidence-building  measures,  hosted  in  Abu  Dhabi 
recently the seventh Regional Technical Group Meeting 
on  Counter-terrorism  Confidence-building  Measures 
for  the  Heart  of  Asia-Istanbul  Process,  which  sought 
to  enhance  regional  security  cooperation  in  order  to 
address  terrorist  threats  in  the  context  of  a  security 
and  counter-terrorism  cooperative  approach 
that 
contributes  to  developing  an  integrated  strategy  and 
implementation  plan  related  to  confidence-building 
measures in the area of counter-terrorism.
The United Arab Emirates is eager to help the Afghan 
people  to  achieve  their  vision  of  peace,  stability  and 
prosperity.  We  are  therefore  committed  to  supporting 
the Government of Afghanistan and its efforts to pursue 
large-scale  economic,  social  and  political  reforms, 
especially by enhancing the role of women and youth 
in Afghanistan to achieve development and strengthen 
Afghan society’s capacity to undertake those reforms.
The efforts of the United Arab Emirates to achieve 
development and stability in Afghanistan take the form 
of  humanitarian  and  development  initiatives.  Emirati 
assistance between 2012 and 2017 totalled $433 million. 
That assistance was used mainly for education, health 
care and women’s empowerment. In the presence of the 
Afghan President, a housing project was also launched 
18-41573
13/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
in Kabul early this year at a cost of 710 million Emirati 
dirham.  The  United  Arab  Emirates  has  consistently 
provided  financial  assistance  for  the  rebuilding  of 
schools, medical facilities and roads, and for ensuring 
relief aid for those affected by disasters.
Based on our policy of respect for the nationals of 
countries afflicted by wars or disasters, my country’s 
Government decided in June to grant the nationals of 
such  countries  one-year  renewable  residency  while 
they  are  unable  to  return  home.  That  demonstrates 
our solidarity with those people. We also support their 
living conditions so that they will eventually be able to 
go back to their countries. The United Arab Emirates 
continues  to  urge  neighbouring  countries  hosting 
Afghan nationals not to exploit them in regional issues 
and conflicts that have nothing to do with them.
In  conclusion,  The  United  Arab  Emirates  enjoys 
strong relations with the people of Afghanistan, bound 
by  history,  traditions  and  common  culture.  We  will 
continue  to  provide  the  necessary  assistance  to  the 
Afghan  people  out  of  our  human  and  Islamic  duty 
through bilateral or multilateral cooperation.
Mr.  Cooreman  (Belgium):  Like  others,  I  would 
like  to  thank  all  delegations  that  participated  in  the 
consultations on draft resolution A/73/L.44, in particular 
my Afghan and German colleagues for having so ably 
facilitated the negotiations. We are proud to co-sponsor 
the draft resolution and look forward to its adoption.
Belgium  associates  itself  fully  with  the  statement 
of the European Union.
Afghanistan  has  made  considerable  political, 
security, economic and development progress over the 
past decade. The draft resolution before us highlights 
many  of  those  advances,  for  which  the  Government 
of  Afghanistan  and  the  Afghan  people  deserve  much 
credit.  But  the  gains  made  are  fragile  and  major 
challenges remain. I would like to stress three points.
First,  Afghanistan  has  had  a  momentous  year, 
and  an  even  more  momentous  year  lies  ahead  of 
us.  Belgium  congratulates  the  Afghan  authorities 
on  the  parliamentary  elections  held  on  20  October, 
which  marked  another  important  step  towards  the 
consolidation  of  democracy  in  the  country.  At  the 
same time, it is important to draw lessons from these 
elections.  The  Afghan  Government  and  institutions 
owe  it  to  the  brave  and  courageous  Afghan  citizens 
to  hold  orderly,  inclusive  and  credible  presidential 
elections  in  2019.  The  election  commissioners  must 
retain  their  independence  and  carry  out  their  crucial 
mandate  autonomously,  building  on  the  experience 
they have acquired. Together with the serious security 
threat,  logistical  and  technical  difficulties  must  also 
be addressed.
The  heinous  attacks  against  schools  and  medical 
facilities  during  the  run-up  to  the  elections  further 
reminded  us  of  the  importance  of  fully  respecting 
international humanitarian law. In that regard, Belgium 
remains  deeply  concerned  about  the  high  number  of 
civilian casualties and calls on all parties to protect the 
civilian population, especially women and children.
The  momentous  year  ahead  also  applies  to  my 
second point, concerning the peace process. The draft 
resolution justly stresses the importance of an Afghan-
led and Afghan-owned peace process. The international 
community must be united in supporting those national 
efforts.  There  are  different  processes  aiming  to  build 
peace  in  Afghanistan,  but  it  remains  essential  for  the 
international  community  to  ensure  that  all  efforts 
reinforce  each  other  in  a  streamlined  process.  Only 
the  Kabul  Process  can  act  as  a  central  framework  in 
that  respect.  Belgium  calls  on  the  Taliban  leadership 
to  respond  to  President  Ghani’s  unprecedented  peace 
offer and engage in direct peace talks. The impatience 
of  the  Afghan  people  for  peace  is  ever  clearer.  The 
international community must heed its call and support 
the process by acting in unison. That will also require 
continued support from donors.
Thirdly,  I  want  to  add  Belgium’s  voice  to  the 
choir of global support for Afghanistan. I believe that 
today  is  about  coming  together  and  uniting  behind 
our  support  for  progress,  sustainable  peace  and 
development. That is the fundamental value of the draft 
resolution we will adopt today, and it was also visible 
at the Geneva Ministerial Conference last week, where 
we  had  an  open  and  constructive  dialogue  with  the 
Afghan Government and the international community 
confirmed  its  continuing  support  to  the  necessary 
reform  and  modernization  of  Afghanistan,  including 
the strengthening of the rule of law.
Belgium is a steadfast ally of Afghanistan through 
our  membership  of  the  European  Union  and  NATO. 
Both entities have longstanding cooperation agreements 
with Afghanistan, to which Belgium fully subscribes. 
Earlier this week, the Belgian Government decided to 
substantially  increase  its  contribution  to  the  NATO 
14/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
Resolute Support Mission and to help train the Afghan 
national army. We are also supporting the humanitarian 
response  to  the  drought  through  our  contributions  to 
the  United  Nations  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund.  Belgium  will  substantially  increase  its  support 
to  the  Fund  over  the  next  two  years,  in  line  with  our 
commitment to humanitarian principles.
took 
(Namibia),  Vice-President, 
Mr.  Gertze 
the Chair.
I am also proud to share a new Belgian contribution 
to  the  Afghanistan  country  office  of  UN-Women  in 
support of its programme to help with the implementation 
of  the  national  action  plan  on  women  and  peace  and 
security. Belgium attaches great importance to women’s 
rights  and  women’s  empowerment.  We  welcome  the 
strong  emphasis  the  draft  resolution  places  on  those 
themes. We encourage the Government of Afghanistan 
to  redouble  efforts  towards  greater  participation  by 
women in public institutions.
I  also  want  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the 
important  work  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan. Belgium will continue to work 
with the United Nations and regional and international 
partners to support the efforts of the Afghan authorities 
and people to achieve peace and prosperity.
Let  me  conclude  by  paying  my  respects  to  the 
victims  of  the  violence  in  Afghanistan  and  paying 
tribute to the resilience of the Afghan people and the 
Afghan National Defence and Security Forces. The year 
2018 holds the terrible record of being the most deadly 
year  for  civilians  to  date.  Ten  thousand  lives  have 
been lost sinc 2001, including those of many children. 
Having served in Afghanistan myself, that suffering is 
close to my heart. But peace is possible in Afghanistan, 
and Belgium will maintain its support not only for an 
Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  peace  settlement  but 
also for the journey after such a settlement. That is why 
we are here today.
Ms.  Boucher  (Canada):  I  would  like  to  sincerely 
thank  Germany  for  the  continuing  engagement  and 
leadership  it  has  demonstrated  in  preparing  this 
year’s draft resolution on the situation in Afghanistan 
(A/73/L.44). I would also like to express my appreciation 
to the Permanent Representative of Afghanistan to the 
United  Nations  for  his  thoughtful  statement  outlining 
not  only  the  important  challenges  facing  his  country 
but also its real potential.
As  he  has  shown,  now  more  than  ever  the 
international  community  must  stand  side-by-side 
with  Afghanistan  as  it  pursues  its  efforts  to  create  a 
sustainable future and a country that is well-governed, 
respects  human  rights  and  is  in  control  of  its  own 
destiny. In that regard, I want to highlight the important 
role  of  Afghanistan’s  neighbours  in  supporting  peace 
efforts and improving interconnectivity and promoting 
economic development opportunities with Afghanistan.
The draft resolution before us today demonstrates 
the 
importance  of 
international  commitment  and 
collaboration.  It  also  emphasizes  the  leadership  role 
of  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  its  people  in 
building a brighter future. That is why we are proud to 
co-sponsor this draft resolution, the precursors of which 
the Assembly has traditionally adopted by consensus.
support. 
It 
The  recent  Geneva  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Afghanistan provided further testament of the world’s 
continuing 
successfully  highlighted 
the  solidarity  of  the  international  community  with 
the  Afghan  people  and  the  Afghan  Government  in 
their  efforts  to  bring  peace  and  prosperity  to  their 
country. We were also pleased to learn of the Afghan 
Government’s 
to  ensuring 
progress on development and reform, which are crucial 
building  blocks  to  enable  stability  and  prosperity  for 
the country.
(spoke in French)
renewed  commitment 
Canada  is  proud  of  its  longstanding  security 
commitment to Afghanistan. We are proud of our support 
for the Afghan peace and reconciliation process. We are 
also proud of the significant efforts we have made for 
Afghan women and girls. That sense of pride is rooted 
in our belief that, by helping Afghanistan build a more 
stable,  secure  and  democratic  country  that  respects 
human  rights,  especially  those  of  Afghan  women  and 
girls, not only are we contributing to the development 
of the Afghan people, but also helping to create a safer 
and more prosperous world.
(spoke in English)
Afghanistan  recently  went  through  an  important 
democratic process with the October 2018 parliamentary 
elections. I commend the bravery of the Afghan people 
who, defying intimidation and threats of violence, went 
to the polls to cast their votes. I also want to recognize 
the  courage  of  the  Afghan  electoral  officials  and 
security-sector personnel supporting the elections. We 
18-41573
15/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
that 
lessons 
We  hope 
learned  from 
now look forward to free and fair presidential elections 
in  Afghanistan  in  2019.  That  will  be  another  major 
milestone for the country.
the 
the 
October  2018  parliamentary  elections  can  be  applied 
in  2019.  In  particular,  Canada  will  continue  to  work 
together with its Afghan and international partners to 
ensure  the  meaningful  participation  of  all  Afghans, 
particularly  Afghan  women,  in  the  electoral  process. 
Canada supports an inclusive Afghan-led and Afghan-
owned  peace  process  in  which  Afghan  women  play  a 
meaningful leadership role. We know that sustainable 
peace  and  security  cannot  be  achieved  without  the 
active and substantive participation of all members of 
society, including women and girls.
Canada supports this draft resolution, and we stand 
with the Afghan people as they strive for a more secure, 
prosperous and peaceful future.
Mr. Al Habib (Islamic Republic of Iran): To recover 
from decades of insecurity and instability, Afghanistan 
needs  strong  and  sustained  international  support. 
In  that  context,  we  underline  the  importance  of  the 
recent Geneva Ministerial Conference on Afghanistan. 
It  demonstrated 
community’s 
unwavering  support  for,  and  strong  solidarity  with, 
the people and the Government of Afghanistan in their 
endeavour to achieve peace, stability and prosperity.
international 
the 
We  have  witnessed  a  number  of  promising 
developments  in  Afghanistan  this  year.  The  holding 
of  the  parliamentary  elections,  despite  all  security 
threats and plots, was a positive development. Indeed, it 
further consolidates the foundations of democracy and 
the rule of law in the country. We express our sincere 
congratulations  to  the  people  and  the  Government 
of  Afghanistan  for  that  achievement.  It  must  be 
complemented  by  the  upcoming  presidential  elections 
in  April  2019.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  stands 
ready to extend all possible assistance to the brotherly 
country of Afghanistan to hold that election in a free 
and fair manner.
Moscow formats attest to that momentum, which must 
be seized.
The  international  community  should  facilitate 
intra-Afghan dialogue by helping to bring the Taliban 
to the negotiating table for inclusive and comprehensive 
talks  with  the  Government.  Genuine  and  strong 
international support as well as domestic and regional 
inclusion will be key to success.
Moreover, if they are to lead to a durable solution, 
such  efforts  must  be  inclusive  and  based  on  existing 
political  foundations,  such  as  the  Constitution.  More 
important, they should take into account the underlying 
causes  of  instability  and  insecurity  in  the  country 
over  the  past  four  decades.  One  of  those  causes  has 
been the presence of foreign forces, which have never 
brought stability to Afghanistan or our region; rather, 
historically, they have provided a recruiting ground for 
extremists. That is why we have never believed that such 
forces contribute to Afghanistan’s peace and stability.
Our  support  to  the  annual  General  Assembly 
resolution on the situation in Afghanistan reflects our 
genuine and general support for a neighbouring country 
and should not be misinterpreted as according any sort 
of  acknowledgement  to,  or  support  for,  the  continued 
presence or activities of foreign forces in that country. 
On  the  contrary,  in  our  view,  the  best  contribution 
that  foreign  forces  could  make  towards  peace  and 
stability  in  Afghanistan  would  be  to  withdraw.  We 
therefore  continue  to  call  strongly  for  a  time-bound 
and responsible withdrawal of all foreign forces from 
Afghanistan, regardless of their mandate or structure.
foreign 
Instead  of  deploying 
forces,  every 
effort  should  be  made  to  support  and  strengthen 
Afghanistan’s military and security forces. That is one 
of  the  main  requirements  for  the  long-term  stability 
of  Afghanistan,  and  should  therefore  be  pursued  as  a 
high priority. It is essential in particular for combating 
terrorist groups, such as Da’esh, whose introduction into 
Afghanistan has led to more bloodshed and dangerous 
sectarian tendencies.
Recent  developments  in  Afghanistan  include  the 
renewed efforts for peace and reconciliation. As it stands, 
there is a strong national, regional and global consensus 
that  there  is  no  military  solution  in  the  country.  The 
time  is  therefore  ripe  for  national  reconciliation  and 
an  inclusive  political  solution  in  Afghanistan.  That 
should  be  owned  and  led  by  the  Afghan  Government 
and  people.  The  complementary  Kabul,  Tashkent  and 
We  have  stated  time  and  again  that  no  one  has 
gained  from  introducing  and  supporting  Da’esh  and 
other terrorists in Syria and Iraq. No one will gain from 
introducing  them  in  Afghanistan  and  Central  Asia. 
This  alarming  and  horrific  trend  needs  to  be  stopped 
before  it  reaches  catastrophic  proportions.  One  of  the 
main  factors  in  that  regard  should  be  a  two-pronged 
strategy  to  fight  both  drug-trafficking  and  terrorism 
16/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
simultaneously.  That  is  crucial,  since  terrorism  and 
drug trafficking have historically always been mutually 
reinforcing in Afghanistan.
At  the  same  time,  to  fight  the  drug  menace,  we 
need a comprehensive strategy, which must include the 
economic development of Afghanistan’s rich resources. 
To  that  end,  the  international  community  should 
continue  to  support  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  people 
and  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  to  make  optimal 
use of its existing economic opportunities.
As  a  brotherly  country, 
Iran  has  offered 
unprecedented  support  to  the  Afghan  people  over  the 
past  40  years,  including  by  hosting  almost  4  million 
Afghan refugees. We are ready to continue to help our 
Afghan brothers and sisters in their quest for peace and 
cooperation with all, based on our shared objectives.
To 
the 
support 
sustainable 
socioeconomic 
development of Afghanistan, efforts are under way in 
my country to ensure that contributions are provided in 
a sustained and institutionalized manner. Connectivity 
is  a  vital  element  in  that  regard,  and  Iran’s  sea  and 
rail 
including  Chabahar,  are  essential  for 
Afghanistan’s  development.  Taking  into  account  the 
unlawful  unilateral  sanctions  against  Iran,  we  would 
like  to  stress  that  any  attempt  to  disrupt  this  vital 
project will only play into the hands of those who do 
not want peace and progress for Afghanistan.
links, 
We  support  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  and  underline 
the  need  for  a  strong  partnership  between  United 
Nations  agencies  and  that  country.  We  highlight  the 
importance  of  the  adoption  of  the  annual  General 
Assembly  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan. 
As  it  represents  the  international  community’s  strong 
support  for  Afghanistan,  the  resolution  should  be 
balanced,  reflect  the  current  situation  on  the  ground 
and include the concerns of all. That is vital to ensuring 
that its content enjoys the unambiguous support of all 
Member States.
I would like to conclude by reaffirming the resolve of 
the people and the Government of the Islamic Republic 
of Iran to continue their support to the fraternal people 
and the Government of Afghanistan.
Mr.  Islam 
(Bangladesh):  The  delegation  of 
Bangladesh wishes to thank the Secretary-General for 
his comprehensive report on Afghanistan (A/73/374).
by 
remains 
encouraged 
Bangladesh 
the 
international  community’s  commitment  of  constant 
support for sustained peace and stability in Afghanistan. 
The  Security  Council’s  visit  to  the  country  from 
13 to 15 January was an affirmation of the international 
community’s continued support for a peaceful, secure, 
stable and prosperous Afghanistan.
We  followed  with  interest  the  Geneva  Ministerial 
Conference  on  Afghanistan  held  on  27  and 
28 November, at which the Government of Afghanistan 
reaffirmed  its  commitment  to  reform,  democratic 
processes  and  development  for  the  Afghan  people. 
Bangladesh  welcomes  the  joint  communiqué  and  the 
Geneva  Mutual  Accountability  Framework  agreed  in 
Geneva. We underscore the primacy of an Afghan-led 
and  Afghan-owned  process,  supported  by  enhanced 
regional  and  international  cooperation,  for  lasting 
peace and stability in the country.
Bangladesh  welcomes  the  achievements  of  the 
National Unity Government in the political, governance, 
economic and social spheres. We commend initiatives 
to  promote  the  enhanced  participation  of  women 
and  young  people  in  addressing  peace,  security  and 
development issues.
We  congratulate  the  Afghan  Government  and 
people on the parliamentary elections held in October, 
in  defiance  of  terrorist  threats  and  attacks  in  various 
parts of the country. We, along with the international 
community,  look  forward  to  the  holding  of  the 
presidential elections scheduled for April 2019.
Bangladesh  attaches  importance  to  demonstrable 
efforts  by  the  United  Nations  to  promote  peace  and 
security, development and human rights in Afghanistan. 
We express our support for the sustained engagement of 
the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special  Representative 
for  Afghanistan.  We  appreciate  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan 
pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution  2405  (2018). 
Bangladesh  wishes  to  see  the  safe,  voluntary  and 
dignified return of Afghan refugees and encourages the 
continued implementation of the resolution, taking into 
consideration the realities on the ground.
Bangladesh  unequivocally  condemns  all  terrorist 
attacks  in  Afghanistan  and  expresses  its  steadfast 
solidarity  with  its  Government  and  people.  We  share 
concerns  at  the  presence  of  terrorist  groups  aiming 
to  spread  and  consolidate  their  network  across  the 
region and beyond. We remain particularly alert to the 
18-41573
17/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
reported presence of foreign terrorist fighters and the 
involvement of terrorist groups in narcotics cultivation 
and  trafficking.  Bangladesh  acknowledges  the  valiant 
role  played  by  the  Afghan  National  Defence  and 
Security Forces in the face of such risks and urges the 
international community to maintain support for their 
capacity-building efforts. We stand ready to cooperate 
with the relevant Afghan authorities to share information 
and  experience,  including  under  relevant  regional 
arrangements.  As  a  matter  of  principle,  Bangladesh 
remains committed not to allow its territory to be use 
for terrorist or otherwise hostile activities against any 
country, including those in our region.
the 
Under 
leadership  of  Honourable  Prime 
Minister  Sheikh  Hasina,  Bangladesh  continues  to 
attach the highest priority to further strengthening and 
consolidating bilateral relations with its neighbours in 
South Asia. Considering that development in education, 
health  and  agriculture  is  vital  in  realizing  peace,  we 
are  willing  to  share  our  development  experiences 
with  Afghanistan  in  various  areas,  namely,  women’s 
empowerment,  non-formal  education,  community 
health  care,  water  and  sanitation,  human  resources 
development, 
reform  and  social 
and  humanitarian  programmes.  We  have  offered  to 
provide  training  to  help  Afghan  professionals  and 
officials  develop  the  necessary  skills  in  areas  such 
as  the  financial,  judicial  and  administrative  sectors, 
disaster  management,  agricultural  extension  and 
youth development.
judicial  system 
frameworks  such  as 
Bangladesh and Afghanistan are currently working 
to  further  their  existing  bilateral  relations  through 
institutional 
foreign  office 
consultations,  trade  agreements,  cultural  exchanges, 
visa waivers for Government officials and air services 
agreements.  Bangladesh  also  offers  scholarships  to 
students from Afghanistan to study medicine and other 
higher degree subjects.
Since  we  believe  in  the  potential  of  regional 
connectivity  as  the  key  for  ensuring  growth  and 
eliminating  poverty,  we  feel  encouraged  by  various 
initiatives  of  countries  in  the  region  to  unlock  the 
trade  and  transit  potential  that  Afghanistan  offers  as 
a  connectivity  hub.  Drawing  on  Bangladesh’s  recent 
initiatives  at  fostering  subregional  connectivity,  we 
look forward to broadening this template to enter into 
beneficial  regional  connectivity  arrangements  with 
other South and Central Asian countries.
largest 
organization 
non-governmental 
In 2002, Building Resources Across Communities, 
the 
in 
Bangladesh,  began  its  first  international  operation  in 
Afghanistan. It has since continued to play a significant 
role  by  providing  secondary,  higher  secondary, 
technical  and  vocational  education  and  community 
health  services,  working  with  local  authorities  to 
build  rural  infrastructure  and  helping  to  implement 
social-development  projects  in  many  provinces  and 
hard-to-reach communities. That development approach 
improves  participation,  raises  awareness  of  gender 
equality and child rights and encourages ownership by 
the community.
We stress the importance of maintaining the unity 
of purpose of Member States in contributing to lasting 
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Afghanistan. 
The  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Afghan  people  must 
take  precedence  over  external  considerations.  The 
draft resolution before us should reflect our collective 
commitment to that effect, and we thank the German 
delegation for facilitating its preparation.
Mr.  Camp  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United  States  welcomes  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44, 
on  Afghanistan,  which  we  were  happy  to  co-sponsor. 
My country seeks an inclusive peace that will benefit 
all Afghan men and women. We seek a peace in which 
Afghanistan  plays  its  rightful  and  obligatory  role, 
contributing to international security and ensuring that 
its  territory  is  no  longer  exploited  by  terrorists.  And 
we seek a peace that accelerates economic growth and 
prosperity for Afghanistan and its neighbours.
to 
invitation 
the  Taliban 
There  are  encouraging  signs:  the  National  Unity 
Government’s 
to  enter 
peace  talks  without  preconditions;  the  Government’s 
establishment  of  an  action  plan  and  road  map  and 
appointment of an inclusive negotiating team; and the 
Eid  al-Fitr  ceasefire,  the  first  of  its  kind  in  17  years, 
although  followed  by  the  Taliban’s  disappointing 
failure to accept a second ceasefire during Eid al-Adha. 
A Taliban commitment to a peaceful outcome is long 
overdue. We call on the Taliban to commit to a ceasefire 
and appoint an authoritative negotiating team.
For our part, the United States continues its support 
for  an  Afghan-led  and  Afghan-owned  process.  Peace 
in Afghanistan is possible, and we must all seize this 
opportunity. Today we reaffirm our commitment to the 
Afghan people and welcome the progress that has been 
made and will be made in the future.
18/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
Mr. Allen (United Kingdom): The United Kingdom 
urges the General Assembly to provide its full support 
to  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  and  to  the  draft 
resolution  before  us  (A/73/L.44).  We  commend  the 
efforts of our German colleagues as penholders on the 
draft  resolution,  which  we  believe  should  command 
broad  agreement  and  consensus  as  in  previous  years. 
The  United  Kingdom  remains  committed  in  our 
support  for  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  along 
with  the  international  community,  as  demonstrated  at 
the  Geneva  Ministerial  Conference  on  Afghanistan 
last week.
The draft resolution recognizes the importance of 
an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned political process, for 
the benefit of the people of Afghanistan. We agree with 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan  that  that  is  the  only 
way to deliver a just and lasting peace, and believe that 
all present today should give it their full support.
The  bravery  and  determination  of  the  Afghan 
people in participating in the parliamentary elections in 
October confirm the demand for a political environment 
in which all citizens have an equal opportunity to have 
their say on the future of their country. The elections 
also demonstrated yet again the resilience, tenacity and 
courage of the people of Afghanistan. We welcome the 
inclusion in the draft resolution of language that pays 
tribute to those who defied threats and intimidation to 
exercise their democratic rights.
Nevertheless, a number of technical and logistical 
problems arose in the elections that are of concern. It is 
vital  that  Afghanistan’s  electoral  management  bodies 
learn from the experience and implement reforms ahead 
of next year’s presidential elections to ensure that such 
problems do not reoccur.
continues 
to  develop 
As  Afghanistan 
its 
institutions,  we  welcome  the  importance  placed  by 
the  draft  resolution  on  the  successful  efforts  of  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  to  deliver  on  its  reform 
agenda.  As  the  international  community  discussed  in 
Geneva,  there  have  been  notable  successes,  including 
on  fiscal  sustainability,  improved  budgeting  and  the 
progress  this  year  against  the  ease-of-doing-business 
indicators. That will all help lead Afghanistan towards a 
collective vision of self-reliance. However, it is vital for 
the pace of reform to accelerate and continue through 
the upcoming election period.
For  peace  to  be  sustainable,  it  must  be  inclusive. 
As such, we are extremely encouraged by the multiple 
references  to  the  protection  and  empowerment  of 
women and girls in the draft resolution. In particular, 
we  welcome  the  inclusion  of  paragraph  35,  which 
commends the Government of Afghanistan on its work 
towards  ensuring  the  full  and  equal  participation  of 
women in all spheres of life in Afghanistan. That vital 
work ranges from the implementation of Afghanistan’s 
2015  national  action  plan  on  women  and  peace  and 
security  to  the  representation  of  women  on  the  High 
Peace  Council  and,  most  recently,  to  the  inclusion  of 
women on President Ghani’s proposed negotiating team 
for peace talks.
In conclusion, we urge that the Assembly give its 
full support to the draft resolution and its endorsement 
of the importance of respect for human rights and of a 
political settlement to end the violence in Afghanistan.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. We shall now proceed 
to consider draft resolution A/73/L.44.
Before giving the floor to delegations that wish to 
speak in explanation of vote before the voting, I would 
like to remind delegations that explanations are limited 
to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations from 
their seats. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Russian Federation.
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  attaches  particular 
importance to the situation in Afghanistan and to the 
adoption by the General Assembly of draft resolution 
A/73/L.44,  whose  text  must  be  based  on  a  thorough 
analysis,  take  into  account  the  current  realities  and 
reflect  collective  approaches  by  the  international 
community to find effective and lasting solutions to the 
situation in Afghanistan.
Instead of that, for the first time in some years, the 
consultations on the draft text ignored not just regional 
dynamics  but  also  a  number  of  principled  Russian 
concerns that it would have been no trouble to consider. 
Given the lack of consensus, we propose that the draft 
resolution  be  put  to  a  vote,  since  we  cannot  support 
it. The text has a great deal to say about the progress 
that has been made in normalizing the situation in the 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, when the real situation 
in the country is actually quite different, as the Security 
Council mission to Kabul in particular confirmed. We 
have  seen  the  situation  deteriorate  year  after  year, 
18-41573
19/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
and frankly we have a host of questions about who is 
responsible  for  the  current  situation  in  Afghanistan. 
We still have not received any objective reports on the 
concrete  outcomes  of  the  international  coalition’s  17-
year battle against terrorism and drug trafficking. It is 
regrettable that during the work on the draft resolution 
a  number  of  delegations  simply  ignored  the  objective 
reality  of  the  growing  threat  that  the  Islamic  State  in 
Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL)  poses  to  security  not  just 
in Afghanistan but its neighbours, including States in 
Central Asia, despite the fact that the presence of ISIL’s 
fighters is a harsh reality that must not be downplayed 
or merely ignored.
focused  negotiations 
important  platform 
to  advance 
We were disappointed by a number of delegations’ 
unwillingness  to  take  objective  account  of  the  role 
and  outcomes  of  the  Moscow  format  consultations, 
for 
which  have  become  an 
launching 
the 
national  reconciliation  process.  Among  other  things, 
on  9  November  an  important  meeting  took  place  in 
Moscow  between  representatives  of  Kabul  and  the 
Taliban. In our view, that represents an unwillingness 
to  genuinely  help  shift  the  efforts  to  mobilize  the 
intra-Afghan  dialogue  to  a  practical  level.  We  firmly 
believe that our common task, in agreeing on the kind of 
texts dealing with regional crises such as the conflict in 
Afghanistan, should first and foremost be to avoid gaps 
between  United  Nations  decisions  and  the  realities  of 
a region. This unwillingness to reflect the real picture 
will lead to a dead end that will not only not promote 
a  settlement  but  will  undermine  confidence  in  the 
General Assembly’s decisions. For future consultations 
on  draft  resolutions,  we  would  like  to  once  again  ask 
penholders to take objective account of the principled 
comments  and  concerns  of  all  delegations,  not  just 
specific countries.
In  conclusion,  we  should  emphasize  that  the 
Russian  delegation  has  actively  and  consistently 
supported the Afghan people’s desire for lasting peace 
in  their  country.  Russia  and  Afghanistan  are  bound 
by  time-tested  friendly  relations  that  correspond  to 
our  countries’  national  interests  and  promote  stable, 
multifaceted development in the whole region and the 
world in general.
We greatly appreciate the heroism and courage of 
Afghanistan’s armed forces and pay due tribute to all 
who  have  died  fighting  terrorist  threats.  However,  it 
will be impossible to stabilize Afghanistan and resolve 
its  problems  without  a  comprehensive  approach  on 
the part of the international community. We are ready 
to  continue  to  work  to  improve  the  coordination  of 
all  States’  action  in  the  interests  of  ensuring  peace 
in Afghanistan.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
Afghanistan on a point of order.
Mr.  Saikal  (Afghanistan):  I  take  the  floor  to 
explain  our  position  on  the  proposal  of  the  Russian 
delegation.  Our  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
deep  regret  at  the  Russian  delegation’s  request  for  a 
vote on this year’s draft resolution (A/73/L.44) on the 
situation in Afghanistan.
The  resolution  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
has  been  adopted  by  consensus  every  year  since  its 
inclusion  on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly.  In 
the  past  few  years  it  has  continued  to  garner  strong 
consensus support in the General Assembly, reflecting 
the international community’s commitment to assisting 
our  people  in  overcoming  decades  of  conflict  and 
achieving a durable peace and stability.
As  always,  the  negotiations  on  this  year’s  draft 
resolution were inclusive and ably led by the delegation 
of  Germany  as  facilitator.  During  the  course  of 
negotiations, delegations presented views and proposals 
that  were  carefully  considered  and  deliberated  on. 
The  various  stakeholders,  particularly  Afghanistan, 
demonstrated  a  great  degree  of  flexibility  in  order 
to  achieve  consensus  on  related  issues  that  conform 
to  the  needs  and  priorities  of  Afghanistan.As  late  as 
last night we did our best to reach out to our Russian 
colleagues.  The  main  objective  of  the  process  was  to 
maintain  the  essence  of  last  year’s  resolution  72/10 
while incorporating the many important developments 
that have transpired over the past year in Afghanistan. 
those 
developments,  while  reaffirming  the  international 
community’s 
support.  The  Russian 
delegation  expressed  concern  about  three  points.  The 
first  was  the  reference  in  the  draft  resolution  to  the 
Moscow  format  consultations,  the  second  was  about 
the threat posed by Da’esh and similar terrorist groups, 
and  the  third  was  the  reference  to  NATO’s  continued 
support role in Afghanistan in helping to enhance the 
capacity of the Afghan National Defence and Security 
Forces through commitments made at the Brussels and 
This  year’s  draft 
continued 
resolution 
reflects 
20/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
Warsaw  conferences.  I  will  touch  briefly  on  each  of 
those three points.
First, Afghanistan has been clear in welcoming all 
regional and international processes in support of our 
Afghan-owned  and  -led  peace  efforts.  However,  we 
have  taken  the  clear  position  that  all  such  initiatives 
should  serve  to  reinforce  the  centrality  of  Afghan 
ownership and leadership of our peace efforts aimed at 
bringing an end to the current conflict.
This  year’s  draft  resolution  includes  a  reference 
to the Moscow format consultations, based on agreed 
language  in  the  Geneva  communiqué  endorsed  a 
little  less  than  two  weeks  ago  in  the  presence  of  all 
delegations,  including  that  of  the  Russian  Federation. 
Along with a large group of countries, we were therefore 
not  able  to  agree  with  language  modifications  on  the 
Moscow format that deviated from the language agreed 
on  in  Geneva.  Moreover,  while  the  Moscow  meeting 
represented a development, it took place in a way that 
contradicted the principle of transparency, since four of 
the five Taliban members who travelled to Moscow did 
so without a travel-ban exemption from the Committee 
pusuant  to  resolutions  1267  (1999),  1989  (2011)  and 
2253  (2015),  concerning  ISIL  (Da’esh),  Al-Qaida 
and  associated 
individuals,  groups,  undertakings 
and entities.
Secondly, the Afghan National Defence and Security 
Forces are on the front line of the fight against various 
terrorist groups that have come from abroad, including 
Da’esh  and  its  affiliates.  The  progress  that  our  forces 
have  made  in  combating  such  groups,  particularly 
Da’esh, has reached new levels, and those groups have 
suffered heavy setbacks on the battlefield, resulting in 
a substantially diminished presence in various parts of 
the country, including the north. We therefore opted to 
retain agreed language from last year’s resolution that 
reflected the threat of Da’esh without exaggerating the 
reality of the situation on the ground.
Thirdly,  Afghanistan  is  engaged  with  various 
international  partners  for  security  and  stability, 
including NATO, which provides a significant portion 
of  security  support  and  training  for  the  Afghan 
National Defence and Security Forces. In that regard, 
various  paragraphs  of 
the  draft  resolution  were 
streamlined to produce a more focused text, including 
some references to NATO, at the proposal of a number 
of delegations, including the Russian Federation. Any 
additional  changes  would  therefore  not  be  acceptable 
to Afghanistan and our relevant international partners.
The  representative  of  the  Russian  Federation 
reminded  us  of  the  Security  Council’s  visit  to  Kabul 
in January, about 11 months ago, where I was present 
when  the  Russian  delegation,  seated  at  a  dining  table 
with  our  President,  pledged  to  improve  coordination 
and  consensus  among  the  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  with  a  focus  on  improving  security  and 
development  in  Afghanistan.  We  had  been  looking 
forward to seeing further cooperation with the Russian 
Federation reflected in the draft resolution.
We  once  again  express  our  regret  at  the  Russian 
Federation’s  request  for  a  vote,  which  suggests  an 
intention to play a non-constructive role with respect to 
the  international  community’s  consensus  and  support 
for Afghanistan. We therefore call on all Member States 
to vote in favour of the draft resolution, in keeping with 
the long-standing support of the General Assembly and 
the international community for a peaceful, stable and 
prosperous Afghanistan.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative of Germany on a point of order.
Mr.  Licharz  (Germany):  Germany  fully  aligns 
itself with the statement on a point of order made by the 
representative of Afghanistan, who very ably described 
the  process  of  preparing  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44, 
which  is  before  us  today,  and  the  substantive  points 
that  were  incorporated  during  that  long  and  inclusive 
process.  Without  repeating  his  points,  I  want  only 
to  reiterate  Germany’s  regret  about 
the  Russian 
Federation’s request that the draft resolution be put to a 
vote. We call on all Member States not only to support 
the  draft  resolution  but  in  doing  that  to  support  the 
Afghan people and Government.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
representative  of  the  Russian  Federation  on  a  point 
of order.
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  I  just  briefly  want  to  ascertain  the  point  of 
order  on  which  the  delegations  of  Afghanistan  and 
Germany  have  just  spoken.  The  Russian  delegation 
made  a  statement  explaining  our  vote  before  the 
voting  and  requesting  a  decision  on  that  vote.  There 
was no violation of the order of the meeting, which is 
why I assume that the delegations of Afghanistan and 
Germany were speaking in explanation of vote before 
18-41573
21/23
A/73/PV.46 
06/12/2018
the voting and not on a point of order. Would you please 
clarify that, Sir?
The Acting President: In response to the question 
from the delegation of the Russian Federation, I refer 
the Assembly to rule 88 of its rules of procedure, which 
states that the President shall not permit the proposer of 
a proposal to explain his vote on his own proposal. The 
delegations of Afghanistan and Germany utilized that 
rule in making their statements.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.44,  entitled  “The  situation 
in Afghanistan”.
I give the floor to the representative of the Russian 
Federation on a point of order.
Mr.  Nebenzia  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  You,  Sir,  referred  to  rule  88  of  the  General 
Assembly’s rules of procedure, which states that after 
the  President  has  announced  the  beginning  of  voting, 
no  representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except 
on  a  point  of  order.  As  I  understand  it,  you  had  not 
announced  the  beginning  of  the  voting,  and  we  made 
our  statement  explaining  our  vote  before  the  voting 
and asking for draft resolution A/73/L.44 to be put to a 
vote. It is therefore incorrect to say that the delegations 
of  Afghanistan  and  Germany  were  speaking  on  a 
point of order in accordance with rule 88 of the rules 
of  procedure.  Those  delegations  were  speaking  in 
explanation of vote before the voting, because the vote 
had not yet been announced.
The  Acting  President:  The  statement  of  the 
Russian Federation is noted and will be included in the 
record of the meeting.
The  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  take  action 
on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44,  entitled  “The  situation 
in Afghanistan”.
the 
representative  of 
I  give 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of the draft resolution, and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/73/L.44, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Albania,  Andorra, 
Austria, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, 
Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, 
Georgia,  Greece,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia, 
Ireland,  Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, Nepal, New Zealand, Norway, 
Pakistan,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
Romania,  San  Marino,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain, 
Switzerland, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Turkmenistan,  Ukraine  and 
United Arab Emirates.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.44.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, 
Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, 
Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa 
Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Estonia,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy, 
Japan,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia, 
Lebanon,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Malawi,  Maldives,  Malta,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, 
Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United 
Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and  Northern  Ireland,  United  States  of  America, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen
Against:
None
22/23 
18-41573
06/12/2018 
A/73/PV.46
Abstaining:
Libya, Russian Federation, Zimbabwe
Draft  resolution  A/73/L.44  was  adopted  by  124 
votes to none, with 3 abstentions (resolution 73/88).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the  resolution  just 
adopted, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
I now give the floor to the representative of China.
Mr.  Lie  Cheng  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
adoption  of  resolution  73/88,  on  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan, contributes to demonstrating the support 
of the international community for the people and the 
Government of Afghanistan and will help to encourage 
the  National  Unity  Government  to  make  continued 
efforts  to  promote  socioeconomic  development  and 
national  reconciliation.  It  will  also  contribute  to 
enhancing economic cooperation and interconnectivity 
in the region and helping Afghanistan to participate in 
the regional economic integration process.
China  is  not  fully  satisfied  with  parts  of  the  text 
of  the  resolution  just  adopted,  which,  on  a  number 
of  important  issues,  failed  to  maintain  the  consensus 
among  Member  States  that  had  been  reached  in  the 
past. During consultations on the draft resolution, the 
important  concerns  of  a  number  of  Member  States 
were  not  accommodated  and,  as  a  result,  a  recorded 
vote  was  requested.  China  would  like  to  express  its 
disappointment  in  that  regard.  Nevertheless,  on  the 
basis of its support for the early achievement of peace, 
stability and development in Afghanistan, China voted 
in favour of the resolution.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 40?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 12.20 p.m.
18-41573
23/23
