United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
14th plenary meeting
Saturday, 29 September 2018, 9 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.14
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now call on His 
Excellency Mr. Edgars Rinkēvičs, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Latvia.
Mr.  Rinkēvičs  (Latvia):  First  of  all,  I  wish  to 
congratulate  you,  Madam,  on  your  assuming  the 
position  of  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
current session and provide assurances of Latvia’s full 
support. I also express gratitude to Mr. Miroslav Lajčák 
for his active role as President of the General Assembly 
at its previous session.
I  address  the  Assembly  at  a  very  special time  for 
my country. This year, Latvia celebrates its centennial. 
A remarkable change occurred 100 years ago. The end 
of  the  First  World  War  and  the  collapse  of  empires 
resulted in the liberation of nations and brought about 
a  fundamental  revision  of  Europe’s  political  map.  A 
new  Europe  was  born,  which  promised  much  more 
than  just  self-determination,  freedom  and  democracy. 
The  peoples  of  Europe  expected  lasting  peace  and 
prosperity.  Those  objectives  were  pursued  both 
individually  and  collectively.  Peoples’  right  to  self-
determination  materialized  in  concrete  forms.  New 
nation States were born.
The  Paris  Peace  Conference  laid  the  foundations 
for  the  League  of  Nations,  which  was  the  first 
international organization whose principal mission was 
to maintain universal peace through the development of 
binding norms and multilateralism. Latvia also joined 
the  League  of  Nations,  firmly  establishing  its  status 
as  a  full-fledged  member  of  the  international  family. 
However, the weakness of the League of Nations was 
one  of  the  main  reasons  why  Latvia,  for  a  time,  lost 
its  independence.  The  history  of  both  the  Soviet  and 
Nazi occupations of Latvia and much of the European 
continent  is  a  harsh  reminder  of  what  happens  when 
serious  violations  of  international  law  are  tolerated. 
We  know  all  too  well  the  consequences  of  allowing 
countries  to  break  those  principles  with  impunity.  In 
Latvia’s case, it was a life under the occupation of Nazi 
and Communist regimes of terror and gross violations 
of human rights.
We  are  grateful  to  all  those  nations  that  for 
decades implemented policies of non-recognition of the 
occupation of the Republic of Latvia and stood by their 
principles. In accordance with international law, the State 
of Latvia continued to exist throughout the occupation 
period.  However, 
the 
official successor to the Soviet Union — still does not 
acknowledge  the  well-documented  facts  of  history.  I 
call on Russia to embrace the truth and clearly condemn 
the actions of the Soviet Union.
the  Russian  Federation  — 
Since the restoration of independence in 1991, Latvia 
has been advocating compliance with international law 
and  human  rights.  The  protection  of  those  principles 
was necessary throughout our transition to a democratic 
society, which was governed by the rule of law, and in 
building  Latvia’s  international  role.  Today,  Latvia  is 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-30190 (E)
*1830190*

A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
a  modern  and  proud  European  nation  and  an  active 
member of the world community.
The topic of this year’s debate invites us to focus 
on  the  very  heart  of  the  United  Nations.  The  Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  starts  with  the  words  “We  the 
peoples  of  the  United  Nations”,  thus  pointing  out  the 
Organization’s aim to represent the rights and interests 
of  every  human  being  on  the  planet.  The  United 
Nations  was  founded  not  only  to  save  succeeding 
generations from the scourge of war and reaffirm faith 
in  fundamental  human  rights  but  also  to  respect  the 
obligations of international law.
Human  rights,  including  women’s  and  children’s 
rights, are among the most fundamental values of the 
United  Nations.  The  Organization  must  be  capable 
of  defending  those  values  in  any  situation,  be  it 
the  bombing  of  civilians  in  Syria,  the  massacre  of 
Rohingyas  in  Myanmar,  the  persecution  of  Crimean 
Tatars by the Russian authorities or other human rights 
violations wherever they occur. This year, we mark 70 
years  since  the  adoption  of  the  Universal  Declaration 
of Human Rights. It remains the main global source of 
inspiration to continue working to ensure that all people 
may live with dignity and benefit from the blessings of 
freedom and equality.
Security and human rights go hand in hand. Security 
cannot  be  achieved  without  respect  for  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms.  The  freedom  of  the  press 
has been and continues to be vital to peace, justice and 
human rights for all. I therefore once again urge Russia 
to  release  the  illegally  detained  Ukrainian filmmaker
Oleg  Sentsov.  I  call  on  the  Myanmar  authorities  to 
free the two Reuters journalists Kyaw Soe Oo and Wa 
Lone. I also call on Russia to immediately release the 
other 64 Ukrainian political prisoners it has detained, 
including journalist Roman Sushchenko. I urge nations 
to adhere to their commitments and obligations under 
international  law  and  international  human  rights  law, 
especially with regard to the freedom of expression and 
freedom of assembly, which have notably deteriorated 
in the past year.
In  order  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations, efforts should be made to uphold the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
In  August,  the  world  lost  an  inspirational  leader  and 
a strong advocate for peace and human rights, former 
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  argued  that  we 
will  not  enjoy  security  without  development,  nor 
development  without  security,  and  we  will  not  enjoy 
either  without  respect  for  human  rights.  The  three 
pillars of the Charter are greater than the sum of their 
individual  parts.  Economic  progress  and  sustainable 
development are based on long-term stability, which in 
turn requires peace and security and respect for human 
rights.
The  United  Nations  must  be  able  to  change, 
undertake serious reforms and thereby respond to the 
demands  of  the  twenty-first  century  accordingly.  We 
need  a  relevant  and  efficient  United  Nations.  Latvia 
welcomes the reforms initiated by the Secretary-General 
in the three areas of peace and security, development 
and  management.  It  is  important  that  the  reforms  be 
implemented  swiftly.  This  is  a  unique  Organization 
with  a  heavy  responsibility.  The  authority  of  the 
Security Council in maintaining international peace and 
security  must  be  preserved.  Security  Council  reform 
is  long  overdue,  and  we  should  all  aim  to  strengthen 
the  efficiency  of  that  important  body.  However,  the 
stalemate  in  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must 
not  impede  progress  elsewhere.  The  reform  of  the 
United Nations must include serious improvements in 
the protection and promotion of human rights.
Achieving  sustainable  development  through  the 
implementation  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development cannot be complete without strengthening 
human  rights  around  the  world.  The  Human  Rights 
Council must be strong and effective and have the ability 
to  react  quickly  to  serious  human  rights  violations  in 
any part of the world. Latvia is actively engaged in the 
process of improving the effectiveness of the Council. 
I invite all countries to join that process with an open 
mind.
Latvia supports the Secretary-General’s vision and 
approach with regard to focusing on prevention at the 
United Nations. That is even more important given the 
increasingly  complex  global  security  challenges  that 
we  face.  Conflicts  and  crises  around  the  world  that 
could not be prevented drag on for years and decades, 
destroying human lives, holding back development and 
draining the resources of the United Nations.
The conflicts in Syria, Ukraine and Yemen continue 
to take a heavy toll on civilians. We must also not forget 
the protracted instability in Burundi and Afghanistan. 
The  mere  length  of  preventable  conflicts  undermines 
the credibility of international organizations, including 
the United Nations.
2/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
As  the  main  guarantor  of  international  peace 
and  security,  the  Security  Council  has  a  particular 
responsibility in preventing conflicts, acts of aggression 
and mass atrocities. The use of the veto to shield narrow 
national  interests  in  situations  of  mass  atrocities  is 
completely unacceptable.
Territorial integrity and sovereignty, as enshrined 
in  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, must be respected by all. The Russian 
Federation  must  stop  its  aggression  against  Ukraine. 
Together  with  the  international  community,  we  will 
maintain  a  non-recognition  policy  with  regard  to  the 
illegal  annexation  of  Crimea.  I  believe  that  one  day 
international  law  and  justice  will  prevail  and  that 
the  territorial  integrity  of  Ukraine,  as  well  as  that  of 
other  eastern  partners  of  the  European  Union,  will 
be  restored.  The  United  Nations,  along  with  relevant 
regional players, must remain involved and committed 
to  resolving  the  protracted  conflicts  in  Nagorno 
Karabakh,  Transnistria,  Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia. 
The  history  of  the  Baltic  States  is  proof  of  the  moral 
power of international law and justice. The international 
community  must  be  more  active  in  resolving  those 
issues.
No  nation  was  ever  secure  in  isolation.  Member 
States  therefore  have  a  responsibility  to  ensure  one 
another’s security. Clear consequences for aggressors, 
resolute  international  pressure  and  accountability  for 
violations  of  international  law  are  essential  for  the 
political  resolution  of  a  conflict.  Settlement  of  the 
protracted  conflicts  in  wider  Europe  remains  of  the 
utmost importance to the international community.
Attaining the Sustainable Development Goals is the 
ultimate  prevention  agenda.  They  address  the  drivers 
and root causes of instability and conflict. Investing in 
human  dignity,  eradicating  poverty,  fostering  climate 
resilience and promoting economic and social progress 
will  reduce  the  incidence  of  conflict,  instability  and 
despair.
for  human 
The  principles  of  good  governance,  democracy, 
respect 
rights,  gender  equality  and 
environmental sustainability therefore guide all Latvia’s 
activities  in  the  area  of  development  cooperation. 
Furthermore,  gender  equality  is  vital  to  achieving 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals.  It  is  an  essential 
precondition for inclusive sustainable development and 
for economic growth and prosperity.
At 
the 
the  beginning  of 
twentieth  century, 
combatants  accounted  for  90  per  cent  of  conflict-
related  casualties.  Today,  90  per  cent  of  casualties  in 
armed  conflicts  are  civilians.  Conventional  arms  kill 
approximately 500,000 people a year, of whom 70,000 
are killed in conflict zones. Those figures clearly prove 
that the international community must focus not only on 
weapons of mass destruction but also on conventional 
arms.
With that in mind, Latvia will assume the presidency 
of the Arms Trade Treaty next year and will spare no 
effort to promote its objectives. I call on all States to 
become parties to the Arms Trade Treaty, which would 
also  contribute  directly  to  the  attainment  of  the  2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
We must join efforts to strengthen the principle of 
multilateralism.  In  an  interdependent  and  globalized 
world,  we  can  address  and  resolve  global  problems 
only  through  multilateral  means.  In  that  regard,  the 
United Nations stands out as a good global governance 
instrument,  but  it  is  not  a  global  Government.  The 
ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  meet  the  challenges 
of  the  world  today  depends  heavily  on  the  decisions 
of Governments and on the support of populations for 
those decisions. With that in mind, I wish to emphasize 
that  the  future  of  multilateralism  will  depend  more 
on changes in the attitudes of Member States than on 
reforms of the United Nations system. However, as long 
as the fundamental characteristics of the international 
system  are  not  changed,  the  United  Nations  can  only 
strive for higher effectiveness and efficiency.
We should accept the United Nations for what it is. 
It is not perfect, yet it is a very necessary instrument 
for  the  maintenance  of  peace,  economic  development 
and  the  codification  of  international  law  for  a  more 
secure  world.  The  United  Nations  can  and  must  be  a 
significant global player, a community of nations that 
is proud of its values and committed to multilateralism 
and the principles of international law.
Member  States  must  support  our  Organization 
in  order  to  project  those  values  worldwide,  thereby 
affirming its unique role on the global stage. To achieve 
that purpose, the United Nations needs well-functioning 
norms,  efficient  institutions  and  a  clear  vision  of  its 
policies.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Rimbink  Pato,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea.
18-30190
3/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
Mr. Pato (Papua New Guinea): I am pleased today 
to address the General Assembly on behalf of my Prime 
Minister, His Excellency Mr. Peter Paire O’Neill, and 
the Government and the people of Papua New Guinea.
I  congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  and  the 
people of Ecuador on your election as the first woman 
leader  from  the  Latin  American  and  the  Caribbean 
region to preside over the General Assembly. You can 
count  on  Papua  New  Guinea  as  a  partner  committed 
to  supporting  your  work  during  your  presidency.  I 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  outgoing  President,  His 
Excellency Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, for his excellent work 
in  the  past  year.  It  is  also  important  to  commend  the 
leadership  of  the  Secretary-General  for  the  reform  of 
the United Nations and its systems, the United Nations 
being  an  organization  that  is  so  fundamental  to  the 
peace, prosperity and security of the world.
This  is  an  exciting  year  for  Papua  New  Guinea 
because,  throughout  2018,  we  are  hosting  the  Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  (APEC)  forum.  In  so 
doing, our country is emerging on the global stage as 
never before.
Located  in  the  Pacific  Ocean,  we  are  part  of  a 
vast blue continent of island nations linked by sea. We 
also border with South-East Asia and are within sight 
of Australia. We have more than 8 million people, the 
biggest economy and the largest land mass of the Pacific 
island countries. We are joining with our Pacific sisters 
and brothers in a mighty regional endeavour to protect 
the  ocean  and  its  bounty  and  to  bring  prosperity  to 
our peoples.
Nations near and far are learning that our country, 
Papua  New  Guinea,  is  a  great  treasury  of  riches.  We 
have  the  third-largest  rainforest  in  the  world,  after 
Brazil  and  the  Congo.  We  are  guardians  of  a  third  of 
the global supply of tuna, the fish that feeds the world. 
Our  land  is  home  to  vast  storehouses  of  gold,  silver, 
nickel, oil and gas.
We are one people forged together from more than 
1,000  tribes.  With  more  than  800  distinct  languages, 
we are the most linguistically diverse nation on Earth. 
Like all developing countries, we have issues to face, 
but we do not let them daunt us as we strive for progress 
and prosperity.
This year, we are taking a giant stride as we host 
the  Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  forum.  The 
APEC economies encompass 39 per cent of the world’s 
population and 48 per cent of the world’s trade. Among 
the participants in the forum are the United States, the 
People’s Republic of China, Japan and other significant 
economies.  APEC  itself  is,  in  many  ways,  a  regional 
example of attempts to achieve what States Members of 
the United Nations are working so hard to accomplish.
Many  issues  are  on  the  table  either  formally  or 
in  informal  meetings  on  the  sidelines,  namely,  first, 
prosperity  through  free  trade,  which  is  the  founding 
rationale  for 
the  APEC-plus  approach;  secondly, 
cleaning  up  and  protecting  the  natural  environment; 
thirdly,  inclusiveness,  so  that  none  of  our  precious 
human beings are left behind; fourthly, embracing the 
digital  economy;  and,  fifthly  and  very  importantly, 
gender equality.
International  trade  is  an  important  engine  for 
inclusive  economic  growth  and  poverty  eradication, 
as well as a critical source for financing development 
and  achieving  sustainable  development.  As  the  host 
of  APEC,  we  have  opportunities  like  never  before. 
It  is  the  largest  international  event  in  our  country’s 
history. We are well prepared for the leaders summit in 
mid-November. The world will see the stunning APEC 
House,  an  outstanding  architectural  creation  inspired 
by our local culture. We thank the APEC economies for 
their  material  and  organizational  support,  including, 
in  particular,  Australia,  Canada,  China,  Indonesia, 
Japan,  New  Zealand,  Singapore,  South  Korea,  the 
United  States  of  America  and  many  others  that  are 
too numerous to mention. To add to the Pacific island 
flavour of the event, we have invited all Pacific island 
leaders to come to our country during this time.
Through  APEC,  we  have  opportunities  to  attract 
trade and foreign direct investment. It will continue to 
provide us with access to knowledge and to a dialogue 
with APEC economic leaders, who will be in attendance. 
Such capacity-building support in our country will lead 
directly  to  business  growth  and  the  creation  of  more 
jobs for our people. However, given our small and open 
economy,  which  is  subject  to  external  forces,  we  join 
all  other  members  of  the  international  community  in 
promoting  respect  for  and  the  strengthening  of  the 
rules-based, international multilateral trading system.
Hosting  the  APEC  event  is  a  huge  challenge  for 
a  developing  country  such  as  ours,  and  people  can 
sometimes  paralyse  themselves  by  focusing  only  on 
their perceived shortfalls or problems. But we in Papua 
4/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
New  Guinea  decided  to  try  it.  That  perspective  also 
applies to our view of the United Nations and its work.
Of  course,  we  must  acknowledge  and  work  to 
eliminate  the  great  problems  confronting  us  today. 
However,  in  doing  so,  let  us  all  keep  our  eyes  on 
the  prize:  our  vision  of  peace,  security,  a  return  to  a 
pristine  environment  and  ongoing  prosperity.  The 
key  to  overcoming  the  varied  challenges  lies  within 
us  —  we  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations.  Let  us 
work on being united and being stronger together in a 
system  based  on  mutual  respect,  friendship,  dialogue 
and multilateralism. Unity, of course, is the answer. It 
is the greatest strength on the planet.
Two weeks ago, Papua New Guinea celebrated its 
forty-third anniversary of independence as an unbroken 
democracy.  We  continue  to  consolidate  our  economic 
and  structural  reforms,  supported  by  responsible 
monetary and fiscal policies aimed at having a balanced 
budget. With recovering oil and gas prices and several 
well-advanced new major energy and mining projects, 
we are optimistic about our future economic outlook.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
is  a  solid  pathway  that  holds  great  promise  for  the 
international  community.  The  choice  to  enjoy  its  full 
potential  lies  in  our  hands.  At  the  Pacific  regional 
level, earlier this month, in Nauru, our forum leaders 
reaffirmed  our  collective  commitment.  The  call  for 
collective  action  is  set  out  in  the  Boe  Declaration, 
a  copy  of  which  was  delivered  to  His  Excellency  the 
Secretary-General yesterday. At the national level, we 
recognize the importance of putting in place the basic 
building blocks needed to enable sustainable, inclusive 
and participatory development. Both Australia and New 
Zealand, which are our good friends, have eloquently 
addressed the General Assembly on issues facing our 
region  and  the  world  and  on  the  requirements  and 
obligations for collective action.
An  essential  part  of  our  development  challenge 
is  harnessing  the  vastly  untapped  potential  of  our 
increasing  population  of  young  people,  which  today 
constitutes  approximately  60  per  cent  of  our  total 
population. Creating employment opportunities in both 
the formal and the informal sectors is a key priority in 
our efforts to address the needs of young people in our 
country. We have hopes for the transformative nature 
of the digital economy, which is truly a game-changer.
In  addition,  one  of  our  greatest  challenges  is  to 
protect women and girls and to ensure that they have 
full  equality  in  our  society.  We  believe  that  women’s 
equality is a fundamental human right. We have a very 
long way to go in that area. However, we are determined 
to find ways to make progress towards achieving that 
objective, for the sake of women and girls themselves 
and for the good of the nation. In fact, our long-term 
advancement depends on making great strides in what 
we believe is a very crucial area.
We  are  working  hard  to  do  that  through  policies 
and laws, combating gender-based violence, providing 
business  opportunities  in  the  formal  and  informal 
sectors, such as microcredit schemes, and investing in 
our  girls’  and  women’s  education  at  all  levels  of  our 
education  system.  The  changes  are  noticeable  in  my 
country, as we have put an additional 1 million young 
people in schools, many of whom are girls. We of course 
express our gratitude for the support of our multilateral 
and  bilateral  development  partners,  including  the 
United  Nations  system,  in  assisting  us  in  more  ways 
than one in achieving our goals.
We  are  preparing  our  people  to  cope  with  the 
increasing dangers arising from climate change, which 
are very real for us. Earlier this month, as I have said, at 
the Pacific Island Forum leaders meeting, in Nauru, we 
reaffirmed our strong commitment to working together 
to combat the adverse impacts of climate change under 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, the Paris Agreement and other frameworks for 
the resilient development of the Pacific region. The Boe 
Declaration of the Pacific Island Forum leaders makes 
our  position  clear.  We  therefore  strongly  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s  climate  summit  to  be  held  in 
September 2019.
In  February,  Papua  New  Guinea  experienced  a 
tragic and unprecedented earthquake, the worst in our 
history. It hit five provinces, killed nearly 200 people 
and  displaced  nearly  600,000  others.  Many  others 
were injured and traumatized. Vital infrastructure was 
destroyed. The national economy slowed. Compounding 
our situation were two separate volcanic eruptions.
We  are  not  alone.  Accordingly,  we  sympathize 
with  other  countries,  such  as  Indonesia,  Japan,  the 
Philippines, China, the United States of America, the 
countries  of  the  Caribbean  and  others  that  have  been 
affected in recent times by months of natural disasters 
and  climate-change-induced  challenges.  We  express 
our  gratitude  to  our  bilateral  partners,  including  the 
United Nations system, Australia, New Zealand, China, 
18-30190
5/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
Japan and others, as well as the private sector and civil 
-society  groups,  which  stood  with  us  in  our  time  of 
need. We are now revamping our economy and disaster-
related plans to address similar events that may occur 
in the future.
We naturally welcome the efforts made to replenish 
the  financing  available  through  the  Green  Climate 
Fund  and  thank  the  contributors  for  their  generosity. 
Improved  and  timely  access  is  imperative,  especially 
for small island developing countries such as ours, in 
order to benefit from that important support to help us 
to  mitigate,  adapt  and  build  resilience  to  the  ravages 
of climate change and its adverse impacts and natural 
disasters. Again, this is a call for collective global action 
that all small island developing States will benefit from 
and seek accordingly.
notes 
the 
Our  Government 
international 
community’s  increasing  interest  in  the  imminent 
referendum  in  June  2019  in  Papua  New  Guinea’s 
Autonomous  Region  of  Bougainville  under 
the 
Bougainville Peace Agreement. We are fully committed 
to the Agreement. This year, we appointed the former 
Prime  Minister  of  Ireland,  Mr.  Bertie  Ahern,  to 
preside over the work of the Bougainville Referendum 
Commission.  We  are  eager  for  the  Commission  to 
begin  its  mandate  soon.  We  are  again  grateful  to 
our  multilateral  and  bilateral  development  partners, 
including the United Nations, for working together with 
us on this issue of national importance for my country. 
However,  we  want  to  emphasize  that  the  work  done 
through partnerships should in no way undermine the 
sovereignty of Papua New Guinea over its territory, in 
accordance with international law.
We welcome the easing of tensions on the Korean 
peninsula,  commend  the  efforts  made  by  all  parties 
involved, and further encourage peaceful dialogue. We 
support the moves to keep sanctions in place, not as a 
punishment but as a real incentive to get rid of nuclear 
weapons  and  fully  implement  all  Security  Council 
resolutions in order to bring prosperity to the people of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
Accordingly, we applaud and support the efforts of 
the President of the General Assembly to draw global 
attention to the dangers of weapons of mass destruction. 
For our part, we are working towards signing the Treaty 
on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  share  the  current 
status  of  the  refugees  and  migrants  on  our  Manus 
Island  with  the  General  Assembly.  The  processing 
centre  was  officially  closed  by  my  Government  on 
31 October 2017, following the decision of the Supreme 
Court in April 2016. We are therefore working closely 
with  Australia  in  resettling  qualified  asylum-seekers, 
including in the United States. Other migrants remain 
in  our  country,  each  of  whom  will  be  addressed  on  a 
case-by-case basis. That is our contribution, within the 
limit  of  our  means,  in  partnership  with  Australia,  to 
addressing  human  trafficking,  people-smuggling  and 
international crime.
As a maritime nation, Papua New Guinea considers 
the  oceans  agenda  to  be  of  great  importance,  as  it 
contributes  significantly  to  our  nation’s  well-being. 
We  are  working  to  ensure  equitable  returns  from  our 
marine  resources,  particularly  by  combating  illegal, 
unregulated  and  unreported  (IUU)  fishing  in  Papua 
New  Guinea’s  territorial  waters.  We  are  grateful  for 
the  close  cooperation  of  like-minded  countries  in  the 
World Trade Organization that are working to address 
harmful fisheries subsidies that foster IUU fishing. At 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  meeting,  under  our  “Blue 
Pacific  Continent”  theme,  we  have  agreed  to  secure 
the  region’s  maritime  boundaries,  work  to  eliminate 
marine litter and enhance maritime surveillance so as 
to deter illicit activities.
In  conclusion,  I  want  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  once  again  to  our  country  as  we  prepare  to 
host  the  APEC  leaders  summit  in  November.  As  the 
world  increasingly  turns  its  attention  to  the  Pacific 
Ocean,  we  are  witnessing  the  enhanced  interest  of  a 
range  of  countries,  such  as  Australia,  China,  France, 
New  Zealand,  the  United  Kingdom  and  the  United 
States.  As  one  of  the  nations  of  the  Blue  Pacific 
Continent, we welcome that interest. However, we urge 
everyone to play an appropriate role in accordance with 
the accepted rules of international order so that the blue 
Pacific Ocean will be a zone of cooperation, stability 
and security, and an environment of pristine beauty for 
future prosperity.
I would therefore like to conclude by expressing the 
fervent hope of all our peoples that the Pacific Ocean 
forever lives up to the meaning of its name — the ocean 
of peace.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Yousuf  bin  Alawi  bin  Abdallah,  Minister 
Responsible  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Sultanate 
of Oman.
6/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
Mr.  Abdallah  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  our  congratulations  to 
you,  Madam  President,  and  your  friendly  nation  on 
your election to preside over the General Assembly at 
its seventy-third session. I assure you, Madam, of the 
delegation  of  the  Sultanate  of  Oman’s  cooperation  as 
you guide the Assembly to success in this session.
We also express our appreciation to the President 
of the General Assembly at its seventy-second session, 
His Excellency Miroslav Lajčák, for the way in which 
he  steered  the  Assembly’s  work  and  for  the  decisions 
that  were  taken  under  his  leadership.  We  also  take 
this  opportunity  to  fully  commend  Secretary-General 
António Guterres for his efforts to strengthen the role 
of the Organization and reform its mechanisms in order 
to better achieve the purposes and principles set forth 
in the Charter of the United Nations.
The  work  of  the  United  Nations  must  focus  on 
addressing  challenges,  settling  international  disputes 
and  conflicts,  and  achieving  peace.  Given  that  my 
country believes that dialogue and negotiation are the 
best  means  to  resolve  differences,  we  emphasize  that 
the Sultanate of Oman will spare no effort in supporting 
initiatives that lead to peace, security and stability in 
the Middle East and throughout the world. We consider 
peace  to  be  the  main  building  block  for  stability  and 
development. Accordingly, we hope that Member States 
will  collaborate  in  ways  that  are  consistent  with  the 
principles of good-neighbourliness, respect for national 
sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of other States.
The  Palestinian  question  is  the  central  issue  in 
the  Middle  East.  The 
international  community’s 
cooperation  in  creating  an  environment  conducive 
to  the  parties  concerned  ending  the  conflict  is  an 
urgent strategic necessity. We believe that, despite the 
difficulties in the current situation and the impasse in 
the  dialogue,  an  environment  favourable  to  fruitful 
discussions between the Palestinian and Israeli parties 
that  might  lead  to  a  comprehensive  settlement  based 
on the two-State solution would be more welcome than 
ever, especially since the absence of a Palestinian State 
will only perpetuate violence and terrorism.
The  Sultanate  of  Oman  is  willing  to  make  every 
effort  to  restore  a  climate  of  optimism  so  that  a 
comprehensive agreement can be reached and a future of 
peaceful coexistence between the Palestinians and the 
Israelis  built.  The  creation  of  a  peaceful  environment 
between the Palestinian and Israeli parties is essential 
to  establishing  peace  in  the  Middle  East  region  as 
a whole.
We  also  call  on  the  countries  of  the  world, 
particularly  the  United  States  of  America  —  which 
plays an essential role in achieving peace and stability 
in the world — to consider all available opportunities 
to  support  peace  efforts  and  to  facilitate  the  work  of 
international  organizations.  We  must  not  allow  peace 
to be sacrificed.
The suffering of the Republic of Yemen can be seen 
in the tragic economic and humanitarian situation in the 
country, which stems from the collapse of infrastructure 
in  the  health,  education  and  economy  sectors  and  the 
loss  of  other  basic  services  that  affect  the  daily  lives 
of citizens in Yemen, as well as the spread of disease, 
inadequate medical treatment and a lack of medicines. 
That tragic situation demands that we all redouble our 
efforts to help Yemen.
The  international  community  must  implement  a 
project that would allow the Yemeni people in various 
provinces  to  gain  access  to  humanitarian  aid,  while 
facilitating  the  use  of  airports  and  seaports  to  that 
end. Indeed, the dire humanitarian situation in Yemen 
requires that such measures, at a minimum, be taken. 
Accordingly,  my  country  welcomes  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Arab  coalition  countries  to 
establish  a  humanitarian  medical  airlift  for  patients 
suffering  from  critical  conditions  so  that  they  can 
receive  proper  medical  treatment.  Those  scheduled 
flights are being supervised by the United Nations in 
collaboration with the Yemeni parties.
My  country  also  underscores  its  support  for  the 
efforts  of  Special  Envoy  Martin  Griffiths.  We  call 
for further efforts to be made to support his mission, 
in  particular  to  enable  the  holding  of  meetings  and 
consultations with all Yemeni parties and the provision 
of  transportation  of  the  parties  so  that  they  can 
participate in such meetings. We believe that a political 
solution should be based on the reality on the ground in 
Yemen and that all Yemeni parties and political entities 
in the country and abroad should be given a chance to 
participate in planning a bright future for their country.
As  we  are  deeply  affected  by  the  humanitarian 
suffering  of  the  Yemeni  people,  we  would  like  to 
emphasize  that  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  will  continue 
to  provide  facilities  and  humanitarian  assistance  to 
the  brotherly  Yemeni  people,  and  that  the  land,  sea 
18-30190
7/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
and air outlets between the Sultanate of Oman and the 
Republic of Yemen, which are the only available means 
for  Yemenis  to  interact  with  the  outside  world,  will 
remain  open,  based  on  the  principles  of  brotherhood 
and  good-neighbourliness  and  the  deep  historical  and 
social ties linking our peoples.
We commend the Special Envoy of the Secretary-
General  for  Syria,  Staffan  de  Mistura,  for  his  efforts 
to  help  the  Syrian  parties  develop  a  constitutional 
foundation  for  the  country  and  build  on  the  positive 
outcomes  of  the  talks  in  Geneva,  Astana  and  Sochi 
so  as  to  stop  the  war,  achieve  national  reconciliation 
and end the conflict. We hope that the joint efforts and 
cooperation that we are now seeing in Syria and other 
places of conflict will continue.
My  country  welcomes  the  positive  developments 
in the Horn of Africa and the understandings reached 
by States in the region. They should result in restoring 
confidence  and  ending  disputes.  We  welcome  the 
efforts  of  Ethiopian  Prime  Minister  Abiy  Ahmed  and 
the key role played by his country in helping to achieve 
security and stability in the Horn of Africa region.
In  conclusion,  my  country  renews  its  call  on  all 
countries  of  the  world  to  adhere  to  the  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international 
law  and  resolve  their  differences  by  peaceful  means, 
that  is,  without  resorting  to  war,  in  the  light  of  war’s 
tragic  consequences,  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  peoples 
of the world can enjoy security, stability, development 
and prosperity.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency 
Ms.  Sushma  Swaraj,  Minister  for  External  Affairs  of 
the Republic of India.
Ms.  Swaraj  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English  text 
provided by the delegation): On my own behalf and on 
behalf of my country, India, I should like to begin by 
congratulating you, Madam President, on your election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third  session.  As  a  woman,  I  feel  doubly  proud  that 
this  honour  has  been  bestowed  on  you.  I  also  recall, 
with  equal  pride,  that  the  first  woman  to  occupy  this 
eminent position was an Indian — Mrs. Vijaya Lakshmi 
Pandit — in 1953, at the General Assembly at its eight 
session. I also thank former President Miroslav Lajčák 
for  successfully  presiding  over  the  seventy-second 
session of the General Assembly.
We 
received 
the 
tragic  news 
this  morning 
of  a  tsunami  and  an  earthquake,  which  occurred 
simultaneously. From this rostrum, on behalf of India, I 
wish to convey our deep condolences to the Government 
and the people of Indonesia. I would also like to assure 
them that India will cooperate in helping them during 
this trying time.
is 
The  United  Nations 
the  world’s  principal 
multilateral  organization,  where  nations  seek  balm 
for the wounds of history and a platform for solutions 
and  where  less  developed  nations  sit  with  their  more 
fortunate brethren to formulate plans that can correct 
skewed economic imbalances. In 2015, we established 
2030 as a critically important horizon for 17 Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs).  A  common  refrain  since 
2015 has been that we will reach that horizon only if 
India  finds  its  way  to  that  destination;  otherwise,  we 
will fail.
I  assure  the  General  Assembly  through  you, 
Madam President, that India will not let us fail. We are 
totally committed to achieving those objectives for our 
own  people.  Under  the  leadership  of  Prime  Minister 
Narendra  Modi,  India  has  initiated  an  unprecedented 
economic and social transformation that will help our 
country  achieve  its  SDG  benchmarks  well  before  the 
deadline.  I  will  provide  an  overview  to  illustrate  the 
world’s  largest-scale  exercise  in  poverty  elimination 
and social transformation.
transfers  from 
Through  the  Pradhan  Mantri  Jan-Dhan  Yojana, 
the  world’s  largest  financial  inclusion  scheme,  more 
than  320  million  Indians  who  had  previously  never 
seen  the  inside  of  a  bank  now  have  bank  accounts. 
The programme has enabled the poor to receive direct 
benefit 
the  Government’s  welfare 
programmes  into  their  personal  accounts,  thereby 
stopping  waste  and  corruption  within  the  system. 
Similarly, Ayushman Bharat Yojana, the world’s largest 
health  insurance  programme,  was  launched  by  Prime 
Minister Modi a few days ago, on 23 September. That 
revolutionary scheme will benefit 500 million Indians, 
who will receive insurance coverage of 500,000 rupees 
per family annually. We have a prayer in India — Sarve 
Santu  Niramaya  —  which  means  “May  all  be  free 
from illness”. The Ayushman Bharat Yojana, or National 
Health Protection Scheme, is the answer to that prayer.
Similarly,  we  have  launched  the  largest-scale 
housing  programme  in  the  world  aimed  at  ensuring 
that  everyone  has  a  roof  over  their  head.  Under  the 
8/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
programme,  we  have  set  for  ourselves  a  target  of 
nearly  21  million  homes  by  2022.  So  far,  more  than 
5 million homes for the poor have already been built. 
Two  extremely  effective  programmes  have  also  been 
initiated to increase the skill levels of those waiting to 
be  employed  through  the  National  Skill  Development 
Corporation  and  the  Micro  Units  Development  and 
Refinance Agency (MUDRA) programme, which seeks 
to turn the poor into entrepreneurs. I stress that more 
than 140 million Indians have taken out MUDRA loans. 
The most significant aspect of the MUDRA scheme is 
the fact that 76 per cent of its beneficiaries are women. 
At  the  heart  of  Prime  Minister  Modi’s  transformative 
vision  is  a  radical  idea,  which  is  that  uplifting  any 
nation  is  best  achieved  through  the  comprehensive 
empowerment  of  women.  All  the  programmes  that  I 
have just mentioned have the welfare of women at their 
core. Last year, I spoke about the Ujjwala programme 
(see A/72/PV.19), through which, I am happy to report, 
50  million  free  liquid-gas  connections  have  been 
provided so far.
Another  such  initiative  is  the  maternity  benefit 
programme,  in  which  women  in  India  are  provided 
with 26 weeks of paid leave to care for their newborns. 
As  a  woman,  Madam  President,  you  will  understand 
better than most how vitally important that programme 
is for every mother. Some developed nations with huge 
economies  do  not  provide  more  than  six  weeks’  paid 
leave,  thereby  leading  to  a  continuing  struggle  for 
more  time  off.  In  India,  we  have  implemented  what 
women across the world need, namely, 26 weeks of paid 
maternity leave.
In  2022,  free  India  will  be  75  years  old.  Prime 
Minister  Narendra  Modi  has  pledged  to  build  a  New 
India  by  then.  What  kind  of  India  will  that  be?  That 
India  will  be  a  clean,  healthy,  prosperous,  secure, 
educated, developed, energized and strong India. That 
is our horizon for India in 2022, and we will reach it, as 
we are sparing no effort to meet that goal.
The greatest challenges of our era are the existential 
threats of climate change and terrorism. Underdeveloped 
and  developing  nations  are  the  most  affected  victims 
of climate change. They have neither the capacity nor 
the  resources  to  meet  that  crisis.  The  countries  that 
have exploited nature for their short-term needs cannot 
abdicate their responsibilities in that matter. If we wish 
to  save  the  world  from  the  adverse  effects  of  climate 
change, the developed nations must lift up the deprived 
with  financial  and  technical  resources.  The  principle 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  and 
respective capabilities was reiterated in the 2015 Paris 
Agreement.  Prime  Minister  Modi,  together  with  the 
Prime  Minister  of  France,  launched  the  International 
Solar  Alliance.  Sixty-eight  nations  have  become 
members  of  the  Alliance  so  far.  In  March,  India  and 
France chaired the founding conference of the Alliance, 
in  which  120  countries  participated.  I  am  pleased  to 
inform  the  Assembly  that  Prime  Minister  Modi  has 
been  acknowledged  as  a  champion  in  that  area.  He  is 
also  working  towards  realizing  the  principle  of  one 
sun,  one  grid,  since  he  believes  that,  as  there  is  only 
one  sun,  there  should  also  be  a  single  universal  grid. 
If that goal is achieved, we will be witness to a major 
revolution in the energy sector, which will represent a 
major milestone in combating all phenomena related to 
climate change.
I  mentioned  terrorism  as  the  second  existential 
threat to humankind. We imagined that the advent of the 
twenty-first century would see an age of common good 
characterized  by  cooperation  but,  here  in  New  York, 
the horrific tragedy of 11 September and, in Mumbai, 
the  catastrophe  of  26  November  became  nightmares 
that  shattered  our  dreams.  The  demon  of  terrorism 
now  stalks  the  world  at  a  faster  pace  in  some  places, 
and at a slower one in others, but it is life-threatening 
everywhere. In our case, terrorism is bred not in some 
faraway  land  but  across  our  border  to  the  west.  Our 
neighbour’s  expertise  is  not  restricted  to  serving  as  a 
spawning  ground  for  terrorism;  our  neighbour  is  also 
an  expert  in  trying  to  mask  malevolence  with  verbal 
duplicity. The most startling evidence of that duplicity 
was the fact that Osama Bin Laden, the architect and 
ideologue  of  11  September,  was  given  safe  haven 
in Pakistan.
America  had  declared  Osama  Bin  Laden 
to 
be  its  most  dangerous  enemy  and  had  launched  an 
exhaustive,  worldwide  search  to  bring  him  to  justice. 
What America could perhaps not comprehend was that 
Osama would find sanctuary in a country that claimed 
to  be  America’s  friend  and  ally,  namely,  Pakistan. 
Eventually, America’s intelligence services discovered 
the  truth  of  that  hypocrisy,  and  its  special  forces 
delivered justice. But Pakistan continued to behave as 
if  nothing  had  happened.  Pakistan’s  commitment  to 
terrorism  as  an  instrument  of  official  policy  has  not 
abated  one  bit,  nor  has  its  practice  of  hypocrisy.  The 
killers of 11 September met their fate but the mastermind 
of  26  November,  Hafiz  Saeed,  continues  to  roam  the 
18-30190
9/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
streets of Pakistan with impunity. What is heartening is 
that the world is no longer ready to believe Islamabad. 
The Financial Action Task Force, for instance, has put 
Pakistan on notice with regard to the funding of terror.
We have been accused of sabotaging the process for 
talks with Pakistan. That is a complete lie. We believe 
that talks are the only rational means by which to settle 
even  the  most  complex  disputes.  Accordingly,  talks 
with  Pakistan  have  been  initiated  many  times.  When 
they failed, it was only because of Pakistan’s behaviour. 
There  have  been  many  Governments  of  numerous 
parties in India. Every Government has tried the peace 
option.  By  inviting  the  Heads  of  State  of  the  South 
Asian  Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  to  his 
swearing-in ceremony, Prime Minister Modi began his 
attempt for dialogue on his very first day in office. On 
9 December 2016, I personally went to Islamabad and 
proposed a comprehensive bilateral dialogue. But soon 
afterwards, on 2 January, Pakistan-sponsored terrorists 
attacked our air force base in Pathankot. It is clear that 
we  could  not  pursue  talks  in  the  middle  of  terrorist 
bloodshed.  Even  now,  after  the  new  Government  in 
Pakistan came to power, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, 
Imran Khan, wrote to Prime Minister Modi suggesting 
a meeting between our Foreign Ministers in New York. 
We even accepted the proposal but, within hours of our 
acceptance, news came that terrorists had killed three 
of  our  security  personnel.  Does  that  indicate  a  desire 
for dialogue? Could such a dialogue ever take place?
Time  and  again,  Pakistan  has  accused  India  of 
human rights violations. Who is a greater transgressor 
of  human  rights  than  a  terrorist?  Those  who  take 
innocent  lives  in  pursuit  of  war  by  other  means  are 
defenders of inhuman behaviour, not of human rights. 
Pakistan glorifies killers. It refuses to see the blood of 
innocent  victims.  It  has  become  something  of  a  habit 
for Pakistan to throw the dust of deceit and deception 
up against India in order to provide some thin cover for 
its own guilt.
The United Nations has seen that before. Last year, 
using her right of reply, the representative of Pakistan 
displayed some photographs as proof of alleged human 
rights  violations  by  India  (see  A/72/PV.22).  The 
photographs  turned  out  to  be  from  another  country. 
Similar  false  accusations  have  become  part  of  its 
standard rhetoric.
Each  year,  for  the  past  five  years,  India  has  been 
arguing from this rostrum that lists are not enough if we 
want to check terrorists and their protectors. We need 
to  bring  them  to  accountability  through  international 
law. In 1996, India submitted a document with a draft 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism at 
the  United  Nations.  That  draft  remains  a  draft  today 
only because we cannot agree on a common language. 
On  the  one  hand,  we  want  to  fight  terrorism;  on  the 
other, we cannot define it.
That  has  allowed  terrorists  with  a  price  on  their 
head to be celebrated in Pakistan as “freedom fighters”. 
Their  cruelty  and  barbarism  are  being  advertised  as 
heroism. The country of Pakistan prints postage stamps 
glorifying such terrorists. How long can we sit quietly 
and listen to such claims? If we do not act now, we will 
have to deal with that demon later on, when it sets fire 
to the entire world. Once again, I appeal to this body 
to  come  to  an  agreement  on  the  draft  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism and to adopt it as 
one of the necessary measures in a long-running war.
I would now like to make some remarks regarding 
the United Nations. I began by highlighting its unique 
and  positive  role,  but  I  must  add  that,  step  by  slow 
step, the importance, influence, respect for and value 
of  this  institution  are  beginning  to  ebb.  It  is  time  to 
wonder whether we are wandering towards the fate of 
the League of Nations, which came to an end because 
it  did  not  adopt  the  changes  that  were  needed.  It  was 
unwilling to accept the need for reforms; we must not 
make that mistake. The United Nations must accept that 
it needs fundamental reform. Those reforms cannot be 
simply  cosmetic;  we  need  to  change  the  institution’s 
head and heart in order to make both compatible with 
the contemporary reality.
Reform must begin today; tomorrow could be too 
late. Are all of the challenges that confronted the United 
Nations at its founding still relevant today? I feel that, 
in the Security Council, now is the time to start making 
much-needed changes.
A subject that is often debated is multilateralism. 
The  challenges  we  face  are  causing  tensions  in  many 
countries. I should like to state that India believes that 
the  world  is  one  global  family.  The  United  Nations 
should therefore work as a family. How does a family 
work? It is shaped by love, not trade; it is nurtured by 
compassion, not jealousy; it functions by compromising, 
not by fighting. That is why the United Nations must 
be  based  on  the  principles  of  the  family.  It  cannot  be 
10/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
run using “I”, “me” and “mine”; this forum needs “we”, 
“us” and “ours”. Only then will it be sustainable.
India  does  not  believe  that  only  certain  countries 
should be allowed to fulfil their goal or that we should 
take decisions on behalf of other countries that are not 
beneficial  to  them.  We  should  take  every  country’s 
goals into account.
This  year, 
India  will  celebrate 
the  150th 
anniversary  of  Mahatma  Gandhi’s  birth.  Mahatma’s 
favourite devotional hymn was “Vaishnav Jan To Tene 
Kahiye” or “Call those people Vaishnavas who feel the 
pain of others”. Its essence is that he who understands 
the pain of another and absorbs it as his own is a good 
human being. He who sees that pain and helps without 
becoming arrogant is a good human being.
We  have  to  make  the  Assembly  a  platform  for 
understanding,  assistance  and  true  justice.  We  have 
to understand the pain of other nations and work with 
developed  nations  to  ease  and  eliminate  their  pain. 
Arrogance  has  no  place  in  our  scheme  of  things; 
arrogance  is  counter-productive  and  self-defeating. 
Let  us  work  for  the  benefit  of  the  less  fortunate  and 
towards a world that is free from terrorism, tension and 
violence. That is the universe we envisage.
It is with that wish in mind that I end with a Sanskrit 
shloka or song: May all experience well-being; may all 
experience  peace;  may  all  move  towards  perfection; 
may all enjoy prosperity; may all achieve serenity.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Walid  Al-Moualem,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Expatriates  of  the 
Syrian Arab Republic.
Mr.  Al-Moualem  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Madam 
President, and your country, Ecuador, on your election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third  session.  I  wish  you  every  success.  I  would  also 
like to thank your predecessor for his role in steering 
the work of the Assembly during the previous session. 
I  thank  as  well  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations for his efforts pursuant to the Charter.
Every year we come to this important international 
forum  carrying  hopes  and  wishes  that  every  place  in 
this  world  will  have  become  more  secure,  stable  and 
prosperous. Today, our hope is greater than ever, as we 
are confident that the will of the people will eventually 
triumph. Our hope and confidence are the result of more 
than seven years of hardship during which our people 
have suffered from the scourge of terrorism. However, 
Syrians  have  refused  to  compromise  and  succumb  to 
terrorist  groups  and  their  external  supporters.  They 
have  stood  their  ground  and  remained  defiant,  fully 
convinced  that  their  struggle  is  a  battle  for  their 
existence,  their  history  and  their  future,  from  which 
they will ultimately emerge victorious.
To the disappointment of some, we are here today, 
more  than  seven  years  into  the  dirty  war  against  my 
country, to announce to the world that the situation on 
the  ground  has  become  more  secure  and  stable,  and 
that  our  battle  against  terrorism  is  almost  over.  That 
is true thanks to the heroism, resolve and unity of the 
Syrian people and the army, and to the support of our 
allies and friends. Despite those achievements, we are 
determined to continue the sacred battle until we purge 
all Syrian territories of terrorist groups, regardless of 
their names, and any illegal foreign presence. We will 
pay no heed to any aggression or external pressure on 
us, or to any lies or allegations that seek to discourage 
us. That is our duty and a non-negotiable right that we 
have exercised as we eradicated terrorism from most of 
the Syrian territories.
The Governments of certain countries have denied 
us  our  right  under  international  law  and  our  national 
duty  to  combat  terrorism  and  protect  our  people  on 
our  land  and  within  our  own  borders.  At  the  same 
time, those Governments have founded an illegitimate 
international  coalition  led  by  the  United  States  under 
the pretext of combating terrorism in Syria. However, 
that coalition has done everything but fight terrorism. 
It  has  even  proved  that  the  coalition’s  goals  were  in 
line  with  those  of  terrorist  groups,  namely,  spreading 
chaos, killing and destruction. The coalition destroyed 
the  Syrian  city  of  Raqqa,  destroyed  infrastructure 
and  public  services  in  targeted  areas  and  massacred 
civilians, including children and women, all of which 
constitute war crimes under international law.
On the other hand, the coalition has provided direct 
military support to terrorists on multiple occasions as 
they fought against the Syrian army. It should have been 
more aptly named the coalition to support terrorists and 
commit war crimes.
The  situation  and  its  dimensions  in  Syria  cannot 
be  divorced  from  the  conflict  raging  between  two 
axes  on  the  world  stage.  One  axis  promotes  peace, 
stability  and  prosperity  across  the  world,  advocates 
18-30190
11/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
for  a  culture  of  dialogue  and  mutual  understanding, 
respects international law and upholds the principle of 
non-interference in the internal affairs of other States. 
The  other  axis  tries  to  spread  chaos  in  international 
relations  and  insists  on  employing  colonization  and 
hegemony  as  tools  to  further  its  narrow  interests, 
even if that means resorting to dirty methods such as 
supporting terrorism and imposing economic blockades 
in  order  to  subjugate  peoples  and  Governments  that 
reject external dictates and insist on making their own 
independent national decisions.
What happened in Syria should have been a lesson 
to  those  countries,  but  they  refuse  to  learn.  That  is 
why we, the Members of this Organization, must make 
clear and unequivocal choices. Are we going to defend 
international law and the Charter of the United Nations 
and be on the side of justice? Or are we going to succumb 
to hegemonic tendencies and the law of the jungle that 
some are trying to impose on this Organization and the 
world?
Today,  the  situation  on  the  ground  is  more  stable 
and secure thanks to the progress made in combating 
terrorism.  The  Syrian  Government  continues 
to 
rehabilitate  the  areas  destroyed  by  terrorists  and 
restore normal life. All conditions are now present for 
the voluntary return of Syrian refugees to the country 
that  they  had  to  leave  because  of  terrorism  and  the 
unilateral economic measures that targeted their daily 
lives and their livelihoods. It is true that thousands of 
Syrian  refugees  living  abroad  have  started  to  return 
home. From this rostrum, I would like to stress that the 
return of each and every Syrian refugee is a priority for 
the Syrian State. Doors are wide open for all Syrians 
abroad to return voluntarily and safely. I underline that 
what  applies  to  Syrians  inside  Syria  also  applies  to 
Syrians abroad. Everyone is under the law.
Thanks  to  the  help  from  the  Government  of  the 
Russian Federation, the Syrian Government will spare 
no effort to facilitate the return of those refugees and 
meet their basic needs. Therefore, a special coordination 
body  has  been  established  to  coordinate  the  return 
of  refugees  to  their  places  of  origin  in  Syria  and  to 
enable  them  to  rebuild  their  normal  lives.  Although 
we have called upon the international community and 
humanitarian  organizations  to  facilitate  the  return  of 
refugees, some Western countries — as a complement 
to  the  dirty  role  they  have  played  since  the  start  of 
the  war  in  Syria  —  continue  to  obstruct  the  return 
of  those  Syrian  refugees  to  their  country.  They  are 
spreading  fears  among  refugees  under  false  pretexts 
and politicizing that purely humanitarian issue, using it 
as a bargaining chip to serve their political agenda and 
linking the return of refugees to the political process.
Today, as we are about to close the last chapter of the 
Syrian crisis, Syrians are determined to come together, 
erase the traces of that terrorist war and rebuild their 
country  with  their  own  hands  and  experience.  That 
applies to those who stayed in Syria and to those who 
were  forced  to  leave  as  a  result  of  terrorist  acts.  We 
welcome all of the initiatives of States and parties that 
did  not  engage  in  the  aggression  against  Syria  and 
were  clear  and  explicit  in  rejecting  terrorism  to  help 
the Syrian Government in the reconstruction process. 
We  underscore  once  again  that  the  friendly  countries 
that  stood  by  our  side  against  terrorism  have  priority 
in participating in the reconstruction programmes. As 
for the countries that offer only conditional assistance 
to engage in the reconstruction process or continue to 
support terrorism, they are basically neither invited nor 
welcome.
In  parallel  with  achieving  progress  against 
terrorism, as well as in reconstruction and the return of 
refugees, we are keen to advance the political process 
while  maintaining  our  constant  principles,  namely,  to 
preserve the sovereignty, independence and unity of the 
territory and people of the Syrian Arab Republic. The 
Syrian people have the exclusive right to determine the 
future of their country without any external interference 
and free of terrorism in the Syrian territories.
Based  on  those  constant  principles,  we  have 
expressed time and again our readiness to respond to 
any initiative that could help Syrians to end the crisis. 
We have engaged positively and openly in the Geneva 
talks, the Astana process and the intra-Syrian national 
dialogue  in  Sochi.  However,  it  has  always  been  the 
other parties that have set obstacles, rejected dialogue 
and resorted to terrorism and foreign interference.
Nevertheless,  we  continue  to  adopt  a  positive 
attitude  towards  the  outcomes  of  the  Syrian  national 
dialogue in Sochi on the formation of a committee to 
review  the  current  constitution.  We  have  presented  a 
practical and comprehensive vision on the composition, 
prerogatives  and  working  methods  of  that  committee, 
and  submitted  a  list  of  representatives  on  behalf  of 
the  Syrian  State.  We  stress  that  the  mandate  of  the 
committee  is  limited  to  reviewing  the  articles  of  the 
current Constitution through a Syrian-led and Syrian-
12/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
owned  process  that  may  be  facilitated  by  the  Special 
Envoy of the Secretary-General for Syria.
Mr. Bahr Aluloom (Iraq), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
We  also  stress  that  no  preconditions  or  foregone 
conclusions  should  be  imposed  on  the  committee 
and  its  recommendations.  The  committee  must  be 
independent, given that the Constitution and anything 
relating  to  it  is  a  Syrian  matter  to  be  decided  by 
Syrians themselves. We will not, therefore, accept any 
proposal  that  constitutes  interference  in  the  internal 
affairs  of  Syria  or  might  lead  to  such  interference. 
We  underscore  that  the  Syrian  people  must  have  the 
final word regarding any constitutional or other matter 
relating to sovereignty. We also reaffirm our readiness 
to work actively with countries friendly to the Syrian 
Government to launch the work of the committee along 
the bases and parameters that I have just mentioned.
In conjunction with the international initiatives that 
I have referred to, local national reconciliation is well 
under way. Reconciliation agreements have stopped the 
bloodshed  and  prevented  destruction  in  many  Syrian 
areas.  They  have  restored  stability  and  normal  life  to 
those areas, allowing their people to return to the homes 
that  they  were  forced  to  leave  because  of  terrorism. 
Reconciliation  will  therefore  remain  our  priority  and 
our focus.
The battle we have fought in Syria against terrorism 
has not only been a military one; it has also been a battle 
between  the  culture  of  destruction,  extremism  and 
death and the culture of construction, tolerance and life. 
I therefore appeal from this rostrum to the international 
community  to  fight  the  ideology  of  terrorism  and 
violent extremism and prevent it from getting support 
and financial resources, and to implement the relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  notably  resolution  2253 
(2015).  The  military  battle  against  terrorism,  while 
important, is not enough. Terrorism is like an epidemic: 
it will return, break out and threaten everyone without 
exception.
We  fully  condemn  and  reject  the  use  of  chemical 
weapons  under  any  circumstances,  wherever  or 
whenever  it  occurs  and  regardless  of  the  target.  That 
is  why  Syria  completely  eliminated  its  chemical 
programme  and  fulfilled  all  its  commitments  to  the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons 
(OPCW), as confirmed by numerous OPCW reports.
Although  some  Western  countries  are  constantly 
trying  to  politicize  that  organization’s  work,  we  have 
always  cooperated  with  the  OPCW  to  the  fullest 
extent possible. Unfortunately, every time we express 
our  readiness  to  receive  objective  and  professional 
investigative  teams  to  investigate  the  alleged  use  of 
chemical weapons, those countries have blocked such 
efforts  because  they  know  that  the  conclusions  of  the 
investigations  would  not  satisfy  them  given  the  ill 
intentions they harbour against Syria. Those countries 
have  ready-made  accusations  and  scenarios  to  justify 
aggression against Syria. That was the case when the 
United  States,  France  and  Britain  launched  a  wanton 
tripartite aggression on Syria last April, claiming that 
chemical  weapons  had  been  used,  but  without  any 
investigation  or  evidence  and  in  flagrant  violation  of 
Syria’s  sovereignty,  international  law  and  the  Charter 
of the United Nations.
Meanwhile, those same countries have disregarded 
all  of  the  reliable  information  that  we  have  provided 
on  chemical  weapons  in  the  possession  of  terrorist 
groups  that  were  used  by  them  on  multiple  occasions 
with a view to casting blame on the Syrian Government 
and  justifying  a  predetermined  attack  against  it.  The 
terrorist organization known as the White Helmets was 
the main tool used to mislead public opinion, fabricate 
accusations  and  come  up  with  lies  regarding  the  use 
of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria.  The  White  Helmets 
organization was created by British intelligence under 
a humanitarian cover. It has been proved, however, that 
that organization is part of the Al-Nusra Front, which is 
affiliated with Al-Qaida. Despite all those allegations, 
we  remain  determined  to  liberate  every  inch  of  our 
territory  without  concern  for  the  black  banners  of 
terrorists or the theatrics of the White Helmets.
In another episode of the terrorist war on Syria since 
2011,  brutal  suicide  bombings  in  July  orchestrated  by 
Da’esh rocked the province of Al-Suwayda in southern 
Syria. It is worth noting that the terrorists behind that 
attack came from the Al-Tanf area, where United States 
forces are present. That area has become a safe haven for 
remnant groups of Da’esh gunmen, who are now hiding 
in the Rukban refugee camp on the border with Jordan 
under the protection and sponsorship of United States 
forces present in the area. In line with its investment in 
terrorism  aimed  at  prolonging  the  crisis  in  Syria,  the 
United States has also sought to release terrorists from 
Guantanamo prison and send them to Syria, where they 
18-30190
13/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
have become the effective leaders of the Al-Nusra Front 
and other terrorist groups.
Meanwhile, 
the  Turkish  regime  continues 
to 
support  terrorists  in  Syria.  Since  day  one  of  the  war 
on  Syria,  the  Turkish  regime  has  trained  and  armed 
terrorists, turning Turkey into a hub and a corridor for 
terrorists on their way to Syria. When those terrorists 
failed to serve its agenda, the Turkish regime resorted 
to direct aggression by attacking many cities and towns 
in  northern  Syria.  However,  all  actions  that  seek  to 
undermine  Syria’s  sovereignty,  unity  and  territorial 
integrity and that violate international law will not stop 
us from exercising our right and duty to recover all our 
land and purge it of terrorists, whether through military 
action or local reconciliation agreements.
Based  on  the  aforementioned,  we  have  always 
welcomed  any  initiative  that  prevents  further  Syrian 
bloodshed  and  restores  security  and  safety  to  areas 
affected  by  terrorism.  That  is  why  we  welcomed  the 
agreement on Idlib reached in Sochi on 17 September. 
That agreement was the result of intensive consultations 
and  full  coordination  between  Syria  and  Russia. 
We  underscore  that  that  agreement  is  time-bound 
and  includes  specific  deadlines.  It  complements  the 
agreements  previously  reached  in  Astana  on  the 
de-escalation zones. We hope that, when the agreement 
is implemented, the Al-Nusra Front and other terrorist 
groups will be eradicated, thereby eliminating the last 
remnants of terrorism on the Syrian territories.
Any foreign presence on Syrian territories without 
the  consent  of  the  Syrian  Government  is  illegal  and 
constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and 
the Charter of the United Nations. It is an assault on our 
national sovereignty and undermines counter-terrorism 
efforts  and  threatens  regional  peace  and  security. 
We  therefore  consider  that  any  forces  operating  on 
Syrian  territories  without  a  request  from  the  Syrian 
Government  — 
including  United  States,  French 
and  Turkish  forces  —  are  occupying  forces,  which 
will  be  dealt  with  accordingly.  They  must  withdraw 
immediately and unconditionally.
Israel continues to occupy a cherished part of our 
land in the Syrian Golan, and our people there continue 
to suffer because of Israel’s oppressive and aggressive 
policies.  Israel  has  even  supported  terrorist  groups 
that have operated in southern Syria, protecting them 
through  direct  military  intervention  and  launching 
repeated  attacks  on  Syrian  land.  However,  just  as 
we  liberated  southern  Syria  from  terrorists,  we  are 
determined to fully restore the occupied Syrian Golan 
along the lines of 4 June 1967. Syria demands that the 
international  community  effectively  put  an  end  to  all 
such  Israeli  practices  and  compel  Israel  to  implement 
the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  notably 
resolution 497 (1981), on the occupied Syrian Golan.
The  international  community  must  also  help  the 
Palestinian  people  to  establish  their  own  independent 
State,  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and  facilitate  the 
return  of  Palestinian  refugees  to  their  land,  pursuant 
to resolutions of international legitimacy. Any actions 
that undermine those rights are null and void and can 
only  be  rejected,  as  they  threaten  regional  peace  and 
security,  especially  the  racist  Israeli  law  known  as 
the  Nation-State  Law  and  the  decision  of  the  United 
States Administration to move the American embassy 
to  Jerusalem  and  to  stop  funding  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East.
Syria strongly condemns the decision of the United 
States  Administration  to  withdraw  from  the  nuclear 
agreement  with  Iran,  which  proves  once  again  that 
Administration’s  disregard  for  and  non-commitment 
to international treaties and conventions. We reiterate 
our  full  solidarity  with  the  leaders  and  the  people  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  and  trust  that  they  will 
overcome the effects of that irresponsible decision on 
the part of the United States Administration.
In  the  same  context,  we  also  stand  with  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Venezuela  against  the 
attempts  by  the  United  States  to  interfere  in  their 
internal affairs. We call once again for the lifting of the 
unilateral  economic  measures  imposed  on  the  Syrian 
people  and  all  other  independent  peoples  around  the 
world,  especially  those  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Cuba and Belarus.
In conclusion, I would like everyone to know that 
Syria, with the help of its allies and friends, will defeat 
terrorism.  We  must  be  treated  accordingly.  It  is  high 
time for some people to detach themselves from their 
state of separation from reality, abandon their illusions 
and  come  to  understand  that  they  will  not  achieve 
politically what they failed to achieve by war. We have 
never  compromised  on  our  national  principles,  even 
when the war was at its peak. We will surely not do so 
today.
14/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
At the same time, we want peace for the peoples of the 
world — that is the message we are sending — because 
we want peace for our people. We have never attacked 
others; we have never interfered in the affairs of others; 
and  we  have  never  exported  terrorism  to  other  parts 
of  the  world.  We  have  always  maintained  the  best 
relations  with  other  countries.  Today,  as  we  seek  to 
defeat terrorism, we continue to advocate dialogue and 
understanding, which serves the interests of our people 
and helps to achieve security, stability and prosperity 
for all.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ri  Yong  Ho,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea.
Mr.  Ri  Yong  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text  provided  by 
the  delegation):  First  of  all,  allow  me  to  congratulate 
Her  Excellency  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés 
on her election as President of the General Assembly at 
its seventy-third session. I look forward to a successful 
outcome of the session under her able stewardship.
Peace and development is the common desire of our 
times and constitutes the main objective of the United 
Nations,  defining  all  of  its  activities.  Many  countries 
around the world concentrate their efforts on achieving 
peace and development, but such efforts are still faced 
with serious challenges. During the past year, we have 
witnessed  greater  tension  in  overall  international 
relations, with peace being threatened and development 
being deterred in many parts of the world owing to the 
“power  does  it  all”  attitude  of  unilateralism.  Such  a 
situation requires that the role of the United Nations be 
even further enhanced.
It is on the Korean peninsula that the most tangible 
trend towards peace and development was newly created 
this year. In April, Comrade Kim Jong Un, Chairman 
of  the  State  Affairs  Commission  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea, put forward a new strategic 
line of concentrating all efforts on socialist economic 
construction.
Since  we  have  sufficiently  consolidated  our 
national defence capabilities and war deterrence so as 
to  cope  with  the  several-decades-long  nuclear  threats 
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, we 
now must concentrate all of our efforts on the historic 
task of building the economy. Our Government’s policy 
line  of  focusing  on  the  economy  requires  a  peaceful 
environment above all else.
Comrade  Chairman  Kim  Jong  Un  has  actively 
participated in summit-level diplomatic activities with 
a  firm  determination  to  turn  the  Korean  peninsula 
into  a  land  of  peace,  free  of  both  nuclear  weapons 
and  nuclear  threats.  He  thereby  made  an  important 
breakthrough  in  improving  North-South  relations  and 
relations between the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea and the United States, as well as in revitalizing 
friendly  and  cooperative  relations  with  neighbouring 
countries, thus marking a turning point and a dramatic 
easing  of  tensions  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  the 
region as whole. Peace and security in the region will be 
consolidated and that, in turn, will lead to world peace 
and security — to the benefit of all States Members of 
the United Nations.
The fact that representatives of numerous countries 
have  been  unanimous  in  supporting  and  welcoming, 
from this rostrum, the current direction of developments 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  clearly  shows  that  the 
Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea’s strategic choice and its sincere efforts to pursue 
that choice are fully aligned with the common interests 
and desires of the international community.
The  key  to  consolidating  peace  and  security  on 
the  Korean  peninsula  is  to  thoroughly  implement  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-United  States 
Joint Statement, adopted in June at the historic bilateral 
summit held in Singapore. The Joint Statement contains 
all  of  the  issues  of  principle  regarding  eventual 
solutions to the issues on the Korean peninsula, such as 
terminating the decades-long hostility between the two 
countries and establishing new relations between them, 
thus  building  a  robust  peace  regime  on  the  Korean 
peninsula,  realizing  the  complete  denuclearization 
of  the  peninsula  and  promoting  humanitarian  work 
between the two countries.
Once  the  Joint  Statement  has  been  implemented, 
the current trend towards détente will turn into durable 
peace, and the complete denuclearization of the Korean 
peninsula will also be achieved. As a result, the Korean 
peninsula,  currently  the  most  intense  global  hotspot, 
will  become  a  cradle  of  peace  and  prosperity  that 
contributes to security in Asia and the rest of the world.
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  the  full 
implementation of the Joint Statement is unwavering. The 
The  commitment  of 
the  Government  of 
18-30190
15/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
primary task in ensuring the effective implementation 
of the Statement must be to break down the barrier of 
mistrust between the two countries that has existed for 
several decades. To that end, the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  should 
devote great efforts to building trust as a top priority. 
The  implementation  of  previous  agreements  reached 
in  various  dialogues  and  negotiations  between  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the United 
States  ended  in  failure  because  the  level  of  mistrust 
between  them  was  too  high  and  resulted  in  a  general 
lack of confidence.
It  is  our  position  that  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean  peninsula  should  be  achieved  alongside  the 
building of a peace regime, on the basis of the principle 
of simultaneous actions, step by step, starting with what 
we can do and prioritizing the building of trust. Out of 
the  desire  and  resolute  determination  to  successfully 
implement the Joint Statement, the Government of the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  primarily 
focusing its efforts on building trust. Even before the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea-United  States 
summit,  our  Government  took  significant  goodwill 
measures, such as stopping nuclear and intercontinental 
ballistic-missile  tests,  dismantling  the  nuclear  test 
site  in  a  transparent  manner  and  committing  not  to 
transfer nuclear weapons or nuclear technology under 
any  circumstances.  We  continue  to  make  efforts  to 
build trust.
However, we do not see any corresponding response 
from  the  United  States.  On  the  contrary,  instead  of 
addressing  our  concern  about  the  lack  of  a  peace 
regime on the Korean peninsula, the United States has 
insisted on denuclearization first and has increased the 
level of pressure through sanctions in order to achieve 
its  purpose  through  coercion  —  even  objecting  to  an 
end-of-war  declaration.  The  perception  that  sanctions 
can bring us to our knees is a pipe dream of people who 
are ignorant about us. The problem is that the continued 
sanctions are deepening our mistrust. The reason behind 
the recent deadlock is that the United States relies on 
coercive methods that are lethal to trust-building.
South relations in a constructive manner, and this has 
been translated into tangible results.
the 
two  countries 
As demonstrated by the Pyongyang Joint Declaration 
of September 2018, which was jointly announced by the 
leaders  of  the  North  and  the  South  on  19  September, 
dialogue  between 
in  many 
areas — including politics, the military, humanitarian 
work,  sports,  culture  and  economic  cooperation  —  is 
very active, and there is an unprecedented atmosphere 
of  reconciliation  and  cooperation.  Many  noteworthy 
outcomes  can  be  seen,  and  the  process  enjoys  the 
support of and is welcomed by the entire Korean nation 
and  the  international  community.  If  South  Korea  had 
been the party involved in the issue of denuclearization 
instead of the United States, the denuclearization of the 
Korean peninsula would not be at such a deadlock.
That is why we attach great importance to building 
confidence between the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea and the United States for the implementation 
of  the  Joint  Statement.  Without  trust  in  the  United 
States, we can have no confidence with regard to our 
national  security,  and,  under  those  circumstances, 
there is no way that we will unilaterally disarm first. 
The commitment of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea to denuclearization is firm. However, it will 
be possible only if the United States sufficiently earns 
our trust.
There are pessimistic views on the implementation 
of the Joint Statement inside the United States, but that 
is not due to any flaw in the Statement itself. Rather, 
it  is  because  of  the  domestic  politics  of  the  United 
States.  The  political  opposition  there,  with  the  sole 
purpose  of  attacking  its  political  opponent,  makes  it 
its  daily  business  to  slander  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, claiming that we cannot be trusted. 
That opposition is forcing the Administration to make 
unreasonable unilateral demands on us, thus impeding 
the  smooth  progress  of  dialogue  and  negotiations. 
Fuelling  mistrust  of  a  dialogue  partner  while  relying 
only on coercive methods is not at all helpful in building 
trust; on the contrary, it only increases mistrust.
The  recent  dramatic  improvement  in  North-South 
relations  and  the  atmosphere  of  cooperation  clearly 
show  how  decisive  the  role  of  trust-building  can  be. 
In less than five months, the leaders of the North and 
the South met three times. Through their meetings and 
talks they have been building the trust in one another 
that is necessary to resolve the various issues in North-
On the topic of reasons to distrust each other, it is 
we  who  have  far  more  reasons  to  distrust  the  United 
States.  First,  the  United  States  acquired  nuclear 
weapons  before  we  did  and  is  the  only  country  that 
has actually used them in war. From the very first day 
of  our  Republic,  70  years  ago,  the  United  States  has 
maintained  a  hostile  policy  against  our  country  and 
16/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
has imposed a total economic blockade on us, ensuring 
that United States companies cannot trade even a single 
screwnail with our country. Even though we have not 
thrown  so  much  as  a  pebble  onto  United  States  soil, 
during  the  Korean  War  the  United  States  threatened 
to drop dozens of atomic bombs on our country. Even 
after that, the United States kept positioning strategic 
nuclear arsenals at our doorstep.
If  both  countries  continue  to  harbour  mistrust 
towards one other and to remain obsessed with the past, 
the recent Joint Statement cannot escape the same fate 
as all previous agreements between the two countries, 
namely, failure.
One  part  of  the  spirit  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea-United States summit in Singapore 
was to free ourselves from old, conventional ways and 
to try an entirely new way of resolving the issues. At 
this  critical  juncture,  the  United  States  should  use 
foresight and decide that the faithful fulfilment of the 
commitment that it made in Singapore will, in the end, 
be in its own national interest and should form the basis 
of a new method for improving relations between our 
two countries. Only then will the Joint Statement have 
positive  prospects.  If  the  Joint  Statement  falls  victim 
to  American  internal  politics,  the  main  victim  of  the 
subsequent  unpredictable  consequences  will  be  the 
United States.
Improving  bilateral  relations  and  resolving  issues 
on the Korean peninsula is key to achieving the theme 
of this session: “Making the United Nations relevant to 
all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities 
for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”. Our 
new  policy  of  concentrating  all  efforts  on  building 
our  economy  is  the  right  political  choice,  not  only 
for  improving  the  lives  of  our  people  but  also  for 
realizing the common aspirations of people around the 
world — peace and development.
The  international  community  should  support  and 
encourage our efforts to focus on building the economy 
in response to the bold decisions and goodwill measures 
that  we  have  taken  for  the  easing  of  tension  and  the 
maintenance of lasting peace on the Korean peninsula. 
The implementation of the Joint Statement is a shared 
responsibility  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea and the United States. The United Nations also 
plays a key role.
The  Security  Council,  which  was  once  so  eager 
to express its concern about the tense situation on the 
Korean  peninsula,  has  recently  been  silent  about  the 
valuable  momentum  for  peace  that  we  have  achieved 
this  year.  That  is  quite  strange.  The  Council  rained 
down  numerous  sanctions  resolutions  on  us,  taking 
issue with our nuclear tests and missile test launches. 
But now, a full year after such tests were stopped, not a 
word in those resolutions has changed, to say nothing of 
completely removing or easing sanctions. Worse still, 
the Council is taking a very worrying stand by rejecting 
the  proposal  of  some  of  its  member  States  to  issue  a 
presidential  statement  that  welcomes  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea-United States summit and 
the Joint Statement.
The United Nations Command in South Korea even 
showed alarming signs of hindering the implementation 
of  the  Panmunjom  Declaration  on  Peace,  Prosperity 
and  Reunification  of  the  Korean  Peninsula,  reached 
between  the  North  and  the  South.  As  for  the  United 
Nations  Command,  it  is  merely  a  command  of  the 
allied forces beyond the control of the United Nations 
and only obeys the orders of the United States, yet still 
misuses the sacred name of the Organization.
Based  on  the  mission  of  the  Organization  as 
defined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
Organization, and especially the Security Council, has 
the  responsibility  and  duty  to  support  and  welcome 
developments  that  help  to  ensure  international  peace 
and  security.  The  United  Nations  should  really  apply 
the theme of this session to its actual activities and thus 
rid itself, as soon as possible, of the stigma of the feeling 
that the Security Council equals the United States.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Abdelkader Messahel, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Algeria.
Mr.  Messahel  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 
me  at  the  outset  to  express  my  warm  and  fraternal 
congratulations  to  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa 
Garcés  on  her  outstanding  election  to  preside  over 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session. 
Her  vast  experience  in  international  political  affairs 
will  undoubtedly  contribute  greatly  to  the  successful 
conduct of the work of the Assembly. In our capacity as 
Vice-President elected by the Assembly, we assure her 
of our full support in carrying out her noble task.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute  to  Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák  for  his  dedicated 
commitment  in  the  way  he  managed  the  previous 
session. I am also deeply grateful to Secretary-General 
18-30190
17/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
António  Guterres  for  his  enlightened  leadership  and 
for his laudable initiatives since he assumed his post. 
His  efforts  are  aimed  at  giving  renewed  impetus 
to  our  Organization,  particularly  in  the  essential 
domains  pertaining  to  international  peace,  security 
and development.
It is highly regrettable that the entire world continues 
to experience an unprecedented and multifaceted crisis; 
the Secretary-General was right in warning about the 
risks that that entails. He rightly warned that conflicts 
had worsened and that new dangers are emerging (see 
A/73/PV.6). Global concerns related to nuclear weapons 
have  not  reached  the  current  level  since  the  Second 
World  War.  Environmental  imbalances  are  occurring 
faster than our responses can deal with them, and the 
gap  resulting  from  the  current  differences  is  growing 
wider, while gross human rights violations are taking 
place and nationalism and xenophobia are on the rise.
In the context of the advanced and inevitable growth 
in globalization that we face, the seriousness of those 
colossal challenges, both old and new, are aggravated 
by  the  perverse  effects  of  the  continuing  economic 
and  financial  crisis.  Against  that  backdrop,  which 
has  become  even  more  alarming  owing  to  the  recent 
appearance  of  unilateral  and  protectionist  trends,  we 
must have the courage to recognize the inadequacy and 
futility  of  the  policies  that  have  been  implemented  to 
date and the structural deficiencies of the increasingly 
ineffective global governance architecture.
its 
When he acceded to the presidency of the General 
twenty-ninth  session,  President 
Assembly  at 
Abdelaziz  Bouteflika  warned  that  membership  in  the 
United Nations was not enough to protect nations against 
hunger and insecurity (see A/PV.2233). Today, we can 
no  longer  accept  the  perpetuation  of  an  international 
order that does not encourage the international values 
of  peace,  justice  and  development,  as  well  as  science 
and technology, while contributing to improving living 
conditions. That order has concentrated economic and 
financial  resources  in  the  hands  of  a  small  minority, 
widening  the  existing  gap  that  separates  the  richest 
from the poorest countries and peoples. The unfortunate 
conclusion is that we are facing a real moral crisis.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  rightness  and 
appropriateness  of  the  theme  chosen  for  our  session. 
Indeed, now more than ever, the United Nations must 
find  ways  and  means  that  enable  it  to  fully  play  the 
role that its founding fathers envisioned for it following 
the devastation of a global confrontation. Such a vital 
objective for the entire international community cannot 
be achieved without a renewed collective commitment 
to effective and real multilateralism, in harmony with 
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations — a 
commitment  to  which  the  former  Secretary-General, 
the  late  Kofi  Annan,  a  worthy  son  of  Africa  and  a 
committed citizen of the world, dedicated his life and 
with which he associated his name. While the United 
Nations remains the distinctive forum for dialogue and 
cooperation  among  the  nations  of  the  world,  it  must 
also bring about the desired change.
In our view, the genuine change that we seek and 
which is of the utmost priority requires us to mobilize 
all our capabilities and efforts with a view to reforming 
the United Nations itself. It is imperative that the reform 
should  involve  both  the  structures  and  the  operating 
methods of the Organization, particularly the Security 
Council, by paying particular attention in the first place 
to redressing the historical injustice done to the African 
continent  in  terms  of  its  underrepresentation  in  both 
membership categories of that body. The reform must 
also include the revitalization of the role of the General 
Assembly  and  the  strengthening  of  its  authority  —  a 
necessity around which there is, fortunately, a growing 
consensus.
Conscious of our responsibilities and contributions 
to the maintenance of international peace and security 
and with full respect for the cardinal principles of our 
foreign policy, Algeria follows with particular interest 
the  crises  and  conflicts  facing  the  countries  in  our 
region. While continuing to fully play our role to the 
best of our ability, my country reiterates its conviction, 
on the basis of our own experience, that conflicts cannot 
be totally resolved without promoting solutions that are 
owned  by  the  parties  concerned  and  reached  through 
inclusive  dialogue  and  that  place  national  interests 
above all other considerations, thereby preserving the 
sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial  integrity  of 
States. Whether related to the situations in Mali, Libya, 
Syria or Yemen, only such an approach can enable those 
sisterly countries to restore peace and stability so that 
they may begin their rebuilding process.
With  regard  to  the  Western  Sahara  issue,  which 
comes  before  the  United  Nations  as  an  issue  of 
decolonization, Algeria believes that its settlement can 
be achieved only by allowing the people of the Western 
Sahara to exercise their inalienable and non-assignable 
right to self-determination.
18/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
My  country  reiterates  its  firm  support  for  the 
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Personal 
Envoy for Western Sahara and expresses the hope that 
their  actions,  together  with  the  input  of  the  African 
Union, will contribute to the resumption of negotiations 
without  preconditions  and  in  good  faith  between  the 
two  parties  to  the  conflict,  namely,  the  Kingdom  of 
Morocco  and  the  POLISARIO  Front,  with  a  view  to 
reaching  a  mutually  acceptable  political  solution  that 
ensures the self-determination of the people of Western 
Sahara.
In  the  same  vein,  Algeria  is  convinced  that  only 
a  solution  based  on  international  legitimacy  and  the 
recognition  of  the  inalienable  national  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people,  including  their  right  to  establish 
an  independent  State  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its 
capital, can put a definitive end to the conflict that has 
existed in the Middle East for seven decades.
Terrorism, of which Algeria was the first target at the 
end of the last century, has now become one of the most 
destructive scourges on the planet. At the cost of heavy 
sacrifices, my country was able to confront it alone by 
adopting an approach and by harnessing methods that 
have proved to be effective. That experience, which we 
are willing to share, was based on the conviction that 
addressing terrorism must imperatively tackle its root 
causes  and  must  be  accompanied  by  a  policy  that  is 
resolute against violent extremism.
The international community is particularly called 
upon  to  ensure  that  the  fight  against  terrorism  is 
accompanied by measures to fight extremism and the 
promotion of policies that advocate coexistence. In that 
context, I am pleased to recall that the United Nations 
resolution declaring 16 May as the International Day of 
Living Together in Peace (resolution 72/130), which was 
initiated  by  Algeria,  is  part  of  the  efforts  to  promote 
the principle of an inclusive dialogue leading the quest 
for  solutions  to  the  challenges  to  stability  at  both  the 
national and the international levels.
We  are  proud  that  the  values  and  principles  of 
living together in peace were the basis of the policy of 
civil  harmony  and  national  reconciliation,  which  was 
implemented with determination by President Abdelaziz 
Bouteflika  of  the  Republic  of  Algeria  in  order  to  end 
the national tragedy and reconcile Algerians with each 
other.
Those unifying ideals are considered above all to 
be  the  common  factor  among  the  strategies,  policies 
and programmes that were implemented in the various 
economic,  social,  educational,  cultural  and  religious 
fields.  Those  same  principles  consistently  guide 
my  country’s  foreign  policy  in  our  relations  with 
neighbouring  countries  and  other  countries  of  the 
world.
The  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development 
and  the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda  of  the  Third 
International Conference on Financing for Development 
are remarkable achievements that require the substantial 
mobilization of both the means and the capabilities for 
their  implementation.  We  express  the  hope  that  the 
outcome  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on  Financing  the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which was 
convened  by  the  Secretary-General  on  24  September, 
will  provide  a  solid  foundation  for  concerted  action 
between  the  United  Nations  system  and  Member 
States  for  development  in  line  with  the  aspirations  of 
developing countries, as advocated by the Group of 77.
the 
development  of  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development, is about to finalize its national progress 
report  for  2016-2018  on  the  implementation  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals, 
for  voluntary 
submission  to  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in 
July 2019. That is part of the new development agenda 
adopted  by  Algeria  in  2016.  It  is  a  policy  that  aims 
to  place  Algeria  among  emerging  countries  by  2035, 
enabling  it  to  diversify  and  transform  its  economy 
through the revival and consolidation of its economic 
growth.  That  will  benefit  all  its  citizens,  as  well  as 
countries of the region as a whole.
Algeria,  which  participated  actively 
in 
Before  concluding,  I  cannot  but  commend  the 
efforts made by our national authorities regarding the 
recent constitutional review, which seeks to benefit all 
segments  of  Algerian  society,  in  particular  the  rights 
of  women  and  supporting  them  to  be  independent,  as 
well as support for young people in order to ensure their 
effective  integration  into  the  country’s  economic  and 
social development process. Those efforts have earned 
the recognition of the international community for their 
focus on promoting both human rights and stability and 
security. We are honoured by such acknowledgements 
and feel reassured in our global approach.
The  rejection  of  policies  based  on  force,  with  the 
dangers  that  they  entail,  requires  that  we  constantly 
seek,  through  dialogue  and  consensus,  to  strengthen 
multilateral  action.  In  our  view,  that  is  the  best  way 
18-30190
19/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
to  respond  to  the  global  security  and  development 
challenges facing the nations and countries of the world. 
Through its focus on demonstrating the efficiency and 
effectiveness  for  which  everyone  yearns,  the  United 
Nations plays a central role in the endeavour to restore 
the respect owed to it.
The  success  of  the  United  Nations  is  a  success 
for  all.  We  must  work  to  make  it  a  forum  not  only 
for  discussing  our  differences  but  also  for  resolving 
them. Our Organization should be the place where our 
partnerships are forged.
We particularly commend the General Assembly’s 
unanimous acceptance of the concept of living together 
in peace. Algeria believes that failure to live in peace 
is not inevitable. Conflicts, human tragedies, terrorism 
and environmental disasters do not affect only certain 
people and not others. Destiny is a common thing, as 
President Bouteflika said.
We  are  called  on  to  make  the  United  Nations 
a  unique  means  to  serve  peaceful  and  sustainable 
societies. Given our conviction and approach, Algeria 
will in all cases be a loyal and committed partner for 
achieving peace and development.
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I now call 
on Her Excellency Ms. Yldiz Pollack-Beigle, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Suriname.
Ms.  Pollack-Beigle  (Suriname):  It  is  an  honour 
to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  my  President, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse.  My 
country  sincerely  applauds  the  election  of  Ms.  María 
Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés  as  the  first  woman  of  the 
Latin American and Caribbean region to preside over 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  In 
the  course  of  this  session,  the  membership  stands  to 
gain  greatly  from  her  outstanding  personal  qualities 
and wealth of experience as a professional diplomat at 
the helm of our General Assembly. Suriname pledges 
its  unwavering  support  for  her  efforts  to  make  our 
Organization  relevant  again  for  the  entire  global 
community,  in  particular  the  disadvantaged  and  the 
marginalized, including women and young people.
As  we  remember  the  legacy  of  the  late  former 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan, we honour his tireless 
efforts  to  make  the  world  more  peaceful  and  humane 
by fighting against inequality and injustice, combating 
diseases and resolving conflicts with all of the means at 
our disposal, while making the United Nations the focal 
point of multilateralism.
As  honoured  as  I  am  to  address  this  gathering 
that  brings  together  so  many  world  leaders,  I  am 
also  disheartened  by  the  sombre  tone  expressed  by 
Secretary-General  Guterres  in  the  presentation  of  his 
annual report on the work of our Organization (A/73/1). 
As the Secretary-General noted, thetargets set last year 
have not been met. We have to ask ourselves if we will 
make the same appeals this year, with the same attitude 
of “business as usual” with regard to outcomes, whether 
or not they will be effective.
that 
the 
fundamental 
Suriname  concurs  with  the  assessment  of  the 
Secretary-General 
issue 
confronting  the  international  community  today  is  the 
lack of trust among nations. In that regard, as a small 
nation,  my  country  firmly  commits  to  upholding 
internationally  accepted  principles  that  clearly  define 
who we are and provide for predictable actions in our 
international  relations,  thereby  creating  a  climate  of 
trust,  understanding  and  respect.  We  underscore  the 
need  for  a  rules-based  world  order  with  the  United 
Nations at the centre. That is required in order to create 
the  necessary  platform  to  address  global  concerns, 
including  the  mobilization  of  funds  to  mitigate  the 
effects of climate change.
Being a low-lying coastal State, Suriname is among 
the most threatened countries directly impacted by sea-
level rise. Approximately 80 per cent of our population 
resides  in  coastal  areas,  and  our  main  production 
activities  are  also  concentrated  in  that  area,  resulting 
in an existential threat. As we have witnessed in recent 
days, the forces of nature have struck once again — not 
only in our sister Caribbean nations but also elsewhere 
in  the  world.  We  are  being  urged  to  move  beyond 
rhetoric and to take immediate action.
My country is strategically located on the Guiana 
Shield.  My  country  has  an  abundance  of  natural 
resources,  unique  biodiversity  and  an  impressive 
forest  cover  of  more  than  90  per  cent.  Moreover, 
our  population,  including  indigenous  peoples,  tribal 
communities  of  African  descent  and  various  other 
ethnic groups, descends from all the continents of the 
world.  All  express  and  enjoy  exceptional  tolerance, 
religious freedom and respect for one another’s cultures 
and  backgrounds  and  are  equally  entitled  in  terms  of 
access to social programmes, including health care and 
education. We have used that diversity, inherited from 
20/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
our  colonial  past,  to  our  advantage  by  rejecting  the 
divide-and-rule of yesteryear. We are indeed proud that 
our people, coming from various ethnic and religious 
backgrounds, can live in peace and harmony with one 
another, forging bonds conducive to nation-building and 
working towards the well-being of all citizens — both 
young and old.
With  regard  to  our  economic  challenges  and 
policy  measures,  my  country,  as  a  commodity-based 
export  economy,  is  highly  vulnerable  to  commodity-
price  shocks.  The  sharp  downturn  in  gold  and  oil 
prices three years ago and the closure of the century-
old  bauxite  operation  in  2016  have  led  to  a  sharp 
recession and a severe loss of Government revenue. The 
economy  contracted  by  a  combined  8  per  cent,  while 
the  Government  lost  more  than  a  third  of  its  fiscal 
revenue  in  terms  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP). 
That  required  unprecedented  fiscal  and  monetary 
policy  adjustments  in  order  to  stabilize  the  exchange 
rate, reduce domestic demand and re-establish a viable 
balance of payments position. Our monetary authorities 
moved to a flexible exchange-rate regime and sharply 
curtailed credit creation in the country. Since October 
2016,  the  exchange  rate  has  been  stabilized,  monthly 
inflation  rates  have  fallen  to  less  than  1  per  cent, 
and there is no longer a current account deficit in the 
balance of payments.
The  fiscal  responses,  usually  a  more  difficult 
undertaking, began early in August 2015 with a massive 
contraction  in  Government  expenditure  and  increases 
in taxation. While the crisis continued to erode revenue 
in terms of GDP, expenditure was cut from more than 
30 per cent of GDP in 2015 to less than 23 per cent in 
2017.  As  a  result,  the  unsustainable  deficit  of  10  per 
cent  of  GDP  that  emerged  during  the  crisis  years  has 
already  been  reduced  to  an  estimated  5  per  cent  of 
GDP  in  2018.  Looking  ahead,  the  Government  also 
put in place significant reforms to limit the impact of 
future export-commodity shocks. Institutional reforms 
will  help  to  promote  foreign  direct  investment  aimed 
at diversifying our economy, moving it away from its 
heavy reliance on extractive industries. Fiscal reforms 
aimed  at  reducing  reliance  on  direct  tax  income  and 
broadening the tax base are at the top of our priorities. 
The  establishment  of  a  sovereign  wealth  fund  will 
stabilize income derived from the extractive industries 
and help to mitigate the fiscal impact of future shocks. 
The  International  Monetary  Fund  and  international 
rating  agencies  have  commended  those  efforts  and 
predict a continued improvement in the macroeconomic 
performance of Suriname.
Our  efforts  have  indeed  borne  fruit,  and  the 
Government is committed to continuing fiscal policies 
aimed  at  restoring  the  primary  fiscal  surplus.  Those 
efforts to steer us on the right path towards development 
are  hampered  by  obstacles  that  are  unjustifiable 
and  not  of  our  making.  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to 
mention  the  matter  of  Suriname’s  classification  as  a 
middle-income country — an issue to which I alluded 
from this very rostrum last year (see A/72/PV.21) but 
which  remains  unresolved.  Our  classification,  like 
that  of  many  other  developing  countries,  including 
those  in  the  Caribbean,  is  based  on  GDP  per  capita, 
which does not reflect our vulnerabilities. We strongly 
reject  that  unrealistic  classification,  which  disregards 
various  factors  and  creates  great  challenges  for  us. 
It  is  a  matter  that  should  be  addressed  with  urgency. 
Access to concessional financing for our development 
is  critical  to  the  implementation  of  programmes  that 
benefit  all  our  citizens.  Correspondent  banking  and 
de-risking,  further  aggravated  by  unilateral  actions, 
including  blacklisting  and  the  arbitrary  seizure  of 
funds, without due regard for the severe consequences 
to the community, including businessmen and families, 
remain obstacles over which we have no influence. An 
atmosphere  of  trust  and  political  will  is  crucial  and 
should  lead  to  dialogue  and  cooperation  in  order  to 
address all matters of concern.
Although  Suriname  contributes  significantly  to 
the mitigation of the effects of climate change through 
its  high  level  of  forest  cover  and  low  deforestation 
rate,  regrettably,  we  must  acknowledge  that  global 
commitments,  based  on  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities,  have  yet  to  materialize 
in the form of tangible results. Suriname is one of 11 
countries  with  a  high  level  of  forest  cover  and  a  low 
deforestation  rate,  representing  20  per  cent  of  the 
Earth’s  remaining  tropical  forests  and  storing  18  per 
cent  of  tropical  forest  carbon.  Yet  we  are  not  able  to 
fully  benefit  from  global  arrangements  associated 
with  sound  forest  management.  At  the  twenty-third 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  last  year, 
Suriname  pledged  to  maintain  its  forest  coverage  at 
93 per cent. We also made the conditional commitment 
to  sustain  our  leadership  position  as  one  of  the  most 
carbon-negative  countries.  That  pledge,  subject  to 
financial 
scientific, 
technical  and 
technological, 
18-30190
21/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
support,  extends  beyond  national  benefits  into  the 
realm of global gains for humankind. It is against the 
backdrop of that reality that Suriname will host a high-
level  conference  on  climate  finance  mobilization  in 
February 2019. The conference will seek to initiate and 
implement  new  economic  models  of  ecosustainability 
aimed at improving the quality of life for all.
of 
illicit 
drug 
The 
scourges 
trafficking, 
transnational organized crime and terrorism, as well as 
trafficking in arms and persons, place an unprecedented 
burden  on  the  financial  and  human-resource  capacity 
of small developing countries, hampering their ability 
to  implement  policy  measures  aimed  at  achieving 
development  objectives.  Drug  abuse  and  drug 
trafficking  destroy  families,  disrupt  communities  and 
rob our youth of a productive future. Our open borders 
compel  us  to  strengthen  cooperation  with  adjacent, 
neighbouring and other countries in order to effectively 
combat transnational organized crime and its negative 
consequences.  Such  cooperation  must  yield  results, 
and  we  will  join  others  in  the  fight  against  the  world 
drug problem. We need more than lip service today. We 
need to join one another in taking action. Likewise, we 
solicit international cooperation to protect our unique 
biodiversity,  which  is  under  threat,  owing  to  illegal 
poaching and trade in endangered species.
With  regard  to  our  collaboration  at  the  bilateral, 
subregional and multilateral levels, Suriname continues 
to stand for international peace and security. We advocate 
for  dialogue  in  the  resolution  of  any  existing  conflict 
and  uphold  the  internationally  accepted  principles 
of  non-interference,  non-intervention  and  respect 
for  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  Suriname 
respects  and  protects  all  human  rights.  However,  we 
strongly  reject  using  human  rights  for  political  gains. 
All conflicts that arise are a consequence of departing 
from  those  valued  principles.  That  is  why  I  would 
like  to  reiterate  that  those  valued  principles  form  the 
bedrock of Suriname’s foreign policy. In the same vein, 
my country applauds those who have chosen the path of 
dialogue to resolve their disputes. In that regard, allow 
me to mention the rapprochement between countries in 
the Horn of Africa and on the Korean peninsula.
Our geographic location positions us as a strategic 
hub. As such, Suriname has strengthened its bonds with 
neighbouring  and  adjacent  countries  and  with  those 
with  whom  we  enjoy  remarkable  historic  ties.  As  we 
strengthen  partnerships  based  on  mutual  respect  and 
benefit, we seek to advance our national development 
foreign  direct 
objectives  with  a  focus  on  agriculture  and  tourism 
through 
investments,  South-South 
cooperation  and  regional  partnerships.  Suriname, 
with  its  human  capital  as  its  greatest  asset  and  an 
abundance  of  natural  resources,  such  as  fresh  water, 
oil, gold, bauxite and other minerals, maintains warm 
and  friendly  relations  with  many  countries.  We  focus 
on reinforcing existing partnerships and initiating new 
ones. As a result, many friends from all corners of the 
world are seeking to forge durable partnerships, based 
on mutual respect and benefit.
The  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region  has 
not been spared from tensions resulting from existing 
differences  of  opinion  on  various  issues.  The  2014 
Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a 
Zone of Peace has certainly contributed to ensuring that 
there is no room for military adventures. We strongly 
appeal  for  dialogue  where  there  are  differences.  We 
must prevent outside forces from imposing their agenda 
on  us,  which  run  counter  to  our  own  interests  as  a 
region. Let us focus on what binds us and not on what 
divides us. It is reprehensible that some economically 
powerful  countries  resort 
to  applying  unilateral 
sanctions when they encounter ideological and political 
differences.  Such  economic  warfare  does  not  augur 
well  for  solving  disputes.  On  the  contrary,  positions 
are  hardened  with  far-reaching  consequences  for 
regional and international stability, peace and security. 
Suriname  strongly  rejects  such  coercive  economic 
and  trade  measures,  as  they  are  counterproductive 
and  create  an  atmosphere  of  distrust,  rendering  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes practically impossible. 
In that regard, we disapprove of the continuation of the 
economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo  against 
Cuba  and  its  people.  Time  and  again,  the  majority  of 
nations has taken a stand against that embargo. Is it not 
now time to honour the demand of the majority of the 
international community and end the blockade?
The current arms race is deplorable and consumes 
tremendous  amounts  of  resources.  Imagine  what  we 
could  have  achieved  in  terms  of  making  the  world 
more  humane  if  those  resources  had  been  channelled 
into combating disease and hunger and improving food 
safety  and  security.  Who  would  not  aspire  to  those 
sustainable goals? Like many other countries, Suriname 
calls for an end to the arms race, while also rejecting 
the  militarization  of  outer  space  and  research  in  the 
area of artificial intelligence for warfare purposes.
22/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
Multilateralism  remains  essential  for  undertaking 
joint actions aimed at achieving sustainable development 
and  addressing  matters  of  global  concern,  such  as 
maintaining  peace  and  security,  combating  terrorism 
and  transnational  organized  crime  and  addressing 
the  issue  of  climate  change.  Suriname  supports  those 
initiatives,  as  we  seek  to  reinforce  the  validity  of 
multilateralism based on the purposes and principles of 
the United Nations.
We are convinced that the United Nations remains 
the  most  important  body    for  discussing  all  matters 
concerning the international community, with the aim 
of  finding  solutions  and  taking  into  consideration  the 
interests of Member States. It is therefore essential to 
make this institution more relevant by making it more 
democratic,  transparent  and  accountable.  Continued 
efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations  remain  crucial 
if  we  wish  to  reflect  the  realities  of  today’s  world. 
For  example,  the  process  to  reform  the  Security 
Council  must  be  comprehensive,  inclusive,  balanced 
and  consensus-based,  while  taking  into  account  the 
interests  of  both  developed  and  developing  countries 
and  further  promoting,  preserving  and  strengthening 
international peace and security.
The  President’s  priorities  for  the  seventy-third 
session have been noted, and Suriname is fully supportive, 
as we work together to make the Organization relevant 
once again. We have to ensure that our youth is engaged 
and  participates  in  a  structured  manner  in  the  affairs 
of  this  world  body,  recognizing  the  fact  that  they  are 
unique and innovative in their own way. As lead head 
in  the  Caribbean  Community  for  youth  development, 
Suriname wholeheartedly supports the views expressed 
earlier  in  the  debate  advocating  for  the  creation  of  a 
United Nations agency dealing with youth. I expect that 
the  recently  launched  United  Nations  Youth  Strategy 
will be inclusive and deliver on the aspirations of the 
world’s young people.
In  the  final  analysis,  when  Suriname  speaks,  we 
speak  to  give  strength  to  the  voices  of  all  nations, 
whether small or big, developed or developing. We must 
globally recommit to the principle of dialogue and the 
cause of lasting peace. That recommitment, which I call 
on all of us to embrace, is the inherent right to a decent 
life and protection for all who are born on this planet. 
Through our Organization, we have at our disposal all 
the  means  needed  to  take  on  that  responsibility.  We 
have no one but ourselves do that for us.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that,  if  there  were 
no  United  Nations,  today  we  would  be  calling  for  its 
creation.  Therefore,  as  I  said  before,  let  us  decide  to 
focus on what binds us rather than on what divides us.
The Acting President: I now call on His Excellency 
Mr. Vivian Balakrishnan, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Singapore.
Mr.  Balakrishnan  (Singapore):  It  is  a  bright  and 
sunny  Saturday  morning  outside.  I  thank  members 
for sacrificing their time to participate in this debate. 
I  add  my  voice  to  those  who  congratulate  Ms.  María 
Fernanda Espinosa Garcés of Ecuador on her election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-
third session. I also thank my friend Miroslav Lajčák, 
Minister for Foreign and European Affairs of Slovakia, 
for his sterling leadership of the seventy-second session.
The one word that we have probably heard the most 
over this past week is “multilateralism”. Multilateralism 
is  at  a  crossroads.  In  fact,  it  is  facing  a  significant 
threat.  In  recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  a  crisis  of 
confidence  in  the  concept  of  multilateralism  and  its 
institutions.  Whether  in  trade,  security  or  dispute 
resolution,  questions  have  arisen  about  whether  the 
multilateral  system  can  continue  to  deliver  effective 
solutions  for  the  multitude  of  problems  that  we 
face.  I  stand  here  as  a  representative  of  a  tiny,  open 
and  trade-dependent  city  State,  and  Singapore  has 
witnessed this recent retreat from multilateralism with 
grave  concern.  That  is  why  today  I  want  to  raise  my 
voice in defence of multilateralism. There is perhaps no 
better forum for me to do so than the United Nations, 
the ultimate bastion of multilateralism.
It  is  actually  easy  to  understand  why  there  is 
a  resurgence  in  isolationist,  protectionist  and  even 
xenophobic  sentiments  in  the  political  arena  all  over 
the  world.  We  are  living  in  uncertain,  volatile  and 
disruptive times. The digital revolution is increasingly 
disrupting the way we live, work, play, communicate, 
organize and mobilize our societies. Non-State actors 
and  transboundary  threats,  terrorism,  pandemics  and 
climate  change  remain  a  clear  and  present  danger. 
Frontier  issues  such  as  artificial  intelligence  and 
cybercrime have leapt from the pages of science fiction 
into  our  daily  lives.  Our  social  cohesion  is  breaking 
down,  and  all  too  often  we  operate  in  isolated  social 
and political bubbles.
At the same time, the international order as we know 
it  is  being  disrupted.  Since  1945,  many  countries  and 
18-30190
23/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
regions have benefited from the open global system — a 
world  order  that  was  substantially  underwritten  by  a 
single Power: the United States of America. But today 
we are transitioning to a multipolar world, where other 
Powers are quite rightly beginning to assume a greater 
role in multiple spheres. That is a transition that has to 
be managed carefully and delicately.
I  am  not  saying  that  multilateralism  is  perfect. 
In  fact,  we  recognize  that  it  has  not  always  fulfilled 
all  its  promises.  And,  quite  frankly,  sometimes  it 
has  been  oversold  as  a  panacea.  How  then  do  we 
make  multilateralism  work  in  this  rapidly  shifting 
geostrategic  context?  My  take  is  that  every  State  has 
to  make  room  to  accommodate  the  new  realities  and 
find  a  new  modus  vivendi.  Foreign  policy  and  trade 
policy actually always begin at home. Politics is always 
local. We need to achieve a rebalancing in our domestic 
societies and political spheres, as well as in the global, 
international  sphere.  The  global  order  will  need  to 
evolve. Our responsibilities will need to be rebalanced. 
In  this  perilous  period  of  transition,  we  cannot  and 
should not abandon the rules-based world order that has 
brought about unprecedented peace and prosperity for 
70 years.
In fact, the scale and transboundary nature of the 
challenges  that  we  face  today  demand  more  cohesion 
and cooperation, not less. There is a strong case to be 
made for doubling down on multilateralism, rather than 
retreating from it. We need a clear framework of rules 
and norms so as to ensure predictability and stability 
in inter-State relations and commerce. Defining those 
rules through a multilateral process in which all States 
engage with one another as equals is necessary in order 
to build consensus and to strengthen respect for the rule 
of law.
Compliance with the agreed rules by all States is 
not only essential for global stability and for governing 
the global commons, it is especially crucial for a small 
city-State like Singapore. The principle that agreements 
should  be  respected  and  implemented  is  fundamental 
for our survival. Without the rule of international law 
the strong do what they will, and the weak will suffer 
what we must.
For small States like Singapore, we cannot survive 
in such a world. That is why Singapore has always been 
a staunch defender of the United Nations, international 
law  and  the  multilateral  system.  Let  us  take  trade, 
for  example.  Globalization  has  actually  not  benefited 
everyone equally. There remain pockets of poverty and 
hunger in our world. Our people are worried about jobs. 
Unfortunately,  the  conventional  arguments  in  favour 
of  free  trade,  economic  integration,  and  cooperation 
between countries have gone out of fashion.
Today,  trade  frictions  between  the  United  States 
and China have raised the spectre of a trade war. But we 
cannot  simply  blame  globalization.  All  Governments 
of today have an obligation to consider long-term and 
sustainable  solutions,  instead  of  just  raising  trade 
barriers. For example, in order to truly address widening 
inequality  and  wage  stagnation  we  must  address  the 
root causes. In the midst of the digital revolution, we 
must ensure that our people have the right skills for new 
emerging  jobs.  It  is  futile  to  fight  to  protect  obsolete 
technologies and to squabble over yesterday’s jobs. On 
the contrary, we must try to take advantage of the new 
opportunities of the global market to create the jobs of 
the future.
It is therefore our responsibility, as Governments, 
to actively put in place policies to train, retrain, retool 
and reskill our citizens by investing in infrastructure, 
training and education. That is why we in Singapore are 
working  so  hard  to  restructure  our  education  system. 
We are putting in serious money to enable our people 
to continuously upgrade and learn new skills through 
a  programme  we  call  SkillsFuture.  The  emphasis  is 
on  the  word  “future”.  Right  now,  in  Singapore  our 
focus  is  on  restructuring  our  economy,  identifying 
and working with the private sector to transform jobs, 
enhance  our  competitiveness  and  elevate  productivity 
across the board. That is fundamentally an investment 
in our people to make sure that all of us are ready for 
the future.
Ultimately, no country benefits from trade conflicts 
and  protectionism.  The  negative  impacts  will  ripple 
through  the  global  supply  chain  and  will  undermine 
growth and prosperity in all countries. We will all be 
worse off. At this time of increasing interconnectedness 
and  interdependence  we  need  a  multilateral  approach 
and  strong  rules,  now  more  than  ever.  Singapore  will 
continue  to  be  a  strong  and  staunch  supporter  of  the 
rules-based  multilateral  trading  system.  The  critical 
importance  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  cannot 
be overemphasized: it is the ultimate neutral arbiter of 
international trade disputes.
Another  area  where  we  urgently  need  to  promote 
the adoption and implementation of rules and norms is 
24/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
in  cyberspace.  To  reap  the  full  benefits  of  the  digital 
revolution,  we  must  develop  a  trusted,  open  and 
inclusive cyberspace underpinned by international law 
and well-defined norms of responsible State behaviour. 
The 
International  Telecommunication  Union  has 
ranked  Singapore  as  the  country  most  committed 
to  cybersecurity  in  2017.  Yet,  in  July  this  year,  we 
discovered 
that  one  of  Singapore’s  major  health 
databases had been subjected to an advanced persistent 
threat. That was a deliberate, targeted and sophisticated 
cyberattack. No country is immune to such attacks. But 
all  of  us  need  to  work  together  to  prevent  them.  We 
need  to  implement  norms  and  rules  that  will  prohibit 
such  attacks  on  critical  infrastructure,  particularly 
where lives are at stake.
States have always turned to the United Nations as 
the  only  universal,  inclusive,  multilateral  forum  that 
can develop the rules that govern the global commons. 
One example is the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), which provides the global 
legal framework for all activities in the oceans and seas, 
which we depend on for trade, food and resources. Just 
as Singapore strongly supported the UNCLOS process 
in the past, Singapore stands ready now to contribute 
to  the  United  Nations  work  aimed  at  developing  and 
adopting  norms  and  rules  on  cybersecurity.  That  is 
simply another example of the global commons, and we 
cannot  allow  the  tragedy  of  the  commons  to  occur  in 
cyberspace, in the sea or in the area of climate change.
To that end, we support the reconvening of the Group 
of  Governmental  Experts  (GGE)  on  Developments  in 
the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the 
Context of International Security and the continuation 
of its work in developing the norms for States’ behaviour 
in  cyberspace.  Cybersecurity  has  been  a  priority 
under Singapore’s chairmanship of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). At the third ASEAN 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Cybersecurity,  which  was 
held in Singapore just last week, all 10 ASEAN member 
States agreed to subscribe in principle to the 11 norms 
contained in the 2015 report of the GGE (A/70/174).
Singapore is also committed to capacity-building, 
which  we  feel  is  essential  for  States  in  their  efforts 
to  effectively  implement  rules  and  norms  of  State 
behaviour. Singapore will launch an ASEAN-Singapore 
Cybersecurity  Centre  of  Excellence  in  2019.  We  have 
also  partnered  with  the  United  Nations  Office  for 
Disarmament  Affairs  on  a  United  Nations-Singapore 
Cyber  Programme,  which  will  raise  awareness  and 
build capacity in our region.
Our  work  in  ASEAN  is  rooted  in  our  belief 
that  regional  organizations  can  demonstrate  how 
multilateralism continues to be relevant and beneficial 
for people all over the world. As the Chair of ASEAN 
this year, Singapore will continue to work with all our 
member  States  and  our  external  partners  to  ensure 
that  the  regional  architecture  remains  open,  inclusive 
and  rules-based.  We  are  working  with  our  partners 
to  conclude  the  Regional  Comprehensive  Economic 
Partnership.  When  that  is  concluded,  the  Partnership 
will  be  the  world’s  largest  trading  bloc,  accounting 
for  up  to  a  third  of  the  world’s  GDP.  But  our  interest 
is  not  just  in  big  trade  figures.  We  also  want  to  send 
a  powerful  message  that  ASEAN  member  States 
and  our  six  partners  —  India,  China,  Japan,  Korea, 
Australia  and  New  Zealand  —  stand  for  and  are 
committed  to  free  trade,  regional  integration  and 
international cooperation.
ASEAN Member States are also working together to 
leverage the digital revolution for our peoples’ benefit. 
We  established  the  ASEAN  Smart  Cities  Network  at 
the thirty-second ASEAN Summit in April. The Smart 
Cities  Network  focuses  on  ensuring  interoperability 
and the integration of services, and allows cities in our 
region to share experiences and exchange solutions and 
lessons  learned.  We  have  just  concluded  an  ASEAN 
agreement on streamlining e-commerce within South-
East  Asia  so  that  our  businesses  can  market  and  sell 
their  products  easily,  conveniently  and  seamlessly 
across South-East Asia.
ASEAN member States are also committed to the 
peaceful resolution of disputes, and to doing so through 
a  multilateral  process.  In  that  connection  let  me  now 
address  my  friends  in  Myanmar,  and  particularly  the 
situation in Rakhine state, which is a matter of grave 
concern  for  the  region  and  beyond.  The  crisis  is  a 
complex and deep-rooted intercommunal conflict, the 
roots  of  which  go  back  centuries.  More  recently,  we 
have  read  harrowing  accounts  of  brutal  and  shocking 
atrocities.  We  have  to  condemn  all  human  rights 
violations, threats, loss of life and the violence inflicted 
on defenceless people.
We expect the Independent Commission of Inquiry 
established  by  the  Government  of  Myanmar  to  carry 
out  impartial  investigations  expeditiously  and  to  hold 
those responsible fully accountable. We also hope that 
18-30190
25/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
the voluntary return of refugees to Myanmar in a safe, 
secure  and  dignified  manner  will  commence  soon 
without undue delay.
However,  ultimately,  a  political  solution  needs 
to  be  found  —  a  solution  and  process  that  involves 
reconciliation, fairness, justice and better prospects for 
all  communities.  Only  then  can  we  achieve  a  durable 
solution  to  that  complex,  long-standing  problem.  All 
members of ASEAN stand ready to support and assist 
Myanmar in that very challenging and difficult situation.
Mr.  Tiare  (Burkina  Faso),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
We  have  also  been  watching  the  developments 
on  the  Korean  peninsula,  which  is  not  far  from  our 
region. This year, Singapore was able to make a small 
contribution  towards  easing  tensions  by  hosting  the 
summit between the United States and the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  leaders  in  June.  That 
summit, as well as the three inter-Korean dialogues that 
have been held this year, are important steps towards 
the  achievement  of  lasting  peace  and  stability  on  the 
Korean  peninsula.  Singapore  hopes  that  dialogue  and 
the  associated  efforts  and  the  reservoir  of  trust  that 
has  been  built  up  will  bring  peace  ultimately  to  that 
troubled part of Asia.
Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  there  is  no  doubt 
that multilateralism needs to be defended and that the 
United  Nations  itself  needs  to  be  strengthened.  That 
is  the  only  way  we  can  deal  with  the  complex  global 
challenges  of  the  future.  As  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations, each of us has a responsibility to work 
together  and  to  improve  and  adapt  the  multilateral 
systems that we have built painstakingly over the past 
seven  decades.  We  need  to  find  solutions  and  build 
consensus,  so  that  our  people  can  lead  better,  more 
secure  and  more  peaceful  lives.  Ultimately,  a  rules-
based  multilateral  system  is  absolutely  indispensable 
to  our  efforts  to  secure  peace  and  prosperity  for  our 
people at home on this one planet that we call Earth.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Nicola Renzi, Minister for 
Foreign and Political Affairs and Justice of the Republic 
of San Marino.
Mr. Renzi (San Marino) (spoke in Italian; English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  San  Marino,  I  would 
like  to  congratulate  Her  Excellency  María  Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  on  her  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session  and  to 
wish  her  fruitful  work.  Her  long  experience,  both  as 
Ecuador’s  Ambassador  to  the  United  Nations  and 
as  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  as  well  as  her  deep 
knowledge of the Organization, are valuable resources 
for the United Nations.
The Republic of San Marino, which this year has 
taken  on  the  role  of  Vice-President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  supports  the  priorities  of  the  President’s 
agenda, as set out in her inaugural statement (see A/73/
PV.1),  and  believes  that  they  provide  an  important 
and  fundamental  impetus  to  the  necessary  reforms 
concerning  the  most  important  areas  of  the  United 
Nations  activity.  The  San  Marino  delegation  assures 
the President of its fullest collaboration throughout the 
work of the General Assembly.
I would also like to express my country’s gratitude 
to  the  outgoing  President,  His  Excellency  Miroslav 
Lajčák,  for  the  important  work  he  carried  out  during 
the seventy-second session.
My  country  would  also  like  to  extend  its  special 
thanks to Secretary-General António Guterres for his 
energy and determination in leading the United Nations 
and the reform processes of the Organization.
The  theme  chosen  for  this  session,  “Making  the 
United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership 
and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and 
sustainable societies”, is undoubtedly of great relevance. 
It  gives  Member  States  the  opportunity  to  contribute 
constructively  to  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly. 
There is a strong correlation between the two concepts 
that make up the subject of the debate: on the one hand, 
while the United Nations must be closer to the people of 
the world by translating the fundamental principles of 
its global action into concrete results, it is essential, on 
the other hand, not only to defend, but also to strengthen 
international cooperation and our Organization.
Recent  developments  in  the  global  sociopolitical 
landscape  have  created  obstacles  to  the  development 
of  multilateralism  and  are  putting  it  at  risk.  Today, 
considering  the  magnitude  of  global  challenges,  their 
increasingly  evident  interrelationships  and  the  need 
for  Member  States  to  work  together  to  overcome 
difficulties,  it  is  more  and  more  essential  to  adopt  an 
approach based on common and coordinated policies, 
in one word, multilateralism.
26/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
The Republic of San Marino has taken the decision 
to  cooperate  within  the  framework  of  international 
structures  and  mechanisms,  at  the  top  of  which  is 
undoubtedly  the  United  Nations,  because  it  believes 
in  the  strength  of  dialogue,  democracy  and  respect 
for  others.  Indeed,  the  very  peaceful  coexistence  of 
peoples relies on such values. My country believes that 
the  United  Nations  must  increase  its  leadership  role 
in  the  management  of  global  governance,  given  to  its 
deeply  democratic  nature,  its  universal  participation 
and  undisputed  legitimacy.  The  cultural  diversity 
and  traditions  represented  within  the  United  Nations 
are  not  an  obstacle,  but  rather  an  enormous  asset, 
which  makes  it  possible  to  adopt  an  approach  that 
reconciles the interests of the international community 
and  contributes  to  the  attainment  of  human  and 
sustainable development.
We cannot ignore the fact that in recent years other 
forums,  such  as  the  Group  of  Twenty,  have  been  and 
are  now  exerting  a  great  influence  at  the  global  level 
in the management of global governance. San Marino 
is  grateful  to  those  informal  groups  for  the  role  that 
they  have  played.  However,  in  their  decision-making 
process, those groups should be more transparent and 
inclusive  and  should  take  into  account  the  interests, 
concerns  and  aspirations  of  the  countries  that  are 
excluded,  in  particular  the  interests  of  developing 
countries. The action of those informal groups must not 
be in competition with, but should be complementary 
to  that  of  the  United  Nations.  Trust,  inclusiveness 
and  dialogue  are  essential  elements  in  the  support  of 
multilateralism  and  its  ability  to  produce  concrete 
results at the global level.
This year’s theme is inevitably linked to the United 
Nations reform process. That process is of fundamental 
importance  for  the  future  world  balance  needed  to 
ensure  international  peace  and  security  and  must 
remain at the centre of all our efforts. The reforms must 
make the structures of the Organization functional for 
the objectives that it has set for its global action. The 
credibility and authoritativeness of the United Nations 
depend  on  its  ability  to  transform  objectives  into 
concrete actions that have a real and measurable impact 
on peoples’ lives. The United Nations must be closer to 
the people of the world, communicate better and show 
them  the  importance  and  effectiveness  of  multilateral 
collaboration for the lives of all citizens.
In that regard, the Republic of San Marino reiterates 
its support for the reform agenda that Secretary-General 
António Guterres is implementing in the fields of peace 
and security and management and in the United Nations 
development  system.  We  are  confident  that  those 
reforms will improve the United Nations contribution to 
sustainable  development,  ensure  greater  effectiveness 
in the resolution of armed conflicts and the search for 
sustainable peace, and ultimately strengthen the United 
Nations system’s ability to produce more concrete and 
visible results.
The Republic of San Marino expresses its concern 
about  the  increasing  number  of  conflicts  in  many 
parts of the world and supports the coordinated action 
of  the  United  Nations  in  the  fields  of  peacebuilding 
and  peacekeeping.  Religious  radicalism,  terrorism, 
transnational organized crime, trafficking in drugs and 
human  beings,  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  violent 
extremism,  marginalization  and  exclusion  all  pose  a 
threat to international peace and security.
It is essential to analyse the root causes of conflicts if 
we want to promote disarmament and de-radicalization. 
At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  encourage,  through 
education,  respect  for  and  the  promotion  of  human 
rights, the rule of law and access to justice.
The  United  Nations  has  often  been  criticized  in 
recent years for the inability of the Security Council to 
intervene adequately in various conflict situations, in 
particular in Syria. Unfortunately, that has undermined 
the  credibility  of  our  Organization.  The  Republic  of 
San Marino hopes that the Security Council will soon 
be able to fulfil its mandate effectively. In that regard, 
and  in  order  to  support  rapid  and  decisive  action  by 
the  Security  Council,  I  am  pleased  to  recall  that  my 
country  has  joined  the  code  of  conduct  drawn  up  by 
the  Accountability,  Coherence,  Transparency  group 
to refrain from using the veto in cases of crimes such 
as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
San Marino has also joined the joint proposal by France 
and Mexico for voluntary suspension of the veto by the 
permanent members of the Security Council.
In  pursuing 
the  goals  of  peacemaking  and 
sustainable peace, the United Nations must promote a 
strategic partnership in which Governments, the United 
Nations system, international, regional and subregional 
organizations,  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and 
universities  work  together  to  achieve  common  goals. 
The  relationship  between  peace  and  development  is 
clear: there can be no sustainable development without 
peace, just as there can be no peace without sustainable 
18-30190
27/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
development. In that regard, the implementation of the 
2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  becomes 
essential for the construction of inclusive, resilient and 
peaceful societies.
armed conflict; many lose their lives or are kidnapped, 
raped, used as shields or recruited as soldiers. Moreover, 
their schools are often destroyed, as are their hospitals, 
depriving them of their fundamental rights.
Three years have passed since the adoption of the 
2030 Agenda. The international community is working 
hard  to  make  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals 
become  a  reality.  While  progress  has  been  made  in 
the  implementation  of  some  of  the  Goals  and  targets, 
it should be noted that there are strong inequalities in 
the  implementation  of  the  Agenda  not  only  between 
countries,  but  also  within  them.  The  Republic  of  San 
Marino underlines the central role played by the High-
level  Political  Forum  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, 
thanks  to  its  follow-up  activity.  In  that  context,  San 
Marino  supports  the  ministerial  declaration  that  was 
adopted this year by the Forum.
The most difficult and important challenge to the 
achievement of the objective of sustainable development 
is  the  eradication  of  poverty  in  all  its  forms  and 
dimensions,  in  particular  extreme  poverty.  Although 
the level of extreme poverty has fallen significantly in 
the past 10 years, as shown by the data contained in the 
report of the Secretary-General on progress towards the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals  (E/2018/64),  poverty 
remains, nevertheless, the main cause of hunger, and the 
number of undernourished people reached 815 million 
in 2016.
The  Agenda  emphasizes  universal  respect  for 
human  rights  and  human  dignity  and  the  fact  that 
peace,  justice,  equality  and  non-discrimination  are 
fundamental  rights  whose  implementation  becomes 
essential for the construction of inclusive societies.
The principle according to which no one should be 
left behind requires the adoption of specific measures 
to  support  people  in  vulnerable  situations.  The  2030 
Agenda takes into account the needs of children, young 
people, people with disabilities, the elderly, indigenous 
people, refugees, displaced persons, migrants and people 
living in areas affected by humanitarian emergencies or 
in situations of armed conflict. Equal opportunities and 
respect for cultural and ethnic diversity are central to 
the full realization of human potential.
The  promotion  of  actions  in  support  of  children 
and  young  people  is  a  key  element,  since  they  must 
grow up free from all forms of abuse and exploitation. 
Unfortunately, children pay a very high price in areas of 
My  country,  which  is  a  member  of  the  Group  of 
Friends on Children and Armed Conflict, believes that 
international humanitarian laws and human rights laws 
must  be  respected  in  conflict  situations.  San  Marino 
has  ratified  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  the  involvement  of 
children  in  armed  conflicts,  and  it  supports  the  Paris 
Commitments. Moreover, this year San Marino added 
its  name  to  the  list  of  countries  supporting  the  Safe 
Schools Declaration, which is an important tool for the 
protection  of  educational  facilities  from  military  use 
during conflicts.
Only  with  the  effective  and  full  participation 
of  women  in  decision-making  processes  that  have  a 
direct impact on their lives will it be possible to build 
sustainable,  resilient  and  inclusive  societies.  The 
Republic  of  San  Marino  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
the  fight  against  all  forms  of  gender-based  violence, 
as  well  as  all  forms  of  sexual  abuse  and  exploitation. 
The objective of gender equality, the emancipation of 
women and girls, and the full realization of their human 
rights must be achieved. Gender equality must also be 
translated  into  equality  in  educational  opportunities, 
with  particular  regard  to  scientific  subjects,  because 
technology,  science  and  innovation  in  general  play 
a  vital  role  in  meeting  global  challenges  and  in  the 
promotion of sustainable development.
At  the  same  time  —  and  the  Republic  of  San 
Marino  is  particularly  convinced  of  this  —  the  idea 
that sustainable development can be achieved through 
new  technologies,  science  and  innovation  must  be 
transmitted  through  means  of  communication  that 
do  not  distort  the  truth,  so  as  not  to  undermine  the 
very concept of freedom. In that regard, the Republic 
of  San  Marino  is  offering  a  concrete  and  motivated 
contribution,  also  at  the  international  level,  on  the 
theme  of  correct  information  with  the  objective  of 
combating  the  increasingly  dangerous  phenomenon 
of  fake  news,  which  are  deceptive,  uncontrolled  and 
capable of inciting hatred and nurturing prejudices.
The  commitment  of  the  international  community 
must be directed towards all vulnerable groups without 
exception. People with disabilities and the elderly, for 
28/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
example, must be ensured full participation in social, 
economic and cultural life.
The  effects  of  climate  change  represent  one  of 
the  greatest  challenges  of  our  time  because  of  their 
unprecedented  impact  on  our  lives  and,  in  particular, 
on the lives of the poorest and most vulnerable. With an 
average temperature rise of 1.1° C above pre-industrial 
levels,  2017  was  one  of  the  hottest  three  years  of  all 
time.  The  effects  of  climate  change  do  not  respect 
national  borders.  They  spread  everywhere,  in  every 
country and continent. They are increasingly damaging 
national  economies,  communities  and  countries.  That 
is  a  global  problem  that  requires  solutions  that  need 
to be coordinated globally. Moreover, it is essential to 
strengthen  international  cooperation  in  order  to  help 
developing  countries  move  towards  a  low-emission 
economy.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  recognizes  the  deep 
synergy  between  the  implementation  of  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  Climate  Change  and  the  2030  Agenda 
and  welcomes  the  recent  entry  into  force  of  the 
agreement.  Events  related  to  climate  change,  such  as 
drought,  which  generates  food  and  water  shortages, 
have  increased  competition  for  access  to  those  and 
other natural resources. Conflicts are a major cause of 
food  insecurity.  As  a  result,  about  74  million  people 
today are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance.
The number of conflicts has increased over the past 
decade and has led to the displacement of millions of 
people. In 2017, 68 million people were forced to leave 
their  homes.  In  addition  to  persecution  and  armed 
conflicts, natural disasters, such as floods, earthquakes 
and  hurricanes,  partly  resulting  from  the  effects  of 
climate change, have forced millions of people to seek 
refuge  in  other  countries.  Other  disasters,  such  as 
socioeconomic deprivation and the lack of food, water, 
education  and  health,  have  led  millions  of  people  to 
seek their fortune elsewhere. All of that has contributed 
to  an  increase  in  migratory  flows,  which  is  a  major 
challenge  that  the  international  community  has  been 
facing for some years.
San  Marino  has  followed  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  that  led,  at  the  end  of  July,  to  the 
finalization of the global compact for safe, orderly and 
regular  migration,  which  will  be  formally  adopted  in 
December during the intergovernmental conference on 
the  topic  in  Morocco.  Given  its  transnational  nature, 
no country can address the migration phenomenon on 
its  own.  The  compact  strengthens  the  universality  of 
human  rights,  including  the  rights  of  migrants,  their 
dignity, regardless of their status, and their entitlement 
to the satisfaction of basic rights, and their protection. 
Its  objective  is  not  to  stop  migration,  but  to  manage 
it  in  the  best  possible  way  through  strengthened 
international  cooperation.  My  country  believes  that 
the  implementation  of  the  compact  will  bring  greater 
security,  order  and  economic  progress  for  the  benefit 
of all.
The  global  compact  is  a  clear  example  of  what 
multilateralism  can  do  and  shows  its  potential  and 
importance,  in  similar  fashion  as  do  the  recent  2030 
Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and 
the  Addis  Ababa  Action  Agenda.  Indeed,  through 
tangible measures aimed at financing development, the 
compact lays the foundations for a global plan of action.
In  order  to  deal  with  today’s  global  challenges, 
we  need  a  renewed  commitment  to  multilateralism. 
That is possible only through a strong United Nations 
Organization, capable of coordinating, in an effective 
way, our economic, environmental and social policies 
at the global, regional and local levels.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the  strong 
support of the Republic of San Marino for all initiatives 
aimed at implementing the principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Alan Peter Cayetano, Secretary 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.
Mr.  Cayetano  (Philippines):  There  once  was  a 
widow who suffered an injustice. She went to a judge 
and told him, “Judge, I have suffered an injustice. Give 
me justice.” The judge did nothing, so the next day she 
went to his office. Still he did nothing, so she went to 
his  house  during  breakfast  time  and  knocked  on  the 
door  and  said,  “Judge,  give  me  justice.”  Still  nothing 
happened.  Finally,  she  waited  for  him  at  night  before 
dinnertime and still he would not see her. So, she went 
at midnight and knocked on his door and woke him up. 
Finally,  the  judge  went  out  and  told  her,  “You  know, 
ma’am, I do not fear God, nor do I fear man, but because 
of your persistence, I will give you justice.”
We  all  grew  up  with  stories,  anecdotes  and 
parables — stories that give us hope, build our character 
and spark our determination to change the world. We 
are told those stories at home, in schools and in places 
18-30190
29/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
of worship. Thus, we come out of adolescence and enter 
adulthood  with  an  idealism  that  makes  us  convinced 
that we can change the world, that we are here to unite 
and not to divide, that we are here to heal and not to hurt.
That is the same spirit of idealism that we feel the 
first time we enter the United Nations. Unfortunately, 
as time goes by, many, if not most, of us are changed 
by the world. We become victims of pragmatism rather 
than champions of idealism. As things get complicated 
and  struggles  get  more  difficult,  we  are  tempted  to 
simply continue doing what is already being done and 
accept  that  we  cannot  solve  the  problem.  When  that 
happens,  we  settle  for  a  statement  from  the  majority 
rather than a broad consensus on how to actually solve 
the problem.
The  story  reminds  us  that  persistence  is  good, 
but it does not mean that we should be repetitive and 
simply  keep  doing  the  same  thing.  Albert  Einstein 
defined stupidity as doing the same thing over and over 
again  and  expecting  different  results.  Certainly  there 
is  no  stupidity  in  the  United  Nations,  yet  a  tendency 
to just keep doing the same thing seems to plague us 
all. Trying new things is a challenge. It might or might 
not  work,  but  we  should  not  be  afraid  of  trying,  nor 
should we be afraid of failing. What we should fear is 
stagnation — that we as a community of nations end up 
accepting  failure  and  making  ourselves  feel  better  by 
doing something, even if that something is precisely the 
same thing that failed to address the issues or solve the 
problems in the first place.
The good news is that there is persistence in what 
we call hope and idealism, in the aspiration of wanting 
to change the world. We teach our children to love God 
and to love our neighbour. But do we actually practice 
what we preach? So much inhumanity around the world 
has been done in the name of God, and so little is being 
done at times for our neighbours.
We  live  in  a  world  that  is  fast  becoming  bigger, 
but  also  constantly  getting  smaller.  From  families  to 
clans, to tribes to a federation of tribes that we call a 
nation,  now  we  are  but  one  global  village.  And  with 
tools  like  the  Internet  and  social  media,  everything 
is  known  and  communicated  in  real  time.  Nowadays 
we are all neighbours, all members of the same global 
community.  We  rise  up  together;  we  suffer  together. 
Being  connected  to  each  other  all  the  time  has 
transformed the world into a global community, and we 
are all citizens of this world.
Today,  our  social  contract  is  no  longer  confined 
to  our  nation  State.  We  should  therefore  exert  efforts 
to  connect,  to  emphasize  commonalities  and  not 
differences,  to  think  less  that  we  are  Filipinos, 
Americans, Chinese, French or Russians, and to think 
of ourselves more as global citizens, the people of the 
United Nations. Yes, it is true that we need not always 
act  with  a  united  front,  and  we  do  not  always  have 
to act as a community. But neither can we ignore the 
fact  that  there  are  many  problems  that  can  be  solved 
only  by  a  united  global  community.  These  can  be 
issues relating to protecting the environment, extreme 
weather conditions, poverty and inequality, rule of law, 
countering  terrorism  or  violent  extremism:  those  are 
problems or challenges that we can only solve together. 
Together  we  can  find  pragmatic  idealism,  which  will 
give us hope and the momentum to do more.
It  is  written:  “Love  thy  neighbour”.  Migration  is 
a reality. It is a fact. It is something that will continue 
to exist and even to grow. Issues relating to migration 
cannot be swept under the rug, but should be discussed 
openly, frankly and thoroughly. The global compact for 
migration is a huge step in the right direction, and that 
huge  step  will  be  even  bigger  if  we  can  get  everyone 
on board.
Again,  “Love  thy  neighbour”,  we  are  told.  That 
seems  like  a  simple  command,  and  yet  in  a  complex 
world it is sometimes hard to carry out or implement. 
That  is  why  Filipinos  thank  Pope  Francis,  and  we 
thank Secretary-General Guterres and all the countries 
thathave led and stood by the global compact. We thank 
migrants around the world for inspiring us to have the 
first compact negotiated at the intergovernmental level 
to  cover,  in  a  holistic  and  comprehensive  manner,  all 
dimensions of international migration.
The Philippines, under the leadership of President 
Rodrigo  Roa  Duterte,  is  one  with  the  United  Nations 
in  being  uncompromising  on  the  issues  of  the  rule  of 
law,  just  and  equitable  peace,  which  leads  to  order, 
development and prosperity, and the protection of each 
and  every  human  being’s  rights.  As  a  sovereign  and 
democratic country led by a duly elected President, we 
are on track to salvage our deteriorating country from 
becoming a narco-State or a State held hostage by the 
rich  and  powerful,  who  ignore  the  plight  of  the  poor, 
powerless and marginalized.
The  hunger  for  change,  peace,  and  law  and  order 
is genuine. There is passion to improve our economy, 
30/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
so that the more than 10 million Filipinos abroad can 
choose  whether  to  work  at  home  or  abroad  and  not 
be forced by poverty or the lack of quality jobs to go 
abroad to find high-paying jobs at the cost of leaving 
their country and separating from their families. Those 
who stay at home can, at the very least, live a safe and 
comfortable life.
We may somehow and sometimes differ in how we 
express  ourselves;  yet  that  should  not  be  interpreted 
as  turning  our  backs  on  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights.  On  the  contrary,  the  Philippines  and 
President  Duterte  are  instituting  all  of  those  reforms 
so  as  to  be  able  to  protect  the  rights  of  every  single 
Filipino  and  every  single  human  being  living  in  the 
Philippines  —  yes,  the  rights  of  all  Filipinos  and  all 
human  beings,  if  that  is  at  all  possible.  But  in  cases 
where we have to choose between protecting the rights 
of a law-abiding citizen and the law enforcer versus the 
drug lord or criminal who seeks to kill and destroy, it is 
clear that we will protect the former — the law enforcer 
and  the  law-abiding  citizen.  Would  Members  of  the 
United Nations not do the same? Which country, which 
leader would not do the same? Who would not protect 
their citizens and their law enforcers?
Challenges will always be there, but so will hope! 
Hope  leads  to  faith,  and  faith  combined  with  action 
produces  miracles.  The  United  Nations  is  the  place, 
the venue of great opportunity for adding action to our 
faith and for changing the world for the better. That is, 
of course, provided we can transcend our personal and 
sometimes national interest for the interest of the global 
community or, simply put, work for the greater good. 
Faith without action is dead. The United Nations is not 
a  place  to  bury  our  dead;  it  is  a  place  to  rise  up,  to 
resurrect our hopes and to dream of a better world.
The President of the General Assembly, Ms. Maria 
Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, provides us with hope and 
something  to  aspire  to,  as  seen  in  this  year’s  theme: 
“Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  people: 
global 
leadership  and  shared  responsibilities  for 
peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”. Making 
the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all  is  difficult.  It  is  a 
dream; yet it is a dream worth fighting for. The Filipino 
people  will  remain  persistent  in  our  quest  for  peace, 
order,  development  and  prosperity,  and  in  the  quest 
for  a  safe  and  comfortable  life  for  all  those  living  in 
the Philippines. We will continue to have faith but will 
add actions to our faith, and we will continue to love 
our  nation  and  not  only  preach  but  actually  do  what 
we preach.
And finally, we would like to close our statement 
by  expressing  our  sincere  and  profound  gratitude  to 
all  the  countries  and  peoples  that  have  assisted  us, 
stood with us and lifted us up when we needed it most. 
God bless all present. God bless all the peoples of the 
United Nations.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on Her Excellency Ms. Karin Kneissl, Federal Minister 
for  Europe,  Integration  and  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Austria.
Ms. Kneissl (Austria) (spoke in Arabic): I am present 
here in my capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Austria. I extend my greetings to the President and the 
Vice-President of the General Assembly.
I  am  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Austria, 
but  I  would  like  to  address  the  Assembly  in  Arabic. 
Why  do  I  do  so?  For  one  thing,  Arabic  is  one  of  the 
six official languages of the United Nations. I studied 
Arabic at the United Nations Office in Vienna. Arabic 
is a important and beautiful language, as well as part of 
the important Arab civilization.
I also learned in Lebanon during the years of war 
how  people  continue  with  their  lives  despite  all  odds 
and difficulties. That is the secret of life. There are men 
and  women  from  Baghdad  to  Damascus  who  manage 
to just continue with their lives. I totally respect those 
people.  All  of  us  are  the  offspring  of  Adam.  The 
offspring of Adam means humankind. In this Hall we 
have a voice, and we should use it to express the voice 
of  those  outside  this  Hall  who  are  living  in  conflicts 
and wars, especially in the Middle East.
Allow  me  to  mention  the  German  writer,  Bertolt 
Brecht,  who  said  that  there  are  some  in  the  darkness 
and others in the light. We see only those in the light; 
we do not see those in the darkness.
(spoke in French)
I  just  quoted  the  German  writer  Bertolt  Brecht, 
who spoke of those who are in the darkness and those 
who  are  in  the  light.  We  only  see  those  in  the  light. 
Unfortunately,  we  diplomats  often  fail  to  make  heard 
the  voices  of  those  who  are  in  the  shadows  and  in 
misery.  Our  diplomatic  practices  all  too  often  favour 
fine  declarations  over  real  actions.  I  even  dare  to 
say  that  we  indulge  in  a  kind  of  dialogue  of  the  deaf 
18-30190
31/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
when  we  reduce  ourselves  to  a  ritual  of  reading  out 
our  prefabricated  notes.  That  state  of  mind  reflects  a 
loss of the sense of reality. We have lost the sense of 
any  real  exchange  of  views.  When  we  speak,  are  we 
still discussing? Do we even know how to look in each 
other’s eyes?
require us to condemn, in the name of universal values, 
the  use  of  chemical  weapons  in  Syria  and  elsewhere. 
They also demand the absolute rejection of biological 
weapons. In that vein, there is no reason why we should 
not  categorically  prohibit  the  production  and  use  of 
nuclear weapons and explosives.
Albert  Cohen,  a  connoisseur  of  the  League  of 
Nations,  the  organization  that  preceded  the  United 
Nations,  wrote  in  Geneva  his  masterpiece  Belle  du 
Seigneur,  whose  main  character  is  named  Solal,  a 
gentleman  who  works  as  the  Assistant  Secretary-
General  of  that  organization.  Finally,  that  gentleman 
loses  his  post  of  Assistant  Secretary-General  at  the 
League  of  Nations  because  he  forgets  his  diplomatic 
restraint  in  the  face  of  the  persecution  of  German 
Jews  in  the  1930s.  Has  anyone  here  ever  experienced 
the  feeling  of  losing  face  when  confronted  with 
injustice and indifference? The multilateralism we are 
celebrating here is a sophisticated form of diplomacy. 
We  have  a  wide  range  of  instruments:  our  contracts, 
our conventions and our declarations. But where is the 
effectiveness of that multilateralism?
Allow me at this point to pay tribute to President 
Macron’s statement to the Assembly earlier this week 
(see  A/73/PV.6),  which  contains  a  very  interesting 
reflection  on  multilateralism  and  the  rule  of  law. 
For  the  President  of  France,  those  two  things  are 
synonymous. However, multilateralism is often blurred 
in  a  merry-go-round  of  meetings  of  which  certain 
well-to-do diplomats have made a comfortable, subtle, 
interminable  game  that  is  enriched  with  litanies  and 
mantras.
Unfortunately, we are content with this mantra when 
we talk about Syria and Yemen. We become intoxicated 
with  words 
like  “reconstruction”,  “stabilization”, 
“constitution”,  and  so  on.  But  faced  with  all  that,  the 
populations,  the  children,  seek  only  to  survive.  They 
need bread, drinking water, a few hours of electricity 
and a minimum of security. That is why, beyond those 
fine  phrases,  Austria  wishes  to  contribute,  as  other 
countries  already  do,  to  financing  the  demining  of 
Syrian territory. And with regard to the greatest tragedy 
of our time — and here I speak of Yemen — Austria is 
ready to increase its humanitarian commitment.
But let us come back from the action on the ground 
to  the  beautiful  Hall  in  which  we  find  ourselves  on 
this  beautiful  Saturday.  Multilateralism  is  based  on  a 
diplomatic approach to norms, and it is those norms that 
Disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control 
are essential for global security. The fiftieth anniversary 
of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) reminds us of the key role of the rule 
of  law.  Despite  some  success,  the  NPT  has  suffered 
from inadequate implementation. Now, what is the law? 
It  consists  of  binding  rules  of  an  enforceable  nature. 
Like other international treaties, disarmament treaties 
are not of a moral but rather of a legal nature. We are 
convinced that if we wish to really move towards nuclear 
disarmament,  the  ratification  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  is  of  paramount  importance. 
My country, Austria, has been chosen as the seat of the 
organization responsible for the implementation of that 
treaty, and we are proud of that.
(spoke in Spanish)
  The  destructive  power  of  nuclear  weapons  has 
made it imperative that the legal prohibition of nuclear 
war  be  strictly  observed  in  practice.  We  congratulate 
Latin  America  for  creating  the  first  international 
nuclear-weapon-free zone.
We  all  know  that,  according  to  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  there  is  no  just  war.  In  1945, 
the  international  community  set  out  to  save  future 
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war.  Unfortunately, 
the  United  Nations  has  not  succeeded  in  keeping 
that promise.
In  addition,  the  majority  of  Latin  American 
States  have,  as  Austria  has  also  done,  recognized  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. That is a necessary condition for maintaining a 
credible system of international law. Similarly, Austria 
is  a  firm  supporter  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  We  are  celebrating  the  twentieth  anniversary 
of  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  this  year.  The 
establishment  of  a  permanent  independent  tribunal 
for  the  prosecution  of  the  most  serious  crimes  was  a 
historic  milestone.  We  welcome  the  activation  of  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression, 
which has been in effect since July and is an important 
step  in  combating  impunity.  We  regret,  however,  that 
the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court has 
32/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
been undermined by several agreements impeding the 
surrender of persons to the Court.
(spoke in English)
The  main  purpose  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  is  to  foster  trust  in  the  international  legal 
system.  Secretary-General  Guterres  spoke  at  length 
(see  A/73/PV.6)  about  the  broken  trust  that  we  face. 
The  most  recent  example  of  the  importance  of  trust 
and  reliability  in  international  relations  concerns  the 
Joint  Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA),  which 
is  politically  but  not  legally  binding.  The  JCPOA, 
negotiated  in  Vienna,  was  the  result  of  effective 
multilateral  action.  It  contains  a  set  of  political 
commitments and includes, importantly, an independent 
verification system involving the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency.  That  agreement  demonstrates  the 
importance  of  pacta  sunt  servanda  —  agreements 
must  be  kept  —  which  many  of  us  recall  from  our 
international  law  studies.  That  is  a  precondition 
for  mutual 
the 
international  arena.  Preserving  the  nuclear  deal  with 
Iran is a matter of respecting international agreements 
and  one,  in  the  end,  of  international  security.  If  one 
country  that  originally  committed  to  the  JCPOA  can 
walk  away  from  the  agreement  without  other  parties 
to  the  agreement  having  violated  it,  mutual  trust  is 
weakened.  Reliability  is  key  to  peaceful  solutions  of 
conflicts.  That  is  especially  true  with  regard  to  long-
term conflicts such as the one on the Korean peninsula, 
where concrete and substantive measures should follow 
the  first  encouraging  steps.  We  express  our  sincere 
respect for all those involved in that process.
trust  and  confidence-building 
in 
Multilateralism  has  also  failed  several  million 
women  worldwide,  as  have  individual  States.  Gender 
equality is about more than legal provisions. It is about 
daily  practice  in  our  countries  and  societies.  That 
is  why  the  fight  against  discrimination  against  and 
improving the situation of women and girls worldwide 
has  been  a  long-standing  concern  of  Austrian  foreign 
and  development  policy.  Our  focus  is  centred  on  the 
women  and  peace  and  security  agenda,  the  political 
and  economic  empowerment  of  women  and  the  fight 
against gender-based violence, with a particular focus 
on  combating  female  genital  mutilation.  More  than 
200 million women and girls worldwide are victims of 
such mutilation.
Together, we must stand up against that humiliation, 
which  is  a  breach  of  human  rights  and  an  appalling 
violation of the physical integrity of girls and women. 
In  2018,  the  Austrian  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs 
earmarked  more  than  €1  million  to  help  victims  of 
female genital mutilation through surgical restoration, 
as their physical integrity can be restored. Here in New 
York,  I  had  very  constructive  talks  with  the  United 
Nations Population Fund and UNICEF for the purpose 
of  joining  forces  to  advocate  for  the  basic  rights  and 
physical  integrity  of  girls  and  women.  We  aim  to  do 
that  not  only  through  conferences  and  seminars,  but 
also through practical surgical help, whereby help truly 
becomes effectual. Women and children are also among 
the  vulnerable  victims  of  human  trafficking.  Illegal 
migration  provides  daily  illustrations  of  that  tragedy, 
with  which  we  are  familiar  in  the  North-South  and 
East-West contexts.
Vienna  has  found  its  specific  identity  within  the 
United Nations family, in particular in the fight against 
organized crime, corruption and terrorism. Next year, 
Vienna  will  celebrate  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the 
establishment of the United Nations Office at Vienna. 
I  am  part  of  that  generation  of  Austrians  who  grew 
up  with  the  proud  awareness  of  living  in  a  United 
Nations city.
With  this  statement,  I  have  tried  to  depart  a 
little  bit  from  the  usual  United  Nations  discourse.  I 
have  refrained  from  addressing  every  single  issue 
dealt  with  by  the  United  Nations  system.  However,  I 
cannot  conclude  without  endorsing  Secretary-General 
Guterres’  foremost  concern,  namely,  climate  change. 
The  global  energy  mix  continues  to  be  dominated  by 
fossil  fuels,  in  particular  coal.  Scientists  are  working 
on  finding  new  forms  of  energy,  in  particular  for 
transportation. Will we see an increase in electric and 
other types of engines? Innovation, market forces and 
political action will decide.
It is in the Middle East that the major oil reserves 
are located. The States of the Middle East were shaped 
by the oil business in the aftermath of the First World 
War. This autumn, we are commemorating the end of the 
Great War 100 years ago. Let me remind the Assembly 
that, with the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire, the 
new map of the Middle East was shaped by pipelines, 
in relation to which borders were subsequently drawn. 
The recent wars imposed on the Middle East were also 
fought for the sake of oil. Now Syria is a victim of the 
instability  created  by  all  those  wars.  A  week  ago,  a 
ceasefire was brokered in northern Syria for the city of 
Idlib. Five national armies find themselves in a sort of 
18-30190
33/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
stand-off among millions of civilians and thousands of 
terrorists, some of whom are European Union nationals, 
or, as we call them, “foreign fighters”.
The burning issue is how to move from that military 
situation to a diplomatic transition. The time has come 
to  take  courageous  steps  to  launch  such  a  process. 
We  believe  that  there  is  momentum  for  creating  a 
new  dynamic.  We  encourage  the  decision  makers 
from  Washington,  D.C.,  to  Moscow,  from  Tehran  to 
Jerusalem,  and  from  Ankara  to  Damascus  to  seize 
that very momentum. We have a historic chance, and, 
there is no other alternative — according to the Hebrew 
expression — than to sit down at the negotiation table.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French)  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Shaikh  Khalid  Bin  Ahmed 
Al-Khalifa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the 
Kingdom of Bahrain.
Shaikh  Al-Khalifa  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  sincerely  congratulate  the 
President  and  her  friendly  country,  the  Republic  of 
Ecuador,  on  her  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  seventy-third  session.  The  fact  that 
she holds that important position is a reflection of her 
skill and merit. I also sincerely thank her predecessor, 
Mr.  Miroslav  Lajčák,  for  his  valued  efforts 
in 
conducting the work of the previous session in a highly 
professional manner.
I  also  wish  to  express  the  great  appreciation  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  to  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. António Guterres, for his tireless efforts to reform 
the Organization’s structure and enhance its role in the 
fields  of  sustainable  development,  conflict  resolution, 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
and  many  other  human  issues  of  interest  to  all  States 
of the world. Those efforts are tangible and enjoy our 
full  support.  I  would  like  as  well  to  recall  with  great 
appreciation  the  role  of  the  late  diplomat  and  former 
Secretary-General,  Kofi  Annan,  and  his  endeavours 
to  reform  the  Organization  and  work  out  solutions  to 
international  crises.  I  offer  my  sincerest  condolences 
to his family and the international community at large.
Under the leadership of His Majesty King Hamad 
bin Isa Al Khalifa of the Kingdom of Bahrain and with 
the support of the Prime Minister, His Royal Highness 
Prince Khalifa Bin Salman Al Khalifa, and the Crown 
Prince  and  Deputy  Supreme  Commander  and  First 
Deputy  Prime  Minister,  His  Royal  Highness  Prince 
Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, the Kingdom of Bahrain 
is keen to implement programmes and plans of all kinds 
to raise the standard of living and development for its 
citizens and residents, in keeping up with international 
efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals 
and take advanced steps in that regard so that everyone 
can enjoy a decent living and a secure life.
The Kingdom of Bahrain has for many years been 
classified as a highly advanced country with regard to 
human development. It has succeeded in mitigating the 
impact of economic challenges thanks to its economic 
diversification efforts, its fiscal and monetary policies, 
and its investment incentives. That has had a positive 
impact on the Bahraini economy, which is now classified 
by the International Monetary Fund as one of the fastest 
-growing  economies  in  the  region.  The  discovery  of 
the largest oil and natural-gas reserves since their first 
discovery and production in the Kingdom of Bahrain in 
1932 will, God willing, constitute a strong impetus for 
Bahrain’s economy in the future.
As part of the cooperation with the United Nations, 
His  Royal  Highness  the  Prime  Minister  issued  a 
decree  establishing  the  Follow-up  and  Coordination 
Committee  between  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  and  the 
United Nations agencies as an outcome of the strategic 
partnership for the years 2018-2020. An agreement to 
that  effect  was  signed  by  both  parties  to  support  the 
efforts  of  the  Kingdom  to  achieve  its  development 
objectives and the Sustainable Development Goals, in 
line with the Bahrain Economic Vision 2030.
Determined  to  highlight  and  document  those 
efforts, my Government presented a few weeks ago its 
first voluntary national review on the implementation 
of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. That was 
done  here  in  New  York  during  the  participation  of 
my  Government  in  the  high-level  political  forum  on 
sustainable development.
The  election  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  to 
membership  in  the  Committee  on  Non-Governmental 
Organizations  for 
the  period  2019-2022  reflects 
international  appreciation  for  the  policies  pursued  by 
His Majesty the King to strengthen rights and liberties 
and to support common efforts to achieve the objectives 
and purposes of the United Nations. Consistent with its 
efforts  to  continue  its  international  contributions  and 
its  determination  to  cooperate  with  various  organs  of 
the United Nations, the Kingdom of Bahrain submitted 
for  the  third  time  its  candidature  for  membership  in 
the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2019-2021. 
34/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
That  candidature  reaffirms  our  policy  of  enhancing 
respect for human rights and maintaining freedoms, in 
line  with  international  standards  and  building  on  the 
progress already achieved in that field.
Last  March,  during  the  sixty-second  session  of 
the Commission on the Status of Women, nominations 
were  solicited  at  the  United  Nations  for  the  Princess 
Sabeeka  bint  Ibrahim  Al  Khalifa  Global  Award  for 
Women’s Empowerment. The Award aims to highlight 
achievements  in  the  field  of  the  protection  of  equal 
opportunities  for  women  and  men  in  the  world.  The 
Kingdom of Bahrain ranks as a Tier 1 country in the 
report  on  trafficking  in  persons  issued  by  the  United 
States  State  Department  in  June,  making  us  the  first 
country in the Middle East and North Africa to attain that 
high status and confirming the great accomplishments 
of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  in  that  field.  Tribute  was 
also  paid  by  the  State  Department  to  Mr.  Osama  bin 
Abdullah  Al-Absi,  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the 
Labour  Market  Regulatory  Authority  and  Chairman 
of  the  National  Committee  to  Combat  Trafficking  in 
Persons  in  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  —  out  of  a  total 
of  10international  personalities  —  in  appreciation 
of  his  extraordinary  contribution  to  the  fight  against 
trafficking in persons.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  is  always  looking  to 
contribute  to  the  achievement  of  a  more  prosperous 
future  for  the  peoples  of  the  world.  We  are  fully 
aware  of  the  importance  of  alliances  for  preserving 
regional  security  and  for  decisively  addressing  the 
challenges and threats to the stability of countries and 
the development and prosperity of peoples, particularly 
in the Arab Gulf region, which is considered a central 
region in the Middle East and the world.
We 
that  achieving 
therefore  believe 
lasting 
security,  stable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
the countries of the region is a collective responsibility 
that requires building a robust political, economic and 
military  alliance  among  responsible  countries  in  that 
region.  Those  countries  must  understand  the  current 
threats and the requirements for the future while having 
a  genuine  desire,  serious  will  and  wise  policies  that 
make them indispensable countries for shouldering such 
responsibility  in  collaboration  with  allied  countries. 
That  would  help  to  safeguard  the  security  and  safety 
of countries and peoples, and deter whoever might be 
tempted to threaten the stability of that strategic region 
of the world.
That  region  is  confronted  with  many  dangers, 
notably  from  the  regime  in  Iran  with  its  policy 
of  destroying  and  overthrowing  States  and  their 
institutions,  while  supporting  terrorist  and  extremist 
groups  and  interfering  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other 
States. The regime in Iran falsely accuses neighbouring 
countries of instigating events that take place in Iran. 
It  seeks  to  impose  its  hegemony  on  the  region  by 
packaging and exporting its miserable revolution, while 
the Iranian people suffers from its tyranny, oppression 
and injustice. It disseminates an extremist ideology that 
has become a constant feature of its foreign policy, and it 
threatens the aspirations and ambitions of peoples who 
have coexisted for many centuries. We ourselves have 
coexisted with Iran and its friendly people, who have 
an  ancient  civilization.  We  were  living  side  byside  in 
an environment of shared heritage, culture, commerce 
and other aspects.
The situation in the Republic of Yemen is a case in 
point. The Iranian regime supports the militias behind 
the coup d’état in Yemen, allowing them to continue their 
criminal and hostile actions that threaten neighbouring 
countries  through  the  launching  of  ballistic  missiles 
against  civilian-populated  areas  in  the  Kingdom  of 
Saudi  Arabia.  That  has  been  confirmed  by  major 
countries  that  are  working  to  achieve  security  in  the 
region and the reports of the United Nations, including 
the  fifth  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (S/2018/602) 
on the implementation of resolution 2231 (2015). They 
clearly indicate that Iran is the origin of those missiles, 
which constitute serious threats to security and stability 
in  the  region  and  to  the  major  international  shipping 
lanes, the Strait of Hormuz and Bab Al-Mandab.
At a time when it is imperative to establish common 
mechanisms for collective security in the Middle East, 
we are confronted with another source of impediment to 
those efforts, namely, Qatar, whose actions threaten the 
security and stability of the region. Qatar maintains its 
policies and practices, which run against the concept of 
collective security through a dangerous approach aimed 
at  spreading  and  fuelling  terrorism  and  at  toppling 
national  Governments  while  striving  to  destroy  them 
and dump them into chaos.
My  country  was  a  target  of  Qatari  plans,  which 
were  not  limited  to  the  events  of  2011,  when  Qatar 
provided financial, informational and logistical support 
for acts of violence and terrorism. Furthermore, Qatar 
has  throughout  its  history  attacked  its  neighbours 
repeatedly, including our territory in 1937 and 1986 and 
18-30190
35/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
the  borders  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  in  1992. 
We  reacted  with  wisdom  and  foresight  to  prevent  our 
respective peoples from experiencing any harm. We and 
the Qataris are one people. We were once under a single 
leadership,  and  we  are  united  by  origin,  family  ties, 
history, objective and a common destiny. Our relations 
will remain close and impervious to all attempts to stir 
up strife or alter that everlasting reality.
We still hope that Qatar will return to its senses and 
prove its good intentions and desire to become a positive 
member of the region by responding to the demands of 
the Kingdom of Bahrain, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  Arab  Republic  of 
Egypt.  Those  demands  are  consistent  with  the  solid 
basis  of 
law,  good-neighbourliness, 
mutual respect and the respect of the sovereignty and 
independence  of  States.  They  seek  to  put  an  end  to 
the  support  and  financing  of  terrorism  by  Qatar,  and 
to  have  Qatar  implement  its  commitments  under  the 
agreements that it has signed, notably the 2013 Riyadh 
Agreement and its implementation mechanism, and the 
subsequent 2014 supplementary agreement.
international 
The Kingdom of Bahrain is working to put into action 
the  various  frameworks  for  constructive  cooperation 
with  its  partners  and  friends  around  the  world.  We 
participate  effectively  in  many  alliances,  including 
the  Islamic  Military  Counter-Terrorism  Coalition, 
the  Global  Coalition  against  Da’esh  and  the  Arab 
Coalition to Restore Legitimacy in Yemen. We reiterate 
our  support  for  all  initiatives  aimed  at  establishing 
peace and security in the world — particularly in our 
region — beginning with the efforts of the United States 
of  America  under  the  leadership  of  President  Donald 
Trump, the most important aspects of which are to work 
with the countries of the region to establish a Middle 
East  strategic  alliance,  to  classify  certain  terrorist 
groups  that  are  supported  by  the  Iranian  regime  and 
included  on  the  United  States  Government’s  lists  of 
terrorist  organizations,  and  to  implement  the  United 
States strategy vis-à-vis the Iranian regime, including 
the withdrawal from the incomplete nuclear agreement 
with  Iran.  We  express  our  commitment  to  working 
with our allies to support the security and stability of 
the region.
In  that  regard,  we  renew  our  demand  for  an  end 
to Iran’s occupation of the three United Arab Emirates 
islands  —  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser  Tunb  and  Abu 
Musa — and for Iran to respond seriously to the efforts 
of the United Arab Emirates to restore sovereignty over 
its territory and resolve the issue through negotiations 
or referral to the International Court of Justice.
I would be remiss if I did not commend the significant 
role and constructive efforts of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia  at  the  regional  and  international  levels,  using 
its  prominent  status  and  strategic  role  to  consolidate 
international peace and security. The Custodian of the 
Two Holy Mosques, King Salman Bin Abdul-Aziz Al 
Saud  of  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  sponsored  an 
agreement  on  peace  between  the  Republic  of  Eritrea 
and the Democratic Federal republic of Ethiopia.
The preservation of the State and its institutions is 
the main guarantee of the stability of peoples and the 
revival of communities aimed at preventing them from 
falling into the abyss of anarchy and terrorism. I want 
to recall the words of President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi of 
the Arab Republic of Egypt in his statement before the 
General Assembly a few days ago:
the  most  dangerous  phenomena 
“[T]here  is  no  way  to  achieve  an  effective 
international order if its main constituent unit, the 
nation  State,  which  is  premised  on  the  notions  of 
citizenship, democracy and equality, is threatened 
with disintegration....The disintegration of nations 
as a result of civil strife and regression to sectarian 
loyalty rather than national identity is responsible 
for 
in  our 
contemporary world”. (A/73/PV.7, p. 8)
In  line  with  that  consistent  position,  we  reaffirm 
the need for a peaceful solution to the Syrian crisis with 
effective Arab participation and a strong Arab role so 
that  that  State  can  exercise  control  and  sovereignty 
over the totality of its territory and eliminate terrorist 
groups  of  all  kinds,  particularly  those  supported  by 
Iran, such as Hizbullah and others. We also stress the 
need  to  prevent  regional  interference,  which  harms 
Syria’s present and future, and the need to realize the 
aspirations  of  the  Syrian  people  for  a  peaceful  and 
stable life. We welcome the agreement between Russia 
and  Turkey  and  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  efforts 
of  Mr.  Staffan  de  Mistura,  the  Special  Envoy  of  the 
Secretary-General for Syria.
With regard to the Republic of Yemen, the Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  has  been  committed  to  getting  involved 
as  an  active  member  of  the  Arab  coalition  to  restore 
legitimacy in Yemen since its inception. The coalition 
is committed to restoring peace and security in Yemen 
and  to  assisting  the  brotherly  people  of  Yemen  in  all 
humanitarian areas. The coalition is moving forward in 
36/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
its mission to guarantee Yemen’s unity, independence 
and  territorial  integrity  and  to  put  an  end  to  foreign 
interference in its internal affairs, notably the serious 
interventions  by  the  Iranian  regime,  until  a  political 
solution is reached with the participation of all, based 
on the initiative of the Gulf Cooperation Council and its 
implementation mechanism, as well as the outcomes of 
the  national  dialogue  and  Security  Council  resolution 
2216 (2015).
If  we  really  want  to  have  peace  and  security 
throughout  the  Middle  East,  Jerusalem  must  remain 
the historic symbol of coexistence and harmony among 
religions, as it always has been. The continuation of the 
conflict in Palestine is not an unavoidable destiny, and 
the achievement of peace is an attainable objective. We 
must therefore exert further efforts to reach a just and 
comprehensive peace that offers the Palestinian people, 
like all other peoples, the right to a decent life and an 
independent  and  sovereign  State,  with  the  borders  of 
4 June 1967 and with East Jerusalem as its capital and 
the right that guarantees the return of refugees on the 
basis of the two-State solution, in accordance with the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
international  legitimacy.  We  stress  the  importance  of 
not altering the legal status of East Jerusalem and the 
need  for  the  international  community  to  act  in  order 
to  put  an  end  to  all  Israeli  measures  concerning  the 
inhabitants of Jerusalem, their sacred sites and places 
of  worship.  We  also  underscore  the  need  to  offer  all 
possible  assistance  to  the  United  Nations  Relief  and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East 
in  order  to  preserve  that  United  Nations  agency  and 
enable it to continue to discharge its noble duties.
Peace and stability in the Republic of Iraq and the 
maintenance of its sovereignty and the prosperity of its 
people are what we wish for that sincere Arab country. 
We are hopeful that Iraq will resume its leading role in 
the  Arab,  regional  and  international  arena.  We  stress 
the  need  to  put  an  end  to  regional  interference  in  its 
internal affairs, particularly by the Iranian regime and 
its various agents, notably armed militias and terrorist 
organizations  and  groups,  so  that  Iraq’s  brotherly 
people can enjoy security and prosperity.
With  regard  to  Libya,  we  reiterate  the  consistent 
position of the Kingdom of Bahrain, which is to support 
all efforts towards the reconstruction of the State and 
the unification of the military institution so that it can 
protect  and  defend  Libya  and  confront  all  forms  of 
terrorism, preserve the unity and territorial integrity of 
the  country  and  meet  the  aspirations  of  the  brotherly 
Libyan  people 
to  achieve  stability,  development 
and progress.
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  supports  the  sisterly 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  against  the  flagrant  Iranian 
plotting  and  interference  in  its  internal  affairs,  and 
we  stand  behind  the  serious  and  credible  efforts  by 
the Kingdom of Morocco to reach a political solution 
to the issue of the Western Sahara on the basis of the 
Moroccan  initiative  of  autonomy  and  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions and within the framework 
of  the  sovereignty,  national  unity  and  territorial 
integrity of the Kingdom of Morocco.
The  Assembly’s  choice  of  the  theme  of  this 
session,  “Making  the  United  Nations  relevant  to  all 
people:  global  leadership  and  shared  responsibilities 
for  peaceful,  equitable  and  sustainable  societies” 
sends one message, namely, that if those objectives are 
realized,  then  we  would  have  achieved  the  purposes 
of the Charter of the United Nations and attained our 
desired goals. The Kingdom of Bahrain believes in this 
message  and  implements  it  while  it  continues  on  its 
development path. It perseveres in its efforts to enhance 
the security and stability of its people, and will never 
abandon its role in the strengthening of tolerance, the 
values  of  coexistence  and  the  principles  of  dialogue 
between States, peoples, cultures and religions.
We all witnessed the high-level meeting convened 
here  in  New  York  by  the  King  Hamad  Global  Centre 
for  Peaceful  Coexistence  on  achieving  peaceful  and 
inclusive communities in accordance with Sustainable 
Development Goal 16. We also witnessed the Kingdom 
of  Bahrain  Forum,  held  under  the  theme  “Common 
visions  for  a  successful  future:  national,  regional  and 
global challenges and opportunities”. Those initiatives 
reflect  the  State  of  Bahrain’s  policies  and  its  faith  in 
partnerships  and  cooperation  with  the  international 
community, which seeks to overcome all challenges.
A State based on an open and diverse society that 
welcomes all who set foot on its land and live among its 
people offers — and has always offered — a successful 
model to be followed. A State that has achieved all that 
it has achieved within such rich diversity and positive 
openness can only remain faithful to all international 
covenants  and  conventions.  That  is  the  model  of  a 
State  that  cares  for  the  interests  of  its  people  and  the 
region to which it belongs. Its approach will continue 
to be based on the commitment of everybody to good-
18-30190
37/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
neighbourliness, mutual respect and to refraining from 
inflicting harm on others or jeopardizing their security.
As  for  those  who  go  astray  and  revoke  their 
covenant and those who dissent from those principles 
and  frameworks,  the  implementation  of  international 
law  ensures  the  security  and  stability  of  our  States 
and a return to normality for the sake of a stable and 
prosperous  environment  that  consists  of  peaceful 
countries  and  reassured  peoples  in  a  prosperous  and 
coexisting world.
The Acting President (spoke in French): I now call 
on His Excellency Mr. Ezéchiel Nibigira, Minister for 
External Relations and International Cooperation of the 
Republic of Burundi.
Mr.  Nibigira  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French):  First 
of all, allow me to give thanks to Almighty God, who 
has enabled us to meet in the magnificent city of New 
York, which is hosting the seventy-third session of the 
General Assembly of our Organization.
Allow me also to offer the President the sincerest 
greetings  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Nkurunziza, 
President of the Republic of Burundi, who was unable 
to  make  the  trip  to  New  York  and  has  honoured  me 
with the task of representing him. My delegation would 
like  to  add  its  voice  to  all  those  who  preceded  it  in 
this forum to extend to Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa 
Garcés our warm and heartfelt congratulations on her 
brilliant election as President of the General Assembly 
at  its  seventy-third  session.  As  the  fourth  woman  to 
assume that position out of 73 Presidents of the General 
Assembly,  we  have  no  doubt  that  she  will  utilize  her 
feminine  touch  to  make  this  session  a  resounding 
success.  Naturally,  she  can  count  on  Burundi’s  full 
support and cooperation throughout her term.
My delegation also takes this opportunity to pay a 
fitting tribute to her predecessor, Mr. Miroslav Lajčák, 
for leading the work of the seventy-second session and 
helping  us  to  achieve  such  brilliant  results.  We  also 
thank the Secretary-General, Mr. António Guterres, for 
the commendable actions he has already undertaken in 
the short time since he assumed his role at the helm of 
our Organization.
his tireless work and dedication to the cause of world 
peace and development.
My delegation welcomes the choice of the central 
theme  of  this  session,  namely,  “Making  the  United 
Nations  relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and 
shared  responsibilities  for  peaceful,  equitable  and 
sustainable  societies”.  That  is  a  timely  theme,  as  the 
fragmentation and polarization of the world threatens 
the  multilateralism  that  we  desire  and  which  is  based 
on  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  sharing  of 
responsibilities in managing global issues.
For most of my statement, I will focus on the general 
situation  in  my  country,  Burundi,  before  addressing 
the current global challenges, whose solutions require 
concerted responses. At the political level, on May 17 
Burundi organized a constitutional referendum, which 
proceeded  in    a  calm  and  orderly  manner.  That  event 
was  preceded  by  very  broad  consultations  with  the 
population, which enabled them to express themselves 
in  all  their  rich  political,  ethnic,  regional  and  gender 
diversity — and in complete transparency — regarding 
the content of the new basic law.
Member  States  will  recall  that,  when  the  new 
Constitution  was  enacted  on  7  June,  the  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Burundi  informed  citizens  and  the 
international community that his second term of office 
would end in 2020 and that he was ready to support the 
new President, who will be elected that year. Contrary 
to  the  discourse  of  some  who  had  claimed  that  his 
intentions  were  to  shape  the  new  Constitution  for  his 
own  benefit  and  to  remain  in  power  until  2034,  that 
gesture  of  high  political  and  democratic  value  on  the 
part of our President sets a welcome example.
Also  at  the  political  level,  it  would  not  be 
superfluous  to  underline  that  the  spirit  of  tolerance, 
transparency  and  openness  of  the  political  space  is 
continually  being  strengthened  in  Burundi.  That  is 
evidenced by the return and reintegration of the several 
thousand  refugees  and  political  leaders  who  had  fled 
the  country  and  who  can  now  enjoy  their  civil  and 
political  rights  without  any  hindrance.  The  liberation 
of  more  than  2,000  prisoners  at  the  beginning  of  the 
year also formed part of that dynamic of reconciliation, 
social cohesion and political tolerance in the country.
My delegation is deeply saddened by the death of 
the  late  former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan.  His 
death  is  an  irreparable  loss  for  all  Africans  and  the 
entire United Nations family. We pay tribute to him for 
With  regard  to  the  inter-Burundian  dialogue,  my 
delegation  notes  that  dialogue  as  a  means  of  finding 
peaceful solutions to political disputes has become part 
of our culture. Those who ask us to promote dialogue 
38/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
are pounding on a door that is already open. In addition 
to  the  very  commendable  efforts  of  the  East  African 
Community,  Burundi  has  the  Permanent  Forum  of 
Political Parties  — an excellent platform for dialogue 
among  approved  political  parties  in  Burundi.  It  is 
within that framework that all political parties met in 
the north of Burundi on 3 August to informally discuss 
the important issues of the 2020 elections. The meeting 
resulted  in  the  adoption  by  more  than  20  political 
parties of a road map for free, inclusive and peaceful 
elections in 2020. The Independent National Electoral 
Commission, in accordance with the new Constitution, 
was also set up recently with due consideration given 
to  the  need  to  respect  political,  ethnic,  regional  and 
gender inclusiveness.
Regional  dynamics  are  continuing  normally.  We 
have reached out to contacts at the highest level since the 
beginning of the year. Nearby, at the beginning of this 
month, the former President of Tanzania and facilitator 
of the inter-Burundian dialogue, Mr. Benjamin William 
Mkapa,  sent  his  team  to  Burundi  for  constructive 
consultations  with  all  stakeholders  in  the  country 
with a view to organizing the fifth and final round of 
the  inter-Burundian  dialogue  in  preparation  for  free, 
transparent and peaceful elections in 2020.
On  the  security  front,  the  situation  in  Burundi  is 
calm, stable and fully under control, with the exception 
of  a  few  cases  of  common-law  crime.  That  positive 
observation was echoed by subregional organizations as 
well as by the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General 
for Burundi and the Security Council in the 9 August 
briefing  (see  S/PV.8325)  and  the  press  statement  of 
22  August  (SC/13461),  respectively.  That  return  to 
normalcy  in  the  country  made  it  possible,  among 
other  things,  to  hold  the  constitutional  referendum 
without  major  incident,  to  accommodate  a  massive 
return of refugees and political leaders, to host several 
conferences at the regional and continental levels, and 
to host foreign dignitaries visiting Burundi.
With regard to the return of refugees, I am pleased to 
inform you that since 2016, more than 206,000 refugees 
have  returned  voluntarily  to  Burundi  —  including 
100,000  who  decided  to  return  in  2016;  168,000  who 
returned to their families from January to August 2017; 
and  38,254  who  have  returned  since  the  August  2017 
tripartite  agreement  between  Burundi,  Tanzania  and 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for  Refugees  (UNHCR).  That  voluntary  return  of 
refugees is continuing at a satisfactory pace. However, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  its  request  to 
UNHCR and friends in the region to intervene because 
some  host  countries  are  holding  our  exiled  fellow 
countrymen  hostage  by  erecting  artificial  obstacles 
to  their  voluntary  return  home.  We  also  ask  UNHCR 
to  ensure  that  refugee  camps  maintain  their  civilian 
character,  in  accordance  with  the  1951  Convention 
relating to the Status of Refugees and Security Council 
resolution  2389  (2017)  of  8  December  on  the  Great 
Lakes region.
In  that  same  vein,  Burundi  reiterates  its  urgent 
appeal to all countries that host, support and maintain 
the fugitive rebels of 13 May 2015 to extradite them to 
Burundi so that they can be held accountable for their 
actions before the courts. Their long-awaited extradition 
would be a major contribution to the strengthening of 
the democratic principles advocated by the Charter of 
the United Nations and a clear rejection of any attempt 
to gain power by unconstitutional and violent means.
With regard to human rights, Burundi reiterates its 
readiness to work and cooperate with other nations and 
the United Nations on the promotion of the protection of 
human rights in Burundi and elsewhere in the world, in 
accordance with the rules established by the Charter of 
the United Nations. That noble mission will be possible 
only  through  mutually  respectful  cooperation,  frank 
and sincere dialogue among Member States and the use 
of mechanisms accepted by all, such as the Universal 
Periodic Review. The dangerous trend of some States 
to  attempt  to  transform  the  Human  Rights  Council 
into  a  tool  for  political  pressure  and  the  regulation 
of  geopolitics  in  the  South  risks  compromising  the 
objectives  set  by  Member  States  when  the  Council 
was  created  in  2006.  The  drift  towards  the  excessive 
politicization  of  human  rights  and  the  policies  of 
selectivity  and  double  standards  run  contrary  to  the 
principles  of  the  universality  and  indivisibility  of 
human rights.
The  withdrawal  of  some  countries  from  the 
Human Rights Council should not be interpreted as a 
negative act. Rather, it is a momentary disavowal of the 
dysfunction and almost exclusive control of that body 
by  a  minority  of  States.  For  its  part,  the  Government 
of  Burundi  remains  more  committed  than  ever  to  the 
promotion  of  human  rights  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter of the United Nations and resolution 60/251, of 
15 March 2006, establishing the Human Rights Council. 
Dialogue and cooperation based on mutual respect form 
18-30190
39/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
the cornerstone of the Government of Burundi’s policy 
on the promotion of human rights.
With  regard 
to  cooperation  with 
the  United 
Nations,  Burundi  is  proud  to  participate  actively  and 
successfully  in  United  Nations  and  African  Union 
(AU) peace missions. More than 6,000 Burundian men 
and women are deployed in the various peacekeeping 
operations,  mainly  in  the  Central  African  Republic 
and Somalia. The excellent work of our brave soldiers 
on  peace  missions,  who  have  voluntarily  chosen  to 
sacrifice  their  very  lives  in  saving  the  lives  of  others 
far  from  their  homeland  and  in  particularly  difficult 
conditions, must be duly appreciated and commended. 
In  order  to  demonstrate  its  growing  interest  in 
peacekeeping,  Burundi  is  proud  to  have  joined  other 
nations  in  renewing  its  international  commitment 
during the Action for Peacekeeping high-level meeting 
held on 25 September.
With regard to Burundi’s presence on the Security 
Council’s agenda, my delegation would like to reiterate 
its strong appeal to the Council to have the courage to 
remove  Burundi  from  its  agenda.  It  should  be  noted 
that  the  current  political  and  security  situation  in  the 
country is calm, stable and fully under control. It is far 
from posing a threat to international peace and security, 
which is the Security Council’s field of expertise. The 
precious time that the Council allocates to discussing 
Burundi should be devoted to the other areas of tension 
and conflicts that are raging now. Burundi today should 
not be an item on the agenda of the Security Council. 
We  need  instead  the  attention  of  the  United  Nations 
agencies  tasked  with  socioeconomic  development  in 
order to boost our economic recovery.
The 
of 
the 
implementation 
the  Burundian  economy 
Sustainable 
Development  Goals  (SDGs)  remains  a  priority  for 
Burundi. The Government of Burundi has just adopted 
a 10-year plan, the Burundi national development plan 
2018-2027.  The  plan  aims  to  restore  the  structural 
balance  of 
the 
strengthening  of  food  self-sufficiency  and  export 
diversification 
the  promotion  of  agro-
industrial,  commercial  and  extractive  enterprises.  We 
need to develop the energy and craft sectors, build and 
maintain  infrastructure  to  support  growth,  improve 
access  to  basic  social  services,  including  education, 
health  and  social  protection,  continue  environmental 
and regional planning programmes, improve financial 
governance and decentralization, and develop regional 
and  international  partnerships.  The  Government  of 
through 
through 
Burundi therefore calls on all bilateral and multilateral 
partners to consider those goals in their projects aimed 
at supporting the Burundian people and helping us to 
implement our plan.
imposed  has 
With  regard  to  the  unilateral  economic  sanctions 
that  the  European  Union’s  partners  have  imposed  on 
Burundi  in  the  aftermath  of  the  2015  election  fever, 
my  delegation  would  like  to  inform  the  international 
community  that  the  context  in  which  those  sanctions 
were 
fundamentally  changed.  My 
delegation  also  notes  that,  following  the  undisputed 
return  of  peace  and  security  to  the  country,  the  AU 
Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government, held  in 
early  July  in  Mauritania,  adopted  a  resolution  calling 
on the European Union to lift the unjust and immoral 
sanctions  against  Burundi.  At  the  end  of  its  meeting 
in New York on 25 September, the Peace and Security 
Council  of  the  African  Union  issued  a  communiqué 
reiterating  the  call  of  the  previous  AU  Summit  to 
lift  politically  motivated  sanctions  in  order  to  create 
conditions  that  would  foster  socioeconomic  recovery 
in  the  country.  On  the  same  occasion,  the  Peace  and 
Security  Council  of  the  African  Union  welcomed  the 
return of peace and stability to Burundi.
With regard to global challenges, Burundi believes 
that migration issues must be resolved in a constructive 
and  concerted  manner  among  all  Member  States. 
Burundi fully supports the ongoing process within the 
Organization we share to adopt, in December 2018 in 
Marrakech, Morocco, a global pact for safe, regular and 
orderly migration.
We  cannot  ignore  that  climate  change  is  an 
existential threat to the economic, social and sustainable 
development of Africa and beyond. Without immediate 
and coordinated action, it will be much more difficult 
and costly to adapt to the future consequences of those 
changes. Each State member of the Organization must 
urgently  respect  its  freely  made  commitments  within 
the  framework  of  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate 
Change.  In  the  same  vein,  developed  countries  must 
honour their commitments to finance the adaptation of 
Southern economies to the effects of global warming.
The  SDGs  are  a  call  to  action  for  all  poor,  rich 
and  middle-income  countries  to  promote  prosperity 
while protecting the planet. In order to achieve the 17 
Goals  that  we  set  ourselves  in  2015,  two  factors  are 
needed  —  the  political  will  of  all  leaders  of  Member 
States and the availability of adequate and predictable 
40/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
funding.  Particular  attention  should  be  paid 
to 
supporting the efforts of the most vulnerable countries, 
such  as  the  least  developed  countries,  landlocked 
countries, small island developing States and countries 
in post-conflict situations.
The quest for peace and stability concerns us all. 
In that regard, we welcome the recent progress made in 
the search for sustainable African solutions to African 
problems. We welcome the new positive developments 
for  peace  in  South  Sudan  and  the  positive  changes  in 
the  Horn  of  Africa.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  those 
new peace initiatives coincide with the Nelson Mandela 
Decade  of  Peace  that  we  adopted  in  the  political 
declaration  of  24  September  (resolution  73/1)  in  this 
very Hall.
The  lack  of  a  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict  and  the  current  status  quo  are  contributing 
to  insecurity  and  destabilization  in  the  Middle  East. 
The  international  community  must  mobilize  to  find 
a  comprehensive  resolution  to  that  conflict,  which  is 
more than 50 years old. Burundi supports the vision of 
a region where two States, Israel and Palestine, would 
live side by side, within secure and recognized borders, 
in  peace  and  mutual  respect,  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  It  is  the  only 
viable solution.
With  regard  to  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  all 
its  forms  and  manifestations,  Burundi  will  remain 
committed,  alongside  other  nations, 
to  playing 
a  leading  role  in  the  common  struggle  to  build  a 
world  free  of  acts  of  terrorism.  However,  we  remain 
convinced that, beyond the necessary military action, 
an effective fight against terrorism requires combating 
radicalization, which is fuelled by ignorance, poverty, 
youth  unemployment,  illiteracy,  injustice,  humiliation 
and exclusion, which provide terrorism with the ideal 
prey and all it needs in order to materialize and spread 
before our eyes.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to  note 
from this rostrum that the realities and demands of the 
current world require us to adapt our global governance 
to  the  new  challenges  of  our  ever-changing  world. 
That leads us to point out that the revitalization of the 
General Assembly and the long-awaited reform of the 
Security  Council  are  becoming  increasingly  pressing 
issues if we want a United Nations that can effectively 
meet  the  legitimate  expectations  of  all  nations.  In 
that  regard,  Burundi  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
the  Common  African  Position  on  Security  Council 
reform,  as  contained  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus. 
It  is  time  to  redress  the  historical  injustice  done  to 
Africa, the only continent that is not represented in the 
permanent  membership  category  and  one  that  is  also 
underrepresented  in  the  non-permanent  membership 
category of the Security Council.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency Dato Seri  Paduka  Awang  Haji 
Erywan  bin  Pehin  Datu  Pekerma  Jaya  Haji  Mohd 
Yusof, Second Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade 
of Brunei Darussalam.
Mr.  Yusof  (Brunei  Darussalam):  It  is  a  great 
honour  and  privilege  to  be  here  today  to  convey  the 
warm greetings of His Majesty the Sultan and Yang Di 
Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam to all gathered here in 
this Hall.
I express my congratulations to Ms. Maria Fernanda 
Espinosa  Garcés  and  the  people  of  Ecuador  on  her 
assuming the presidency of the General Assembly at its 
seventy-third session. I also convey my appreciation to 
Secretary-General António Guterres for his hard work 
in the service of the international community. I also do 
not  want  to  forget  his  staff,  which  continues  its  work 
throughout the year, not just on a Saturday afternoon.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  join 
others in expressing our condolences to the family of 
the  late  former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Atta  Annan, 
whose  remarkable  service  to  the  Organization  and 
many valuable contributions to advancing global peace, 
humanity  and  development  serve  as  an  inspiration  to 
us all.
We  are  currently  living  in  a  world  with  ever-
increasing geopolitical and geoeconomic uncertainties. 
The foundations and principles of the international order 
that usually guide our expectations are in some cases 
being called into question and in others being ignored. 
For a small country such as  Brunei Darussalam, such 
unpredictability  can  be  daunting  and  runs  counter  to 
regional  and  international  efforts  to  build  peaceful, 
equitable and sustainable societies.
In order for us to achieve our goals of maintaining 
peace  and  promoting  prosperity  and  sustainable 
development, we greatly depend on the consistency and 
stability underpinned by our adherence to international 
obligations and the rule of law. It is crucial that we all 
commit  to  an  effective  multilateralism  that  addresses 
18-30190
41/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
global challenges, ranging from conflict prevention to 
economic uncertainty and environmental degradation. 
In  doing  so,  we  have  to  work  together  in  order  to 
ensure the relevance of the United Nations to all, and 
everybody  needs  to  play  their  part  in  honouring  the 
international frameworks and agreements that we have 
worked so hard to develop together.
One  such  agreement  is  the  2030  Agenda  for 
Sustainable  Development,  which  helps  us  realize  our 
vision  of  improving  people’s  lives  without  leaving 
anyone  behind.  We  are  fully  committed  to  attaining 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs)  under  the 
Agenda, which we hope will safeguard the welfare of 
our citizens for generations to come. In our efforts to 
achieve  the  SDGs,  it  is  imperative  to  understand  and 
respect  the  right  of  each  country  to  choose  its  own 
development path, including the adoption of legislation 
that is suited to its own national circumstances.
A  challenge  for  many  developing  countries  in 
pursuing sustained economic development is posed by 
the uneven growth prospects amid many risks, including 
volatility  in  energy  prices.  Brunei  Darussalam  is  no 
exception. To meet that challenge, we are concentrating 
on diversifying our economy. Underlying those efforts 
is  our  commitment  to  free  trade  and  the  rules-based 
multilateral  trading  system.  It  is  critical,  especially 
during these times of increasing trade tensions, that all 
can benefit from it.
Our  stand  on  that  matter  is  evident  through  our 
participation  in  various  platforms  such  as  the  World 
Trade  Organization  and  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations, which support efforts to facilitate trade 
and  investment.  Our  involvement  in  various  bilateral 
and  multilateral  free-trade  agreements 
is  also  a 
testament  to  that  commitment.  Such  agreements  help 
ensure  market  access  and  strengthen  trade  links  with 
our  partners  within  and  outside  the  region.  They  are 
particularly  beneficial  to  small  developing  countries 
because  they  also  spur  other  forms  of  cooperation, 
including human resources development and technical 
assistance. All of these are vital as we prepare ourselves 
to take advantage of the potential opportunities brought 
about by the fourth industrial revolution.
That being said, we also need to remain mindful of 
the fact that efforts to increase economic growth should 
be aligned with our shared responsibilities to ensure a 
safe  and  healthy  environment  for  our  future.  Climate 
change poses a clear and serious threat to humankind, 
and  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change  remains 
our  greatest  hope  in  addressing  that  global  challenge 
together.  Our  progress  in  meeting  the  economic 
and  environmental  goals  under  the  2030  Agenda  is 
determined by our ability to maintain durable peace and 
stability. The work of the United Nations in preventive 
diplomacy,  mediation  and  peacekeeping  is  key  to  the 
prevention and resolution of conflict and violence.
In  that  regard,  we  appreciate  the  Secretary-
General’s efforts to strengthen peacekeeping operations 
through  his  Action  for  Peacekeeping  initiative,  which 
will enhance global support for peacekeeping missions 
with a view to contributing towards sustainable peace. 
We  truly  value  the  selfless  work  and  sacrifice  that 
our  peacekeepers  show  in  securing  a  better  world. 
Therefore, we are also pleased to join others in endorsing 
the  Declaration  of  Shared  Commitments  on  United 
Nations Peacekeeping Operations, as it underscores our 
collective investment in the success and performance of 
our peacekeepers.
Lastly,  in  building  a  more  peaceful,  equitable 
and  sustainable  world,  it  is  important  that  the  United 
Nations  continue  to  promote  the  rule  of  law.  On  that 
note, we are particularly concerned over the unresolved 
question  of  Palestine.  For  more  than  half  a  century, 
Palestinians  have  been  denied  peace,  justice  and 
freedom. In solidarity with the Palestinian people, we 
strongly condemn actions and measures that blatantly 
violate  their  rights  and  dignity.  Those  violations  run 
counter  to  international  law,  including  the  Charter  of 
the United Nations.
Like many countries, we have been alarmed by the 
developments in Jerusalem and the continued violence 
in the occupied Palestinian territory. We remain firm in 
supporting the call to protect the Palestinian population 
and  to  assist  in  the  creation  of  a  fully  independent 
Palestinian  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital. 
It  is  Brunei  Darussalam’s  greatest  hope  for  Palestine 
that  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other  organizations  will  work  together  to  realize  the 
vision of a two-State solution, in full conformity with 
international law, the Charter of the United Nations and 
all relevant United Nations resolutions.
Our  unwavering  commitment 
international 
norms  and  multilateral  partnerships  is  central  to  our 
efforts  to  advance  our  mutual  aspirations  of  living 
together  in  peace  and  harmony.  A  significant  part  of 
that commitment is our continued support for the United 
to 
42/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
Nations.  For  more  than  70  years,  the  United  Nations 
has been the epicentre of our rules-based multilateral 
system,  where  its  work,  from  advocating  values  of 
mutual respect to promoting development, has made an 
impact on people all over the globe. In spite of that, it 
still faces its fair share of criticism. The United Nations 
might not be perfect, but it is the best hope that we have 
for achieving the future that we want together.
took 
Mrs.  Gueguen  (France),  Vice-President, 
the Chair.
The late Kofi Annan once said that we need to keep 
hope alive and strive to do better. For our part, Brunei 
Darussalam will continue to be a reliable partner and 
a friend to all for the betterment of the United Nations 
and the world at large.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Makhdoom Shah Mahmood 
Hussain  Qureshi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Mr.  Qureshi  (Pakistan)  (spoke  in  Urdu;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  May  I  begin  by 
congratulating  Ms.  María  Fernanda  Espinosa  Garcés 
on her election as President of the General Assembly. 
The  stewardship  of  this  session  by  an  accomplished 
leader of her rank and stature will undoubtedly lend to 
the proceedings of the Assembly greater credence and 
strength. I also commend Mr. Miroslav Lajčák for his 
able guidance during the previous session.
We appreciate Secretary-General António Guterres 
for his exemplary leadership of the Organization, and 
support  his  efforts  to  instil  a  new  sense  of  mission 
and  direction  within  the  United  Nations.  We  offer 
our profound condolences over the passing of the late 
former  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  was  a 
leading light and a driving force in taking the United 
Nations agenda forward into the twenty-first century.
We  also  express  our  deep 
sympathy  and 
the  Government  and  people  of 
condolences 
Indonesia  over  the  damage  caused  by  the  earthquake 
and subsequent tsunami.
to 
seek  the  resolution  of  conflicts  and  the  convergence 
of interests; and a State that will build upon common 
understandings, 
and 
shared ideals.
commitments 
reciprocal 
Pakistan will brook no compromise on the interests 
of the nation, the sovereignty of the State or the security 
of its people. Our Government is keen to pursue a policy 
of  partnerships  for  peace,  security  and  prosperity  in 
our  immediate  neighbourhood  and  beyond.  We  seek 
a  peaceful  environment  to  promote  our  development 
agenda, at both the national and the regional levels.
I stand before the Assembly as the representative of 
a quintessential developing country that has the welfare 
of its people at its heart. Under the leadership of Prime 
Minister Imran Khan, we have begun giving shape to 
the vision of a new Pakistan through a set of integrated 
policies and programmes.
The  world  is  facing  a  moment  of  inflection. 
The  very  foundations  and  principles  on  which  the 
edifice  of  global  order  has  been  constructed  are 
under  assault.  Inequality  within  and  among  nations 
is  on  the  rise.  The  forces  of  protectionism,  populism 
and  isolationism  are  gaining  currency.  Intolerance  is 
ascendant  over  acceptance,  rhetoric  over  reason,  and 
power over principle. Where the world needs bridges, 
we see fortifications; where it needs highways, we see 
blockades;  and  where  it  yearns  for  freedom,  we  see 
cages.  New  forms  and  manifestations  of  imperialism 
are  appearing.  Multilateralism  is  on  a  path  of  retreat. 
Unilateralist  tendencies  are  growing.  Long-standing 
legal  norms  are  being  eroded  for  strategic  and 
commercial considerations.
Dark  clouds  of  trade  wars  are  looming  large 
on  the  horizon.  The  challenges  of  climate  change, 
environmental  degradation,  pandemics,  transnational 
organized  crime  and  sustainable  development  are 
becoming  ever  more  complex.  The  post-World  War 
idealism is giving way, slowly but surely, to a hardened, 
militaristic approach. That trend is not only regressive, 
it is downright dangerous.
Two  months  ago,  the  people  of  Pakistan  voted 
for  change,  reform  and  a  fundamental  shift  in  their 
paradigm of governance. They opted for a Pakistan that 
is  confident  and  compassionate,  open  and  articulate, 
as  well  as  peaceful  and  principled  —  a  Pakistan  that 
will  engage  with  its  neighbourhood  and  the  world  on 
the  basis  of  equality  and  respect;  a  country  that  will 
We  note  with  concern  seismic  shifts  in  the 
geopolitical landscape of the Middle East. As existing 
conflicts  are  exacerbated,  new  threats  have  emerged. 
Competing  interests  of  regional  and  extraregional 
Powers  are  deepening  long-standing  fissures  and 
widening the fault lines, even as the tragedy of Palestine 
continues to fester. In these uncertain times, the global 
18-30190
43/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
community  appears  to  be  on  a  desperate  quest  for 
leadership, a vision and an order.
Let  us  consider  the  issue  of  striking  the  right 
balance  between  the  freedom  of  expression  and  the 
sentiments of a people. Where there ought to be empathy, 
understanding and compassion, we see caricatured, ill-
informed and jaundiced judgments. Recently, Muslims 
across the world were pained at a planned competition 
of cartoons of our holy Prophet — peace be upon him. 
That deeply hurt Muslim sentiments and sensibilities. 
For  its  part,  Pakistan  will  continue  to  collaborate 
with  friends  and  partners  on  the  United  Nations  and 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  platforms  aimed 
at  reversing  the  growing  tide  of  bigotry,  at  building 
cross-cultural understandings and promoting dialogue 
among civilizations.
theme  of 
this  year’s  General  Assembly 
session  is  not  only  apt  but  also  mirrors  the  priorities 
of  my  Government.  As  we  embark  on  our  journey  of 
change and reform, Pakistan stands ready to strengthen 
its  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  family  of 
institutions.  Alongside  like-minded  States,  we  will 
continue  to  be  a  leading  voice  advocating  for  the 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  with 
a  view  to  making  it  more  democratic,  representative, 
transparent and effective. We will continue to oppose 
the  creation  of  new  centres  of  privilege  and  prestige 
in  defiance  of  the  principles  of  democracy  and  the 
core tenet of the Charter of the United Nations on the 
sovereign equality of Member States.
The 
Since  its  inception,  Pakistan  has  been  an  ardent 
adherent to the Charter of the United Nations, and an 
active participant in United Nations processes. Pakistan 
has  served  seven  terms  on  the  Security  Council,  five 
presidencies  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
four  terms  on  the  Human  Rights  Council.  That  is  a 
reaffirmation  of  the  international  community’s  faith 
in Pakistan.
We  have  championed  the  cause  of  the  peoples  of 
Africa and Asia as they seek to exercise their inalienable 
right  of  self-determination  and  wrest  independence 
from the yoke of colonial rule. As we pay tribute to the 
memory  of  the  late  Nelson  Mandela,  Madiba,  we  are 
reminded of the high ideals for which he sacrificed so 
much. The best way to honour the legacy of that great 
leader is to continue to fight the good fight for freedom, 
dignity and equality.
Pakistan remains one of the oldest, largest and most 
active  contributors  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations the world over. Pakistani Blue Helmets have 
laid down their lives in the cause of global peace. We 
are proud of their sacrifices. Pakistan also remains host 
to one of the oldest peacekeeping missions, the United 
Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan. 
We greatly value the Observer Group’s contribution to 
monitoring  the  ceasefire  along  the  Line  of  Control  in 
Jammu and Kashmir.
Pakistan  desires  a  relationship  with  India  based 
on  sovereign  equality  and  mutual  respect.  We  seek 
resolution of disputes through serious and comprehensive 
dialogue that covers all issues of concern. We were to 
meet  on  the  sidelines  of  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly to talk about all issues with India. The Modi 
Government  of  India  called  off  the  dialogue  for  the 
third  time,  each  time  on  flimsy  grounds.  They  chose 
politics over peace. They used the pretext of Pakistani 
stamps issued months ago depicting a Kashmiri activist 
and grave human rights violations, including pellet gun 
victims, as an excuse to back out from the talks.
Dialogue  is  the  only  way  to  address  the  long-
standing issues that have long bedevilled South Asia and 
prevented the region from realizing its true potential. 
The  unresolved  Jammu  and  Kashmir  dispute  hinders 
the realization of the goal of durable peace between our 
two countries. For over 70 years now, it has remained on 
the agenda of the Security Council and is a blot on the 
conscience of humankind. For 70 years, the people of 
occupied Jammu and Kashmir have struggled for their 
right to self-determination in the face of overwhelming 
oppression  and  gross  violations  of  their  fundamental 
human rights by the Indian occupation forces.
Pakistan welcomes the recently released report by 
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights. The report rightly lifts the veil from 
decades  of  obfuscation  and  chronicles  the  massive 
ongoing violations of human rights in Indian-occupied 
Kashmir. It vindicates our position. No longer can the 
excuse of terrorism be used to continue to systematically 
oppress  the  Kashmiri  people.  Pakistan  endorses  the 
United Nations report and calls for the early institution 
of  a  commission  of  inquiry  under  United  Nations 
auspices  to  investigate  and  ascribe  responsibility.  We 
will  welcome  the  commission  to  Azad  Jammu  and 
Kashmir, and we hope that India will do the same, too.
44/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
To divert the world’s attention from its brutalities, 
India  frequently  violates  the  ceasefire  along  the  Line 
of  Control  in  Kashmir.  Despite  numerous  violations, 
Pakistan has acted with restraint. But if India ventures 
across the Line of Control, or acts upon its doctrine of 
limited war against Pakistan, it will evoke a strong and 
matching response.
more  resource-rich  and  developed  than  ours  and  that 
have  faced  the  brunt  of  fewer  immigrants  and  over  a 
shorter  timescale.  Because  of  the  protracted  conflict 
situation in that country, Afghanistan’s security has a 
direct spillover impact on our security and stability. We 
look forward to the safe, dignified and voluntary return 
of Afghan refugees to their homeland.
Strategic  stability  in  our  region  has  been  and 
continues to be undermined. That is evident in various 
ways,  including  by  the  introduction  of  destabilizing 
weapon  systems, 
the  pursuit  of  discriminatory 
approaches  by  certain  States  to  supply  advanced 
military  hardware  and  sensitive  technologies,  and  the 
adoption  of  offensive  force  postures  and  doctrines 
that envisage a conflict beneath the nuclear threshold. 
In  the  circumstances,  Pakistan  has  no  option  but  to 
maintain a minimum credible deterrence. We have been 
advocating for many years now for a strategic restraint 
regime for South Asia. Pakistan is ready to engage with 
India to promote meaningful confidence-building, risk 
reduction and measures to avoid an arms race.
Let me also reiterate Pakistan’s continued support 
for  strengthening  regional  organizations  as  platforms 
for  poverty  alleviation  and  socioeconomic  uplift. 
The  regional  body  for  South  Asia,  the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC),  has 
been  rendered  ineffective  owing  to  the  intransigence 
of  one  country.  We  remain  fully  committed  to  a 
functioning SAARC that can improve the lives of the 
people of the region.
Afghanistan,  and  together  with  it,  Pakistan,  has 
suffered heavily owing to global power plays, strategic 
miscalculations  and  cognitive  dissonance.  That  there 
is  no  military  solution  to  the  war  in  Afghanistan  is 
now a foregone conclusion. It is time to act upon that 
conclusion.  A  negotiated  settlement  has  assumed 
urgency  in  the  face  of  the  worrisome  and  growing 
presence  of  Da’esh  in  Afghanistan.  Pakistan  will 
continue  to  lend  its  support  to  an  Afghan-owned  and 
Afghan-led peace and reconciliation process.
On  the  bilateral  plane,  our  two  countries  have 
operationalized  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  Action  Plan 
for Peace and Solidarity. It lays down the blueprint for 
extensive engagement in all areas of common interests. 
Pakistan has hosted the longest-lasting refugee presence 
of modern times. Our role and sacrifices can perhaps 
be better appreciated when juxtaposed with the rising 
tide  of  anti-immigrant  sentiments  in  nations  that  are 
For  the  past  17  years,  Pakistan,  at  a  great  cost  of 
life  and  resources,  has  been  combating  the  fires  of 
terrorism  and  extremism.  Through  the  determined 
operations of our armed forces and with the full support 
of  our  people,  Pakistan  has  turned  the  tide  against 
terrorism.  With  the  deployment  of  200,000  troops, 
Pakistan has conducted the largest and most effective 
counter-terrorism  campaign  in  the  world.  Peace  and 
security have returned to our cities and towns. In our 
own  national  interest  and  in  line  with  our  national 
action plan, we will continue to strengthen our counter-
terrorism frameworks and regimes.
to  face 
is 
financed,  facilitated  and  orchestrated  by  our  eastern 
neighbour.  We  wanted  to  sit  with  India  to  discuss  all 
issues, including terrorism, that have created violence 
in our cities and towns and have led to tens of thousands 
of casualties among innocent Pakistanis. Pakistan shall 
never forget the mass murder of more than 150 children 
in a Peshawar school, the terrible Mastung attack and 
many  others  that  have  links  with  terrorists  supported 
by India, and we will never forget the terrorist attack 
in  India  against  the  Samjhauta  Express,  which  was 
carrying innocent Pakistanis — and now its confessed 
perpetrators are being allowed to walk free.
Pakistan  continues 
terrorism 
that 
We  wanted  to  share  the  evidence  with  India  and 
the  international  community  concerning  those  who 
supported those acts of violence and terrorism. We have 
already shared that evidence with the United Nations. 
We have in our custody a serving Indian naval officer, 
Commander  Kulbhushan  Jadhav,  who  has  provided 
us with the most incriminating evidence by accepting 
that he, at the instruction of his Government, financed, 
planned  and  executed  acts  of  terrorism  and  violence 
in  Pakistan.  That  is  but  one  Indian  State-sponsored 
official  terrorist.  Many  more  have  been  launched  by 
our eastern neighbour inside Pakistan to create terror 
and mayhem.
It  is  India  that,  in  plain  sight  of  the  international 
community,  perpetrates  State-sponsored  terrorism  in 
Indian-occupied Jammu and Kashmir and in other parts 
18-30190
45/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
of India. It is of concern to the United Nations, given 
the fact that Jammu and Kashmir remains on the agenda 
of the Security Council, and it is a matter of concern 
for the international community, as humankind is being 
crushed  and  human  rights  are  being  violated  all  over 
India, where people have stood up against oppression 
and  occupation  and  demanded  their  fundamental 
rights. It is also a matter of concern for the international 
community  that  India  has  sponsored  terrorism  and 
aggression against all of its neighbours.
The  strongest  antidote  to  the  poison  of  terrorism 
is development that yields dividends. The vision of the 
Belt and Road Initiative is path-breaking and is being 
led by a world leader of great wisdom and foresight to 
create a community of common destiny. It is a global 
common good that is beneficial to all. Our vision for the 
China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is to help translate 
our geostrategic potential into geoeconomic dividends. 
Pakistan  looks  to  offer  the  vital  connectivity  nodes 
linking the Middle East with western China, which will 
afford  Central  Asia  the  shortest,  most  feasible  access 
possible to the sea.
The  challenges  of  our  times  have  enhanced,  not 
diminished,  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
United  Nations  must  remain  the  central  platform 
for  dialogue  and  diplomacy.  In  order  for  the  United 
Nations  to  remain  relevant  to  the  needs  of  the  people 
and respond to the demands of the twenty-first century, 
we believe that the following steps must by taken.
First,  the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDGs) 
must  be  pursued  in  order  to  reduce  inequality  within 
and  among  nations.  We  hope  that  the  Secretary-
General’s  High-level  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development and the Means of Implementation of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, held earlier 
this  week,  will  serve  as  a  catalyst  for  rapid  progress 
towards achieving the SDGs.
Second,  corruption  is  a  grave  crime.  Those  who 
provide safe havens for ill-gotten wealth are partners in 
the crime and equally culpable. Existing international 
conventions  on  corruption  do  not  go  far  enough  in 
addressing that malaise. It is time to return the looted 
wealth to its rightful owners, namely, the people, and to 
hold both the perpetrators and their abettors accountable.
Third, climate change poses serious challenges to 
all  States.  The  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change 
must  not  be  allowed  to  be  held  hostage  to  sectoral 
interests.  Even  as  Pakistan  contributes  minimally  to 
global emissions, our country remains among the most 
vulnerable. Our Government completed the planting of 
one billion trees — a project in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
province. We have now launched an ambitious project 
to plant 10 billion trees across all of Pakistan.
Fourth,  a  rules-based  global  order  is  vital  for  the 
promotion of international trade in goods and services, 
as  well  as  global  nuclear  commerce  and  governance 
mechanisms.  Carving  out  exemptions  and  bending 
established  rules 
interests  must 
be eschewed.
to  suit  partisan 
Fifth,  objective  and  transparent  criteria  must  be 
developed  to  facilitate  trade  in  strategic  goods  and 
membership  in  the  groupings  that  govern  it.  That  is 
essential  for  countries  pursuing  economic  growth 
and development.
Sixth,  the  sanctity  and  integrity  of  international 
agreements must be maintained. Strategic stability must 
be nurtured by policies of restraint and responsibility, 
not by considerations of profits and politics.
Seventh,  technology  and  innovation  are  key  to 
reshaping  our  States  and  societies.  We  must  strike  a 
prudent balance between guarding against the misuse 
of  emerging  technologies  and  facilitating  access  to 
them on the part of developing countries. It is essential 
to  develop  universally  agreed  legal  frameworks  in 
the area of cybersecurity, lethal autonomous weapons 
systems,  artificial  intelligence  and  the  weaponization 
of outer space.
Eighth,  the  dislocation  of  people  in  recent  years, 
primarily  because  of  wars  but  also  as  a  result  of 
pervasive poverty, has energized the global debate on 
refugees and migrants. The deliberations leading to the 
global  compacts  on  refugees  and  migrants  represent 
a  step  in  the  right  direction.  The  true  litmus  test  of 
those  compacts  lies  in  the  effective  implementation 
of commitments.
Pakistan  believes  that  a  new  consensus  on  peace, 
security and development can and should be developed. 
A  new  paradigm  for  universal  peace  and  prosperity 
is  both  desirable  and  achievable.  Pakistan  will  be  a 
willing and able partner to the international community 
in  that  worthwhile  pursuit.  The  challenges  ahead  are 
daunting;  the  road  forward  is  untravelled,  and  the 
route  is  uncharted.  These  times  call  for  deliberation 
and  diligence,  but  also  for  cooperation  and  concerted 
action. They call for a truly united United Nations.
46/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
The  Kashmiri  wife  who  lost  her  husband,  the 
Kashmiri  school  boy  who  lost  his  eyesight  and  his 
future to pellet-gun injuries, the Syrian father who saw 
his  child  drown,  the  Palestinian  girl  who  suffocates 
under siege, and the African migrant willing to risk all 
for a better life continue to look to the United Nations 
for support and succour. Let us not fail them any longer.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call on His Excellency Mr. Denis Moses, Minister for 
Foreign  and  CARICOM  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Trinidad and Tobago.
Mr. Moses (Trinidad and Tobago): I am honoured 
to  address  this  eminent  gathering  of  nations  seized 
with  advancing 
towards 
the  realization  of  international  peace,  sustainable 
development and the well-being of all humankind.
international  agenda 
the 
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  I  extend  our 
congratulations to the President on her election to lead 
the General Assembly at its seventy-third session. As 
we continue to pursue gender equality across all borders 
and spheres of endeavour, her election to the post of the 
presidency of the General Assembly is further impetus 
for  the  global  rethinking  and  acceptance  of  female 
leadership,  and 
the  global 
pursuit of gender parity, empowerment and equality.
towards  strengthening 
Allow  me  to  further  express  the  gratitude  of  the 
delegation of Trinidad and Tobago to her predecessor, 
His  Excellency  Miroslav  Lajčák,  whose  leadership 
helped  advance  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to 
undertake  the  ambitious  task  of  system-wide  reform. 
The reform agenda marks a new, emerging approach to 
multilateral institutionalism and presents an opportunity 
to transform the United Nations into a dynamic body 
capable of better responding to the needs and challenges 
that reflect the diversity of its membership.
This  year’s  theme,  “Making  the  United  Nations 
relevant  to  all  people:  global  leadership  and  shared 
responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable 
societies”, compels us to reflect on the nexus between 
the  Organization’s  ambitious  and  comprehensive 
reform agenda and our shared pursuit of a sustainable 
future for all. The myriad multidimensional threats that 
litter the international development landscape threaten 
our efforts to ensure universal sustainable development 
and the eradication of extreme poverty, as well as peace 
and security and the enjoyment of fundamental human 
rights by all.
The existential threat posed by unmitigated climate 
change  and  global  warming,  extreme  poverty,  violent 
extremism, gender-based violence and the spread of new 
and infectious diseases is one that is best faced together 
as  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  As  the  bastion 
of  international  peace  and  security,  human  rights, 
sustainable development and the rule of law, the United 
Nations, as an institution, is compelled to adopt a shift 
in  its  approach  in  order  to  ensure  adequate,  effective 
and  efficient  responses  to  the  challenges  of  our  time. 
It is on that basis that the Government of Trinidad and 
Tobago reaffirms its support for the implementation of 
the Secretary-General’s reform agenda, in accordance 
with the relevant General Assembly resolutions.
As  we  pursue  the  cost  savings  and  efficiencies 
associated  with  the  reform  agenda,  however,  it  is 
imperative  that  we  not  lose  sight  of  the  foundational 
principles,  values  and  overarching  objectives  of  this 
institution. In that regard, I am reminded of the words 
of our former Secretary-General, the late Kofi Annan. 
He reminded us that, even though the United Nations 
is an Organization of States, the Charter of the United 
Nations  is  written  in  the  name  of  “We  the  peoples.” 
Ultimately, that is the role of the United Nations, namely, 
to  serve  the  needs  and  hopes  of  people  everywhere. 
People must be at the centre of our common endeavour.
Having  recognized  that  far-reaching  truth,  the 
Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  through  wide 
consultation,  developed 
its  Vision  2030  national 
development  strategy.  That  multidimensional  and 
inclusive  development  policy  places  our  people,  our 
greatest  resource,  at  the  centre  of  our  pursuit  of  the 
Sustainable  Development  Goals.  If  we  really  are  to 
ensure that no one is left behind, we must redouble our 
efforts  to  ensure  equitable  access  to  opportunity  and 
mobility for the most vulnerable. Those who have long 
been left behind must now be positioned to participate 
in society as equals.
By its very nature, the scope of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development speaks to the wide range 
of issues that challenge global sustainable development. 
Notwithstanding 
those 
challenges, it is widely acknowledged that asymmetries 
exist  with  regard  to  the  impact  of  external  shocks  on 
small island developing States (SIDS), such as Trinidad 
and Tobago and the Caribbean region.
relevance  of 
the  global 
The  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
the SIDS  Accelerated  Modalities  of 
recognizes 
18-30190
47/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
Action  (SAMOA)  Pathway  as  an  essential  component 
in  the  catalogue  of  development  frameworks  needed 
to  specifically  guide  the  sustainable  development  of 
SIDS.  Accordingly,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  welcomes 
the  San  Pedro  Declaration  adopted  at  the  Caribbean 
Regional Preparatory Meeting for the Midterm Review 
of the SAMOA Pathway in Belize, and looks forward 
to  participating  in  the  high-level  review  summit  of 
the SAMOA Pathway in 2019. Moreover, Trinidad and 
Tobago takes this opportunity to reinforce the principle 
that SIDS continue to be a special case for sustainable 
development,  given  our  complex  and 
intricate 
challenges. As we and our regional partners prioritize 
the unique threats to the development of our people, the 
2030 Agenda provides an important guide in our efforts 
to ensure that none of our citizens are left behind.
In  manifesting  the  intent  of  Agenda  2030,  we 
have come to appreciate the importance of prioritizing 
the  well-being  of  all  of  our  citizens.  In  that  regard, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  our  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) counterparts are taking action to address 
the threat that the high incidence of non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs)  poses  to  our  region.  Those  diseases 
ravage  our  human  resources,  burden  our  health-care 
systems and undermine our development efforts. Since 
the adoption of the Port of Spain Declaration on NCDs 
by the CARICOM Heads of Government in 2007 and 
the landmark United Nations high-level meeting of the 
General  Assembly  on  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable diseases in 2011 (see A/66/PV.3 et 
seq.), Trinidad and Tobago has implemented a number 
of strategies for controlling and reducing NCDs.
Our  2017-2021  National  Strategic  Plan  for  the 
Prevention and Control of Non-Communicable Diseases 
aims to harness the collective efforts of both the public 
and  private  sectors  to  prevent  and  control  NCDs.  In 
that  regard,  the  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  political  declaration  of 
the third high-level meeting of the General Assembly 
on  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases. By raising the standard of living, improving 
the educational and health-care systems and providing 
equal  access  to  opportunities,  Trinidad  and  Tobago’s 
Vision  2030  is  actively  pursuing  the  development 
of  a  resilient,  equitable  and  healthy  society  that 
places  all  people  at  the  centre  of  our  sustainable 
development efforts.
However,  no  challenge  is  more  pressing  than 
climate change. For small island developing States such 
as Trinidad and Tobago, casting doubt on the scientific 
truth behind climate change only serves to distract and 
delay the urgent and ambitious action that is needed to 
confront the existential threat posed by global warming.
Earlier  this  year,  the  Government  of  Trinidad 
and  Tobago  deposited  its  instrument  of  ratification 
to  the  Paris  Agreement  on  Climate  Change,  thereby 
formalizing its steadfast commitment to the principles 
and goals of the Agreement. As our national contribution 
to  achieving  the  overarching  objectives  of  the  Paris 
Agreement,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  committed  to 
reducing  cumulative  greenhouse-gas  emissions  from 
industry, power generation and the transport sector by 
15 per cent by the year 2030.
As  a  State  party  to  the  agreement,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  will  be  actively  engaged  in  the  negotiating 
process  within  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  which  seeks  to  operationalize  the  Paris 
Agreement  on  a  scale  that  will  result  in  achieving 
the  long-term  temperature  goal  and  further  limit  the 
increase  in  global  temperature  to  1.5°C.  It  is  also 
hoped that the operationalization process will catalyse 
international cooperation on mitigation, adaptation and 
climate finance to that end.
to 
the  Paris  Agreement 
reflects  Trinidad  and  Tobago’s  assumption  of  overall 
responsibility to support international efforts to tackle 
shared  environmental  challenges,  which 
include 
climate change, ozone depletion, land degradation, the 
loss of biodiversity, the illegal trade in wildlife and the 
movement of hazardous waste.
Our  commitment 
As  a  twin-island  State,  the  conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  oceans,  seas  and  marine  resources 
is critically important to the development priorities of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago.  However,  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
is  located  in  a  region  that  is  highly  vulnerable  to  an 
unprecedented  rate  of  loss  of  marine  biodiversity 
and  to  the  impact  of  unsustainable  practices  on  the 
marine environment.
We  therefore  welcome  the  first  session  of  the 
intergovernmental  conference  that  seeks  to  develop  a 
legally  binding  instrument  under  the  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea on the conservation 
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity 
beyond areas of national jurisdiction. The Government 
of Trinidad and Tobago looks forward to participating 
in future sessions of the intergovernmental conference 
48/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
in  2019  and  2020,  which  will  draft  the  text  of  the 
instrument that will ensure the protection and sustainable 
management of the common heritage of humankind for 
the benefit of present and future generations.
Governments,  international  organizations  and  civil 
society ─ one that is in compliance with international 
obligations under the Charter of the United Nations and 
international law.
One  of  the  pressing  challenges  facing  the  region 
is  the  termination  of  correspondent  banking  relations 
and  the  labelling  of  countries  in  the  region  as 
non-cooperative  tax  jurisdictions.  Those  actions  have 
severely destabilized the financial sectors of the region 
without  due  consideration  having  been  given  to  the 
financial, human and technical constraints confronting 
our member countries.
As  a  result,  the  region’s  efforts  to  bolster  our 
economic stability and effectively engage in the global 
financial  system  have  been  stymied  to  the  detriment 
of  our  economic  growth  and  progress.  That  has  the 
potential  to  further  erode  the  development  gains 
achieved thus far. In that regard, Trinidad and Tobago 
joins with other CARICOM member States in reiterating 
our commitment to ensuring compliance with globally 
accepted  standards  and  calls  on  our  international 
partners to engage constructively on that issue.
In  our  collective  journey  towards  sustainable 
development, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago 
is fully convinced that the United Nations development 
system will, for the foreseeable future, remain a reliable 
partner in assisting our country in its efforts to achieve 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  and  our  Vision 
2030 national development strategy.
With that in mind, the Government of Trinidad and 
Tobago  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to 
reposition  the  United  Nations  development  system  in 
order better to support the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda  and  the  SAMOA  Pathway,  including  through 
a  reinvigorated  resident  coordinator  system.  Trinidad 
and Tobago reiterates the importance of ensuring that 
the development system adopts a more responsive and 
flexible  approach  to  development  assistance,  based 
on  national  priorities  and  needs,  while  strengthening 
national ownership and leadership.
The  United  Nations  has  long  recognized  the 
interconnectedness  between  peace  and  development 
─  a  symbiotic  relationship,  where  one  cannot  exist 
without the other. Ongoing conflicts across the world 
serve  as  stark  reminders  of  the  need  to  promote  a 
positive, dynamic and participatory international peace 
and  security  architecture  that  is  based  on  the  spirit 
of  mutual  understanding  and  cooperation  between 
The illegal trade in arms continues to affect the social 
and economic fabric of the Caribbean region, including 
Trinidad  and  Tobago.  That  is  particularly  true  of  the 
trade in small arms and light weapons, which is linked 
to other transnational organized crimes, such as drug 
trafficking.  It  threatens  the  livelihood  of  our  people, 
undermines the rule of law and challenges our efforts 
to ensure a peaceful, equitable and sustainable country.
At  the  global  level,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  fully 
subscribes  to  the  object  and  purpose  of  the  Arms 
Trade Treaty, which can be leveraged as a mechanism 
for  reducing  the  incidence  of  armed  violence  in 
the  region.  Thus,  since  2010,  Trinidad  and  Tobago 
has  presented  the  biennial  resolution  on  women, 
disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control, which 
encourages  women’s  participation  in  disarmament 
decision-making processes.
On  the  issue  of  denuclearization,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  resolutely  believes  that  the  use  or  the  threat 
of use of nuclear weapons constitutes a crime against 
humanity and a violation of international law, including 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  therefore 
remains  firm  in  its  support  for  the  full  and  effective 
implementation  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Prohibition  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  and  is  actively  considering  its 
signature and ratification.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  long  recognized  that 
international peace and security must be supported by a 
robust international legal system, including international 
criminal  justice.  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  through  the 
work of our former Prime Minister and President, the 
late Arthur Robinson, was at the vanguard of efforts to 
establish  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  two 
decades  ago.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains  a  fervent 
advocate of the Court, underscoring its importance and 
legitimacy in various forums. We stand resolute in our 
commitment to support the mandate of the ICC and to 
promote the universality of the Rome Statue.
The  delegation  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  wishes 
to  make  the  point  that,  consistent  with  the  principle 
of  complementarity  enshrined  in  the  Rome  Statute, 
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  is  invoked  only  when  States 
are unable or unwilling to prosecute those accused of 
18-30190
49/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
committing the most serious crimes of concern to the 
international community. At the adoption of the Rome 
Statute in June 1998, the late Kofi Annan stated that:
“Gradually the world has come to realize that 
relying  on  each  State  or  army  to  punish  its  own 
transgressors  is  not  enough.  When  crimes  are 
committed on such a scale, we know that the State 
lacks either the power or the will to stop them.”
Therefore,  no  individual  or  State  that  demonstrates 
full  respect  for  international  humanitarian  law  and 
international  human  rights  need  fear  the  ICC.  Those 
who fail to cooperate with the Court are contributing 
to a culture of impunity that undermines the rule of law 
and denies justice to victims of heinous crimes.
Our  best  efforts  to  strengthen  multilateral  peace 
and  security  will  surely  fall  short  unless  there  is  real 
and significant reform of the Security Council. While 
we welcome the continuation of the intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform, Trinidad and 
Tobago remains concerned that such discussions have 
not resulted in tangible progress towards a text-based 
negotiation. Trinidad and Tobago urges the international 
community to work collaboratively towards reforming 
the  Security  Council  so  that  it  can  better  address 
current realities and challenges, including those faced 
by  small  island  developing  States,  and  so  that  it  can 
improve the effectiveness and credibility of the United 
Nations  with  regard  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
international security.
This  year,  the  world  has  witnessed  the  unifying 
power  of  dialogue  and  understanding  with  the  recent 
Panmunjom  Declaration  for  Peace,  Prosperity  and 
the  Unification  of  the  Korean  Peninsula  between 
the  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains 
optimistic  that  that  historic  milestone  will  usher  in  a 
new era of peace, cooperation and the denuclearization 
of the Korean peninsula.
Despite  that  positive  development,  we  must  note 
that. in our own region, the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo against Cuba continues to stand as 
the  last  vestige  of  the  Cold  War.  In  keeping  with  its 
commitment to the Charter of the United Nations, and 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which 
calls for no one to be left behind, the Government of 
Trinidad and Tobago reaffirms its persistent call for the 
termination of the economic, commercial and financial 
embargo against Cuba as soon as possible.
At the heart of our sovereign nations, our cultures 
and  our  languages  lie  individual  beings  who,  at  their 
very  core,  seek  a  life  of  purpose,  happiness  and  the 
opportunity to live in peace and prosperity. The challenge 
of our time is to pursue and achieve a sustainable future 
for all in the face of burgeoning threats to our shared 
humanity,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  threats 
posed  by  extreme  poverty,  rising  inequality,  climate 
change and protracted conflicts. Facing that challenge 
requires  deepened  partnerships,  meaningful  dialogue 
and  an  appropriate  review  of  established  mechanisms 
and  institutions  that  can,  if  reformed,  exponentially 
improve our ability to transform lives globally.
to 
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago remains 
unequivocally  committed 
the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and to 
the achievement of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development. We commit to continuing 
to work in good faith with the United Nations, which 
has long stood as the cornerstone of multilateralism in 
the face of unprecedented challenges and threats facing 
humanity, while ensuring that no one is left behind.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Highness  Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al 
Nahyan, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International 
Cooperation of the United Arab Emirates.
Sheikh Al Nahyan (United Arab Emirates) (spoke 
in Arabic): At the outset, I would like to congratulate 
the President on her election to preside over the General 
Assembly at its seventy-third session. I would also like 
to thank her predecessor for his outstanding work during 
the previous session. Finally, I also want to convey my 
country’s  appreciation  of  the  valuable  efforts  being 
made by Secretary-General António Guterres.
This year, the United Arab Emirates is celebrating 
the centennial of the birth of the late Sheikh Zayed Bin 
Sultan Al Nahyan, the founder of our union and a leader 
whose  vision  entrenched  the  basis  and  values  of  the 
noble humanity in my country and transformed it into 
a successful political, economic and social model. As 
we celebrate the centennial of the birth of our founding 
leader,  we  realize  that  we  are  not  isolated  from  our 
surroundings  and  that  our  success  has  increased  our 
humanitarian  responsibilities  as  an  Arab  country 
towards a region that faces numerous challenges.
Over the past few years, we have witnessed major 
changes  in  the  international  order,  the  consequences 
of which are becoming more apparent each day, most 
50/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
notably the rise of armed terrorist groups that rely on 
extremist ideologies and seek to destabilize and control 
countries. What is even more dangerous is the support 
that rogue States are providing to such groups.
Amid  those  dangerous  challenges,  which  affect 
the security and stability of every State, especially in 
our region, it has become imperative for us to be more 
active in maintaining regional security by strengthening 
partnerships aimed at addressing current challenges. We 
realize that we cannot continue to rely on other States 
to  solve  the  crises  in  our  region.  No  single  country, 
regardless of its capabilities, can alone restore security 
and  stability,  because  confronting  the  transnational 
challenges that we face is a collective responsibility.
In our endeavour to achieve regional security and 
stability,  my  country  has  followed  a  comprehensive 
approach that addresses the various dimensions of the 
threats in our region, which we believe can be summed 
up as the following four challenges. The first challenge 
is foreign interference in the affairs of the Arab world. 
Certain countries of the region, particularly Iran, seek 
to  undermine  the  security  of  the  region  by  spreading 
chaos, violence and sectarianism. Iran’s interference in 
Arab affairs has reached an unprecedented level. Ever 
since those threats reached Yemen and the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia, which is a sister to all of us, we can no 
longer afford to remain mere spectators. The Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia continues to be subjected to a barrage 
of Iranian ballistic missiles.
in 
the  region 
The  security  of  countries 
is 
interdependent,  and  our  security  is  tied  to  that  of  the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. That is why we responded by 
joining  the  coalition  to  support  legitimacy  in  Yemen, 
which  seeks  to  put  an  end  to  the  Houthi  coup  and 
confront Iran’s interference. It is critical in that regard 
to  differentiate  between  the  behaviour  of  illegitimate 
armed  groups  that  are  committing  serious  violations 
and  criminal  and  subversive  acts  in  Yemen,  such  as 
the  Houthis,  and  the  legitimate  measures  taken  by 
the  coalition,  which  was  formed  at  the  request  of  the 
legitimate  Yemeni  Government.  The  coalition’s  goal 
is  to  restore  stability  by  taking  measured  steps  that 
take  into  account  humanitarian  aspects  and  are  in 
accordance with Security Council resolutions.
Despite  the  coalition’s  tireless  efforts  to  restore 
stability  in  Yemen  and  alleviate  the  suffering  of  its 
people,  the  intransigence  of  the  Houthis  in  resisting 
serious  peace  initiatives,  as  proved  by  their  absence 
from  the  recent  Geneva  talks,  has  exacerbated  the 
humanitarian situation in Yemen. The Houthis continue 
to  obstruct  humanitarian  assistance  and  to  receive 
Iranian arms, plant landmines and recruit children. In 
the light of those serious developments, the forces of the 
coalition to support legitimacy in Yemen launched their 
military operations in Yemen to liberate Al-Hudaydah 
from  the  grip  of  the  Houthis  in  order  to  achieve  a 
strategic  shift  that  would  enhance  the  prospects  for 
reaching  a  political  solution.  As  the  coalition  carries 
out  its  operations  in  Al-Hudaydah  and  other  areas  in 
Yemen,  the  humanitarian  aspects  have  always  been 
taken into account. Hence, the Al-Hudaydah operation 
was  planned  and  implemented  in  accordance  with 
our  obligations  under  international  law.  We  have  also 
strengthened  and  expanded  our  humanitarian  aid  and 
emergency relief.
At  the  same  time  as  we  are  acting  to  counter  the 
Houthis in the north of Yemen, my country will continue 
its  fight  against  Al-Qaida  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula. 
That  terrorist  group  was  severely  impacted  after  the 
coalition  to  support  legitimacy  in  Yemen  was  able  to 
severely damage its forces, cut off its sources of finance 
and liberate the territories that were under its control.
Mistrust in Iran’s intentions and concerns regarding 
its regional ambitions are not limited to our region. Those 
concerns  were  also  reflected  in  the  decision  taken  by 
the United States to withdraw from the Iranian nuclear 
agreement  and  to  reimpose  sanctions  on  Iran,  which 
has never ceased its aggressive behaviour in the region 
or abandoned its intention to develop weapons of mass 
destruction,  even  when  the  international  community 
granted  it  the  opportunity  to  rectify  its  policies  and 
behaviour. In that regard, we stress the importance of a 
united international position against Iran that addresses 
that  country’s  development  of  ballistic  missiles,  its 
support for terrorist groups and its use of proxy wars to 
undermine regional and international security.
The  second  challenge  that  the  region  is  facing 
is  the  spread  of  extremism  and  terrorism  and  the 
exploitation  of  modern  technology  by  extremist  and 
terrorist groups in order to disseminate their dangerous 
ideologies.  Although  we  have  made  some  promising 
advances  against  those  extremist  and  terrorist  groups 
in  Syria,  Iraq  and  Yemen  and  have  liberated  certain 
cities in Libya, our fight will continue until the scourge 
is eliminated.
18-30190
51/53
A/73/PV.14 
29/09/2018
The situation is becoming more dangerous as some 
States establish media platforms that incite hatred and 
serve  as  rostrums  for  extremist  and  terrorist  groups. 
We  are  facing  extremist  and  terrorist  ideologies 
that  are  equally  responsible  for  the  acts  of  violence 
committed in the name of those ideologies. The United 
Arab  Emirates  has  therefore  been  at  the  forefront  of 
States combating extremism and terrorism in both the 
ideological  and  the  security  realms.  In  addition,  my 
country has supported international forces such as the 
Group  of  Five  for  the  Sahel  joint  force  as  part  of  our 
efforts to eliminate extremism and terrorism wherever 
it  exists.  My  country  has  also  established  specialized 
institutions  to  counter  extremist  narratives,  promote 
tolerance and disseminate a culture of accepting others 
and  an  optimistic  vision  at  all  national,  regional  and 
international levels.
Convinced  that  lasting  and  global  peace  can  be 
achieved  only  through  peace  between  religions,  the 
Forum for Promoting Peace launched an international 
initiative  to  build  an  alliance  among  the  Abrahamic 
religions and world philosophies. That alliance is based 
on principles that transcend the paradigm of religious 
arguments  and  conflicts.  It  is  based  on  a  paradigm 
of  mutual  recognition  and  cooperation,  guided  by 
international  covenants  and  the  spirit  of  our  noble 
values and common virtues.
We  stress  that  our  values,  which  reject  both 
extremism and terrorism, are steadfast and unchanging. 
We emphasize that our policies to counter and combat 
the supporters of extremism, violence and hatred make 
no distinction between a group and a State. To that end, 
the United Arab Emirates, along with its brothers in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Arab Republic of Egypt 
and  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  has  taken  sovereign 
measures against Qatar. Those measures are pivotal and 
decisive  in  confronting  extremism  and  terrorism,  and 
are considered imperative to achieving a secure region.
The third challenge is posed by the prolonged crises 
in the region, which are merely managed in the absence 
of  political  solutions.  In  that  regard,  the  United  Arab 
Emirates will persist in supporting the existing political 
initiatives, including by working with all United Nations 
envoys.  In  that  connection,  the  Palestinian  question 
continues  to  wait  for  the  international  community  to 
reach  a  comprehensive,  lasting  and  just  solution  to 
end the suffering of our Palestinian brothers. We must 
underscore that this continued humanitarian tragedy is 
being exploited by extremist groups and rogue States.
Lastly,  we  believe  that  the  deterioration  in  the 
economic,  social  and  humanitarian  conditions  in  the 
parts  of  our  region  is  one  of  the  main  challenges  we 
face.  The  successful  experience  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates  has  led  us  to  believe  that  wise  leadership, 
the determination to achieve prosperity and a forward-
looking  approach  are  key  to  building  nations  and 
protecting them. My country’s foreign policy therefore 
includes  developmental,  humanitarian  and  cultural 
dimensions in order to support the needs of the people 
and to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
At  the  core  of  the  development  dimension  is  the 
strengthening  of  economic  opportunities  and  the 
empowerment of women and youth in countries affected 
by conflict. We believe that rebuilding Iraq is a prime 
example  of  the  importance  of  uniting  efforts  to  help 
countries  recovering  from  conflict.  The  international 
community  has  to  support  peaceful  and  inclusive 
communities,  including  through  the  protection  of 
minorities  and  the  prevention  of  atrocities  committed 
against them, such as the crimes committed against the 
Yazidis and the Rohingya.
My country is also playing a vital role in promoting 
humanitarian  and  relief  assistance  to  areas  affected 
by  conflicts  and  disasters  around  the  world.  The 
United  Arab  Emirates  aspires  to  transform  the  whole 
region into a global centre for technology, culture and 
innovation after decades of crises. My country focuses 
on anticipating challenges and on investing in advanced 
fields, such as artificial intelligence, space technology 
and  renewable  energy.  I  would  like  to  emphasize 
that  empowering  women  and  youth  and  investing  in 
their  unlimited  skills  contribute  to  building  resilient 
and  cohesive  societies  and,  eventually,  stable  and 
safe countries.
Today,  our  Arab  region  is  in  dire  need  of  a 
comprehensive regional transformation that will bring 
it out of chaos and into stability, and out of isolation and 
unilateralism into openness and planning for the future. 
We  are  cognizant  that  achieving  that  transformation 
will not be easy and that our efforts will succeed only by 
intensifying  collective  action.  Most  importantly,  each 
State must fulfil its responsibilities to reach that goal.
I  would  like  to  underscore  the  vital  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  supporting  political  processes, 
strengthening dialogue and building confidence among 
Governments so as to maintain international peace and 
security,  especially  given  the  worrying  uncertainty 
52/53 
18-30190
29/09/2018 
A/73/PV.14
that  currently  defines  the  international  order.  The 
United  Arab  Emirates  views  the  historic  agreement 
reached  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  under  the 
auspices  of  the  sisterly  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia,  as 
significant motivation for the international community 
to strengthen its diplomatic efforts.
In  addition,  the  international  community  must 
take  a  firm  and  consistent  stance  towards  States  that 
have hostile policies and violate international law and 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  United  Arab 
Emirates  reiterates  its  demand  for  its  legitimate  right 
to sovereignty over its three islands  — Greater Tunb, 
Lesser Tunb and Abu Musa, which Iran has occupied for 
47 years, in flagrant violation of international law and 
the Charter of the United Nations. We call once again 
upon Iran from this rostrum to respond to our repeated 
calls and return our rights to where they belong, either 
voluntarily or through the available peaceful means for 
resolving international disputes, at the top of which are 
direct negotiations or referral to the International Court 
of Justice or international arbitration.
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  vision  of  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  for  the  region  is  based  on  the 
values  upon  which  our  country  was  founded,  the 
positive  outcomes  already  achieved  by  my  country  at 
the national level, and our regional experiences in the 
region side by side with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 
with  whom  we  share  an  optimistic  vision  and  hope 
for  achieving  a  brighter  future  for  our  region  and  for 
all peoples.
The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m.
18-30190
53/53
