United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
54th plenary meeting
Friday, 14 December 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.54
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ten-Pow 
(Guyana), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 75
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/392 and 
Corr. 1 and 2)
(a) Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/73/78, 
A/73/170 and A/73/343)
Draft resolutions (A/73/L.18/Rev.1, A/73/L.51, 
A/73/L.53 and A/73/L.61)
Draft amendments (A/73/L.64 and A/73/L.65)
(b) Assistance to the Palestinian people
Report of the Secretary-General (A/73/84 and 
Corr. 1)
(c) Special economic assistance to individual 
countries or regions
The  Acting  President:  We  shall  now  proceed  to 
consider draft resolutions A/73/L.18/Rev.1, A/73/L.51, 
A/73/L.53  and  A/73/L.61  and  draft  amendments 
A/73/L.64 and A/73/L.65.
Before  giving 
the  floor  for  explanations  of 
vote  before  the  vote,  may  I  remind  delegations  that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Mohammed  (Sudan):  First  and  foremost,  I 
would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  all  humanitarian  workers 
and United Nations personnel around the world for their 
valuable sacrifices. We extend our heartfelt condolences 
to the families of those killed in the line of duty around 
the world.
We  have  serious  reservations  about  the  inclusion 
of  references  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  in  draft  resolution  A/73/L.51 
and other draft resolutions. To include such references 
and  language  would  exert  unacceptable  pressure  on 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  We  draw  the 
Assembly’s  attention  to  the  twenty-ninth  preambular 
paragraph  and  paragraph  7  of  draft 
resolution 
A/73/L.51, and we request that both paragraphs be put 
to the vote separately.
We  reject  the  inclusion  of  the  ICC  in  draft 
resolution A/73/L.51 — and its inclusion in other draft 
resolutions — for the following reasons.
First,  the  Court  is  not  an  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  notwithstanding  several  attempts  by  some 
parties  to  paint  it  otherwise  in  meetings  of  the  Main 
Committees of the General Assembly. We continue to 
advance  this  solid  conviction,  which  is  supported  by 
practice and law.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-44140 (E)
*1844140*

A/73/PV.54 
14/12/2018
law,  and 
international 
Secondly, the Rome Statute and other international 
incompatible  with  established  norms 
treaties  are 
of 
their  articles  contain 
contradictions  within  themselves.  Article  26  of  the 
Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties states that 
every treaty in force is binding only on the parties to 
it,  based  on  the  principle  of  free  consent.  The  Rome 
Statute  imposes  obligations  on  non-party  States.  We 
would  like  to  refer  here  to  the  joint  statement  by  the 
delegations of India and the United States of America 
immediately after the adoption of the Rome Statute on 
17 July 1998, which expressed the view from the very 
beginning  that  international  law,  and  specifically  the 
Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, had fallen 
victim to this Statute.
Thirdly, since 2003 the International Criminal Court 
has been only an impediment to peace in Darfur. The 
ICC is bound to create a serious conflict between peace 
and  justice.  It  remains  the  main  challenge  facing  the 
international community and the national Government 
of the Sudan in the area. It jeopardizes both peace and 
security. At best, the ICC represents a threat to peace 
and stability in Darfur, Africa and in many other parts 
of the world, not to mention the problems created by its 
disruptive history since its inception. The ICC has been 
fraught with corruption and one scandal after another.
Fourthly,  the  ICC  lacks  independence,  as  half 
of  its  budget  is  drawn  from  voluntary  contributions 
from  the  States  and  non-governmental  organizations 
that  exercise  control  over  it.  We  have  opposed  the 
International  Criminal  Court  since  the  beginning 
because of all those considerations. The ways in which 
we  express  our  opposition  have  of  course  changed 
according to circumstances and our official position as 
a sovereign Member State of this Organization.
Finally, we reiterate hereby our full support for the 
draft resolution as a whole. Humanitarian assistance is a 
vital and instrumental means to address crises, whether 
human-made or resulting from natural causes. That is 
why the lofty goals of humanitarian assistance should 
not be confused with such politically driven language, 
which  will  lead  only  to  discord  and  division.  We  call 
on  all  Member  States  to  vote  against  the  inclusion  of 
the  twenty-ninth  preambular  paragraph  and  operative 
paragraph 7 as they stand in draft resolution A/73/L.51.
Mr. Kickert (Austria): I have the honour to speak 
on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its member 
States.  The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; and the European Free Trade Association 
country  Norway,  member  of  the  European  Economic 
Area, align themselves with this statement.
The  EU  deeply  regrets  the  decision  of  the  United 
States to present an amendment (A/73/L.65) to the draft 
resolution  on  the  strengthening  of  the  coordination 
of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations  (A/73/L.61)  and  an  amendment  (A/73/L.64  ) 
to the draft resolution on international cooperation on 
humanitarian assistance in the field of natural disasters, 
from  relief  to  development  (A/73/L.18/Rev.1),  both 
of  which  draft  resolutions  have  always  been  adopted 
by consensus.
The decisions to revert to previously agreed language 
in paragraphs 58 and 59 of draft resolution A/73/L.61 and 
paragraph 59 of draft resolution A/73/L.18/Rev.1 were 
widely agreed to when it became clear that concerted 
and  lengthy  efforts  to  find  alternative  wording  would 
not lead to an acceptable agreement for all delegations. 
Sweden and Morocco, facilitators for draft resolutions 
A/73/L.61  and  A/73/L.18/Rev.1,  respectively,  made 
every  effort  to  conduct  negotiations  in  a  fair  and 
transparent  manner.  We  commend  the  facilitators,  as 
well as those who participated in negotiations, for their 
genuine  efforts  to  maintain  consensus  and  achieve  a 
good draft resolution for all.
The  United  Nations  membership,  many  of  whom 
hold divergent views on the issues at hand, have always 
been  able  to  agree  on  this  language.  That  illustrates 
how carefully crafted and balanced these long-standing 
paragraphs are. In that context, let us not forget that the 
international  community  made  a  shared  commitment 
in  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable  Development  to 
achieve  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  all 
women  and  girls,  which  includes  universal  access  to 
health-care  services.  International  cooperation  on 
crucial humanitarian matters such as these requires us 
to  act  in  a  responsible  way.  Undermining  consensus 
on  these  draft  resolutions  can  have  only  negative 
consequences,  impacting  first  and  foremost  the  most 
fundamental  rights  of  women  and  girls  in  need  of 
humanitarian assistance.
For the reasons I mentioned, the 28 States members 
of the European Union will vote against the amendments 
2/11 
18-44140
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.54
proposed by the United States, and we call on all other 
States to also vote no.
In  addition,  regarding  the  proposal  just  made 
by  the  representative  of  the  Sudan,  I  wish  to  make  a 
statement  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  its 
member  States.  The  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia 
and  Albania;  the  country  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Process and potential candidate Bosnia and 
Herzegovina; and the European Free Trade Association 
countries  Liechtenstein  and  Norway,  members  of  the 
European  Economic  Area;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Georgia,  align  themselves 
with this statement.
We  deeply  regret  that  the  Sudan  has  called  for  a 
vote  on  the  twenty-ninth  preambular  paragraph  and 
operative  paragraph  7  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.51. 
The  references  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC)  in  the  preambular  and  operative  parts  of  the 
resolution  on  the  safety  and  security  of  humanitarian 
personnel and protection of United Nations personnel 
have  existed  since  the  first  resolution  on  that  subject 
was adopted in 1999 (resolution 54/192).
The  EU  and  its  member  States  reiterate  their 
unwavering  support  for  the  ICC  as  the  world’s  first 
permanent international criminal court and an important 
tool  of  the  international  community  for  fighting 
impunity  and  contributing  to  peaceful  societies.  The 
gross violations of international humanitarian law and 
human  rights  that  we  witness  worldwide  are  a  sharp 
reminder of the increasing relevance of the Court, the 
role  of  which  is  to  complement  rather  than  replace 
existing national jurisdictions.
The  primary  responsibility  to  investigate  and 
prosecute  crimes  remains  with  individual  States.  All 
perpetrators  of  such  crimes  must  be  held  accountable 
for their actions. A key element in the Rome Statute is 
its equal application. In that respect, the creation of the 
ICC  has  given  millions  of  victims  of  atrocity  crimes 
new hope that justice will be done. States from all over 
the world have joined efforts to make that possible.
The  EU  and  its  member  States  consider  that  the 
fight  against  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  is 
critical  to  ensure  a  fair  and  just  society  by  holding 
the  perpetrators  accountable  and  ensuring  justice 
for  victims.  We  also  consider  that  peace  and  justice 
are  complementary  and  not  mutually  exclusive.  For 
those  reasons,  the  28  member  States  of  the  European 
Union will vote in favour of retaining the twenty-ninth 
preambular  paragraph  and  operative  paragraph  7  of 
draft resolution A/73/L.51. We call on all other States, 
in particular States parties to the Rome Statute of the 
ICC,  to  do  the  same,  voting  yes  to  the  retention  of 
those paragraphs.
Mr.  Sohlström 
fully  align 
ourselves with the statement just made on behalf of the 
European Union.
(Sweden):  We 
As  the  facilitator  and  main  co-sponsor  of  this 
year’s omnibus draft resolution on the strengthening of 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of the United Nations (A/73/L.61), I would like to make 
some comments in my national capacity. 
I  wish  to  note  that  an  omnibus  resolution  on 
humanitarian assistance has been adopted by consensus 
for  27  years.  It  is  a  resolution  on  the  humanitarian 
system  that  has  strong  regional  support  and  a  strong 
history  of  consensus.  As  the  main  co-sponsor  of  this 
draft  resolution  and  as  facilitator,  we  call  upon  the 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolutions  —  not  all  Member 
States  —  to  defend  the  text  and  to  vote  against  the 
amendments proposed to it.
Ms.  Pritchard  (Canada):  I  will  deliver 
this 
statement  in  two  parts.  I  have  the  honour  to  deliver 
the first part of this statement on behalf of Argentina, 
Australia,  Colombia,  Iceland,  Liechtenstein,  Mexico, 
New  Zealand,  Switzerland,  Uruguay  and  my  own 
country, Canada.
We deeply regret that the agreed language related 
to  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights  is  being 
challenged  in  the  proposed  amendments  (A/73/L.64 
and A/73/L.65) to the draft resolutions on international 
cooperation on humanitarian assistance in the field of 
natural disasters, from relief to development (A/73/L.18/
Rev.1)  and  on  the  strengthening  of  the  coordination 
of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations (A/73/L.61).
Reliable and safe access to sexual and reproductive 
health services is essential to ensuring the health and 
well-being  of  all  people,  especially  women  and  girls. 
In  humanitarian  crises,  the  need  for  such  services  is 
particularly  acute,  owing  to  the  heightened  risk  of 
disease, potential complications for maternal, newborn 
and child health as a result of displacement and service 
disruption, and the frequent occurrence of sexual and 
gender-based violence, particularly in conflict settings. 
18-44140
3/11
A/73/PV.54 
14/12/2018
It is estimated that a staggering 60 per cent of maternal 
mortality  occurs  in  humanitarian  and  fragile  settings 
because women do not have access to the services they 
need.  That  is  more  than  500  women  and  girls  dying 
every single day because they lack access to services.
Timely  and  effective  sexual  and  reproductive 
health interventions can help to prevent morbidity and 
mortality, including for women and girls, who may be 
especially vulnerable. The language in draft resolutions 
A/73/L.18/Rev.1  and  A/73/L.61  reflects  years  of 
consensus and recognizes the important role that sexual 
and reproductive health services can play in advancing 
gender equality and in providing long-term support for 
achieving women’s and girl’s economic empowerment, 
poverty reduction and sustainable development.
In  addition,  ensuring  access  to  quality  sexual 
and  reproductive  health  services  in  humanitarian 
settings  requires  precisely  the  kind  of  coordination 
and  cooperation  that  this  draft  resolution  seeks  to 
promote. We are therefore deeply disappointed that this 
language is being challenged at this time, and we call 
upon all delegations to vote against draft amendments 
A/73/L.64 and A/73/L.65.
I have the honour to deliver the second part of this 
statement on behalf of Australia, Iceland, Liechtenstein, 
New  Zealand,  Switzerland  and  my  own  country, 
Canada.
We regret than a vote has been called on the twenty-
ninth  preambular  paragraph  and  operative  paragraph 
7  of  draft  resolution  A/73/L.51,  which  the  Sudan  has 
just introduced.
The twenty-ninth preambular paragraph of the draft 
resolution  recalls  that  attacks  intentionally  directed 
against  civilian  personnel  involved  in  a  humanitarian 
assistance  or  peacekeeping  mission,  in  accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations, are war crimes 
under  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court (ICC), and notes the role that the Court can play 
in bringing to justice those responsible. That paragraph 
has been agreed language for years now.
Operative paragraph 7 of the draft resolution calls 
upon  all  States  to  consider  becoming  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. That 
has also been agreed language for many years. Nothing 
in paragraph 7 requires States to become signatories to 
the Rome Statute. Nothing in that paragraph seeks to 
impose the jurisdiction of the Court on States that are 
not  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  What  that  paragraph 
does is recall one of the tools available to all Member 
States  to  protect  humanitarian  and  United  Nations 
personnel and encourage them to avail themselves of it.
The ICC has a key role to play in ending impunity 
where  national  courts  are  unwilling  or  unable  to 
exercise  jurisdiction,  including  in  situations  where 
humanitarian  workers  and  peacekeeping  personnel 
are  the  targets  of  violent  attacks.  As  stated  in  the 
Rome Statute, the objective of such investigations and 
prosecutions is to end impunity for the perpetrators of 
such crimes, and thus to contribute to the prevention of 
such crimes. Ending attacks on humanitarian workers 
and peacekeepers goes to the heart and purpose of the 
draft resolution.
We  therefore  find  it  deeply  disturbing  that  this 
established consensus is now being attacked for reasons 
that have nothing to do with the topic dealt with in the 
draft resolution and are to the detriment of our common 
cause. We call upon all delegations to vote in support of 
those paragraphs as drafted, and we will do the same.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  decisions  on  draft 
resolution  A/73/L.18/Rev.1,  entitled  “International 
cooperation on humanitarian assistance in the field of 
natural disasters, from relief to development”.
I  give 
the 
the Secretariat.
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
the  following  countries  have  become  sponsors  of 
draft  resolution  A/73/L.18/Rev.1:  Albania,  Andorra, 
Armenia,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bulgaria, 
Canada,  Cyprus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, 
Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Kazakhstan,  Kiribati, 
Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg, 
Mali,  Malta,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  the  Netherlands, 
Nigeria,  Norway,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Romania,  the  Russian  Federation,  San  Marino,  Sao 
Tome and Principe, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine  and 
the 
United Kingdom.
4/11 
18-44140
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.54
The  Acting  President:  In  connection  with  the 
draft resolution, the General Assembly has before it a 
draft  amendment  circulated  in  document  A/73/L.64. 
In  accordance  with  rule  90  of  the  rules  of  procedure, 
the  Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft amendment. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Belarus,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Guatemala,  Sudan,  Togo, 
United States of America
Against:
Iraq, 
Israel, 
Ireland, 
Indonesia, 
Albania,  Andorra,  Angola,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational  State  of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia, 
Canada,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, 
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El 
Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
India, 
Italy, 
Japan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic, Latvia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Marshall  Islands,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, 
Nigeria,  Norway,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Romania,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Serbia,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand, 
the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh, 
Ethiopia,  Ghana,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kuwait,  Lebanon,  Malawi,  Myanmar,  Oman, 
Panama,  Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Sao  Tome 
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, United Arab 
Emirates, Yemen
Draft amendment A/73/L.64 was rejected by 6 votes 
to 110, with 22 abstentions.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the United States on a point of order.
Ms.  Nemroff  (United  States  of  America):  The 
amendments that we sought were very important to the 
delegation of the United States. Despite the results of 
the vote on draft amendment A/73/L.64, we would like 
to call a paragraph vote on operative paragraph 59 of 
draft resolution A/73/L.18/Rev.1.
The  Acting  President:  A  separate  recorded  vote 
has been requested on operative paragraph 59 of draft 
resolution A/73/L.18/Rev.1.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria, 
Albania, 
Afghanistan, 
Andorra, 
Angola,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Canada, Central 
African  Republic,  Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Costa 
Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Eritrea, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, 
France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, 
Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia, 
Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kenya,  Kiribati, 
Kuwait,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua 
New  Guinea,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa, San Marino, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi 
Arabia, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, 
Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, 
Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan, 
Thailand, 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Tuvalu,  Ukraine, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
the 
18-44140
5/11
A/73/PV.54 
14/12/2018
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
I  shall  first  put  to  the  vote  the  twenty-ninth 
preambular paragraph.
Against:
Guatemala,  Philippines,  Sudan,  United  States  of 
America
Abstaining:
Burundi,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Kazakhstan,  Panama, 
Russian Federation, Senegal
Operative paragraph 59 was retained by 137 votes 
to 4, with 6 abstentions.
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  the  Philippines 
informed the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour; the delegation of Lesotho informed the 
Secretariat that it had not intended to participate.]
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  Assembly  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/73/L.18/Rev.1 as a whole?
Draft resolution A/73/L.18/Rev.1, as a whole, was 
adopted (resolution 73/136).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/73/L.51, entitled 
“Safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and 
protection of United Nations personnel”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
the  following  countries  have  become  sponsors  of 
draft resolution A/73/L.51: Belize, Equatorial Guinea, 
Guinea, Haiti, the Niger, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, 
Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, the State of Palestine 
and Uruguay.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of Viet Nam on a point of order.
Mr. Nguyen (Viet Nam): I am sorry to inform the 
Assembly that Viet Nam withdraws its co-sponsorship 
of draft resolution A/73/L.51.
The  Acting  President:  Separate,  recorded  votes 
have  been  requested  on  the  twenty-ninth  preambular 
paragraph and operative paragraph 7 of draft resolution 
A/73/L.51.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina, 
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State 
of),  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria, 
Cambodia,  Canada,  Central  African  Republic, 
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, 
Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Guinea,  Guyana,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland, 
Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kiribati,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mexico, 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, 
Norway,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic 
of  Moldova,  Romania,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  Slovenia, 
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Against:
Bahrain, Burundi, China, Cuba, Equatorial Guinea, 
Eritrea,  Pakistan,  Russian  Federation,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Yemen, 
Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Algeria,  Angola,  Bhutan,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Indonesia,  Iraq,  Israel,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Malaysia, 
Mauritius, Morocco, Myanmar, Oman, Papua New 
Guinea, Qatar, Sao Tome and Principe, Singapore, 
Sri  Lanka,  Thailand,  Togo,  Turkey,  United  Arab 
Emirates, United States of America, Viet Nam
twenty-ninth  preambular  paragraph  was 
The 
retained by 93 votes to 13, with 26 abstentions.
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote against; 
the  delegation  of  Jordan  informed  the  Secretariat 
that it had intended to abstain.]
6/11 
18-44140
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.54
The Acting President: I shall now put to the vote 
operative paragraph 7.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Iraq, 
Iceland, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Andorra,  Argentina, 
Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belarus, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia,  Canada,  Central 
African  Republic,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Estonia, 
Fiji, Finland, France, Gambia, Georgia, Germany, 
Ghana,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana, 
Honduras,  Hungary, 
Ireland, 
Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,  Kiribati,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mexico, 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Namibia, 
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Norway,  Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, Romania, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia, 
Sierra  Leone,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden, 
Switzerland,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia,  Ukraine,  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Zambia
Against:
Bahrain, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Burundi, 
Cameroon, China, Cuba, Eritrea, Pakistan, Russian 
Federation,  Saudi  Arabia,  Sudan,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Yemen, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Algeria,  Angola,  Bhutan,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Indonesia, 
Israel,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lebanon, 
Malaysia,  Morocco,  Myanmar,  Nepal,  Oman, 
Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Sao Tome and Principe, 
Senegal,  Singapore,  Sri  Lanka,  Thailand,  Turkey, 
United  Arab  Emirates,  United  States  of  America, 
Viet Nam
Operative paragraph 7 was retained by 95 votes to 
14, with 25 abstentions.
[Subsequently,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  informed 
the Secretariat that it had intended to vote against; 
the  delegations  of  Iraq  and  Jordan  informed  the 
Secretariat that they had intended to abstain.]
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.51 
as a whole?
Draft resolution A/73/L.51, as a whole, was adopted 
(resolution 73/137).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will 
now  take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.53, 
entitled “White Helmets Commission: participation of 
volunteers in the activities of the United Nations in the 
field of humanitarian relief, rehabilitation and technical 
cooperation for development”.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
like 
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
the  document,  the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors of draft resolution A/73/L.53: Belarus, Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  Croatia,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo,  Denmark,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, 
Iceland, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Liberia, Mexico, 
Morocco,  the  Philippines,  Poland,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, Slovakia, Sweden, Togo, 
Tunisia and Viet Nam.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.53?
resolution  A/73/L.53  was 
Draft 
(resolution 73/138).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/73/L.61  entitled 
“Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations”.
adopted 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of 
the Secretariat.
Mr.  Nakano  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution,  in 
addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  the  document, 
the following countries have become sponsors of draft 
resolution A/73/L.61: Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Guinea,  Jamaica,  Kazakhstan, 
18-44140
7/11
A/73/PV.54 
14/12/2018
Kenya,  Kiribati,  Lebanon,  Liberia,  Madagascar, 
Malawi,  the  Marshall  Islands,  Mozambique,  Nigeria, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  the  Philippines,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome 
and Principe, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Togo and Tuvalu.
The  Acting  President:  In  connection  with  draft 
resolution A/73/L.61, the General Assembly has before 
it a draft amendment circulated in document A/73/L.65. 
In  accordance  with  rule  90  of  the  rules  of  procedure, 
the  Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft amendment. A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Belarus, Cameroon, Guatemala, Iraq, Qatar, Sudan, 
United States of America
Against:
Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, 
Austria,  Belgium,  Belize,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech 
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
El  Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece, 
Guinea,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Ireland,  Israel, 
Italy,  Japan,  Kenya,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malawi,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Niger,  Norway,  Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Thailand, 
the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Tuvalu, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  Uruguay,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Abstaining:
Algeria, 
Afghanistan, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi, 
Djibouti,  Egypt,  Ghana, 
Indonesia,  Jamaica, 
Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Myanmar, 
Angola, 
Oman,  Panama,  Russian  Federation,  Sao  Tome 
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Togo, United 
Arab Emirates, Yemen
Draft amendment A/73/L.65 was rejected by 7 votes 
to 102, with 27 abstentions.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative of the United States on a point of order.
Ms.  Nemroff  (United  States  of  America):  As 
these  paragraphs  are  of  the  utmost  importance  to  my 
delegation,  we  respectfully  request  a  single,  separate 
vote on operative paragraphs 58 and 59.
The  Acting  President:  A  separate,  recorded  vote 
has been requested on operative paragraphs 58 and 59 
of draft resolution A/73/L.61.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Algeria, 
Albania, 
Andorra, 
Afghanistan, 
Angola,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Australia,  Austria, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
Belgium,  Belize,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State of), Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Cambodia,  Cameroon, 
Canada,  Central  African  Republic,  Chile,  China, 
Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial 
Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guinea,  Guyana, 
Honduras,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia, 
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kiribati, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Marshall 
Islands,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Serbia,  Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Tuvalu,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
8/11 
18-44140
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.54
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic 
of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Guatemala, Sudan, United States of America
Abstaining:
Burundi,  Ghana,  Panama,  Russian  Federation, 
Senegal, Togo
Operative paragraph 58 and operative paragraph 
59 were retained by 131 votes to 3, with 6 abstentions.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/73/L.61 
as a whole?
Draft resolution A/73/L.61, as a whole, was adopted 
(resolution 73/139).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to 
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  explanation  of 
vote  or  position  on  the  resolutions  just  adopted,  may 
I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  are  limited  to 
10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Ms.  Nemroff  (United  States  of  America):  The 
United States is pleased to join the consensus on these 
resolutions  and  reaffirms  the  vital  function  of  the 
United  Nations  in  responding  to  humanitarian  need 
around  the  globe.  The  United  States  has  long  been  a 
world  leader  in  providing  humanitarian  assistance  to 
people in need, including through the United Nations, 
and we remain committed to supporting those in need.
In the light of the scale of need and the Organization’s 
role 
the  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance 
globally,  resolution  73/139,  on  strengthening  of  the 
coordination  of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance 
of the United Nations, should contribute to improving 
the international humanitarian system. In that regard, 
we  welcome  the  progress  achieved  by  Member  States 
together throughout recent negotiations.
in 
Although  we  welcome  the  adoption  of  resolution 
73/137,  on  the  safety  and  security  of  humanitarian 
personnel and protection of United Nations personnel,
we  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  make  an 
important point of clarification. The resolution includes 
references  to  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
and  the  Rome  Statute  that  the  United  States  cannot 
support.  As  it  stands,  the  language  in  the  resolution 
does  not  sufficiently  distinguish  between  parties  and 
non-parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  and  is  otherwise 
contrary  to  the  United  States  position  on  the  ICC,  as 
announced by the White House on 10 September.
We  also  wish 
In  particular,  the  United  States  reiterates  its 
continuing  and  long-standing  principled  objection 
to  any  assertion  of  ICC  jurisdiction  over  nationals  of 
States that are not party to the Rome Statute, including 
the United States and Israel, absent a referral from the 
Security Council or the consent of the State in question.
to  reiterate  our  serious  and 
the  ICC  Prosecutor’s 
fundamental  concerns  with 
proposed  investigation  of  United  States  personnel  in 
the context of the conflict in Afghanistan. The United 
States  remains  a  leader  in  the  fight  to  end  impunity 
and  continues  to  support  justice  and  accountability 
for international crimes, including war crimes, crimes 
against humanity and genocide. We respect the decision 
of  those  nations  that  have  chosen  to  join  the  ICC.  In 
turn, we expect that our decision not to join and not to 
place our citizens under the ICC’s jurisdiction will also 
be respected.
In addition to the statement just provided, the United 
States would like to issue the following explanation of 
position on resolutions 73/139, on strengthening of the 
coordination  of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance 
of  the  United  Nations,  and  73/136,  on  international 
cooperation on humanitarian assistance in the field of 
natural disasters, from relief to development, for which 
we are also pleased to join the consensus.
While we welcome the adoption of those resolutions, 
we would like to make a number of important points of 
clarification on some of their elements. We underscore 
that  General  Assembly  resolutions  and  many  of  the 
outcome  documents  they  reference  are  non-binding 
documents  that  do  not  create  rights  or  obligations 
under international law, nor do they bind States to any 
financial commitments.
in 
With regard to the references to the 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  contained 
those 
resolutions,  the  United  States  wishes  to  refer  to  its 
statement  at  the  44th  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly,  on  3  December,  under  agenda  item  12 
(see  A/73/PV.44).  The  United  States  notes  that  its 
Administration has announced its intention to withdraw 
from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change as soon 
as it is eligible to do so, consistent with the terms of the 
Agreement,  unless  suitable  terms  for  re-engagement 
are  identified.  Therefore,  the  Paris  Agreement  and 
18-44140
9/11
A/73/PV.54 
14/12/2018
climate change language in these resolutions is without 
prejudice  to  United  States  positions.  We  affirm  our 
support for promoting economic growth and improving 
energy security while protecting the environment.
We  also  reiterate  our  views  on 
the  Sendai 
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, as set forth in 
the United States explanation of position delivered on 
18 March 2015.
The  United  States  cannot  support  language  that 
undermines incentives for innovation, such as calls for 
technology transfer that are not voluntary or on mutually 
agreed terms. It underlines that such language will have 
no standing in future negotiations. With respect to the 
New  Urban  Agenda,  the  United  States  reiterates  our 
views, as set forth in the United States explanation of 
position delivered on 20 October 2016.
Furthermore,  the  United  States  believes  that  each 
Member  States  has  the  sovereign  right  to  determine 
how  it  conducts  trade  with  other  countries,  which 
includes  restricting  trade  in  certain  circumstances. 
We  are  within  our  rights  to  utilize  our  trade  and 
commercial policy as tools to achieve noble objectives. 
Within the omnibus resolution on the strengthening of 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  United  States  is  strongly 
supportive  of  the  message  of  paragraph  67  regarding 
the  need  for  accountability.  We  read  the  paragraph’s 
language  on  the  need  to  bring  those  responsible  for 
violations of international law to justice to refer only to 
those actions that constitute criminal violations under 
applicable international law.
We emphasize that, in the twenty-eighth preambular 
paragraph and paragraph 65 of the same resolution, the 
reference to
“the applicable rules of international humanitarian 
law relating to the non-punishment of any person 
for carrying out medical activities compatible with 
medical ethics”
is not meant to prejudge when and how such rules are 
applicable to any particular situation.
The  United  States  also  supports  international 
cooperation  on  immigration  issues,  but  it  is  the 
primary  responsibility  of  sovereign  States  to  ensure 
that immigration is managed consistent with their law 
and policy. The United States cannot support processes 
or  documents  that  may  result  in  the  infringement  of 
our  sovereign  rights.  The  New  York  Declaration  for 
Refugees and Migrants, of 19 September 2016, which 
was negotiated by a prior United States Administration, 
commits the States Members of the United Nations to 
“strengthening  global  governance”  of  international 
migration.  The  Declaration  contains  policy  goals  that 
are  inconsistent  with  United  States  law  and  policy, 
and  the  United  States  cannot  support  reaffirming 
that  Declaration.  It  therefore  dissociates  itself  from 
the  twenty-third  preambular  paragraph  of  resolution 
73/109.
Lastly,  the  United  States  believes  that  women 
should  have  equal  access  to  health  care,  including  in 
humanitarian  emergencies.  We  remain  committed  to 
the  principles  laid  out  in  the  Beijing  Declaration  and 
Platform  for  Action  and  the  Programme  of  Action 
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and 
Development,  and  their  reports,  as  agreed  upon  by 
the  General  Assembly.  As  has  been  made  clear  over 
many years, there was international consensus that the 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  do  not  create 
new 
including  any  so-called 
right to abortion. The United States fully supports the 
principle  of  voluntary  choice  regarding  maternal  and 
child health and family planning. We do not recognize 
abortion  as  a  method  of  family  planning,  nor  do  we 
support abortion in our global health assistance.
international  rights, 
Ms. Elgarf (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): My country’s 
delegation would like to explain its vote on resolution 
73/137,  which  was  just  adopted.  We  wish  to  note  the 
extreme importance that my delegation attaches to the 
issue of humanitarian assistance and its commitment to 
being constructively engaged in all intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  General  Assembly  resolutions  aimed 
at  strengthening  United  Nations  efforts  to  improve 
the  response  to  humanitarian  needs.  My  delegation 
therefore calls on all Member States to intensify their 
efforts  and  explore  all  avenues  to  removing  obstacles 
that impede consensus on General Assembly resolutions 
on  humanitarian  assistance,  especially  with  regard  to 
this important resolution.
Ms. Fisher-Tsin (Israel): The Secretariat announced 
additional  co-sponsors  of  the  resolution  on  the  safety 
and security of humanitarian personnel and protection 
of  the  United  Nations  personnel  (resolution  73/137). 
Among them was the observer State of Palestine.
According to paragraph 5 of the annex to resolution 
52/250,  of  13  July  1998,  entitled  “Participation  of 
Palestine  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations”,  which 
10/11 
18-44140
14/12/2018 
A/73/PV.54
outlines the limited rights and privileges granted to the 
observer State of Palestine, it has the right to sponsor 
draft resolutions and decisions on Palestine and Middle 
East issues only. The subject matter of resolution 73/137 
clearly does not fall within those parameters.
We would like to stress the importance we attach 
to following the rules of procedure of the Organization. 
The rules of sponsorship have been clearly laid out in 
the rules and regulations governing the Organization. 
Any  decision  to  avoid  them  is  in  violation  of  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  serves  only  to  undermine 
this institution.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda  item  75  and  its 
sub-items (a) to (c).
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments
(e) Appointment of members of the Committee on 
Conferences
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/107)
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that, 
at its 51st plenary meeting, on 12 December 2018, the 
Assembly  took  note  of  the  appointments  of  Ecuador, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Guyana,  Senegal  and  Ukraine  as 
members of the Committee on Conferences for a period 
of three years, beginning on 1 January 2019.
Members will also recall that one seat from among 
the  Asia-Pacific  States  for  a  period  of  three  years 
beginning on 1 January 2019 still remains vacant.
After  consultations  with  the  Chair  of  the  Group 
of  Asia-Pacific  States,  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly has appointed the Islamic Republic of Iran as 
a member of the Committee on Conferences for a term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2019 and ending on 
31 December 2021.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of 
this appointment?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (e) of agenda item 117?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
18-44140
11/11
