United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
19th plenary meeting
Friday, 12 October 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.19*
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 140
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations (continued)
Report of the Fifth Committee (A/73/421)
The President (spoke in Spanish): The positions of 
delegations regarding the recommendation of the Fifth 
Committee  in  its  report  (A/73/421)  have  been  made 
clear in the Committee and are reflected in the relevant 
official records. Therefore, if there is no proposal under 
rule 66 of the rules of procedure, may I take it that the 
General Assembly decides not to discuss the report of 
the Fifth Committee that is before the Assembly today?
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  we 
begin to take action on the recommendation contained 
in  the  report  of  the  Fifth  Committee,  I  would  like  to 
advise representatives that we are going to proceed to 
take a decision in the same manner as was done in the 
Fifth Committee.
The Assembly will now take a decision on the draft 
resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee  in 
paragraph 6 of its report. The Fifth Committee adopted 
the  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Scale  of  assessments 
for  the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the  Charter”, 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same?
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 73/4).
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Assembly 
has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 140.
Agenda item 116
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections
(d) Election of members of the Human Rights Council
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
Assembly  will  now  proceed  with  the  election  of  18 
members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  replace 
those  members  whose  term  of  office  expires  on 
31 December 2018.
The  18  outgoing  members  are  the  following: 
Belgium,  Burundi,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Ecuador,  Ethiopia, 
Georgia,  Germany,  Kenya,  Kyrgyzstan,  Mongolia, 
Panama,  the  Philippines,  the  Republic  of  Korea, 
Slovenia, Switzerland, Togo, the United Arab Emirates 
and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
In  accordance  with  paragraph  7  of  resolution 
60/251  of  15  March  2006,  these  Member  States  are 
eligible for immediate re-election except those that have 
served  two  consecutive  terms,  namely,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Ethiopia, Germany, Kenya, the Republic of Korea, the 
United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic 
of Venezuela.
The  18  vacant  seats  should  be  distributed  among 
the regional groups as follows: five seats for the African 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-31768 (E)
*1831768*
  * Reissued for technical reasons 28 February 2019.
A/73/PV.19 
12/10/2018
States; five seats for the Asia-Pacific States; two seats 
for  the  Eastern  European  States;  three  seats  for  the 
Latin American and Caribbean States; and three seats 
for the Western European and other States.
In accordance with resolution 60/251, membership 
in the Council shall be open to all States Members of 
the  United  Nations,  and  the  members  of  the  Council 
shall serve for a period of three years. The members of 
the Council shall be elected directly and individually, 
by secret ballot, by the majority of the members of the 
General  Assembly.  Accordingly,  97  votes  constitute 
a  majority  in  the  General  Assembly,  which  has  a 
membership of 193 States.
The following States will continue to be members 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council:  Afghanistan,  Angola, 
Australia,  Brazil,  Chile,  China,  Croatia,  Cuba,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Egypt,  Hungary, 
Iceland, Iraq, Japan, Mexico, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, 
Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, 
South Africa, Spain, Tunisia, Ukraine and the United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland.  The 
names of these States, therefore, should not appear on 
the ballot papers.
I remind delegations that the names of the following 
Member  States  should  also  not  appear  on  the  ballot 
papers as they have served two consecutive terms and 
are therefore not eligible for this election: Côte d’Ivoire, 
Ethiopia, Germany, Kenya, the Republic of Korea, the 
United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  Bolivarian  Republic 
of Venezuela.
Consistent  with 
the  practice  of 
The  election  will  be  held  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant rules of procedure of the General Assembly on 
elections. For this election, rules 92 and 94 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly shall be applied.
the  General 
Assembly, if more than the required number of Member 
States  has  obtained  the  votes  of  the  majority  of  the 
members  of  the  Assembly  on  the  same  ballot,  those 
Member  States  that  have  obtained  the  largest  number 
of votes above the required majority will be considered 
elected,  up  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled.  Also, 
consistent with past practice, when, in the case of a tied 
vote, it becomes necessary to determine the candidate 
to be elected or that will proceed to the next round of 
restricted  balloting,  there  will  be  a  special  restricted 
ballot limited to those candidates that have obtained an 
equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
these procedures?
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Regarding  the 
candidatures  of  the  respective  regional  Groups,  the 
Secretariat has been informed that, for the five vacant 
seats  for  African  States,  the  Group  has  endorsed  five 
candidates: Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Eritrea, Somalia 
and Togo.
For  the  five  vacant  seats  for  Asia-Pacific  States, 
the Secretariat has received communications from five 
candidates:  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Fiji,  India  and  the 
Philippines.
For  the  two  vacant  seats  for  Eastern  European 
States,  the  Secretariat  has  received  communications 
from two candidates: Bulgaria and the Czech Republic.
For  the  three  vacant  seats  for  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States,  the  Secretariat  has  received 
communications from three candidates: Argentina, the 
Bahamas and Uruguay.
For  the  three  vacant  seats  for  Western  European 
received 
three  candidates:  Austria,  
the  Secretariat  has 
from 
and  other  States, 
communications 
Denmark and Italy.
I  have  been  informed  by  the  Secretariat  that 
voluntary pledges and commitments made by Member 
States,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  8  of  resolution 
60/251, were accordingly issued as official documents 
of the seventy-third session.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like to 
remind members that pursuant to rule 88 of the rules of 
procedure of the General Assembly, no representative 
shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a  point  of  order 
on the actual conduct of the voting. In addition, ballot 
papers will be given only to the representative seated 
directly behind the country’s nameplate.
We shall now begin the voting process.
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B”, “C”, “D” and “E” 
will now be distributed. Each ballot paper is assigned to 
one of the five regional groups. I request representatives 
to use only these ballot papers.
In 
accordance  with 
resolution  71/323  of 
8  September  2017,  the  names  of  the  States  that  have 
been communicated to the Secretariat, at least 48 hours 
prior  to  the  election  today,  have  been  printed  on  the 
2/4 
18-31768
12/10/2018 
A/73/PV.19
ballot  papers  for  each  of  the  regional  groups.  Also, 
additional blank lines corresponding to the number of 
vacant seats to be filled for each of the regional groups 
have been provided on the ballot papers for inscribing 
other names as necessary.
Representatives  are  requested  to  check  the  boxes 
next  to  the  names  of  candidates  that  are  printed  on 
the ballot papers and/or write other eligible names on 
the  blank  lines.  The  total  number  of  checked  boxes 
and  handwritten  names  may  not  exceed  the  number 
of  vacant  seats  to  be  filled  as  indicated  on  the  ballot 
paper.  A  ballot  paper  containing  more  votes  than  the 
number  of  vacant  seats  indicated  on  the  ballot  paper 
will be declared invalid. A ballot will also be declared 
invalid if all the votes on that ballot do not belong to the 
relevant region.
Accordingly,  for  the  ballot  paper  marked  “A”,  for 
African States, the total number of checked boxes and 
handwritten names should not exceed five candidates; 
for the ballot paper marked “B”, for Asia-Pacific States, 
the  total  number  of  checked  boxes  and  handwritten 
names should not exceed five candidates; for the ballot 
paper  marked  “C”,  for  Eastern  European  States,  the 
total number of checked boxes and handwritten names 
should not exceed two candidates; for the ballot paper 
marked “D”, for Latin American and Caribbean States, 
the  total  number  of  checked  boxes  and  handwritten 
names should not exceed three candidates; and for the 
ballot  papers  marked  “E”,  for  Western  European  and 
other  States,  the  total  number  of  checked  boxes  and 
handwritten names should not exceed three candidates.
If  a  ballot  paper  contains  one  of  the  following 
names of Member States, the ballot remains valid but 
the vote for these Member States will not be counted: 
names of Member States that do not belong to the region 
concerned; names of Member States that are not eligible 
for re-election; and names of Member States that will 
continue to be members of the Council next year.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Karem 
(Iraq), Mr. Asuta (Kenya), Ms. Fareena (Maldives), 
Ms.  Velazquez  Gamarra  (Paraguay),  Mr.  Correia 
Camilo (Portugal) and Mrs. Nipomici (Republic of 
Moldova) acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.35  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.50 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is 
as follows:
Group A — African States (5 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Burkina Faso  
Togo  
Cameroon  
Somalia  
Eritrea  
Group B — Asia-Pacific States (5 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
India  
Fiji  
Bangladesh  
Bahrain  
Philippines  
193
0
193
1
192
97
183
181
176
170
160
193
0
193
1
192
97
188
187
178
165
165
Group C — Eastern European States (2 seats)
Number of ballot papers:  
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
Bulgaria  
Czech Republic  
193
0
193
5
188
97
180
178
Group D — Latin American and Caribbean States 
(3 seats)
Number of ballot papers: 193
Number of invalid ballots: 0
Number of valid ballots: 193
Abstentions: 4
Number of members voting: 189
Required absolute majority: 97
Number of votes obtained:
Bahamas 180
18-31768
3/4
A/73/PV.19 
Uruguay 177
Argentina 172
Group  E  —  Western  European  and  other  States 
(3 seats)
Number of ballot papers: 193
Number of invalid ballots:  
Number of valid ballots:  
Abstentions:  
Number of members voting:  
Required absolute majority:  
Number of votes obtained:
0
193
4
189
97
Italy  
Austria  
Denmark  
United States of America  
180
171
167
1
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
largest  number  of  votes  of  the  members  of  the 
General  Assembly,  the  following  18  States  were 
elected members of the Human Rights Council for 
a three-year term of office beginning on 1 January 
2019:  Argentina,  Austria,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon, 
the Czech Republic, Denmark, Eritrea, Fiji, India, 
Italy, the Philippines, Somalia, Togo and Uruguay.
The  President:  I  congratulate  those  States  that 
have  been  elected  members  of  the  Human  Rights 
12/10/2018
Council, and I thank the tellers for their assistance in 
this election.
The Assembly has thus concluded its consideration 
of sub-item (d) of agenda item 116.
Announcement by the President
The  President:  I  wish  to  make  an  announcement 
concerning the membership of the General Committee 
of the seventy-third session of the General Assembly. 
Members  will  recall  that  for  the  seventy-third 
session, the President, the twenty-one Vice-Presidents 
and the Chairs of the six Main Committees were elected 
on  5  June  2018.  Subsequently,  I  would  like  to  inform 
Members  that  on  4  October  2018,  His  Excellency 
Dee-Maxwell  Saah  Kemayah  (Liberia)  was  elected 
Chair  of  the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization 
Committee  (Fourth  Committee)  at  its  seventy-third 
session  and  is  accordingly  a  member  of  the  General 
Committee for the session. 
I congratulate the Chair of the Special Political and 
Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) on his 
election.
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
4/4 
18-31768
