United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
20th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 16 October 2018, 3 p.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 125 (continued)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Draft resolution (A/73/L.5)
The President (spoke in Spanish): I now give the 
floor to the representative of Egypt to introduce draft 
resolution A/73/L.5.
Mr.  Edrees  (Egypt):  Since  its  inception,  the 
Group  of  77  (G-77)  and  China  has  been  championing 
multilateralism and global solidarity, as they are among 
the key means for fostering cooperative and harmonious 
relations  towards  the  achievement  of  equity,  equality 
and prosperity for all. On that basis, we have strived to 
promote the collective economic interests of developing 
countries and enhance their joint negotiating capacity 
on  all  major  international  economic  and  development 
issues within the United Nations system, and we have 
effectively contributed to international cooperation on 
those issues, of which there are many.
As we have stressed before, the legacy of the Group 
of 77 and China is inextricable from that of the United 
Nations. It would be no exaggeration to state and remind 
ourselves that so much of what the United Nations has 
achieved  in  the  past  half-century  in  the  development 
sphere has been in one way or another inspired, founded, 
shaped  and  supported  towards  fruition  through  the 
Group of 77 and China.
On 27 September, the Group of 77 and China elected 
the State of Palestine as Chair of the Group for the year 
2019, following the endorsement by the Group of Asia-
Pacific  States  of  its  candidature  in  November  2017. 
While  the  State  of  Palestine  has  been  a  full-fledged 
member  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  since  January 
1976, Palestine remains a non-member observer State of 
the United Nations. Therefore, the rights and privileges 
enjoyed by the State of Palestine vary from one United 
Nations  organ  to  another,  based  Organizationn  the 
respective  rules  of  procedure,  the  resolutions  adopted 
by those organs and their established practices.
In 
that  context,  following  consultations  with 
the  Secretariat,  it  has  been  assessed  that  a  General 
Assembly  resolution  would  be  required  to  avail  the 
State of Palestine with the rights and capacity required 
to be able to perform the functions and usual practices 
undertaken by the Chair of the G-77 and China in the 
General  Assembly,  other  organs,  entities  and  certain 
conferences  for  the  duration  of  its  chairmanship  of 
the G-77 and China in the year 2019, thereby enabling 
its  effective  chairmanship  and  the  continuity  of  the 
positive  role  played  by  the  Group  within  the  United 
Nations system.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  therefore  introduces 
today  draft  resolution  A/73/L.5,  entitled  “Chair  of 
the Group of 77 for 2019”. The rights I mentioned are 
enumerated in the annex of that document. The adoption 
of  this  draft  resolution,  which  we  consider  to  be 
technical and procedural in nature, will enable the next 
Chair  of  the  Group  to  effectively  fulfil  its  duties  and 
responsibilities to the Group and the wider membership 
during the year 2019, without prejudice to the existing 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-31786 (E)
*1831786*

A/73/PV.20 
16/10/2018
rights and privileges of the State of Palestine as per the 
relevant resolutions.
On behalf of the G-77 and China, I invite all Member 
States  to  positively  consider  the  draft  resolution  now 
before  them,  taking  into  consideration  its  technical 
nature but also its importance to the work of the Group, 
and also noting that Egypt, in its capacity as Chair of 
the  Group,  and  the  State  of  Palestine  were  engaged 
in  the  process  in  full  transparency  within  the  Group 
and  the  wider  membership,  with  a  view  to  enabling 
a  smooth  transition  and  the  continued  efficacy  of  the 
Group’s work in the coming year.
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  General 
Assembly will now consider draft resolution A/73/L.5.
Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the voting, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats.
Mr. Cohen (United States of America): For decades, 
the  United  States  has  been  committed  to  achieving  a 
comprehensive  end  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict. 
Only  through  direct  negotiations  between  the  parties 
can the Israelis and the Palestinians achieve the peace 
that they both deserve, which remains our goal today. 
We  cannot  support  the  efforts  of  the  Palestinians  to 
enhance  their  status  outside  of  direct  negotiations. 
The  United  States  does  not  recognize  that  there  is  a 
Palestinian State and notes that no such State has been 
admitted as a State Member of the United Nations. We 
therefore  strongly  oppose  the  election  of  Palestine  as 
Chair of the Group of 77 (G-77), as well as the so-called 
enabling draft resolution (A/73/L.5).
If  that  misguided  draft  resolution  is  adopted,  the 
United States will leave no doubt about where it stands. 
When the Palestinians speak as Chair of the G-77 in the 
General Assembly, we will remind our fellow Member 
States  that  the  United  States  does  not  recognize  that 
there is a Palestinian State and that no such State has 
been admitted as a State Member of the United Nations. 
Only States Members of the United Nations should be 
entitled to speak and act on behalf of major groups of 
States — such as the Group of 77 and China — at the 
United Nations.
It is entirely inappropriate for an observer State to 
play  the  role  of  representing  a  group  of  States  in  the 
General Assembly or elsewhere in the United Nations 
system.  The  United  States  has  long  opposed  the 
enhancements  of  the  Palestinian  status  at  the  United 
Nations. We voted against resolution 67/19, designating 
the  Palestinian  delegation  as  a  non-member  observer 
State.  We  have  consistently  and  formally  objected  to 
Palestinian accession to treaties to which we are party. 
That  is  because,  as  I  have  already  said,  the  United 
States  does  not  recognize  that  there  is  a  Palestinian 
State and we do not consider ourselves to be in a treaty 
relationship with the “State of Palestine”.
Achieving  real  peace  requires  the  courage  to 
sit  down  at  the  table  and  make  compromises.  This 
initiative  does  the  opposite  of  that.  We  therefore  ask 
that  all  delegations  vote  against  this  draft  resolution. 
We also urge Palestinian leaders to do the right thing 
for  their  people  and  re-engage  in  peace  talks.  When 
they are ready, rest assured that the United States will 
be ready too.
Mrs. Furman (Israel): The Group of 77 (G-77) is 
an important player in the development work here at the 
United Nations. It handles issues that are of the utmost 
importance  to  us  all,  especially  now  as  the  United 
Nations  and  Member  States  engage  in  development 
reform. It should be a matter of concern for everyone 
if  the  Group  is  exploited  for  non-development  issues 
and  is  used  to  advance  the  political  interests  of  one 
delegation.  The  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/73/L.5), 
as drafted, makes it clear that that is indeed the case. 
Despite the claim that this is a G-77 draft resolution that 
is technical in nature, it was drafted by the Palestinian 
delegation  and  goes  beyond  what  is  necessary  for  the 
Chair to execute its functions on behalf of the Group. 
Unfortunately,  that  pattern  of  manipulative  behaviour 
is not new.
The  established  rules  of  procedure  of  the  United 
Nations are important and set the framework in which 
we conduct our business. Constant attempts to change 
the  rules  of  procedure  to  accommodate  one  observer 
delegation in a manner that would not be tolerated for 
any Member State only weakens this institution. How 
ironic is it that this draft resolution is being considered 
under  the  agenda  item  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the 
United  Nations  system”,  when  it  clearly  weakens  and 
undermines the United Nations? We will therefore vote 
against  the  draft  resolution.  Looking  towards  2019, 
we  sincerely  hope  that  the  same  professional  manner 
in  which  the  current  Chair  handled  the  coordination 
and  deliberations  of  the  G-77  will  be  maintained  and 
that  the  Group  will  not  be  used  cynically  to  score 
political points.
2/4 
18-31786
16/10/2018 
A/73/PV.20
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/73/L.5, entitled “Chair of the Group of 77 
for 2019”.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia 
(Plurinational State of), Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, 
Cambodia,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominican  Republic, 
Ecuador,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea,  Estonia, 
Eswatini,  Ethiopia,  Finland,  France,  Gambia, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guinea, 
Guyana,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Luxembourg,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Russian  Federation, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Saudi 
Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Slovenia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-
Leste, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Uganda,  United  Arab 
Emirates,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern  Ireland,  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia, Israel, United States of America
Abstaining:
Andorra,  Austria,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
Bulgaria,  Canada,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic, 
Honduras,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Monaco, 
Poland, Slovakia, Tuvalu
Draft resolution A/73/L.5 was adopted by 146 votes 
to 3, with 15 abstentions (resolution 73/5).
[Subsequently, 
the  delegation  of  Seychelles 
informed the Secretariat that it had intended to vote 
in favour.]
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  giving 
the  floor  to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  after  the 
voting, may I remind delegations that explanations are 
limited to 10 minutes and should be made by delegations 
from their seats.
Mr. Schulz (Germany): Germany voted in favour 
of  resolution  73/5  in  order  to  enable  the  Palestinian 
Chair of the Group of 77 to carry out its responsibilities 
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. We welcome 
the fact that the resolution limits additional rights and 
privileges to the duration of the Palestinian Chair’s role 
in 2019 and to functions required to carry out that role. 
With reference to our explanation of vote on resolution 
67/19,  entitled  “Status  of  Palestine  in  the  United 
Nations”  of  29  November  2012  (see  A/67/PV.44),  our 
vote today should not be construed as recognition of a 
State of Palestine. It should also not be construed as a 
statement on its status in the United Nations. We look 
forward to working closely with a Palestinian Chair of 
the Group of 77 in 2019.
Mrs.  Gregoire  Van  Haaren  (Netherlands):  The 
Kingdom of the Netherlands voted in favour of resolution 
73/5, on the Palestinian leadership of the Group of 77, 
in  order  to  enable  the  Palestinian  delegation  to  carry 
out its responsibilities as Chair of the Group of 77. We 
welcome the fact that the resolution is limited in time to 
the duration of the Palestinian leadership of the Group of 
77 and limited in scope to only the functions necessary 
to carry out that role. With reference to our statement 
of  29  November  2012  (see  A/67/PV.44)  in  respect  to 
resolution  67/19,  our  vote  should  not  be  construed  as 
recognition of a State of Palestine by the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands. We look forward to cooperating with 
the Group of 77 and its chairmanship in an open and 
constructive way and in the spirit of this resolution.
Mr.  Bird  (Australia):  Australia’s  decision  to  vote 
against resolution 73/5 reflects its long-standing position 
18-31786
3/4
A/73/PV.20 
16/10/2018
that Palestinian attempts to seek recognition as a State 
in international forums are deeply unhelpful to efforts 
towards a two-State solution. Unilateral recognition of 
Palestinian statehood will not resolve outstanding issues 
or create the conditions for enduring stability. That will 
be realized only from a directly negotiated agreement 
between Israel and the Palestinians. Australia remains 
firmly  committed  to  a  two-State  solution  that  allows 
Israel and a future Palestinian State to exist side by side 
in peace and security within internationally recognized 
borders.  We  urge  all  parties  to  take  the  courageous 
decisions  needed  to  return  to,  and  make  progress  in, 
negotiations. It is critical that no party seek to exploit 
the outcome of today’s voting in ways that could further 
undermine prospects for a just and lasting settlement.
Mr. Allen (United Kingdom): The United Kingdom 
welcomes the fact that resolution 73/5 is limited in time 
to  the  duration  of  the  Palestinian  leadership  of  the 
Group of 77 (G-77) and limited in scope to the functions 
necessary to carry out that role. For those reasons, we 
voted in favour. Our vote today is to enable the effective 
Palestinian  chairmanship  of  the  G-77  and  should  not 
be misconstrued as recognition of a Palestinian State. 
We  reserve  the  right  to  recognize  a  Palestinian  State 
bilaterally at a time when it best serves the objective of 
peace. Ultimately, the only way to give the Palestinian 
people the State that they need and deserve and give the 
Israeli people the security and peace to which they are 
entitled is through a negotiated two-State solution.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker in explanation of vote after the voting.
I now give the floor to the observer of the Observer 
State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  At  the  outset,  allow 
us  to  express  our  appreciation  to  all  those  who  voted 
in  favour  of  resolution  73/5.  There  were  146  votes  in 
favour and three against. The voting today represents 
multilateralism at its best, with the broader membership 
supporting  a  resolution  to  enable  the  elected  Chair 
of  a  group  to  perform  its  duties  effectively.  It  is  an 
expression of respect for the decision of the Group of 77 
and China to elect the State of Palestine as its Chair for 
the year 2019 by acclamation, following the consensus 
endorsement by the Group of Asia-Pacific States of the 
State of Palestine’s candidature.
The State of Palestine will spare no effort to prove 
itself  worthy  of  that  trust  in  its  capacity  to  represent 
and  defend  the  interests  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China,  while  also  engaging  constructively  and  in  an 
inclusive  and  transparent  manner  with  all  partners  in 
order  to  advance  cooperation  and  mutually  beneficial 
agreements, for the common good of humankind.
The President (spoke in Spanish): We have heard 
the last speaker on this item.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 125.
The meeting rose at 3.30 p.m.
4/4 
18-31786
