United Nations
General Assembly
Seventy-third session
33rd plenary meeting
Monday, 5 November 2018, 10 a.m. 
New York
A/73/PV.33
Official Records
President:
Ms. Espinosa Garcés. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Ecuador)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Bessho (Japan), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 9 and 14 (continued)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
Report of the Economic and Social Council 
(A/73/3)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/73/275)
Integrated and coordinated implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United Nations conferences and summits in the 
economic, social and related fields
The  Acting  President: 
In  connection  with 
agenda  item  9,  I  would  like  to  recall  that,  pursuant 
to  resolution  58/316,  of  1  July  2004,  the  Assembly, 
on  the  recommendation  of  the  General  Committee, 
decided,  at  its  3rd  plenary  meeting  on  21  September, 
to consider agenda item 9 in its entirety in plenary, on 
the understanding that the administrative, programme 
and  budgetary  aspects  should  be  dealt  with  by  the 
Fifth Committee.
At the same meeting, the Assembly took note of the 
clarification that, in implementing resolution 58/316 to 
consider item 9 in its entirety in plenary, the relevant 
parts of chapter I of the report (A/73/3) that are under 
agenda items already allocated to the Main Committees 
will  be  considered  by  the  Committee  concerned  for 
final action by the General Assembly.
In connection with agenda item 14, members will 
recall that, pursuant to resolution 57/270 B, of 23 June 
2003,  the  Assembly  decided  to  consider,  under  the 
item, the chapters of the annual report of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  relevant  to  the  integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits,  including  through  the  participation  of  the 
President of the Council in its discussions.
I now give the floor to the President of the Economic 
and Social Council for the 2018 session, Her Excellency 
Mrs.  Marie  Chatardová,  to  introduce  the  report  of 
the Council.
Mrs.  Chatardová  (Czech  Republic):  I  have  the 
honour of introducing to the General Assembly the 2018 
report of the Economic and Social Council (A/73/3).
In 2018, the Economic and Social Council stepped 
up its focus on delivering the ambitious 2030 Agenda 
for  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Addis  Ababa 
Action  Agenda.  The  various  segments  and  the  High-
level Political Forum on Sustainable Development under 
the auspices of the Council helped us to see clearly that 
we  have  made  some  significant  progress,  yet  we  still 
have a long road to travel in order to realize sustainable 
and  resilient  societies  while  leaving  no  one  behind. 
The Economic and Social Council contributed in many 
ways  to  bringing  us  closer  to  achieving  these  goals. 
Allow me to briefly outline some of the highlights of 
the 2018 session.
Under  the  auspices  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  the  2018  High-level  Political  Forum  allowed 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the translation of speeches 
delivered in other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original languages only. 
They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature of a member 
of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room U-0506 
(verbatimrecords@un.org). Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official 
Document System of the United Nations (http://documents.un.org).
18-36059 (E)
*1836059*

A/73/PV.33 
05/11/2018
us  to  take  a  step  back  and  reflect  on  where  we 
stand  on  the  road  towards  fulfilling  the  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and in which areas we need 
to accelerate progress. The Forum played its role as the 
central  platform  for  follow-up  and  review  of  progress 
of the 2030 Agenda through its theme “Transformation 
towards sustainable and resilient societies” and through 
its  review  of  six  of  the  SDGs:  water  and  sanitation; 
sustainable  and  modern  energy;  cities  and  human 
settlements;  sustainable  consumption  and  production 
patterns; life on land; and global partnership.
Some  46  countries  presented  voluntary  national 
reviews. We broke new ground not only in terms of the 
number of reviews but also in terms of their analytical 
nature and robustness. The voluntary national reviews 
showed that many countries have made great strides in 
aligning  their  policies  with  the  SDGs,  in  mobilizing 
and organizing institutions and in undertaking actions 
to reach the targets. They also provided unique insight 
into the challenges countries face, notably in conducting 
integrated policies or mobilizing financing or data. The 
Forum also broke new ground in terms of the proactive 
engagement of stakeholders in the discussions.
The Development Cooperation Forum allowed us to 
look at the SDGs from the perspective of development 
cooperation.  We  explored  the  role  that  development 
cooperation  can  play  in  helping  to  address  poverty 
or  reverse  negative  trends  in  inequality  or  climate 
change. The Development Cooperation Forum sounded 
a  wake-up  call  —  in  order  to  meet  the  deadlines  and 
expectations set out in the 2030 Agenda, development 
cooperation needs to change more radically and much 
faster.  I  trust  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
will  continue  to  reflect  on  this  transformation  in  the 
coming year.
The  2018  high-level  segment  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council represented the culmination of the 
Council’s  cycle  on  its  main  theme,  “From  global  to 
local: supporting sustainable and resilient societies in 
urban and rural communities”. We championed a new 
approach to the high-level segment. The meeting looked 
to  the  long  term  and  analysed  the  tremendous  future 
impacts that phenomena such as economic, demographic 
and technological change will have on different aspects 
of  society.  We  also  examined  long-term  trends  and 
scenarios  to  offer  evidence-based  projections  for  the 
future achievement of the SDGs. This forward-looking 
approach was endorsed by the General Assembly in its 
recent resolution on the strengthening of the Economic 
and Social Council (resolution 72/305).
The segments and forums, functional commissions 
and expert bodies of the Economic and Social Council 
delivered  a  range  of  integrated  policy  options  and 
recommendations  related  to  the  SDGs.  We  brought 
together the Chairs of all subsidiary bodies to make their 
work  more  coherent  and  supportive  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council and the High-level Political Forum.
The  Committee  for  Development  Policy’s  session 
was  unusual  this  year.  For  the  first  time,  it  took  an 
in-depth  look  at  policies  to  leave  no  one  behind  and 
ensure  integrated  approaches  in  all  countries  having 
conducted voluntary national reviews since the outset 
of  the  High-level  Political  Forum.  It  was  also  able  to 
deliver  good  news  on  the  number  of  least  developed 
countries reaching graduation levels.
The 2018 Economic and Social Council Forum on 
Financing  for  Development  Follow-up  sent  a  message 
of  support  on  the  centrality  of  multilateralism  and 
constructive  engagement  for  financing 
the  2030 
Agenda.  The  outcome  of  the  Forum  agreed  among 
the  participating  Governments  achieved  important 
progress  in  the  areas  of  building  resilience,  adapting 
to digitalization and mainstreaming gender equality, as 
well as in blended finance, innovative debt instruments 
and incentives for the private sector. It also helped to 
build understanding on some issues on which a range of 
views exist. The inaugural SDG Investment Fair, held 
immediately  before  the  Financing  for  Development 
Follow-up Forum, responded to the large and growing 
needs for additional investments in the SDGs, especially 
in the poorest and most vulnerable countries.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  also  convened 
its annual special meeting on international cooperation 
in  tax  matters.  The  special  meeting  served  as  an 
important opportunity to discuss emerging tax policy 
and administration issues, including relevant challenges 
resulting  from  the  digitalization  of  the  economy. 
Overall, the Economic and Social Council showed that, 
together, we can find solutions to keep the 2030 Agenda 
on track towards our shared goals.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  continued 
to  strengthen  its  leadership  role  in  identifying  new 
frontiers  in  sustainable  development  and  promoting 
reflection, open dialogue and innovative and integrated 
thinking.  It  broke  new  ground  in  the  reflection  on 
technologies  and  the  SDGs.  The  joint  meeting  of 
2/4 
18-36059
05/11/2018 
A/73/PV.33
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Second 
Committee of the General Assembly, whose theme was 
“The future of everything — sustainable development 
in  the  age  of  rapid  technological  change”,  was  a 
moment to dive deep into the implications of artificial 
intelligence  and  other  new  technological  trends  that 
are  shaping  our  future.  The  2018  Multi-stakeholder 
Forum on Science, Technology and Innovation for the 
SDGs addressed global trends and cross-cutting issues, 
including the impact of rapid technological change on 
the  achievement  of  the  SDGs;  local  and  indigenous 
knowledge and innovations for the achievement of the 
SDGs;  and  next  steps  for  the  Technology  Facilitation 
Mechanism.  For  its  part,  the  integration  segment 
addressed  the  topic  of  technological  change  from 
the  angle  of  building  innovative  communities  and 
sustainable and resilient societies.
Next,  the  engagement  of  stakeholders  through 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  United 
Nations  development  system  continued  to  intensify. 
The  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as 
a  platform  for  multi-stakeholder  participation 
is 
unrivalled and was highlighted by the granting during 
the  2018  session  of  consultative  status  to  some  433 
non-governmental organizations.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  Youth  Forum 
sent a strong call for engaging young people in building 
sustainable and resilient urban and rural communities. 
We had an unprecedented number of young people and 
Government  ministers,  who  brought  a  unique  energy 
and  enthusiasm  to  the  room.  We  heard  young  people 
talk about the solutions they can bring to the table and 
their desire to be more engaged in the work of the United 
Nations and in the governance of their countries. The 
2018 Partnership Forum demonstrated how the inclusion 
targets  in  the  SDGs  could  be  translated  into  tangible 
business goals and make positive impacts in the lives 
of women, young people and vulnerable populations.
The priority of my presidency was to focus on the 
theme  “Towards  sustainable,  resilient  and  inclusive 
societies through participation of all”. It led to a special 
meeting  of  the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  which  brought  together  a  range  of  actors  to 
highlight  the  benefits  of  participatory  and  inclusive 
approaches  to  implementing  the  2030  Agenda.  The 
meeting culminated an extensive process that engaged 
various  groups  of  actors,  such  as  local  governments, 
businesses,  non-governmental  organizations 
and 
included  a  preparatory  meeting 
academia,  and 
in  Prague.  I  worked  closely  with  major  groups  and 
other  stakeholders  in  organizing  the  session  and  the 
high-level political forum. Each group of stakeholders 
was able to hold side events and identify speakers for 
the forum. Major groups were also able to take charge 
of  organizing  one  session.  Lastly,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  continued  to  support  the  adjustments 
needed  to  enable  the  United  Nations  development 
system  to  achieve  better  results  in  the  changing 
development landscape.
The  2018  operational  activities  for  development 
segment  was  the  first  opportunity  for  Member  States 
to  consider  in  depth  the  proposals  of  the  Secretary-
General to reposition the United Nations development 
system. The deliberations in the Economic and Social 
Council  built  common  ground  for  support  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  reform  proposals  to  reinvigorate 
the  resident  coordinator  system  and  to  put  in  place  a 
better funding architecture that improves the quality of 
funding and accountability.
The  2018  humanitarian  affairs  segment  placed  an 
unprecedented focus on the poorest and most vulnerable. 
It focused on the theme “Restoring humanity, respecting 
human  dignity  and  leaving  no  one  behind:  working 
together  to  reduce  people’s  humanitarian  need,  risk 
and  vulnerability”.  It  shared  experiences,  innovations 
and  best  practices  from  across  regions  and  sectors  to 
strengthen coordination of the humanitarian response.
the 
Caribbean last year, as President I convened a special 
meeting on the theme “Aftermath of recent hurricanes: 
achieving a risk-informed and resilient 2030 Agenda”. 
To  take  stock  of  progress  on  the  actions  contained  in 
my  presidential  statement,  the  Council  is  convening 
a  follow-up  meeting  on  “Pathways  to  resilience  in 
climate-affected SIDS” on 13 November.
the  devastating  hurricanes 
Following 
in 
The  comprehensive  report  presents  all 
those 
items  and  others  in  greater  detail.  In  2019,  the  high-
level political forum will meet not only in July under 
the  auspices  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
but  also  in  September  at  the  summit  level  under  the 
auspices of the General Assembly at its seventy-fourth 
session, where it will review the entire 2030 Agenda. 
In  preparation  for  that  landmark  summit,  I  invite 
Members  to  draw  upon  the  work  of  the  high-level 
political forum under the auspices of the Economic and 
Social Council and the work of the Economic and Social 
18-36059
3/4
A/73/PV.33 
05/11/2018
Council as a whole in support of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development.
The Acting President: May I take it that the General 
Assembly takes note of the report of the Economic and 
Social Council, contained in document A/73/3?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
items 9 and 14.
The meeting rose at 10.25 a.m.
4/4 
18-36059
